Little Masterpieces of
  American Wit and Humor

  Edited by Thomas L. Masson

  VOLUME I

  By

  Washington Irving   Oliver Wendell Holmes
  Benjamin Franklin   "Josh Billings"
  "Mark Twain"

Not only all that is fairly representative of the work of our American humorists, from Washington
Irving to "Mr. Dooley," has been gathered together, but also much that is merely fugitive and
anecdotal. Thus, in many instances literary finish has been ignored in order that certain characteristic
and purely American bits should have their place. The Editor is not unmindful of the danger
of this plan. For where there is such a countless number of witticisms (so-called) as are constantly
coming to the surface, and where so many of them are worthless, it must always take a rare
discrimination to detect the genuine from the false. This difficulty is greatly increased by
the difference of opinion that exists, even among the elect, with regard to the merit of particular
jokes. To paraphrase an old adage, what is one man's laughter may be another man's dirge. The
Editor desires to make it plain, however, that the responsibility in this particular instance
is entirely his own. He has made his selections without consulting any one, knowing that if
a consultation of experts should attempt to decide about the contents of a volume of American
humor, no volume would ever be published.

The reader will doubtless recognize, in this anthology, many old friends. He may also be conscious
of omissions. These omissions are due either to the restrictions of publishers, or the impossibility
of obtaining original copies, or the limited space.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Acknowledgments are made herewith to the following publishers, who have kindly consented to
allow the reproduction of the material designated.

     F. A. STOKES & COMPANY, New York: "A Rhyme for Priscilla,"
     F. D. Sherman; "The Bohemians of Boston," Gelett Burgess; "A Kiss
     in the Rain," "Bessie Brown, M. D.," S. M. Peck.

     DODD, MEAD & COMPANY, New York: Four Extracts, E. W.
     Townsend ("Chimmie Fadden").

     BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY, Indianapolis: "The Elf Child," "A
     Liz-Town Humorist," James Whitcomb Riley.

     LEE & SHEPARD, Boston: "The Meeting of the Clabberhuses,"
     "A Philosopher," "The Ideal Husband to His Wife," "The Prayer of
     Cyrus Brown," "A Modern Martyrdom," S. W. Foss; "After the
     Funeral," "What He Wanted It For," J. M. Bailey.

     BACHELLER, JOHNSON & BACHELLER, New York: "The Composite
     Ghost," Marion Couthouy Smith.

     D. APPLETON & COMPANY, New York: "Illustrated Newspapers,"
     "Tushmaker's Tooth-puller," G. H. Derby ("John Phoenix").

     T. B. PETERSON & COMPANY, Philadelphia: "Hans Breitmann's
     Party," "Ballad," C. G. Leland.

     CENTURY COMPANY, New York: "Miss Malony on the Chinese
     Question," Mary Mapes Dodge; "The Origin of the Banjo," Irwin
     Russell; "The Walloping Window-Blind," Charles E. Carryl; "The
     Patriotic Tourist," "What's in a Name?" "'Tis Ever Thus," R. K.
     Munkittrick.

     FORBES & COMPANY, Chicago: "If I Should Die To-Night,"
     "The Pessimist," Ben King.

     J. S. OGILVIE & COMPANY, New York: Three Short Extracts,
     C. B. Lewis ("Mr. Bowser").

     THE CHELSEA COMPANY, New York: "The Society Reporter's
     Christmas," "The Dying Gag," James L. Ford.

     KEPPLER & SCHWARZMANN, New York: "Love Letters of Smith,"
     H. C. Bunner.

     SMALL, MAYNARD & COMPANY, Boston: "On Gold-Seeking," "On
     Expert Testimony," F. P. Dunne ("Mr. Dooley"); "Tale of the
     Kennebec Mariner," "Grampy Sings a Song," "Cure for Homesickness,"
     Holman F. Day.

     BELFORD, CLARKE & COMPANY, Chicago: "A Fatal Thirst," "On
     Cyclones," Bill Nye.

     DUQUESNE DISTRIBUTING COMPANY, Harmanville, Pennsylvania:
     "In Society," William J. Kountz, Jr. (from the bound edition of
     "Billy Baxter's Letters").

     R. H. RUSSELL, New York: Nonsense Verses--"Impetuous
     Samuel," "Misfortunes Never Come Singly," "Aunt Eliza," "Susan";
     "The City as a Summer Resort," "Avarice and Generosity," "Work and
     Sport," "Home Life of Geniuses," F. P. Dunne ("Mr. Dooley"); "My
     Angeline," Harry B. Smith.

     H. S. STONE & COMPANY, Chicago: "The Preacher Who Flew His
     Kite." "The Fable of the Caddy," "The Two Mandolin Players," George
     Ade.

     AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY, Hartford: "A Pleasure
     Excursion," "An Unmarried Female," Marietta Holley; "Colonel
     Sellers," "Mark Twain."

     G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS, New York: "Living in the Country," "A
     Glass of Water," "A Family Horse," F. S. Cozzens.

     GEORGE DILLINGHAM, New York: "Natral and Unnatral
     Aristocrats," "To Correspondents," "The Bumblebee," "Josh
     Billings"; "Among the Spirits," "The Shakers," "A. W. to His Wife,"
     "Artemus Ward and the Prince of Wales," "A Visit to Brigham Young,"
     "The Tower of London," "One of Mr. Ward's Business Letters," "On
     'Forts,'" Artemus Ward; "At the Musicale," "At the Races," Geo. V.
     Hobart ("John Henry").

     THOMPSON & THOMAS, Chicago: "How to Hunt the Fox," Bill
     Nye.

     LITTLE, BROWN & COMPANY, Boston: "Street Scenes in
     Washington," Louisa May Alcott.

     E. H. BACON & COMPANY, Boston: "A Boston Lullaby," James
     Jeffrey Roche.

     HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY, Boston: "My Aunt," "The
     Wonderful One-hoss Shay," "Foreign Correspondence,"
     "Music-Pounding" (extract), "The Ballad of the Oysterman,"
     "Dislikes" (short extract), "The Height of the Ridiculous," "An
     Aphorism and a Lecture," O. W. Holmes; "The Yankee Recruit," "What
     Mr. Robinson Thinks," "The Courtin'," "A Letter from Mr. Ezekiel
     Bigelow," "Without and Within," J. R. Lowell; "Five Lives," "Eve's
     Daughter," E. R. Sill; "The Owl-Critic," "The Alarmed Skipper,"
     James T. Fields; "My Summer in a Garden," "Plumbers," "How I Killed
     a Bear," C. D. Warner; "Little Breeches," John Hay; "The Stammering
     Wife," "Coquette," "My Familiar," "Early Rising," J. G. Saxe; "The
     Diamond Wedding," E. C. Stedman; "Melons," "Society Upon the
     Stanislaus," "The Heathen Chinee," "To the Pliocene Skull," Bret
     Harte; "The Total Depravity of Inanimate Things," K. K. C. Walker;
     "Palabras Grandiosas," Bayard Taylor; "Mrs. Johnson," William Dean
     Howells; "A Plea for Humor," Agnes Repplier; "The Minister's
     Wooing," Harriet Beecher Stowe.

In addition, the Editor desires to make his personal acknowledgments to the following authors:
F. P. Dunne, Mary Mapes Dodge, Gelett Burgess, R. K. Munkittrick, E. W. Townsend, F. D. Sherman.

For such small paragraphs, anecdotes and witticisms as have been used in these volumes, acknowledgment
is hereby made to the following newspapers and periodicals:

Chicago Record, Boston Globe, Texas Siftings, New Orleans Times Democrat, Providence Journal,
New York Evening Sun, Atlanta Constitution, Macon Telegraph, New Haven Register, Chicago Times,
Analostan Magazine, Harper's Bazaar, Florida Citizen, Saturday Evening Post, Chicago Times
Herald, Washington Post, Cleveland Plain Dealer, New York Tribune, Chicago Tribune, Pittsburg
Bulletin, Philadelphia Ledger, Youth's Companion, Harper's Magazine, Duluth Evening Herald,
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Washington Times, Rochester Budget, Bangor News, Boston
Herald, Pittsburg Dispatch, Christian Advocate, Troy Times, Boston Beacon, New Haven News,
New York Herald, Philadelphia Call, Philadelphia News, Erie Dispatch, Town Topics, Buffalo
Courier, Life, San Francisco Wave, Boston Home Journal, Puck, Washington Hatchet, Detroit Free
Press, Babyhood, Philadelphia Press, Judge, New York Sun, Minneapolis Journal, San Francisco
Argonaut, St. Louis Sunday Globe, Atlanta Constitution, Buffalo Courier, New York Weekly, Starlight
Messenger (St Peter, Minn.).

  CONTENTS

  VOLUME I

                                                                    PAGE

  WASHINGTON IRVING

  Wouter Van Twiller                                                   1
  Wilhelmus Kieft                                                      8
  Peter Stuyvesant                                                    13
  Antony Van Corlear                                                  15
  General Van Poffenburgh                                             18

  BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

  Maxims                                                              21
  Model of a Letter of Recommendation of a
  Person You Are Unacquainted with                                    21
  Epitaph for Himself                                                 22

  WILLIAM ALLEN BUTLER

  Nothing to Wear                                                     24

  HENRY WARD BEECHER

  Deacon Marble                                                       39
  The Deacon's Trout                                                  41
  The Dog Noble and the Empty Hole                                    43

  ALBERT GORTON GREENE

  Old Grimes                                                          45

  OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES

  My Aunt                                                             49
  The Deacon's Masterpiece; or, the Wonderful
  "One-hoss Shay"

       *       *       *       *       *

"A friend of mine," said a citizen, "asked me the other evening to go and call on some friends
of his who had lost the head of the family the day previous. He had been an honest old man,
a laborer with a pick and shovel. While we were with the family an old man entered who had
worked by his side for years. Expressing his sorrow at the loss of his friend, and glancing
about the room, he observed a large floral anchor. Scrutinizing it closely, he turned to the
widow and in a low tone asked, 'Who sent the pick?'" I was a Republican when I stole those spoons."

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

MAXIMS

Never spare the parson's wine, nor the baker's pudding.

A house without woman or firelight is like a body without soul or sprite.

Kings and bears often worry their keepers.

Light purse, heavy heart.

He's a fool that makes his doctor his heir.

To lengthen thy life, lessen thy meals.

He that drinks fast pays slow.

He is ill-clothed who is bare of virtue.

Beware of meat twice boil'd, and an old foe reconcil'd.

The heart of a fool is in his mouth, but the mouth of a wise man is in his heart.

He that is rich need not live sparingly, and he that can live sparingly need not be rich.

He that waits upon fortune is never sure of a dinner.

    MODEL OF A LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION OF A PERSON YOU ARE UNACQUAINTED
    WITH

    PARIS, April 2, 1777.

WHY HE LEFT

Mr. Dickson, a colored barber in a large New England town, was shaving one of his customers,
a respectable citizen, one morning, when a conversation occurred between them respecting Mr.
Dickson's former connection with a colored church in that place:

"I believe you are connected with the church in Elm Street, are you not, Mr. Dickson?" said
the customer.

"No, sah, not at all."

"What! are you not a member of the African church?"

"Not dis year, sah."

"Why did you leave their communion, Mr. Dickson, if I may be permitted to ask?"

"Well, I'll tell you, sah," said Mr. Dickson, stropping a concave razor on the palm of his
hand, "it was just like dis. I jined de church in good fait'; I gave ten dollars toward the
stated gospil de first year, and de church people call me 'Brudder Dickson'; de second year
my business not so good, and I gib only five dollars. That year the people call me 'Mr. Dickson.'
Dis razor hurt you, sah?"

"No, the razor goes tolerably well."

"Well, sah, de third year I feel berry poor; had sickness in my family; I didn't gib noffin'
for preachin'. Well, sah, arter dat dey call me 'dat old nigger Dickson'--and I left 'em."

  The last trip, their goods shipped by the steamer Arago,
  Formed, M'Flimsey declares, the bulk of her cargo,
  Not to mention a quantity kept from the rest,
  Sufficient to fill the largest-sized chest,
  Which did not appear on the ship's manifest,
  But for which the ladies themselves manifested
  Such particular interest, that they invested
  Their own proper persons in layers and rows
  Of muslins, embroideries, worked underclothes,
  Gloves, handkerchiefs, scarfs, and such trifles as those;
  Then, wrapped in great shawls, like Circassian beauties,
  Gave good-by to the ship, and go by to the duties.
  Her relations at home all marveled, no doubt,
  Miss Flora had grown so enormously stout
    For an actual belle and a possible bride;
  But the miracle ceased when she turned inside out,
    And the truth came to light, and the dry-goods besides,
  Which, in spite of Collector and Custom-House sentry,
  Had entered the port without any entry.

  And yet, though scarce three months have passed since the day
  This merchandise went, on twelve carts, up Broadway,
  This same Miss M'Flimsey of Madison Square,
  The last time we met was in utter despair,
  Because she had nothing whatever to wear!

  Nothing to wear! Now, as this is a true ditty,
    I do not assert--this, you know, is between us--
  That she's in a state of absolute nudity,
    Like Powers's Greek Slave or the Medici Venus;
  But I do mean to say, I have heard her declare,
    When at the same moment she had on a dress
    Which cost five hundred dollars, and not a cent less,
    And jewelry worth ten times more, I should guess,
  That she had not a thing in the wide world to wear!

  I should mention just here, that out of Miss Flora's
  Two hundred and fifty or sixty adorers,
  I had just been selected as he who should throw all
  The rest in the shade, by the gracious bestowal
  On myself, after twenty or thirty rejections,
  Of those fossil remains which she called her "affections,"
  And that rather decayed but well-known work of art
  Which Miss Flora persisted in styling her "heart."
  So we were engaged. Our troth had been plighted,
  Not by moonbeam or starbeam, by fountain or grove,
  But in a front parlor, most brilliantly lighted,
  Beneath the gas-fixtures, we whispered our love.
  Without any romance, or raptures, or sighs,
  Without any tears in Miss Flora's blue eyes,
  Or blushes, or transports, or such silly actions,
  It was one of the quietest business transactions,
  With a very small sprinkling of sentiment, if any,
  And a very large diamond imported by Tiffany.
  On her virginal lips, while I printed a kiss,
  She exclaimed, as a sort of parenthesis,
  And by way of putting me quite at my ease,
  "You know I'm to polka as much as I please,
  And flirt when I like--now, stop, don't you speak--
  And you must not come here more than twice in the week,
  Or talk to me either at party or ball,
  But always be ready to come when I call;
  So don't prose to me about duty and stuff,
  If we don't break this off, there will be time enough
  For that sort of thing; but the bargain must be
  That, as long as I choose, I am perfectly free--
  For this is a kind of engagement, you see,
  Which is binding on you, but not binding on me."

  Well, having thus wooed Miss M'Flimsey and gained her,
  With the silks, crinolines, and hoops that contained her,
  I had, as I thought, a contingent remainder
  At least in the property, and the best right
  To appear as its escort by day and by night;
  And it being the week of the Stuckups' grand ball--
    Their cards had been out a fortnight or so,
    And set all the Avenue on the tiptoe--
  I considered it only my duty to call,
    And see if Miss Flora intended to go.
  I found her--as ladies are apt to be found,
  When the time intervening between the first sound
  Of the bell and the visitor's entry is shorter
  Than usual--I found; I won't say--I caught her,
  Intent on the pier-glass, undoubtedly meaning
  To see if perhaps it didn't need cleaning.
  She turned as I entered--"Why, Harry, you sinner,
  I thought that you went to the Flashers' to dinner!"
  "So I did," I replied; "the dinner is swallowed,
    And digested, I trust, for 'tis now nine and more,
  So, being relieved from that duty, I followed
    Inclination, which led me, you see, to your door;
  And now will your ladyship so condescend
  As just to inform me if you intend
  Your beauty, and graces, and presence to lend
  (All of which, when I own, I hope no one will borrow)
  To the Stuckups', whose party, you know, is to-morrow?"
  The fair Flora looked up, with a pitiful air,
  And answered quite promptly, "Why, Harry, mon cher,
  I should like above all things to go with you there,
  But really and truly--I've nothing to wear."
  "Nothing to wear! Go just as you are;
  Wear the dress you have on, and you'll be by far,
  I engage, the most bright and particular star
    On the Stuckup horizon----" I stopped, for her eye,
  Notwithstanding this delicate onset of flattery,
  Opened on me at once a most terrible battery
    Of scorn and amazement. She made no reply,
  But gave a slight turn to the end of her nose
    (That pure Grecian feature), as much as to say,
  "How absurd that any sane man should suppose
  That a lady would go to a ball in the clothes,
    No matter how fine, that she wears every day!"
  So I ventured again: "Wear your crimson brocade;"
  (Second turn up of nose)--"That's too dark by a shade."
  "Your blue silk"--"That's too heavy." "Your pink"--"That's too light."
  "Wear tulle over satin"--"I can't endure white."
  "Your rose-colored, then, the best of the batch"--
  "I haven't a thread of point-lace to match."
  "Your brown moire antique"--"Yes, and look like a Quaker."
  "The pearl-colored"--"I would, but that plaguy dressmaker
  Has had it a week." "Then that exquisite lilac,
  In which you would melt the heart of a Shylock;"
  (Here the nose took again the same elevation)--
  "I wouldn't wear that for the whole of creation."
    "Why not? It's my fancy, there's nothing could strike it
  As more comme it faut"--"Yes, but, dear me, that lean
    Sophronia Stuckup has got one just like it,
  And I won't appear dressed like a chit of sixteen."
  "Then that splendid purple, the sweet Mazarine;
  That superb point d'aiguille, that imperial green,
  That zephyr-like tarletan, that rich grenadine"--
  "Not one of all which is fit to be seen,"
  Said the lady, becoming excited and flushed.
  "Then wear," I exclaimed, in a tone which quite crushed
  Opposition, "that gorgeous toilette which you sported
  In Paris last spring, at the grand presentation,
  When you quite turned the head of the head of the nation,
    And by all the grand court were so very much courted."
    The end of the nose was portentously tipped up
  And both the bright eyes shot forth indignation,
  As she burst upon me with the fierce exclamation,
  "I have worn it three times, at the least calculation,
    And that and most of my dresses are ripped up!"
  Here I ripped out something, perhaps rather rash,
    Quite innocent, though; but to use an expression
  More striking than classic, it "settled my hash,"
    And proved very soon the last act of our session.
  "Fiddlesticks, is it, sir? I wonder the ceiling
  Doesn't fall down and crush you--you men have no feeling;
  You selfish, unnatural, illiberal creatures,
  Who set yourselves up as patterns and preachers,
  Your silly pretense--why, what a mere guess it is!
  Pray, what do you know of a woman's necessities?
  I have told you and shown you I've nothing to wear,
  And it's perfectly plain you not only don't care,
  But you do not believe me" (here the nose went still higher).
  "I suppose, if you dared, you would call me a liar.
  Our engagement is ended, sir--yes, on the spot;
  You're a brute, and a monster, and--I don't know what."
  I mildly suggested the words Hottentot,
  Pickpocket, and cannibal, Tartar, and thief,
  As gentle expletives which might give relief;
  But this only proved as a spark to the powder,
  And the storm I had raised came faster and louder;
  It blew and it rained, thundered, lightened and hailed
  Interjections, verbs, pronouns, till language quite failed
  To express the abusive, and then its arrears
  Were brought up all at once by a torrent of tears,
  And my last faint, despairing attempt at an obs-
  Ervation was lost in a tempest of sobs.

  Well, I felt for the lady, and felt for my hat, too,
  Improvised on the crown of the latter a tattoo,
  In lieu of expressing the feelings which lay
  Quite too deep for words, as Wordsworth would say;
  Then, without going through the form of a bow,
  Found myself in the entry--I hardly know how,
  On doorstep and sidewalk, past lamp-post and square,
  At home and upstairs, in my own easy-chair;
    Poked my feet into slippers, my fire into blaze,
  And said to myself, as I lit my cigar,
  "Supposing a man had the wealth of the Czar
    Of the Russias to boot, for the rest of his days,
  On the whole, do you think he would have much to spare,
  If he married a woman with nothing to wear?"

  Since that night, taking pains that it should not be bruited
  Abroad in society, I've instituted
  A course of inquiry, extensive and thorough,
  On this vital subject, and find, to my horror,
  That the fair Flora's case is by no means surprising,
    But that there exists the greatest distress
  In our female community, solely arising
    From this unsupplied destitution of dress,
  Whose unfortunate victims are filling the air
  With the pitiful wail of "Nothing to wear."

  Researches in some of the "Upper Ten" districts
  Reveal the most painful and startling statistics,
  Of which let me mention only a few:
  In one single house on the Fifth Avenue,
  Three young ladies were found, all below twenty-two,
  Who have been three whole weeks without anything new
  In the way of flounced silks, and thus left in the lurch,
  Are unable to go to ball, concert or church.
  In another large mansion near the same place
  Was found a deplorable, heartrending case
  Of entire destitution of Brussels point-lace.
  In a neighboring block there was found, in three calls,
  Total want, long continued, of camel's-hair shawls;
  And a suffering family, whose case exhibits
  The most pressing need of real ermine tippets;
  One deserving young lady almost unable
  To survive for the want of a new Russian sable;
  Still another, whose tortures have been most terrific
  Ever since the sad loss of the steamer Pacific,
  In which were engulfed, not friend or relation
  (For whose fate she, perhaps, might have found consolation,
  Or borne it, at least, with serene resignation),
  But the choicest assortment of French sleeves and collars
  Ever sent out from Paris, worth thousands of dollars,
  And all as to style most recherché and rare,
  The want of which leaves her with nothing to wear,
  And renders her life so drear and dyspeptic
  That she's quite a recluse, and almost a skeptic,
  For she touchingly says that this sort of grief
  Cannot find in Religion the slightest relief,
  And Philosophy has not a maxim to spare
  For the victims of such overwhelming despair.
  But the saddest, by far, of all these sad features,
  Is the cruelty practised upon the poor creatures
  By husbands and fathers, real Bluebeards and Timons,
  Who resist the most touching appeals made for diamonds
  By their wives and their daughters, and leave them for days
  Unsupplied with new jewelry, fans or bouquets,
  Even laugh at their miseries whenever they have a chance,
  And deride their demands as useless extravagance.
  One case of a bride was brought to my view,
  Too sad for belief, but alas! 'twas too true,
  Whose husband refused, as savage as Charon,
  To permit her to take more than ten trunks to Sharon.
  The consequence was, that when she got there,
  At the end of three weeks she had nothing to wear;
  And when she proposed to finish the season
  At Newport, the monster refused, out and out,
  For his infamous conduct alleging no reason,
  Except that the waters were good for his gout;
  Such treatment as this was too shocking, of course,
  And proceedings are now going on for divorce.

  But why harrow the feelings by lifting the curtain
  From these scenes of woe? Enough, it is certain,
  Has here been disclosed to stir up the pity
  Of every benevolent heart in the city,
  And spur up humanity into a canter
  To rush and relieve these sad cases instanter.
  Won't somebody, moved by this touching description,
  Come forward to-morrow and head a subscription?
  Won't some kind philanthropist, seeing that aid is
  So needed at once by these indigent ladies,
  Take charge of the matter? Or won't Peter Cooper
  The corner-stone lay of some new splendid super-
  Structure, like that which to-day links his name
  In the Union unending of Honor and Fame,
  And found a new charity just for the care
  Of these unhappy women with nothing to wear,
  Which, in view of the cash which would daily be claimed,
  The Laying-out Hospital well might be named?
  Won't Stewart, or some of our dry-goods importers,
  Take a contract for clothing our wives and our daughters?
  Or, to furnish the cash to supply these distresses,
  And life's pathway strew with shawls, collars and dresses,
  Ere the want of them makes it much rougher and thornier,
  Won't some one discover a new California?

HENRY WARD BEECHER

DEACON MARBLE

How they ever made a deacon out of Jerry Marble I never could imagine! His was the kindest
heart that ever bubbled and ran over. He was elastic, tough, incessantly active, and a prodigious
worker. He seemed never to tire, but after the longest day's toil, he sprang up the moment
he had done with work, as if he were a fine steel spring. A few hours' sleep sufficed him,
and he saw the morning stars the year round. His weazened face was leather color, but forever
dimpling and changing to keep some sort of congruity between itself and his eyes, that winked
and blinked and spilled over with merry good nature. He always seemed afflicted when obliged
to be sober. He had been known to laugh in meeting on several occasions, although he ran his
face behind his handkerchief, and coughed, as if that was the matter, yet nobody believed it.
Once, in a hot summer day, he saw Deacon Trowbridge, a sober and fat man, of great sobriety,
gradually ascending from the bodily state into that spiritual condition called sleep. He was
blameless of the act. He had struggled against the temptation with the whole virtue of a deacon.
He had eaten two or three heads of fennel in vain, and a piece of orange peel. He had stirred
himself up, and fixed his eyes on the minister with intense firmness, only to have them grow
gradually narrower and milder. If he held his head up firmly, it would with a sudden lapse
fall away over backward. If he leaned it a little forward, it would drop suddenly into his
bosom. At each nod, recovering himself, he would nod again, with his eyes wide open, to impress
upon the boys that he did it on purpose both times.

In what other painful event of life has a good man so little sympathy as when overcome with
sleep in meeting time? Against the insidious seduction he arrays every conceivable resistance.
He stands up awhile; he pinches himself, or pricks himself with pins. He looks up helplessly
to the pulpit as if some succor might come thence. He crosses his legs uncomfortably, and attempts
to recite the catechism or the multiplication table. He seizes a languid fan, which treacherously
leaves him in a calm. He tries to reason, to notice the phenomena. Oh, that one could carry
his pew to bed with him! What tossing wakefulness there! what fiery chase after somnolency!
In his lawful bed a man cannot sleep, and in his pew he cannot keep awake! Happy man who does
not sleep in church! Deacon Trowbridge was not that man. Deacon Marble was!

Deacon Marble witnessed the conflict we have sketched above, and when good Mr. Trowbridge gave
his next lurch, recovering himself with a snort, and then drew out a red handkerchief and blew
his nose with a loud imitation, as if to let the boys know that he had not been asleep, poor
Deacon Marble was brought to a sore strait. But I have reason to think that he would have weathered
the stress if it had not been for a sweet-faced little boy in the front of the gallery. The
lad had been innocently watching the same scene, and at its climax laughed out loud, with a
frank and musical explosion, and then suddenly disappeared backward into his mother's lap.
That laugh was just too much, and Deacon Marble could no more help laughing than could Deacon
Trowbridge help sleeping. Nor could he conceal it. Though he coughed and put up his handkerchief
and hemmed--it was a laugh--Deacon!--and every boy in the house knew it, and liked you better
for it--so inexperienced were they.--Norwood.

THE DOG NOBLE AND THE EMPTY HOLE

The first summer which we spent in Lenox we had along a very intelligent dog, named Noble.
He was learned in many things, and by his dog-lore excited the undying admiration of all the
children. But there were some things which Noble could never learn. Having on one occasion
seen a red squirrel run into a hole in a stone wall, he could not be persuaded that he was
not there forevermore.

Several red squirrels lived close to the house, and had become familiar, but not tame. They
kept up a regular romp with Noble. They would come down from the maple trees with provoking
coolness; they would run along the fence almost within reach; they would cock their tails and
sail across the road to the barn; and yet there was such a well-timed calculation under all
this apparent rashness, that Noble invariably arrived at the critical spot just as the squirrel
left it.

On one occasion Noble was so close upon his red-backed friend that, unable to get up the maple
tree, the squirrel dodged into a hole in the wall, ran through the chinks, emerged at a little
distance, and sprang into the tree. The intense enthusiasm of the dog at that hole can hardly
be described. He filled it full of barking. He pawed and scratched as if undermining a bastion.
Standing off at a little distance, he would pierce the hole with a gaze as intense and fixed
as if he were trying magnetism on it. Then, with tail extended, and every hair thereon electrified,
he would rush at the empty hole with a prodigious onslaught.

This imaginary squirrel haunted Noble night and day. The very squirrel himself would run up
before his face into the tree, and, crouched in a crotch, would sit silently watching the whole
process of bombarding the empty hole, with great sobriety and relish. But Noble would allow
of no doubts. His conviction that that hole had a squirrel in it continued unshaken for six
weeks. When all other occupations failed, this hole remained to him. When there were no more
chickens to harry, no pigs to bite, no cattle to chase, no children to romp with, no expeditions
to make with the grown folks, and when he had slept all that his dogskin would hold, he would
walk out of the yard, yawn and stretch himself, and then look wistfully at the hole, as if
thinking to himself, "Well, as there is nothing else to do, I may as well try that hole again!"--Eyes
and Ears.

       *       *       *       *       *

N. P. Willis was usually the life of the company he happened to be in. His repartee at Mrs.
Gales's dinner in Washington is famous. Mrs. Gales wrote on a card to her niece, at the other
end of the table: "Don't flirt so with Nat Willis." She was herself talking vivaciously to
a Mr. Campbell. Willis wrote the niece's reply:

  "Dear aunt, don't attempt my young feelings to trammel.
  Nor strain at a Nat while you swallow a Campbell."

OLD GRIMES

  Old Grimes is dead; that good old man
    We never shall see more:
  He used to wear a long, black coat,
    All button'd down before.

  His heart was open as the day,
    His feelings all were true:
  His hair was some inclined to gray--
    He wore it in a queue.

  Whene'er he heard the voice of pain,
    His breast with pity burn'd:
  The large, round head upon his cane
    From ivory was turn'd.

  Kind words he ever had for all;
    He knew no base design:
  His eyes were dark and rather small,
    His nose was aquiline.

  He lived at peace with all mankind,
    In friendship he was true:
  His coat had pocket-holes behind,
    His pantaloons were blue.

  Unharm'd, the sin which earth pollutes
    He pass'd securely o'er,
  And never wore a pair of boots
    For thirty years or more.

  But good old Grimes is now at rest,
    Nor fears misfortune's frown:
  He wore a double-breasted vest--
    The stripes ran up and down.
    And changed them every day.

  His knowledge, hid from public gaze,
    He did not bring to view,
  Nor made a noise, town-meeting days,
    As many people do.

  His worldly goods he never threw
    In trust to fortune's chances,
  But lived (as all his brothers do)
    In easy circumstances.

  Thus undisturb'd by anxious cares.
    His peaceful moments ran;
  And everybody said he was
    A fine old gentleman.

ALBERT GORTON GREENE.

IDENTIFIED

Nathaniel Hawthorne was a kind-hearted man as well as a great novelist. While he was consul
at Liverpool a young Yankee walked into his office. The boy had left home to seek his fortune,
but evidently hadn't found it yet, although he had crossed the sea in his search. Homesick,
friendless, nearly penniless, he wanted a passage home. The clerk said Mr. Hawthorne could
not be seen, and intimated that the boy was not American, but was trying to steal a passage.
The boy stuck to his point, and the clerk at last went to the little room and said to Mr. Hawthorne:
"Here's a boy who insists upon seeing you. He says he is an American, but I know he isn't."
Hawthorne came out of the room and looked keenly at the eager, ruddy face of the boy. "You
want a passage to America?"

"Yes, sir."

"And you say you're an American?"

"Yes, sir."

"From what part of America?"

"United States, sir."

"What State?"

"New Hampshire, sir."

"Town?"

"Exeter, sir."

Hawthorne looked at him for a minute before asking him the next question. "Who sold the best
apples in your town?"

"Skim-milk Folsom, sir," said the boy, with glistening eye, as the old familiar by-word brought
up the dear old scenes of home.

"It's all right," said Hawthorne to the clerk; "give him a passage."

ONE BETTER

Long after the victories of Washington over the French and English had made his name familiar
to all Europe, Doctor Franklin chanced to dine with the English and French Ambassadors, when,
as nearly as the precise words can be recollected, the following toasts were drunk:

"England'--The Sun, whose bright beams enlighten and fructify the remotest corners of the earth."

  OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.

N. P. WILLIS

MISS ALBINA McLUSH

I have a passion for fat women. If there is anything I hate in life, it is what dainty people
call a spirituelle. Motion--rapid motion--a smart, quick, squirrel-like step, a pert, voluble
tone--in short, a lively girl--is my exquisite horror! I would as lief have a diable petit
dancing his infernal hornpipe on my cerebellum as to be in the room with one. I have tried
before now to school myself into liking these parched peas of humanity. I have followed them
with my eyes, and attended to their rattle till I was as crazy as a fly in a drum. I have danced
with them, and romped with them in the country, and periled the salvation of my "white tights"
by sitting near them at supper. I swear off from this moment. I do. I won't--no--hang me if
ever I show another small, lively, spry woman a civility.

Albina McLush is divine. She is like the description of the Persian beauty by Hafiz: "Her heart
is full of passion and her eyes are full of sleep." She is the sister of Lurly McLush, my old
college chum, who, as early as his sophomore year, was chosen president of the Dolce far niente
Society--no member of which was ever known to be surprised at anything--(the college law of
rising before breakfast excepted). Lurly introduced me to his sister one day, as he was lying
upon a heap of turnips, leaning on his elbow with his head in his hand, in a green lane in
the suburbs. He had driven over a stump, and been tossed out of his gig, and I came up just
as he was wondering how in the D----l's name he got there! Albina sat quietly in the gig, and
when I was presented, requested me, with a delicious drawl, to say nothing about the adventure--it
would be so troublesome to relate it to everybody! I loved her from that moment. Miss McLush
was tall, and her shape, of its kind, was perfect. It was not a fleshy one exactly, but she
was large and full. Her skin was clear, fine-grained and transparent; her temples and forehead
perfectly rounded and polished, and her lips and chin swelling into a ripe and tempting pout,
like the cleft of a bursted apricot. And then her eyes--large, liquid and sleepy--they languished
beneath their long black fringes as if they had no business with daylight--like two magnificent
dreams, surprised in their jet embryos by some bird-nesting cherub. Oh! it was lovely to look
into them!

She sat, usually, upon a fauteuil, with her large, full arm embedded in the cushion, sometimes
for hours without stirring. I have seen the wind lift the masses of dark hair from her shoulders
when it seemed like the coming to life of a marble Hebe--she had been motionless so long. She
was a model for a goddess of sleep as she sat with her eyes half closed, lifting up their superb
lids slowly as you spoke to her, and dropping them again with the deliberate motion of a cloud,
when she had murmured out her syllable of assent. Her figure, in a sitting posture, presented
a gentle declivity from the curve of her neck to the instep of the small round foot lying on
its side upon the ottoman. I remember a fellow's bringing her a plate of fruit one evening.
He was one of your lively men--a horrid monster, all right angles and activity. Having never
been accustomed to hold her own plate, she had not well extricated her whole fingers from her
handkerchief before he set it down in her lap. As it began to slide slowly toward her feet,
her hand relapsed into the muslin folds, and she fixed her eye upon it with a kind of indolent
surprise, drooping her lids gradually till, as the fruit scattered over the ottoman, they closed
entirely, and a liquid jet line was alone visible through the heavy lashes. There was an imperial
indifference in it worthy of Juno.

Miss McLush rarely walks. When she does, it is with the deliberate majesty of a Dido. Her small,
plump feet melt to the ground like snowflakes; and her figure sways to the indolent motion
of her limbs with a glorious grace and yieldingness quite indescribable. She was idling slowly
up the Mall one evening just at twilight, with a servant at a short distance behind her, who,
to while away the time between his steps, was employing himself in throwing stones at the cows
feeding upon the Common. A gentleman, with a natural admiration for her splendid person, addressed
her. He might have done a more eccentric thing. Without troubling herself to look at him, she
turned to her servant and requested him, with a yawn of desperate ennui, to knock that fellow
down! John obeyed his orders; and, as his mistress resumed her lounge, picked up a new handful
of pebbles, and tossing one at the nearest cow, loitered lazily after.

Such supreme indolence was irresistible. I gave in--I--who never before could summon energy
to sigh--I--to whom a declaration was but a synonym for perspiration--I--who had only thought
of love as a nervous complaint, and of women but to pray for a good deliverance--I--yes--I--knocked
under. Albina McLush! Thou wert too exquisitely lazy. Human sensibilities cannot hold out forever.

I found her one morning sipping her coffee at twelve, with her eyes wide open. She was just
from the bath, and her complexion had a soft, dewy transparency, like the cheek of Venus rising
from the sea. It was the hour, Lurly had told me, when she would be at the trouble of thinking.
She put away with her dimpled forefinger, as I entered, a cluster of rich curls that had fallen
over her face, and nodded to me like a water-lily swaying to the wind when its cup is full of rain.

"Lady Albina," said I, in my softest tone, "how are you?"

"Bettina," said she, addressing her maid in a voice as clouded and rich as the south wind on
an Æolian, "how am I to-day?"

The conversation fell into short sentences. The dialogue became a monologue. I entered upon
my declaration. With the assistance of Bettina, who supplied her mistress with cologne, I kept
her attention alive through the incipient circumstances. Symptoms were soon told. I came to
the avowal. Her hand lay reposing on the arm of the sofa, half buried in a muslin foulard.
I took it up and pressed the cool soft fingers to my lips--unforbidden. I rose and looked into
her eyes for confirmation. Delicious creature! she was asleep!

I never have had courage to renew the subject. Miss McLush seems to have forgotten it altogether.
Upon reflection, too, I'm convinced she would not survive the excitement of the ceremony--unless,
indeed, she should sleep between the responses and the prayer. I am still devoted, however,
and if there should come a war or an earthquake, or if the millennium should commence, as is
expected in 18----, or if anything happens that can keep her waking so long, I shall deliver
a declaration, abbreviated for me by a scholar-friend of mine, which, he warrants, may be articulated
in fifteen minutes--without fatigue.

A SMACK IN SCHOOL

  A district school, not far away,
  'Mid Berkshire's hills, one winter's day,
  Was humming with its wonted noise
  Of threescore mingled girls and boys;
  Some few upon their tasks intent,
  But more on furtive mischief bent.
  The while the master's downward look
  Was fastened on a copy-book;
  When suddenly, behind his back,
  Rose sharp and clear a rousing smack!
  As 'twere a battery of bliss
  Let off in one tremendous kiss!
  "What's that?" the startled master cries;
  "That, thir," a little imp replies,
  "Wath William Willith, if you pleathe----
  I thaw him kith Thuthanna Peathe!"
  With frown to make a statue thrill,
  The master thundered, "Hither, Will!"
  Like wretch o'ertaken in his track,
  With stolen chattels on his back,
  Will hung his head in fear and shame,
  And to the awful presence came----
  A great, green, bashful simpleton,
  The butt of all good-natured fun.
  With smile suppressed, and birch upraised,
  The thunderer faltered--"I'm amazed
  That you, my biggest pupil, should
  Be guilty of an act so rude!
  Before the whole set school to boot----
  What evil genius put you to't?"
  "'Twas she herself, sir," sobbed the lad;
  "I did not mean to be so bad;
  But when Susannah shook her curls,
  And whispered, I was 'fraid of girls
  And dursn't kiss a baby's doll,
  I couldn't stand it, sir, at all,
  But up and kissed her on the spot!
  I know--boo--hoo--I ought to not,
  But, somehow, from her looks--boo--hoo----
  I thought she kind o' wished me to!"

  WILLIAM PITT PALMER.

A RENDITION

Two old British sailors were talking over their shore experience. One had been to a cathedral
and had heard some very fine music, and was descanting particularly upon an anthem which gave
him much pleasure. His shipmate listened for awhile, and then said:

"I say, Bill, what's a hanthem?"

"What," replied Bill, "do you mean to say you don't know what a hanthem is?"

"Not me."

"Well, then, I'll tell yer. If I was to tell yer, 'Ere, Bill, give me that 'andspike,' that
wouldn't be a hanthem;' but was I to say, 'Bill, Bill, giv, giv, give me, give me that, Bill,
give me, give me that hand, handspike, hand, handspike, spike, spike, spike, ah-men, ahmen.
Bill, givemethat-handspike, spike, ahmen!' why, that would be a hanthem."

B. P. SHILLABER ("Mrs. Partington")

FANCY DISEASES

"Diseases is very various," said Mrs. Partington, as she returned from a street-door conversation
with Doctor Bolus. "The Doctor tells me that poor old Mrs. Haze has got two buckles on her
lungs! It is dreadful to think of, I declare. The diseases is so various! One way we hear of
people's dying of hermitage of the lungs; another way, of the brown creatures; here they tell
us of the elementary canal being out of order, and there about tonsors of the throat; here
we hear of neurology in the head, there, of an embargo; one side of us we hear of men being
killed by getting a pound of tough beef in the sarcofagus, and there another kills himself
by discovering his jocular vein. Things change so that I declare I don't know how to subscribe
for any diseases nowadays. New names and new nostrils takes the place of the old, and I might
as well throw my old herb-bag away."

Fifteen minutes afterward Isaac had that herb-bag for a target, and broke three squares of
glass in the cellar window in trying to hit it, before the old lady knew what he was about.
She didn't mean exactly what she said.

BAILED OUT

"So, our neighbour, Mr. Guzzle, has been arranged at the bar for drunkardice," said Mrs. Partington;
and she sighed as she thought of his wife and children at home, with the cold weather close
at hand, and the searching winds intruding through the chinks in the windows, and waving the
tattered curtain like a banner, where the little ones stood shivering by the faint embers.
"God forgive him, and pity them!" said she, in a tone of voice tremulous with emotion.

"But he was bailed out," said Ike, who had devoured the residue of the paragraph, and laid
the paper in a pan of liquid custard that the dame was preparing for Thanksgiving, and sat
swinging the oven door to and fro as if to fan the fire that crackled and blazed within.

"Bailed out, was he?" said she; "well, I should think it would have been cheaper to have pumped
him out, for, when our cellar was filled, arter the city fathers had degraded the street, we
had to have it pumped out, though there wasn't half so much in it as he has swilled down."

She paused and reached up on the high shelves of the closet for her pie plates, while Ike busied
himself in tasting the various preparations. The dame thought that was the smallest quart of
sweet cider she had ever seen.

SEEKING A COMET

It was with an anxious feeling that Mrs. Partington, having smoked her specs, directed her
gaze toward the western sky, in quest of the tailless comet of 1850.

"I can't see it," said she; and a shade of vexation was perceptible in the tone of her voice.
"I don't think much of this explanatory system," continued she, "that they praise so, where
the stars are mixed up so that I can't tell Jew Peter from Satan, nor the consternation of
the Great Bear from the man in the moon. 'Tis all dark to me. I don't believe there is any
comet at all. Who ever heard of a comet without a tail, I should like to know? It isn't natural;
but the printers will make a tale for it fast enough, for they are always getting up comical
stories."

With a complaint about the falling dew, and a slight murmur of disappointment, the dame disappeared
behind a deal door like the moon behind a cloud.

GOING TO CALIFORNIA

"Dear me!" exclaimed Mrs. Partington sorrowfully, "how much a man will bear, and how far he
will go, to get the soddered dross, as Parson Martin called it when he refused the beggar a
sixpence for fear it might lead him into extravagance! Everybody is going to California and
Chagrin arter gold. Cousin Jones and the three Smiths have gone; and Mr. Chip, the carpenter,
has left his wife and seven children and a blessed old mother-in-law, to seek his fortin, too.
This is the strangest yet, and I don't see how he could have done it; it looks so ongrateful
to treat Heaven's blessings so lightly. But there, we are told that the love of money is the
root of all evil, and how true it is! for they are now rooting arter it, like pigs arter ground-nuts.
Why, it is a perfect money mania among everybody!"

And she shook her head doubtingly, as she pensively watched a small mug of cider, with an apple
in it, simmering by the winter fire. She was somewhat fond of a drink made in this way.

MRS. PARTINGTON IN COURT

"I took my knitting-work and went up into the gallery," said Mrs. Partington, the day after
visiting one of the city courts; "I went up into the gallery, and after I had adjusted my specs,
I looked down into the room, but I couldn't see any courting going on. An old gentleman seemed
to be asking a good many impertinent questions--just like some old folks--and people were sitting
around making minutes of the conversation. I don't see how they made out what was said, for
they all told different stories. How much easier it would be to get along if they were all
made to tell the same story! What a sight of trouble it would save the lawyers! The case, as
they call it, was given to the jury, but I couldn't see it, and a gentleman with a long pole
was made to swear that he'd keep an eye on 'em, and see that they didn't run away with it.
Bimeby in they came again, and they said somebody was guilty of something, who had just said
he was innocent, and didn't know nothing about it no more than the little baby that had never
subsistence. I come away soon afterward; but I couldn't help thinking how trying it must be
to sit there all day, shut out from the blessed air!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Apropos of Superintendent Andrews's reported objection to the singing of the "Recessional"
in the Chicago public schools on the ground that the atheists might be offended, the Chicago
Post says:

For the benefit of our skittish friends, the atheists, and in order not to deprive the public-school
children of the literary beauties of certain poems that may be classed by Doctor Andrews as
"hymns," we venture to suggest this compromise, taking a few lines in illustration from our
National anthem:

    "Our fathers' God--assuming purely for the
    sake of argument that there is a God--to Thee,
    Author of liberty--with apologies to our friends,
    the atheists--

    To Thee I sing--but we needn't mean it, you
    know. That's all I say.

       *       *       *       *       *

A certain learned professor in New York has a wife and family, but, professor-like, his thoughts
are always with his books.

One evening his wife, who had been out for some hours, returned to find the house remarkably
quiet. She had left the children playing about, but now they were nowhere to be seen.

She demanded to be told what had become of them, and the professor explained that, as they
had made a good deal of noise, he had put them to bed without waiting for her or calling a maid.

"I hope they gave you no trouble," she said.

"No," replied the professor, "with the exception of the one in the cot here. He objected a
good deal to my undressing him and putting him to bed."

The wife went to inspect the cot.

"Why," she exclaimed, "that's little Johnny Green, from next door."

FIVE LIVES

  Five mites of monads dwelt in a round drop
  That twinkled on a leaf by a pool in the sun.
  To the naked eye they lived invisible;
  Specks, for a world of whom the empty shell
  Of a mustard-seed had been a hollow sky.

  One was a meditative monad, called a sage;
  And, shrinking all his mind within, he thought:
  "Tradition, handed down for hours and hours,
  Tells that our globe, this quivering crystal world,
  Is slowly dying. What if, seconds hence
  When I am very old, yon shimmering doom
  Comes drawing down and down, till all things end?"
  Then with a wizen smirk he proudly felt
  No other mote of God had ever gained
  Such giant grasp of universal truth.

  One was a transcendental monad; thin
  And long and slim of mind; and thus he mused:
  "Oh, vast, unfathomable monad-souls!
  Made in the image"--a hoarse frog croaks from the pool,
  "Hark! 'twas some god, voicing his glorious thought
  In thunder music. Yea, we hear their voice,
  And we may guess their minds from ours, their work.
  Some taste they have like ours, some tendency
  To wriggle about, and munch a trace of scum."
  He floated up on a pin-point bubble of gas
  That burst, pricked by the air, and he was gone.

  One was a barren-minded monad, called
  A positivist; and he knew positively;
  "There was no world beyond this certain drop.
  Prove me another! Let the dreamers dream
  Of their faint gleams, and noises from without,
  And higher and lower; life is life enough."
  Then swaggering half a hair's breadth hungrily,
  He seized upon an atom of bug, and fed.

  One was a tattered monad, called a poet;
  And with a shrill voice ecstatic thus he sang:
  "Oh, little female monad's lips!
  Oh, little female monad's eyes!
  Ah, the little, little, female, female monad!"
  The last was a strong-minded monadess,
  Who dashed amid the infusoria,
  Danced high and low, and wildly spun and dove,
  Till the dizzy others held their breath to see.

  But while they led their wondrous little lives
  Æonian moments had gone wheeling by,
  The burning drop had shrunk with fearful speed:
  A glistening film--'twas gone; the leaf was dry.
  The little ghost of an inaudible squeak
  Was lost to the frog that goggled from his stone;
  Who, at the huge, slow tread of a thoughtful ox
  Coming to drink, stirred sideways fatly, plunged,
  Launched backward twice, and all the pool was still.

  EDWARD ROWLAND SILL.

A CAUSE FOR THANKS

A country parson, in encountering a storm the past season in the voyage across the Atlantic,
was reminded of the following: A clergyman was so unfortunate as to be caught in a severe gale
in the voyage out. The water was exceedingly rough, and the ship persistently buried her nose
in the sea. The rolling was constant, and at last the good man got thoroughly frightened. He
believed they were destined for a watery grave. He asked the captain if he could not have prayers.
The captain took him by the arm and led him down to the forecastle, where the tars were singing
and swearing. "There," said he, "when you hear them swearing, you may know there is no danger."
He went back feeling better, but the storm increased his alarm. Disconsolate and unassisted,
he managed to stagger to the forecastle again. The ancient mariners were swearing as ever.
"Mary," he said to his sympathetic wife, as he crawled into his berth after tacking across
a wet deck, "Mary, thank God they're swearing yet."

       *       *       *       *       *

Artemus Ward, when in London, gave a children's party. One of John Bright's sons was invited,
and returned home radiant. "Oh, papa," he explained, on being asked whether he had enjoyed
himself, "indeed I did. And Mr. Browne gave me such a nice name for you, papa."

"What was that?"

"Why, he asked me how that gay and festive cuss, the governor, was!" replied the boy.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was on a train going through Indiana. Among the passengers were a newly married couple,
who made themselves known to such an extent that the occupants of the car commenced passing
sarcastic remarks about them. The bride and groom stood the remarks for some time, but finally
the latter, who was a man of tremendous size, broke out in the following language at his tormenters:
"Yes, we're married--just married. We are going 160 miles farther, and I am going to 'spoon'
all the way. If you don't like it, you can get out and walk. She's my violet and I'm her sheltering
oak."

During the remainder of the journey they were left in peace.

HENRY W. SHAW ("Josh Billings")

NATRAL AND UNNATRAL ARISTOKRATS

Natur furnishes all the nobleman we hav.

She holds the pattent.

Pedigree haz no more to do in making a man aktually grater than he iz, than a pekok's feather
in his hat haz in making him aktually taller.

This iz a hard phakt for some tew learn.

This mundane earth iz thik with male and femail ones who think they are grate bekause their
ansesstor waz luckey in the sope or tobacco trade; and altho the sope haz run out sumtime since,
they try tew phool themselves and other folks with the suds.

Sope-suds iz a prekarious bubble.

Thare ain't nothing so thin on the ribs az a sope-suds aristokrat.

When the world stands in need ov an aristokrat, natur pitches one into it, and furnishes him
papers without enny flaw in them.

Aristokrasy kant be transmitted--natur sez so--in the papers.

Titles are a plan got up bi humans tew assist natur in promulgating aristokrasy.

Titles ain't ov enny more real use or necessity than dog collars are.

I hav seen dog collars that kost 3 dollars on dogs that wan't worth, in enny market, over 87-1/2
cents.

This iz a grate waste of collar; and a grate damage tew the dog.

Natur don't put but one ingredient into her kind ov aristokrasy, and that iz virtew.

She wets up the virtew, sumtimes, with a little pepper sass, just tew make it lively.

She sez that all other kinds are false; and i beleave natur.

I wish every man and woman on earth waz a bloated aristokrat--bloated with virtew.

Earthly manufaktured aristokrats are made principally out ov munny.

Forty years ago it took about 85 thousand dollars tew make a good-sized aristokrat, and innokulate
his family with the same disseaze, but it takes now about 600 thousand tew throw the partys
into fits.

Aristokrasy, like of the other bred stuffs, haz riz.

It don't take enny more virtew tew make an aristokrat now, nor clothes, than it did in the
daze ov Abraham.

Virtew don't vary.

Virtew is the standard ov values.

Clothes ain't.

Titles ain't.

A man kan go barefoot and be virtewous, and be an aristokrat.

Diogoneze waz an aristokrat.

His brown-stun front waz a tub, and it want on end, at that.

Moneyed aristokrasy iz very good to liv on in the present hi kondishun ov kodphis and wearing
apparel, provided yu see the munny, but if the munny kind of tires out and don't reach yu,
and you don't git ennything but the aristokrasy, you hay got to diet, that's all.

I kno ov thousands who are now dieting on aristokrasy.

They say it tastes good.

I presume they lie without knowing it.

Not enny ov this sort ov aristokrasy for Joshua Billings.

I never should think ov mixing munny and aristokrasy together; i will take mine seperate, if
yu pleze.

I don't never expekt tew be an aristokrat, nor an angel; i don't kno az i want tew be one.

I certainly should make a miserable angel.

I certainly never shall hav munny enuff tew make an aristokrat.

Raizing aristokrats iz a dredful poor bizzness; yu don't never git your seed back.

One democrat iz worth more tew the world than 60 thousand manufaktured aristokrats.

An Amerikan aristokrat iz the most ridikilus thing in market. They are generally ashamed ov
their ansesstors; and, if they hav enny, and live long enuff, they generally hav cauze tew
be ashamed ov their posterity.

I kno ov sevral familys in Amerika who are trieing tew liv on their aristokrasy. The money
and branes giv out sumtime ago.

It iz hard skratching for them.

Yu kan warm up kold potatoze and liv on them, but yu kant warm up aristokratik pride and git
even a smell.

Yu might az well undertake tew raze a krop ov korn in a deserted brikyard by manuring the ground
heavy with tanbark.

Yung man, set down, and keep still--yu will hay plenty ov chances yet to make a phool ov yureself
before yu die.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is told of an old Baptist parson, famous in Virginia, that he once visited a plantation
where the colored servant who met him at the gate asked which barn he would have his horse put in.

"Have you two barns?" asked the minister.

"Yes, sah," replied the servant; "dar's de old barn, and Mas'r Wales has jest built a new one."

"Where do you usually put the horses of clergymen who come to see your master?"

"Well, sah, if dey's Methodist or Baptist we gen'ally puts 'em in de ole barn, but if dey's
'Piscopals we puts 'em in the new one."

"Well, Bob, you can put my horse in the new barn; I'm a Baptist, but my horse is an Episcopalian."

JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL

THE YANKEE RECRUIT

Mister Buckinum, the follerin Billet was writ hum by a Yung feller of our town that wuz cussed
fool enuff to goe a-trottin inter Miss Chiff arter a Drum and fife. It ain't Nater for a feller
to let on that he's sick o' any bizness that he went intu off his own free will and a Cord,
but I rather cal'late he's middlin tired o' voluntearin By this time. I bleeve yu may put dependunts
on his statemence. For I never heered nothin bad on him let Alone his havin what Parson Wilbur
cals a pongshong for cocktales, and ses it wuz a soshiashun of idees sot him agoin arter the
Crootin Sargient cos he wore a cocktale onto his hat.

His Folks gin the letter to me and I shew it to parson Wilbur and he ses it oughter Bee printed,
send It to mister Buckinum, ses he, i don't ollers agree with him, ses he, but by Time, ses
he, I du like a feller that ain't a Feared.

I have intusspussed a Few refleckshuns hear and thair. We're kind o'
prest with Hayin.
                            Ewers respecfly,

                                    HOSEA BIGLOW.

  This kind o' sogerin' aint a mite like our October trainin',
  A chap could clear right out from there ef't only looked like rainin'.
  Recollect wut fun we hed, you'n I on' Ezry Hollis,
  Up there to Waltham plain last fall, ahavin' the Cornwallis?
  This sort o' thing aint jest like thet--I wished thet I wuz furder--
  Nimepunce a day fer killin' folks comes kind o' low for murder
  (Wy I've worked out to slarterin' some fer Deacon Cephas Billins,
  An' in the hardest times there wuz I ollers teched ten shillins),
  There's sutthin' gits into my throat thet makes it hard to swaller,
  It comes so nateral to think about a hempen collar;
  It's glory--but, in spite o' all my tryin' to git callous,
  I feel a kind o' in a cart, aridin' to the gallus.
  But wen it comes to bein' killed--I tell ye I felt streaked
  The fust time ever I found out wy baggonets wuz peaked;
  Here's how it wuz: I started out to go to a fan-dango,
  The sentinul he ups an' sez "Thet's furder 'an you can go."
  "None o' your sarse," sez I; sez he, "Stan' back!" "Aint you a buster?"
  Sez I, "I'm up to all thet air, I guess I've ben to muster;
  I know wy sentinuls air sot; you aint agoin' to eat us;
  Caleb haint no monopoly to court the scenoreetas;
  My folks to hum hir full ez good ez hisn be, by golly!"
  An' so ez I wuz goin' by, not thinkin' wut would folly,
  The everlastin' cus he stuck his one-pronged pitchfork in me
  An' made a hole right thru my close ez ef I was an in'my.
  Wal, it beats all how big I felt hoorawin' in old Funnel
  Wen Mister Bolles he gin the sword to our Leftenant Cunnle
  (It's Mister Secondary Bolles, thet writ the prize peace essay;
  Thet's wy he didn't list himself along o' us, I dessay).
  An' Rantoul, tu, talked pooty loud, but don't put his foot in it,
  Coz human life's so sacred thet he's principled agin' it----
  Though I myself can't rightly see it's any wus achokin' on 'em
  Than puttin' bullets thru their lights, or with a bagnet pokin' on 'em;
  How dreffle slick he reeled it off (like Blitz at our lyceam
  Ahaulin' ribbins from his chops so quick you skeercely see 'em),
  About the Anglo-Saxon race (an' saxons would be handy
  To du the buryin' down here upon the Rio Grandy),
  About our patriotic pas an' our star-spangled banner,
  Our country's bird alookin' on an' singin' out hosanner,
  An' how he (Mister B---- himself) wuz happy fer Ameriky----
  I felt, ez sister Patience sez, a leetle mite histericky.
  I felt, I swon, ez though it wuz a dreffle kind o' privilege
  Atrampin' round thru Boston streets among the gutter's drivelage;
  I act'lly thought it wuz a treat to hear a little drummin',
  An' it did bonyfidy seem millanyum wuz a-comin';
  Wen all on us gots suits (darned like them wore in the state prison),
  An' every feller felt ez though all Mexico was hisn.
  This 'ere's about the meanest place a skunk could wal diskiver
  (Saltillo's Mexican, I b'lieve, fer wut we call Salt river).
  The sort o' trash a feller gits to eat doos beat all nater,
  I'd give a year's pay fer a smell o' one good blue-nose tater;
  The country here thet Mister Bolles declared to be so charmin'
  Throughout is swarmin' with the most alarmin' kind o' varmin'.
  He talked about delishes froots, but then it was a wopper all,
  The holl on't 's mud an' prickly pears, with here an' there a chapparal;
  You see a feller peekin' out, an', fust you know, a lariat
  Is round your throat an' you a copse, 'fore you can say, "Wut air ye at?"
  You never see sech darned gret bugs (it may not be irrelevant
  To say I've seen a scarabæus pilularius[A] big ez a year old elephant),
  The rigiment come up one day in time to stop a red bug
  From runnin' off with Cunnle Wright--'twuz jest a common
    cimex lectularius.
  One night I started up on eend an thought I wuz to hum agin,
  I heern a horn, thinks I it's Sol the fisherman hez come agin,
  His bellowses is sound enough--ez I'm a livin' creeter,
  I felt a thing go thru my leg--'twuz nothin' more 'n a skeeter!
  Then there's the yeller fever, tu, they call it here el vomito--
  (Come, thet wun't du, you landcrab there, I tell ye to le' go my toe!
  My gracious! it's a scorpion thet's took a shine to play with 't,
  I darsn't skeer the tarnel thing fer fear he'd run away with 't).
  Afore I came away from hum I hed a strong persuasion
  Thet Mexicans worn't human beans--an ourang outang nation,
  A sort o' folks a chap could kill an' never dream on't arter,
  No more'n a feller'd dream o' pigs thet he had hed to slarter;
  I'd an idee thet they were built arter the darkie fashion all,
  And kickin' colored folks about, you know, 's a kind o' national;
  But wen I jined I won't so wise ez thet air queen o' Sheby,
  Fer, come to look at 'em, they aint much diff'rent from wut we be,
  An' here we air ascrougin' 'em out o' thir own dominions,
  Ashelterin' 'em, ez Caleb sez, under our eagle's pinions,
  Wich means to take a feller up jest by the slack o' 's trowsis
  An' walk him Spanish clean right out o' all his homes and houses;
  Wal, it does seem a curus way, but then hooraw fer Jackson!
  It must be right, fer Caleb sez it's reg'lar Anglo-Saxon.
  The Mex'cans don't fight fair, they say, they piz'n all the water,
  An' du amazin' lots o' things thet isn't wut they ough' to;
  Bein' they haint no lead, they make their bullets out o' copper
  An' shoot the darned things at us, tu, wich Caleb sez ain't proper;
  He sez they'd ough' to stan' right up an' let us pop 'em fairly
  (Guess wen he ketches 'em at thet he'll hev to git up airly),
  Thet our nation's bigger'n theirn an' so its rights air bigger,
  An' thet it's all to make 'em free thet we air pullin' trigger,
  Thet Anglo-Saxondom's idee's abreakin' 'em to pieces,
  An' thet idee's thet every man doos jest wut he damn pleases;
  Ef I don't make his meanin' clear, perhaps in some respex I can,
  I know thet "every man" don't mean a nigger or a Mexican;
  An' there's another thing I know, an' thet is, ef these creeturs,
  Thet stick an Anglo-Saxon mask onto State prison feeturs,
  Should come to Jalam Center fer to argify an' spout on 't,
  The gals 'ould count the silver spoons the minnit they cleared out on 't.

  This goin' ware glory waits ye haint one agreeable feetur,
  And ef it worn't fer wakin' snakes, I'd home agin short meter;
  O, wouldn't I be off, quick time, ef't worn't thet I wuz sartin
  They'd let the daylight into me to pay me fer desartin!
  I don't approve o' tellin' tales, but jest to you I may state
  Our ossifers aint wut they wuz afore they left the Bay State;
  Then it wuz "Mister Sawin, sir, you're midd'lin well now, be ye?
  Step up an' take a nipper, sir; I'm dreffle glad to see ye;"
  But now it's, "Ware's my eppylet? Here, Sawin, step an' fetch it!
  An' mind your eye, be thund'rin spry, or damn ye, you shall ketch it!"
  Wal, ez the Doctor sez, some pork will bile so, but by mighty,
  Ef I hed some on 'em to hum, I'd give 'em linkumvity,
  I'd play the rogue's march on their hides an' other music follerin'----
  But I must close my letter here for one on 'em 's a hollerin',
  These Anglosaxon ossifers--wal, taint no use a jawin',
  I'm safe enlisted fer the war,

                    Yourn,
                        BIRDOFREDOM SAWIN.

[Footnote A: it wuz "tumblebug" as he Writ it, but the parson put the Latten instid. i said
tother maid better meeter, but he said tha was eddykated peepl to Boston and tha wouldn't stan'
it no how, idnow as tha wood and idnow as tha wood.--H. B.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Two dusky small boys were quarreling; one was pouring forth a volume of vituperous epithets,
while the other leaned against a fence and calmly contemplated him. When the flow of language
was exhausted he said:

"Are you troo?"

"Yes."

"You ain't got nuffin' more to say?"

"Well, all dem tings what you called me, you is."

       *       *       *       *       *

A young wife who lost her husband by death telegraphed the sad tidings to her father in these
succinct words: "Dear John died this morning at ten. Loss fully covered by insurance."

THE ALARMED SKIPPER

  "It was an Ancient Mariner"

  JAMES T. FIELDS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WEDDING JOURNEY

He: Dearest, if I had known this tunnel was so long, I'd have given you a jolly hug.

She: Didn't you? Why, somebody did!

       *       *       *       *       *

"That is rather a shabby pair of trousers you have on, for a man in your position."

"Yes, sir; but clothes do not make the man. What if my trousers are shabby and worn? They cover
a warm heart, sir."

FREDERICK S. COZZENS

LIVING IN THE COUNTRY

It is a good thing to live in the country. To escape from the prison-walls of the metropolis--the
great brickery we call "the city"--and to live amid blossoms and leaves, in shadow and sunshine,
in moonlight and starlight, in rain, mist, dew, hoarfrost, and drought, out in the open campaign
and under the blue dome that is bounded by the horizon only. It is a good thing to have a well
with dripping buckets, a porch with honey-buds and sweet-bells, a hive embroidered with nimble
bees, a sun-dial mossed over, ivy up to the eaves, curtains of dimity, a tumbler of fresh flowers
in your bedroom, a rooster on the roof, and a dog under the piazza.

When Mrs. Sparrowgrass and I moved into the country, with our heads full of fresh butter, and
cool, crisp radishes for tea; with ideas entirely lucid respecting milk, and a looseness of
calculation as to the number in family it would take a good laying hen to supply with fresh
eggs every morning; when Mrs. Sparrowgrass and I moved into the country, we found some preconceived
notions had to be abandoned, and some departures made from the plans we had laid down in the
little back parlor of Avenue G.

One of the first achievements in the country is early rising: with the lark--with the sun--while
the dew is on the grass, "under the opening eye-lids of the morn," and so forth. Early rising!
What can be done with five or six o'clock in town? What may not be done at those hours in the
country? With the hoe, the rake, the dibble, the spade, the watering-pot? To plant, prune,
drill, transplant, graft, train, and sprinkle! Mrs. S. and I agreed to rise early in the country.

  Richard and Robin were two pretty men,
  They laid in bed till the clock struck ten;
  Up jumped Richard and looked at the sky;
  O, Brother Robin, the sun's very high!

Early rising in the country is not an instinct; it is a sentiment, and must be cultivated.

A friend recommended me to send to the south side of Long Island for some very prolific potatoes--the
real hippopotamus breed. Down went my man, and what, with expenses of horse-hire, tavern bills,
toll-gates, and breaking a wagon, the hippopotami cost as much apiece as pineapples. They were
fine potatoes, though, with comely features, and large, languishing eyes, that promised increase
of family without delay. As I worked my own garden (for which I hired a landscape gardener
at two dollars per day to give me instructions), I concluded that the object of my first experiment
in early rising should be the planting of the hippopotamuses. I accordingly arose next morning
at five, and it rained! I rose next day at five, and it rained! The next, and it rained! It
rained for two weeks! We had splendid potatoes every day for dinner. "My dear," said I to Mrs.
Sparrowgrass, "where did you get these fine potatoes?" "Why," said she, innocently, "out of
that basket from Long Island!" The last of the hippopotamuses were before me, peeled, and boiled,
and mashed, and baked, with a nice thin brown crust on the top.

I was more successful afterward. I did get some fine seed-potatoes in the ground. But something
was the matter; at the end of the season I did not get as many out as I had put in.

Mrs. Sparrowgrass, who is a notable housewife, said to me one day, "Now, my dear, we shall
soon have plenty of eggs, for I have been buying a lot of young chickens." There they were,
each one with as many feathers as a grasshopper, and a chirp not louder. Of course, we looked
forward with pleasant hopes to the period when the first cackle should announce the milk-white
egg, warmly deposited in the hay which we had provided bountifully. They grew finely, and one
day I ventured to remark that our hens had remarkably large combs, to which Mrs. S. replied,
"Yes, indeed, she had observed that; but if I wanted to have a real treat I ought to get up
early in the morning and hear them crow." "Crow!" said I, faintly, "our hens crowing! Then,
by 'the cock that crowed in the morn, to wake the priest all shaven and shorn,' we might as
well give up all hopes of having any eggs," said I; "for as sure as you live, Mrs. S., our
hens are all roosters!" And so they were roosters! They grew up and fought with the neighbors'
chickens, until there was not a whole pair of eyes on either side of the fence.

A dog is a good thing to have in the country. I have one which I raised from a pup. He is a
good, stout fellow, and a hearty barker and feeder. The man of whom I bought him said he was
thoroughbred, but he begins to have a mongrel look about him. He is a good watch-dog, though;
for the moment he sees any suspicious-looking person about the premises he comes right into
the kitchen and gets behind the stove. First, we kept him in the house, and he scratched all
night to get out. Then we turned him out, and he scratched all night to get in. Then we tied
him up at the back of the garden, and he howled so that our neighbour shot at him twice before
daybreak. Finally we gave him away, and he came back; and now he is just recovering from a
fit, in which he has torn up the patch that has been sown for our spring radishes.

A good, strong gate is a necessary article for your garden. A good, strong, heavy gate, with
a dislocated hinge, so that it will neither open nor shut. Such a one have I. The grounds before
my fence are in common, and all the neighbors' cows pasture there. I remarked to Mrs. S., as
we stood at the window in a June sunset, how placid and picturesque the cattle looked, as they
strolled about, cropping the green herbage. Next morning I found the innocent creatures in
my garden. They had not left a green thing in it. The corn in the milk, the beans on the poles,
the young cabbages, the tender lettuce, even the thriving shoots on my young fruit trees had
vanished. And there they were, looking quietly on the ruin they had made. Our watch-dog, too,
was foregathering with them. It was too much; so I got a large stick and drove them all out,
except a young heifer, whom I chased all over the flower-beds, breaking down my trellises,
my woodbines and sweet-briers, my roses and petunias, until I cornered her in the hotbed. I
had to call for assistance to extricate her from the sashes, and her owner has sued me for
damages. I believe I shall move in town.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Sparrowgrass and I have concluded to try it once more; we are going to give the country
another chance. After all, birds in the spring are lovely. First come little snowbirds, avant-couriers
of the feathered army; then bluebirds in national uniforms, just graduated, perhaps, from the
ornithological corps of cadets with high honors in the topographical class; then follows a
detachment of flying artillery--swallows; sand-martens, sappers and miners, begin their mines
and countermines under the sandy parapets; then cedar birds, in trim jackets faced with yellow--aha,
dragoons! And then the great rank and file of infantry, robins, wrens, sparrows, chipping-birds;
and lastly--the band!

  From nature's old cathedral sweetly ring
  The wild bird choirs--burst of the woodland band,
                  --who mid the blossoms sing;
  Their leafy temple, gloomy, tall and grand,
  Pillared with oaks, and roofed with Heaven's own hand.

There, there, that is Mario. Hear that magnificent chest note from the chestnuts! then a crescendo,
falling in silence--à plomb!

Hush! he begins again with a low, liquid monotone, mounting by degrees and swelling into an
infinitude of melody--the whole grove dilating, as it were, with exquisite epithalamium.

Silence now--and how still!

Hush! the musical monologue begins anew; up, up into the tree-tops it mounts, fairly lifting
the leaves with its passionate effluence, it trills through the upper branches--and then dripping
down the listening foliage, in a cadenza of matchless beauty, subsides into silence again.

"That's a he catbird," says my carpenter.

A catbird? Then Shakespeare and Shelley have wasted powder upon the skylark; for never such
"profuse strains of unpremeditated art" issued from living bird before. Skylark! pooh! who
would rise at dawn to hear the skylark if a catbird were about after breakfast?

I have bought me a boat. A boat is a good thing to have in the country, especially if there
be any water near. There is a fine beach in front of my house. When visitors come I usually
propose to give them a row. I go down--and find the boat full of water; then I send to the
house for a dipper and prepare to bail; and, what with bailing and swabbing her with a mop
and plugging up the cracks in her sides, and struggling to get the rudder in its place, and
unlocking the rusty padlock, my strength is so much exhausted that it is almost impossible
for me to handle the oars. Meanwhile the poor guests sit on stones around the beach with woe-begone
faces.

"My dear," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "why don't you sell that boat?"

"Sell it? Ha! ha!"

One day a Quaker lady from Philadelphia paid us a visit. She was uncommonly dignified, and
walked down to the water in the most stately manner, as is customary with Friends. It was just
twilight, deepening into darkness, when I set about preparing the boat. Meanwhile our Friend
seated herself upon something on the beach. While I was engaged in bailing, the wind shifted,
and I became sensible of an unpleasant odor; afraid that our Friend would perceive it, too,
I whispered Mrs. Sparrowgrass to coax her off and get her farther up the beach.

"Thank thee, no, Susan; I feel a smell hereabout and I am better where I am."

Mrs. S. came back and whispered mysteriously that our Friend was sitting on a dead dog, at
which I redoubled the bailing and got her out in deep water as soon as possible.

Dogs have a remarkable scent. A dead setter one morning found his way to our beach, and I towed
him out in the middle of the river; but the faithful creature came back in less than an hour--that
dog's smell was remarkable indeed.

I have bought me a fyke! A fyke is a good thing to have in the country. A fyke is a fishnet,
with long wings on each side; in shape like a nightcap with ear lappets; in mechanism like
a rat-trap. You put a stake at the tip end of the nightcap, a stake at each end of the outspread
lappets; there are large hoops to keep the nightcap distended, sinkers to keep the lower sides
of the lappets under water, and floats as large as muskmelons to keep the upper sides above
the water. The stupid fish come downstream, and, rubbing their noses against the wings, follow
the curve toward the fyke and swim into the trap. When they get in they cannot get out. That
is the philosophy of a fyke. I bought one of Conroy. "Now," said I to Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "we
shall have fresh fish to-morrow for breakfast," and went out to set it. I drove the stakes
in the mud, spread the fyke in the boat, tied the end of one wing to the stake, and cast the
whole into the water. The tide carried it out in a straight line. I got the loose end fastened
to the boat, and found it impossible to row back against the tide with the fyke. I then untied
it, and it went downstream, stake and all. I got it into the boat, rowed up, and set the stake
again. Then I tied one end to the stake and got out of the boat myself in shoal water. Then
the boat got away in deep water; then I had to swim for the boat. Then I rowed back and untied
the fyke. Then the fyke got away. Then I jumped out of the boat to save the fyke, and the boat
got away. Then I had to swim again after the boat and row after the fyke, and finally was glad
to get my net on dry land, where I left it for a week in the sun. Then I hired a man to set
it, and he did, but he said it was "rotted." Nevertheless, in it I caught two small flounders
and an eel. At last a brace of Irishmen came down to my beach for a swim at high tide. One
of them, a stout, athletic fellow, after performing sundry aquatic gymnastics, dived under
and disappeared for a fearful length of time. The truth is, he had dived into my net. After
much turmoil in the water, he rose to the surface with the filaments hanging over his head,
and cried out, as if he had found a bird's nest: "I say, Jimmy! begorra, here's a foike!" That
unfeeling exclamation to Jimmy, who was not the owner of the net, made me almost wish that
it had not been "rotted."

We are worried about our cucumbers. Mrs. S. is fond of cucumbers, so I planted enough for ten
families. The more they are picked, the faster they grow; and if you do not pick them, they
turn yellow and look ugly. Our neighbor has plenty, too. He sent us some one morning, by way
of a present. What to do with them we did not know, with so many of our own. To give them away
was not polite; to throw them away was sinful; to eat them was impossible. Mrs. S. said, "Save
them for seed." So we did. Next day, our neighbor sent us a dozen more. We thanked the messenger
grimly and took them in. Next morning another dozen came. It was getting to be a serious matter;
so I rose betimes the following morning, and when my neighbor's cucumbers came I filled his
man's basket with some of my own, by way of exchange. This bit of pleasantry was resented by
my neighbor, who told his man to throw them to the hogs. His man told our girl, and our girl
told Mrs. S., and, in consequence, all intimacy between the two families has ceased; the ladies
do not speak, even at church.

We have another neighbor, whose name is Bates; he keeps cows. This year our gate has been fixed;
but my young peach trees near the fences are accessible from the road; and Bates's cows walk
along that road morning and evening. The sound of a cow-bell is pleasant in the twilight. Sometimes,
after dark, we hear the mysterious curfew tolling along the road, and then with a louder peal
it stops before our fence and again tolls itself off in the distance. The result is, my peach
trees are as bare as bean-poles. One day I saw Mr. Bates walking along, and I hailed him: "Bates,
those are your cows there, I believe?" "Yes, sir; nice ones, ain't they?" "Yes," I replied,
"they are nice ones. Do you see that tree there?"--and I pointed to a thrifty peach, with about
as many leaves as an exploded sky-rocket. "Yes, sir." "Well, Bates, that red-and-white cow
of yours yonder ate the top off that tree; I saw her do it." Then I thought I had made Bates
ashamed of himself, and had wounded his feelings, perhaps, too much. I was afraid he would
offer me money for the tree, which I made up my mind to decline at once. "Sparrowgrass," said
he, "it don't hurt a tree a single mossel to chaw it if it's a young tree. For my part, I'd
rather have my young trees chawed than not. I think it makes them grow a leetle better. I can't
do it with mine, but you can, because you can wait to have good trees, and the only way to
have good trees is to have, 'em chawed."

       *       *       *       *       *

We have put a dumb-waiter in our house. A dumb-waiter is a good thing to have in the country,
on account of its convenience. If you have company, everything can be sent up from the kitchen
without any trouble; and if the baby gets to be unbearable, on account of his teeth, you can
dismiss the complainant by stuffing him in one of the shelves and letting him down upon the
help. To provide for contingencies, we had all our floors deafened. In consequence, you cannot
hear anything that is going on in the story below; and when you are in the upper room of the
house there might be a democratic ratification meeting in the cellar and you would not know
it. Therefore, if any one should break into the basement it would not disturb us; but to please
Mrs. Sparrowgrass, I put stout iron bars in all the lower windows. Besides, Mrs. Sparrowgrass
had bought a rattle when she was in Philadelphia; such a rattle as watchmen carry there. This
is to alarm our neighbor, who, upon the signal, is to come to the rescue with his revolver.
He is a rash man, prone to pull trigger first and make inquiries afterward.

One evening Mrs. S. had retired and I was busy writing, when it struck me a glass of ice-water
would be palatable. So I took the candle and a pitcher and went down to the pump. Our pump
is in the kitchen. A country pump in the kitchen is more convenient; but a well with buckets
is certainly more picturesque. Unfortunately, our well water has not been sweet since it was
cleaned out. First I had to open a bolted door that lets you into the basement hall, and then
I went to the kitchen door, which proved to be locked. Then I remembered that our girl always
carried the key to bed with her and slept with it under her pillow. Then I retraced my steps,
bolted the basement door, and went up into the dining-room. As is always the case, I found,
when I could not get any water, I was thirstier than I supposed I was. Then I thought I would
wake our girl up. Then I concluded not to do it. Then I thought of the well, but I gave that
up on account of its flavor. Then I opened the closet doors: there was no water there; and
then I thought of the dumb-waiter! The novelty of the idea made me smile. I took out two of
the movable shelves, stood the pitcher on the bottom of the dumb-waiter, got in myself with
the lamp; let myself down, until I supposed I was within a foot of the floor below, and then
let go!

We came down so suddenly that I was shot out of the apparatus as if it had been a catapult;
it broke the pitcher, extinguished the lamp, and landed me in the middle of the kitchen at
midnight, with no fire and the air not much above the zero point. The truth is, I had miscalculated
the distance of the descent--instead of falling one foot, I had fallen five. My first impulse
was to ascend by the way I came down, but I found that impracticable. Then I tried the kitchen
door; it was locked. I tried to force it open; it was made of two-inch stuff, and held its
own. Then I hoisted a window, and there were the rigid iron bars. If ever I felt angry at anybody
it was at myself for putting up those bars to please Mrs. Sparrowgrass. I put them up, not
to keep people in, but to keep people out.

I laid my cheek against the ice-cold barriers and looked out at the sky; not a star was visible;
it was as black as ink overhead. Then I thought of Baron Trenck and the prisoner of Chillon.
Then I made a noise. I shouted until I was hoarse, and ruined our preserving kettle with the
poker. That brought our dogs out in full bark, and between us we made night hideous. Then I
thought I heard a voice and listened--it was Mrs. Sparrowgrass calling to me from the top of
the staircase. I tried to make her hear me, but the infernal dogs united with howl, and growl,
and bark, so as to drown my voice, which is naturally plaintive and tender. Besides, there
were two bolted doors and double-deafened floors between us; how could she recognize my voice,
even if she did hear it? Mrs. Sparrowgrass called once or twice and then got frightened; the
next thing I heard was a sound as if the roof had fallen in, by which I understood that Mrs.
Sparrowgrass was springing the rattle! That called out our neighbor, already wide awake; he
came to the rescue with a bull-terrier, a Newfoundland pup, a lantern, and a revolver. The
moment he saw me at the window he shot at me, but fortunately just missed me. I threw myself
under the kitchen table and ventured to expostulate with him, but he would not listen to reason.
In the excitement I had forgotten his name, and that made matters worse. It was not until he
had roused up everybody around, broken in the basement door with an ax, gotten into the kitchen
with his cursed savage dogs and shooting-iron, and seized me by the collar, that he recognized
me--and then he wanted me to explain it! But what kind of an explanation could I make to him?
I told him he would have to wait until my mind was composed, and then I would let him understand
the whole matter fully. But he never would have had the particulars from me, for I do not approve
of neighbors that shoot at you, break in your door, and treat you, in your own house, as if
you were a jailbird. He knows all about it, however--somebody has told him--somebody tells
everybody everything in our village.--The Sparrowgrass Papers.

LOVE IN A COTTAGE

  They may talk of love in a cottage,
    And bowers of trellised vine----
  Of nature bewitchingly simple,
    And milkmaids half divine;
  They may talk of the pleasure of sleeping
    In the shade of a spreading tree,
  And a walk in the fields at morning,
    By the side of a footstep free!

  But give me a sly flirtation
    By the light of a chandelier----
  With music to play in the pauses,
    And nobody very near;
  Or a seat on a silken sofa,
    With a glass of pure old wine,
  And mamma too blind to discover
    The small white hand in mine.

  Your love in a cottage is hungry,
    Your vine is a nest for flies----
  Your milkmaid shocks the Graces,
    And simplicity talks of pies!
  You lie down to your shady slumber
    And wake with a bug in your ear,
  And your damsel that walks in the morning
    Is shod like a mountaineer.

  True love is at home on a carpet,
    And mightily likes his ease----
  And true love has an eye for a dinner,
    And starves beneath shady trees.
  His wing is the fan of a lady,
    His foot's an invisible thing,
  And his arrow is tipp'd with a jewel
    And shot from a silver string.

  NATHANIEL PARKER WILLIS

       *       *       *       *       *

A CASE OF CONSCIENCE

Uncle Jack: It is very good lemonade, I am sure; but tell me, Bonnie, why do you sell yours
for three cents a glass when Charley gets five for his?

Miss Bonnie: Well, you mustn't tell anybody, Uncle Jack, but the puppy fell in mine and I thought
it ought to be cheaper.

A Hingham, Massachusetts, woman is said to have hit upon a happy idea when she was puzzled
what to do in order to tell her mince and apple pies apart. She was advised to mark them, and
did so, and complacently announced: "This I've marked 'T. M.'--'Tis mince; an' that I've marked
'T. M.'--'Taint mince."

Doctor Oliver Wendell Holmes used to be an amateur photographer. When he presented a picture
to a friend, he wrote on the back of it, "Taken by O. W. Holmes & Sun."

HANS BREITMANN'S PARTY

  Hans Breitmann gife a barty:
    Dey had biano-blayin':
  I felled in lofe mit a 'Merican frau,
    Her name was Madilda Yane,
  She hat haar as prown as a pretzel,
    Her eyes vas himmel-plue,
  Und ven dey looket indo mine,
    Dey shplit mine heart in two.

  Hans Breitmann gife a barty:
    I vent dere, you'll be pound.
  I valtzet mit Madilda Yane
    Und vent shpinnen round and round.
  De pootiest Fräulein in de house,
    She veyed 'pout dwo hoondred pound,
  Und efery dime she gife a shoomp
    She make de vindows sound.

  Hans Breitmann gife a barty:
    I dells you it cost him dear.
  Dey rolled in more ash sefen kecks
    Of foost rate Lager Beer,
  Und venefer dey knocks de shpicket in
    De Deutschers gifes a cheer.
  I dinks dat so vine a barty
    Nefer coom to a het dis year.

  Hans Breitmann gife a barty:
    Dere all vas Souse und Brouse;
  Ven de sooper comed in, de gompany
    Did make demselfs to house.
  Dey ate das Brot und Gensy broost,
    De Bratwurst und Braten fine,
  Und vash der Abendessen down
    Mit four parrels of Neckarwein.

  Hans Breitmann gife a barty:
    We all cot troonk ash pigs.
  I poot mine mout to a parrel of beer,
    Und emptied it oop mit a schwigs.
  Und denn I gissed Madilda Yane
    Und she shlog me on the kop,
  Und de gompany fited mit dable-lecks
    Dill de coonsthable made oos shtop.

  Hans Breitmann gife a barty----
    Where ish dat barty now!
  Where ish de lofely golden cloud
    Dat float on de mountain's prow?
  Where ish de himmelstrahlende Stern----
    De shtar of de shpirit's light?
  All goned afay mit de Lager Beer----
    Afay in de Ewigkeit!

  CHARLES GODFREY LELAND.

FRANCES M. WHICHER

TIM CRANE AND THE WIDOW

"O, no, Mr. Crane, by no manner o' means, 'tain't a minnit tow soon for you to begin to talk
about gittin' married agin. I am amazed you should be afeerd I'd think so. See--how long's
Miss Crane ben dead? Six months!--land o' Goshen!--why, I've know'd a number of individdiwals
get married in less time than that. There's Phil Bennett's widder 't I was a-talkin' about
jest now--she 't was Louisy Perce--her husband hadent been dead but three months, you know.
I don't think it looks well for a woman to be in such a hurry--but for a man it's a different
thing--circumstances alters cases, you know. And then, sittiwated as you be, Mr. Crane, it's
a turrible thing for your family to be without a head to superintend the domestic consarns
and tend to the children--to say nothin' o' yerself, Mr. Crane. You dew need a companion, and
no mistake. Six months! Good grievous! Why, Squire Titus dident wait but six weeks arter he
buried his fust wife afore he married his second. I thought ther wa'n't no partickler need
o' his hurryin' so, seein' his family was all grow'd up. Such a critter as he pickt out, tew!
'twas very onsuitable--but every man to his taste--I hain't no dispersition to meddle with
nobody's consarns. There's old farmer Dawson, tew--his pardner hain't ben dead but ten months.
To be sure, he ain't married yet--but he would a-ben long enough ago if somebody I know on'd
gin him any incurridgement. But 'tain't for me to speak o' that matter. He's a clever old critter
and as rich as a Jew--but--lawful sakes! he's old enough to be my father. And there's Mr. Smith--Jubiter
Smith; you know him, Mr. Crane--his wife (she 'twas Aurory Pike) she died last summer, and
he's ben squintin' round among the wimmin ever since, and he may squint for all the good it'll
dew him so far as I'm consarned--tho' Mr. Smith's a respectable man--quite young and hain't
no family--very well off, tew, and quite intellectible--but I'm purty partickler. O, Mr. Crane!
it's ten year come Jinniwary sence I witnessed the expiration o' my belovid companion--an oncommon
long time to wait, to be sure--but 'tain't easy to find anybody to fill the place o' Hezekier
Bedott. I think you're the most like husband of ary individdiwal I ever see, Mr. Crane. Six
months Murderation! Curus you should be afeered I'd think't was tew soon--why, I've know'd----"

MR. CRANE. "Well, widder--I've been thinking about taking another companion--and I thought
I'd ask you----"

WIDOW. "O, Mr. Crane, egscuse my commotion, it's so onexpected. Jest hand me that are bottle
of camfire off the mantletry shelf--I'm ruther faint--dew put a little mite on my handkercher
and hold it to my nuz. There--that'll dew--I'm obleeged tew ye--now I'm ruther more composed--you
may perceed, Mr. Crane."

MR. CRANE. "Well, widder, I was a-going to ask you whether--whether----"

WIDOW. "Continner, Mr. Crane--dew--I knew it's turrible embarrissin'. I remember when my dezeased
husband made his suppositions to me he stammered and stuttered, and was so awfully flustered
it did seems as if he'd never git it out in the world, and I s'pose it's ginnerally the case,
at least it has been with all them that's made suppositions to me--you see they're ginerally
oncerting about what kind of an answer they're a-gwine to git, and it kind o' makes 'em narvous.
But when an individdiwal has reason to suppose his attachment's reperated, I don't see what
need there is o' his bein' flustrated--tho' I must say it's quite embarrassin' to me--pray
continner."

MR. C. "Well, then, I want to know if yu're willing I should have Melissy?"

WIDOW. "The dragon!"

MR. C. "I hain't said anything to her about it yet--thought the proper way was to get your
consent first. I remember when I courted Trypheny, we were engaged some time before mother
Kenipe knew anything about it, and when she found it out she was quite put out because I dident
go to her first. So when I made up my mind about Melissy, thinks me, I'll dew it right this
time and speak to the old woman first----"

WIDOW. "Old woman, hey! That's a purty name to call me!--amazin' perlite, tew! Want Melissy,
hey! Tribbleation! Gracious sakes alive! Well, I'll give it up now! I always know'd you was
a simpleton, Tim Crane, but I must confess I dident think you was quite so big a fool! Want
Melissy, dew ye? If that don't beat all! What an everlastin' old calf you must be to s'pose
she'd look at you. Why, you're old enough to be her father, and more tew--Melissy ain't only
in her twenty-oneth year. What a reedickilous idee for a man o' your age! as gray as a rat,
tew! I wonder what this world is a-comin' tew: 'tis astonishin' what fools old widdiwers will
make o' themselves! Have Melissy! Melissy!"

MR. C. "Why, widder, you surprise me. I'd no idee of being treated in this way after you'd
been so polite to me, and made such a fuss over me and the girls."

WIDOW. "Shet yer head, Tim Crane--nun o' yer sass to me. There's yer hat on that are table,
and here's the door--and the sooner you put on one and march out o' t'other, the better it'll
be for you. And I advise you afore you try to git married agin, to go out West and see 'f yet
wife's cold--and arter ye're satisfied on that pint, jest put a little lampblack on yer hair--'twould
add to yer appearance undoubtedly, and be of sarvice tew you when you want to flourish round
among the gals--and when ye've got yer hair fixt, jest splinter the spine o' yerback--'twould'n'
hurt yer looks a mite--you'd be intirely unresistible if you was a leetle grain straiter."

MR. C. "Well, I never!"

WIDOW. "Hold yer tongue--you consarned old coot you. I tell ye there's your hat, and there's
the door--be off with yerself, quick metre, or I'll give ye a hyst with the broomstick."

MR. C. "Gimmeni!"

WIDOW (rising). "Git out, I say--I ain't a-gwine to start' here and be insulted under my own
ruff--and so git along--and if ever you darken my door again, or say a word to Melissy, it'll
be the woss for you--that's all."

MR. C. "Treemenjous! What a buster!"

WIDOW. "Go 'long--go 'long--go 'long, you everlastin' old gum. I won't hear another word" [stops
her ears]. "I won't, I won't, I won't."

  [Exit Mr. Crane.

  (Enter Melissa, accompanied by Captain Canoot.)

"Good-evenin', Cappen Well, Melissy, hum at last, hey? Why didn't you stay till mornin'? Party
business keepin' me up here so late waitin' for you--when I'm eny most tired to death ironin'
and workin' like a slave all day--ought to ben abed an hour ago. Thought ye left me with agreeable
company, hey? I should like to know what arthly reason you had to s'pose old Crane was agreeable
to me? I always despised the critter; always thought he wuz a turrible fool--and now I'm convinced
on't. I'm completely disgusted wit him--and I let him know it to-night. I gin him a piece o'
my mind 't I guess he'll be apt to remember for a spell. I ruther think he went off with a
flea in his ear. Why, Cappen--did ye ever hear of such a piece of audacity in all yer born
days? for him--Tim Crane--to durst to expire to my hand--the widder o' Deacon Bedott, jest
as if I'd condescen' to look at him--the old numbskull! He don't know B from a broomstick;
but if he'd a-stayed much longer I'd a-teached him the difference, I guess. He's got his walkin'
ticket now--I hope he'll lemme alone in futur. And where's Kier? Gun hum with the Cranes, hey!
Well, I guess it's the last time. And now, Melissy Bedott, you ain't to have nothin' more to
dew with them gals--d'ye hear? You ain't to 'sociate with 'em at all arter this--twould only
be incurridgin' th' old man to come a-pesterin' me agin--and I won't have him round--d'ye hear?
Don't be in a hurry, Cappen--and don't be alarmed at my gittin' in such passion about old Crane's
presumption. Mabby you think 'twas onfeelin' in me to use him so--an' I don't say but what
'twas ruther, but then he's so awful disagreeable tew me, you know--'tain't everybody I'd treat
in such a way. Well, if you must go, good-evenin'! Give my love to Hanner when you write agin--dew
call frequently, Cappen Canoot, dew."--The Bedott Papers.

THE STAMMERING WIFE

  When deeply in love with Miss Emily Pryne,
  I vowed, if, the maiden would only be mine,
    I would always endeavor to please her.
  She blushed her consent, though the stuttering lass
  Said never a word except "You're an ass----
    An ass--an ass-iduous teaser!"

  But when we were married, I found to my ruth,
  The stammering lady had spoken the truth;
    For often, in obvious dudgeon,
  She'd say, if I ventured to give her a jog
  In the way of reproof--"You're a dog--you're a dog----
    A dog--a dog-matic curmudgeon!"

  And once when I said, "We can hardly afford
  This extravagant style, with our moderate hoard,
    And hinted we ought to be wiser.
  She looked, I assure you, exceedingly blue,
  And fretfully cried, 'You're a Jew--you're a Jew----
    A very ju-dicious adviser!'"

  Again, when it happened that, wishing to shirk
  Some rather unpleasant and arduous work,
    I begged her to go to a neighbor,
  She wanted to know why I made such a fuss,
  And saucily said, "You're a cuss--cuss--cuss----
    You were always ac-cus-tomed to labor!"

  Out of temper at last with the insolent dame,
  And feeling that madam was greatly to blame
    To scold me instead of caressing,
  I mimicked her speech--like a churl that I am--
  And angrily said, "You're a dam--dam--dam
    A dam-age instead of a blessing!"

  JOHN GODFREY SAXE.

       *       *       *       *       *

HE ROSE TO THE OCCASION

Several years ago there labored in one of the Western villages of Minnesota a preacher who
was always in the habit of selecting his texts from the Old Testament, and particularly some
portion of the history of Noah. No matter what the occasion was, he would always find some
parallel incident from the history of this great character that would readily serve as a text
or illustration.

At one time he was called upon to unite the daughter of the village mayor and a prominent attorney
in the holy bonds of matrimony. Two little boys, knowing his determination to give them a portion
of the sacred history touching Noah's marriage, hit upon the novel idea of pasting together
two leaves in the family Bible so as to connect, without any apparent break, the marriage of
Noah and the description of the Ark of the Covenant.

When the noted guests were all assembled and the contracting parties with attendants in their
respective stations, the preacher began the ceremonies by reading the following text: "And
when Noah was one hundred and forty years old, he took unto himself a wife" (then turning the
page he continued) "three hundred cubits in length, fifty cubits in width, and thirty cubits
in depth, and within and without besmeared with pitch." The story seemed a little strong, but
he could not doubt the Bible, and after reading it once more and reflecting a moment, he turned
to the startled assemblage with these remarks: "My beloved brethren, this is the first time
in the history of my life that my attention has been called to this important passage of the
Scriptures, but it seems to me that it is one of the most forcible illustrations of that grand
eternal truth, that the nature of woman is exceedingly difficult to comprehend."

POLITE

In her "Abandoning an Adopted Farm," Miss Kate Sanborn tells of her annoyance at being besieged
by agents, reporters and curiosity seekers. She says: "I was so perpetually harassed that I
dreaded to see a stranger approach with an air of business. The other day I was just starting
out for a drive when I noticed the usual stranger hurrying on. Putting my head out of the carriage,
I said in a petulant and weary tone, 'Do you want to see me?' The young man stopped, smiled,
and replied courteously, 'It gives me pleasure to look at you, madam, but I was going farther on.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

A small boy in Boston, who had unfortunately learned to swear, was rebuked by his father. "Who
told you that I swore?" asked the bad little boy. "Oh, a little bird told me," said the father.
The boy stood and looked out of the window, scowling at some sparrows which were scolding and
chattering. Then he had a happy thought. "I know who told you," he said. "It was one of those
---- sparrows."

LOST, STRAYED OR STOLEN

It is said that when President Polk visited Boston he was impressively received at Faneuil
Hall Market. The clerk walked in front of him down the length of the market, announcing in
loud tones:

"Make way, gentlemen, for the President of the United States! The President of the United States!
Fellow-citizens, make room!"

The Chief had stepped into one of the stalls to look at some game, when Mr. Rhodes turned round
suddenly, and, finding himself alone, suddenly changed his tone and exclaimed:

"My gracious, where has that darned idiot got to?"

HE CAME TO PAY

  The editor sat with his head in his hands
    And his elbows at rest on his knees;
  He was tired of the ever-increasing demands
    On his time, and he panted for ease.
  The clamor for copy was scorned with a sneer,
    And he sighed in the lowest of tones:
  "Won't somebody come with a dollar to cheer
    The heart of Emanuel Jones?"

  Just then on the stairway a footstep was heard
    And a rap-a-tap loud at the door,
  And the flickering hope that had been long deferred
    Blazed up like a beacon once more;
  And there entered a man with a cynical smile
    That was fringed with a stubble of red,
  Who remarked, as he tilted a sorry old tile
    To the back of an average head:

  "I have come here to pay"--Here the editor cried
    "You're as welcome as flowers in spring!
  Sit down in this easy armchair by my side,
    And excuse me awhile till I bring
  A lemonade dashed with a little old wine
    And a dozen cigars of the best....
  Ah! Here we are! This, I assure you, is fine;
    Help yourself, most desirable guest."

  The visitor drank with a relish, and smoked
    Till his face wore a satisfied glow,
  And the editor, beaming with merriment, joked
    In a joyous, spontaneous flow;
  And then, when the stock of refreshments was gone,
    His guest took occasion to say,
  In accents distorted somewhat by a yawn,
    "My errand up here is to pay----"

  But the generous scribe, with a wave of his hand,
    Put a stop to the speech of his guest,
  And brought in a melon, the finest the land
    Ever bore on its generous breast;
  And the visitor, wearing a singular grin,
    Seized the heaviest half of the fruit,
  And the juice, as it ran in a stream from his chin,
    Washed the mud of the pike from his boot.

  Then, mopping his face on a favorite sheet
    Which the scribe had laid carefully by,
  The visitor lazily rose to his feet
    With the dreariest kind of a sigh,
  And he said, as the editor sought his address,
    In his books to discover his due:
  "I came here to pay--my respects to the press,
    And to borrow a dollar of you!"

  ANDREW V. KELLEY ("Parmenas Mix").

A GENTLE COMPLAINT

  FAIRFIELD, CONN.

  P. T. BARNUM, Esq.

Dear Sir: We have a large soiled Asiatic elephant visiting us now, which we suspect belongs
to you. His skin is a misfit, and he keeps moving his trunk from side to side nervously. If
you have missed an elephant answering to this description, please come up and take him away,
as we have no use for him. An elephant on a place so small as ours is more of a trouble than
a convenience. I have endeavored to frighten him away, but he does not seem at all timid, and
my wife and I, assisted by our hired man, tried to push him out of the yard, but our efforts
were unavailing. He has made our home his own now for some days, and he has become quite de
trop. We do not mind him so much in the daytime, for he then basks mostly on the lawn and plays
with the children (to whom he has greatly endeared himself), but at night he comes up and lays
his head on our piazza, and his deep and stertorous breathing keeps my wife awake. I feel as
though I were entitled to some compensation for his keep. He is a large though not fastidious
eater, and he has destroyed some of my plants by treading on them; and he also leaned against
our woodhouse. My neighbor--who is something of a wag--says I have a lien on his trunk for
the amount of his board; but that, of course, is only pleasantry. Your immediate attention
will oblige.

                                                     SIMEON FORD.

  OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.

MARIETTA HOLLEY

A PLEASURE EXERTION

Wal, the very next mornin' Josiah got up with a new idee in his head. And he broached it to
me to the breakfast table. They have been havin' sights of pleasure exertions here to Jonesville
lately. Every week a'most they would go off on a exertion after pleasure, and Josiah was all
up on end to go, too.

That man is a well-principled man as I ever see, but if he had his head he would be worse than
any young man I ever see to foller up picnics and 4th of Julys and camp-meetin's and all pleasure
exertions. But I don't encourage him in it. I have said to him time and again: "There is a
time for everything, Josiah Allen, and after anybody has lost all their teeth and every mite
of hair on the top of their head, it is time for 'em to stop goin' to pleasure exertions."

But good land! I might jest as well talk to the wind! If that man should get to be as old as
Mr. Methusler, and be goin' on a thousand years old, he would prick up his ears if he should
hear of a exertion. All summer long that man has beset me to go to 'em, for he wouldn't go
without me. Old Bunker Hill himself hain't any sounder in principle than Josiah Allen, and
I have had to work head-work to make excuses and quell him down. But last week they was goin'
to have one out on the lake, on a island, and that man sot his foot down that go he would.

We was to the breakfast table a-talkin' it over, and says I:

"I shan't go, for I am afraid of big water, anyway."

Says Josiah: "You are jest as liable to be killed in one place as another."

Says I, with a almost frigid air as I passed him his coffee, "Mebee I shall be drounded on
dry land, Josiah Allen, but I don't believe it."

Says he, in a complainin' tone: "I can't get you started onto a exertion for pleasure anyway."

Says I, in a almost eloquent way: "I don't believe in makin' such exertions after pleasure.
As I have told you time and agin, I don't believe in chasin' of her up. Let her come of her
own free will. You can't ketch her by chasin' after her no more than you can fetch up a shower
in a drowth by goin' outdoors and runnin' after a cloud up in the heavens above you. Sit down
and be patient, and when it gets ready the refreshin' raindrops will begin to fall without
none of your help. And it is jest so with pleasure, Josiah Allen; you may chase her up over
all the oceans and big mountains of the earth, and she will keep ahead of you all the time;
but set down and not fatigue yourself a-thinkin' about her, and like as not she will come right
into your house unbeknown to you."

"Wal," says he, "I guess I'll have another griddle-cake, Samantha."

And as he took it and poured the maple syrup over it, he added gently but firmly:

"I shall go, Samantha, to this exertion, and I should be glad to have you present at it, because
it seems jest to me as if I should fall overboard durin' the day."

Men are deep. Now that man knew that no amount of religious preachin' could stir me up like
that one speech. For though I hain't no hand to coo, and don't encourage him in bein' spoony
at all, he knows that I am wrapped almost completely up in him. I went.

Wal, the day before the exertion Kellup Cobb come into our house of a errant, and I asked him
if he was goin' to the exertion; and he said he would like to go, but he dassent.

"Dassent!" says I. "Why dassent you?"

"Why," says he, "how would the rest of the wimmin round Jonesville feel if I should pick out
one woman and wait on her?" Says he bitterly: "I hain't perfect, but I hain't such a cold-blooded
rascal as not to have any regard for wimmen's feelin's. I hain't no heart to spile all the
comfort of the day for ten or a dozen wimmen."

"Why," says I, in a dry tone, "one woman would be happy, accordin' to your tell."

"Yes, one woman happy, and ten or fifteen gauled--bruised in the tenderest place."

"On their heads?" says I, inquirin'ly.

"No," says he, "their hearts. All the girls have probable had more or less hopes that I would
invite 'em--make a choice of 'em. But when the blow was struck, when I had passed 'em by and
invited some other, some happier woman, how would them slighted ones feel? How do you s'pose
they would enjoy the day, seein' me with another woman, and they droopin' round without me?
That is the reason, Josiah Allen's wife, that I dassent go. It hain't the keepin' of my horse
through the day that stops me. For I could carry a quart of oats and a little jag of hay in
the bottom of the buggy. If I had concluded to pick out a girl and go, I had got it all fixed
out in my mind how I would manage. I had thought it over, while I was ondecided and duty was
a-strugglin' with me. But I was made to see where the right way for me lay, and I am goin'
to foller it. Joe Purday is goin' to have my horse, and give me seven shillin's for the use
of it and its keepin'. He come to hire it just before I made up my mind that I hadn't ort to go.

"Of course it is a cross to me. But I am willin' to bear crosses for the fair sect. Why," says
he, a-comin' out in a open, generous way, "I would be willin', if necessary for the general
good of the fair sect--I would be willin' to sacrifice ten cents for 'em, or pretty nigh that,
I wish so well to 'em. I hain't that enemy to 'em that they think I am. I can't marry 'em all,
Heaven knows I can't, but I wish 'em well."

"Wal," says I, "I guess my dishwater is hot; it must be pretty near bilin' by this time."

And he took the hint and started off. I see it wouldn't do no good to argue with him that wimmen
didn't worship him. For when a feller once gets it into his head that female wimmen are all
after him, you might jest as well dispute the wind as argue with him. You can't convince him
nor the wind--neither of 'em--so what's the use of wastin' breath on 'em. And I didn't want
to spend a extra breath that day anyway, knowin' I had such a hard day's work in front of me,
a-finishin' cookin' up provisions for the exertion, and gettin' things done up in the house
so I could leave 'em for all day.

We had got to start about the middle of the night; for the lake was fifteen miles from Jonesville,
and the old mare's bein' so slow, we had got to start an hour or two ahead of the rest. I told
Josiah in the first on't, that I had just as lives set up all night as to be routed out at
two o'clock. But he was so animated and happy at the idee of goin' that he looked on the bright
side of everything, and he said that we would go to bed before dark, and get as much sleep
as we commonly did. So we went to bed the sun an hour high. And I was truly tired enough to
lay down, for I had worked dretful hard that day--almost beyond my strength. But we hadn't
more'n got settled down into the bed, when we heard a buggy and a single wagon stop at the
gate, and I got up and peeked through the window, and I see it was visitors come to spend the
evenin.' Elder Bamber and his family, and Deacon Dobbinses' folks.

Josiah vowed that he wouldn't stir one step out of that bed that night. But I argued with him
pretty sharp, while I was throwin' on my clothes, and I finally got him started up. I hain't
deceitful, but I thought if I got my clothes all on before they came in I wouldn't tell 'em
that I had been to bed that time of day. And I did get all dressed up, even to my handkerchief
pin. And I guess they had been there as much as ten minutes before I thought that I hadn't
took my nightcap off. They looked dreadful curious at me, and I felt awful meachin'. But I
jest ketched it off, and never said nothin'. But when Josiah come out of the bedroom with what
little hair he has got standin' out in every direction, no two hairs a-layin' the same way,
and one of his galluses a-hangin' most to the floor under his best coat, I up and told 'em.
I thought mebby they wouldn't stay long. But Deacon Dobbinses' folks seemed to be all waked
up on the subject of religion, and they proposed we should turn it into a kind of a conference
meetin'; so they never went home till after ten o'clock.

It was 'most eleven when Josiah and me got to bed agin. And then jest as I was gettin' into
a drowse, I heered the cat in the buttery, and I got up to let her out. And that roused Josiah
up, and he thought he heered the cattle in the garden, and he got up and went out. And there
we was a-marchin' round 'most all night.

And if we would get into a nap, Josiah would think it was mornin' and he would start up and
go out to look at the clock. He seemed so afraid we would be belated and not get to that exertion
in time. And there we was on our feet 'most all night. I lost myself once, for I dreampt that
Josiah was a-drowndin', and Deacon Dobbins was on the shore a-prayin' for him. It started me
so that I jist ketched hold of Josiah and hollered. It skairt him awfully, and says he, "What
does ail you, Samantha? I hain't been asleep before to-night, and now you have rousted me up
for good. I wonder what time it is!"

And then he got out of bed again and went and looked at the clock. It was half-past one, and
he said he "didn't believe we had better go to sleep again, for fear we would be too late for
the exertion, and he wouldn't miss that for nothin'."

"Exertion!" says I, in a awful cold tone. "I should think we had had exertion enough for one
spell."

But as bad and wore out as Josiah felt bodily, he was all animated in his mind about what a
good time he was a-goin' to have. He acted foolish, and I told him so. I wanted to wear my
brown-and-black gingham, and a shaker, but Josiah insisted that I should wear a new lawn dress
that he had brought me home as a present, and I had jest got made up. So jest to please him,
I put it on, and my best bonnet.

And that man, all I could do and say, would put on a pair of pantaloons I had been a-makin'
for Thomas Jefferson. They was gettin' up a milatary company to Jonesville, and these pantaloons
was blue, with a red stripe down the sides--a kind of uniform. Josiah took a awful fancy to
'em, and says he:

"I will wear 'em, Samantha; they look so dressy."

Says I: "They hain't hardly done. I was goin' to stitch that red stripe on the left leg on
again. They ain't finished as they ort to be, and I would not wear 'em. It looks vain in you."

Says he: "I will wear 'em, Samantha. I will be dressed up for once."

I didn't contend with him. Thinks I: we are makin' fools of ourselves by goin' at all, and
if he wants to make a little bigger fool of himself by wearin' them blue pantaloons, I won't
stand in his light. And then I had got some machine oil onto 'em, so I felt that I had got
to wash 'em, anyway, before Thomas J. took 'em to wear. So he put 'em on.

I had good vittles, and a sight of 'em. The basket wouldn't hold 'em all, so Josiah had to
put a bottle of red rossberry jell into the pocket of his dress-coat, and lots of other little
things, such as spoons and knives and forks, in his pantaloons and breast pockets. He looked
like Captain Kidd armed up to the teeth, and I told him so. But good land! he would have carried
a knife in his mouth if I had asked him to, he felt so neat about goin', and boasted so on
what a splendid exertion it was goin' to be.

We got to the lake about eight o'clock, for the old mare went slow. We was about the first
ones there, but they kep' a-comin', and before ten o'clock we all got there.

The young folks made up their minds they would stay and eat their dinner in a grove on the
mainland. But the majority of the old folks thought it was best to go and set our tables where
we laid out to in the first place. Josiah seemed to be the most rampant of any of the company
about goin'. He said he shouldn't eat a mouthful if he didn't eat it on that island. He said
what was the use of going to a pleasure exertion at all if you didn't try to take all the pleasure
you could. So about twenty old fools of us sot sail for the island.

I had made up my mind from the first on't to face trouble, so it didn't put me out so much
when Deacon Dobbins, in gettin' into the boat, stepped onto my new lawn dress and tore a hole
in it as big as my two hands, and ripped it half offen the waist. But Josiah havin' felt so
animated and tickled about the exertion, it worked him up awfully when, jest after we had got
well out onto the lake, the wind took his hat off and blew it away out onto the lake. He had
made up his mind to look so pretty that day that it worked him up awfully. And then the sun
beat down onto him; and if he had had any hair onto his head it would have seemed more shady.

But I did the best I could by him. I stood by him and pinned on his red bandanna handkerchief
onto his head. But as I was a-fixin' it on, I see there was suthin' more than mortification
ailded him. The lake was rough and the boat rocked, and I see he was beginning to be awful
sick. He looked deathly. Pretty soon I felt bad, too. Oh! the wretchedness of that time. I
have enjoyed poor health considerable in my life, but never did I enjoy so much sickness in
so short a time as I did on that pleasure exertion to that island. I s'pose our bein' up all
night a'most made it worse. When we reached the island we was both weak as cats.

I sot right down on a stun and held my head for a spell, for it did seem as if it would split
open. After awhile I staggered up onto my feet, and finally I got so I could walk straight
and sense things a little; though it was tejus work to walk anyway, for we had landed on a
sand-bar, and the sand was so deep it was all we could do to wade through it, and it was as
hot as hot ashes ever was.

Then I began to take the things out of my dinner-basket. The butter had all melted, so we had
to dip it out with a spoon. And a lot of water had washed over the side of the boat, so my
pies and tarts and delicate cakes and cookies looked awful mixed up. But no worse than the
rest of the company's did.

But we did the best we could, and the chicken and cold meats bein' more solid, had held together
quite well, so there was some pieces of it conside'able hull, though it was all very wet and
soppy. But we separated 'em out as well as we could, and begun to make preparations to eat.
We didn't feel so animated about eatin' as we should if we hadn't been so sick to our stomachs.
But we felt as if we must hurry, for the man that owned the boat said he knew it would rain
before night by the way the sun scalded.

There wasn't a man or a woman there but what the presperation and sweat jest poured down their
faces. We was a haggard and melancholy lookin' set. There was a piece of woods a little ways
off, but it was up quite a rise of ground, and there wasn't one of us but what had the rheumatiz
more or less. We made up a fire on the sand, though it seemed as if it was hot enough to steep
tea and coffee as it was.

After we got the fire started, I histed a umberell and sot down under it and fanned myself
hard, for I was afraid of a sunstroke.

Wal, I guess I had set there ten minutes or more, when all of a sudden I thought, Where is
Josiah? I hadn't seen him since we had got there. I riz up and asked the company, almost wildly,
if they had seen my companion, Josiah.

They said, No, they hadn't.

But Celestine Wilkin's little girl, who had come with her grandpa and grandma Gowdy, spoke
up, and says she:

"I seen him goin' off toward the woods. He acted dretful strange, too; he seemed to be a walkin'
off sideways."

"Had the sufferin's he had undergone made him delerious?" says I to myself; and then I started
off on the run toward the woods, and old Miss Bobbet, and Miss Gowdy, and Sister Bamber, and
Deacon Dobbinses' wife all rushed after me.

Oh, the agony of them two or three minutes! my mind so distracted with fourbodin's, and the
presperation and sweat a-pourin' down. But all of a sudden, on the edge of the woods, we found
him. Miss Gowdy, weighin' a little less than me, mebby one hundred pounds or so, had got a
little ahead of me. He sot backed up against a tree in a awful cramped position, with his left
leg under him. He looked dretful uncomfortable. But when Miss Gowdy hollered out: "Oh, here
you be! We have been skairt about you. What is the matter?" he smiled a dretful sick smile,
and says he: "Oh, I thought I would come out here and meditate a spell. It was always a real
treat to me to meditate."

Just then I come up a-pantin' for breath, and as the wimmen all turned to face me, Josiah scowled
at me and shook his fist at them four wimmen, and made the most mysterious motions of his hands
toward 'em. But the minute they turned round he smiled in a sickish way, and pretended to go
to whistlin'.

Says I, "What is the matter, Josiah Allen? What are you off here for?"

"I am a-meditatin', Samantha."

Says I, "Do you come down and jine the company this minute, Josiah Allen. You was in a awful
takin' to come with 'em, and what will they think to see you act so?"

The wimmen happened to be a-lookin' the other way for a minute, and he looked at me as if he
would take my head off, and made the strangest motions toward 'em; but the minute they looked
at him he would pretend to smile--that deathly smile.

Says I, "Come, Josiah Allen, we're goin' to get dinner right away, for we are afraid it will rain."

"Oh, wal," says he, "a little rain, more or less, hain't a-goin' to hender a man from meditatin'."

I was wore out, and says I, "Do you stop meditatin' this minute, Josiah Allen!"

Says he, "I won't stop, Samantha. I let you have your way a good deal of the time; but when
I take it into my head to meditate, you hain't a-goin' to break it up."

Jest at that minute they called to me from the shore to come that minute to find some of my
dishes. And we had to start off. But oh! the gloom of my mind that was added to the lameness
of my body. Them strange motions and looks of Josiah wore on me. Had the sufferin's of the
night, added to the trials of the day, made him crazy? I thought more'n as likely as not I
had got a luny on my hands for the rest of my days.

And then, oh, how the sun did scald down onto me, and the wind took the smoke so into my face
that there wasn't hardly a dry eye in my head. And then a perfect swarm of yellow wasps lit
down onto our vittles as quick as we laid 'em down, so you couldn't touch a thing without runnin'
a chance to be stung. Oh, the agony of that time! the distress of that pleasure exertion! But
I kep' to work, and when we had got dinner most ready I went back to call Josiah again. Old
Miss Bobbet said she would go with me, for she thought she see a wild turnip in the woods there,
and her Shakespeare had a awful cold, and she would try to dig one to give him. So we started
up the hill again. He sot in the same position, all huddled up, with his leg under him, as
uncomfortable a lookin' creeter as I ever see. But when we both stood in front of him, he pretended
to look careless and happy, and smiled that sick smile.

Says I, "Come, Josiah Allen; dinner is ready."

"Oh, I hain't hungry," says he. "The table will probable be full. I had jest as lieves wait."

"Table full!" says I. "You know jest as well as I do that we are eatin' on the ground. Do you
come and eat your dinner this minute."

"Yes, do come," says Miss Bobbet; "we can't get along without you!"

"Oh!" says he, with a ghastly smile, pretending to joke, "I have got plenty to eat here--I
can eat muskeeters."

The air was black with 'em, I couldn't deny it.

"The muskeeters will eat you, more likely," says I. "Look at your face and hands; they are
all covered with 'em."

"Yes, they have eat considerable of a dinner out of me, but I don't begrech 'em. I hain't small
enough, nor mean enough, I hope, to begrech 'em one good meal."

Miss Bobbet started off in search of her wild turnip, and after she had got out of sight Josiah
whispered to me with a savage look and a tone sharp as a sharp ax:

"Can't you bring forty or fifty more wimmen up here? You couldn't come here a minute, could
you, without a lot of other wimmen tight to your heels?"

I begun to see daylight, and after Miss Bobbet had got her wild turnip and some spignut, I
made some excuse to send her on ahead, and then Josiah told me all about why he had gone off
by himself alone, and why he had been a-settin' in such a curious position all the time since
we had come in sight of him.

It seems he had set down on that bottle of rossberry jell. That red stripe on the side wasn't
hardly finished, as I said, and I hadn't fastened my thread properly, so when he got to pullin'
at 'em to try to wipe off the jell, the thread started, and bein' sewed on a machine, that
seam jest ripped from top to bottom. That was what he had walked off sideways toward the woods
for. But Josiah Allen's wife hain't one to desert a companion in distress. I pinned 'em up
as well as I could, and I didn't say a word to hurt his feelin's, only I jest said this to
him, as I was fixin' 'em--I fastened my gray eye firmly, and almost sternly onto him, and says I:

"Josiah Allen, is this pleasure?" Says I, "You was determined to come."

"Throw that in my face agin, will you? What if I was? There goes a pin into my leg! I should
think I had suffered enough without your stabbin' of me with pins."

"Wal, then, stand still, and not be a-caperin' round so. How do you s'pose I can do anything
with you a-tossin' round so?"

"Wal, don't be so aggravatin', then."

I fixed 'em as well as I could, but they looked pretty bad, and there they was all covered
with jell, too. What to do I didn't know. But finally I told him I would put my shawl onto
him. So I doubled it up corner-ways as big as I could, so it almost touched the ground behind,
and he walked back to the table with me. I told him it was best to tell the company all about
it, but he just put his foot down that he wouldn't, and I told him if he wouldn't that he must
make his own excuses to the company about wearin' the shawl. So he told 'em he always loved
to wear summer shawls; he thought it made a man look so dressy.

But he looked as if he would sink all the time he was a-sayin' it. They all looked dretful
curious at him, and he looked as meachin' as if he had stole sheep--and meachin'er--and he
never took a minute's comfort, nor I nuther. He was sick all the way back to the shore, and
so was I. And jest as we got into our wagons and started for home, the rain began to pour down.
The wind turned our old umberell inside out in no time. My lawn dress was most spilte before,
and now I give up my bonnet. And I says to Josiah:

"This bonnet and dress are spilte, Josiah Allen, and I shall have to buy some new ones."

"Wal, wal! who said you wouldn't?" he snapped out.

But it were on him. Oh, how the rain poured down! Josiah, havin' nothin' but a handkerchief
on his head, felt it more than I did. I had took a apron to put on a-gettin' dinner, and I
tried to make him let me pin it on his head. But says he, firmly:

"I hain't proud and haughty, Samantha, but I do feel above ridin' out with a pink apron on
for a hat."

"Wal, then," says I, "get as wet as sop, if you had ruther."

I didn't say no more, but there we jest sot and suffered. The rain poured down; the wind howled
at us; the old mare went slow; the rheumatiz laid holt of both of us; and the thought of the
new bonnet and dress was a-wearin' on Josiah, I knew.

There wasn't a house for the first seven miles, and after we got there I thought we wouldn't
go in, for we had got to get home to milk anyway, and we was both as wet as we could be. After
I had beset him about the apron, we didn't say hardly a word for as much as thirteen miles
or so; but I did speak once, as he leaned forward, with the rain drippin' offen his bandanna
handkerchief onto his blue pantaloons. I says to him in stern tones:

"Is this pleasure, Josiah Allen?"

He give the old mare a awful cut and says he: "I'd like to know what you want to be so aggravatin'
for?"

I didn't multiply any more words with him, only as we drove up to our doorstep, and he helped
me out into a mud-puddle, I says to him:

"Mebbe you'll hear to me another time, Josiah Allen."

And I'll bet he will. I hain't afraid to bet a ten-cent bill that that man won't never open
his mouth to me again about a pleasure exertion.

       *       *       *       *       *

A simple-hearted and truly devout country preacher, who had tasted but few of the drinks of
the world, took dinner with a high-toned family, where a glass of milk punch was quietly set
down by each plate. In silence and happiness this new Vicar of Wakefield quaffed his goblet,
and then added, "Madam, you should daily thank God for such a good cow."

EDMUND CLARENCE STEDMAN

THE DIAMOND WEDDING

  O Love! Love! Love! What times were those,
    Long ere the age of belles and beaux,
  And Brussels lace and silken hose,
  When, in the green Arcadian close,
  You married Psyche under the rose,
    With only the grass for bedding!
  Heart to heart, and hand to hand,
  You followed Nature's sweet command,
  Roaming lovingly through the land,
    Nor sighed for a Diamond Wedding.

  So have we read in classic Ovid,
  How Hero watched for her belovèd,
    Impassioned youth, Leander.
  She was the fairest of the fair,
  And wrapt him round with her golden hair,
  Whenever he landed cold and bare,
  With nothing to eat and nothing to wear,
    And wetter than any gander;
  For Love was Love, and better than money;
  The slyer the theft, the sweeter the honey;
  And kissing was clover, all the world over,
    Wherever Cupid might wander.

  So thousands of years have come and gone,
  And still the moon is shining on,
    Still Hymen's torch is lighted;
  And hitherto, in this land of the West,
  Most couples in love have thought it best
  To follow the ancient way of the rest,
    And quietly get united.

  But now, True Love, you're growing old--
  Bought and sold, with silver and gold,
    Like a house, or a horse and carriage!
              Midnight talks,
              Moonlight walks,
  The glance of the eye and sweetheart sigh,
  The shadowy haunts, with no one by,
    I do not wish to disparage;
              But every kiss
              Has a price for its bliss,
    In the modern code of marriage;
              And the compact sweet
              Is not complete
  Till the high contracting parties meet
    Before the altar of Mammon;
  And the bride must be led to a silver bower,
  Where pearls and rubies fall in a shower
    That would frighten Jupiter Ammon!

  "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may!"
  The Señor swore to carry the day,
  To capture the beautiful Princess May,
    With his battery of treasure;
  Velvet and lace she should not lack;
  Tiffany, Haughwout, Ball & Black,
  Genin and Stewart his suit should back,
    And come and go at her pleasure;
  Jet and lava--silver and gold----
  Garnets--emeralds rare to behold----
  Diamonds--sapphires--wealth untold----
  All were hers, to have and to hold:
    Enough to fill a peck measure!

  He didn't bring all his forces on
  At once, but like a crafty old Don,
  Who many a heart had fought and won,
    Kept bidding a little higher;
  And every time he made his bid,
  And what she said, and all they did----
                      'Twas written down,
                      For the good of the town,
  By Jeems, of The Daily Flyer.

  A coach and horses, you'd think, would buy
  For the Don an easy victory;
    But slowly our Princess yielded.
  A diamond necklace caught her eye,
  But a wreath of pearls first made her sigh.
  She knew the worth of each maiden glance,
  And, like young colts, that curvet and prance,
  She led the Don a deuce of a dance,
    In spite of the wealth he wielded.

  She stood such a fire of silks and laces,
  Jewels and gold dressing-cases,
  And ruby brooches, and jets and pearls,
  That every one of her dainty curls
  Brought the price of a hundred common girls;
    Folks thought the lass demented!
  But at last a wonderful diamond ring,
  An infant Kohinoor, did the thing,
  And, sighing with love, or something the same,
                      (What's in a name?)
    The Princess May consented.

  Ring! ring the bells, and bring
  The people to see the marrying!
  Let the gaunt and hungry and ragged poor
  Throng round the great cathedral door,
  To wonder what all the hubbub's for,
    And sometimes stupidly wonder
  At so much sunshine and brightness which
  Fall from the church upon the rich,
    While the poor get all the thunder.

  Ring, ring! merry bells, ring!
              O fortunate few,
              With letters blue,
  Good for a seat and a nearer view!
  Fortunate few, whom I dare not name;
  Dilettanti! Crême de la crême!
  We commoners stood by the street façade,
  And caught a glimpse of the cavalcade.
              We saw the bride
              In diamond pride,
  With jeweled maidens to guard her side----
  Six lustrous maidens in tarletan.
  She led the van of the caravan;
    Close behind her, her mother
  (Dressed in gorgeous moire antique,
  That told as plainly as words could speak,
  She was more antique than the other)
    Leaned on the arm of Don Rataplan
  Santa Claus de la Muscovado
  Señor Grandissimo Bastinado.
    Happy mortal! fortunate man!
  And Marquis of El Dorado!

  In they swept, all riches and grace,
  Silks and satins, jewels and lace;
  In they swept from the dazzled sun,
  And soon in the church the deed was done.
  Three prelates stood on the chancel high:
  A knot that gold and silver can buy,
  Gold and silver may yet untie,
    Unless it is tightly fastened;
  What's worth doing at all's worth doing well,
  And the sale of a young Manhattan belle
    Is not to be pushed or hastened;
  So two Very-Reverends graced the scene,
  And the tall Archbishop stood between,
    By prayer and fasting chastened.
  The Pope himself would have come from Rome,
  But Garibaldi kept him at home.
  Haply these robed prelates thought
  Their words were the power that tied the knot;
  But another power that love-knot tied,
  And I saw the chain round the neck of the bride----
  A glistening, priceless, marvelous chain,
  Coiled with diamonds again and again,
    As befits a diamond wedding;
  Yet still 'twas a chain, and I thought she knew it,
  And halfway longed for the will to undo it,
    By the secret tears she was shedding.

  But isn't it odd to think, whenever
  We all go through that terrible River----
  Whose sluggish tide alone can sever
  (The Archbishop says) the Church decree,
  By floating one in to Eternity
  And leaving the other alive as ever----
  As each wades through that ghastly stream,
  The satins that rustle and gems that gleam,
  Will grow pale and heavy, and sink away
  To the noisome River's bottom-clay!
  Ten to one, and I'll go it alone;
  Those most used to a rag and bone,
  Though here on earth they labor and groan,
  Will stand it best, as they wade abreast
    To the other side of Jordan.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Grant's army crossed the Rappahannock Lee's veterans felt sure of sending it back as "tattered
and torn" as ever it had been under the new general's numerous predecessors. After the crossing,
the first prisoners caught by Mosby were asked many questions by curious Confederates.

"What has become of your pontoon train?" said one such inquirer.

"We haven't got any," answered the prisoner.

"How do you expect to get over the river when you go back?"

"Oh," said the Yankee, "we are not going back. Grant says that all the men he sends back can
cross on a log."

       *       *       *       *       *

Old Gentleman (to driver of street-car): "My friend, what do you do with your wages every week--put
part of it in the savings bank?"

Driver: "No, sir. After payin' the butcher an' grocer an' rent, I pack away what's left in
barrels. I'm 'fraid of them savin's banks."

MUSIC BY THE CHOIR

After the church organist had played a voluntary, introducing airs from "1492" and "The Black
Crook"--which, of course, were not recognized by the congregation--the choir arose for its
first anthem of the morning.

The choir was made up of two parts, a quartette and a chorus. The former occupied seats in
the front row--because the members were paid. The chorus was grouped about, and made a somewhat
striking as well as startling picture. There were some who could sing; some who thought they
could; and there were others.

The leader of this aggregation was the tenor of the quartette. He was tall, but his neck was
responsible for considerable of his extreme height. Because he was paid to lead that choir
he gave the impression to those who saw him that he was cutting some ice. A greater part of
his contortions were lost because the audience did not face the choir.

The organist struck a few chords, and without any preliminary wood-sawing the choir squared
itself for action. Of course, there were a few who did not find the place till after rising--this
is so in all choirs--but finally all appeared to be ready. The leader let out another link
in his neck, and while his head was taking a motion similar to a hen's when walking, the choir
broke loose. This is what it sang:

"Abide-e-e--bide--ab--abide--with abide with--bide--a-a-a-a-bide--me--with me-e-e--abide with--with
me--fast--f-a-a-s-t falls--abide fast the even--fast fa-a-a-lls the--abide with me--eventide--falls
the e-e-eventide--fast--the--the dark--the darkness abide--the darkness deepens--Lor-r-d with
me-e-e--Lord with me--deepens--Lord--Lord--darkness deepens--wi-i-th me--Lord with me--me a-a-a-a-abide."

That was the first verse.

There were three others.

Every one is familiar with the hymn, hence it is not necessary to line the verses.

During the performance, some who had not attended the choir rehearsal the Thursday evening
previous were a little slow in spots. During the passage of these spots some would move their
lips and not utter a sound, while others--particularly the ladies--found it convenient to feel
of their back hair or straighten their hats. Each one who did this had a look as if she could
honestly say, "I could sing that if I saw fit"--and the choir sang on.

But when there came a note, a measure or a bar with which all were familiar, what a grand volume
of music burst forth. It didn't happen this way many times, because the paid singers were supposed
to do the greater part of the work. And the others were willing.

At one point, after a breathing spell--or a rest, as musicians say--the tenor started alone.
He didn't mean to. But by this break the deacons discovered that he was in the game and earning
his salary. The others caught him at the first quarter, however, and away they went again,
neck and neck. Before they finished, several had changed places. Sometimes "Abide" was ahead,
and sometimes "Lord," but on the whole it was a pretty even thing.

Then the minister--he drew a salary, also--read something out of the Bible, after which--as
they say in the newspapers--"there was another well-rendered selection by the choir."

This spasm was a tenor solo with chorus accompaniment. This was when he of the long neck got
in his deadly work. The audience faced the choir and the salaried soloist was happy.

When the huddling had ceased, the soloist stepped a trifle to the front and, with the confidence
born of a man who stands pat on four aces, gave a majestic sweep of his head toward the organist.
He said nothing, but the movement implied, "Let 'er go, Gallagher."

Gallagher was on deck and after getting his patent leather shoes well braced on the sub-bass
pedals, he knotted together a few chords, and the soloist was off. His selection was--that
is, verbatim,

  "Ge-yide me, ge-yide me, ge-yide me, O-,
    Thor-or gra-ut Jaw-aw-hars-vah,
  Pi-il-grum thraw-aw this baw-aw-raw-en larnd."

And he sang other things.

He was away up in G. He diminuendoed, struck a cantable movement, slid up over a crescendo,
tackled a second ending by mistake--but it went--caught his second wind on a moderato, signified
his desire for a raise in salary on a trill, did some brilliant work on a maestoso, reached
high C with ease, went down into the bass clef and climbed out again, quavered and held, did
sixteen notes by the handful--payable on demand--waltzed along a minor passage, gracefully
turned the dal segno, skipped a chromatic run, did the con expressione act worthy of a De Reszke,
poured forth volumes on a measure bold, broke the centre of an andante passage for three yards,
retarded to beat the band, came near getting applause on a cadenza, took a six-barred triplet
without turning a hair--then sat down.

Between whiles the chorus had been singing something else. The notes bumped against the oiled
natural-wood rafters--it was a modern church--ricochetted over the memorial windows, clung
lovingly to the new $200 chandelier, floated along the ridgepole, patted the bald-headed deacons
fondly, and finally died away in a bunch of contribution boxes in the corner.

Then the minister preached.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Chicago man who has recently returned from Europe was asked by a friend what he thought of Rome.

"Well," he replied, "Rome is a fair-sized town, but I couldn't help but think when I was there
that she had seen her best days."

