The turf history of Carolina began (according to the "South Carolina Gazette," dated February
1, 1734) in that same year, on the first Tuesday in February. One of the prizes was a saddle
and bridle valued at £20. The riders were white men and the course was a green at Charleston
Neck, near where the lower depot of the South Carolina Railroad now stands. In a "History of
the Turf in South Carolina," which I found in the library, I learned that Mr. Daniel Ravenel
bred fine horses on his plantation, Wantoot, in St. John's Parish, as early as 1761, that Mr.
Frank Huger had imported an Arabian horse, and that many other gentlemen were importing British
running horses, and were engaged in breeding. The book refers to the old York Course, later
called the New Market Course. A long search did not, however, enable me to establish the date
on which the Jockey Club was founded. It was clearly a going institution in 1792, for under
date of Wednesday, February 15, in that year, I found the record of a race for the Jockey Club
Purse--"four mile-heats--weight for age--won by Mr. Lynch's Foxhunter, after a well contested
race of four heats, beating Mr. Sumter's Ugly, who won the first heat; Col. Washington's Rosetta,
who won the second heat; Capt. Alston's Betsy Baker," etc., etc.

The Civil War practically ended the Jockey Club, though a feeble effort was, for a time, made
to carry it on. In 1900 the club properties and the funds remaining in the club treasury were
transferred as an endowment to the Charleston Library Society. The proceeds from this endowment
add to the library's income by about two thousand dollars annually. Other items of interest
in connection with the Carolina Jockey Club are that Episcopal Church conventions used to be
held in Charleston during the racing season, so that the attending parsons might take in the
races; that the Jockey Club Ball used to be the great ball of the Charleston season, as the
second St. Cecilia Ball became later and now is; that the Charleston Club, a most delightful
club, founded in 1852, was an outgrowth of the Jockey Club; and that the Jockey Club's old
Sherries, Ports and Madeiras went to New York where they were purchased by Delmonico--among
them a Calderon de la Barca Madeira of 1848, and a Peter Domecq Sherry of 1818.

Mr. S.A. Nies, one of the old employees of Delmonico's, tells me that the Calderon de la Barca
of the above mentioned year is all gone, but that Delmonico's still has a few bottles of the
same wine of the vintage of 1851.

"This wine," Mr. Nies said, "is listed on our wine card at $6.00 per bottle. It is not the
best Madeira that we have, although it is a very fine one. Recently we served a bottle of Thompson's
Auction Madeira, of which the year is not recognizable on the label, but which to my knowledge
was an old wine forty years ago. This wine brought $25.00 a bottle and was worth it.

"The Peter Domecq Sherry of 1818 does not figure on our wine list as we have but a few bottles
left. It is $20.00 a bottle.

"The prices brought to-day by old Madeiras and Sherries do not represent their real values.
One has but to look at the compound interest of savings banks to realize that these wines should
be selling at four times the price they are; but unfortunately, since the advent of Scotch
whisky in the American market, the American palate seems to have deteriorated, and if the wines
were listed at the price they ought to bring, we could not sell them. As it is, the demand
for the very rare old wines is irregular and infrequent. We keep them principally to preserve
our reputation; not for the money there is in it."

CHAPTER XXIX

HISTORY AND ARISTOCRACY

    The cool shade of aristocracy....

    --SIR W.F.P. NAPIER.

Just now, when we are being unpleasantly awakened to the fact that our vaunted American melting-pot
has not been doing its work; when some of us are perhaps wondering whether the quality of metal
produced by the crucible will ever be of the best; it is comforting to reflect that a city
whose history, traditions and great names are so completely involved with Americanism in its
highest forms, a city we think of as ultra-American, is peculiarly a melting-pot product.

The original Charleston colonists were English and Irish, sent out under Colonel Sayle, in
1669, by the Lords Proprietors, to whom Charles II had granted a tract of land in the New World,
embracing the present States of Georgia and North and South Carolina. These colonists touched
at Port Royal--where the Marine Barracks now are (and ought not to be)--but settled on the
west side of the Ashley River, across from where Charleston stands. It was not until 1680 that
they transferred their settlement to the present site of the city, naming the place Charles
Town in honor of the King. In 1671 the colony contained 263 men able to bear arms, 69 women
and 59 children. In 1674, when New York was taken by the English from the Dutch, a number of
the latter moved down to the Carolina colony. French Protestants had, at that time, already
begun to arrive, and more came after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, in 1685. In 1680
Germans came. By 1684 there were four Huguenot settlements in Carolina. In 1696 a Quaker was
governor for a short time, and in the same year a body of New Englanders arrived from Dorchester,
Massachusetts, establishing a town which they called Dorchester, near the present town of Summerville,
a few miles from Charleston. At that time a number of Scottish immigrants had already arrived,
though more came in 1715 and 1745, after the defeat of the Highlanders. From 1730 to 1750 new
colonists came from Switzerland, Holland and Germany. As early as 1740 there were several Jewish
families in Charleston, and some of the oldest and most respected Jewish families in the United
States still reside there. Also, when the English drove the Acadians from Canada in 1755, twelve
hundred of them immigrated to Carolina. By 1790, then, the city had a population of a little
more than 15,000, which was about half the number of inhabitants then contained in the city
of New York. In the case of Charleston, however, more than one half her people, at that time,
were negroes, slavery having been introduced by Sir John Yeamans, an early British governor.
By 1850 the city had about 20,000 white citizens and 23,000 blacks, and by 1880 some 7,500
more, of which additional number two thirds were negroes. The present population is estimated
at 65,000, which makes Charleston a place of about the size of Rockford, Illinois, Sioux City,
Iowa, or Covington, Kentucky; but as, in the case of Charleston, more than half this number
is colored, Charleston is, if the white population only is considered, a place of approximately
30,000 inhabitants, or, roughly speaking, about the size of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., or Colorado
Springs, Colorado.

In area, also, Charleston is small, covering less than four square miles. This is due to the
position of the city on a peninsula formed by the convergence and confluence of the Ashley
and Cooper Rivers, which meet at Charleston's beautiful Battery precisely as the Hudson River
and the East River meet at the Battery in New York. The shape of Charleston, indeed, greatly
resembles that of Manhattan Island, and though her harbor and her rivers are neither so large
nor so deep as those of the port of New York, they are altogether adequate to a considerable
maritime activity.

The Charleston Chamber of Commerce (which, like everything else in Charleston dates from long
ago, having been founded in 1748) quotes President Taft as calling this port the most convenient
one to Panama--a statement which the New Orleans Chamber of Commerce is in position to dispute.
The fact remains, however, that Charleston's position on the map justifies the Chamber of Commerce's
alliterative designation of the place as "The Plumb-line Port to Panama." This is so true that
if Charleston should one day be shaken loose from its moorings by an earthquake--something
not unknown there--and should fall due south upon the map, it would choke up the mouth of the
Canal, were not Cuba interposed, to catch the debris.

Before the Civil War, Charleston was the greatest cotton shipping port of the country, and
it still handles large amounts of cotton and rice. Until a few years ago South Carolina was
the chief rice producing State in the Union, and history records that the first rice planted
in the Carolinas, if not in the country, was secured and sown by an early governor of Carolina,
Thomas Smith, who died in 1694. It may be noted in passing that this Thomas Smith bore the
title "Landgrave," the Lords Proprietors, in their plan of government for the colony--which,
by the way, was drawn up by the philosopher Locke--having provided for a colonial nobility
with titles. The titles "Baron" and "Landgrave" were hereditary in several Charleston families,
and constitute, so far as I know, the only purely American titles of nobility that ever existed.
Descendants of the old Landgraves still reside in Charleston, and in at least one instance
continue to use the word "Landgrave" in connection with the family name.

The prosperity of Charleston since the Civil War has depended more, perhaps, than on any other
single product, upon the trade in phosphate, large deposits of which underlie this region.

The real wonder of Charleston, the importance of the place among American cities, cannot, however,
be said to have resulted primarily from commerce (though her commerce is growing), or from
greatness of population (though Charleston is the metropolis of the Carolinas), but is involved
with matters of history, tradition and beauty. The mantle of greatness was assumed by this
city in colonial times, and has never been laid aside. Among the most distinguished early Americans
were many Charlestonians, and in not a few instances the old blood still endures there, and
even the old names: such names as Washington, Pinckney, Bull, Pringle, Rutledge, Middleton,
Drayton, Alston, Huger, Agassiz, Ravenel, Izard, Gadsden, Rhett, Calhoun, Read, De Saussure,
Lamar and Brawley, to mention but a few.

       *       *       *       *       *

Charleston's early history is rich in pirate stories of the most thrilling moving-picture variety.
Blackbeard, Stede Bonnet and other disciples of the Jolly Roger preyed upon Charleston shipping.
Bonnet once held a Mr. Samuel Wragg of Charleston prisoner aboard his ship threatening to send
his head to the city unless the unfortunate man should be ransomed--the demand being for medicines
of various kinds. Colonel Rhett, of Charleston, captured Bonnet and his ship after a savage
fight, but Bonnet soon after escaped from the city in woman's clothing. Still later he was
retaken, hanged, as he deserved to be, and buried along with forty of his band at a point now
covered by the Battery Garden, that exquisite little park at the tip of the city, which is
the favorite promenade of Charlestonians. In another fight which occurred just off Charleston
bar, a crew of citizens under Governor Robert Johnson defeated the pirate Richard Worley, who
was killed in the action, and captured his ship, which, when the hatches were opened proved
to be full of prisoners, thirty-six of them women. Even as late as the period of the War of
1812--a war which did not affect Charleston save in the way of destroying her shipping and
causing poverty and distress--a case of brutal piracy is recorded. The daughter of Aaron Burr,
Theodosia by name, was married to Governor Joseph Alston. After her father's trial for high
treason, when he was disgraced and broken, she tried to comfort him, for the two were peculiarly
devoted. Intending to visit him she set sail from Charleston for New York in a ship which was
never heard from again. Somewhere I have read a description of the distraught father's long
vigils at New York, where he would stand gazing out to sea long after all hope had been abandoned
by others. Mrs. St. Julien Ravenel tells us in her charming book, that thirty years later an
old sailor, dying in a village of the North Carolina coast, confessed that he had been one
of a pirate crew which had captured the ship and compelled the passengers to walk the plank.
This story is also given by Charles Gayarré, who says the pirate chief was none other than
Dominick You, who fought under Jackson at the Battle of New Orleans, and is buried in that
city. The husband and father of Mrs. Alston were spared the ghastly tale, Mrs. Ravenel says,
since both were already in their graves when the sailor's deathbed confession solved the mystery.

In the Revolution, Charleston played an important part. Men of Charleston were, of course,
among the signers of the Declaration of Independence. Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, who gave
us the immortal maxim: "Millions for defense, but not one cent for tribute!" who was on Washington's
staff, was later Ambassador to France and president-general of the Sons of the Cincinnati,
was a Charlestonian of the Charlestonians, and lies buried in St. Michael's. Such Revolutionary
names as Marion, Laurens, William Washington, Greene, Hampton, Moultrie and Sumter are associated
with the place, and two of these are reëchoed in the names of those famous forts in Charleston
harbor on which attention was fixed at the outbreak of the Civil War: Moultrie and Sumter--the
latter, target for the first shot fired in the conflict.

Nearly thirty years before the Civil War, Charleston had distinguished herself in the arts
of peace by producing the first locomotive tried in the United States, and by constructing
the first consecutive hundred miles of railroad ever built in the world, and now, with the
War, she distinguished herself by initiating other mechanical devices of very different character--a
semi-submersible torpedo boat and the first submarine to torpedo a hostile war vessel. True,
David Bushnell of Connecticut did construct a crude sort of submarine during the Revolutionary
War, and succeeded in getting under a British ship with the machine, but he was unable to fasten
his charge of powder and his effort consequently failed. Robert Fulton also experimented with
submarines, or "plunging boats" as he called them, and was encouraged for a time by Napoleon
I. The little David of the Confederate navy is sometimes referred to as the first submarine
but the David was not actually an underwater boat, but a torpedo boat which could run awash,
with her funnels and upper works slightly out of water. She was a cigar-shaped vessel thirty-three
feet long, built of wood, propelled by steam, and carrying her torpedo on a pole, forward.
Dr. St. Julien Ravenel of Charleston and Captain Theodore Stoney devised the craft, and she
was built by funds subscribed by Charleston merchants. In command of Lieutenant W.T. Glassell,
C.S.N., and with three other men aboard, she torpedoed the United States ship New Ironsides,
flagship of the fleet blockading Charleston. The New Ironsides was crippled, but not lost.
After this United States vessels blockading Charleston protected themselves with booms. This
resulted in the construction of an actual undersea torpedo boat, the Hunley. This extraordinary
vessel has been spoken of as having had the appearance of a huge iron coffin, as well as the
attributes of one, for she proved a death-trap for successive crews on three trial trips. As
there were no electric motors or gasoline engines in those days, she was run by hand, eight
men crowded together turning a crank-shaft which operated her propeller. After repeated sinkings,
she was raised, manned by new men, and sent forth again. Finally, in Charleston harbor she
succeeded in destroying the United States man-o'-war Housatonic, but at the same time went
down, herself, drowning or suffocating all on board. A memorial drinking fountain on the Battery,
at the foot of Meeting Street, commemorates "the men of the Confederate Army and Navy, first
in marine warfare to employ torpedo boats--1863-1865." On this memorial are given the names
of sixteen men who perished in torpedo attacks on the blockading fleet, among them Horace L.
Hunley, set down as inventor of the submarine boat. The names of fourteen others who were lost
are unknown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord William Campbell, younger son of the Duke of Argyll, was British governor at Charleston
when the Revolution broke out. He had married a Miss Izard, of Charleston, who brought him
a dowry of fifty thousand pounds, a large sum in those times. Their home was in a famous old
house which stands on Meeting Street, and it was from the back yard of this house that Lord
William fled in a rowboat to a British man-o'-war, when it became evident that Charleston was
no longer hospitable to representatives of the Crown. Later his wife followed him to Great
Britain, where they remained.

The Pringle House, as it is now called, formerly the Brewton house, perhaps the most superb
old residence in the city, was the headquarters of General Sir Henry Clinton, after he had
captured Charleston, and was the residence of Lord Rawdon, the unpleasant British commander
who succeeded Clinton. Cornwallis lived outside the town at Drayton Hall, which still stands,
on the Ashley River. After his capture Cornwallis was exchanged for Henry Laurens, a distinguished
Charlestonian, who, though he wept over the Declaration of Independence, was before long president
of the Continental Congress, and later went to France, where he was associated with Benjamin
Franklin, John Jay and John Adams in negotiating the treaty of peace and independence for America.

Mrs. Ravenel says in her book that Sherman destroyed all but one of the superb old houses on
the Ashley River, and when we consider that Sherman's troops invested Charleston just before
the end of the War, and reflect upon the general's notorious "carelessness with fire," we have
cause for national rejoicing that Charleston, with its unmatched buildings and their splendid
contents, was not laid in ashes, as were Atlanta and Columbia. Had Sherman burned Charleston
it would be hard for even a Yankee to forgive him.

Even without the aid of the Northern general, the city has been able to furnish disastrous
conflagrations of her own, over a period of two centuries and more, and I find in the quaint
reminiscences of Charles Fraser, already alluded to, a lamentation that, because of fires,
many of the old landmarks have disappeared, and the city is "losing its look of picturesque
antiquity." To make matters worse, there came, in 1886, an earthquake, rendering seven eighths
of the houses uninhabitable until repairs aggregating some millions of dollars had been made.
Up to the time of the earthquake the old mansion from which Lord William Campbell fled at the
beginning of the Revolution, was adorned by a battlemented roof. It is recorded that when the
shock came, an Englishman was in the house, and that in his eagerness to get outdoors he pushed
others aside. As he reached the front steps, however, the battlements came crashing down. He
was the one person from that house who perished, and his only monument is the patch of comparatively
new stone where the broken steps have been repaired.

       *       *       *       *       *

My companion and I achieved entrance to one of the famous old Charleston houses which we had
been particularly anxious to see, through the kindness of a lady to whom we had a letter of
introduction, who happened to be a relative of the owner of the house.

It seems necessary to explain, at this juncture, that in Charleston, many proper names of foreign
origin have been corrupted in pronunciation. A few examples will suffice: The Dutch name Vanderhorst,
conspicuous in the early annals of the city, has come to be pronounced "Van-Dross"; Legaré,
the name of another distinguished old family, commemorated in the name of Legaré Street, is
pronounced "Legree"; De Saussure has become "Dess-a-sore," with the accent on the first syllable,
and Prioleau is called "Pray-low."

I was unaware of these matters when my companion and I visited the ancient house I speak of.
Though I had heard the name of the proprietor of the mansion spoken many times, and recognized
it as a distinguished Charleston name, I had never seen it written; however, without having
given the matter much thought, I had, unfortunately, reached my own conclusions as to how it
was spelled. Still more unfortunately, while I was delighting in the drawing-room of that wonderful
old house, with the portraits of ladies in powdered hair and men in cocked hats and periwigs
looking down upon me from the walls, I was impelled to reassure myself as to the spelling of
the name. Let us assume that the name sounded like "Bowfee." That was not it but it will suffice
for illustration.

"I suppose," I said to our charming cicerone, "that the family name is spelled 'B-o-w-f-e-e'?"

I had no sooner spoken than I realized, with a sudden access of horror what I had done. In
guessing I had sinned, but in guessing wrong I had ruined myself. All this came to me instantly
and positively, as by a psychic message of unparalleled definiteness from the dead ancestors
whose portraits hung upon the paneling. It was as though they had joined in a great ghostly
shout of execration, which was the more awful because it was a silent shout that jarred upon
the senses rather than the ear drums. Then, before the lady replied, while the sound of my
own voice saying "B-o-w-f-e-e" seemed to reverberate through the apartment, I suddenly comprehended
the spirit of Charleston: understood that, compared with Charleston, Boston is as a rough mining
camp, while New York hardly exists at all, being a mere miasma of vulgarity.

There was a long silence, in which the lady to whom I had spoken gazed from the window at the
rainy twilight. Her silence, I am persuaded, was not intended to rebuke me; she was not desirous
of crushing me; she was merely stunned. Indeed, when at last she spoke, there was in her tone
something of gentleness.

"The name," she said, "is Beaufoy--B-e-a-u-f-o-y. It is of Huguenot origin."

Passionately I wished for an earthquake--one that might cause the floor to open beneath me,
or the roof to fall through and blot me from her sight. How to get away?--that was my one thought.
To cover my embarrassment, I tried to make small-talk about a medallion of an Emperor of France,
which hung upon the paneling. The lady said it had been given to an ancestor of the Beaufoys
by the Emperor himself. That, for some reason, seemed to make things rather worse. I wished
I had not dragged the Emperor into the conversation.

"It is getting dark," I said. "It is time we were going."

This the lady did not dispute.

Of our actual farewells and exit from that house, I remember not a detail, save that, as we
departed, I knew that we should never see this lady again; that for her I no longer existed,
and that in my downfall I had dragged my companion with me. The next thing I definitely recollect
is walking swiftly up Meeting Street beside him, in the rain and darkness of late afternoon.
All the way back to the hotel we strode side by side in pregnant silence; neither did we speak
as we ascended to our rooms.

Some time later, while I was dressing for dinner, he entered my bedchamber. At the moment,
as it happened, I was putting cuff-links into a dress shirt. With this task I busied myself,
dreading to look up. In the meantime I felt his eyes fixed upon me. When the links were in,
I delayed meeting his gaze by buttoning the little button in one sleeve-vent, above the cuff.

"Do you mean to say you button those idiotic little buttons?" he demanded. "I didn't know that
anybody ever did that!"

"I don't always," I answered apologetically.

"I should hope not!" he returned. Then he continued: "Do you remember where we are to be taken
to-morrow?"

"Yes," I said. "To the Pringle house."

"Well," said he, "I just came in to ask you, as a favor, not to get off any fanciful ideas
that you may have thought up, about the way to spell Pringle."

CHAPTER XXX

POLITICS, A NEWSPAPER AND ST. CECILIA

Charleston is very definitely a part of South Carolina. That is not always the case with a
State and its chief city. It is not the case with the State and the City of New York. New York
City has about the same relation to New York State as a goldpiece has to a large table-top
on one corner of which it lies. Charleston, on the other hand, harmonizes into its state setting,
as a beautiful ancient vase harmonizes into the setting afforded by some rare old cabinet.
Moreover, Charleston's individuality amongst cities is more or less duplicated in South Carolina's
individuality amongst States. South Carolina is a State as definitely marked--though in altogether
different ways--as Kansas or California. It is a State that does nothing by halves. It has
rattlesnakes larger and more venomous than other rattlesnakes, and it has twice had the disgraceful
Cole Blease, otherwise "To-hell-with-the-Constitution" Blease, as governor. For senator it
has the old war-horse Tillman, a man so admired for his power that, in our easy-going way,
we almost forgive his dives into the pork-barrel. Tillman has been to South Carolina more or
less what the late Senator Hale was to his section of New England. Hale grabbed a navy yard
for Kittery, Maine (the Portsmouth yard), where there never should have been a navy yard; Tillman
performed a like service, under like circumstances, for Charleston. Both are purely political
yards. Naval officers opposed them, but were overridden by politicians, as so often happens.
For in time of peace the army and the navy are political footballs, and it is only when war
comes that the politicians cease kicking them about and cry: "Now, football, turn into a cannon-ball,
and save your country and your country's flag!" For obviously, if the flag cannot be saved,
the politicians will be without a "starry banner" to gesture at and roar about.

Now, of course, with war upon us, any navy yard is a blessing, and the Charleston yard is being
used, as it should be, to the utmost. But in time of peace the yard comes in for much criticism
from the navy, the contention being that it is not favorably located from a strategic point
of view, and that, owing to bars in the Cooper River, up which it is situated, it cannot be
entered by large ships. The point is also made that while labor is cheaper at this yard than
at any other, skilled metal-workers are hard to get. Friends of the yard contend, upon the
other hand, that it is desirable because of its convenience to the Caribbean Sea, where, according
to naval theory, this country will some day have to fight a battle in defense of the Panama
Canal. The Pensacola yard, it is pointed out, is exposed and can be bombarded, whereas the
Charleston yard is far enough inland to be safe from sea attack. As to the channel, it is navigable
for destroyers and other small craft--though whether it would be so to a large destroyer which
had been injured and was drawing more water than usual, I do not know. The practical situation
of the navy, with regard to this and some of the other political yards, is like that of some
man who has been left a lot of heterogeneous houses, scattered about town, none of them suited
to his purposes, and who is obliged to scatter his family amongst them as best he can, or else
abandon them and build a new house. We have been following the former course, and are only
now preparing to adopt the latter, by establishing a naval base at Norfolk, as mentioned in
an earlier chapter.

Charleston politics have been peculiar. Until a few years ago the government of the city had
long rested in the hands of a few old families, among them the Gadsdens and the Rhetts. The
overthrow of this ancient and aristocratic rule by the election to the mayoralty of John P.
Grace, an alleged "friend of the people," was spoken of by the New York "Sun," as being not
a mere change in municipal government, but the fall of a dynasty which had controlled the city
politically, financially and socially for a century and a half. Mr. Grace may be dismissed
with the remark that he supported Blease and that he is editor of the recently founded Charleston
"American," which I have heard called a Hearst newspaper, and which certainly wears the Hearst
look about it.

On January 19, 1917, this newspaper printed a full account of the ball of the St. Cecilia Society,
Charleston's most sacred social organization. Never before in the history of the St. Cecilia
Society, covering a period of a century and a half, had an account of one of its balls, and
the names of those attending, been printed. The publication caused a great stir in the city
and resulted in an editorial, said to have been written by Grace, which appeared next day,
and which reveals something of Charleston tradition and something of Grace, as well. It was
headed "The Saint Cecilia Ball," and ran as follows:

     We carried on yesterday a full account of the famous Saint Cecilia
     Ball. From the foundation of Charleston until the present moment it
     has been regarded as an unwritten law that the annual events of
     this ancient society shall not be touched upon.

     Of course it was permissible for the thirty-five thousand poor
     white people of Charleston to talk about the Saint Cecilia, and to
     indulge in the thrilling sensation that comes to the proverbial cat
     when she looks at a queen. Some of them, moved by curiosity, even
     ventured within half a block of the Hibernian Hall to observe from
     afar the gay festivities.

     The press being forbidden to cover Saint Cecilia events, there grew
     up in the vulgar mind weird stories of what went on behind the
     scenes. While the Saint Cecilia has enjoyed the happy privilege of
     journalistic silence, it has, therefore, correspondingly suffered
     on the tongue of gossip. The truth is that we always knew that the
     Saint Cecilia was just about the same as every other social
     collection of human beings--a little gaiety flavored with a little
     frivolity; nothing more, nothing less.

     There was a time when this society was the extreme limit of social
     exclusiveness. It was an anachronism on American soil, a matter of
     pure heredity, the right to membership in which was as fixed as
     Median law, but transcendently above the median line. Now, however,
     since the society, in keeping with the spirit of the age, has
     relaxed its rules to admit from year to year (if, indeed, only a
     few now and then) members whose blood is far from indigo, we think
     it perfectly legitimate for the newspaper, which represents ALL
     classes of people, to invade the quondam sanctity of its functions
     which are now being OPENED to all classes.

Following this, the editorial quoted from Don Seitz's book, telling how the elder James Gordon
Bennett was in the habit of mocking "events to which he was not invited," and how, in 1840,
he managed to get one of his reporters into "Henry I Brevoort's fancy dress ball, the social
event of the period." The quotation from Mr. Seitz's book ends with the following: "A far cry
from this to 1894, when Ward McAlister, arbiter of the '400' at Mrs. Astor's famous ball, became
a leader on social topics for the New York 'World.' It took many years for this umbrage at
the reporting of social events to wear off and make the reporter welcome. Indeed, there is
one place yet on the map where it is not even now permitted to record a social event, though
the editors and owners of papers may be among those present. That is Charleston, South Carolina...."

The Charleston editor then resumes his own reflections in this wise:

     We regret to say, and it is the regret of our life, that we were
     not one of the editors present at the Saint Cecilia. This,
     therefore, relieves us of the implied condition to adhere any
     longer to this silly and absurd custom which, in the language of
     this great newspaper man, has made its last stand "on the map" at
     Charleston. We are glad that we have forever nailed, in the opinion
     of one hundred million ordinary people who make the American
     nation, the absurdity that there is any social event so sacred, any
     people so DIFFERENT from the rest of us poor human beings, that we
     dare not speak of them.

Just why private social events should be, as Mr. Grace seems to assume, particularly the property
of the press, it is somewhat difficult to explain, unless we do so by accepting as fundamental
the theory that the press is justified in invading personal privacy purely in order to pander,
on the one hand to the new breed of vulgar rich which thrives on "publicity," and on the other,
to the breed of vulgar poor which enjoys reading that supremest of American inanities, the
"society page."

What Mr. Seitz said in his book as to the reticence of Charleston newspapers, where society
is concerned, is, however, generally true--amazingly so to one who has become hardened to the
attitude of the metropolitan press elsewhere. The society columns of Charleston papers hardly
ever print the names of the city's real aristocrats, and in the past they have gone much farther
than this, for they have been known to suppress important news stories in which prominent citizens
were unpleasantly involved. It may be added that earthquakes are evidently classed as members
of the aristocracy, since occasional tremors felt in the city are pointedly ignored by the
press. Whether or not the paper edited by the fearless Mr. Grace ignores these manifestations
I am unable to say. One can easily fancy his taking a courageous stand on such a subject as
well as upon social matters. Indeed, with a few slight changes, his editorial upon the St.
Cecilia ball, might be made to serve equally well after an earthquake shock. He might say:

     The press being forbidden to cover earthquakes, there grew up in
     the vulgar mind weird stories of what went on behind the scenes.

But of course, where the editor of such a paper is concerned, there is always the element of
natural delicacy and nicety of feeling to be considered. Mr. Grace felt that because he was
not present at the St. Cecilia ball, he was free to print things about it. An earthquake would
not be like the St. Cecilia Society--it would not draw the line at Mr. Grace. At a Charleston
earthquake he would undoubtedly be present. The question therefore arises: Having been PRESENT,
might his AMOUR PROPRE make him feel that to REPORT the event would not be altogether in GOOD
TASTE?

The St. Cecilia Society began in 1737 with a concert given on St. Cecilia's day, and continued
for many years to give concerts at which the musicians were both amateurs and professionals.
Josiah Quincy, in his "Journal," tells of having attended one of these concerts in 1773, and
speaks of the richness of the men's apparel, noting that there were "many with swords on."

When, in 1819, difficulty was experienced in obtaining performers, it was proposed that a ball
be held in place of a concert, and by 1822 the society was definitely transformed from a musical
to a dancing organization, which it has remained ever since.

The statement in the "American" editorial that St. Cecilia balls have been the subject of scandalous
gossip is, I believe, quite false, as is also the statement that the balls are now "being opened
to all classes."

Mrs. Ravenel in her book tells how the organization is run. Members are elected, and all are
men, though the names of the ladies of a member's household are placed on the club list. "Only
death or removal from the city erases them--change of fortune affects them not at all." A man
whose progenitors have belonged to the society is almost certain of election, though there
have been cases in which undesirables of good family have been blackballed. Two blackballs
are sufficient to cause the rejection of a candidate. Men who are not of old Charleston stock
are carefully investigated before they can be elected, but of late years not a few such, having
been considered desirable, have become members. The members elect officers and a board of managers,
and these have entire control of the society. Three balls are given each year, one in January
and two in February. Until a few years ago the hall in which the balls are given was lighted
by innumerable candelabra; only lately has electricity been used. The society owns its own
plate, damask, china and glassware, and used to own a good stock of wines. Of late years, I
believe, wines have not been served, the beverage of the evening consisting of coffee, hot
and iced. The greatest decorum is observed at the balls. Young ladies go invariably with chaperones;
following each dance there is a brief promenade, whereafter the young ladies are returned to
their duennas--who, if they be Charleston dowagers in perfection, usually carry turkey-feather
fans. Cards are filled months in advance. As lately as the year 1912 every other dance was
a square dance; since then, however, I believe that square dances have gone the way of candle-light.
The society has an endowment and membership is inexpensive, costing but fifteen dollars a year,
including the three balls. This enables young men starting in life to be members without going
into extravagance, and is in accord with the best social tradition of Charleston, where the
difference between an aristocracy and a plutocracy is well understood. Most of the rules of
the organization are unwritten. One is that men shall not smoke on the premises during a ball;
another is that divorced persons shall not be members or guests of the society. In this respect
the St. Cecilia Society may be said, in effect, to be applying, socially, the South Carolina
law; for South Carolina is the only State in the Union in which divorces are not granted for
any cause whatsoever.

This reminds me that the State has an anti-tipping law. The Pullman porter is required to hang
up copies of the law in his car when it enters South Carolina, and copies of it are displayed
on the doors of hotel bedrooms. The penalty for giving or receiving a tip is a fine of from
ten to one hundred dollars, or thirty days in jail. Perhaps the law is observed. I know, at
least, that no one offered me a tip while I was in that State.

       *       *       *       *       *

The old grandees of Charleston were usually sent to Oxford or Cambridge for an education and
English tradition still remains, I fancy, the foundation for what Charleston social life is
to-day. I thought at first that Charlestonians spoke like the English, but later came to the
conclusion that there is in the pronunciation of some of them a quality resembling a very faint
brogue--a brogue such as might be possessed by a cultivated Irishman who had moved to England
in his boyhood, and had been educated there. The "vanishing y" of tidewater Virginia is also
used by some Charlestonians, I am told, though I do not remember hearing it.

Generalizations on the subject of dialectic peculiarities are dangerous, as I have good reason
to know. Naturally, not all Charlestonians speak alike. I should say, however, that the first
a in the words "Papa" and "Mama" is frequently given a short sound, as a in "hat"; also that
many one-syllable words are strung out into two. For instance, "eight" is heard as "ay-et"
("ay" as in "gray"); "where" as "whey-uh," or "way-uh," and "hair" as "hay-uh." "Why?" sometimes
sounds like "Woi?" Such words as "calm" and "palm" are sometimes given the short a: "cam" and
"pam"--which, of course, occurs elsewhere, too. The name "Ralph" is pronounced as "Rafe" (a
as in "rate")--which I believe is Old English; and the names "Saunders" and "Sanders" are pronounced
exactly alike, both being called "Sanders." Tomatoes are sometimes called "tomatters." Two
dishes I never heard of before are "Hopping John," which is rice cooked with peas, and "Limping
Kate," which is some other rice combination. What we, in the North, call an "ice-cream freezer"
becomes in Charleston an "ice-cream churn." "Good morning" is the salutation up to three P.M.,
whereas in other parts of the South "Good evening" is said for the Northern "Good afternoon."
Charlestonians speak of being "parrot-toed"--not "pigeon-toed." Where, in the North, we would
ask a friend, "How are things out your way?" a Charlestonian may inquire, "How are things out
your side?" The expression "going out" means to go to St. Cecilia Balls, and I have been told
that it is never used in any other way. That is, if a lady is asked: "Are you going out this
winter?" it means definitely, "Are you going to the St. Cecilia balls?" If you heard it said
that some one was "on Mount Pleasant," you might suppose that Mount Pleasant was an island;
but it is not; it is a village on the mainland across the Cooper River. And what is to me one
of the most curious expressions I ever heard is "do don't," as when a lady called to her daughter,
"Martha, do don't slam that door again!"

How generally these peculiarities crop out in the speech of Charleston I cannot say. It occurs
to me, however, that, assembled and catalogued in this way, they may create the idea that slovenly
English is generally spoken in the city. If so they give an impression which I should not wish
to convey, since Charleston has no more peculiarities of language than New York or Boston,
and not nearly so many as a number of other cities. Cultivated Charlestonians have, moreover,
the finest voices I have heard in any American city.

CHAPTER XXXI

"GULLA" AND THE BACK COUNTRY

The most extraordinary negro dialect I know of is the "gulla" (sometimes spelled "gullah")
of the rice plantation negroes of South Carolina and of the islands off the South Carolina
and Georgia coast. I believe that the region of Charleston is headquarters for "gulla niggers,"
though I have heard the argot spoken as far south as Sepeloe Island, off the town of Darien,
Georgia, near the Florida line. Gulla is such an extreme dialect as to be almost a language
by itself. Whence it came I do not know, but I judge that it is a combination of English with
the primitive tongues of African tribes, just as the dialect of old Creole negroes, in Louisiana,
is a combination of African tribal tongues with French.

A Charleston lady tells me that negroes on different rice plantations--even on adjoining plantations--speak
dialects which differ somewhat, and I know of my own knowledge that thick gulla is almost incomprehensible
to white persons who have not learned, by long practice, to understand it.

A lady sent a gulla negro with a message to a friend. This is the message as it was delivered:

"Missis seh all dem turrah folk done come shum. Enty you duh gwine come shum?" (To get the
gulla effect the sounds should be uttered very rapidly.)

Translated, this means: "Mistress says all them other folks have come to see her. Aren't you
coming to see her?"

"Shum" is a good gulla word. It means all kinds of things having to do with seeing--to see
her, to see him, to see it. Thus, "You shum, enty?" may mean, You see him--her--or it? or You
see what he--she--or it--is doing, or has done? For gulla has no genders and no tenses. "Enty"
is a general question: Aren't you? Didn't you? Isn't it? etc. Another common gulla word is
"Buckra" which means a white man of the upper class, in contradistinction to a poor white.
I have known a negro to refer to "de frame o' de bud," meaning the carcass, or frame, of a
fowl. "Ay ain' day" means "They aren't (ain't) there."

A friend of mine who resided at Bluffton, South Carolina, has told me of an old gulla fisherman
who spoke in parables.

A lady would ask him: "Have you any fish to-day?" To which, if replying affirmatively, he would
answer: "Missis, de gate open"; meaning, "The door (of the 'car,' or fish-box) is open to you."
If he had no fish he would reply: "Missis, ebb-tide done tack (take) crick"; signifying: "The
tide has turned and it is too late to go to catch fish." This old man called whisky "muhgundy
smash," the term evidently derived from some idea of the word "burgundy" combined with the
word "mash."

Here is a gulla dialect story, with a line-for-line translation. A train has killed a cow,
and a negro witness is being examined by a justice of the peace:

JUSTICE--Uncle John, did you see what killed Sam's cow?

NEGRO--Co'ose Uh shum.                   (Of) course I saw him.

JUSTICE--What was it, Uncle John?

NEGRO--Dat black debble you-all          (It was) that black devil you-all
runnin' tru we lan'. Nigga duh           (are) running through our land.
                                         (A) nigger (fireman) he
stan' deh, duh po' coal                  stands there (and) he pours coal
in eh stomach.                           into its stomach.
Buckra duh sit up on eh seat,            (A) white man (engineer)
                                         he sits up on his seat.
duh smoke eh cigah, an' ebry             (and) he smokes his cigar, and every
tahme eh twis' eh tail eh run fasteh.    time he twists its (engine's) tail it
An'                                      runs faster. And
eh screams dis lak uh pantuh. Eben       it screams just like a panther. Even
w'en eh git tuh de station, eh stan'     when it gets to the station, it stands
tuh de station an' seh: "Kyan-stop!    at the station and says: "Can't-stop!
Kyan-stop! Kyan-stop!"               Can't-stop! Can't-stop!"

Sam cow binna browse down deh            Sam's cow was browsing down there
tuh Bull Head Crick. Eh ram eh           to (at) Bull Head Creek. It (engine)
                                         rammed its
nose innum, an' eh bussum wahde          nose into it (the cow), and it
                                         busted him wide
loose. Eh t'row eh intrus on de          loose (open). It threw its entrails
                                         on the
reyel on de cross-tie, an' clean-up      rails, on the cross-ties, and clean up
on de telegram pole.                   on the telegraph pole.

Mrs. Leiding (Harriette Kershaw Leiding), of Charleston, has done a fine service to lovers
of Old Charleston, and its ways, in collecting and publishing in pamphlet form a number of
the cries of the negro street vendors. Of these I shall rob Mrs. Leiding's booklet of but one
example--the cry of a little negro boy, a peddler of shrimp ("swimp"), who stood under a window
in the early morning and sang:

[Music:

An' a Daw-try Daw! an' a swimp-y raw! an' a Daw-try Daw-try Daw-try Raw Swimp.]

While on the subject of the Charleston negro I must not neglect two of his superstitions. One
is his belief that a two-dollar bill is unlucky. The curse may be removed only by tearing off
a corner of the bill. The other is that it is unlucky to hand any one a pin. A Charleston lady
told me that when she was motoring and wished to pin her hat or her veil, she could never get
her negro chauffeur to hand her pins. Instead he would stick them in the laprobe, or in the
sleeve of his coat, whence she could pick them out herself. Another lady told me of the case
of an old black slave who lived years ago on a plantation on the Santee River, owned by her
family. This slave, who was a very powerful, taciturn and high-tempered man, had a curious
habit of disappearing for about half an hour each day. He would go into the swamp, and for
many years no one ever followed him, the other negroes being afraid to do so because of his
temper and his strength. At last, however, they did spy upon him and discovered that in the
swamp there stood a cypress tree on which were strange rude carvings, before which he prostrated
himself. No one ever learned the exact significance of this, but it was assumed that the man
practised some barbaric form of worship, brought from Africa.

       *       *       *       *       *

The country back of Charleston is very lovely and is rich in interest, even though most of
the houses on the old estates have been destroyed. Drayton Hall, however, stands, and the old
Drayton estate, Magnolia, not far distant from the Hall (which was on another estate), has
one of the most famous gardens in the world. Seven persons touching fingertips can barely encircle
the trunks of some of the live-oaks at Magnolia; there are camellias more than twenty feet
high, and a rose tree nearly as large, but the great glory of the garden is its huge azaleas--ninety-two
varieties, it is said--which, when they blossom in the spring, are so wonderful that people
make long journeys for no other purpose than to see them.

In "Harper's Magazine" for December, 1875, I find an account of the gardens which were, at
that time, far from new. The azaleas were then twelve and thirteen feet tall; now, I am told,
they reach to a height of more than twenty feet, with a corresponding spread.

"It is almost impossible," says the anonymous writer of the article, "to give a Northerner
any idea of the affluence of color in this garden when its flowers are in bloom. Imagine a
long walk with the moss-draped live-oaks overhead, a fairy lake and a bridge in the distance,
and on each side the great fluffy masses of rose and pink and crimson, reaching far above your
head, thousands upon tens of thousands of blossoms packed close together, with no green to
mar the intensity of their color, rounding out in swelling curves of bloom down to the turf
below, not pausing a few inches above it and showing bare stems or trunk, but spreading over
the velvet, and trailing out like the rich robes of an empress. Stand on one side and look
across the lawn; it is like a mad artist's dream of hues; it is like the Arabian nights; eyes
that have never had color enough find here a full feast, and go away satisfied at last. And
with all their gorgeousness, the hues are delicately mingled; the magic effect is produced
not by unbroken banks of crude reds, but by blended shades, like the rich Oriental patterns
of India shawls, which the European designers, with all their efforts, can never imitate."

Another remarkable garden, though not the equal of Magnolia, is at Middleton Place, not many
miles away, and still another is at the pleasant winter resort town of Summerville, something
more than twenty miles above Charleston. The latter, called the Pinehurst Tea Garden, is said
to be the only tea garden in the United States. It is asserted that the teas produced here
are better than those of China and Japan, and are equal to those of India. The Government is
coöperating with the owners of this garden with a view to introducing tea planting in the country
in a large way.

The finest grade of tea raised here is known as "Shelter Tea," and is sold only at the gardens,
the price being five dollars per pound. It is a tea of the Assam species grown under shelters
of wire mesh and pine straw. This type of tea is known in Japan, where it originated, as "sugar
tea," because, owing to the fact that it is grown in the shade, the sap of the bush, which
is of starchy quality, is turned chemically into sugar, giving the leaf an exceedingly delicate
flavor.

From the superintendent in charge of the gardens I learned something of the bare facts of the
tea growing industry. I had always been under the impression that the name "pekoe" referred
to a certain type of tea, but he told me that the word is Chinese for "eyelash," and came to
be used because the tip leaves of tea bushes, when rolled and dried, resemble eyelashes. These
leaves--"pekoe tips"--make the most choice tea. The second leaves make the tea called "orange
pekoe," while the third leaves produce a grade of tea called simply "pekoe." In China it is
customary to send three groups of children, successively, to pick the leaves, the first group
picking only the tips, the second group the second leaves, and the third group the plain pekoe
leaves. At the Pinehurst Tea Gardens the picking is done by colored children, ranging from
eight to fifteen years of age. All the leaves are picked together and are later separated by
machinery.

Summerville itself seems a lovely lazy town. It is the kind of place to which I should like
to retire in the winter if I had a book to write. One could be very comfortable, and there
would be no radical distractions--unless one chanced to see the Most Beautiful Girl in the
World, who has been known to spend winters at that place.

On the way from Charleston to Summerville, if you go by motor, you pass The Oaks, an estate
with a new colonial house standing where an ancient mansion used to stand. A long avenue bordered
by enormous live-oaks, leading to this house, gives the place its name, and affords a truly
noble approach. Here, in Revolutionary times, Marion, "the Swamp Fox," used to camp.

Not far distant from the old gate at The Oaks is Goose Creek Church--the most interesting church
I have ever seen. The Parish of St. James, Goose Creek, was established by act of the Assembly,
November 30, 1706, and the present church, a brick building of crudely simple architecture,
was built about 1713. The interior of the church, though in good condition, is the oldest looking
thing, I think, in the United States. The memorial tablets in the walls, with their foreign
names and antique lettering, the curious old box pews, the odd little gallery at the back,
the tall pulpit, with its winding stair, above all the Royal Arms of Great Britain done in
relief on the chancel wall and brilliantly colored--all these make Goose Creek Church more
like some little Norman church in England, than like anything one might reasonably expect to
find on this side of the world.

Countless items of curious interest hang about the church and parish. Michaux, the French botanist
who came to this country in 1786, lived for a time at Goose Creek. He brought with him the
first four camellias seen in the United States, planting them at Middleton Place above Drayton
Hall, where, I believe, they still stand, having reached a great height. A British officer
known as Mad Archy Campbell was married at Goose Creek Church during the Revolution, under
romantic circumstances. Miss Paulina Phelps, a young lady of the parish, was a great beauty
and a great coquette, who amused herself alike with American and British officers. Campbell
met and fell desperately in love with her, and it is said that she encouraged him, though without
serious intent. One day he induced her to go horseback-riding with him and on the ride made
love to her so vehemently that she was "intimidated into accepting him." They rode to the rectory,
and Campbell, meeting the rector, demanded that he should marry them at once. The dominie replied
that he would do so "with the consent of the young lady and her mother," but Campbell proposed
to await no such formalities. Drawing his pistol he gave the minister the choice of performing
the ceremony then and there, or perishing. This argument proved conclusive and the two were
promptly wed.

When Goose Creek was within the British lines it is said that the minister proceeded, upon
one occasion, to utter the prayer for the King of England, in the Litany. At the end of the
prayer there were no "Amens," the congregation having been composed almost entirely, as the
story goes, of believers in American independence. Into the awkward pause after the prayer
one voice from the congregation was at last injected. It was the voice of old Ralph Izard,
saying heartily, not "Amen," but "Good Lord, deliver us!" There is a tablet in the church to
the memory of this worthy.

The story is told, also, of an old gentleman, a member of the congregation in Revolutionary
times, who informed the minister that if he again read the prayer for the King he would throw
his prayer-book at his head. The minister took this for a jest, but when he began to read the
prayer on the following Sunday, he found that it was not, for sure enough the prayer-book came
hurtling through the air. Prayer-books were heavier then than they are now, and it is said
that as a result of this episode, the minister refused to hold service thereafter.

The church is not now used regularly, an occasional memorial service only being held there.

       *       *       *       *       *

Charleston is a hard place to leave. Wherever one may be going from there, the change is likely
to be for the worse. Nevertheless, it is impossible to stay forever; so at last you muster
up your resignation and your resources, buy tickets, and reluctantly prepare to leave. If you
depart as we did, you go by rail, driving to the station in the venerable bus of the Charleston
Transfer Company--a conveyance which, one judges, may be coeval with the city's oldest mansions.
Little as we wished to leave Charleston we did not wish to defer our departure through any
such banality as the unnecessary missing of a train. Therefore as we waited for the bus, on
the night of leaving, and as train time drew nearer and nearer, with no sign of the lumbering
old vehicle, we became somewhat concerned.

When the bus did come at last there was little time to spare; nevertheless the conductor, an
easygoing man of great volubility, consumed some precious minutes in gossiping with the hotel
porter, and then with arranging and rearranging the baggage on the roof of the bus. His manner
was that of an amateur bus conductor, trying a new experiment. After watching his performances
for a time, looking occasionally at my watch, by way of giving him a hint, I broke out into
expostulation at the unnecessary delay.

"What's the matter?" asked the man in a gentle, almost grieved tone.

"There's very little time!" I returned. "We don't wish to miss the train."

"Oh, all right," said the bus conductor, making more haste, as though the information I had
given him put a different face on matters generally.

Presently we started. After a time he collected our fares. I have forgotten whether the amount
was twenty-five or fifty cents. At all events, as he took the money from my hand he said to
me reassuringly:

"Don't you worry, sir! If I don't get you to the train I'll give you this money back. That's
fair, ain't it?"

CHAPTER XXXII

OUT OF THE PAST

By no means all the leading citizens of Atlanta were in a frame of mind to welcome General
Sherman when, ten or a dozen years after the Civil War, he revisited the city. Captain Evan
P. Howell, a former Confederate officer, then publisher of the Atlanta "Constitution," was,
however, not one of the Atlantans who ignored the general's visit. Taking his young son, Clark,
he called upon the general at the old Kimball House (later destroyed by fire), and had an interesting
talk with him. Clark Howell, who has since succeeded his father as publisher of the "Constitution,"
was born while the latter was fighting at Chickamauga, and was consequently old enough, at
the time of the call on Sherman, to remember much of what was said. He heard the general tell
Captain Howell why he had made such a point of taking Atlanta, and as Sherman's military reasons
for desiring possession of the Georgia city explain, to a large extent, Atlanta's subsequent
development, I shall quote them as Clark Howell gave them to me.

First however, it is perhaps worth while to remind the reader of the bare circumstances preceding
the fall of Atlanta. After the defeat of the Confederate forces at Chattanooga, General Joseph
E. Johnston's army fell back slowly on Atlanta, much as the French fell back on Paris at the
beginning of the European War, shortening their own lines of communication while those of the
advancing Germans were being continually attenuated. As the Germans kept after the French,
Sherman kept after Johnston; and as Joffre was beginning to be criticized for failing to make
a stand against the enemy, so was Johnston criticized as he continued to retire without giving
battle. One of the chief differences between Joffre's retirement and Johnston's lies, however,
in the length of time consumed; for whereas the French retreat on Paris covered a few days
only, the Confederate retreat on Atlanta covered weeks and months, giving the Confederate Government
time to become impatient with Johnston and finally to remove him from command before the time
arrived when, in his judgment, the stand against Sherman should be made. Nor is it inconceivable
that, had the French retreat lasted as long as Johnston's, Joffre would have been removed and
would have lost the opportunity to justify his Fabian policy, as he did so gloriously at the
Battle of the Marne.

Though Atlanta was, at the time of the war, a city of less than 10,000 inhabitants, it was
the chief base of supply for men and munitions in the Far South.

"When my father asked him why all his effort and power had been centered, after Chickamauga,
on the capture of Atlanta," said Clark Howell, "I remember that General Sherman extended one
hand with the fingers spread apart, explaining the strategic situation by imagining Atlanta
as occupying a position where the wrist joins the hand, while the thumb and fingers represented,
successively, New Orleans, Mobile, Savannah, Charleston, and Norfolk. 'If I held Atlanta,'
he said, 'I was only one day's journey from these chief cities of the South.'"

In spite, therefore, of the assertion, which I have heard made, that the prosperity of Atlanta
is "founded on insurance premiums, coca-cola, and hot air," it seems to me that it is founded
on something very much more solid. Nor do I refer to the layer of granite which underlies the
city. The prosperity of Atlanta is based upon the very feature which made its capture seem
to Sherman so desirable: its strategic position as a central point in the Far South.

Neither in Atlanta nor in any other part of Georgia is General Sherman remembered with a feeling
that can properly be described as affectionate, though it may be added that Atlanta has good
reason for remembering him warmly. The burning of Atlanta by Sherman did not, however, prove
an unalloyed disaster, for the war came to an end soon after, and the rebuilding of the city
supplied work for thousands of former Confederate soldiers, and also drew to Atlanta many of
the strong men who played leading parts in the subsequent commercial upbuilding of the place:
such men as the late General Alfred Austell, Captain James W. English, and the three Inman
brothers, Samuel, John, and Hugh--to mention but a few names. The First National Bank, established
by General Austell, is, I believe, Atlanta's largest bank to-day, and was literally the first
national bank established in Georgia, if not in the whole South, after the war.

Woodrow Wilson was admitted to the bar in Atlanta, and, if I mistake not, practised law in
an office not far from that meeting place of highways called Five Points. Here, at Five Points,
two important trails crossed, long before there was any Atlanta: the north-and-south trail
between Savannah and Ross's Landing, and the east-and-west trail, which followed the old Indian
trails between Charleston and New Orleans. When people from this part of the country wished
to go to Ohio, Indiana, or the Mississippi Valley, they would take the old north-and-south
trail to Ross's Landing, follow the Tennessee River to where it empties into the Ohio, near
Paducah, Kentucky, and proceed thence to Mississippi.

In the thirties, Atlanta--or rather the site of Atlanta, for the city was not founded until
1840--was on the border of white civilization in northern Georgia, all the country to the north
of the Chattahoochee River, which flows a few miles distant from the city, having belonged
to the Cherokee Indians, who had been moved there from Florida. Even in those times the Cherokees
were civilized, as Indians go, for they lived in huts and practised agriculture. Of course,
however, their civilization was not comparable with that of the white man. If they had been
as civilized as he, they might have driven him out of Florida, instead of having been themselves
driven out, and they might have driven him out of Georgia, too, instead of having been pushed
on, as they were, to the Indian Territory--eighteen thousand of them, under military supervision,
on boats from Ross's Landing--leaving the beautiful white Cherokee rose, which grows wild and
in great profusion, in the spring, as almost their sole memorial on Georgia soil.

As Georgia became settled the trails developed into wagon and stage routes, and later they
were followed, approximately, by the railroads. After three railroads had reached Atlanta,
the State of Georgia engaged in what may have been the first adventure, in this country, along
the lines of government-owned railroads: namely, the building of the Western & Atlantic, from
Atlanta to Chattanooga, to form a link between the lower South and the rapidly developing West.
This road was built in the forties, and it was along its line that Johnston retreated before
Sherman, from Chattanooga to Atlanta. Though it is now leased and operated by the Nashville,
Chattanooga & St. Louis Railroad Company, it is still owned by the State of Georgia. The lease,
however, expires soon, and (an interesting fact in view of the continued agitation in other
parts of the country for government ownership of corporations) there is a strong sentiment
in Georgia in favor of selling the railroad; for it is estimated that, at a fair price, it
would yield a sum sufficient not only to wipe out the entire bonded indebtedness of the State
($7,000,000), but to leave ten or twelve millions clear in the State treasury.

       *       *       *       *       *

At Roswell, Georgia, a sleepy little hamlet in the hills, not many miles from Atlanta, stands
Bulloch Hall, where Martha ("Mittie") Bulloch, later Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, mother of the
President, was born. Roswell was originally settled, long ago, by people from Savannah, Darien,
and other towns of the flat, hot country near the coast, who drove there in their carriages
and remained during the summer. After a time, however, three prosperous families--the Bullochs,
Dunwoodys, and Barrington Kings--made their permanent homes at Roswell.

Bulloch Hall is one of those old white southern colonial houses the whole front of which consists
of a great pillared portico, in the Greek style, giving a look of dignity and hospitality.
Almost all such houses are, as they should be, surrounded by fine old trees; those at Bulloch
Hall are especially fine: tall cedars, ancient white oaks, giant osage oranges, and a pair
of holly trees, one at either side of the walk near the front door.

Theodore Roosevelt, Sr., and Mittie Bulloch met here when they were respectively seventeen
and fifteen years of age. A half sister of Miss Mittie had married a relative of the Roosevelts
and gone from Roswell to live in Philadelphia, and it was while visiting at her home that young
Roosevelt, hearing a great deal of the South, conceived a desire to go there. This resulted
in his first visit to Bulloch Hall, and his meeting with Mittie Bulloch. On his return to the
North he was sent abroad, but two or three years later when he went again to visit his relatives
in Philadelphia, Miss Mittie was also a guest at their house, and this time the two became engaged.

Save that the Bulloch furniture is no longer there, the interior of the old Georgia residence
stands practically as it was when Theodore Roosevelt and Mittie Bulloch were married in the
dining room. Through the center, from front to back, runs a wide hall, on either side of which
is a pair of spacious square rooms, each with a fireplace, each with large windows looking
out over the beautiful hilly country which spreads all about. It is a lovely house in a lovely
setting, and, though the Bullochs reside there no longer, Miss Mittie Bulloch is not forgotten
in Roswell, for one of her bridesmaids, Miss Evelyn King, now Mrs. Baker, still resides in
Barrington Hall, not far distant from the old Bulloch homestead.

CHAPTER XXXIII

ALIVE ATLANTA

An army officer, a man of broad sympathies, familiar with the whole United States, warned me
before I went south that I must not judge the South by northern standards.

"On the side of picturesqueness and charm," he said, "the South can more than hold its own
against the rest of the country; likewise on the side of office-holding and flowery oratory;
but you must not expect southern cities to have the energy you are accustomed to in the North."

As to the picturesqueness, charm, officeholding, and oratory, I found his judgments substantially
correct, but though I did perceive a certain lack of energy in some small cities, I should
not call that trait a leading one in the larger southern cities to-day. On the contrary, I
was impressed, in almost every large center that I visited, with the fact that, in the South
more, perhaps, than in any other part of the country, a great awakening is in progress. The
dormant period of the South is past, and all manner of developments are everywhere in progress.
Nor do I know of any city which better exemplifies southern growth and progress than Atlanta.

My Baedeker, dated 1909, opens its description of Atlanta with the statement that the German
consul there is Dr. E. Zoepffel. I doubt it--but let us pass over that. It describes Atlanta
as "a prosperous commercial and industrial city and an important railroad center, well situated,
1030-1175 feet above the sea, enjoying a healthy and bracing climate." That is true. Atlanta
is, if I mistake not, the highest important city east of Denver, and I believe her climate
is in part responsible for her energy, as it is also for the fact that her vegetation is more
like that of a northern than a southern city, elms and maples rather than magnolias, being
the trees of the Atlanta streets.

Baedeker gave Atlanta about 90,000 inhabitants in 1909, but the census of 1910 jumped her up
to more than 150,000, while the estimate of 1917 in the "World Almanac" credits her with about
180,000. Moreover, in the almanac's list of the largest cities of the earth, Atlanta comes
twentieth from the top. It is my duty, perhaps, to add that the list is arranged alphabetically--which
reminds me that some cynic has suggested that there may have been an alphabetical arrangement
of names, also, in the celebrated list in which Abou Ben Adhem's "name led all the rest." Nevertheless,
it may be stated that, according to the almanac's population figures, Atlanta is larger than
the much more ancient city of Athens (I refer to Athens, Greece; not Athens, Georgia), as well
as such considerable cities as Bari, Bochum, Graz, Kokand, and Omsk. Atlanta is, in short,
a city of about the size of Goteborg, and if she has not yet achieved the dimensions of Baku,
Belem, Changsha, Tashkent, or West Ham, she is growing rapidly, and may some day surpass them
all; yes, and even that thriving metropolis, Yekaterinoslav.

As to the "healthy and bracing climate," I know that Atlanta is cool and lovely in the spring,
and I am told that her prosperous families do not make it a practice to absent themselves from
home during the summer, according to the custom of the corresponding class in many other cities,
northern as well as southern.

Atlanta is one of the few large inland cities located neither upon a river nor a lake. When
the city was founded, the customs of life in Georgia were such that no one ever dreamed that
the State might some day go dry. Having plenty of other things to drink, the early settlers
gave no thought to water. But, as time went on, and prohibition became a more and more important
issue, the citizens of Atlanta began to perceive that, in emergency, the Chattahoochee River
might, after all, have its uses. Water was, consequently, piped from the river to the city,
and is now generally--albeit in some quarters mournfully--used. Though I am informed by an
expert in Indian languages that the Cherokee word "chattahoochee" is short for "muddy," the
water is filtered before it reaches the city pipes, and is thoroughly palatable, whether taken
plain or mixed.

Well-off though Atlanta is, she would esteem herself better off, in a material sense at least,
had she a navigable stream; for her chief industrial drawback consists in railroad freight
rates unmodified by water competition. She has, to be sure, a number of factories, including
a Ford automobile plant, but she has not so many factories as her strategic position, stated
by General Sherman, would seem to justify, or as her own industrial ambitions cause her to
desire. For does not every progressive American city yearn to bristle with factory chimneys,
even as a summer resort folder bristles with exclamation points? And is not soot a measure
of success?

Atlanta's line of business is largely office business; many great corporations have their headquarters
or their general southern branches in the city; one of the twelve Federal Reserve Banks is
there, and there are many strong banks. Indeed, I suppose Atlanta has more bankers, in proportion
to her population, than any other city in the United States. Some of these bankers are active
citizens and permanent residents of the city; others have given up banking for the time being
and are in temporary residence at the Federal Penitentiary.

The character of commerce carried on, naturally brings to Atlanta large numbers of prosperous
and able men--corporation officials, branch managers, manufacturers' agents, and the like--who,
with their families, give Atlanta a somewhat individual social flavor. This class of population
also accounts for the fact that the enterprisingness so characteristic of Atlanta is not the
mere rough, ebullient spirit of "go to it!" to be found in so many hustling cities of the Middle
West and West, but is, oftentimes, an informed and cultivated kind of enterprisingness, which
causes Atlanta not only to "do things," but to do things showing vision, and, furthermore,
to do them with an "air."

This is illustrated in various ways. It is shown, for example, in Atlanta's principal hotels,
which are not small-town hotels, or good-enough hotels, but would do credit to any city, however
great. The office buildings are city office buildings, and in the downtown section they are
sufficiently numerous to look very much at home, instead of appearing a little bit exotic,
self-conscious, and lonesome, as new skyscrapers do in so many cities of Atlanta's size. Even
the smoke with which the skyscrapers are streaked is city smoke. Chicago herself could hardly
produce smoke of more metropolitan texture--certainly not on the Lake Front, where the Illinois
Central trains send up their black clouds; for Atlanta's downtown smoke, like Chicago's, comes
in large part from railroads piercing the heart of the city. Where downtown business streets
cross the railroad tracks, the latter are depressed, the highways passing above on steel bridges
resembling the bridges over the Chicago River. The railroad's right of way is, furthermore,
just about as wide as the Chicago River, and rows of smoke-stained brick buildings turn their
backs upon it, precisely as similar buildings turn theirs upon Chicago's busy, narrow stream.
I wonder if all travelers, familiar with Chicago, are so persistently reminded of that portion
of the city which is near the river, as I was by that portion of Atlanta abutting on the tracks
by which the Seaboard Air Line enters the city.

Generally speaking, railroads in the South have not been so prosperous as leading roads in
the North, and with the exception of the most important through trains, their passenger equipment
is, therefore, not so good. The Seaboard Air Line, however, runs an all-steel train between
Atlanta and Birmingham which, in point of equipment, may be compared with the best limited
trains anywhere. The last car in this train, instead of being part sleeping car and part observation
car, is a combination dining and observation car--a very pleasant arrangement, for men are
allowed to smoke in the observation end after dinner. This is, to my mind, an improvement over
the practice of most railroads, which obliges men who wish to smoke to leave the ladies with
whom they may be traveling. All Seaboard dining cars offer, aside from regular à la carte service,
a sixty-cent dinner known as the "Blue Plate Special." This dinner has many advantages over
the usual dining-car repast. In the first place, though it does not comprise bread and butter,
coffee or tea, or dessert, it provides an ample supply of meat and vegetables at a moderate
price. In the second place, though served at a fixed price, it bears no resemblance to the
old-style dining car table d'hôte, but, upon the contrary, looks and tastes like food. The
food, furthermore, instead of representing a great variety of viands served in microscopic
helpings on innumerable platters and "side dishes," comes on one great plate, with recesses
for vegetables. The "Blue Plate Special" furnishes, in short, the chief items in a "good home
meal."

This is, perhaps, as convenient a place as any in which to speak of certain points concerning
various railroads in the South. The Central of Georgia Railway, running between Atlanta and
Savannah, instead of operating Pullmans, has its own sleeping cars. This is the only railroad
I know of in the country on which the tenant of a lower berth, below an unoccupied upper, may
have the upper closed without paying for it. One likes the Central of Georgia for this humane
dispensation. The locomotives of the Western & Atlantic carry as a distinguishing mark a red
band at the top of the smokestack. The Southern Railway assigns engineers to individual engines,
instead of "pooling power," as is the practice, I believe, on many railroads. Because of this,
engineers on the Southern regard the locomotives to which they are regularly assigned, as their
personal property, and exercise their individual taste in embellishing them. Brass bands, brass
flagstaffs, brass eagles over the headlight, and similar adornments are therefore often seen
on the engines of this road, giving the most elaborate of them a carnival appearance, by contrast
with the somber black to which most of us are accustomed, and hinting that not all the individuality
has been unionized out of locomotive engineers--an impression heightened by the Southern Railway's
further pleasant custom of painting the names of its older and more expert engineers upon the
cabs of their locomotives.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some cities are like lumbering old farm horses, plugging along a dusty country road. When another
horse overtakes them, if they be not altogether wanting in spirit, they may be encouraged to
jog a little faster for a moment, stimulated by example. If, besides being stupid, they are
mean, then they want to kick or bite at the speedier animal going by. Some cities are like
that, too. If an energetic city overtakes them, they are not spurred on to emulation, but lay
back their ears, so to speak. Again, there are tough, sturdy little cities like buckskin ponies.
There are skittish cities which seem to have been badly broken. There are old cities with a
worn-out kind of elegance, like that of superannuated horses of good breed, hitched to an old-fashioned
barouche. There are bad, bucking cities, like Butte, Montana. And here and there are cities,
like Atlanta, reminding one of thoroughbred hunters. There is a brave, sporting something in
the spirit of Atlanta which makes it rush courageously at big jumps, and clear them, and land
clean on the other side, and be off again. Like a thoroughbred, she loves the chase. She goes
in to win. She doesn't stop to worry about whether she can win or not. She knows she will.
And as the thoroughbred, loving large and astonishing achievement, lacks the humbler virtues
of the reliable family carriage horse, Atlanta, it cannot be denied, has "les défauts de ses
qualités." For whereas, on the side of dashing performance, Atlanta held a stock fair which,
in one year, surpassed any other held in the South, and secured the grand circuit of races,
on the other side she is careless about hospitals and charities; and whereas, on the one side,
she has raised millions for the building of two new universities (which, by the way, would
be much better as one great university, but cannot be, because of sectarian domination), on
the other, she is deficient as to schools; and again, whereas she is the only secondary city
to have an annual season of Metropolitan grand opera (and to make it pay!) she is behind many
other cities, including her neighbors, New Orleans and Savannah, in caring for the public health.

I am by no means sure that the regular spring visit of the Metropolitan Grand Opera Company
may be taken as a sign that Atlanta is peculiarly a music-loving community. Indeed, I was told
by one Atlanta lady, herself a musician, that the city did not contain more than a thousand
persons of real musical appreciation, that a number of these could not afford to attend the
operatic performances, and that opera week was, consequently, in reality more an occasion of
great social festivity than of devout homage to art.

"Our opera week," she told me, "bears the same relation to the life of Atlanta as Mardi Gras
does to that of New Orleans. It is an advertisement for the city, and an excuse for every one
to have a good time. Every night after the performance there are suppers and dances, which
the opera stars attend. They always seem to enjoy coming here. They act as though they were
off on a picnic, skylarking about the hotel, snap-shotting one another, and playing all manner
of pranks. And, of course, while they are here they own the town. Caruso draws his little caricatures
for the Atlanta girls, and Atlanta men have been dazzled, in successive seasons, by such gorgeous
beings as Geraldine Farrar, Alma Gluck, and Maria Barrientos--not only across the footlights
of the auditorium, mind you, but at close range; as, for instance, at dances at the Driving
Club, with Chinese lanterns strung on the terrace, a full moon above, and--one year--with the
whole Metropolitan Orchestra playing dance music all night long!"

Another lady, endeavoring to picture to me the strain involved in the week's gaieties, informed
me that when it was all over she went for a rest to New York, where she attended "a house party
at the Waldorf"!

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all Atlanta's undertakings, planned or accomplished, that which most interested my companion
and me was the one for turning a mountain into a sculptured monument to the Confederacy.

Sixteen miles to the east of the city the layer of granite which underlies the region stuck
its back up, so to speak, forming a great smooth granite hump, known as Stone Mountain. This
mountain is one of America's natural wonders. In form it may be compared with a round-backed
fish, such as a whale or porpoise, lying on its belly, partly imbedded in a beach, and some
conception of its dimensions may be gathered from the fact that from nose to tail it measures
about two miles, while the center of its back is as high as the Woolworth Building in New York.
Moreover, there is not a fissure in it; monoliths a thousand feet long have been quarried from
it; it is as solid as the Solid South.

The perpendicular streaks of light and dark gray and gray-green, made by the elements upon
the face of the rock, coupled with the waterfall-like curve of that face, make one think of
a sort of sublimated petrified Niagara--a fancy enhanced, on windy days, by the roar of the
gale-lashed forest at the mountain's foot.

The idea of turning the mountain into a Confederate memorial originated with Mr. William H.
Terrell of Atlanta. It was taken up with inspired energy by Mrs. C. Helen Plane, an Atlanta
lady, now eighty-seven years of age, who is honorary president of the United Daughters of the
Confederacy and president of the Stone Mountain Memorial Association. Mrs. Plane presented
the memorial plan to Mr. Samuel H. Venable of Venable Brothers, owners of the mountain, and
Mr. Venable promptly turned over the whole face of the mountain to the Memorial Association.
The exact form the memorial was to take had not at that time been developed. Gutzon Borglum
was, however, called in, and worked out a stupendous idea, which he has since been commissioned
to execute. On the side of the mountain, about four hundred feet above the ground, a roadway
is to be gouged out of the granite. On this roadway will be carved, in gigantic outlines, a
Confederate army, headed by Lee and Jackson on horseback. Other generals will follow, and will,
in turn, be followed by infantry, cavalry and artillery. The leading groups will be in full
relief and the equestrian figures will be fifty or more feet tall. This means that the faces
of the chief figures will measure almost the height of a man. The figures to the rear of the
long column will, according to present plans, be in bas-relief, and the whole procession will
cover a strip perhaps a mile long, all of it carved out of the solid mountainside.

A considerable tract of forest land at the foot of the great rock has already been dedicated
as a park. Here, concealed by the trees, at a point below the main group of figures, a temple,
with thirteen columns representing the thirteen Confederate States, is to be hewn out of the
mountain, to be used as a place for the safe-keeping of Confederate relics and archives.

Two million dollars is the sum spoken of to cover the total cost, and one of the finest things
about the plans for raising this money is that contributions from the entire country are being
accepted, so that not only the South, but the whole nation, may have a share in the creation
of a memorial to that dead government which the South so poetically adores, yet which it would
not willingly resurrect, and in the realization of a work resembling nothing so much as Kipling's
conception of the artist in heaven, who paints on "a ten-league canvas, with brushes of comet's
hair."

Until the Stone Mountain Memorial is completed, Atlanta's most celebrated monument will continue
to be that of Jack Smith. The Jack Smith monument stands in Oakland Cemetery, not over the
grave of Jack Smith, but over the grave that local character intends some day to occupy. Mr.
Smith is reputed to be rich. He built the downtown office building known as "The House that
Jack Built." As befits the owner of an office building, he wears a silk hat, but a certain
democratic simplicity may be observed in the rest of his attire, especially about the region
of the neck, for though he apparently believes in the convention concerning the wearing of
collars, he has a prejudice against the concealing of a portion of the collar by that useless
and snobbish adornment, the necktie. Each spring, I am informed, it is his custom to visit
his cemetery lot and inspect the statue of himself which a commendable foresight has caused
him to erect over his proposed final resting place. It is said that upon the occasion of last
season's vernal visit he was annoyed at finding his effigy cravated by a vine which had grown
up and encircled the neck. This he caused to be removed; and it is to be hoped that when, at
last, his monument achieves its ultimate purpose, those who care for the cemetery will see
to it that leafy tendrils be not permitted to mount to the marble collar of the figure, to
form a necktie, or to obscure the nobly sculptured collar button.

CHAPTER XXXIV

GEORGIA JOURNALISM

In journalism Atlanta is far in advance of many cities of her size, North or South. The Atlanta
"Constitution," founded nearly half a century ago, is one of the country's most distinguished
newspapers. The "Constitution" came into its greatest fame in the early eighties, when Captain
Evan P. Howell--the same Captain Howell who commanded a battery at the battle of Peachtree
Creek, in the defense of Atlanta, and who later called, with his son, on General Sherman, as
already recorded--became its editor, and Henry W. Grady its managing editor. Like William Allen
White and Walt Mason of the Emporia (Kansas) "Gazette," who work side by side, admire each
other, but disagree on every subject save that of the infallibility of the ground hog as a
weather prophet, Howell and Grady worked side by side and were devoted friends, while disagreeing
personally, and in print, on prohibition and many other subjects. Grady would speak at prohibition
rallies and, sometimes on the same night, Howell would speak at anti-prohibition rallies. In
their speeches they would attack each other. The accounts of these speeches, as well as conflicting
articles written by the two, would always appear in the "Constitution."

Of the pair of public monuments to individuals which I remember having seen in Atlanta, one
was the pleasing memorial, in Piedmont Park, to Sidney Lanier (who was peculiarly a Georgia
poet, having been born in Macon, in that State, and having written some of his most beautiful
lines under the spell of Georgia scenes), and the other the statue of Henry W. Grady, which
stands downtown in Marietta Street.

The Grady monument--one regrets to say it--is less fortunate as a work of art than as a deserved
symbol of remembrance. Grady not only ought to have a monument, but as one whose writings prove
him to have been a man of taste, he ought to have a better one than this poor mid-Victorian
thing, placed in the middle of a wide, busy street, with Fords parked all day long about its base.

Says the inscription:

    HE NEVER SOUGHT A PUBLIC OFFICE.
     WHEN HE DIED HE WAS LITERALLY
      LOVING A NATION INTO PEACE.

On another side of the base is chiseled a characteristic extract from one of Grady's speeches.
This speech was made in 1899, in Boston, and one hopes that it may have been heard by the late
Charles Francis Adams, who labored in Massachusetts for the cause of intersectional harmony,
just as Grady worked for it in Georgia.

     This hour [said Grady] little needs the loyalty that is loyal to
     one section and yet holds the other in enduring suspicion and
     estrangement. Give us the broad and perfect loyalty that loves and
     trusts Georgia alike with Massachusetts--that knows no South, no
     North, no East, no West; but endears with equal and patriotic love
     every foot of our soil, every State in our Union.

Grady could not only write and say stirring things; he could be witty. He once spoke at a dinner
of the New England Society, in New York, at which General Sherman was also present.

"Down in Georgia," he said, "we think of General Sherman as a great general; but it seems to
us he was a little careless with fire."

Nor was Grady less brilliant as managing editor than upon the platform. He had the kind of
enterprise which made James Gordon Bennett such a dashing figure in newspaper life, and the
New York "Herald" such a complete newspaper--the kind of enterprise that charters special trains,
and at all hazards gets the story it is after. Back in the early eighties Grady was running
the Atlanta "Constitution" in just that way. If a big story "broke" in any of the territory
around Atlanta, Grady would not wait upon train schedules, but would hire an engine and send
his men to the scene. Once, following a sensational murder, he learned that the Birmingham
"Age-Herald" had a big story dealing with developments in the case. He wired the "Age-Herald"
offering a large price for the story. When his offer was refused Grady knew that if he could
not devise a way to get the story, Atlanta would be flooded next day with "Age-Heralds" containing
the "beat" on the "Constitution." He at once chartered a locomotive and rushed two reporters
and four telegraph operators down the line toward Birmingham. At Aniston, Alabama, the locomotive
met the train which was bringing "Age-Heralds" to Atlanta. A copy of the paper was secured.
The "Constitution" men then broke into a telegraph office and wired the whole story in to their
paper, with the result that the "Constitution" was out with it before the Birmingham papers
reached Atlanta.

Atlanta was at that time a town of only about 40,000 inhabitants, but the "Constitution," in
the days of Howell and Grady, had a circulation four times greater than the total population
of the city--a situation almost unheard of in journalism. Something of the breadth of its influence
may be gathered from the fact that in several counties in Texas, where the law provided that
whatever newspaper had the largest circulation in the county should be the county organ, the
county organ was the Atlanta "Constitution."

An Atlanta lady tells of having called upon Grady to complain about an article which she did
not think the "Constitution" should have printed.

"Why did you put that objectionable article in your paper?" she asked him.

"Did you read it?" he inquired.

"Yes, I did."

"Then," said Grady, "that's why I put it there."

Grady and Howell always ran a lively sporting department. Away back in the days of bare-knuckle
prize fights--such as those between Sullivan and Ryan, and Sullivan and Kilrain--a "Constitution"
reporter was always at the ringside, no matter where the fight might take place. For a newspaper
in a town of forty or fifty thousand inhabitants, a large percentage of them colored illiterates,
this was real enterprise.

A favorite claim of Grady's was that his reporters were the greatest "leg artists" in the world.
He used to organize walking matches for reporters, offering large prizes and charging admission.
This developed, in the middle eighties, a general craze for such matches, and resulted in the
holding of many inter-city contests, in which teams, four men to a side, took part. One of
the "Constitution's" champion "leg artists" was Sam W. Small, now an evangelist and member
of the "flying squadron" of the Anti-Saloon League of America.

The most widely celebrated individual ever connected with the "Constitution" was Joel Chandler
Harris, many of whose "Uncle Remus" stories--those negro folk tales still supreme in their
field--appeared originally in that paper. In view of Mr. Harris's achievement it is pleasant
to recall that there was paid to him during his life one of the finest tributes that an author
can receive. As with "Mr. Dooley" of our day, he came, himself, to be affectionately referred
to by the name of the chief character in his works. "Uncle Remus" he was, and "Uncle Remus"
he will always be. Mr. Harris's eldest son, Julian, widely known as a journalist, is said to
have been the little boy to whom "Uncle Remus" told his tales.

Though there is, as yet, no public monument in Atlanta to Joel Chandler Harris, the "Wren's
Nest," his former home, at 214 Gordon Street, is fittingly preserved as a memorial. Visitors
may see the old letter box fastened to a tree by the gate--that box in which a wren built her
nest, giving the house its name. It is a simple old house with the air of a home about it,
and the intimate possessions of the author lie about as he left them. His bed is made up, his
umbrella hangs upon the mantelshelf, his old felt hat rests upon the rack, the photograph of
his friend James Whitcomb Riley looks down from the bedroom wall, and on the table, by the
window, stands his typewriter--the confidant first to know his new productions.

The presence of these personal belongings keeps alive the illusion that "Uncle Remus" has merely
stepped out for a little while--is hiding in the garden, waiting for us to go away. It would
be like him, for he was among the most modest and retiring of men, as there are many amusing
anecdotes to indicate. Once when some one had persuaded him to attend a large dinner in New
York, they say, he got as far as New York, but as the dinner hour approached could not bear
to face the adulation awaiting him, and incontinently fled back to Atlanta.

Frank L. Stanton, poet laureate of Georgia, and of the "Constitution," joined the "Constitution"
staff through the efforts of Mr. Harris, one of whose closest intimates he was. Speaking of
Mr. Harris's gift for negro dialect, Mr. Stanton told me that there was one negro exclamation
which "Uncle Remus" always wished to reproduce, but which he never quite felt could be expressed,
in writing, to those unfamiliar with the negro at first hand: that is the exclamation of amazement,
which has the sound, "mmm--mh!"--the first syllable being long and the last sharp and exclamatory.

Mr. Stanton has for years conducted a column of verse and humorous paragraphic comment, under
the heading "Just from Georgia," on the editorial page of the "Constitution." Some idea of
the high estimation in which he is held in his State is to be gathered from the fact that "Frank
L. Stanton Day" is annually celebrated in the Georgia schools.

Mr. Stanton began his newspaper career as a country editor in the town of Smithville, Georgia.
Mr. Harris, then a member of the "Constitution's" editorial staff, began reprinting in that
journal verses and paragraphs written by Stanton, with the result that the Smithville paper
became known all over the country. Later Stanton moved to Rome, Georgia, becoming an editorial
writer on a paper there--the "Tribune," edited at that time by John Temple Graves, if I am
not mistaken. Still later he removed to Atlanta, joined the staff of the "Constitution," and
started the department which has now continued for more than twenty-five years.

Joel Chandler Harris used to tell a story about Stanton's first days in the "Constitution"
office. According to this story, the paper on which Stanton had worked in Rome had not been
prosperous, and salaries were uncertain. When the business manager went out to try to raise
money in the town, he never returned without first reading the signals placed by his assistant
in the office window. If a red flag was shown, it signified that a collector was waiting in
the office. In that event the business manager would not come in, but would circle about until
the collector became tired of waiting and departed--a circumstance indicated by the withdrawal
of the red flag and the substitution of a white one. According to the story, as it was told
to me, reporters on the paper were seldom paid; if one of them made bold to ask for his salary,
he was likely to be discharged. It was from this uncertain existence that Stanton was lured
to the "Constitution" by an offer of $22.50 per week. When he had been on the "Constitution"
for three weeks Mr. Harris discovered that he had drawn no salary. This surprised him--as indeed
it would any man who had had newspaper experience.

"Stanton," he said, "you are the only newspaper man I have ever seen who is so rich he doesn't
need to draw his pay."

But, as it turned out, Stanton was not so prosperous as Harris perhaps supposed. He was down
to his last dime, and had been wondering how he could manage to get along; for his training
on the Rome paper had taught him never to ask for money lest he lose his job.

"Well," he said to Harris, "I could use some of my salary--if you're sure it won't be any inconvenience?"

Those familiar with the works of Mr. Stanton, Mr. Harris, and James Whitcomb Riley, Indiana's
great poet, will perceive that certain similar tastes and feelings inform their writings, and
will not be surprised to learn, if not already aware of it, that the three were friends. Mr.
Stanton's only absence from Atlanta since he joined the "Constitution," was on the occasion
of a visit he paid Mr. Riley at the latter's home in Indianapolis. The best of Stanton's work
must have appealed to Riley, for it contains not a little of the kindly, homely, humorous truthfulness,
and warmth of sentiment, of which Riley was himself such a master. Among the most widely familiar
verses of the Georgia poet are those of his "Mighty Like a Rose," set to music by Ethelbert
Nevin, and "Just a-Wearying for You," with music by Carrie Jacobs Bond. "Money" is a verse
in hilarious key, which many will remember for the comical vigor of the last three lines in
its first stanza:

    When a fellow has spent
    His last red cent
    The world looks blue, you bet!
    But give him a dollar
    And you'll hear him holler:
    "There's life in the old land yet!"

Richly humorous though Stanton is, he can also reach the heart. The former Governor of a Western
State picked up Stanton's book, "Songs of the Soil," and after reading "Hanging Bill Jones,"
and "A Tragedy," therein, commuted the sentence of a man who was to have been executed next
day. One hopes the man deserved to escape. In another case an individual who was about to commit
suicide chanced to see in an old newspaper Stanton's encouraging verses called "Keep a-Goin',"
and was stimulated by them to have a fresh try at life on earth instead of elsewhere.

Joel Chandler Harris wrote the introduction to "Songs of the Soil." Other collections of Stanton's
works are "Songs of Dixie Land," and "Comes One With a Song." The danger in starting to quote
from these books--which, by the way, are chiefly made up of measures that appeared originally
in the "Constitution"--is that one does not like to stop. I have, however, limited myself to
but one more theft, and instead of making my own choice, have left the selection to a friend
of Mr. Stanton's, who has suggested the lines entitled "A Poor Unfortunate":

    His hoss went dead, an' his mule went lame,
    He lost six cows in a poker game;
    A harricane come on a summer's day
    An' carried the house whar he lived away,
    Then a earthquake come when that wuz gone
    An' swallered the land that the house stood on!
    An' the tax collector, he come roun'
    An' charged him up fer the hole in the groun'!
    An' the city marshal he come in view
    An' said he wanted his street tax, too!

    Did he moan an' sigh? Did he set an' cry
    An' cuss the harricane sweepin' by?
    Did he grieve that his old friends failed to call
    When the earthquake come and swallered all?
    Never a word o' blame he said,
    With all them troubles on top his head!
    Not him! He climbed on top o' the hill
    Whar stan'in' room wuz left him still,
    An', barrin' his head, here's what he said:
    "I reckon it's time to git up an' git,
    But, Lord, I hain't had the measles yit!"

Among those who have been on the staff of the "Constitution" and have become widely known,
may be mentioned the gifted Corra Harris, many of whose stories have Georgia backgrounds, and
who still keeps as a country home in the State where she was born, a log cabin, known as "In
the Valley," at Pine Log, Georgia; also the perhaps equally (though differently) talented Robert
Adamson, whose administration as fire commissioner of the City of New York was so able as to
result in a reduction of insurance rates.

Atlanta reporters, it would seem, run to the New York Fire Department, for Joseph Johnson,
who preceded Mr. Adamson as commissioner, was once a reporter on the Atlanta "Journal." The
latter paper used to belong to Hoke Smith. It was at one time edited by John Temple Graves,
who later edited the Atlanta "Georgian," and is now a member of the forces of William Randolph
Hearst, in New York. The late Jacques Futrelle, the author, who went down with the Titanic,
was a Georgian, and worked for years on the "Journal." Don Marquis, one of the most brilliant
American newspaper "columnists," now in charge of the department known as "The Sun Dial" on
the New York "Evening Sun," was also at one time on the "Journal," as was likewise Grantland
Rice, America's most widely read sporting writer. Lollie Belle Wiley, whose poetry has a distinct
southern quality, is, I believe, a member of the "Journal's" staff. As the eminent Ty Cobb
once wrote a book, it seems fair to mention him also among Georgian authors, though so far
as I know he never worked on an Atlanta paper. And if Atlanta's three celebrated golfers have
not written for the papers, they have at least supplied the sporting page with much material.
Miss Alexa Sterling of Atlanta, a young lady under twenty, is one of the best women golfers
in the United States; Perry Adair also figures in national golf, and Robert T. ("Bobby") Jones,
Jr., who was southern champion at the age of fourteen, is, perhaps, an unprecedented marvel
at the game--so at least my golfing friends inform me.

The continued militancy of the "Constitution," under the editorship of Clark Howell, who sits
in his father's old chair, with a bust of Grady at his elbow, is evidenced not only by its
frequent editorials against lynching, but by its fearless campaign against another Georgia
specialty--the "paper colonel." The ranks of the "paper colonels" in the South are chiefly
made up of lawyers who "have been colonelized by custom for no other reason than that they
have led their clients to victory in legal battles." Some of the real colonels have been objecting
to the paper kind, and the "Constitution" has bravely backed up the objection.

The liveliness of journalism in Georgia does not begin and end in Atlanta. The Savannah "Morning
News" has an able editorial page, and there are many others in the State. Some of the small-town
papers are, moreover, well worth reading for that kind of breeziness which we usually associate
with the West rather than the South. Consider, for example, the following, in which the Dahlonega
(Georgia) "Nugget," published up in the mountains, in the section where gold is mined, discusses
the failings of one Billie Adams, the editor's own son-in-law:

     On Saturday last, Billie Adams and his wife waylaid the public road
     over on Crown Mountain, where this sorry piece of humanity stood
     and cursed while his wife knocked down and beat her sister, Emma.
     He is a son-in-law of ours, but if the Lord had anything to do with
     him, He must have made a mistake and thought He was breathing the
     breath of life into a dog.

     He is too lazy to work and lays around and waits for his wife to
     get what she can procure on credit, until she can get nothing more
     for him and the children to eat. Recently he claimed to be gone to
     Tennessee in search of work. Upon hearing that his family had
     nothing to eat, we had Carl Brooksher send over nearly four
     dollars' worth of provisions. In he came and sat there and feasted
     until every bite was gone. But this ends it with us.

     There are a lot of people who have sorry kinfolks, but in this
     instance if there were prizes offered, we would certainly win the
     first.

     Last year, thinking he would scare his mother-in-law and
     sister-in-law off from where they live, so he could get the place,
     he shot two holes through their window, turned their mule out of
     the stable, and tried to run it into the bean patch, besides
     hanging up a bunch of switches at the drawbars. Then their fence
     was set afire twice. This is said to be the work of his wife. Then,
     after carrying home meat, flour, lard, and vegetables to eat for
     her mother and sister, he whipped the latter because she refused to
     give him two of the wagon wheels.

     The city made a case against both for the whipping, and the wife,
     although coming to town alone frequently during the day, brought
     her baby and everything to the council room, plead guilty and was
     fined one and costs. Billie didn't appear, but if he stays in this
     country Marshal Wimpy will have him, when all these things will
     come to light, both in the council chamber and grand jury room.

The scandal of newspaperdom in Georgia is, of course, Tom Watson, who publishes the "Jeffersonian"--a
misnamed paper if there ever was one--in the town of Thomson. Many years ago, when Edward P.
Thomas, now assistant to the president of the United States Steel Corporation, was a little
boy in Atlanta, complaining about having his ears washed; when Theodore D. Rousseau, secretary
to Mayor Mitchel of New York, was having his early education drilled into him at the Ivy Street
school; when Ralph Peters, now president of the Long Island Railroad, had left Atlanta and
become a division superintendent on the Panhandle Road; when the parents of Ivy Ledbetter Lee
were wondering to what college they would send him when he grew to be a big boy; when Robert
Adamson was a page in the Georgia Legislature--as long ago as that, Tom Watson was waving his
red head and prominent Adam's apple as a member of the State House of Representatives. In the
mad and merry days of Bryanism he became a Populist Member of Congress. He was nominated for
vice-president, to run on the Populist ticket with Bryan. Later he ran for president on the
ticket of some unheard-of party, organized in protest against the "conservatism" of the Populists.
Watson's paper reminds one of Brann and his "Iconoclast." Reading it, I have never been able
to discover what Watson was for. All I could find out was what he was violently against--and
that is almost everything. He is the wild ass of Georgia journalism; the thistles of chaos
are sweet in him, and order in any department of life is a chestnut burr beneath his tail.

CHAPTER XXXV

SOME ATLANTA INSTITUTIONS

There has been great rejoicing in Atlanta over the raising of funds for the establishment there
of two new universities, Emory and Oglethorpe. Emory was founded in 1914, as the result of
a feud which developed in Vanderbilt University, located at Nashville, Tennessee, over the
question as to whether the institution should be controlled by the Board of Bishops of the
southern Methodist Episcopal Church, or by the University trustees, who were not so much interested
in the development of the sectarian side of the university. The fight was taken to the courts
where the trustees won. As a result, Methodist influence and support were withdrawn from Vanderbilt,
which thenceforward became a non-sectarian college, and Emory was started--Atlanta having been
selected as its home because nearly a million and a half dollars was raised in Atlanta to bring
it there.

Oglethorpe is to be a Presbyterian institution, and starts off with a million dollars.

This will give Atlanta three rather important colleges, since she already has the technical
branch of the University of Georgia, the main establishment of which located at Athens, Georgia,
is one of the oldest state universities in the country, having been founded in 1801. (The University
of Tennessee is the oldest state university in the South. It was founded in 1794. The University
of Pennsylvania, dating from 1740, is the oldest of all state universities. Harvard, founded
in 1636, was the first college established in the country; and the only other American colleges
which survive from the seventeenth century are William and Mary, at Williamsburg, Virginia,
established in 1693, and St. John's College, at Annapolis, dating from 1696.)

There is a tendency in some parts of the South to use the terms "college" and "university"
loosely. Some schools for white persons, doing little if anything more than grammar and high-school
work, are called "colleges," and negro institutions doing similar work are sometimes grandiloquently
termed "universities."

Atlanta has thirteen public schools for negroes, but no public high school for them. There
are, however, six large private educational institutions for negroes in the city, doing high-school,
college, or graduate work, making Atlanta a great colored educational center. Of these, Atlanta
University, a non-sectarian co-educational college with a white president (Mr. Edward T. Ware,
whose father came from New England and founded the institution in 1867), is, I believe, the
oldest and largest. It is very highly spoken of. Atlanta and Clark Universities are the only
two colored colleges in Atlanta listed in the "World Almanac's" table of American universities
and colleges. Clark also has a white man as president.

Spelman Seminary, a Baptist institution for colored girls, has a white woman president, and
is partially supported by Rockefeller money. Morehouse College, for boys, has a colored president,
an able man, is of similar denomination and is also partially supported by Rockefeller funds.
Spelman and Morehouse are run separately, excepting in college work, on which they combine.
Both are said to be excellent. Morris Brown University is not a university at all, but does
grammar and high-school work. It is officered and supported by colored people, all churches
of the African Methodist Episcopal denomination subscribing funds for its maintenance. Gammon
Theological Seminary is, I am informed, the one adequately endowed educational establishment
for negroes in Atlanta. It would, of course, be a splendid thing if the best of these schools
and colleges could be combined.

Citizens of Atlanta do not, generally, take the interest they ought to take in these or other
institutions for the benefit of negroes. To be sure, most Southerners do not believe in higher
education for negroes; but, even allowing for that viewpoint, it is manifestly unfair that
white children should have public high schools and that negro children should have none, but
should be obliged to pay for their education above the grammar grades. Perhaps there are people
in Atlanta who believe that even a high-school education is undesirable for the negro. That,
however, seems to me a pretty serious thing for one race to attempt to decide for another--especially
when the deciding race is not deeply and sincerely interested in the uplift of the race over
which it holds the whip hand. Certainly intelligent people in the South believe in industrial
training for the negro, and equally certainly a negro high school could give industrial training.

Negroes are not admitted to Atlanta parks, nor are there any parks exclusively for them. Until
recently there was no contagious-disease hospital to which negroes could be taken, and there
is not now a reformatory for colored girls in the State of Georgia. Neither is there any provision
whatsoever in the State for the care of feeble-minded colored children. And there is one thing
even worse to be said. Shameful as are Georgia's frequent lynchings, shameful as is the State's
indifference to negro welfare, blacker yet is the law upon her statute books making the "age
of consent" ten years! Various women's organizations, and individual women, have, for decades,
worked to change this law, but without success. The term "southern chivalry" must ring mocking
and derisive in the ears of Georgia legislators until this disgrace is wiped out. Standing
as it does, it means but one thing: that in order to protect some white males in their depravity,
the voters of Georgia are satisfied to leave little girls, ten, eleven, twelve years of age,
and upward, white as well as colored, utterly unprotected by the law in this regard.

I have heard more than one woman in Georgia intimate that she would be well pleased with a
little less exterior "chivalry" and a little more plain justice. Aside from their efforts to
change the "age of consent" law, leading women in the State have been working for compulsory
education, for the opening of the State University to women, for factory inspection and decent
child-labor laws. The question of child labor has now been taken in hand by the National Government--as,
of course, the "age of consent" should also be--but in other respects but little progress has
been made in Georgia.

From such cheerless items I turn gladly to a happier theme.

As I have said elsewhere in this book, many colored people in Atlanta are doing well in various
ways. At Atlanta University I saw several students whose fathers and mothers were graduates
of the same institution. Higher education for the negro has, thus, come into its second generation.
More prosperous negroes in Atlanta are doing social settlement work among less fortunate members
of their race, and have started a free kindergarten for negro children. Many good people in
Atlanta are unaware of these facts, and I believe their judgment on the entire negro question
would be modified, at least in certain details, were they merely to inform themselves upon
various creditable negro activities in the city. The northern stranger, attempting to ascertain
the truth about the negro and the negro problem, has to this extent the advantage of the average
Southerner: prejudice and indifference do not prevent his going among the negroes to find out
what they are doing for themselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

At various times in my life chance has thrown me into contact with charities in great variety,
and philanthropic work of many kinds. I have seen theoretical charities, sentimental charities,
silly charities, pauperizing charities, wild-eyed charities, charities which did good, and
others which worked damage in the world; I have seen organized charities splendidly run under
difficult circumstances (as in the Department of Charities under Commissioner Kingsbury, in
New York City), and I have seen other organized charities badly run at great expense; I have
seen charities conducted with the primary purpose of ministering to the vanity of self-important
individuals who like to say: "See all the good that I am doing!" and I have seen other personal
charities operated (as in the case of the Rockefeller Foundation) with a perfectly magnificent
scope and effectiveness.

Nevertheless, of all the charities I have seen, of all the efforts I have witnessed to improve
the condition of humanity, none has taken a firmer hold upon my heart than the Leonard Street
Orphans' Home, for negro girls, in Atlanta.

The home is a humble frame building which was used as a barracks by northern troops stationed
in Atlanta after the Civil War. In it reside Miss Chadwick, her helpers, and about seventy
little negro girls; and it is an interesting fact that several of the helpers are young colored
women who, themselves brought up in the home and taught to be self-supporting, have been drawn
back to the place by homesickness. Was ever before an orphan homesick for an orphans' home?

Miss Chadwick is an Englishwoman. Coming out to America a good many years ago, she somehow
found Atlanta, and in Atlanta somehow found this orphanage, which was then both figuratively
and literally dropping to pieces. Some one had to take hold of it, so Miss Chadwick did. How
successful she has been it is hard to convey in words. I do not mean that she has succeeded
in building up a great flourishing plant with a big endowment and all sorts of improvements.
Far from it. The home stands on a tiny lot, the building is ramshackle and not nearly large
enough for its purpose, and sometimes it seems doubtful where the money to keep it going will
come from. Nevertheless the home is a hundred times more successful than I could have believed
a home for orphans, colored or white, could be made, had I not seen it with my own eyes. Its
success lies not in material possessions or prosperity, not in the food and shelter it provides
to those who so pitifully needed it, but in the fact that it is in the truest and finest sense
a home, a place endowed with the greatest blessings any home can have: contentment and affection.
What Miss Chadwick has provided is, in short, an institution with a heart.

How did she do it? That, like the other mystery of how she manages to house those seventy small
lively people in that little building, is something which only Heaven and Miss Chadwick understand.

But then, if you have ever visited the home and met Miss Chadwick, and seen her with her children,
you know that Heaven and Miss Chadwick understand a lot of things the rest of us don't know
about at all!

CHAPTER XXXVI

A BIT OF RURAL GEORGIA

    To walk with the morning and watch its rose unfold;
    To drowse with the noontide lulled in its heart of gold;
    To lie with the night-time and dream the dreams of old.

    --MADISON CAWEIN.

A man I know studies as a hobby something which he calls "graphics"--the term denoting the
reaction of the mind to certain words. One of the words he used in an experiment with me was
"winter." When he said "winter" there instantly came to me the picture of a snowstorm in Quebec.
I saw the front of the Hotel Frontenac at dusk through a mist of driving snow. There were lights
in the windows. A heavy wind was blowing and as I leaned against it the front of my overcoat
was plastered with sticky white flakes. The streets and sidewalks were deep with snow, and
the only person besides myself in the vision was a sentry standing with his gun in the lee
of the vestibule outside the local militia headquarters.

If my friend were to come now and try me with the word "spring," I know what picture it would
call to mind. I should see the Burge plantation, near Covington, Georgia: the simple old white
house with its rose-clad porch, or "gallery," its grove of tall trees, its carriage-house,
its well-house, and other minor dependencies clustering nearby like chickens about a white
hen, its background the rolling cottonfields, their red soil glowing salmon-colored in the sun.

In seasons, as in other things, we have our individual preferences. Melancholy natures usually
love autumn, with its colorings so like sweet sad minor chords. But what kind of natures they
are which rejoice in spring, which feel that with each spring the gloomy past is blotted out,
and life, with all its opportunities, begins anew--what kind of natures they are which recognize
April instead of January as the beginning of their year I shall not attempt to tell, for mine
is such a nature, and one must not act at once as subject and diagnostician.

So long as I endure, spring can never come again without turning my thoughts to northwestern
Georgia; to the peculiar penetrating warmth which passed through the clothing to the body and
made one feel that one was not surrounded by mere air, but was immersed in a dry bath of some
infinitely superior vapor, a vapor volatile, soothing, tonic, distilled, it seemed, from the
earth, from pine trees, tulip trees, balm-of-Gilead trees, (or "bam" trees, as they call them),
blossoming Judas trees, Georgia crabapple, dogwood pink and white, peach blossom, wistaria,
sweet-shrub, dog violets, pansy violets, Cherokee roses, wild honeysuckle and azalia, and the
evanescent green of new treetops, all carried in solution in the sunlight. By day the brilliant
cardinal adds his fine note of color and sound, but at night he is silent, and when the moon
comes out one hears the mockingbird and, it may be also, two whippoorwills, one in the grove
near the house, one in the woods across the road, calling back and forth. Then one is tempted
to step down from the porch, and follow the voices of the birds into the vague recesses of
a night webbed with dark tree shadows outlined in blue moonlight.

Small wonder it is, if, as report says, no houseparty on a southern plantation is a success
unless young couples become "sort of engaged," and if in a region so provocative in springtime
under a full moon, a distinction is recognized between being merely "engaged," and being engaged
to be married.

One Georgia belle we met, a sloe-eyed girl whose reputation not only for beauty but for charm
reached through the entire South, had, at the time of our visit, recently become engaged in
the more grave and permanent sense.

"How does it seem?" a girl friend asked her.

"I feel," she answered, "like a man who has built up a large business and is about to go into
the hands of a receiver."

Such ways as those girls have! Such voices! Such eyes! And such names, too! Names which would
not fit at all into a northern setting, relatively so hard and unsentimental, but which, when
one becomes accustomed to them, take their place gracefully and harmoniously in the southern
picture. The South likes diminutives and combinations in its women's names. Its Harriets, Franceses,
Sarahs, and Marthas, become Hatties, Fannies, Sallies and Patsies, and Patsy sometimes undergoes
a further transition and becomes Passie. Moreover, where these diminutives have been passed
down for several generations in a family, their origin is sometimes lost sight of, and the
diminutive becomes the actual baptismal name. In one family of my acquaintance, for example,
the name Passie has long been handed down from mother to daughter. The original great-grandmother
Passie was christened Martha but was at first called Patsy; then, because her black mammy was
also named Patsy, the daughter of the house came to be known, for purposes of differentiation,
as Passie, and when she married and had a daughter of her own, the child was christened Passie.
In this family the name May has more recently been adopted as a middle name, and it is customary
for familiars of the youngest Passie, to address her not merely as Passie, but as Passie-May.
The inclusion of the second name, in this fashion, is another custom not uncommon in the South.
In Atlanta alone I heard of ladies habitually referred to as Anna-Laura, Hattie-May, Lollie-Belle,
Sally-Maud, Nora-Belle, Mattie-Sue, Emma-Belle, Lottie-Belle, Susie-May, Lula-Belle, Sallie-Fannie,
Hattie-Fannie, Lou-Ellen, Allie-Lou, Clara-Belle, Mary-Ella, and Hattie-Belle. Another young
lady was known to her friends as Jennie-D.

The train from Atlanta set us down at Covington, Georgia, or rather at the station which lies
between the towns of Covington and Oxford--for when this railroad was built neither town would
allow it a right of way, and to this day each is connected with the station by a street car
line, either line equipped with one diminutive car, a pair of disconsolate mules, and a driver.
Covington is the County seat, a quiet southern town, part old, part new, with a look of rural
prosperity about it. Stopping at the postoffice to inquire for mail we saw this peremptory
sign displayed:

     When the window is down don't bang around and ask for a stamp or
     two.

     --J.L. CALLAWAY, Postmaster.

As the window was down we tiptoed out and went upon our way, driving through Oxford before
going to the plantation. This town was named for Oxford, England, and is, like its namesake,
a college town. A small and very old Methodist educational institution, with a pretty though
ragged campus and fine trees, is all there is to Oxford, save a row of ante-bellum houses.
One of them, a pleasant white mansion, half concealed by the huge magnolias which stand in
its front yard, was at one time the residence of General Longstreet. The old front gate, hanging
on a stone post, was made by the general with his own hands--and well made, for it is to-day
as good a gate as ever. Corra Harris lived at one time in Oxford; her husband, Rev. Lundy H.
Harris, having been a professor at the college.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though plantation life has necessarily changed since the war, I do not believe that there is
in the whole South a plantation where it has changed less than on the Burge plantation. In
appearance the place is not as Sherman's men found it, for they tore down the fences and ruined
the beautiful old-fashioned garden, and neither has been replaced; nor, of course, is it run,
so far as practical affairs are concerned, as it was before the War; that is to say, instead
of being operated as a unit of nine-hundred acres, it is now worked chiefly on shares, and
is divided up into "one mule farms" and "two mule farms," these being tracts of about thirty
and sixty acres, respectively, thirty acres being approximately the area which can be worked
by a man and a mule.

Practically all the negroes on the place--perhaps a hundred in number--are either former slaves
of the Burge family, or the children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren of slaves who
lived on the plantation. That is one reason why the plantation is less changed in spirit than
are many others. The Burges were religious people, used their slaves kindly, and brought them
up well, so that the negroes on the plantation to-day are respectable, and in some instances,
exemplary people, very different from the vagrant negro type which has developed since the
War, making labor conditions in some parts of the South uncertain, and plantation life, in
some sections, not safe for unprotected women.

The present proprietors of the Burge plantation are two ladies, granddaughters of Mrs. Thomas
Burge, who lived here, a widow, with a little daughter, when General Sherman and his hosts
came by. These ladies frequently spend months at the plantation without male protectors save
only the good negroes of their own place, who look after them with the most affectionate devotion.
True, the ladies keep an ugly looking but mild mannered bulldog, of which the negroes are generally
afraid; true also they carry a revolver when they drive about the country in their motor, and
keep revolvers handy in their rooms; but these precautions are not taken, they told me, because
of any doubts about the men on their place, their one fear being of tramp negroes, passing by.

Of their own negroes several are remarkable, particularly one old couple, perfect examples
of the fine ante-bellum type so much beloved in the South, and so much regretted as it disappears.

During the period of twenty years or more, while the owners were absent, growing up and receiving
their education, the whole place, indoors and out, was in charge of Uncle George and Aunt Sidney.
The two lived, and still do live, in one wing of the house--over which Aunt Sidney presides
as housekeeper and cook, as her mother, Aunt Liddy, did before her. Aunt Liddy died only a
short time ago, aged several years over a hundred. Uncle George supervises all the business
of the plantation, as he has done for thirty or forty years. He collects all rents, markets
the crops and receives the payments, makes purchases, pays bills, and keeps peace between the
tenants--nor could any human being be more honorable or possess a finer, sweeter dignity. As
for devotion, when the little girls who were away returned after all the years as grown women,
every ribbon, every pin in that house was where it had been left, and the place was no less
neat than if the "white folks" had constantly remained there.

Before Georgia went dry it was customary for negroes of the rougher sort to get drunk in town
every Saturday night. Drunken negroes would consequently be passing by, all night, on their
way to their homes, yelling and (after the manner of their kind when intoxicated) shooting
their revolvers in the air. Every Saturday night, when the ladies were at home, Uncle George
would quietly take his gun and place himself on the porch, remaining there until the last of
the obstreperous wayfarers had passed.

Uncle Abe and Uncle Wiley are two other worthy and venerable men who live in cabins on the
place. Both were there when Sherman's army passed upon its devastating way, and both were carried
off, as were thousands upon thousands of other negroes out of that wide belt across the State
of Georgia, which was overrun in the course of the March to the Sea.

"Ah was goin' to mill wid de ox-caht," Uncle Abe told me, "when de soljas dey kim 'long an'
got me. Dey tol' me, 'Heah, nigga! Git out dat caht, an' walk behin'. When it moves you move;
when it stops you stop!' An' like dat Ah walk all de way to Savannah [two hundred and fifty
miles]. Den, after dat, dey took us 'long up No'th--me an' ma brotha Wiley, ovah deh."

I asked him what regiment he went with. He said it was the Twenty-second Indiana, and that
Dr. Joe Stilwell, of that regiment, who came from a place near Madison, Indiana ("Ah reckon
de town was name Brownstown"), was good to him. An officer whom he knew, he said, was Captain
John Snodgrass, and another Major Tom Shay.

"All Ah was evvuh wo'ied about aftuh dey kim tuck me," he declared, "was gittin' somep'n t'
eat. Dat kinda put me on de wonduh, sometahmes, but dey used us all right. Dr. Pegg--him dat
did de practice on de plantation befo' de Wah--he tol' de niggas dat de Yankees would put gags
in deh moufs an' lead 'em eroun' like dey wuz cattle. But deh wa' n't like dat nohow. I b'longed
to de Secon' Division, Thuhd B'gade, Fou'teenth Co' [corps]. Cap'n Snodgrass, he got to be
lieutenant-cuhnel. He was de highes' man Ah evuh hel' any convuhsation wid, but I saw all de
gennuls of dat ahmy."

Uncle Wiley is older than Uncle Abe. He was already a grown man with three children when taken
away by some of Sherman's men. He told me he was with the Fifty-second Ohio, and mentioned
Captain Shepard.

The two brothers got as far as Washington, D.C.

"We got los' togedduh in de U.S. buildin' in dat city," said Uncle Wiley. "De President of
de U.S. right at dat tahme he was daid. He was kill', Ah don' s'pose it wuz a week befo' we
got to Wash'n, D.C."

"How did you happen to come all the way back?" I asked.

"Well-l," ruminated the old man, "home was always a-restin' on mah min'. Ah kep' thinkin' 'bout
home. So aftuh de Wah ceasted Ah jus' kim 'long back."

Many of the old plantation customs still survive. A little before noon the bell is rung to
summon the hands from the cotton fields. Over the red plowed soil you hear a darky cry, a melodious
"Oh-oh-oh!" as wild and musical as the cries of the south-Italian olive gatherers. The planters
cease their work, mules stand still, traces are unhooked from singletrees, and chain-ends thrown
over the mules' backs; then the men mount the animals and ride in to the midday meal, the women
trudging after. Those who rent land, or work on shares, go to their own cabins, while those
employed by the hour or by the day (the rate of pay is ten cents an hour or seventy-five cents
a day) come to the kitchen to be fed. Nor is it customary to stop there at feeding negroes.
As in the old days, any negro who has come upon an errand or who has "stopped by" to sell supplies,
or for whatever purpose, expects to stay for "dinner," and makes it a point to arrive about
noon. Thus from sixteen to twenty negroes are fed daily at the Burge plantation house.

The old Christmas traditions are likewise kept up. On Christmas day the negroes come flocking
up to the house for their gifts. Their first concern is to attempt to cry "Christmas gift!"
to others, before it can be said to them--for according to ancient custom the one who says
the words first must have a gift from the other.

CHAPTER XXXVII

A YOUNG METROPOLIS

An observer approaching a strange city should be "neutral even in thought." He may listen to
what is said of the city, but he must not permit his opinions to take form in advance; for,
like other gossip, gossip about cities is unreliable, and the casual stranger's estimate of
cities is not always founded upon broad appreciations. But though it is unwise to judge of
cities by what is said of them, it is perhaps worth remarking that one may often judge of men
by what they say of cities.

I remember an American manufacturer, broken down by overwork, who, when he looked at Pompeii,
could think only of the wasted possibilities of Vesuvius as a power plant, and I remember two
traveling salesmen on a southern railroad train who expressed scorn for the exquisite city
of Charleston because--they said--it is but a poor market place for suspenders and barbers'
supplies. There are those who think of Boston only as headquarters of the shoe trade, others
who think of it only in the terms of culture, and still others who regard it solely as an abode
of negrophiles.

In the case of the chief city of Alabama, however, my companion and I noticed, as we journeyed
through the South, that reports were singularly in accord. Birmingham is too young to have
any Civil War history. Her history is the history of the steel industry in the South, and one
hears always of that: of the affluence of the city when the industry is thriving, and hard
times when it is not. One is invariably told that Birmingham is not a southern city, but a
northern city in the South, and the chief glories of the place, aside from steel, are (if one
is to believe rumors current upon railroad trains and elsewhere), a twenty-seven story building,
Senator Oscar Underwood, the distinguished Democratic leader, and the Tutwiler Hotel. Even
in Atlanta it is conceded that the Tutwiler is a good hotel, and when Atlanta admits that anything
in Birmingham is good it may be considered as established that the thing is very, very good--for
Birmingham and Atlanta view each other with the same degree of cordiality as is exchanged between
St. Louis and Kansas City, Minneapolis and St. Paul, San Francisco and Los Angeles.

Having been, in the course of our southern wanderings, in several very bad hotels, and having
heard the Tutwiler compared with Chicago's Blackstone, my companion and I held eager anticipation
of this hostelry. Nor were our hopes dashed by a first glimpse of the city on the night of
our arrival. It was a modern-looking city--just the sort of city that would have a fine new
hotel. The railroad station through which we passed after leaving the train was not the usual
dingy little southern station, but an admirable building, and the streets along which we presently
found ourselves gliding in an automobile hack, were wide, smooth, and brightly illuminated
by clustered boulevard lights.

True, we had long since learned not to place too much reliance upon the nocturnal aspects of
cities. A city seen by night is like a woman dressed for a ball. Darkness drapes itself about
her as a black-velvet evening gown, setting off, in place of neck and arms, the softly glowing
façades of marble buildings; lights are her diamond ornaments, and her perfume is the cool
fragrance of night air. Almost all cities, and almost all women, look their best at night,
and there are those which, though beautiful by night, sink, in their daylight aspect, to utter
mediocrity.

Presently our motor drew up before the entrance of the Tutwiler--a proud entrance, all revolving
doors and glitter and promise. A brisk bell boy came running for our bags. The signs were of
the best.

The lobby, though spacious, was crowded; the decorations and equipment were of that rich sumptuousness
attained only in the latest and most magnificent American hotels; there was music, and as we
made our way along we caught a glimpse, in passing, of an attractive supper room, with small
table-lights casting their soft radiance upon white shirt fronts and the faces of pretty girls.
In all it was a place to make glad the heart of the weary traveler, and to cause him to wonder
whether his dress suit would be wrinkled when he took it from his trunk.

Behind the imposing marble "desk" stood several impeccable clerks, and to one of these I addressed
myself, giving our names and mentioning the fact that we had telegraphed for rooms. I am not
sure that this young man wore a braided cutaway and a white carnation; I only know that he
affected me as hotel clerks in braided cutaways and white carnations always do. While I spoke
he stood a little way back from the counter, his chin up, his gaze barely missing the top of
my hat, his nostrils seeming to contract with that expression of dubiousness assumed by delicate
noses which sense, long before they encounter it, the aroma of unworthiness.

"Not a room in the house," he said. Then, as though to forestall further parley, he turned
and spoke with gracious lightness to one of his own rank and occupation who, at the request
of my companion, was ascertaining whether letters were awaiting us.

"But we telegraphed two days ago!" I protested desperately.

"Can't help it. Hardware Convention. Everything taken."

Over my shoulder I heard from my companion a sound, half sigh, half groan, which echoed the
cry of my own heart.

"I felt this coming!" he murmured. "Didn't you notice all these people with ribbons on them?
There's never any room in a hotel where everybody's wearing ribbons. It's like a horse show.
They get the ribbons and we get the gate."

"Surely," I faltered, "you can let us have one small room?"

"Impossible," he answered brightly. "We've turned away dozens of people this evening."

"Then," I said, abandoning hope, "perhaps you will suggest some other hotel?"

I once heard a woman, the most perfect parvenu I ever met, speak of her poor relations in a
tone exactly similar to that in which the clerk now spoke the names of two hotels. Having spoken,
he turned and passed behind the partition at one end of the marble counter.

My companion and I stood there for a moment looking despondently at each other. Then, without
a word, we retreated through that gorgeous lobby, feeling like sad remnants of a defeated Yankee
army.

Again we motored through the bright streets, but only to successive disappointments, for both
hotels mentioned by the austere clerk were "turning 'em away." Our chauffeur now came to our
aid, mentioning several small hotels, and in one of these, the Granada, we were at last so
fortunate as to find lodgings.

"It begun to look like you'd have to put up at the Roden," the chauffeur smiled as we took
our bags out of the car and settled with him.

"The Roden?"

"Yes," he returned "Best ventilated hotel in the United States."

Next day when the Hotel Roden was pointed out to us we appreciated the witticism, for the Roden
is--or was at the time of our visit--merely the steel skeleton of a building which, we were
informed, had for some years stood unfinished owing to disagreements among those concerned
with its construction.

As for the Granada, though a modest place, it was new and clean; the clerk was amiable, the
beds comfortable, and if our rooms were too small to admit our trunks, they were, at all events,
outside rooms, each with a private bath, at a rate of $1 per day apiece. Never in any hotel
have I felt that I was getting so much for my money.

Next morning, after breakfast, we set out to see the city. Having repeatedly heard of Birmingham
as the "Pittsburgh of the South," we expected cold daylight to reveal the sooty signs of her
industrialism, but in this we were agreeably disappointed. By day as well as by night the city
is pleasing to the eye, and it is a fact worth noting that the downtown buildings of Atlanta
(which is not an industrial city) are streaked and dirty, whereas those of Birmingham are clean--the
reason for this being that the mills and furnaces of Birmingham are far removed from the heart
of the town, whereas locomotives belch black smoke into the very center of Atlanta's business
and shopping district.

Moreover, the metropolis of Alabama is better laid out than that of Georgia. The streets of
Birmingham are wide, and the business part of the city, lying upon a flat terrain, is divided
into large, even squares. From this district the chief residence section mounts by easy, graceful
grades into the hills to the southward. Because of these grades, and the curving drives which
follow the contours of the hills, and the vistas of the lower city, and the good modern houses,
and the lawns and trees and shrubbery and breezes, this Highlands region is reminiscent of
a similar residence district in Portland, Oregon--which is to say that it is one of the most
agreeable districts of the kind in the United States.

Well up on the hillside, Highland Avenue winds a charming course between pleasant homes, with
here and there a little residence park branching off to one side, and here and there a small
municipal park occupying an angle formed by a sharp turn in the driveway; and if you follow
the street far enough you will presently see the house of the Birmingham Country Club, standing
upon its green hilltop, amidst rolling, partly wooded golf links, above the road.

Nor is the Country Club at the summit of this range of hills. Back of it rise other roads,
the most picturesque of them being Altamont Road, which runs to the top of Red Mountain, reaching
a height about equivalent to that of the cornice line of Birmingham's tallest building. The
houses of this region are built on streets which, like some streets of Portland, are terraced
into the hillside, and the resident of an upper block can almost look down the chimneys of
his neighbors on the block below. The view commanded from these mountain perches does not suggest
that the lower city runs up into the Highlands. It seems to be a separate place, down in a
distant valley, and the sense of its remoteness is heightened by the thin veil of gray smoke
which wafts from the tall smokestacks of far-off iron furnaces, softening the serrated outlines
of the city and wrapping its tall buildings in the industrial equivalent for autumn haze.

At night the scene from the Highlands is even more spectacular, for at brief intervals the
blowing of a converter in some distant steel plant illuminates the heavens with a great hot
glow, like that which rises and falls about the crater of a volcano in eruption. Thus the city's
vast affairs are kept before it by day in a pillar of cloud, and by night in a pillar of fire.
Iron and steel dominate Birmingham's mind, activities and life. The very ground of Red Mountain
is red because of the iron ore that it contains, and those who reside upon the charming slopes
of this hill do not own their land in fee simple, but subject always to the mineral rights
of mining companies.

The only other industry of Birmingham which is to be compared, in magnitude or efficiency,
with the steel industry is that of "cutting in" at dances. All through the South it is carried
on, but whereas in such cities as Memphis, New Orleans and Atlanta, men show a little mercy
to the stranger--realizing that, as he is presumably unacquainted with all the ladies at a
dance, he cannot retaliate in kind--Birmingham is merciless and prosecutes the pestilential
practice unremittingly, even going so far as to apply the universal-service principle and call
out her highschool youths to carry on the work. Before I went to certain dances in Birmingham
I felt that high-school boys ought to be kept at home at night, but after attending these dances
I realized that such restriction was altogether inadequate, and that the only way to deal with
them effectively would be to pickle them in vitriol.

Where, in other cities of the South, I have managed to dance as much as half a dance without
interruption, I never danced more than twenty feet with one partner in Birmingham. Nor did
my companion.

Our host was energetic in presenting us to ladies of infinite pulchritude and State-wide terpsichorean
reputation, but we would start to tread a measure with them, only to have them swiftly snatched
from us by some spindle-necked, long-wristed, big-boned, bowl-eared high-school youth, in a
dinner suit which used to fit him when it was new, six months ago.

As we would start to dance the lady would say:

"You-all ah strangehs, ahn't you?"

We would reply that we were.

"Wheh do you come from?"

"New York."

Then, because the Hardware Convention was being held in town at the time, she would continue:

"Ah reckon you-all ah hahdware men?"

But that was as far as the conversation ever got. Just about the time that she began to reckon
we were hardware men a mandatory hand would be laid upon us, and before we had time to defend
ourselves against the hardware charge, the lady would be wafted off in the arms of some predatory
youth who ought to have been at home considering pons asinorum.

Had we indeed been hardware men, and had we had our hardware with us, they could have done
with fewer teachers in the high schools of that city after the night of our first dance in
Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

Up in the hills, some miles back of the Country Club, on the banks of a large artificial lake,
stands the new clubhouse of the Birmingham Motor and Country Club, and around the lake runs
the club's two-and-a-half-mile speedway. Elsewhere is the Roebuck Golf Club, the links of which
are admitted ("even in Atlanta!") to be excellent--the one possible objection to the course
of the Birmingham Country Club being that it is suited only to play with irons.

I mention these golfing matters not because they interest me, but because they may interest
you. I am not a golfer. I played the game for two seasons; then I decided to try to lead a
better life. The first time I played I did quite well, but thence onward my game declined until,
toward the last, crowds would collect to hear me play. When I determined to abandon the game
I did not burn my clubs or break them up, according to the usual custom, but instead gave them
to a man upon whom I wished to retaliate because his dog had bitten a member of my family.

Small wonder that all golf clubs have extensive bars! It is not hard to understand why men
who realize that they have become incurable victims of the insidious habit of golf should wish
to drown the thought in drink. But in Birmingham they can't do it--not, at least, at bars.
Alabama has beaten her public bars into soda fountains and quick-lunch rooms, and though her
club bars still look like real ones, the drinks served are so soft that no splash occurs when
reminiscent tears drop into them.

When we were in Alabama each citizen who so desired was allowed by law to import from outside
the State a small allotment of strong drink for personal use, but the red tape involved in
this procedure had already discouraged all but the most ardent drinkers, and those found it
next to impossible, even by hoarding their "lonesome quarts," and pooling supplies with their
convivial friends, to provide sufficient alcoholic drink for a "real party."

We met in Birmingham but one gentleman whose cellars seemed to be well stocked, and the tales
of ingenuity and exertion by which he managed to secure ample supplies of liquor were such
as to lead us to believe that this matter had become, with him, an occupation to which all
other business must give second place.

It was this gentleman who told us that, since the State went dry, the ancient form, "R.S.V.P.,"
on social invitations, had been revised to "B.W.H.P.," signifying, "bring whisky in hip pocket."

To the "B.W.H.P." habit he himself strictly adhered. One night, when we chanced to meet him
in a downtown club, he drew a flask from a hip pocket, and invited us to "have something."

"What is it?" asked my companion.

"Scotch."

When my companion had helped himself he passed the flask to me, but I returned it to the owner,
explaining that I did not drink Scotch whisky.

"What do you drink?" he asked.

"Bourbon."

"Here it is," he returned, drawing a second flask from the other hip pocket.

How well, too, do I remember the long, delightful evening upon which my companion and I sat
in an Atlanta club with a group of the older members, the week before Georgia went bone dry.
There, as in Alabama before 1915, there had been pretended prohibition, but now the bars of
leading clubs were being closed, and convivial men were looking into the future with despair.
One of the gentlemen was a justice of the Supreme Court of the State, and I remember his wistful
declaration that prohibition would fall hardest upon the older men.

"When a man is young," he said, "he can be lively and enjoy himself without drinking, because
he is full of animal spirits. But we older men aren't bubbling over with liveliness. We can't
dance, or don't want to, and we lack the stimulus which comes of falling continually in love.
My great pleasure is to sit of an evening, here at a table in the café of this club, conversing
with my friends. That is where prohibition is going to hurt me. I shall not see my old friends
any more."

The others protested at this somber view, but the judge gravely shook his head, saying: "You
don't believe me, but I know whereof I speak, for I have been through something like this,
in a minor way, before. A good many years ago I was one of a little group of congenial men
to organize a small club. We had comfortable quarters, and we used to drop in at night, much
as we have been doing of late years here, and have the kind of talks that are tonic to the
soul. Of course we had liquor in the club, but there came a time when, for some reason or other--I
think it was some trouble over a license--we closed our bar. We didn't think it was going to
make a great difference, but it did. The men began to stop coming in, and before long the club
ceased to exist.

"It won't be like that here. This club will go on. But we won't come here. We won't want to
sit around a table, like this, and drink ginger ale and sarsaparilla; and even if we do, the
talk won't be so good. The thing that makes me downcast is not that liquor is going, but that
we are really parting this week.

"Every one knows that the abuse of drink does harm in the world, but these pious prohibitionists
are not of the temperament to understand how alcohol ministers to the esthetic side of certain
natures. It gives us better companions and makes us better companions for others. It stimulates
our minds, enhances our appreciations, sharpens our wit, loosens our tongues, and saves brilliant
conversation from becoming a lost art."

My sympathies went out to the judge. It has always seemed to me a pity that the liquor question
has resolved itself into a fight between extremists--for I think the wine and beer people might
survive if they were not tied up with the distillers, and I do not believe that any considerable
evil comes of drinking wine or beer.

Nevertheless it must be apparent to every one who troubles to investigate, that prohibition
invariably works great good wherever it is made effective. Take, for example, Birmingham.

There was one year--I believe it was 1912--when there was an average of more than one murder
a day, for every working day in the year, in the county in which Birmingham is located. On
one famous Saturday night there were nineteen felonious assaults (sixteen by negroes and three
by whites), from which about a dozen deaths resulted, two of those killed having been policemen.

All this has changed with prohibition. Killings are now comparatively rare, arrests have diminished
to less than a third of the former average, whether for grave or petty offenses, and the receiving
jail, which was formerly packed like a pigpen every Saturday night, now stands almost empty,
while the city jail, which used continually to house from 120 to 150 offenders, has diminished
its average population to 30 or 35.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

BUSY BIRMINGHAM

The fact that a man may shut off his motor and coast downhill from his home to his office in
the lower part of Birmingham, is not without symbolism. Birmingham is all business. If I were
to personify the place, it would be in the likeness of a man I know--a big, powerful fellow
with an honest blue eye and an expression in which self-confidence, ambition, and power are
blended. Like Birmingham, this man is a little more than forty years of age. Like Birmingham,
he has built up a large business of his own. And, like Birmingham, he is a little bit naïve
in his pride of success. His life is divided between his office and his home, and it would
be difficult to say for which his devotion is the greater. He talks business with his wife
at breakfast and dinner, and on their Sunday walks. He brings his papers home at night and
goes over them with her, for, though her specialty is bringing up the children, she is deeply
interested in his business and often makes suggestions which he follows. This causes him to
admire her intensely, which he would not necessarily do were she merely a good wife and mother.

He has no hobbies or pastimes. True, he plays golf, but with him golf is not a diversion. He
plays because he finds the exercise increases his efficiency ("efficiency" is perhaps his favorite
word), and because many of his commercial associates are golfers, and he can talk business
with them on the links.

His house is pleasant and stands upon a good-sized city lot. It is filled with very shiny mahogany
furniture and strong-colored portières and sofa cushions. It is rather more of a house than
he requires, for his tastes are simple, but he has a feeling that he ought to have a large
house, for the same reason that he and his wife ought to dress expensively--that is, out of
respect, as it were, to his business.

One of his chief treasures is an automatic piano, upon which he rolls off selections from Wagner's
operas. He likes the music of the great German because, as he has often told me, it stirs his
imagination, thereby helping him to solve business problems and make business plans.

The thing he most abhors is general conversation, and he is never so amusing--so pathetically
and unconsciously amusing--as when trying to take part in general conversation and at the same
time to conceal the writhings of his tortured spirit. There is but one thing which will drive
him to attempt the feat, and that is the necessity of making himself agreeable to some man,
or the wife of some man, from whom he wishes to get business.

The census of 1910 gave Birmingham a population of 132,000, and it is estimated that since
that time the population has increased by 50,000. Birmingham not only knows that it is growing,
but believes in trying to make ready in advance for future growth. It gives one the impression
that it is rather ahead of its housing problems than behind them. Its area, for instance, is
about as great as that of Boston or Cleveland, and its hotels may be compared with the hotels
of those cities. If it has not so many clubs as Atlanta, it has, at least, all the clubs it
needs; and if it has not so many skyscrapers as New York, it has several which would fit nicely
into the Wall Street district. Moreover, the tall buildings of Birmingham lose nothing in height
by contrast with the older buildings, three or four stories high, which surround them, giving
the business district something of that look which hangs about a boy who has outgrown his clothing.
Nor are the vehicles and street crowds, altogether in consonance, as yet, with the fine office
buildings of the city, for many of the motors standing at the curb have about them that gray,
rural look which comes of much mud and infrequent washing, and the idlers who lean against
the rich façades of granite and marble are entirely out of the picture, for they look precisely
like the idlers who lean against the wooden posts of country railroad station platforms.

Such curious contrasts as these may be noted everywhere. For instance, Birmingham has been
so busy paving the streets that it seems quite to have forgotten to put up street signs. Also,
not far from the majestic Tutwiler Hotel, and the imposing apartment building called the Ridgely,
the front of which occupies a full block, is a park so ill kept that it would be a disgrace
to the city but for the obvious fact that the city is growing and wide-awake, and will, of
course, attend to the park when it can find the time. Here are, I believe, the only public
monuments Birmingham contains. One is a Confederate monument in the form of an obelisk, and
the other two are statues erected in memory of Mary A. Cahalan, for many years principal of
the Powell School, and of William Elias B. Davis, a distinguished surgeon. Workers in these
fields are too seldom honored in this way, and the spirit which prompted the erection of these
monuments is particularly creditable; sad to say, however, both effigies are wretchedly placed
and are in themselves exceedingly poor things. Art is something, indeed, about which Birmingham
has much to learn. So far as I could discover, no such thing as an art museum has been contemplated.
But here again the critic should remember that, whereas art is old, Birmingham is young. She
is as yet in the stage of development at which cities think not of art museums, but of municipal
auditoriums; and with the latter subject, at least, she is now concerning herself.

Even in the city's political life contrasts are not wanting, for though the town is Republican
in sentiment, it proves itself southern by voting the Democratic ticket, and it is interesting
to note further that the commission by which it is governed had as one of its five members,
when we were there, a Socialist.

Another curious and individual touch is contributed by the soda-fountain lunch rooms which
abound in the city, and which, I judge, arrived with the disappearance of barroom lunch counters.
In connection with many of the downtown soda fountains there are cooking arrangements, and
business lunches are served.

The roads leading out of the city in various directions have many dangerous grade crossings,
and accidents must be of common occurrence. At all events, I have never known a city in which
cemeteries and undertaking establishments were so widely advertised. In the street cars, for
instance, I observed the cheerful placards of one Wallace Johns, undertaker, who promises "all
the attention you would expect from a friend," and I was informed that Mr. Johns possesses
business cards (for restricted use only) bearing the gay legend: "I'll get you yet!"

As to schools the city is well off. Dr. J.H. Phillips, superintendent of public schools, has
occupied his post probably as long as any school superintendent in the country. He organized
the city school system in 1883, beginning with seven teachers, as against 750 now employed.
The colored schools are reported to be better than in most southern cities.

Of the general status of the negro in Birmingham I cannot speak with authority. As in Atlanta,
negroes are sometimes required to use separate elevators in office buildings, and, as everywhere
south of Washington, the Birmingham street cars give one end to whites and the other to negroes.
But whereas negroes use the back of the car in Atlanta, they use the front in Birmingham. It
was attempted, at one time, to reverse this order, for reasons having to do with draft and
ventilation, but the people of Birmingham had become accustomed to the existing arrangement
and objected to the change. "After all," one gentleman said to me, in speaking of this matter,
"it is not important which end of the car is given to the nigger. The main point is that he
must sit where he is told."

The means by which the negro vote is eliminated in various Southern States are generally similar,
though Alabama has, perhaps, been more thorough in the matter than some other States. The importance
of this issue to the southern white man is very great, for if all negroes were allowed to vote
the control of certain States would be in negro hands. To the Southerner such an idea is intolerable,
and it is my confident belief that if the State of Alabama were resettled by men from Massachusetts,
and the same problems were presented to those men, they would be just as quick as the white
Alabamans of to-day to find means to suppress the negro vote. With all my heart I wish that
such an exchange of citizens might temporarily be effected, for when the immigrants from Massachusetts
moved back to their native New England, after an experience of the black belt, they would take
with them an understanding of certain aspects of the negro problem which they have never understood;
an understanding which, had they possessed it sixty or seventy years ago, might have brought
about the freeing of slaves by government purchase--a course which Lincoln advocated and which
would probably have prevented the Civil War, and thereby saved millions upon millions of money,
to say nothing of countless lives. Had they even understood the problems of the South at the
end of the Civil War, the horrors of Reconstruction might have been avoided, and I cannot too
often reiterate that, but for Reconstruction we should not be perplexed, to-day, by the unhappy,
soggy mass of political inertia known as the Solid South.

I asked a former State official how the negro vote had been eliminated in Alabama. "At first,"
he said, "we used to kill them to keep them from voting; when we got sick of doing that we
began to steal their ballots; and when stealing their ballots got to troubling our consciences
we decided to handle the matter legally, fixing it so they couldn't vote."

I inquired as to details. He explained.

It seems that in 1901 a constitutional convention was held, at which it was enacted that, in
order to be eligible for life to vote, citizens must register during the next two years. There
were, however, certain qualifications prescribed for registration. A man must be of good character,
and must have fought in a war, or be the descendant of a person who had fought. This enactment,
known as the "grandfather clause," went far toward the elimination of the negro. As an additional
safeguard, however, an educational clause was added, but the educational requirement did not
become effective at once, as that would have made illiterate whites ineligible as voters. Not
until the latter were safely registered under the "grandfather clause," was the educational
clause applied, and as, under this clause, the would-be voter must read and write to the satisfaction
of his examiner, the negro's chance to get suffrage was still more reduced.

The United States Supreme Court has, I believe, held that the educational clause does not constitute
race discrimination.

As though the above measures were not sufficient, it is further required that, in order to
vote at November elections in Alabama, voters must pay a small voluntary poll tax. This tax,
however, must be paid each year before February first--that is, about nine months before elections
actually take place. The negro has never been distinguished for his foresightedness with a
dollar, and, to make matters harder for him, this tax is cumulative from the year 1901, so
that a man who wishes to begin to vote this year, and can qualify in other respects, must pay
a tax amounting to nearly twenty dollars.

These measures give Alabama, as my informant put it, a "very exclusive electorate." With a
population of approximately two millions, the greatest number of votes ever cast by the State
was 125,000. Of this number, 531 votes were those of negroes, "representing" a colored population
of 840,000!

The gentleman who explained these matters also told me a story illustrative of the old-time
Southerner's attitude toward the negro in politics.

During Reconstruction, when Alabama's Legislature was about one-third white and two-thirds
negro, a fine old gentleman who had been a slaveholder and was an experienced parliamentarian,
was attempting to preside over the Legislature. In this he experienced much difficulty, his
greatest bête noir being a negro member, full of oratory, who continually interrupted other
speakers.

Realizing that this was a part of the new order of things, the presiding officer tried not
to allow his irritation to get the better of him, and to silence the objectionable man in parliamentary
fashion. "The member will kindly come to order!" he repeated over and over, rapping with his
gavel. "The member will kindly come to order!"

After this had gone on for some time without effect, the old gentleman's patience became exhausted.
He laid down his gavel, arose to his feet, glared at the irrepressible member, and, shaking
his finger savagely, shouted: "Sit down, you blankety-blank black blankety-blank!"

Whereupon the negro dropped instantly to his seat and was no more heard from.

CHAPTER XXXIX

AN ALLEGORY OF ACHIEVEMENT

To visit Birmingham without seeing an iron and steel plant would be like visiting Rome without
seeing the Forum. Consequently my companion and I made application for permission to go through
the Tennessee Coal, Iron, & Railroad Company's plant, at Ensley, on the outskirts of the city.
When the permission was refused us we attacked from another angle--using influence--and were
refused again. Next we called upon a high official of the company, and (as we had, of course,
done in making our previous requests for admission to the plant) explained our errand.

Though this gentleman received us with the utmost courtesy, he declared that the company desired
no publicity, and plainly indicated that he was not disposed to let us into the plant.

"I'll tell you what the trouble is," said my companion to me. "This company is a part of the
United States Steel Corporation, and in the old muckraking days it was thoroughly raked. They
think that we have come down here full of passionate feeling over the poor, downtrodden workingman
and the great, greedy octopus."

"What makes you think that?"

"Well, we are a writer and an artist. Lots of writers and artists have made good livings by
teaching magazine readers that it is dishonest for a corporation, or a corporation official,
to prosper; that the way to integrity is through insolvency; that the word 'company' is a term
of reproach, while 'corporation' is a foul epithet, and 'trust' blasphemy."

"What shall we do?"

"We must make it clear to these people," he said, "that we have no mission. We must satisfy
them that we are not reformers--that we didn't come to dig out a red-hot story, but to see
red-hot rails rolled out."

Pursuing this course, we were successful. All that any official of the company required of
us was that we be open-minded. The position of the company, when we came to understand it,
was simply that it did not wish to facilitate the work of men who came down with pencils, paper,
and preconceived "views," deliberately to play the great American game of "swat the corporation."

       *       *       *       *       *

Surely there is not in the world an industry which, for sheer pictorial magnificence, rivals
the modern manufacturing of steel. In the first place, the scale of everything is inexpressibly
stupendous. To speak of a row of six blast furnaces, with mouths a hundred feet above the ground,
and chimneys rising perhaps another hundred feet above these mouths, is not, perhaps, impressive,
but to look at such a row of furnaces, to see their fodder of ore, dolomite, and coke brought
in by train loads; to see it fed to them by the "skip"; to hear them roar continually for more;
to feel the savage heat generated within their bodies; to be told in shouts, above the din,
something of what is going on inside these vast, voracious, savage monsters, and to see them
dripping their white-hot blood when they are picked by a long steel bar in the hands of an
atom of a man--this is to witness an almost terrifying allegory of mankind's achievement.

The gas generated by blast furnaces is used in part in the hot-blast stoves--gigantic tanks
from which hot air, at very high pressure, is admitted to the furnaces themselves, and is also
used to develop steam for the blowing engines and other auxiliaries. In the furnaces the molten
iron, because of its greater specific gravity, settles to the bottom, while the slag floats
to the top. The slag, by the way, is not, as I had supposed, altogether worthless, but is used
for railroad ballast and in the manufacture of cement.

The molten iron drawn from the blast furnaces runs in glittering rivulets (which, at a distance
of twenty or thirty feet, burn the face and the eyes), into ladle cars which are like a string
of devils' soup bowls, mounted on railroad trucks ready to be hauled away by a locomotive and
served at a banquet in hell.

That is not what happens to them, however. The locomotive takes them to another part of the
plant, and their contents, still molten, is poured into the mixers. These are gigantic caldrons
as high as houses, which stand in rows in an open-sided steel shed, and the chief purpose of
them is to keep the "soup" hot until it is required for the converters--when it is again poured
off into ladle cars and drawn away.

The converters are in still another part of the grounds. They are huge, pear-shaped retorts,
resembling in their action those teakettles which hang on stands and are poured by being tilted.
But a million teakettles could be lost in one converter, and the boiling water from a million
teakettles, poured into a converter, would be as one single drop of ice water let fall into
a red-hot stove.

In the converters the metalloids--silicon, manganese, and carbon--are burned out of the iron
under a flaming heat which, by means of high air pressure, is brought to a temperature of about
3400 degrees. It is the blowing of these converters, and the occasional pouring of them, which
throws the Vesuvian glow upon the skies of Birmingham at night. The heat they give off is beyond
description. Several hundred feet away you feel it smiting viciously upon your face, and the
concrete flooring of the huge shed in which they stand is so hot as to burn your feet through
the soles of your shoes.

The most elaborate display of fireworks ever devised by Mr. Pain would be but a poor thing
compared with the spectacle presented when a converter is poured. The whole world glows with
golden heat, and is filled with an explosion of brilliant sparks, and as the molten metal passes
out into the sunlight that light is by contrast so feeble that it seems almost to cast a shadow
over the white-hot vats of iron.

Next come the tilting open-hearth furnaces, where the iron is subjected to the action of lime
at a very high temperature. This removes the phosphorus and leaves a bath of commercially pure
iron which is then "teemed" into a hundred-ton ladle, wherein it is treated in such a way as
to give it the properties required in the finished steel. What these properties may be, depends,
of course, upon the purpose to which the steel is to be put. Rails, for example, must, above
all, resist abrasion, and consequently have a higher carbon content than, say, reinforcing
bars for concrete work. To obtain various qualities in steel are added carbon, ferro-manganese,
or ferro-silicon in proportions differing according to requirements.

In the next process steel ingots are made. I lost track of the exact detail of this, but I
remember seeing the ingots riding about in their own steel cars, turning to an orange color
as they cooled, and I remember seeing them pounded by a hammer that stood up in the air like
an elevated railroad station, and I know that pretty soon they got into the blooming mill and
were rolled out into "blooms," after which they were handled by a huge contrivance like a thumb
and forefinger of steel which--though the blooms weigh five tons apiece--picked them up much
as you might pick up a stick of red candy.

Still orange-hot, the blooms find their way to the rolling mill, where they go dashing back
and forth upon rollers and between rollers--the latter working in pairs like the rollers of
large wringers, squeezing the blooms, in their successive passages, to greater length and greater
thinness, until at last they take the form of long, red, glowing rails; after which they are
sawed off, to the accompaniment of a spray of white sparks, into rail lengths, and run outside
to cool. And I may add that, while there is more brilliant heat to be seen in many other departments
of the plant, there is no department in which the color is more beautiful than in the piles
of rails on the cooling beds--some of them still red as they come from the rollers, others
shading off to rose and pink, and finally to their normal cold steel-gray.

Presently along comes a great electromagnet; from somewhere in the sky it drops down and touches
the rails; when it rises bunches of them rise with it, and, after sailing through the air,
are gently deposited upon flat cars. Here, even after the current is shut off, some of them
may try to stick to the magnet, as though fearing to go forth into the world. If so, it gives
them a little shake, whereupon they let go, and it travels back to get more rails and load
them on the cars.

Iron ore, coal, and limestone, the three chief materials used in the making of steel, are all
found in the hills in the immediate vicinity of Birmingham. I am told that there is no other
place in the world where the three exist so close together. That is an impressive fact, but
one grows so accustomed to impressive facts, while passing through this plant, that one ceases
to be impressed, becoming merely dazed.

There were some four thousand men in the plant, I believe, at the time we were there, but excepting
when a shift changed, and a great army passed out through the gates, we never saw a crowd;
indeed I hardly think we saw a group of any size. Here and there two or three men would be
doing something--something which, probably, we did not understand; in the window of a locomotive
cab, or that of a traveling crane, we would see a man; we kept passing men as we went along;
and sometimes as we looked from a high perch over the interior of one of the great sheds, we
would be vaguely conscious of men scattered about the place. But they were very small and gray
and inconspicuous dots upon the surface of great things going on--going on, seemingly by themselves,
with a sort of mad, mechanical, majestic, molten sweep.

       *       *       *       *       *

At this time, when the great efficient organization started by Bismarck is being devoted entirely
to destruction, it is interesting to recall that the idea of industrial welfare work originated
in Germany during the period of Bismarckian reorganization. So, paradoxically, the very forces
which, on one hand, were building towards the new records for the extinction of life established
in the present war, were, upon the other hand, developing plans for the safeguarding of life
and for making it worth living--plans which have enormously affected the industrial existence
of the civilized world.

The broad theory of industrial welfare work was brought to this country by engineers, chemists,
and workmen who had resided in Germany; but, where this work developed over there along coöperative
lines, it has remained for Great Britain and the United States to work it out in a more individualistic
way.

In this country welfare work has come as a logical part of the general industrial development.
The first step in this development was the assembling of small, weak industrial units into
large, powerful, effective units--that is to say, the formation of great corporations and trusts.
The second step was the coördination of these great industrial alliances for "efficiency."
The third step was the achievement of material success.

When our great corporations were in their formative period, effort was concentrated on making
them successful, but with success came thoughts of other things. It began to be seen, for example,
that whereas the old small employer of labor came into personal contact with his handful of
workmen, and could himself supervise their welfare, some plan must now be devised for doing
this work in a large, corporate way.

Thus welfare work developed in the United States, and it is interesting to observe, now, that
many of our great corporations are finding time and funds to expend upon purely æsthetic improvements,
and that, in the construction of the most modern American industrial plants, architects, landscape
gardeners, and engineering men work in coöperation, so that, instead of being lopsided, the
developments are harmonious and oftentimes beautiful.

On work calculated to prevent accidents in mines, not only the Tennessee Coal, Iron, & Railroad
Company, but all the leading mining companies in the State join for conference. As a result
the number of accidents steadily decreases. Nine years ago one man was killed, on an average,
for every 100,000 tons of iron ore raised. The record at the time of our visit was one man
to 450,000 tons. In the coal mines, where nine years ago one man was killed for every 75,000
tons raised, the recent record is one man for 650,000 tons.

In 1914, 126 men were killed in the coal mines of Alabama. In 1915, though the tonnage was
about the same, this number was reduced to 63, which was a record. All this is the result of
safety work.

"Aside from humane considerations," said an official of the Tennessee Company, "this concern
realizes that the man is the most valuable machine it has."

This gentleman was one of the ablest men we met in the South. While taking us through the company's
plant, and explaining to us the various operations, he was interesting, but the real enthusiasm
of the man did not crop out until he took us to the company's villages and showed us what was
being done for the benefit of operatives and their families, and, of course, for the benefit
of the company as well--for he was a corporation official of the modern school, and he knew
that by benefiting its men a corporation necessarily benefits itself.

The story of the Tennessee Company's work among its employees, which began about five years
ago, some time after the company was taken over by the United States Steel Corporation, is
too great to be more than touched on here. In the department of health thirty-six doctors,
sixteen nurses, and a squad of sanitary inspectors are employed. The department of social science
covers education, welfare, and horticulture. To me the work of these departments was a revelation.
Each camp has a first-rate hospital, each has its schools and guildhall, and everything is
run as only an efficiently managed corporation can run things.

The Docena Village is less like one's idea of a coal "camp" than of a pretty suburban development,
or a military post, with officers' houses built around a parade. The grounds are well kept;
there is a tennis court with vine-clad trellises about it, a fine playground for children,
pretty brick walks, with splendid trees to shade them; and there is a brick schoolhouse which
is a better building, better equipped, better lighted, and, above all, better ventilated than
the schools I attended in my boyhood.

Near the school is the guildhall, which is used for religious services, meetings, and entertainments.
And best of all, perhaps, the houses are not the rows of sad, unpainted cabins one remembers
having seen in western mining camps, but are pretty cottages, touched with a slight architectural
variety, and with little variations of color, so that each home has individuality.

The schools are financed partly by the company and partly by the parents of the three thousand
scholars. The teachers are, for the most part, graduates of leading colleges--Smith, Wellesley,
Vassar, the University of Chicago, the University of Wisconsin--and educational work of great
variety is carried on, including instruction in English for foreign employees, and domestic-science
classes for women--separate establishments, of course, for whites and blacks, for the color
line is drawn in southern mining camps as elsewhere. Negroes are, however, better provided
for by the corporation than by most southern municipalities, both in the way of living conditions
and of education.

On the whole, I believe that a child who grows up in the Docena Village, and is educated there,
has actually a better chance than one who grows up in most Alabama towns, or, for the matter
of that, in towns in any other State which has not compulsory education. Moreover, I doubt
that there is in all Alabama another kindergarten as truly charming as the one we visited at
Docena, or that there is, in the State, a schoolhouse of the same size which is as perfect
as the one we saw in that camp.

In another camp old houses have been remodeled, giving practical demonstration of what can
be done in the way of making a hovel into a pretty home by the intelligent use of a little
lattice-work, a little paint, and a few vines and flowers. Old boarding-houses in this neighborhood
have been converted into community houses, with entertainment halls, shower baths, and other
conveniences for the men and their families. Thus tests are being made to discover whether
it is possible to encourage among certain classes of foreign laborers, whose habits of life
have not, to put it mildly, been of the tidiest, some appreciation of the standard of civilization
represented by clean, pretty cottages, pleasant meeting houses, and shower baths.

I have not told about the billiard tables, bowling alleys, and game rooms of the clubs, nor
about the model rooms fitted up to show housewives how they may make their homes attractive
at but slight expense, nor about the annual medical examination of the children, nor about
the company dentists who charge their patients only for the cost of gold actually used, nor
about the fine company store at Edgewater Mine, nor about the excellent meats supplied by the
company butchers, nor about the low prices of supplies, nor about the effort to discourage
employees from buying cheap furniture at high prices on the installment plan, nor, above all,
about the clean, decent, happy look of the families we chanced to see.

Even had I the space in which to tell of these things, it is perhaps wiser that I refrain from
doing so. For I am aware that in speaking anything but ill of a great corporation I have scandalously
outraged precedent. Nor does it argue well for my powers of observation, or those of my companion.
I feel confident that where our limited visions perceived only prosperity and contentment,
certain of my brother writers, and his brother illustrators would, in our places, have rent
the thin, vaporish veil of apparent corporate kindliness, and found such foul shame, such hideous
malignity, such grasping, grubby greed, such despicable soul-destroying despotism, as to shock
the simple nature of a chief of the old-time Russian Secret Police.

It shames me to think what my friend Lincoln Steffens could have done had he but enjoyed my
opportunities. It shames me to think what John Reed or other gifted writers for "The Masses"
could have done. And I should think that Wallace Morgan would writhe with shame. For, where
Art Young would have seen heavy-jowled, pig-eyed Capital, in a silk hat and a checked suit,
whirling a cruel knout over the broad and noble (but bent and shuddering) back of Labor--where
Boardman Robinson would have found a mother, her white, drawn face half hidden by the shoddy
shawl of black, to which cling the hands of her emaciated brood--what has Wallace Morgan seen?

A steel-plant in operation. A company steel-plant! A corporation steel-plant! A TRUST steel-plant.

Yet never so much as a starving cat or a pile of garbage in the foreground!

CHAPTER XL

THE ROAD TO ARCADY

Before we saw the train which was to take us from Birmingham to Columbus, Mississippi, we began
to sense its quality. When we attempted to purchase parlor car seats of the ticket agent at
the Union Station and were informed by him that our train carried no parlor car, it seemed
to us that his manner was touched with cynicism, and this impression was confirmed by his reply
to our further timid inquiry as to a dining car:

"Where do you gentlemen reckon you're a-goin' to, anyhow?"

Presently we passed through the gate and better understood the nature of the ticket agent's
thoughts. The train consisted of several untidy day coaches, the first a Jim Crow car, the
others for white people. The negro car was already so full that many of its occupants had to
stand in the aisle, but this did not seem to trouble them, for all were gabbling happily, and
the impression one got, in glancing through the door, was of many sets of handsome white teeth
displayed in as many dark grinning faces. There are innumerable things for which we cannot
envy the negro, but neither his teeth nor his good nature are among them.

It was Saturday afternoon, and the two or three other cars, though not overcrowded, were well
filled with people from the neighboring mining towns who were going home after having spent
the morning shopping in the city. Almost all our fellow passengers carried packages, many had
infants with them, and we were struck with the fact that the complexions of these people suggested
a diet of pie--fried pie, if there be such a thing--that a peculiarly high percentage of them
suffered from diseases of the eye, and that the pervading smell of the car in which we sat
was of oranges, bananas, babies, and overheated adults.

A young mother in the seat in front of us had with her three small children, the youngest an
infant in arms. She was feeding a banana to the second child, who looked about two years old.
Behind us a clean, capable-looking woman talked in a broad Scottish dialect with another housewife
whose jargon was that of the mountaineers.

The region through which the train presently began to wind its way was green and hilly, and
there were many stops at villages, all of them mining camps apparently, made up of shabby little
cabins scattered helter-skelter upon the hillsides. In many of the cabin doorways mothers lingered
with their broods watching the train, and on all the station platforms stood crowds of idlers--men,
women, and children, negro and white--many of the men stamped, by their coal-begrimed faces,
their stained overalls, and the lamps above the visors of their caps, as mine workers.

After a time my companion and I moved to the exceedingly dirty smoking room at the end of the
car, where we sat and listened to the homely conversation of a group of men who seemed not
only to know one another, but to know the same people in towns along the line. Between stations
they gossiped, smoked, chewed, spat, and swore together like so many New England crossroad
sages, but when the train stopped they gave encouraging attention to the droll performances
of one of their number, a shaggy, unshaven, rawboned man, of middle age, gray-haired and collarless,
who sat near the window and uttered convincing imitations of the sounds made by chickens, roosters,
pigs, goats, and crows.

The platform crowds, the negroes in particular, were mystified and lured by this animal chorus
coming from a passenger coach. On hearing it they would first gaze in astonishment at the car,
then edge up to the windows and doors, and peer in with eyes solemn, round, and wondering,
only to be more amazed than ever by the discovery that the car housed neither bird nor beast.
This bucolic comedy was repeated at every station until we reached Wyatt, Alabama, where our
gifted fellow traveler arose, pointed his collar button toward the door, bade us farewell,
and departed, saying that he was going to "walk over to Democrat."

Presently the conductor dropped in for a chat, in the course of which he informed the assembly
that a certain old lady in one of the towns along the way had died the night before, whereupon
our companions of the smoking room, all of whom seemed to have known the old lady well, held
a protracted discussion of her history and traits.

After a time my companion and I put in a few questions about the State of Mississippi. Boiled
down, the principal information we gathered was as follows:

By the 1910 census Mississippi had not one city of 25,000 inhabitants. Meridian, with 23,000,
was (and probably still is) her metropolis, with Jackson and Vicksburg, cities of about 20,000
each, following. The entire State has but fifteen cities having a population of 5000 or more,
so that, of a total of about a million and three-quarters of people in the State (more than
half of them colored), only about one-tenth live in towns with a population of 5000 or over.

After a little visit the conductor went away. Now and then a man would leave us and get off
at a station, or some new passenger would join our group. Presently I found myself thinking
about dinner, and asked a man wearing an electric-blue cap if he knew what provision was made
for the evening meal.

Before he could reply the train boy, who had come into the smoking room a few minutes before,
piped up. He was a train boy of a type I had supposed extinct: the kind of train boy one might
have encountered on almost any second-rate train twenty years ago,--a bold, impudent young
smartaleck, full of insistent salesmanship and obnoxious conversation. He declared that dinner
was not to be had, and that the only sustenance available en route consisted in the uninviting
assortment of fruit, nuts, candy, and sweet tepid beverages contained in his basket.

Fortunately for us, the man we had addressed knew better.

"What do you want to lie like that for, boy?" he demanded. "You know as well as I do that the
brakeman takes on five boxes of lunch at Covin."

"Well," said the boy, with a grin, "I gotta sell things, ain't I? The brakeman hadn't oughta
have that graft anyhow. I'd oughta have it. He gets them lunches fer two bits and sells 'em
for thirty-five cents." Far from feeling abashed, he was pleased with himself.

"Folks is funny people," remarked a man with a weather-beaten face who sat in the corner seat,
and seemed to be addressing no one in particular. "I know a boy that's going to git hung some
day. And when they've got the noose rigged nice around his neck, and everything ready, and
the trap a-waitin' to be sprung, why, then that boy is goin' to be so sorry for hisself that
he won't hardly know what to do. He'll say: 'I ain't never had no chance in life, I ain't.
The world ain't never used me right.' ... Yes, folks is funny people."

After this soliloquy there occurred a brief silence in the smoking room, and presently the
train boy took up his basket and went upon his way.

"You say they take on the lunches at Covin now?" one of the passengers asked of the man in
the electric-blue cap.

"Yes."

"What's become of old man Whitney, over to Fayetteville?"

"They used to git lunches off of him," replied the other, "but the old man wasn't none too
dependable. Now and then he'd oversleep, and folks on the 5 A.M. out of Columbus was like to
starve for breakfast."

"Right smart shock-headed boy the old man's got," put in another. "The old man gives 'im anything
he wants. He wanted a motorcycle, and the old man give 'im one. Then he wanted one of them
hot-candy machines; they cost about two hundred and fifty dollars, but the old man give it
to 'im just the same."

"The kid went to San Francisco with it, didn't he?" asked the man with the electric-blue cap.

"He started to go there," replied the former speaker, "but he only got as fur as Little Rock;
then he come on back home, and the old man bought 'im a wireless-telegraph plant. Yeaup! That
boy gets messages right outa the air--from Washington, D.C., and Berlin, and every place. The
Govamunt don't allow 'im to tell you much of it. He tells a little, though--just to give you
a notion."

So, through the five-hour ride the conversation ran. Several times the talk drifted to politics
and to the European War, but the politics discussed were local and lopsided, and the war was
all too clearly regarded as something interesting but vague and remote. On the entire journey
not one word was spoken indicating that the people of this section had the least grasp on any
national question, or that they were considering national questions, or that they realized
what the war in Europe is about--that it is a war for freedom and democracy, a war against
war, a war to prevent a few individuals from ever again plunging the world into war. Nor, though
the day of our entry into the war was close at hand, had the idea that we might be forced to
take part in the conflict so much as occurred to any of them.

They were not stupid people; on the contrary, some of them possessed a homely and picturesque
philosophy; but they were not informed, and the reason they were not informed has to do with
one of the chief needs of our rural population--especially the rural population of the South.

What they need is good newspapers. They need more world news and national news in place of
county news and local briefs. In the whole South, moreover, there is need for general political
news instead of biased news written always from inside the Democratic party, and sandwiched
in between patent medicine advertisements.

CHAPTER XLI

A MISSISSIPPI TOWN

It was dark when, after a journey of one hundred and twenty miles at the rate of twenty miles
an hour, we reached Columbus, a city which was never intended to be a metropolis and which
will never be one.

Columbus is situated upon a bluff on the east bank of the Tombigbee River, to the west of which
is a very fertile lowland region, filled with plantations, the owners of which, a century ago,
founded the town in order that their families might have churches, schools, and the advantages
of social life. As the town grew, a curious but entirely natural community spirit developed;
when a gas plant, water works, or hotel was needed, prosperous citizens got together and financed
the enterprise, not so much for profit as for mutual comfort.

In these ante bellum times the planters used to make annual journeys to Mobile and New Orleans,
going by boat on the Tombigbee and taking their crops and their families with them. After selling
their cotton and enjoying themselves in the city, they would load supplies for the ensuing
year upon river boats and return to Columbus, where the supplies were transferred to their
vast attic storerooms.

Though their only water transportation was to the southward, they did not journey invariably
in that direction, but sometimes made excursions to such fashionable watering places as the
Virginia Springs, or Saratoga, to which they drove in their own carriages.

When, in the early days of railroad building, the Mobile & Ohio Railroad was being planned,
the company proposed to include Columbus as one of its main-line points and asked for a right
of way through the town and a cash bonus in consideration of the benefits Columbus would derive
from railroad service. Both requests were refused. The railroad company then waived the bonus
and attempted to obtain a right of way by purchase. But to no purpose. The citizens would not
sell. They did not want a railroad. They were prosperous and healthy, and they contended that
a railroad would bring poor people and disease among them, besides killing farm animals and
causing runaways. The company was consequently forced to make a new survey, and when the line
was built it passed at a distance of a dozen miles or more from the city.

Gradually dawned the era of speed and impatience. People who had hitherto been satisfied to
make long journeys in horse-drawn vehicles, and had refused the railroad a right of way, now
began to complain of the twelve-mile drive to the nearest station, and to suggest that the
company build a branch line into the town. But this time it was the railroad's turn to say
no, and Columbus was informed that if it wished a branch line it could go ahead and build it
at its own expense. This was finally done at a cost of fifty thousand dollars.

With the construction of the branch line, carriages fell into disuse and dilapidation, and
many an old barouche, landau, and brett passed into the hands of the negro hackmen who were
former slaves of the old families. Among these ex-slaves the traditions of the first families
of Columbus were upheld long after the war, and it thus happened that when, a few years since,
a young New Yorker, arriving for a visit in the town, alighted from his train, he was greeted
by an ancient negro who, indicating an equally ancient carriage, cried: "Hack, suh! Hack, suh!
Ain't nevah been rid in by none but the Billupses."

Not every young man from the North would have understood this reference, but by a coincidence
it was at the residence of Mrs. Billups that this one had come to visit.

Neither as to hack nor habitation were my companion and I so fortunate as the earlier visitor.
Our conveyance was a Ford, and the driver warned us, as we progressed through shadowy tree-bordered
streets, that the Gilmer Hotel was crowded with delegates who had come to attend the State
convention of the Order of the Eastern Star. Nor was his warning without foundation. The wide
old-fashioned lobby of the Gilmer was hung with the colors of the Order and packed with Ladies
of the Eastern Star and their ecstatic families; we managed to make our way through the press
only to be told by the single worn-out clerk on duty that not a room was to be had.

Unlike the haughty clerk who had dismissed us from the Tutwiler Hotel in Birmingham, the clerk
at the Gilmer was not without the quality of mercy. Overworked though he was, he began at once
to telephone about the town in an effort to secure us rooms. But if this led us to conclude
that our problem was thereby in effect solved, we discovered, after listening to his brief
telephonic conversations with a series of unseen ladies, that the conclusion was premature.
Though there were vacant rooms in several private houses, strange stray males were not desired
as lodgers.

Concerned as we were over our plight, my companion and I could not help being aware that a
young lady who had been standing at the desk when we came in, and had since remained there,
was taking kindly interest in the situation. Nor, for the matter of that, could we help being
aware, also, that she was very pretty in her soft black dress and corsage of narcissus. She
did not speak to us; indeed, she hardly honored us with a glance; but, despite her sweet circumspection,
we sensed in some subtle way that she was sorry for us, and were cheered thereby.

After a time, when the clerk seemed to have reached the end of his resources, the young lady
hesitantly ventured some suggestions as to other houses where rooms might possibly be had.
These suggestions she addressed entirely to the clerk--who, upon receiving them, did more telephoning.

"Have you tried Mrs. Eichelberger?" the young lady asked him, after several more failures.

He had not, but promptly did so. His conversation with Mrs. Eichelberger started promisingly,
but presently we heard him make the damning admission he had been compelled repeatedly to make
before:

"No, ma'am. It's two men."

Then, just as the last hope seemed to be fading, our angel of mercy spoke again.

"Wait!" she put in impulsively. "Tell her--tell her I recommend them."

Thus informed, Mrs. Eichelberger became compliant; but when the details were arranged, and
we turned to thank our benefactor, she had fled.

Mrs. Eichelberger's house was but a few blocks distant from the Gilmer. She installed us in
two large, comfortable rooms, remarking, as we entered, that we had better hurry, as we were
already late.

"Late for what?" one of us asked.

"Didn't you come for the senior dramatics?"

"Senior dramatics where?"

"At the I.I. and C."

"What is the I.I. and C?"

At this question a look of doubt, if not suspicion, crossed the lady's face.

"Where are you-all from?" she demanded.

The statement that we came from New York seemed to explain satisfactorily our ignorance of
the I.I. and C. Evidently Mrs. Eichelberger expected little of New Yorkers. The I.I. and C.,
she explained, was the Mississippi Industrial Institute and College, formerly known as the
Female College, a State institution for young women; and the senior dramatics were even then
in progress in the college chapel, just up the street.

To the chapel, therefore, my companion and I repaired as rapidly as might be, guided thither
by frequent sounds of applause.

From among the seniors standing guard in cap and gown at the chapel door, the quick artistic
eye of my companion selected a brown-eyed auburn-haired young goddess as the one from whom
tickets might most appropriately be bought. Nor did he display thrift in the transaction. Instead
of buying modest quarter seats he magnificently purchased the fifty-cent kind.

The dazzling ticket seller, transformed to usher, now led us into the crowded auditorium and
down an aisle. A few rows from the stage she stopped, and, fastening a frigid gaze upon two
hapless young women who were seated some distance in from the passageway, bade them emerge
and yield their place to us.

Of course we instantly protested, albeit in whispers, as the play was going on. But the beautiful
Olympian lightly brushed aside our objections.

"They don't belong here," she declared loftily. "They're freshmen--and they only bought quarter
seats."

Then, as the guilty pair seemed to hesitate, she summoned them with a compelling gesture and
the command: "Come out!"

At this they arose meekly enough, whereupon we redoubled our protests. But to no purpose. The
Titian-tinted creature was relentless. Our pleas figured no more in her scheme of things than
if they had been babblings in an unknown tongue. To add to our discomfiture, a large part of
the audience seemed to have perceived the nature of our dilemma, and was giving us amused attention.

It was a crisis; and in a crisis--especially one in which a member of the so-called gentle
sex is involved--I have learned to look to my companion. He understands women. He has often
told me so. And now, by his action, he proved it. What he did was to turn and flee, and I fled
with him; nor did we pause until we were safely hidden away in humble twenty-five cent seats
at the rear of the chapel, in the shadow of the overhanging gallery.

It is not my intention to write an extended criticism of the performance. For one thing, I
witnessed only a fragment of it, and for another, though I once acted for a brief period as
dramatic critic on a New York newspaper, I was advised by my managing editor to give up dramatic
criticism, and I have followed his advice.

The scene evidently represented a room, its walls made of red screens behind which rose the
lofty pipes of the chapel organ. On a pedestal at one side stood a bust of the Venus de Milo,
while on the other hung an engraving of a familiar picture which I believe is called "The Fates,"
and which has the appearance of having been painted by some-one-or-other like Leighton or Bouguereau
or Harold Bell Wright.

After we had given some attention to the play my companion remarked that, from the dialect,
he judged it to be "Uncle Tom's Cabin." I had been told, however, that for certain reasons
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" is never played in the South; I therefore asked the young man in front
of me what play it was. He replied that it was Booth Tarkington and Harry Leon Wilson's comedy,
"The Man From Home," and as he made the statement openly, I feel that I am violating no confidence
in repeating what he said--especially since his declaration was supported by the program which
he showed me.

He was a pleasant young man. Perceiving that I was a stranger, he volunteered the additional
information that the masculine rôles, as well as the feminine ones, were being played by girls;
and I trust that I will not seem to be boasting of perspicacity when I declare that there had
already entered my mind a suspicion that such was indeed the case.

Behold them! Gaze upon the character called Daniel Voorhees Pike! See what long strides he
takes, and with what pretty tiny feet! Observe the manliness with which he thrusts his pink
little hands deep in the pockets of his--or somebody's--pantaloons!

Look at the Grand Duke Vasili of Russia, his sweet oval face and rosy mouth partly obscured
by mustache and goatee of a most strange wooliness.

Observe the ineradicable daintiness of the Honorable Almeric St. Aubyn, but more particularly
attend to that villain of helpless loveliness, the Earl of Hawcastle. The frightful life which,
it is indicated, the Earl has led, leaves no tell-tale marks upon his blooming countenance.
His only facial disfigurement consists in a mustache which, by reason of its grand-ducal lanateness,
seems to hint at a mysterious relationship between the British and Russian noblemen.

Take note, moreover, of the outlines of the players. If ever earl was belted it was this one.
If ever duke in evening dress revealed delectable convexities of figure, it was this duke.
If ever worthy male from Indiana spoke in a soprano voice and was lithe, alluring, and recurvous,
she was Daniel Voorhees Pike.

A young woman seated near us described to her escort the personal characteristics of the various
young ladies on the stage, and when we heard her call one girl who played in a betrousered
part, "a perfect darling," we echoed inwardly the sentiment. All were darlings. And this especial
"perfect darling" appeared as well to be a "perfect thirty-six."

The Earl was my undoing. At a critical point in the unfolding of the plot there was talk of
his having been connected with a scandal in St. Petersburg. This he attempted to deny, and
though I am unable to quote the exact words of his denial, the sound of it lingers sweetly
in my memory. Nor would the exact words, could I give them, convey, in print, the quality of
what was said, for the Earl, and all the rest, spoke in the soft, melodious tones of Mississippi.

"What you-all fussin' raound heah for, this mownin'?" That, perhaps, conveys some sense of
a line he spoke on entering.

And when, in reply, one of the others mentioned the scandal at St. Petersburg, the flavor of
the Earl's retort, as its cooing tones remain with me, was this:

"Wha', honey! What you-all mean hintin' raound 'baout St. Petuhsbuhg? I reckon you don' know
what you talkin' 'baout! Ah nevuh was in that taown in all ma bo'n days!"

What followed I am unable to relate, for the Earl's speech caused me to become emotional, and
my companion, after informing me severely that I was making myself conspicuous, removed me
from the chapel.

The auburn goddess was still on duty at the door as we went out. Advancing, she placed in each
of our hands a quarter. I regret to say that, in my shaken state, I misinterpreted this action.

"Oh, no! Please!" I protested, fearing that she thought we had not enjoyed the performance,
and was therefore returning our money. "It really wasn't bad at all. We're only going because
we have an engagement."

"Be quiet!" interrupted my companion in a savage undertone, jerking me along by the arm. "It's
only a rebate on the seats!" And without allowing me a chance to set myself right he dragged
me out.

CHAPTER XLII

OLD TALES AND A NEW GAME

Mrs. Eichelberger supplied us merely with a place to sleep. For meals she referred us to a
lady who lived a few doors up the street. But when in the morning we went, full of hunger and
of hope, to the house of this lady, we were coldly informed that breakfast was over, and were
recommended to the Bell Café, downtown.

My companion and I are not of that robust breed which enjoys a bracing walk before its morning
coffee, and the fact that the streets of Columbus charmed us, as we now saw them for the first
time by daylight, is proof enough of their quality. There is but little appetite for beauty
in an empty stomach.

The streets were splendidly wide, and bordered with fine old trees, and the houses, each in
its own lawn, each with its vines and shrubs, were full of the suggestion of an easy-going
home life and an informal hospitality. Most of them were of frame and in their architecture
illustrated the decadence of the eighties and nineties, but here or there was a fine old brick
homestead with a noble columned portico, or a formal Georgian house, disposed among beautiful
trees and gardens and sheltered from the street by an ancient hedge of box. So, though Columbus
is, as I have indicated, not too easily reached by rail, and though, as I have further indicated,
walks before breakfast are not to my taste, I am compelled to say that for both the journey
and the walk I felt repaid by the sight of some of the old houses--the Baldwin house, the W.D.
Humphries house, the J.O. Banks house, the old McLaren house, the Kinnebrew house, the Thomas
Hardy house, the J.M. Morgan house, with its garden of lilies and roses, its giant magnolia
trees and its huge camellia bushes; and most of all, perhaps, for its Georgian beauty, the
mellow tone of its old brick, its rich tangle of southern growths, and its associations, the
venerable mansion of the late General Stephen D. Lee, C.S.A.--now the property of the latter's
only son, Mr. Blewett Lee, general counsel of the Illinois Central Railroad, and a resident
of Chicago.

It was apropos of our visit to the Lee house that I was told of a dramatic and touching example
of the rebirth of amity between North and South.

Stephen D. Lee it was who, as a young artillery officer attached to the staff of General Beauregard,
transmitted the actual order to fire on Fort Sumter, the shot which began the war. Two years
later, having been promoted to the rank of lieutenant-general, the same Stephen D. Lee participated
in the defense of Vicksburg against the assaults of Porter's gunboats from the river and of
Grant's armies, which hemmed in the hilled city on landward side, until at last, on the 4th
of July, 1863, the place was surrendered, making Grant's fame secure.

Years after, when the Government of the United States accepted a statue of General Stephen
D. Lee, to be placed upon the battle ground of Vicksburg--now a national park--it was the late
General Frederick Dent Grant, son of the capturer of the city, who journeyed thither to unveil
the memorial to his father's former foe. And by a peculiarly gracious and fitting set of circumstances
it came about that when, in April last, the ninety-fifth anniversary of the birth of U.S. Grant
was celebrated in his native city, Galena, Illinois, it was Blewett Lee, only son of the general
taken by Grant at Vicksburg, who journeyed to Galena and there in a memorial address, returned
the earlier compliment paid to the memory of his own father by Grant's son.

       *       *       *       *       *

Columbus may perhaps appreciate the charm of its old homes, but there is evidence to show that
it did not appreciate certain other weatherworn structures of great beauty. I have seen photographs
of an old Baptist Church with a fine (and not at all Baptist-looking) portico and fluted columns,
which was torn down to make room for the present stupidly commonplace Baptist church: and I
have seen pictures of the beautiful old town hall which was recently supplanted by an ignorantly
ordinary town building of yellow pressed brick. The destruction of these two early buildings
represents an irreparable loss to Columbus, and it is to be hoped that the town will some day
be sufficiently enlightened to know that this is true and to regret that it did not restore
and enlarge them instead of tearing them down.

Until a decade or two ago Columbus had, so far as I can learn, but four streets possessing
names: Main Street, Market Street, College Street, and Catfish Alley, all other streets being
known as "the street that Mrs. Billups, or Mrs. Sykes, or Mrs. Humphries, or Mrs. Some-one-else
lives on."

Market and Main are business streets--at least they are so where they cross--and, like the
other streets, are wide. They are lined with brick buildings few if any of them more than three
stories in height, and it was in one of these buildings, on Main Street, that we found the
Bell Café--advertised as "the most exclusive café in the State."

Being in search of breakfast rather than exclusiveness, we did not sit at one of the tables,
but at the long lunch counter, where we were quickly served.

After breakfast we felt strong enough to look at picture post cards, and to that end visited
first "Cheap Joe's" and then the shop of Mr. Divilbis, where newspapers, magazines, sporting
goods, cameras, and all such things, are sold. Having viewed post cards picturing such scenes
as "Main Street looking north," "The 1st Baptist Church," and "Steamer America, Tombigbee River,"
we were about to depart, when our attention was drawn to a telephonic conversation which had
started between Mr. Divilbis's clerk and a customer who was thinking of going in for the game
of lawn tennis. The half of the conversation which was audible to us proved entertaining, and
we dallied, eavesdropping.

The clerk began by recommending tennis. "Yes," he said, "that would be very nice. Everybody
is playing tennis now."

But that got him into trouble, for after a pause he said: "I'm sorry I can't tell you everything
about it. I don't play tennis myself. Al could tell you, though. He plays."

Then, after a much longer pause: "Well, ma'am, you see, in a game of lawn tennis everybody
owns their own racquet."

At this juncture a tall, thin man in what is known (excepting at Palm Beach) as a "Palm Beach
suit," entered the shop and the clerk asked his inquisitor to hold the wire while he made some
inquiries. After a long conversation with the new arrival he returned to the telephone and
resumed his explanation.

"Well, you see, they have a net, and one stands on one side and one on the other--yes, ma'am,
there can be two on each side--and one serves. What? Yes, he hits the ball over the net, and
it has to go in the opposite court on the other side, and then if that one doesn't send it
back--Yes, the court is marked with lines--why, that counts fifteen. The next count is thirty.
What? No, ma'am, I don't know why they count that way. No, it's just the way they do in lawn
tennis. If your opponent has nothing, why, they call that 'love.' Yes, that's it--l-o-v-e--just
the same as when anybody's in love. No, ma'am, I don't know why.... So that's the way they count.

"No, ma'am, the lines are boundaries. You have to stand in a certain place and hit the ball
in a certain place.... No, I don't mean that way. You've got to hit it so it lands in a certain
place; and the one that's playing against you has to hit it back in a certain place, and if
it goes in some other place, then you can't play it any more. Oh, no! Not all day. I mean that
ends that part, and you start over. You just keep on doing like that."

But though it was apparent that he considered his explanation complete, the lady at the other
end of the wire was evidently not yet satisfied, and as he began to struggle with more questions
we left the shop and went to the Gilmer Hotel to see if any mail had come for us.

The Gilmer was built by slave labor some years before the war, and was in its day considered
a very handsome edifice. Nor is it to-day an unsatisfactory hotel for a town of the size of
Columbus. Its old brick walls are sturdy, and its rooms are of a fine spaciousness. Downstairs
it has been somewhat remodeled, but the large parlor on the second floor is much as it was
in the beginning, even to the great mirrors and the carved furniture imported more than sixty
years ago from France. Most of the doors still have the old locks, and the window cords originally
installed were of such a quality that they have not had to be renewed.

The Gilmer was still new when the Battle of Shiloh was fought, and several thousand of the
wounded were brought to Columbus. The hotel and various other buildings, including that of
the former Female Institute, were converted into hospitals, as were also many private houses
in the town.

Though there was never fighting at Columbus, the end of the war found some fifteen hundred
soldiers' graves in Friendship Cemetery, perhaps twoscore of the number being those of Federals.
The citizens were, at this time, too poor and too broken in spirit to erect memorials, but
several ladies of Columbus made it their custom to visit the cemetery and care for the graves
of the Confederate dead. This movement, started by individuals--Miss Matt Moreton, Mrs. J.T.
Fontaine, and Mrs. Green T. Hill--was soon taken up by other ladies of the place and resulted
in a determination to make the decoration of soldiers' graves an annual occurrence.

In an old copy of the "Mississippi Index," published at the time, may be found an account of
the solemn march of the women, young and old, to the cemetery, on April 25, 1866--one year
after Robert E. Lee's surrender--and of the decoration of the graves not only of Confederate
but of Federal soldiers. It is the proud boast of Columbus that this occasion constituted the
first celebration of the now national Decoration Day--or, as it is more properly called, Memorial
Day.

It should perhaps be said here that Columbus, Georgia, disputes the claim of Columbus, Mississippi,
as to Memorial Day. In the Georgia city it is contended that the idea of decorating soldiers'
graves originated with Miss Lizzie Rutherford, later Mrs. Roswell Ellis, of that place. The
inscription of Mrs. Ellis' monument in Linwood Cemetery, Columbus, Georgia, states that the
idea of Memorial Day originated with her.

It seems clear, however, that the same idea occurred to women in both cities simultaneously,
and that, while the actual celebration of the day occurred in Columbus, Mississippi, one day
earlier than in Columbus, Georgia, the ladies of the latter city may have been first in suggesting
that Memorial Day be not a local celebration, but one in which the whole South should take part.

The incident of the first decoration of the graves of Union as well as Confederate soldiers
appears, however, to belong entirely to Columbus, Mississippi, and it is certain that this
exhibition of magnanimity inspired F.W. Finch to write the famous poem, "The Blue and the Gray,"
for when that poem was first published in the "Atlantic Monthly" for September, 1867, it carried
the following headnote:

     The women of Columbus, Miss., animated by noble sentiments, have
     shown themselves impartial in their offerings to the memory of the
     dead. They strewed flowers on the graves of the Confederate and of
     the National soldiers.

This episode becomes the more touching by reason of the fact that the Columbus lady who initiated
the movement to place flowers on the Union graves, at a time when such action was sure to provoke
much criticism in the South, was Mrs. Augusta Murdock Sykes, herself the widow of a Confederate
soldier.

CHAPTER XLIII

OUT OF THE LONG AGO

While local historians attempt to tangle up the exploration of De Soto with the early history
of this region, saying that De Soto "entered the State of Mississippi near the site of Columbus,"
and that "he probably crossed the Tombigbee River at this point," their conclusions are largely
the result of guesswork. But it is not guesswork to say that when the Kentucky and Tennessee
volunteers, going to the aid of Andrew Jackson, at New Orleans, in 1814, cut a military road
from Tuscumbia, Alabama, to the Gulf, they passed over the site of Columbus, for the road they
cut remains to-day one of the principal highways of the district as well as one of the chief
streets of the town.

More clearly defined, of course, are memories of the Civil War and of Reconstruction, for there
are many present-day residents of Columbus who remember both. Among these is one of those wonderful,
sweet, high-spirited, and altogether fascinating ladies whom we call old only because their
hair is white and because a number of years have passed over their heads--one of those glorious
young old ladies in which the South is, I think, richer than any other single section of the world.

It was our good fortune to meet Mrs. John Billups, and to see some of her treasured relics--among
them the flag carried through the battles of Monterey and Buena Vista by the First Mississippi
Regiment, of which Jefferson Davis was colonel, and in which her husband was a lieutenant;
and a crutch used by General Nathan Bedford Forrest when he was housed at the Billups residence
in Columbus, recovering from a wound. But better yet it was to hear Mrs. Billups herself tell
of the times when the house in which she lived as a young woman, at Holly Springs, Mississippi,
was used as headquarters by General Grant.

Mrs. Billups, who was a Miss Govan, was educated in Philadelphia and Wilmington, and had many
friends and relatives in the North. Her mother was Mrs. Mary Govan of Holly Springs, and her
brother's wife, who resided with the Govans during the war, was a Miss Hawkes, a daughter of
the Rev. Francis L. Hawkes, then rector of St. Thomas's Church in New York. All were, however,
good Confederates.

Mrs. Govan's house at Holly Springs was being used as a hospital when Grant and his army marched,
unresisted, into the town, and Mrs. Govan, with her daughters and daughter-in-law, had already
moved to the residence of Colonel Harvey Walter, which is to this day a show place, and is
now the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Johnson of St. Louis--Mrs. Johnson being Colonel Walter's
daughter.

This house was selected by Grant as his headquarters, and he resided there for a considerable
period. ("It seemed a mighty long time," says Mrs. Billups.) With the general was Mrs. Grant
and their son Jesse, as well as Mrs. Grant's negro maid, Julia, who, Mrs. Grant told Mrs. Billups,
had been given to her, as a slave, by her father, Colonel Dent. Mrs. Billups was under the
impression that Julia was, at that time, still a slave. At all events, she was treated as a slave.

"We all liked the Grants," Mrs. Billups said. "He had very little to say, but she was very
sociable and used to come in and sit with us a great deal.

"One day the general took his family and part of his army and went to Oxford, Mississippi,
leaving Colonel Murphy in command at Holly Springs. While Grant was away our Confederate General
Van Dorn made a raid on Holly Springs, capturing the town, tearing up the railroad, and destroying
the supplies of the Northern army. He just dashed in, did his work, and dashed out again.

"Some of his men came to the house and, knowing that it was Grant's headquarters, wished to
make a search. My mother was entirely willing they should do so, but she knew that there were
no papers in the house, and assured the soldiers that if they did search they would find nothing
but Mrs. Grant's personal apparel--which she was sure they would not wish to disturb.

"That satisfied them and they went away.

"Next morning back came Grant with his army. He rode up on horseback, preceded by his bodyguard,
and I remember that he looked worn and worried.

"As he dismounted he saw my sister-in-law, Mrs. Eaton Pugh Govan--the one who was Miss Hawkes--standing
on the gallery above.

"He called up to her and said: 'Mrs. Govan, I suppose my sword is gone?'

"'What sword, General?' she asked him.

"'The sword that was presented to me by the army. I left it in my wife's closet.'

"Mrs. Govan was thunderstruck.

"'I didn't know it was there,' she said. 'Oh! I should have been tempted to send it to General
Van Dorn if I had known that it was there!'

"The next morning, as a reward to us for not having known that his sword was there, the general
gave us a protection paper explicitly forbidding soldiers to enter the house."

Of course the Govans, like all other citizens of invaded districts in the South, buried their
family plate before the "Yankees" came.

Shortly after this had been accomplished--as they thought, secretly--the Govans were preparing
to entertain friends at dinner when a negro boy who helped about the dining-room remarked innocently,
in the presence of Mrs. Govan and several of her servants:

"Missus ain't gwine to have no fine table to-night, caze all de silvuh's done buried in de
strawbe'y patch."

He had seen the old gardener "planting" the plate.

Thereafter it was quietly decided in the family that the negroes had better know nothing about
the location of buried treasure. That night, therefore, some gentlemen went out to the strawberry
patch, disinterred the silver, carried it to Colonel Walter's place, and there buried it under
the front walk.

"And after Grant came," said Mrs. Billups, "we used to laugh as we watched the Union sentries
marching up and down that walk, right over our plate."

       *       *       *       *       *

Among the items not already mentioned, of which Columbus is proud, are the facts that she has
supplied two cabinet members within the past decade--J.M. Dickinson, Taft's Secretary of War,
and T.W. Gregory, Wilson's Attorney General--and that J. Gano Johnson, breeder of famous American
saddle horses, has recently come from Kentucky and established his Emerald Chief Stock Farm
in Lowndes County, a short distance from the town.

But items like these, let me be frank to say, do not appeal to me as do the picturesque old
stories which cling about such a town.

There is, for instance, the story of Alexander Keith McClung, famous about the middle of the
last century as a duellist and dandy. McClung was a Virginian by birth, but while still a young
man took up his residence in Columbus. His father studied law under Thomas Jefferson and was
later conspicuous in Kentucky politics, and his mother was a sister of Chief Justice John Marshall.
In 1828, at the age of seventeen, McClung became a midshipman in the navy, and though he remained
in the service but a year, he managed during that time to fight a duel with another midshipman,
who wounded him in the arm. At eighteen he fought a duel near Frankfort, Kentucky, with his
cousin James W. Marshall. His third duel was with a lawyer named Allen, who resided in Jackson,
Mississippi. Allen was the challenger--as it is said McClung took pains to see that his adversaries
usually were, so that he might have the choice of weapons, for he was very skillful with the
pistol. In his duel with Allen he specified that each was to be armed with four pistols and
a bowie knife, that they were to start eighty paces apart, and upon signal were to advance,
firing at will. At about thirty paces he shot Allen through the brain. His fourth duel was
with John Menifee, of Vicksburg, and was fought in 1839, on the river bank, near that city,
with rifles at thirty yards. Some idea of the spirit in which duelling was taken in those days
may be gathered from the fact that the Vicksburg Rifles, of which Menifee was an officer, turned
out in full uniform to see the fight. However they were doubly disappointed, for it was Menifee
and not McClung who died. It is said that a short time after this, one of Menifee's brothers
challenged McClung, who killed this brother, and so on until he had killed all seven male members
of the Menifee family.

McClung fought gallantly in the Mexican War, as lieutenant-colonel of the First Mississippi
Regiment, of which Jefferson Davis was colonel. Though he remained always a bachelor it is
said that he had many love affairs. He was a hard drinker, a flowery speaker, and a writer
of sentimental verse. It is said that in his later life he was exceedingly unhappy, brooding
over the lives he had taken in duels--fourteen in all. His last poem was an "Invocation to
Death," ending with the line:

    "Oh, Death, come soon! Come soon!"

Shortly after writing it he shaved, dressed himself with the most scrupulous care, and shot
himself. This occurred March 23, 1855, in the Eagle Hotel, North Capitol Street, Jackson, Mississippi.

"To preserve the neatness and cleanliness of his attire after death should have ensued," says
Colonel R.W. Banks, "it is said he poured a little water upon the floor to ascertain the direction
the blood would take when it flowed from the wound. Then, placing himself in proper position,
so that the gore would run from and not toward his body, he placed the pistol to the right
temple, pulled the trigger and death quickly followed."

CHAPTER XLIV

THE GIRL HE LEFT BEHIND HIM

On our second evening in Columbus my companion and I returned to the house, near our domicile,
to which we had been sent by Mrs. Eichelberger for our meals; but owing to a misunderstanding
as to the dinner hour we found ourselves again too late. The family, and the teachers from
the I.I. and C. who took meals there, were already coming out from dinner to sit and chat on
the steps in the twilight.

We were disappointed, for we were tired of restaurants, and had counted on a home meal that
night; nor was our disappointment softened by the fact that the lady whom we interviewed seemed
to have no pity for us, but dismissed us in a chilling manner, which hinted that, even had
we been in time for dinner, we should have been none too welcome at her exclusive board.

Crestfallen, we turned away and started once more in the direction of the Belle Café. In the
half light the street held for us a melancholy loveliness. Above, the great trees made a dark,
soft canopy; the air was balmy and sweet with the scent of lilacs and roses; lights were beginning
to appear in windows along the way. Yet none of it was for us. We were wanderers, condemned
forever to walk through strange streets whose homes we might not enter, and whose inhabitants
we might not know.

When we had proceeded in silence for a block or two, we perceived a woman strolling toward
us on the walk ahead. Nor was it yet so dark that we could fail to notice, as we neared her,
that she was very pretty in her soft black dress and her corsage of narcissus--that, in short,
she was the young lady whom, though we were indebted to her for our rooms at Mrs. Eichelberger's,
we had not been able to thank.

Now, of course, we stopped and told her of our gratitude. First my companion told her of his.
Then I told her of mine. Then we both told her of our combined gratitude. And after each telling
she assured us sweetly that it was nothing--nothing at all.

All this made quite a little conversation. She hoped that we were comfortable. We assured her
that we were. Then, because it seemed so pleasant to be talking, on a balmy, flower-scented
evening, with a pretty girl wearing a soft black dress and a corsage of narcissus, we branched
out, telling her of our successive disappointments as to meals in the house up the street.

"Which house?" she asked.

We described it.

"That's where I live," said she.

And to think we had twice been late!

"You live there?"

"Yes. It was my elder sister whom you saw." Then we all smiled, for we had spoken of the chill
which had accompanied the rebuff.

"Do you think your sister will let us come to-morrow for breakfast?" ventured my companion.

"If you're there by eight."

"Because," he added, "breakfast is our last meal here."

"You're going away?"

"Yes. About noon."

"Oh," she said. And we hoped the way she said it meant that she was just the least bit sorry
we were going.

With that she started to move on again.

"We'll see you at breakfast, then?"

"Perhaps," she said in a casual tone, continuing on her way.

"Not surely?"

"Why not come and see?" The words were wafted back to us provocatively upon the evening air.

"We will! Good night."

"Good night."

We walked some little way in silence.

"Eight o'clock!" murmured my companion presently in a reflective, rueful tone. "We must turn
in early."

We did turn in early, and we should have been asleep early was it not for the fact that among
the chief wonders of Columbus must be ranked its roosters--birds of a ghastly habit of nocturnal
vocalism.

But though these creatures interfered somewhat with our slumbers, and though eight is an early
hour for us, we reached the neighboring house next morning five minutes ahead of time. And
though the manner of the elder sister was, as before, austere, that made no difference, for
the younger sister was there.

After breakfast we dallied, chatting with her for a time; then a bell began to toll, and my
companion reminded me that I had an engagement to visit the Industrial Institute and College
before leaving.

It was quite true. I had made the engagement the day before, but it had been my distinct understanding
that he was to accompany me; for if anything disconcerts me it is to go alone to such a place.
However sweet girls may be as individuals, or in small groups, they are in the mass diabolically
cruel, and their cruelty is directed especially against men. I know. I have walked up to a
college building to pay a call, while thirty girls, seated on the steps, played, sang, and
whistled an inane marching tune, with the rhythm of which my steps could not but keep time.
I have been the only man in a dining-room full of college girls. A hundred of them put down
their knives and forks with a clatter as I entered, and a hundred pairs of mischievously solemn
eyes followed my every movement. Voluntarily to go through such experiences alone a man must
be in love. And certainly I was not in love with any girl at the Industrial Institute.

"We both have an engagement," I said.

"I can't go," he returned.

"Why not?"

"I have two sketches to make before train time."

"You're going to make me go over there alone?"

"I don't care whether you go or not," he replied mercilessly. "You made the engagement. I had
nothing to do with it. But I am responsible for the pictures."

Perceiving that it was useless to argue with him, I reluctantly departed and, not without misgivings,
made my way to the Industrial Institute.

I am thankful to say that there matters did not turn out so badly for me as I had anticipated.
I refused to visit classrooms, and contented myself with gathering information. And since the
going to gather this information cost me such uneasiness, I do not propose to waste entirely
the fruits of my effort, but shall here record some of the facts that I collected.

The Industrial Institute and College is for girls of sixteen years or over who are graduates
of high schools. There are about 800 students taking either the collegiate, normal, industrial,
or musical courses, or combination courses. This college, I was informed, was the first in
the country to offer industrial education to women.

Most of the students come from families in modest circumstances, and attend the college with
the definite purpose of fitting themselves to become self-supporting. The cost is very slight,
the only regular charge, aside from board and general living expenses, being a nominal matriculation
fee of $5. There is no charge for rooms in the large dormitories connected with the college.
Board, light, fuel, and laundry are paid for coöperatively, the average cost per student, for
all these, being about ten dollars a month--which sum also includes payment for a lyceum ticket
and for two hats per annum. Uniforms are worn by all, these being very simple navy-blue suits
with sailor hats. Seniors and juniors wear cap and gown. All uniform requirements may be covered
at a cost of twenty dollars a year, and a girl who practices economy may get through her college
year at a total cost of about $125, though of course some spend considerably more.

Many students work their way, either wholly or in part. Thirty or forty of them serve in the
dining room, for which work they are allowed sixty-five dollars a year. Others, who clean classrooms
are allowed fifty dollars a year, and still others earn various sums by assisting in the library
or reading room or by doing secretarial work.

Unlike the other departments of the college, the musical department is not a tax upon the State,
but is entirely self-sustaining, each girl paying for her own lessons. This department is under
the direction of Miss Weenonah Poindexter, to whose enthusiasm much if not all of its success
is due. Miss Poindexter began her work in 1894, as the college's only piano teacher, giving
lessons in the dormitories. Now she not only has a splendid music hall and a number of assistants,
but has succeeded in making Columbus one of the recognized musical centers of the South, by
bringing there a series of the most distinguished artists: Paderewski, Nordica, Schumann-Heinck,
Gadski, Sembrich, Bispham, Albert Spaulding, Maud Powell, Damrosch's Orchestra, and Sousa's Band.

So much I had learned of the I.I. and C. when it came time for me to flee to the train. My
companion and I had already packed our suitcases, and it had been arranged between us that,
instead of consuming time by trying to meet and drive together to the station, we should work
independently, joining each other at the train.

I left the college in an automobile, stopping at Mrs. Eichelberger's only long enough to get
my suitcase. As I drove on past the next corner I chanced to look up the intersecting street.
There, by a lilac bush, stood my companion. He was not alone. But the corsage was now smaller,
by one flower, than it had been before, for, as I sighted them, she was in the act of placing
one of the blooms from her bouquet in my companion's buttonhole. Her hands looked very white
and small against his dark coat, and I recall that he was gazing down at them, and that his
features were distorted by a sentimental smile.

"Come on!" I called to him.

He looked up. His expression was vague.

"Go along," he returned.

"Why don't you come with me now?"

"I'll be there," he replied. "You buy the tickets and check the baggage." And with that he
turned his back.

"Good-by," I called to the young lady. But she was looking up at him and didn't seem to hear me.

       *       *       *       *       *

My companion arrived at the station in an old hack, with horses at the gallop. He was barely
in time.

When we were settled in the car, bowling along over the prairies toward the little junction
town of Artesia, I turned to him and inquired how his work had gone that morning. But at that
moment he caught sight, through the car window, of some negroes sitting at a cabin door, and
exclaimed over their picturesqueness.

I agreed. Then, as the train left them behind, I repeated my question: "How did your work go?"

"This is very fertile-looking country," said he.

This time I did not reply, but asked:

"Did you finish both sketches?"

"No," he answered. "Not both. There wasn't time."

"Let's see the one you did."

"As a matter of fact," he returned, "I didn't do any. You know how it is. Sometimes a fellow
feels like drawing--sometimes he doesn't. Somehow I didn't feel like it this morning."

With that he lifted the lapel of his coat and, bending his head downward, sniffed in a romantic
manner at the sickeningly sweet flower in his buttonhole.

CHAPTER XLV

VICKSBURG OLD AND NEW

I should advise the traveler who is interested in cities not to enter Vicksburg by the Alabama
& Vicksburg Railroad, which has a dingy little station in a sort of gulch, but by the Yazoo
& Mississippi Valley Railroad--a branch of the Illinois Central--which skirts the river bank
and flashes a large first impression of the city before the eyes of alighting passengers.

The station itself is a pretty brick colonial building, backed by a neat if tiny park maintained
by the railroad company, and facing the levee (pronounce "lev-vy"), along which the tracks
are laid. Beyond the tracks untidy landing places are scattered along the water front, with
here and there a tall, awkward, stern-wheel river steamer tied up, looking rather like an old-fashioned
New Jersey seacoast hotel, covered with porches and jimcrack carving, painted white, embellished
with a cupola and a pair of tall, thin smokestacks, and set adrift in its old age to masquerade
in maritime burlesque.

At other points along the bank are moored a heterogeneous assortment of shanty boats of an
incredible and comic slouchiness. Some are nothing but rafts made of water-soaked logs, bearing
tiny shacks knocked together out of driftwood and old patches of tin and canvas, but the larger
ones have barges, or the hulks of old launches, as their foundation. These curious craft are
moored in long lines to the half-submerged willow and cottonwood trees along the bank, or to
stakes driven into the levee, or to the railroad ties, or to whatever objects, ashore, may
be made fast an old frayed rope or a piece of telephone wire. Long, narrow planks, precariously
propped, connect them with the river bank, so that the men, women, children, dogs, and barnyard
creatures who inhabit them may pass to and fro. Some of the boats are the homes of negro families,
some of whites. On some, negro fish markets are conducted, advertised by large catfish dangling
from their posts and railings.

Whether fishing for market, for personal use, or merely for the sake of having an occupation
involving a minimum of effort, the residents of shanty boats--particularly the negroes--seem
to spend most of their days seated in drowsy attitudes, with fish poles in their hands. Their
eyes fall shut, their heads nod in the sun, their lines lag in the muddy water; life is uneventful,
pleasant, and warm.

When Porter's mortar fleet lay in the river, off Vicksburg, bombarding the town, that river
was the Mississippi, but though it looks the same to-day as it did then, it is not the Mississippi
now, but the Yazoo River. This comes about through one of those freakish changes of course
for which the great stream has always been famous.

In the old days Vicksburg was situated upon one of the loops of a large letter "S" formed by
the Mississippi, but in 1876 the river cut through a section of land and eliminated the loop
upon which the town stood. Fortunately, however, the Yazoo emptied into the Mississippi above
Vicksburg, and it was found possible, by digging a canal, to divert the latter river from its
course and lead its waters into the loop left dry by the whim of the greater stream. Thus the
river life, out of which Vicksburg was born, and without which the place would lose its character,
was retained, and the wicked old Mississippi, which has played rough pranks on men and cities
since men and cities first appeared upon its banks, was for once circumvented. This is but
one item from the record of grotesque tricks wrought by changes in the river's course: a record
of farms located at night on one side of the stream, and in the morning on the other; of large
tracts of land transferred from State to State by a sudden switch of this treacherous fluid
line of boundary; of river boats crashing by night into dry land where yesterday a deep stream
flowed; of towns built up on river trade, utterly dependent upon the river, yet finding themselves
suddenly deserted by it, like wives whose husbands disappear, leaving them withering, helpless,
and in want.

Where the upper Mississippi, above St. Louis, flows between tall bluffs it attains a grandeur
which one expects in mighty streams, but that is not the part of the river which gets itself
talked about in the newspapers and in Congress, nor is it the part of the river one involuntarily
thinks of when the name Mississippi is mentioned. The drama, the wonder, the mystery of the
Mississippi are in the lower river: the river of countless wooded islands, now standing high
and dry, now buried to the tree tops in swirling torrents of muddy water; the river of black
gnarled snags carried downstream to the Gulf with the speed of motor boats; the river whose
craft sail on a level with the roofs of houses; the river of broken levees, of savage inundations.

The upper river has a beauty which is like that of some lovely, stately, placid, well-behaved
blond wife. She is conventional and correct. You always know where to find her. The lower river
is a temperamental mistress. At one moment she is all sweetness, smiles and playfulness; at
the next vivid and passionate. Even when she is at her loveliest there is always the possibility
of sudden fury: of her rising in a rage, breaking the furniture, wrecking the house--yes, and
perhaps winding her wicked cold arms about you in a final destroying embrace.

Being the "Gibraltar of the river" (albeit a Gibraltar of clay and not of rock), Vicksburg
does not suffer when floods come. Turn your back upon the river, as you stand on the platform
of the Yazoo & Mississippi railroad station, and you may gather at a glance an impression of
the town piling up the hillside to the eastward.

The first buildings, occupying the narrow shelf of land at the water's edge, are small warehouses,
negro eating houses, dilapidated little steamship offices, and all manner of shacks in want
of paint and repairs. From the station Mulberry Street runs obliquely up the hillside to the
south. This street, which forms the main thoroughfare to the station, used to be occupied by
wholesale houses, but has more lately been given over largely to a frankly and prominently
exposed district of commercialized vice--negro and white. Not only is it at the very door of
Vicksburg, but it parallels, and is but one block distant from, the city's main street.

Other streets, so steep as hardly to be passable, directly assault the face of the hill, mounting
abruptly to Washington Street, which runs on a flat terrace at about the height of the top
of the station roof, and exposes to the view of the newly arrived traveler the unpainted wooden
backs of a number of frame buildings which, though they are but two or three stories high in
front, reach in some cases a height of five or six stories at the rear, owing to the steepness
of the hillside to which they cling. The roof lines, side walls, windows, chimneys, galleries,
posts, and railings of these sad-looking structures are all picturesquely out of plumb, and
some idea of the general dilapidation may be gathered from the fact that, one day, while my
companion stood on the station platform, drawing a picture of this scene, a brick chimney,
a portrait of which he had just completed, softly collapsed before our eyes, for all the world
like a sitter who, having held a pose too long, faints from exhaustion.

A brief inspection of the life on the galleries of these foul old fire traps reveals them as
negro tenements; and, though they front on the main street of Vicksburg, it should be explained
that about here begins the "nigger end" of Washington Street--the more prosperous portion of
the downtown section lying to the southward, where substantial brick office buildings may be seen.

Between the ragged, bulging tenements above are occasional narrow gaps through which are revealed
cinematographic glimpses of street traffic; and over the tenement roofs one catches sight of
sundry other buildings, these being of brick, and, though old, and in no way imposing, yet
of a more prosperous and self-respecting character than the nearer structures.

Altogether, the scene, though it is one to delight an etcher, is not of a character to inspire
hope in the heart of a humanitarian, or an expert on sanitation or fire prevention. Nor, indeed,
would it achieve completeness, even on the artistic side, were it not for its crowning feature.
Far off, over the roofs and above them, making an apex to the composition, and giving to the
whole picture a background of beauty and of ancient dignity, rises the graceful white-columned
cupola of Vicksburg's old stone courthouse, partially obscured by a feathery green tree top,
hinting of space and foliage upon the summit of the hill.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pamphlets on Vicksburg, issued by railroad companies for the enticement of tourists, give most
of their space to the story of the campaign leading to Grant's siege of Vicksburg and to descriptions
of the various operations in the siege--the battlefield, now a national military park, being
considered the city's chief object of interest.

Though I am not constitutionally enthusiastic about seeing battlefields, I must admit that
I found the field of Vicksburg engrossing. The siege of a small city presents a comparatively
simple and compact military problem which is, therefore, comprehensible to the civilian mind,
and in addition to this the Vicksburg battlefield is splendidly preserved and marked, so that
the visitor may easily reconstruct the conflict.

The park, which covers the fighting area, forms a loose crescent-shaped strip over the hills
which surround the city, its points abutting on the river above and below. The chief drives
of the park parallel each other, the inner one, Confederate Avenue, following, as nearly as
the hills permit, the city's line of defense, while the other, Union Avenue, forms an outer
semicircle and follows, in a similar manner, the trenches of the attacking forces.

That the battlefield is so well preserved is due in part to man and in part to Nature. Many
of the hills of Warren County, in which Vicksburg is situated, are composed of a curious soft
limy clay, called marl, which, normally, has not the solidity of soft chalk. Marse Harris Dickson,
who knows more about Vicksburg--and also about negroes, common law, floods, funny stories,
geology, and rivers--than any other man in Mississippi, tells me that this marl was deposited
by the river, in the form of silt, centuries ago, and that it was later thrown up into hills
by volcanic action. He did not live in Vicksburg when this took place, but deduces his facts
from the discovery of the remains of shellfish in the soil of the hills.

Whatever its geological origin, this soil has some very strange characteristics. In composition
it is neither stone nor sand, but a cross between the two--brown and brittle. One can easily
crush it to dust in one's hand, in which form it has about the consistency of talcum powder,
and it may be added that when this brown powder is seized by the winds and whirled about, Vicksburg
becomes one of the most mercilessly dusty cities on this earth.

On exposed slopes the marl washes very badly, forming great caving gullies, but, curiously
enough, where it is exposed perpendicularly it does not wash, but slicks over on the outside,
and stands almost as well as soft sandstone, although you can readily dig into it with your
fingers.

Many of the highways leading in and out of the city pass between tall walls of this peculiar
soil, through deep cuts which a visitor might naturally take for the result of careful grading
by the road builders; but Marse Harris Dickson tells me that the cuts are entirely the result
of erosion wrought by a hundred years of wheeled traffic.

So far as I know there is but one man who has witnessed this phenomenon without being impressed.
That man is Samuel Merwin. Merwin went down and visited Marse Harris in Vicksburg, and saw
all the sights. He was polite about the battlefield, and the river, and the negro stories,
and everything else, until Marse Harris showed him how the highways had eroded through the
hills. That did not seem to impress him at all. Moreover, instead of being tactful, he started
telling about his trip to China. In China, he said, there were similar formations, but, as
the civilization of China was much older than that of Vicksburg (fancy his having said a thing
like that!) the gorges over there had eroded to a much greater extent. He said he had seen
them three hundred feet deep.

The more Marse Harris tried to get him to say something a little bit complimentary about the
Vicksburg erosions, the more Merwin boasted about China. He declared that the Vicksburg erosions
didn't amount to a hill of beans compared with what he could show Marse Harris if Marse Harris
would go with him to a certain point on the banks of the Wa Choo, in the province of Lang Pang Si.

Evidently he harped on this until he touched not only his host's local pride, but his pride
of discovery. Before that, Marse Harris had been content to stick around in Mississippi, with
perhaps a little run down to New Orleans for Mardi Gras, or up to Dogtail to see a break in
the levee, but after Merwin's talk about China he began to grow restless, and it is generally
said in Vicksburg that it was purely in order to have something to tell Merwin about, the next
time he saw him, that he made his celebrated trip to the source of the Nile. As for Merwin,
he has never been invited back to Vicksburg, and it is to be observed that, even to this day,
Marse Harris, by nature of a sunny disposition, shows signs of erosion of the spirit when China
is mentioned.

It is apropos the battlefield that I mention the peculiarities of the soil. Had the bare ground
been exposed to the rains of a few years, the details of redoubts, trenches, gun positions,
saps, and all other military works would have melted away. Fortunately, however, there is a
kind of tough, strong-rooted grass, called Bermuda grass, indigenous to that part of the country,
and this grass quickly covered the battlefield, holding the soil together so effectually that
all outlines are practically embalmed. So, although those in charge of the park have contributed
not a little to its preservation--putting old guns in their former places, perpetuating saps
with concrete work, and placing white markers on the hillsides, to show how far up those hillsides
the assaulting Union troops made their way in various historic charges--it is due most of all
to Nature that the Vicksburg battlefield so well explains itself.

Could Grant and Pemberton look to-day upon the hills and valleys where surged their six weeks'
struggle for possession of the city, I doubt that they would find any important landmark wanting,
and it is certain that they could not say, as Wellington did when he revisited Waterloo: "They
have spoiled my battlefield!"

Besides the old guns and the markers, the field is dotted over with observation towers and
all manner of memorials. Of the latter, the marble pantheon erected by the State of Illinois,
and the beautiful marble and bronze memorial structure of the State of Iowa, are probably the
finest. The marble column erected by Wisconsin carries at its summit a great bronze effigy
of "Old Abe," the famous eagle, mascot of the Wisconsin troops. Guides to the battlefield are
prone to relate to visitors--especially, I suspect, those whose accents betray a Northern origin--how
"Old Abe," the bird of battle, went home and disgraced himself, after the war, by his ungentlemanly
action in laying a setting of eggs.

The handsomest monument to an individual which I saw upon the battlefield was the admirable
bronze bust of Major General Martin L. Smith, C.S.A., and the one which appealed most to my
imagination was also a memorial to a Confederate soldier: Brigadier-General States Rights Gist.
Is there not something Roman in the thought that, thirty or more years before the war, a southern
father gave his new-born son that name, dedicating him, as it were, to the cause of States
Rights, and that the son so dedicated gave his life in battle for that cause? The name upon
that stone made me better understand the depth of feeling that existed in the South long years
before the War, and gave me a clearer comprehension of at least one reason why the South made
such a gallant fight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of more than fourscore national cemeteries in the United States, that which stands among the
hills and trees, overlooking the river, at the northerly end of the military park, is one of
the most beautiful, and is, with the single exception of Arlington, the largest. It contains
the graves of nearly 17,000 Union soldiers lost in this campaign--three-fourths of them "unknown"!

It is interesting to note that, because the surrender of Pemberton to Grant occurred on July
4, that date has, in this region, associations less happy than attach to it elsewhere, and
that the Fourth has not been celebrated in Vicksburg since the Civil War, except by the negroes,
who have taken it for their especial holiday. This reminds me, also, of the fact that, throughout
the South, Christmas, instead of the Fourth of July, is celebrated with fireworks.

CHAPTER XLVI

SHREDS AND PATCHES

It was Marse Harris Dickson who showed us the battlefield. As we were driving along in the
motor we overtook an old trudging negro, very picturesque in his ragged clothing and battered
soft hat. My companion said that he would like to take a picture of this wayfarer, and asked
Marse Harris, who, as author of the "Old Reliable" stories, seemed best fitted for the task,
to arrange the matter. The automobile, having passed the negro, was stopped to wait for him
to catch up. Presently, as he came by, Marse Harris addressed him in that friendly way Southerners
have with negroes.

"Want your picture taken, old man?" he asked.

To which the negro, still shuffling along, replied:

"I ain't got no money."

Marse Harris, knowing the workings of the negro mind, got the full import of this reply at
once, but I must confess that a moment passed before I realized that the negro took us for
itinerant photographers looking for trade.

With the possible exception of Irvin S. Cobb, I suppose Marse Harris has the largest collection
of negro character stories of any individual in this country. And let me say, in this connection,
that I know of no better place than Vicksburg for the study of southern negro types.

One day Marse Harris was passing by the jail. It was hot weather, and the jail windows were
open. Behind the bars of one window, looking down upon the street, stood a negro prisoner.
As Marse Harris passed this window a negro wearing a large watch chain came by in the other
direction. His watch chain evidently caught the eye of the prisoner, who spoke in a wistful
tone, demanding:

"What tahme is it, brotha?"

"What foh you want t' know what tahme it is?" returned the other sternly, as he continued upon
his way. "You ain't goin' nowhere."

Through Marse Harris I obtained a copy of a letter written by a negro named Walter to Mr. W.H.
Reeve of Vicksburg. Walter had looked out for Mr. Reeve's live stock during a flood, and had
certain ideas about what should be done for him in consequence. I give the letter exactly as
it was written, merely inserting, parenthetically, a few explanatory words:

     Mr. H W Reeve an bos dear sir I like to git me a par [pair] second
     hand pance dont a fail or elce I will be dout [without] a pare to
     go eny where so send me something. Dont a fail an send me a par of
     youre pance [or] i will hafter go to work for somebody to git some.
     I don't think you all is treating me right at all I stayed with
     youre hogs in the water till the last tening [attending] to them
     and I dont think that youre oder [ought to] fail me bout a pare old
     pance

     WALTER

Though I cannot see just why it should be so, it seemed to us that the Vicksburg negroes were
happier than those of any other place we visited. Whether drowsing in the sun, walking the
streets, doing a little stroke of work, fishing, or sitting gabbling on the curbstone, they
were upon the whole as cheerful and as comical a lot of people as I ever saw.

"Wha' you-all goin' to?" I heard a negro ask a group of mulatto women, in clean starched gingham
dresses, who went flouncing by him on the street one Saturday afternoon.

"Oh," returned one of the women, with the elaborate superiority of a member of the class of
idle rich, "we're just serenadin' 'round."

"Serenading," as she used the word, meant a promenade about the town.

Perhaps the happiness of the negro, here, has to do with the lazy life of the river. The succulent
catfish is easily obtainable for food, and the wages of the roustabout--or "rouster," as he
is called for short--are good.

The rouster, in his red undershirt, with a bale hook hung in his belt, is a figure to fascinate
the eye. When he works--which is to say, when he is out of funds--he works hard. He will swing
a two-hundred-pound sack to his back and do fancy steps as he marches with it up the springy
gangplank to the river steamer's deck, uttering now and then a strange, barbaric snatch of
song. He has no home, no family, no responsibilities. An ignorant deck hand can earn from forty
to one hundred dollars a month. Pay him off at the end of the trip, let him get ashore with
his money, and he is gone. Without deck hands the steamer cannot move. For many years there
has been known to river captains a simple way out of this difficulty. Pay the rousters off
a few hours before the end of the trip. Say there are twenty of them, and that each is given
twenty dollars. They clear a space on deck and begin shooting craps. No one interferes. By
the time the trip ends most of the money has passed into the hands of four or five; the rest
are "broke" and therefore remain at work. Yet despite the ingenuity of those who have the negro
labor problem to contend with, Marse Harris tells me that there have been times when the levee
was lined with steamers, full-loaded, but unable to depart for want of a crew. Not that there
was any lack of roustabouts in town, but that, money being plentiful, they would not work.
In such times perishable freight rots and is thrown overboard.

I am conscious of a tendency, in writing of Vicksburg, to dwell continually upon the negro
and the river for the reason that the two form an enchanting background for the whole life
of the place. This should not, however, be taken to indicate that Vicksburg is not a city of
agreeable homes and pleasant society, or that its only picturesqueness is to be found in the
river and negro life.

The point is that Vicksburg is a patchwork city. The National Park Hotel, its chief hostelry,
is an unusually good hotel for a city of this size, and Washington Street, in the neighborhood
of the hotel, has the look of a busy city street; yet on the same square with the hotel, on
the street below, nearer the river, is an unwholesome negro settlement. So it is all over the
city; the "white folks" live on the hills, while the "niggers" inhabit the adjacent bottoms.
Nor is that the only sense in which the town is patched together. Some of the most charming
of the city's old homes are tucked away where the visitor is not likely to see them without
deliberate search. Such a place, for example, is the old Klein house, standing amid lawns and
old-fashioned gardens, on the bluff overlooking the Mississippi. This house was built long
before the railroad came to Vicksburg, cutting off its grounds from the river. A patch in the
paneling of the front door shows where a cannon ball passed through at the time of the bombardment,
and the ball itself may still be seen embedded in the woodwork of one of the rooms within.

And there are other patches. Near the old courthouse, which rears itself so handsomely at the
summit of a series of terraces leading up from the street, are a number of old sand roads which
must be to-day almost as they were in the heyday of the river's glory, when the region in which
the courthouse stands was the principal part of the city--the days of heavy drinking and gambling,
dueling, slave markets, and steamboat races. These streets are not the streets of a city, but
of a small town. So, too, where Adams Street crosses Grove, it has the appearance of a country
lane, the road represented by a pair of wheel tracks running through the grass; but Cherry
Street, only a block distant, is built up with city houses and has a good asphalt pavement
and a trolley line.

Mark Twain, in that glorious book, "Life on the Mississippi," declared, in speaking of the
eternal problems of the Mississippi, that as there are not enough citizens of Louisiana to
take care of all the theories about the river at the rate of one theory per individual, each
citizen has two theories. That is the case to-day as it was when Mark Twain was a pilot. I
have heard half a dozen prominent men, some of them engineers, state their views as to what
should be done. Each view seemed sound, yet all were at variance.

Consider, for example, that part of the river lying between Vicksburg and the mouth. Here,
quite aside from the problem as to the hands in which river-control work should be vested--a
very great problem in itself--three separate and distinct physical problems are presented.

From Vicksburg to Red River Landing there are swift currents which deposit silt only at the
edge of the bank, or on sand bars. From Red River Landing to New Orleans the problem is different;
here the channel is much improved, and slow currents at the sides of the river, between the
natural river bank and the levee, deposit silt in the old "borrow pits"--pits from which the
earth was dug for the building of the levees--filling them up, whereas, farther up the river,
the borrow pits, instead of filling up, are likely to scour, undermining the levee. From New
Orleans to the head of the Passes--these being the three main channels by which the river empties
into the Gulf--the banks between the natural river bed and the levees build up with silt much
more rapidly than at any other point on the entire stream; here there are no sand bars, and
the banks cave very little. In this part of the river it is not current, but wind, which forms
the great problem, for the winds are terrific at certain times of year, and when they blow
violently against the current, waves are formed which wash out the levees.

This is the barest outline of three chief physical problems with which river engineers must
contend. There are countless others which have to be met in various ways. In some places the
water seeps through, under the levee, and bubbles up, like a spring, from the ground outside.
This, if allowed to continue, soon undermines the levee and causes a break. The method of fighting
such a seepage is interesting. When the water begins to bubble up, a hollow tower of sand-filled
sacks is built up about the place where it comes from the ground, and when this tower has raised
the level of the water within it to that of the river, the pressure is of course removed, on
the siphon principle.

As river-control work is at present handled, there is no centralization of authority, and friction,
waste, and politics consequently play a large part.

Consider, for example, the situation in the State of Louisiana. Here control is, broadly speaking,
in the hands of three separate bodies: (1) the United States army engineer, who disburses the
money appropriated by Congress for levees and bank revetment, working under direction of the
Mississippi River Commission; (2) the State Board of Engineers, which disburses Louisiana State
funds wherever it sees fit, and which, incidentally, does not use, in its work, the same specifications
as are used by the Government; and (3) the local levee boards, of which there are eight in
Louisiana, one to each river parish--a parish being what is elsewhere called a county. Each
of these eight boards has authority as to where parish money shall be spent within its district,
and it may be added that this last group (considering the eight boards as a unit) has the largest
sum to spend on river work.

The result of this division of authority creates chaos, and has built up a situation infinitely
worse than was faced by General Goethals when Congress attempted to divide control in the building
of the Panama Canal. It will be remembered that, in that case, a commission was appointed,
but that Roosevelt circumvented Congress by making General Goethals head of the commission
with full powers.

While the canal was in course of construction, General Goethals appeared before the Senate
Committee on Commerce. When asked what he knew of levee building and work on the Mississippi,
he replied:

"I don't know a single, solitary thing about the work on the Mississippi except that it is
being carried on under the annual appropriation system. If we had that system to hamper us,
the Panama Canal would not be completed on time and within the estimate, as it will be. That
system leaves engineers in uncertainty as to how much they may plan to do in the year ahead
of them. Big works cannot be completed economically, either as to time or money, unless the
man who is making the plan can proceed upon the theory that the money will be forthcoming as
fast as he can economically spend it."

In view of the foregoing, I cannot myself claim to be free from river theory. It seems to me
clear that the Mississippi should be under exclusive Federal control from source to mouth;
that the various commissions should be abolished, and that the whole matter should be in the
hands of the chief of United States Engineers, who would have ample funds with which to carry
on work of a permanent character.

As one among countless items pointing to the need of Federal control, consider the case of
the Tensas Levee Board, one of the eight local boards in Louisiana. This board does not build
any levees whatsoever in the State of Louisiana, but does all its work with Louisiana money,
in the State of Arkansas, where it has constructed, and maintains, eighty-two miles of levees,
protecting the northeastern corner of Louisiana from floods which would originate in Arkansas.
These same levees, however, also protect large tracts of land in Arkansas, for which protection
the inhabitants of Arkansas do not pay one cent, knowing that their Louisiana neighbors are
forced, for their own safety, to do the work.

Cairo, Illinois, is the barometer of the river's rise and fall, the gage at that point being
used as the basis for estimates for the entire river below Cairo. These estimates are made
by computations which are so accurate that Vicksburg, Baton Rouge, and New Orleans know, days
or even weeks in advance, when to expect high water, and within a few inches of the precise
height the floods will reach.

Some years since, the United States engineer in charge of a river district embracing a part
of Louisiana, notified the local levee boards that unusually high water might be expected on
a certain date and that several hundred miles of levees would have to be "capped" in order
to prevent overflow. The local boards in turn notified the planters, in sections where capping
was necessary.

One of the planters so notified was an old Cajun--Cajun being a corruption of the word "Acadian,"
denoting those persons of French descent driven from Acadia, in Canada, by the British many
years ago. This old man did not believe that the river would rise as high as predicted and
was not disposed to cap his levee.

"But," said the member of the local levee board, who interviewed him, "the United States engineer
says you will have to put two twelve-inch planks, one above the other, on top of your levee,
and back them with earth, or else the water will come over."

At last the old fellow consented.

Presently the floods came. The water mounted, mounted, mounted. Soon it was halfway up the
lower plank; then it rose to the upper one. When it reached the middle of that plank the Cajun
became alarmed and called upon the local levee board for help to raise the capping higher still.

"No," said the local board member who had given him the original warning, "that will not be
necessary. I have just talked to the United States engineer. He says the water will drop to-morrow."

The old man was skeptical, however, and was not satisfied until the board member agreed that
in case the flood failed to abate next day, as predicted, the board should do the extra capping.
This settled, a nail was driven into the upper plank to mark the water's height.

Sure enough, on the following morning the river had dropped away from the nail, and thereafter
it continued to fall.

After watching the decline for several days, the Cajun, very much puzzled, called on his friend,
the local levee board member, to talk the matter over.

"Say," he demanded, "what kinda man dis United States engineer is, anyhow? Firs' he tell when
de water comes. Den he tell jus' how high she comes. Den he tell jus' when she's agoin' to
fall. What kinda man is dat, anyhow? Is he been one Voodoo?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The spirit of the people of Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana, who live, in flood time,
in the precarious safety afforded by the levees, is characterized by the same optimistic fatalism
that is to be found among the inhabitants of the slopes of Vesuvius in time of eruption.

One night, a good many years ago, I ascended Vesuvius at such a time, and I remember well a
talk I had with a man who gave me wine and sausage in his house, far up on the mountain side,
at about two o'clock that morning.

Seventeen streams of lava were already flowing down, and signs of imminent disaster were at hand.

"Aren't you afraid to stay here with your family?" I asked the man.

"No," he replied. "Three times I have seen it worse than this. I have lived here always, and"--with
a good Italian smile--"it is evident, signore, that I am still alive."

Less than a week later I read in a newspaper that this man's house, which was known as Casa
Bianca, together with his vineyards and his precious wine cellars, tunneled into the mountain
side, had been obliterated by a stream of lava.

Precisely as he went about his affairs when destruction threatened, so do the planters along
the Mississippi. But there is this difference: against Vesuvius no precaution can avail; whereas,
in the case of a Mississippi flood, foresight may save life and property. For instance, many
planters build mounds large enough to accommodate their barns, and all their live stock. Likewise,
when floods are coming, they construct false floors in their houses, elevating their furniture
above high-water mark, so that, if the whole house is not carried away, they may return to
something less than utter ruin. It is the custom, also, to place ladders against trees, in
the branches of which provisions are kept in time of danger, and to have skiffs, containing
food and water, ready on the galleries of the houses.

CHAPTER XLVIII

OLD RIVER DAYS

Among the honored citizens of Vicksburg, at the time of our visit, were a number of old steamboat
men who knew the river in its golden days; among them, Captain "Mose" Smith, Captain Tom Young,
Captain W.S. ("Billy") Jones, and Captain S.H. Parisot--the latter probably the oldest surviving
Mississippi River captain.

We were sent to see Captain Parisot at his house, where he received us kindly, entertained
us for an hour or more with reminiscences, and showed us a most interesting collection of souvenirs
of the river, including photographs of famous boats, famous deck loads of cotton, and famous
characters: among the latter the celebrated rivals, Captain John W. Cannon of the Robert E.
Lee and Captain Thomas P. Leathers of the Natchez. Captain Parisot knew both these men well,
and was himself aboard the Lee at the time of her famous race with the Natchez from New Orleans
to St. Louis.

"We left New Orleans 3½ minutes ahead of the Natchez," said Captain Parisot, "made the run
to Vicksburg in 24 hours and 28 minutes, beat her to Cairo by 1 hour and 12 minutes, and to
St. Louis by more than 3 hours."

Captain Parisot's father was a soldier under Napoleon I, and moved to Warren County, Mississippi,
after having been wounded at Moscow. He built, at the foot of Main Street, Vicksburg, the first
brick house that city had.

"There was a law in France," said the captain, "that any citizen absent from the country for
thirty-five years lost all claim to property. My father's people were pretty well off, so in
'42 he started back, but he was taken ill and died in New Orleans."

Captain Parisot was born in 1828, and in 1847 began "learning the river." In 1854 he became
part owner of a boat, and three years later purchased one of his own.

"I bought her in Cincinnati," he said. Then, reflectively, he added: "There was a good deal
of drinking in those days. When I brought her down on her first trip I had 183 tons of freight,
and 500 barrels of whisky, from Cincinnati, for one little country store--Barksdale & McFarland's,
at Yazoo City."

"There was a good deal of gambling, too, wasn't there?" one of us suggested.

"There was indeed," smiled the old captain. "Every steamboat was a gambling house, and there
used to be big games before the war."

"How big?"

"Well," he returned, "as Captain Leathers once put it, it used to be 'nigger ante and plantation
limit.' And that's no joke about playing for niggers either. Those old planters would play
for anything. I've known people to get on a boat at Yazoo City to come to Vicksburg, and get
in a game, and never get off at Vicksburg at all--just go back to Yazoo; yes, and come down
again, to keep the game going.

"There was a saloon called the Exchange near our house in Yazoo, and I remember once my father
got into a game, there, with a gambler named Spence Thrift. That was before the war. Thrift
was a terrible stiff bluffer. When he got ready to clean up, he'd shove up his whole pile.
Well, he did that to my father. Thrift's pile was twenty-two hundred dollars, and all my father
had in front of him was eight hundred. But he owned a young negro named Calvin, so he called
Calvin, and told him: 'Here, boy! Jump up on the table.' That equalled the gambler's pile;
and it finished him--he threw down his hand, beaten.

"Business in those times was done largely on friendship. It used to be said that I 'owned'
the Yazoo River when I was running my line. I knew everybody up there. They were my friends,
and they gave me their business for that reason, and also because I brought the cotton down
here to Vicksburg, and reshipped it from here on, down the river. It was considered an advantage
to reship cotton because moving it from one boat to another knocked the mud off the bales.

"There used to be some enormous cargoes of cotton carried. The largest boat on the river was
the Henry Frank, owned by Frank Hicks of Memphis. She ran between Memphis and New Orleans,
and on one trip carried 9226 bales. Those were the old-style bales, of course. They weighed
425 to 450 pounds each, as against 550 to 600 pounds, which is the weight of a bale to-day,
now that powerful machinery is used to make them. The heavy bale came into use partly to beat
transportation charges, as rates were not made by weight, but at so much per bale.

"The land up the Yazoo belonged to the State, and the State sold it for $1.25 per acre. The
fellows that got up there first weren't any too anxious to see new folks coming in and entering
land. Used to try all kinds of schemes to get them out.

"There were two brothers up there named Parker. One of them was a surveyor--we called him 'Baldy'--and
the other was lumbering, getting timber out of the cypress breaks and rafting it down. Almost
all the timber used from Vicksburg to New Orleans came out of there.

"One time a man came up the Yazoo to take up land and went to stop with Baldy Parker. When
they sat down to dinner Baldy took some flour and sprinkled it all over his meat.

"'What's that?' asked the stranger.

"'Quinine,' says Baldy. 'Haven't you got any?'

"'No,' says the fellow; 'what would I want it for?'

"'You'll find out if you go out there in the swamps,' Baldy tells him. 'It's full of malaria.
We eat quinine on everything.'

"The fellow was quiet through the rest of the meal.

"Pretty soon they got up to go out, and Baldy took up a pair of stovepipes.

"'What do you do with them pipes?' asks the stranger.

"'Wear 'em, of course,' says Baldy. 'Haven't you got any?'

"'No,' says the fellow. 'What for?'

"'Why,' says Baldy, 'the rattlesnakes out there will bite the legs right off of you.'

"With that the fellow had enough. He didn't go any farther, but turned around and took the
boat down the river."

In all his years as captain and line owner on the river, Captain Parisot never lost a vessel.
"I never insured against sinking," he told us. "Just against fire. But I got the best pilots
I could hire. In all I built twenty-seven steamboats. I had $150,000 worth of boats when I
sold my line in 1880. After I sold they did lose some boats."

Later we saw Captain "Billy" Jones, a much younger man than Captain Parisot, yet old enough
to have known the river in its prime. Captain Jones deserted the river years ago, and is now
a golfer with a prosperous banking business on the side.

"Captain Parisot was right when he said business on the river was done largely on friendship,"
said Captain Jones. "Also business used to be turned down for the opposite reason. There was
a historic case of that in this town.

"Captain Tom Leathers was in the habit of refusing to take freight on the Natchez if he didn't
like the shipper or the consignee. For some reason or other he had it in for the firm of Lamkin
& Eggleston, wholesale grocers here in Vicksburg, and declined their freight. They sued him
in the Circuit Court and got judgment. Leathers carried the case to the Supreme Court, but
the verdict was sustained and he had to pay $2500 damages. He was furious.

"'What's the use,' he said, 'of being a steamboat captain if you can't tell people to go to hell?'"

It is the lamentable fact, and I must face it, and so must you if you intend to read on, that
the language of the river was rough. At least ninety-nine out of every hundred river stories
are, therefore, not printable in full. Either they must be vitiated by deletions, or interpreted
at certain points by blanks and "blanketys." As for me, I prefer the blankety-blanks and I
consider that this method of avoiding the complete truth relieves me of all responsibility.
And of course, if that is so, it absolves, at the same time, good Captain "Billy" Jones, or
any one else who may have happened to tell me the stories.

Both Leathers and Cannon were large, powerful men, and they always hated each other. Leathers
was never popular, for he was very arrogant, but he had a great reputation for pushing the
Natchez through on time. Also, such friends as he did have always stuck by him.

Something of the feeling between the two old river characters is revealed in the following
story related by Captain Jones:

"Ed Snodgrass, who lived in St. Joseph, La., was a friend of both Cannon and Leathers. When
the Natchez would arrive at St. Joseph, he would go and give Leathers news about Cannon, and
when the Lee came in he would see Cannon and tell him about Leathers.

"Well, one time Leathers was laid up with a carbuncle on his back, and brought a doctor up
on the boat with him. So, of course, Ed Snodgrass told Cannon about it when he came along.

"'A carbuncle, eh?' said Cannon.

"'Yes,' said Ed.

"'Well,' said Cannon, 'you tell the old blankety-blank-blank that I had a brother--a bigger,
stronger man than I am--and he had one o' them things and died in two weeks.'

"Soon after that Cannon made a misstep when backing the Natchez out, at Natchez, and fell,
breaking his collar bone. Of course Ed Snodgrass gave the news to Leathers when he came along.

"'Huh!' said Leathers. 'His collar bone, eh? You tell the old blankety-blank-blank that I wish
it had been his blankety-blank neck!'"

I asked Captain Jones for stories about gambling.

"After the war," he said, "there weren't the big poker games there used to be. Mostly we had
sucker games then. There was a gambler named George Duval who wrote a book--or, rather, he
had somebody write it for him, for he was a very ignorant fellow, and began his life calking
the seams of boats in a shipyard. He had a partner who was known as 'Jew Mose,' who used to
dress like a rich planter. He wore a broad-brimmed hat and a very elegant tail coat, and was
a big, handsome man.

"After the boat left New Orleans, this 'Jew Mose' would disguise himself with whiskers and
goggles, go to the barber shop and lay out his game. George Duval and a fellow called 'Canada
Bill' were the cappers. They would bring in suckers, get their money, and generally get off
the boat about Baton Rouge.

"Once when I was a clerk on the Robert E. Lee, Duval got a young fellow in tow, and the young
fellow wanted to bet on the game, but he had a friend with him, and his friend kept pulling
him away.

"Later, when Duval had given up the idea of getting this young fellow's money, and closed up
his game, he appeared in the social hall of the boat with a small bag held up to his face.

"Somebody asked him what was in the bag.

"'It's hot salt,' he said. 'I've got a toothache, and a bag of hot salt is the best thing in
the world for toothache.'

"Presently, when he went to his stateroom to get something, he left the bag of salt on the
stove to heat it up. While he was gone somebody suggested, as a joke, that they dump out the
salt and fill the bag with ashes, instead. So they did it. And when Duval came back he held
it up to his face again, and seemed perfectly satisfied.

"'How does it feel now?' one of the fellows asked.

"'Fine,' said Duval. 'Hot salt is the best thing going.'

"At that, the man who had prevented the young fellow from betting, down in the barber shop,
earlier in the day, offered to bet Duval a hundred dollars that the bag didn't contain salt.

"Duval took the bet and raised him back another hundred. But the man had only fifty dollars
left. However, another fellow, standing in the crowd, put in the extra fifty to make two hundred
dollars a side.

"Then Duval opened the bag, and it was salt. He had changed the bags, and the fellows who worked
up the trick were his cappers."

One of the old-time river gamblers was an individual, blind in one eye, known as "One-eyed
Murphy." Murphy was an extremely artful manipulator of cards, and made a business of cheating.
One day, shortly after the Natchez had backed out from New Orleans and got under way, Marion
Knowles, a picturesque gentleman of the period, and one who had the reputation of being polite
even in the most trying circumstances, and no matter how well he had dined, came in and stood
for a time as a spectator beside a table at which Murphy was playing poker with some guileless
planters. Mr. Knowles was not himself guileless, and very shortly he perceived that the one-eyed
gambler was dealing himself cards from the bottom of the pack. Thereupon he drew his revolver
from his pocket and rapping with it on the table addressed the assembly:

"Gentlemen," he said, speaking in courtly fashion, "I regret to say that there is something
wrong here. I will not call any names, neither will I make any personal allusions. But if it
doesn't stop, damn me if I don't shoot his other eye out!"

I cannot drop the river, and stories of river gambling, without referring to one more tale
which is a classic. It is a long story about a big poker game, and to tell it properly one
must know the exact words. I do not know them, and therefore shall not attempt to tell the
whole story, but shall give you only the beginning.

It is supposed to be told by a Virginian.

"There was me," he says, "and another very distinguished gentleman from Virginia and a gentleman
from Kentucky, and a man from Ohio, and a fellow from New York, and a blankety-blank from Boston--"

That is all I know of the story, but I can guess who got the money in that game.

Can't you?

CHAPTER XLIX

WHAT MEMPHIS HAS ENDURED

An article on Memphis, published in the year 1855, gives the population of the place as about
13,000 (one quarter of the number slaves), and calls Memphis "the most promising town in the
Southwest." It predicts that a railroad will some day connect Memphis with Little Rock, Arkansas,
and that a direct line between Memphis and Cincinnati may even be constructed. This article
begins the history of Memphis in the year 1820, when the place had 50 inhabitants. In 1840
the settlement had grown to 1,700, and fifteen years thereafter it was almost eight times that
size.

Your Memphian, however, is not at all content to date from 1820. He begins the history of Memphis
with the date May 8, 1541--a time when Henry VIII was establishing new matrimonial records
in England, when Queen Elizabeth was a little girl, and Shakespeare, Bacon, Galileo and Cromwell
were yet unborn. For that was the date when a Spanish gentleman bearing some personal resemblance
to "Uncle Joe" Cannon--though he was younger, had black hair and beard, was differently dressed
and did not chew long black cigars--arrived at the lower Chickasaw Bluffs, from which the city
of Memphis now overlooks the Mississippi River. This gentleman was Hernando De Soto, and with
his soldiers and horses he had marched from Tampa Bay, Florida, hunting for El Dorado, but
finding instead, a lot of poor villages peopled by savages whom he killed in large numbers,
having been brought up to that sort of work by Pizarro, under whom he served in the conquest
of Peru. It seems to be well established, through records left by De Soto's secretary, and
other men who were with him, and through landmarks mentioned by them, that De Soto and his
command camped where Memphis stands, crossed the Mississippi at this point in boats which they
built for the purpose, and marched on to an Indian village situated on the mound, a few miles
distant, which now gives Mound City, Arkansas, its name. One hundred and thirty-two years later
Marquette passed by on his way down the river, and nine years after him La Salle, but so far
as is known, neither stopped at the site of Memphis, though they must have noticed as they
passed, that the river is narrower here than at any point within hundreds of miles, and that
the Chickasaw Bluffs afford about as good a place for a settlement as may be found along the
reaches of the lower river, being high enough for safety, and flat on top. The first white
man known to have visited the actual site of Memphis after De Soto, was De Bienville, the French
Governor of Louisiana, who came in 1739. De Bienville found the Chickasaw village where De
Soto had found it two centuries earlier; but whereas De Soto managed to avoid battle with the
inhabitants of this particular village, De Bienville came to attack them. He fought them near
their village, was defeated, and retired to Mobile.

Thus this part of the United States belonged first to Spain, and then to France; but in 1762
France ceded it back to Spain, and in the year following, Spain and France together ceded their
territory in the eastern part of the continent to England. The next change came with the Revolution,
when the United States came into being. The Spanish were, however, still in possession of the
vast territory of Louisiana, to the west of the Mississippi. In 1795, Gayoso, Spanish Governor
of Louisiana, came across and built a fort on the east side of the river, but was presently
ousted by the United States. In 1820, as has been said, the settlement of Memphis had begun,
one of the early proprietors having been Andrew Jackson. Some of the first settlers wished
to name the place Jackson, in honor of the general, but Jackson himself, it is said, decided
on the name Memphis, because the position of the town suggested that of ancient Memphis, on
the Nile.

In 1857 Memphis got her first railroad--the Memphis & Charleston--connecting her with Charleston,
South Carolina. About the time the road was completed there were severe financial panics which
held the city back; also there was trouble, as in so many other river towns, with hordes of
gamblers and desperadoes. Judge J.P. Young, in his "History of Memphis," tells of an interesting
episode of those times. There were two professional gamblers, father and son, of the name of
Able. The father shot a man in a saloon brawl, and soon after, the son committed a similar
crime of violence. A great mob started to take the younger Able out of jail and lynch him,
but one firm citizen, addressing them from the balcony of a hotel, persuaded them to desist.
Next day, however, there was a mass meeting to discuss the case of Able. At this meeting the
hotheads prevailed, and Able was taken from the jail by a mob of three thousand men. When the
noose was around his neck, and he and his mother and sister were pleading that his life be
spared, the same man who had previously prevented mob action, stepped boldly up, cut the rope
from Abel's neck, and assisted him to fly, standing between him and the mob, fighting the mob
off, and finally getting Able back into the jail. When the mob stormed the jail, furious at
having been circumvented by a single man, the same powerful figure appeared at the jail door
with a pistol, and, incredible though it seems, actually held the mob at bay until it finally
dispersed. This man was Nathan Bedford Forrest, later the brilliant Confederate cavalry leader.
Forrest and his wife are buried in Memphis, in a square called Forrest Park, under a fine equestrian
monument, by C.H. Niehaus.

Before the war Forrest was a member of the slave-dealing firm of Forrest & Maples, of Memphis.
Subjoined is a photographic reproduction of an advertisement of this firm, which appeared in
the Memphis City Directory for 1855-6.

When the Civil War loomed close, sentiment in Memphis was divided, but at a call for troops
for the Union, the State of Tennessee balked, and soon after it seceded from the Union and
joined the Confederacy. Many people believed, at that time, that if the entire South united,
the North would not dare fight. When the war came, however, Memphis knew where she stood; it
is said that no city of the same size (22,600) furnished so many men to the Confederate armies.
In 1862, when the Union forces got control of the river to the north and the south of the city,
it became evident that Memphis was likely to be taken. A fleet of Union gunboats came down
and defeated the Confederate fleet in the river before the city, while the populace lined the
banks and looked on. The city, being without military protection, then surrendered, and was
occupied by troops under Sherman. Nor, with the exception of one period of a few hours' duration,
did it ever again come under Confederate control. That was when Forrest made his famous raid
in 1864, an event which exhibited not only the dash and hardihood of that intrepid leader,
but also his strategy and his sardonic humor.

General A.J. Smith, with 13,000 Union soldiers was marching on the great grain district of
central Mississippi, and was forcing Forrest, who had but 3,500 men, to the southward. Unable
to meet Smith's force on anything like equal terms, Forrest conceived the idea of making a
"run around the end" and striking at Memphis, which was Smith's base. Taking 1,500 picked men
and horses, he executed a flanking movement over night, and before Smith knew he was gone,
came careering into Memphis at dawn at the head of 500 galloping, yelling men--many of them
Memphis boys. There were some 7,000 Union troops in and about Memphis at this time, but they
were surprised out of their slumbers, and made no effective resistance. The only part of Forrest's
plan which miscarried was his scheme to capture three leading Union officers, who were then
stationed in Memphis: Generals C.C. Washburn, S.A. Hurlbut and R.P. Buckland. General Hurlbut's
escape occurred by reason of the fact that instead of having passed the night at the old Gayoso
Hotel, where he made his headquarters, he happened to be visiting a brother officer, elsewhere.
General Washburn was warned by a courier and made his escape in his nightclothes and bare feet
from the residence he occupied as headquarters, running down alleys to the river, and thence
along under the bluff to the Union fortifications. Forrest's men found the general's papers,
uniform, hat, boots and sword in his bedroom, and also found there Mrs. Washburn. The only
things they failed to find were the general's nightshirt and the general himself, who was inside
it. General Buckland also avoided capture by the narrowest margin. The soldiers first went
to the wrong house to look for him. That gave him time to escape.

It is recorded that, later in the day, under a flag of truce, Forrest sent General Washburn
his sword and clothing with a humorous message, informing him, at the same time, that he had
600 Federal prisoners without shoes or clothing, and that he would like supplies for them.
The supplies, we are told, were promptly forthcoming.

Forrest waited until he was sure that news of the raid had been telegraphed to General Smith
in the field. Then he cut the wires. Smith immediately came back toward Memphis with his army,
which was what Forrest desired him to do. The Confederates then retired from the immediate
vicinity of the city.

Judge Young, in his history, reports that when General Hurlbut heard of the raid he exclaimed,
"There it goes again! They superseded me with Washburn because I could not keep Forrest out
of West Tennessee, and Washburn cannot keep him out of his own bedroom!"

       *       *       *       *       *

After the War there was corruption and carpet-bag rule in Memphis, and Forrest was again to
the fore, becoming "Grand Wizard" of the famous Ku Klux Klan, the mysterious secret organization
designed to intimidate Scalawags, Carpet-baggers and negroes, whose arrogance had become intolerable.
General George W. Gordon prepared the oath and ritual for the Klan, which was founded in the
town of Pulaski, Giles County, Tennessee. General Forrest took the oath in 1866, in Room 10
of the old Maxwell House, at Nashville.

It is my belief that the Ku Klux Klan has been a good deal maligned. Many of its members were
men of high type. I have been told, for instance, that one southern gentleman who has since
been in the cabinet of a President of the United States, was active in the Ku Klux. I withhold
his name because the purposes of the Ku Klux Klan, and the urgent need which called it into
being, are not yet fully understood in the North, and for the further reason that depredations
committed by other bodies were frequently charged to the Ku Klux, giving it a bad name. So
far as I can discover the Ku Klux endeavored to avoid violence where it could be avoided. Its
aim seems to have been to frighten negroes and bad whites into behaving themselves or going
away; though sometimes, of course, bad characters had to be killed. It must be remembered that
the ballot was denied former Confederate soldiers for quite a period after the War, that they
were not allowed to possess firearms, and that, at the same time, negro troops were quartered
in the South. In many parts of the South the government and the courts were in the hands of
third-rate Northerners (carpet-baggers) who had come down to dominate the defeated section,
and who used the Scalawags (disloyal southern whites) and negroes for their own purposes. Obviously
this was outrageous, and equally obviously, a proud people, even though defeated, could not
endure it. The service performed by the Ku Klux Klan seems to have been comparable with that
rendered by the Vigilantes of early western days. Something had to be done and the Klan did it.

In 1869 General Forrest ordered the Klan to disband, which it did; but owing to the fact that
it was a secret organization, and that disguises had been used, it was an easy matter for mobs,
not actually associated with the Ku Klux, to assume its costume and commit outrages in its name.

       *       *       *       *       *

In writing of Raleigh I referred to the post-bellum activities of the Confederate cruiser Shenandoah.
Captain Dabney M. Scales, a distinguished citizen of Memphis, was on the Shenandoah. Born in
Orange County, Virginia, in 1842, Captain Scales was appointed to the Naval Academy by L.Q.C.
Lamar. He was a classmate of Captain Clark, later of the Oregon. When the war broke out, young
Scales was in his second year at the Academy, but like most of the other southern cadets he
resigned and offered his services to the South. When commissioned he was the youngest naval
officer in the Confederate service. Eight months after the War was over, the Shenandoah was
still cruising in the South Seas, looking for Federal merchantmen. In January 1866, somewhere
south of Australia, she overhauled the British bark Baracouta, taking her for a Yankee man-o'-war
flying the British flag as a ruse. Young Scales was sent in command of a boarding party, and
was informed by the skipper of the Baracouta that the Civil War had terminated months and months
ago. The Shenandoah then made for Liverpool. In the meantime a Federal court had ruled that
her officers were guilty of piracy--a hanging offense. Naturally, they did not dare return
to the United States. Young Scales went to Mexico and remained there two years before coming
home. When the Spanish War came, Captain Scales volunteered and was made navigating officer
of a naval vessel. At the time of our visit he was a practising lawyer in Memphis, and was
in command of Company A of the Uniform Confederate Veterans, a body of old heroes who go out
every now and then and win the first prize for the best drilled organization operating Hardee's
tactics.

Another distinguished citizen of Memphis who has lively recollections of the Civil War, is
the Right Reverend Thomas F. Gailor, Episcopal Bishop of Tennessee. Bishop Gailor, who succeeded
the famous Bishop Quintard, is my ideal of everything an Episcopal bishop--or I might even
say a Church of England bishop--ought to be. The Episcopal Church seems to me to have about
it more "style" than most other churches, and an Episcopal bishop ought not to look the ascetic.
He ought to be well filled out, well dressed, well fed. He ought to have a distinguished appearance,
a ruddy complexion, a good voice, and a lot of what we call "humanness"--including humor. All
these qualities Bishop Gailor has.

In the bishop's study, in Memphis, hangs the sword of his father, Major Frank M. Gailor, who
commanded the 33rd Mississippi Regiment. Major Gailor was killed while giving a drink of water
to a wounded brother officer, and that officer, though dying, directed a soldier to take the
Major's sword and see that it reached Mrs. Gailor, in Memphis, within the Union lines. A young
woman, a Confederate spy, took the sword, and wearing it next her body, brought it through
to Mrs. Gailor. Somehow or other it became known that the widow had her husband's sword, and
as the possession of arms was prohibited to citizens, a corporal and guard were sent to the
house to search for it. They found it between the mattresses of Mrs. Gailor's bed, and confiscated
it. Mrs. Gailor then went with another lady to see General Washburn. Her friend started a long
harangue upon the injustice which had been done, but Mrs. Gailor, seeing that the General was
becoming impatient, broke in saying: "General, soldiers came to my house and took away my dead
husband's sword. I can't use it, nor can my little son. I want it back. You would want your
boy to have your sword, wouldn't you?"

"Of course I would!" cried Washburn. "Thank God for a woman who can say what she has to say,
and be done with it!"

The sword was returned.

In the Spring of 1863, when Bishop Gailor was a child of about seven years, he accompanied
his mother on a journey by wagon from Memphis to Jackson, Mississippi. The only other member
of the party was a lady who had driven in the same wagon from Jackson to Kentucky, to get the
body of her brother, a Confederate soldier who had been killed there. The coffin containing
the remains was carried in the wagon. When it was known in Memphis that Mrs. Gailor was going
through the lines, a great many people came to her with letters which they wished to send to
friends. Mrs. Gailor sewed many of the letters into the clothing of the little boy. ("I remember
it well," said the bishop. "I felt like a mummy.") Also one of Forrest's spies came with important
papers, asking if she would undertake to deliver them. Only by very clever manipulation did
Mrs. Gailor get the papers through, for everything was carefully searched. After they had passed
out of the northern lines they met one of Forrest's pickets. Mrs. Gailor told him that she
had papers for the general, and before long Forrest rode up with his staff and received them.
Then the two women and the little boy, with their tragic burden in the wagon, drove along on
their two-hundred mile journey. And later, when Jackson was bombarded, they were there.

Before the war Major Gailor had been editor of the Memphis "Avalanche," a paper which was suppressed
when the Union troops took the town. After the War the "Avalanche" was started up again, and
had a stormy time of it, because it criticized a Carpet-bag judge who had come to Memphis.
In 1889 the "Avalanche" was consolidated with the "Appeal," another famous ante-bellum journal,
surviving to-day in the "Commercial-Appeal," a strong newspaper, edited by one of the ablest
journalists in the South, Mr. C.P.J. Mooney.

When Memphis was captured the "Appeal" would have been suppressed, as the "Avalanche" was,
had it been there. But when it became evident that Memphis would fall, Mr. S.C. Toof (later
a well-known book publisher) who was then connected with the "Appeal," packed up the press
and other equipment and shipped them to Grenada, Mississippi, where Mr. B.F. Dill, editor of
the paper, continued to bring it out. When Grenada was threatened, a few months later, Mr.
Dill moved with his newspaper equipment to Birmingham, where for a second time he resumed publication.
His next move was to Atlanta. There, when he could not get news-print, he used wallpaper, or
any sort of paper he could lay his hands on. When Sherman took Atlanta the "Appeal" moved again,
this time to Columbus, Georgia, where, at last, it was captured, and its press destroyed. Wherever
it went it remained the "Memphis Daily Appeal," with correspondents in all southern armies.
No wonder a paper with such vitality as that, has survived and become great!

Poor Memphis! After the War she had Reconstruction to contend with; after Reconstruction, financial
difficulties; after that, pestilence. In 1873, when the population of the city was about 40,000,
and there had been a long period of hard times, yellow fever broke out. The condition of the
city was exceedingly unsanitary, and after the pestilence had passed, was allowed to remain
so, though at that time the origin of yellow fever was, of course, not known, and it was assumed
that the disease resulted from lack of proper sanitation.

In 1878 there was another yellow fever epidemic. The first case developed August 2, but the
news was suppressed until the middle of the month, by which time a number of cases had come
down. The day after the news became known 22 new cases were reported. Terror spread through
the town. Hordes of people tried to flee at once. Families left their houses with the doors
wide open and silver standing on the sideboards. People flocked to the trains; when they could
not get seats they stood in the aisles or clambered onto the roofs of the cars; if they could
not get in at car doors they climbed in through the windows, and sometimes, when the father
of a family was refused admittance to a crowded car, he would force a way in for his wife and
children at the pistol's point.

In the first week of the panic there were 1,500 cases, with an average of ten deaths daily;
in the next week, 3,000 cases with fifty deaths daily, and so on into September during which
month there was an average of 8,000 to 10,000 cases with about two hundred deaths a day.

Not every one fled, however. Leading citizens remained, forming a relief committee, and some
brave helpers came from outside. Thus the sick and needy were attended to, though of course
many of the volunteers contracted the disease and perished.

Added to the epidemic there was, as so often happens in such circumstances, an outbreak of
thievery and other crime, which had to be put down. It is related that in the height of the
epidemic hardly any one was seen upon the streets save an occasional nurse, doctor, or other
member of the relief committee; household pets starved to death or fled the city; among the
newspapers the staffs were so reduced that only two or three men were left in each office,
and in the case of the "Appeal," but one, that one Colonel J.M. Keating, the proprietor, who
stuck to Memphis and for a time wrote, set up and printed the paper without assistance, feeling
that refugees must have news from the city.

The next year the epidemic came again, but in less violent form, there being, this time, but
2,000 cases. However the effect was cumulative. Memphis dropped from a city of nearly 50,000
to one of 20,000 and the reputation of the place was such that a bill was proposed in Congress
to purchase the ground on which the city stood and utterly destroy it as unfit for human habitation.

Stricken as she was, however, Memphis "came back." A great campaign for sanitation was begun;
city sewage-disposal was installed, and after a few years, artesian wells were bored for a
new water supply. And though, as we now know, yellow fever does not come from the same sources
as typhoid, nevertheless the new sanitary measures did greatly reduce the city's death rate.

Memphis, like all other cities, has her troubles now and then, but since the great pestilence
there has never been a real disaster. The city has grown and thriven. Indeed, she had become
so used to growing fast that when, in 1910, the Federal census gave her but 131,000, she indignantly
demanded a recount, for she had been talking to herself, and had convinced herself that she
had a great many more than that number of inhabitants. However, the census was taken again,
and the first count proved accurate.

CHAPTER L

MODERN MEMPHIS

To be charmed by the social side of a city, yet to find little to admire in its physical aspect,
is like knowing a brilliant and beautiful woman whose housekeeping is not of the neatest. If
one were compelled to discuss such a woman, and wished to do so sympathetically but with truth,
one might avoid brutal comment on the condition of her rooms by likening them to other rooms
elsewhere: rooms which one knew to be untidy, but which the innocent listener might not understand
to be so. By this device one may even appear to pay a compliment, while, in reality, indicating
the grim truth. In such a case, I, for example, might say that this supposititious lady's rooms
reminded me of those I occupied on the second floor of the famous restaurant called Antoine's,
in New Orleans; whereupon the reader, knowing the high reputation of Antoine's cuisine, and
never having seen the apartments to which I refer, might assume an implication very favorable.

Let me say, then, that Memphis reminds me of St. Louis. Like St. Louis, Memphis has charming
society. Like St. Louis she has pretty girls. Like St. Louis she is hospitable. And without
particularizing too much, I may say that her streets remind me of St. Louis streets, that many
of her houses remind me of St. Louis houses, and that her levee, with its cobbled surface sloping
down to the yellow, muddy Mississippi, the bridges in the distance, the strange looking river
steamers loading and unloading below, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, is much like the St.
Louis levee. So, if the reader happens to be unfamiliar with the physical appearance of St.
Louis, he may, at all events, perceive that I have likened Memphis to a much larger city--thus,
(it seems fair to suppose) paying Memphis a handsome tribute.

Memphis has a definite self-given advantage over St. Louis in possessing a pretty little park
at the heart of the city, overlooking the river; also she has the advantage of lying to the
east of the great stream, instead of to the west, so that, in late afternoon, when the sun
splashes down into the mysterious deserted reaches of the Arkansas flats, across the way, sending
splatterings of furious color across the sky, one may seat oneself on a bench in the park and
witness a stupendous natural masterpiece. A sunset over the sea can be no more wonderful than
a sunset over this terrible, beautiful, inspiring, enigmatic domineering flood. Or one may
see the sunset from the readingroom of the Cossitt Library, with its fine bay window commanding
the river almost as though it were the window of a pilot-house.

The Cossitt Library is only one of several free libraries in the city. There is, for example,
a free library in connection with the Goodwyn Institute, an establishment having an endowment
of half a million dollars, left to Memphis by the late William A. Goodwyn. The Goodwyn Institute
provides courses of free lectures, by well-known persons, on a great variety of subjects. The
library is designed to add to the educational work. Books are not, however, loaned, as they
are from the Cossitt Library, an institution to which I found myself returning more than once;
now for a book, now to look at the interesting collection of mound-builder relics contained
in an upper room, now merely because it is a place of such reposeful hospitality that I liked
to make excuses to go back.

The library, a romanesque building of Michigan red sandstone, is by a southern architect, but
is in the style of Richardson, and is one of the few buildings in that style which I have ever
liked. It was given to Memphis as a memorial to Frederick H. Cossitt, by his three daughters,
Mrs. A.D. Juilliard, Mrs. Thomas Stokes, and Mrs. George E. Dodge, all of New York. Mr. Cossitt
was born in Granby, Connecticut, but as a young man moved South and in 1842 adopted Memphis
as his home, residing there until 1861. At the outbreak of the Civil War he made an amicable
division of his business with his partner, and removed to New York, where he resided until
the time of his death. Finding among his papers a memorandum indicating that he had intended
to endow a library in Memphis, his daughters carried out his wish.

Having already spoken of a number of Memphis' interesting citizens, I find myself left with
an ill-assorted trio of names yet to be mentioned, because, different as they are, each of
the three supplies a definite part of the character of the city. First, then, Memphis has the
honor of possessing what not many of our cities possess: a man who stands high among the world's
artist-bookbinders. This gentleman is Mr. Otto Zahn, executive head of the publishing house
of S.C. Toof & Co. Mr. Zahn himself has done some famous bindings, and books bound by him are
to be found in some of the finest private libraries in the land. Until a few years ago he conducted
an art-bindery in connection with the Toof company's business, but it was unprofitable and
finally had to be given up.

Second, to descend to a more popular form of art, but one from which the revenue is far more
certain, Memphis has, in W.C. Handy, a negro ragtime composer whose dance tunes are widely
known. Among his compositions may be mentioned the "Memphis Blues," the "St. Louis Blues,"
"Mr. Crump," and "Joe Turner." "Mr. Crump" is named in honor of a former mayor of Memphis who
was ousted for refusing to enforce the prohibition law; "Joe Turner" is the name of a negro
pianist who plays for Memphis to dance--as Handy also does. Most of Handy's tunes are negro
"rags" in fox-trot time, and they are so effective that Memphis dances them generally in preference
to the one step.

My third celebrity is of a more astounding type. While in Memphis I called aboard the river
steamer Grand, and had a talk with Mrs. Nettie Johnson, who is captain of that craft. Some
one told me that Mrs. Johnson was the only woman steamboat captain in the world, but she informed
me that at Helena, Arkansas, there lives another Mrs. Johnson--no relative of hers--who follows
the same calling.

The steamer Grand is almost entirely a Johnson family affair. Mrs. Johnson is captain; her
husband, I.S. Johnson is pilot (though Mrs. Johnson has, in addition to her master's license,
a pilot's license, and often takes the wheel); her elder son, Emery, is clerk; Emery's wife
is assistant clerk, while Arthur, the captain's younger son, is engineer. Russell Johnson,
Mrs. Johnson's grandson, is the only member of the family I saw aboard the boat who does not
take part in running it. Russell was five years old when I met him, but that was nearly a year
ago, and by now he is probably chief steward, boatswain, or ship's carpenter.

The regular route of the Grand is from Memphis to Mhoon's Landing, on the Arkansas River, a
round trip of 120 miles, with thirty landings.

I asked Mrs. Johnson if she had ever been shipwrecked. Indeed she had! Her former ship, the
Nettie Johnson, struck thin ice one night in the Arkansas River and went down.

"What did you do?" I asked.

"I reached after an iron ring," she replied, "and clumb on up into the rigging. She went down
about four-thirty A.M. and we stayed on her till daylight; then we all swum ashore. I tell
you it was cold! There was icicles on my dress; my son Emery put his arms around me to keep
me warm, and his clothes froze onto mine."

"How long a swim was it to shore?" I asked.

"Oh," put in her husband, "it didn't amount to nothing. She was only swimming about two minutes."

This statement, however, was repudiated by the captain. "Two minutes, my foot!" she flung back
at her spouse. "It was more than that, all right!"

Mrs. Johnson has done flood rescue work for the Government, with the Grand. In the spring previous
to our visit she rescued sixty families from one plantation, besides towing barge-loads of
provisions to various points on the Mississippi and Arkansas rivers.

Captaining and piloting a river boat are clearly good for the health. Mrs. Johnson looks too
young to be a grandmother. Her skin is clear, her cheeks are rosy, her brown eyes flash and
twinkle, her voice, somewhat hoarse from shouting commands, is deep and strong, and her laugh
is like the hearty laugh of a big man.

"Are you a suffragist?" I asked her.

"Not on your life!" was her reply.

"Now, what do you want to talk like that for?" objected her husband. "You know women ought
to be allowed to vote."

"I don't think so," she returned firmly.

At that her daughter-in-law, the assistant clerk of the Grand, took up the cudgels.

"Of course they ought to vote!" she insisted. "You know you can do just as good as a man can do!"

"No," asseverated Captain Nettie. "Women ought to stay home and tend to their families."

"As you do?" I suggested, mischievously.

"That's all right!" she flung back. "I stayed home and raised my family until it was big enough
to do its own navigating. Then I started in steamboating. I had to have something to do."

But the daughter-in-law did not intend to let the woman suffrage issue drop.

"Do you mean to say," she demanded of Captain Nettie, "that you think women haven't got as
much sense as men?"

"Sure I do!" the captain tossed back. "There never was a woman on earth that had as much sense
as the men. Take it from me, that's so. I know what I'm talking about--and that's more than
a half of these other women do!"

Then, as it was about time for the Grand to cast off, Captain Nettie terminated the interview
by blowing the whistle; whereupon my companion and I went ashore.

One of the best boats on the river is the Kate Adams and one of the most delightful two-days'
outings I can imagine would be to make the round trip with her from Memphis to Arkansas City.
But if I were seeking rest I should not take the trip at the time when it is taken by a score
or more of Memphis young men and women, who, with their chaperones, and with Handy to play
their dance-music, make the Kate Adams an extremely lively craft on one round trip each year.

Apropos of Arkansas, I am reminded that Memphis is not only the metropolis of Tennessee, but
is the big city of Arkansas and Mississippi, as well. The Peabody Hotel in Memphis, a somewhat
old-fashioned hostelry, is a sort of Arkansas political headquarters, and is sometimes humorously
referred to as "Peabody township, Arkansas." It is also used to a considerable extent by Mississippi
politicians, as well as by the local breed. The Peabody grill has a considerable reputation
for good cookery, and the Peabody bar, though it still looks like a bar, serves only soft drinks,
which are dispensed by female "bartenders." The Gayoso hotel, named for the Spanish governor
who intruded upon Memphis territory for a time, stands where stood the old Gayoso, which figured
in Forrest's raid. The Gayoso made me think a little of the old Victoria, in New York, torn
down some years ago. The newest hotel in town, at the time of our visit, was the Chicsa, an
establishment having a large and rather flamboyant office, and considerably used, we were told,
as a place for conventions. If I were to go again to Memphis I should have a room at the Gayoso
and go to the Peabody for meals.

The axis of the earth, which Oliver Wendell Holmes declared, "sticks out visibly through the
center of each and every town or city," sticks out in Memphis at Court Square, which the good
red Baedeker dismisses briefly with the remark that it "contains a bust of General Andrew Jackson
and innumerable squirrels." This is not meant to indicate that the squirrels are a part of
the bust of Jackson. The two are separate and distinct. So are the pigeons which alight on
friendly hands and shoulders as do other confident pigeons on Boston Common, and in the Piazza
San Marco, in Venice.

I am always disposed to like the people of a city in which pigeons and squirrels are tame.
Every day, at noon, an old policeman, a former Confederate soldier I believe he is, comes into
the square with a basket of corn. When he arrives all the pigeons see him and rush toward him
in a great flapping cloud, brushing past your face if you happen to be walking across the square
at the time. Nor is he the only one to feed them. Numbers of citizens go at midday to the square,
where they buy popcorn and peanuts for the squirrels and pigeons--which, by the way, are all
members of old Memphis families, being descendants of other squirrels and pigeons which lived
in this same place before the Civil War. One might suppose that the pigeons, being able to
fly up to the seventeenth floor windowsills of the Merchants' Exchange Building, where men
of the grain and hay bureau of the exchange are in the habit of leaving corn for them, would
prosper more than the squirrels, but that is not the case for--and I regret to have to report
such immorality--the squirrels are in the habit of adding to the stores of peanuts which are
thrown to them, by thievery. Like rascally urchins they will watch the peanut venders, and
when their backs are turned, will make swift dashes at the peanut stands, seizing nuts and
scampering away again. Sometimes the venders detect them, and give chase for a few steps, but
that is dangerous, for the minute the vender goes after one squirrel, others rush up and steal
more. It is saddening to find that even squirrels are corrupted by metropolitan life!

In reviewing my visit to Memphis I find myself, for once, kindly disposed toward a Chamber
of Commerce and Business Men's Club. I like the Business Men's Club because, besides issuing
pamphlets shrieking the glory of the city, it has found time to do things much more worth while--notably
to bring to Memphis some of the great American orchestras.

A pamphlet issued by these organizations tells me that Memphis is the largest cotton market
in the country, the largest hardwood producing market, the third largest grocery and jobbing
market.

Cotton is, indeed, much in evidence in the city. The streets in some sections are full of strange
little two-wheel drays, upon which three bales are carried, and which display, in combination,
those three southern things having such perfect artistic affinity: the negro, the mule, and
the cotton bale. The vast modern cotton warehouses on the outskirts of the city cover many
acres of ground, and with their gravity system of distribution for cotton bales, and their
hydraulic compresses in which the bales are squeezed to minimum size, to the accompaniment
of negro chants, are exceedingly interesting.

The same pamphlet speaks also of the unusually large proportion of the city's area which is
given over to parks and playgrounds, and it seems worth adding that though Memphis follows
the general southern custom of barring negroes--excepting, of course, nursemaids in charge
of children--from her parks, she has been so just as to provide a park for negroes only. In
this she stands ahead of most other southern cities.

Memphis has the only bridge crossing the Mississippi below the mouth of the Ohio. At the time
of our visit a new bridge was being built very near the old one, and an interesting experience
of our trip was our visit to this bridge, under the guidance of Mr. M.B. Case, a young engineer
in charge.

On a great undertaking, such as this one, where the total cost mounts into millions, the first
work done is not on the proposed bridge itself, but on the plant and equipment to be used in
construction--derricks, barges, concrete-mixers, air compressors for the caissons, small engines,
dump-cars and all manner of like things. This preparatory work consumes some months. Caissons
are then sunk far down beneath the river bed. Caisson work is dangerous, and the insurance
rate on "sand hogs"--the men who work in the caissons--is very high. The scale of wages, and
of time, varies in proportion to the risk, which is according to the depth at which work is
being done. On this enterprise, for example, men working from mean level to a depth of 50 feet
received $3 for an eight-hour day. From 50 to 70 feet they worked but six hours and received
$3.75. From 90 to 105 feet they worked in three shifts of one hour each, and received $4.25.
And while they were placing concrete to seal the working chamber there was an additional allowance
of fifty cents a day.

The chief danger of caisson work is the "bends," or "caisson disease." In the caisson a man
works under high air pressure. When he comes out, the pressure on the fluids of the body is
reduced, and this sometimes causes the formation of a gas bubble in the vascular system. If
this bubble reaches a nerve-center it causes severe pain, similar to neuralgia; if it gets
to the brain it causes paralysis. Day after day men will go into the caisson and come out without
trouble, but sooner or later from 2 to 8 per cent. of caisson workers are affected. Of 320
"sand-hogs" who labored in the caissons of this bridge, three died of paralysis, and of course
a number of others had slight attacks of the "bends," in one form or another.

The bridge, when we visited it, was more than half completed. On the Memphis side the approaches
were almost ready, and the steel framework of the bridge reached from the shore across the
front pier, and was being built out far beyond the pier, on the cantilever principle, hanging
in the air above the middle of the stream. By walking out on the old bridge we could survey
the extreme end of the new one, which was being extended farther and farther, daily, by the
addition of new steel sections. There were then about 100 journeymen bridgemen on the work--these
being workmen of the class that erects steel skyscraper frames--with some fifty apprentices
and carpenters, and about twenty common laborers. Bridgemen are among the highest paid of all
workmen. In New York, at that time, their wage was $6 for eight hours' work. Here it was $4.50.
Very few of the men had families with them in Memphis. They are the soldiers of fortune among
wage-earners, a wild, reckless, fine looking lot of fellows, with good complexions like those
of men in training, and eyes like the eyes of aviators. No class of men in the world, I suppose,
have steadier nerves, think quicker, or react more rapidly from stimulus to action, whether
through sight or sound. They have to be like that. For where other workmen pay for a mistake
by loss of a job, these men pay with life. Yet they will tell you that their work is not dangerous.
It is "just as safe as any other kind of job"--that, although four of their number had already
been lost from this bridge alone. One went off the end of the structure with a derrick, the
boom of which he lowered before the anchor-bolts had been placed. Two others fell. A fourth
was struck by a falling timber.

Once, while we were watching the men scrambling about upon the steel members of the uncompleted
cantilever arm, one of them thought something was about to fall, and ran swiftly in, over a
steel beam, toward the body of the structure; whereafter, as nothing did fall, he was unmercifully
twitted by his fellow workers for having shown timidity.

Many of the men working on this bridge had worked on the older structure paralleling it. This
was true not only of the laboring men, but of the engineers. Ralph Modjeski, the consulting
engineer at the head of the work (he is, by the way, a son of Madame Modjeska), was chief draughtsman
when the earlier structure was designed; W.E. Angier, assistant chief engineer in the present
work, was a field engineer on the first bridge, and it is interesting to know that, in constructing
the approach to the old bridge he unearthed a Spanish halbert which, it is thought, may date
from the time of De Soto. These bridge engineers and bridgebuilders move in a large orbit.
Their last job may have been in Mexico, in the far West, or in India; their next may be in
France. Many of the men here, worked on the Blackwell's Island bridge, on the Quebec bridge
(which fell), on the Thebes bridge over the Mississippi, twenty miles above Cairo, on the Vancouver
and Portland bridges over the Columbia and Willamette rivers, and on the great Oregon Trunk
Railway bridges.

After standing for a time on the old bridge watching work on the new, and shuddering, often
enough, at the squirrel-like way in which the men scampered about up there, so far above the
water, we walked in and moved out again upon the partially completed floor of the new bridge.
Here it was necessary to walk on railroad ties, with gaps, six or eight inches wide, between
them. Even had one tried, one could hardly have managed to squeeze one's body through these
chinks; to fall through was impossible; nevertheless it gave me an uncomfortable feeling in
the region of the stomach to walk out there, seeing the river all the time between the interstices.
When we had progressed for some distance we came to a gap where, for perhaps a yard, there
were no ties--just open space, with the muddy water shining cold and cruel below. The opening
was only about as wide as the hall of a small New York flat, and heaven knows that to step
across such a hall is easy enough. But this was not so easy. When we came to the gap I stopped.
Mr. Case, the young engineer, who loved all bridges with a sort of holy passion, and loved
this bridge in particular, was talking as we went along. I liked to hear him talk. He had been
telling us how a thing that is to be strong ought to look strong, too, and from that had got
somehow to the topic of expansion and contraction in bridges, with variations of temperature.
"It isn't only the steel bridges that do it," he said. "Stone arch bridges do it, too. The
crown of the arch rises and falls. The Greeks and Romans and Egyptians knew that expansion
and contraction occurred. They--"

While talking he had gone across the gap, stepping lightly upon a stringpiece probably a foot
wide, and proceeding over the ties. Now, however, he ceased speaking and looked back, for I
was no longer beside him. At the gap I had stopped. I intended to step across, but I did not
propose to do so without giving the matter the attention it seemed to me to deserve.

Mr. Case did not laugh at me. He came back and stood on the string-piece where it crossed the
opening, telling me to put my hand on his shoulder. But I did not want to do that. I wanted
to cross alone--when I got ready. It took me perhaps two minutes to get ready. Then I stepped
over. It was, of course, absurdly easy. I had known it would be. But as we walked along I kept
thinking to myself: "I shall have to cross that beastly place again when we come back," and
I marveled the more at the amazing steadiness of eye and mind and nerve that enables some men
to go continually prancing about over emptiness infinitely more engulfing than that which had
troubled and was troubling me.

Returning I stepped across without physical hesitation. But after I had crossed I continued
to hate that gap. I hated it as I drove back to the hotel, that afternoon, as I ate dinner
that night, as I went to bed, and in my dreams I continued to cross it, and to see the river
waiting for me, seeming to look up and leer and beckon. I woke up hating the gap in the bridge
as much as ever; I hated it down into the State of Mississippi, and over into Georgia; and
wherever I have gone since, I have continued to hate it. Of course there isn't any gap there
now. It was covered long ago. Yet for me it still exists, like some obnoxious person who, though
actually dead, lives on in the minds of those who knew him.

FARTHEST SOUTH

CHAPTER LI

BEAUTIFUL SAVANNAH

How often it occurs that the great work a man set out originally to accomplish, is lost sight
of, by future generations, in contemplation of other achievements of that man, which he himself
regarded as of secondary importance.

In 1733, the year in which General Oglethorpe started his Georgia colony, there were more than
a hundred offenses for which a person might be hanged in England; Oglethorpe's primary idea
in founding the colony was to provide a means of freeing debtors from prison, and giving them
a fresh start in life; yet it is as the man responsible for the laying out of the beautiful
city of Savannah, that Oglethorpe is probably most widely remembered to-day.

Oglethorpe was a first-rate soldier. He defeated a superior Spanish force from Florida, and
successfully resisted attacks from the Indians. Also, he was a man whose ethical sense was
in advance of his period. He did not permit slavery in Georgia, and it was not adopted there
until he went back to England. In planning Savannah he was assisted by a Charleston engineer
named Bull, for whom the chief street of Savannah is named. The place is laid out very simply;
it has rectangular blocks and wide roads, with small parks, or squares, at regular intervals.
There are some two dozen of these small parks, aside from one or two larger parks, a parade
ground, and numerous boulevards with double roadways and parked centers, and the abundance
of semi-tropical foliage and of airy spaces, in Savannah, gives the city its most distinctive
and charming quality--the quality which differentiates it from all other American cities. Originally
these parks were used as market-places and rallying points in case of Indian attack; now they
serve the equally utilitarian purposes of this age, having become charming public gardens and
playgrounds. One of them--not the most important one--is named Oglethorpe Square; but the monument
to Oglethorpe is placed elsewhere.

Madison Square, Savannah, is relatively about as important as Madison Square, New York, and
though smaller than the latter, is much prettier. It contains a monument to Sergeant Jasper,
the Revolutionary hero who, when the flag was shot down from Fort Moultrie, off Charleston,
by the British, flung it to the breeze again, under fire. Jasper was later killed with the
flag in his arms, in the French-American attempt to take Savannah from the British. Monterey
Square has a statue of Count Pulaski, who also fell at the siege of Savannah. Another Revolutionary
hero remembered with a monument is General Nathanael Greene who, though born in Rhode Island,
moved after the war to Georgia where, in recognition of his services, he was given an estate
not far from Savannah. "Mad" Anthony Wayne, a Pennsylvanian by birth, also accepted an estate
in Georgia and resided there after the Revolution.

An interesting story attaches to Greene's settlement in Georgia. The estate given to him was
that known as Mulberry Grove, above the city, on the Savannah River. The property had previously
belonged to Lieutenant-governor John Graham, but was confiscated because Graham was a loyalist.
Along with the property, Greene apparently took over the Graham vault in Colonial Cemetery--now
a city park, and a very interesting one because of the old tombs and gravestones--and there
he was himself buried. After a while people forgot where Greene's remains lay, and later, when
it was decided to erect a monument to his memory in Johnson Square, they couldn't find any
Greene to put under it. However, they went ahead and made the monument, and Lafayette laid
the cornerstone, when he visited Savannah in March, 1825. Greene's remains were lost for 114
years. They did not come to light until 1902, when some one thought of opening the Graham vault.
Thereupon they were removed and reinterred in their proper resting place beneath the monument
which had so long awaited them. That monument, by the way, was not erected by Savannah people,
or even by Southerners, but was paid for by the legislature of the general's native Rhode Island.
When the remains were discovered, Rhode Island asked for them, but Savannah, which had lost
them, also wanted them. The matter was settled by a vote of Greene's known descendants, who
decided almost unanimously to leave his remains in Savannah.

The foundation of the general's former home at Mulberry Grove may still be seen. It was in
this house that Eli Whitney invented the cotton-gin. Whitney was a tutor in the Greene family
after the general's death, and it was at the suggestion of Mrs. Greene that he started to try
and make "a machine to pick the seed out of cotton." It is said that Whitney's first machine
would do, in five hours, work which, if done by hand, would take one man two years. This was,
of course, an epoch-making invention and caused enormous commercial growth in the South, where
cotton-gins are as common things as restaurants in the city of New York. Which reminds me of
a story.

A northern man was visiting Mr. W.D. Pender, at Tarboro, North Carolina. On the day of the
guest's arrival Mr. Pender spoke to his cook, a negro woman of the old order, telling her to
hurry up the dinner, because he wished to take his friend down to see the cotton-gin. "You
know," he explained, "this gentleman has never seen a cotton-gin."

The cook looked at him in amazement.

"Lor'! Mistuh Penduh," she exclaimed. "An' dat man look like he was edjacated!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Another item in Savannah history is that John Wesley came over about the middle of the eighteenth
century to convert the Indians to Christianity. It was not until after this attempt, when he
returned to England, that he began the great religious movement which led to the founding of
the Methodist Church. George Whitfield also preached in Savannah. Evidently Wesley did not
get very far with the savages who, it may be imagined, were more responsive to the kind of
"conversion" attempted in South Carolina, by a French dancing-master, who went out from Charleston
in the early days and taught them the steps of the stately minuet.

Another great event in Savannah history was the departure from that port, in 1819, of the City
of Savannah, the first steamship to cross the Atlantic. If I may make a suggestion to the city,
it is that the centennial of this event be celebrated, and that a memorial be erected. Inspiration
for such a memorial might perhaps be found in the simple and charming monument, crowned by
a galleon in bronze, which has been erected in San Francisco, in memory of Robert Louis Stevenson.
A ship in bronze can be a glorious thing--which is more than can be said of a bronze statesman
in modern pantaloons.

       *       *       *       *       *

More lately Savannah initiated another world-improvement: she was the first city to abolish
horses entirely from her fire department, replacing them with automobile engines, hook-and-ladders,
and hose-carts. That is in line with what one would expect of Savannah, for she is not only
a progressive city, but is a great automobile city, having several times been the scene of
important international automobile road races, including the Grand Prize and the Vanderbilt Cup.

Nor is there want of other history. The Savannah Theater, though gutted by fire and rebuilt,
is the same theater that Joseph Jefferson owned and managed for a time, in the fifties; in
the house on Lafayette Square, now occupied by Judge W.W. Lambdin, Robert E. Lee once stayed,
and Thackeray is said to have written there a part of "The Virginians."

A sad thing was happening in Savannah when we were there. The Habersham house, one of the loveliest
old mansions of the city, was being torn down to make room for a municipal auditorium.

The first Habersham in America was a Royal Governor of Georgia. He had three sons one of whom,
Joseph, had, by the outbreak of the Revolution, become a good enough American to join a band
of young patriots who took prisoner the British governor, Sir James Wright. The governor's
house was situated where the Telfair Academy now is. He was placed under parole, but nevertheless
fled to Bonaventure, the Tabnall estate, not far from the city, where he was protected by friends
until he could escape to the British fleet, which then lay off Tybee Island at the mouth of
the Savannah River, some eighteen miles below the city. This same Joseph Habersham, it is said,
led a party which went out in 1775 in skiffs--called bateaux along this part of the coast--boarded
the British ship Hinchenbroke, lying at anchor in the river, and captured her in a hand-to-hand
conflict. Mr. Neyle Colquitt of Savannah, a descendant of the Habershams, tells me that the
powder taken from the Hinchenbroke was used at the Battle of Bunker Hill. After the war, in
which Joseph Habersham commanded a regiment of regulars, he was made Postmaster General of
the United States. The old house itself was built by Archibald Bulloch, a progenitor of that
Miss "Mittie" Bulloch who later became Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Sr., mother of the President.
It was designed by an English architect named Jay, who did a number of the fine old houses
of Savannah, which are almost without exception of the Georgian period. Archibald Bulloch bought
the lot on which he built the house from Matthew McAllister, great-grandfather of Ward McAllister.
When sold by Bulloch it passed through several hands and finally came into the possession of
Robert Habersham, a son of Joseph.

The old house was spacious and its interiors had a fine formality about them. The staircase,
fireplace and chandeliers were handsome, and there was at the rear a charming oval room, the
heavy mahogany doors of which were curved to conform to the shape of the walls. To tear down
such a house was sacrilege--also it was a sacrilege hard to commit, for some of the basement
walls were fifteen feet thick, and of solid brick straight through.

Sherman's headquarters were on the Square, just south of the De Soto Hotel, in the battlemented
brick mansion which is the residence of General Peter W. Meldrim, ex-president of the American
Bar Association, and former Mayor of Savannah.

Among other old houses characteristic of Savannah, are the Scarborough house, the Mackay house,
the Thomas house in Franklin Square (also known as the Owens house), in which Lafayette was
entertained, and the Telfair house, now the Telfair Academy. The Telfair and Thomas houses
were built by the architect who built the Habersham house, and it is to be hoped that they
will never go the way of the latter mansion.

In 1810, about the time these houses were built, Savannah had 5,000 inhabitants; by 1850 the
population had trebled, and 1890 found it a place of more than 40,000. Since then the city
has grown with wholesome rapidity, and attractive suburban districts have been developed. The
1910 census gives the population as 65,000, but the city talks exuberantly of 90,000. Well,
perhaps that is not an exaggerated claim. Certainly it is a city to attract those who are free
to live where they please. In fall, winter and spring it leaves little to be desired. I have
been there three times, and I have never walked up Bull Street without looking forward to the
day when I could go there, rent an old house full of beautiful mahogany, and pass a winter.
Not even New Orleans made me feel like that. I feel about New Orleans that it is a place to
visit rather than to settle down in. I want to go back to New Orleans, but I do not want to
stay more than a few weeks. I want to see some people that I know, prowl about the French quarter,
and have Jules Alciatore turn me out a dinner; then I want to go away. So, too, I want to go
back to Atlanta--just to see some people. I want to stay there a week or two. Also I want to
go to St. Augustine when cold weather comes, and bask in the warm sun, and breathe the soft
air full of gold dust, and feel indolent and happy as I watch the activities about the excellent
Ponce de Leon Hotel; but there are two cities in the South that I dream of going to for a quiet
happy winter of domesticity and work, in a rented house--it must be the right house, too--and
those cities are, first Charleston; then Savannah.

The Telfair Academy in the old Telfair mansion was left, by a member of the family, to the
city, to be used as a museum. Being somewhat skeptical about museums in cities of the size
of Savannah, not to say much larger cities, especially when they are art museums, I very nearly
omitted a visit to this one. Had I done so I would have missed seeing not only a number of
exceedingly interesting historic treasures, but what I believe to be the best public art collection
contained in any southern city.

The museum does, to be sure, contain a number of old "tight" paintings of the kind with which
the country was deluged at the time of the Chicago World's Fair, but upstairs there is a surprise
in shape of an exhibition of modern American paintings (the best paintings being produced in
the world to-day) showing brilliant selection. I was utterly amazed when I found this collection.
There were excellent canvases by Childe Hassam, Ernest Lawson, George Bellows, and other living
American painters whose work, while it is becoming more and more widely appreciated each year,
is still beyond all but the most advanced and discriminating buyers of paintings. I went into
ecstasies over this collection, and I said to myself: "Away down here in Savannah there is
some one buying better paintings for a little museum than the heads of many of the big museums
in the country have had sense enough or courage enough to buy. This man ought to be 'discovered'
and taken to some big museum where his appreciation will be put to the greatest use." With
that I rushed downstairs, sought out the curator, and asked who had purchased the modern American
pictures. And then my bubble was pricked, for who had they had, down there, buying their pictures
for them, but Gari Melchers! Naturally the pictures were good!

In one room of the building, on the ground floor, is a collection of fine old furniture, etc.,
which belonged to the Telfair family, including two beautiful mantelpieces of black and white
marble, some cabinets, and a very curious and fascinating extension dining-table, built of
mahogany. The table is perfectly round, and the leaves, instead of being added in the middle,
are curved pieces, fitting around the outer edge in two series, so that when extended to its
full capacity the table is still round. I have never seen another such table.

Also I found many interesting old books and papers passed down from the Telfairs. One of these
was a ledger with records of slave sales.

In a sale held Friday, October 14, 1774, Sir James Wright, the same British governor who was
presently put to flight, purchased four men, five women, nine boys, and one girl, at a total
cost of £820, or about $3,280. Sir Patrick Houston bought two women at £90, or $450. The whole
day's sale disposed of thirty-five men, seventeen women, twenty-seven boys and ten girls, at
a grand total of £3206, or roughly between nine and ten thousand dollars.

The Telfairs were great planters. Among the papers was one headed "Rules and Directions to
be strictly attended to by all overseers at Thorn Island Plantation." This plantation was on
the North Carolina side of the river, and was owned by Alexander Telfair, a brother of Miss
Mary Telfair who gave the Academy to the city. Dates which occur in the papers stamp them as
having been issued some time prior to 1837.

    No negro to have more than forty lashes, no matter what his crime.

    Any negro can have a ticket to go about the neighborhood, but cannot
    leave it without a pass. No strangers allowed to come on the place
    without a pass.

    All visiting between the Georgia plantation to be refused. [The
    Telfairs owned another plantation on the Georgia side of the river.]
    No one to get husbands or wives across the river. No night meeting
    or preaching allowed on the place except on Saturday or Sunday
    morning.

    If there is any fighting on the place whip all engaged in it, no
    matter what may be the cause it may be covered with.

    In extreme cases of sickness employ a physician. After a dose of
    castor oil is given, a dose of calomel, and blister applied, if no
    relief, then send.

    My negroes are not allowed to plant cotton for themselves.
    Everything else they may plant. Give them ticket to sell what they
    make.

    I have no Driver (slave-driver). You are to task the negroes
    yourself. They are responsible to you alone for work.

Certain negroes are mentioned by name:

    Many persons are indebted to Elsey for attending upon their negroes.
    I wish you to see them or send to them for the money.

    If Dolly is unable to return to cooking she must take charge of all
    the little negroes.

    Pay Free Moses two dollars and a half for taking care of things left
    at his landing.

Bull Street, the fashionable street of the city, is a gem of a street, despite the incursions
made at not infrequent intervals, by comparatively new, and often very ugly buildings. Every
few blocks Bull Street has to turn out of its course and make the circuit of one of the small
parks of which I have spoken, and this gives it charm and variety. On this street stands the
De Soto Hotel, which, when I first went to Savannah, years ago, was by all odds the leading
hostelry of the city. It is one of those great rambling buildings with a big porch out in front,
an open court in back, and everything about it, including the bedchambers, very spacious and
rather old fashioned. Lately the Savannah Hotel has been erected down at the business end of
Bull Street. It is a modern hotel of the more conventional commercial type. But even down there,
near the business part of town, it is not confronted by congested cobbled streets and clanging
trolley cars, but looks out upon one of the squares, filled with magnolias, oaks and palms.
But another time I think I shall go back to the De Soto.

The building of the Independent Presbyterian Church, on Bull Street, is one of the most beautiful
of its kind in the country, inside and out. It reminds one of the old churches in Charleston,
and it is gratifying to know that though the old church which stood on this site (dedicated
in 1819) burned in 1889, the congregation did not seize the opportunity to replace it with
a hideosity in lemon-yellow brick, but had the rare good sense to duplicate the old church
exactly, with the result that, though a new building, it has all the dignity and simple beauty
of an old one.

Broughton Street, the shopping street, crosses Bull Street in the downtown section, and looks
ashamed of itself as it does so, for it is about as commonplace a looking street as one may
see. There is simply nothing about it of distinction save its rather handsome name.

Elsewhere, however, there are several skyscrapers, most of them good looking buildings. It
seemed to me also that I had never seen so many banks as in Savannah, and I am told that it
is, indeed, a great banking city, and that the record of the Savannah banks for weathering
financial storms is very fine. On a good many corners where there are not banks there are clubs,
and some of these clubs are delightful and thoroughly metropolitan in character. I know of
no city in the North, having a population corresponding to that of Charleston or of Savannah,
which has clubs comparable with the best clubs of these cities, or of New Orleans. When it
is considered that of the population of these southern cities approximately one half, representing
negroes, must be deducted in considering the population from which eligibles must be drawn,
the excellence of southern clubs becomes remarkable in the extreme. Savannah, by the way, holds
one national record in the matter of clubs. It had the first golf club founded in America.
Exactly when the club was founded I cannot say, but Mr. H.H. Bruen, of Savannah, has in his
possession an invitation to a golf club ball held in the old City Hall in the year 1811.

The commercial ascendancy of Savannah over Charleston is due largely to natural causes. The
port of Savannah drains exports from a larger and richer territory than is tapped by Charleston,
though new railroads are greatly improving Charleston's situation in this respect. Savannah
is a shipping port for cotton from a vast part of the lower and central South, and is also
a great port for lumber, and the greatest port in the world for "naval stores." I did not know
what naval stores were when I went to Savannah. The term conjured up in my mind pictures of
piles of rope, pulleys and anchors. But those are not naval stores. Naval stores are gum products,
such as resin and turpentine, which are obtained from the long-leafed pines of South Carolina,
Georgia, Alabama and Florida. The traveler through these States cannot have failed to notice
gashes on the tree-trunks along the way. From these the resinous sap exudes and is caught in
cups, after which it is boiled, there in the woods, and thus separated into turpentine, resin
and pitch. Vast quantities of these materials are stored on the great modern docks of Savannah.
It is said that owing to wasteful methods, the long-leafed pine forests are being rapidly destroyed,
and that this industry will die out before very long because the eager grabbers of to-day's
dollars, having no thought for the future, fail to practise scientific forestry.

All about Savannah, within easy reach by trolley, motor or boat, lie pleasant retreats and
interesting things to see. The roads of the region, built by convict labor, are of the finest,
and the convict prison camps are worth a visit. In the Brown Farm camp, living conditions are
certainly more sanitary than in ninety nine out of a hundred negro homes. The place fairly
shines with cleanliness, and there are many cases in which "regulars" at this camp are no sooner
released than they offend again with the deliberate purpose of carrying out what may be termed
a "back to the farm" movement. The color line is drawn in southern jails and convict camps
as elsewhere. White prisoners occupy one barracks; negroes another. The food and accommodations
for both is the same. The only race discrimination I could discover was that when white prisoners
are punished by flogging, they are flogged with their clothes on, whereas, with negroes, the
back is exposed. The men in this camp are minor offenders and wear khaki overalls in place
of the stripes in which the worse criminals, quartered in another camp, are dressed. Strict
discipline is maintained, but the life is wholesome. The men are marched to work in the morning
and back at night escorted by guards who carry loaded shotguns, and who always have with them
a pack of ugly bloodhounds to be used in case escape is attempted.

       *       *       *       *       *

All the drives in this region are extremely picturesque, for the live-oak grows here at its
best, and is to be seen everywhere, its trunk often twenty or more feet in circumference, its
wide-spreading branches reaching out their tips to meet those of other trees of the same species,
so that sometimes the whole world seems to have a groined ceiling of foliage, a ceiling which
inevitably suggests a great shadowy cathedral from whose airy arches hang long gray pennons
of Spanish moss, like faded, tattered battle-flags.

On country roads you will come, now and then, upon a negro burial ground of very curious character.
There may be such negro cemeteries in the upper Southern States, but if so I have never seen
them. In this portion of Georgia they are numerous, and their distinguishing mark consists
in the little piles of household effects with which every grave is covered. I do not know whether
this is done to propitiate ghosts and devils (generally believed to "hant" these graveyards),
or whether it is the idea that the deceased can still find use for the assortment of pitchers,
bowls, cups, saucers, knives, forks, spoons, statuettes, alarm-clocks, and heaven only knows
what else, which were his treasured earthly possessions.

In Savannah, I have heard Commodore Tatnall, who used to live at Bonaventure, credited with
having originated the saying "Blood is thicker than water," but I am inclined to believe that
the Commodore merely made apposite use of an old formula. The story is told of one of the old
Tatnalls that in the midst of a large dinner-party which he was giving at his mansion at Bonaventure
plantation, a servant entered and informed him that the house was on fire. Whereupon the old
thoroughbred, instead of turning fireman, persisted in his rôle of host, ordering the full
dining-room equipment to be moved out upon the lawn, where the company remained at dinner while
the house burned down.

Most of the old houses of the plantations on the river have long since been destroyed. That
at Whitehall was burned by the negroes when Sherman's army came by, but the old trees and gardens
still endure, including a tall hedge of holly which is remarkable even in this florescent region.
The old plantation house at the Hermitage, approached by a handsome avenue of live-oaks, is,
I believe, the only one of those ancient mansions which still stands, and it does not stand
very strongly, for, beautiful though it is in its abandonment and decay, it is like some noble
old gentleman dying alone in an attic, of age, poverty and starvation--dying proudly as poor
Charles Gayarré did in New Orleans.

The Hermitage has, I believe, no great history save what is written in its old chipped walls
of stucco-covered brick, and the slave-cabins which still form a background for it. It is a
story of baronial decay, resulting, doubtless, from the termination of slavery. Hordes of negroes
of the "new issue" infest the old slave-cabins and on sight of visitors rush out with almost
violent demands for money, in return for which they wish to sing. Their singing is, however,
the poorest negro singing I have ever heard. All the spontaneity, all the relish, all the vividness
which makes negro singing wonderful, has been removed, here, by the fixed idea that singing
is not a form of expression but a mere noise to be given vent to for the purpose of extracting
backsheesh. It is saddening to witness the degradation, through what may be called professionalism,
of any great racial quality. These negroes, half mendicant, half traders on the reputation
of their race, express professionalism in its lowest form. They are more pitiful than the professional
tarantella dancers who await the arrival of tourists, in certain parts of southern Italy, as
spiders await flies.

CHAPTER LII

MISS "JAX" AND SOME FLORIDA GOSSIP

    "Or mebbe you 're intendin' of
      Investments? Orange-plantin'? Pine?
    Hotel? or Sanitarium? What above
      This yea'th can be your line?..."

    SIDNEY LANIER ("A FLORIDA GHOST.")

It is the boast of Jacksonville (known locally by the convenient abbreviation "Jax") that it
stands as the "Gate to Florida." But the fact that a gate is something through which people
pass--usually without stopping--causes some anguish to an active Chamber of Commerce, which
has been known to send bands to the railway station to serenade tourists in the hope of enticing
them to alight.

If I were to personify Jacksonville, it would be, I think, as an amiable young woman, member
of a domestic family, whose papa and mama had moved to Florida from somewhere else--for it
is as hard to find a native of Jacksonville in that city as to find a native New Yorker in
New York. Miss Jacksonville's papa, as I conceive it, has prospered while daughter has been
growing up, and has bought for her a fine large house on a main corner, where many people pass.
Having reached maturity Miss Jacksonville wishes to be in Florida society--to give, as it were,
house parties, like those of her neighbors, the other winter resorts. She sees people passing
her doors all winter long, and she says to herself: "I must get some of these people to come in."

To this end she brushes off the walk, lays a carpet on the steps, puts flowers in the vases,
orders up a lot of fancy food and drink (from the very admirable Hotel Mason), turns on the
lights and the Victor, leaves the front door invitingly open, and hopes for the best. Soon
people begin to come in, but as she meets them she discovers that most of them have come to
see papa on business; only a few have come on her account. They help themselves to sandwiches,
look about the room, and listen to what Miss Jacksonville has to say.

Time passes. Nothing happens. She asks how they like the chairs.

"Very comfortable," they assure her.

"Do have some more to eat and drink," says she.

"What is your history?" a guest asks her presently.

"I haven't much history to speak of," she replies. "They tell me Andrew Jackson had his territorial
government about where my house stands, but I don't know much about it. We don't care much
about history in our family."

"What do you do with yourself?"

"Oh, I keep house, and go occasionally to the Woman's Club, and in the evenings father tells
me about his business."

"Very nice," says one guest, whom we shall picture as a desirable and wealthy young man from
the North. "Now let's do something. Do you play or sing? Are you athletic? Do you go boating
on the St. John's River? Do you gamble? Can you make love?"

"I dance a little and play a little golf out at the Florida Country Club," she says, with but
small signs of enthusiasm. "The thing I'm really most interested in, though, is father's business.
He lost a lot of money in the fire of 1901, but he's made it all back and a lot more besides."

"What about surf-bathing?" asks the pleasure-seeking visitor, stifling a yawn.

"There's Atlantic Beach only eighteen miles from here. It's a wonderful beach. Father's putting
a million in improvements out there, but there's no time to go there just now. However, if
you'd like to, I can take you down and show you the new docks he has built."

"Oh, no, thanks," says the guest. "I don't care for docks--not, that is, unless we can go boating."

"I'm afraid we can't do that," says Miss Jacksonville. "We don't use the river much for pleasure.
I can't say just why, unless it is that every one is too busy.... But please eat something
more, and do have something to drink. There's plenty for every one."

"I must be running along," says the visitor. "I've been invited to call at some other houses
down the block. By the way, what is the name of your neighbor next door?"

"St. Augustine," says Jacksonville, with a little reluctance. "She is of Spanish descent and
sets great store by it. If you call there she'll show you a lot of interesting old relics she
has, but I assure you that when it comes to commercial success her family isn't one-two-three
with papa."

"Thanks," says the visitor, "but just at the moment commerce doesn't appeal to me. Who lives
beyond her?"

Miss Jacksonville sighs. "There are some pleasant, rather attractive people named Ormonde,
beyond," she says, "and a lively family named Daytona next door to them. Neither family is
in business, like papa. They just play all the time. Then come a number of modest places, and
after them, in the big yellow and white house with the palm trees all around it--but I'd advise
you to keep away from there! Yes, you'd better go by that house. On the other side of it, in
another lovely house, live some nicer, simpler people named Miami. Or if you like fishing,
you might drop in on Mrs. Long-Key--she's wholesome and sweet, and goes out every day to catch
tarpon. Or, again, you might--"

"What's the matter with the people in the big yellow and white house surrounded by palm trees?
Why shouldn't I go there?" asks the guest.

"A young widow lives there," says Miss Jacksonville primly. "I don't know much about her history,
but she looks to me as though she had been on the stage. She's frightfully frivolous--not at
all one of our representative people."

"Ah!" says the visitor. "Is she pretty?"

"Well," admits Miss Jacksonville, "I suppose she is--in a fast way. But she's all rouged and
she overdresses. Her bathing suits are too short at the bottom and her evening gowns are too
short at the top. Yes, and even at that, she has a trick of letting the shoulder straps slip
off and pretending she doesn't know it has happened."

"What's her name?"

"Mrs. Palm-Beach."

"Oh," says the visitor. "I've heard of her. She's always getting into the papers. Tell me more."

Miss Jacksonville purses her lips and raises her eyebrows. "Really," she says, "I don't like
to talk scandal."

"Oh, come on! Do!" pleads the visitor. "Is she bad--bad and beautiful and alluring?"

"Judge for yourself," says Miss Jacksonville sharply. "She keeps that enormous place of hers
shut up except for about two months or so in the winter, when she comes down gorgeously dressed,
with more jewelry than is worn by the rest of the neighborhood put together. Few Southerners
go to her house. It's full of rich people from all over the North."

"Is she rich?"

"You'd think so to look at her--especially if you didn't know where she got her money. But
she really hasn't much of her own. She's a grafter."

"How does she manage it?"

"Men give her money."

"But why?"

"Because she knows how to please the rich. She understands them. She makes herself beautiful
for them. She plays, and drinks, and gambles, and dances with them, and goes riding with them
in wheel chairs by moonlight, and sits with them by the sea, and holds their hands, and gets
them sentimental. There's some scent she uses that is very seductive--none of the rest of us
have been able to find out exactly what it is."

"But how does she get their money?"

"She never tells a hard-luck story--you can't get money out of the kind she goes with, that
way. She takes the other tack. She whispers to them, and laughs with them, and fondles them,
and makes them love her, and when they love her she says: 'But dearie, be reasonable! Think
how many people love me! I like to have you here, you fat old darling with the gold jingling
in your pockets! but I can't let you sit with me unless you pay. Yes, I'm expensive, I admit.
But don't you love this scent I wear? Don't you adore my tropical winter sea, my gardens, my
palm trees, my moonlight, and my music? They are all for you, dearie--so why shouldn't you
pay? Don't I take you from the northern cold and slush? Haven't I built a siding for your private
car, and made an anchorage for your yacht? Don't I let you do as you please? Don't I keep you
amused? Don't you love to look at me? Don't I put my warm red lips to yours? Well, then, dearie,
what is all your money for?' ... That is her way of talking to them! That is the sort of creature
that she is!"

"Shocking!" says the visitor, rising and looking for his hat "You say hers is the third large
house from here?"

"Yes. Remember, she's as mercenary as can be!"

"Thanks. I can take care of myself. If she's amusing that suits me. Good-by."

In the vestibule he pauses to count his money.

"Jacksonville seems to be a nice girl," he says to himself as he hastens down the block. "I
imagine she might make a good wife and mother, and that she'd help her husband on in business.
However, I'm not thinking of getting married and settling down in Florida. I'm out for some
fun. I think I'll run in and call upon Mrs. Palm-Beach."

CHAPTER LIII

PASSIONATE PALM BEACH

    A very merry, dancing, drinking,
    Laughing, quaffing and unthinking time.

    --DRYDEN.

Like all places in which idlers try to avoid finding out that they are idle, Palm Beach has
very definite customs as to where to go, and at what time to go there. Excepting in its hours
for going to bed and getting up, it runs on schedule. The official day begins with the bathing
hour--half past eleven to half past twelve--when the two or three thousand people from the
pair of vast hotels assemble before the casino on the beach. Golfers will, of course, be upon
the links before this hour; fishermen will be casting from the pier or will be out in boats
searching the sail fish--that being the "fashionable" fish at the present time; ladies of excessive
circumference will be panting rapidly along the walks, their eyes holding that look of dreamy
determination which painters put into the eyes of martyrs, and which a fixed intention to lose
twenty pounds puts into the eyes of banting women. So, too, certain gentlemen of swarthy skin
make their way to the casino sun parlor, where they disrobe and bake until the bathing hour.
The object of this practice is to acquire, as nearly as a white man may, the complexion of
a mulatto, and it is surprising to see how closely the skins of some more ardent members of
the "Browning Club," as this group is called, match those of their chair boys. The underlying
theory of the "Browning Club" is that a triple-plated coat of tan, taken north in March, advertises
the wearer as having been at Palm Beach during the entire winter, thus establishing him as
a man not merely of means, but of great endurance.

The women of Palm Beach seem to be divided into two distinct schools of thought on the subject
of tanning. While none of them compete with the radicals of the "Browning Club," one may nevertheless
observe that, in evening dress, many young ladies reveal upon their necks, shoulders, and arms,
stenciled outlines of the upper margins of their bathing suits. Ladies of the opposing school,
upon the contrary, guard the whiteness of their skins as jealously as the men of the "Browning
Club" guard their blackness. Rather than be touched with tan, many ladies of the latter group
deny themselves the pleasures of the surf. The parasols beneath which they arrive upon the
sands are not lowered until they are safely seated beneath the green and blue striped canvas
tops of their beach chairs, and it may be observed that even then they are additionally fortified
against the light, by wide black hats and thick dark veils draped to mask their faces up to
the eyes; "harem" veils, they call them--the name, however, signifying nothing polygamous.

A pleasant diversion at the beginning of the bathing hour occurs when some mere one-horse millionaire
from a Middle-Western town appears on the beach with his family. He is newly arrived and is
under the fond delusion that he is as good as anybody else and that his money is as good as
any other person's money. Seeing the inviting rows of beach chairs, he and his family plump
into several of them. They are hardly settled, however, when the man who attends to the beach
chairs comes and asks them to get out, saying that the chairs are reserved.

The other thinks the man is lying like a head waiter, and demands to know for whom the chairs
are reserved.

In reply the beach-chair man mentions, with suitable deference, the name of Mrs. Hopkinson
Skipkinson Jumpkinson-Jones.

"Well," cries the Middle-Westerner, "Mrs. Jones isn't here yet, is she? She can't use the chairs
now, can she, if she isn't here?"

Even without this evidence that he does not grasp at all, the seriousness of the beach-chair
situation, the fact that the uncouth stranger has referred to Mrs. H.S. Jumpkinson-Jones merely
as "Mrs. Jones," brands him among the Palm Beach "regulars" who have overheard him, as a barbarian
of the barbarians. People in neighboring chairs at once turn their backs upon him and glance
at each other knowingly with raised eyebrows. At this juncture, let us hope, the daughter of
the intruder manages to pry him loose; let us hope also that she takes him aside and tells
him what everybody ought to know: namely, that Mrs. H.S. Jumpkinson-Jones has been a society
leader ever since the "Journal" published the full-page Sunday story about her having gold
fillings put in her Boston terrier's teeth. That was away back in 1913, just before she was
allowed to get her divorce from Royal Tewksbury Johnson III of Paris, Newport, and New York.
The day after the divorce she married her present husband, and up to last year, when the respective
wives of a munitions millionaire and a moving-picture millionaire began to cut in on her, no
one thought of denying her claim to be the most wasteful woman in Palm Beach.

True, she may not come down to the beach to-day, but in that case it is obviously proper that
her chairs--including those of her dog and her husband--remain magnificently vacant throughout
the bathing hour.

The lady is, however, likely to appear. She will be wearing one of the seventy hats which,
we have learned by the papers, she brought with her, and a pint or so of her lesser pearls.
Her dog--which is sometimes served beside her at table at the Beach Club, and whose diet is
the same as her own, even to strawberries and cream followed by a demi tasse--will be in attendance;
and her husband, whose diet is even richer, may also appear if he has recovered from his matutinal
headache. Here she will sit through the hour, gossiping with her friends, watching the antics
of several beautiful, dubious women, camp followers of the rich, who add undoubted interest
to the place; calling languidly to her dog: "Viens, Tou-tou! Viens vite!" above all waiting
patiently, with crossed knees, for news-service photographers to come and take her picture--a
picture which, when we see it presently in "Vogue," "Vanity Fair," or a Sunday newspaper, will
present indisputable proof that Mrs. H.S. Jumpkinson-Jones and the ladies sitting near her
(also with legs crossed) refrained from wearing bathing suits neither through excessive modesty
nor for fear of revealing deformity of limb.

Many a Mrs. H.S. Jumpkinson-Jones has beaten her way to glory by the Palm Beach route. Many
of the names which sound vaguely familiar when you read them in connection with the story of
a jewel robbery, in lists of "those present," or in an insinuating paragraph in the tattered
copy of "Town Topics" which you pick up, in lieu of reading matter, from the table in your
dentist's waiting room, first broke into the paradise of the society column by way of this
resort. For a woman with money and the press-agent type of mind it is not a difficult thing
to accomplish. One must think of sensational things to do--invent a new fad in dress, or send
one's dog riding each day in a special wheel chair, or bring down one's own private dancing
instructor or golf instructor at $5,000 for the season. Above all, one must be nice to the
correspondents of newspapers. Never must one forget to do that. Never must one imagine oneself
so securely placed in society columns that one may forget the reporters who gave one that place.

