TR:] = Inline transcriber notes. See end of document for additional
        notes.

INFORMANTS

Jackson, John H.                        1 Johnson, Ben                            8 Johnson,
Isaac                         14 Johnson, Tina                          20 Jones, Bob     
23 Jones, Clara                       27, 30 Jordon, Abner                          34

Lassiter, Jane                         37 Lawson, Dave                           43 Lee, Jane
51 Littlejohn, Chana                      54

McAllister, Charity                    60 McCoy, Clara Cotton                    64 McCullers,
Henrietta                   72 McCullough, Willie                     76 McLean, James Turner
82 Magwood, Frank                         90 Manson, Jacob                          95 Manson,
Roberta                       100 Markham, Millie                       105 Mials, Maggie 
109 Mitchel, Anna                         113 Mitchner, Patsy                       116 Moore,
Emeline                        124 Moore, Fannie                         127 Moring, Richard
C.                    138

Nelson, Julius                        143 Nichols, Lila                         147

Organ, Martha                         151

Parker, Ann                           155 Penny, Amy                            158 Perry,
Lily                           162 Perry, Valley                         167 Pitts, Tempe 
173 Plummer, Hannah                       177 Pool, Parker                          183

Raines, Rena                          192 Ransome, Anthony                      196 Richardson,
Caroline                  198 Riddick, Charity                      203 Riddick, Simuel   
207 Rienshaw, Adora                       212 Robinson, Celia                       216 Rogers,
George                        220 Rogers, Hattie                        226 Rountree, Henry
232

Scales, Anderson                      236 Scales, Catherine                     244 Scales,
Porter                        252 Scott, William                        259 Shaw, Tiney   
265 Smith, John                           269 Smith, John                           276 Smith,
Josephine                      281 Smith, Nellie                         285 Smith, Sarah Ann
289 Smith, William                        292 Sorrell, Laura                        295 Sorrell,
Ria                          299 Spell, Chaney                         306 Spikes, Tanner 
309 Stephenson, Annie                     312 Stewart, Sam T.                       316 Stone,
Emma                           324 Sykes, William                        327

Taylor, Annie                         332 Taylor, R.S.                          335 Thomas,
Elias                         342 Thomas, Jacob                         348 Thornton, Margaret
352 Tillie                                355 Trell, Ellen                          359 Trentham,
Henry James                 363

Upperman, Jane Anne Privette          367

Whitley, Ophelia                      371 Wilcox, Tom                           376 Williams,
Catharine                   380 Williams, Rev. Handy                  385 Williams, John Thomas
390 Williams, Lizzie                      394 Williams, Penny                       401 Williams,
Plaz                        406 Williamson, Melissa                   410 Woods, Alex     
414 Wright, Anna                          420

Yellady, Dilly                        425 Yellerday, Hilliard                   431

ILLUSTRATIONS

Tina Johnson                           20

Fannie Moore                          127

Julius Nelson                         143

Lila Nichols                          147

Tempe Pitts                           173

Adora Rienshaw                        212

William Scott                         259

Tiney Shaw                            265

John Smith                            269

Josephine Smith                       281

Sam T. Stewart                        316

William Sykes                         327

N.C. District:      No. 2
Worker:             Mrs. W.N. Harriss
No. Words:          1363
Subject:            Memories of Uncle Jackson
Interviewed:        John H. Jackson
                    309 S. Sixth St.
                    Wilmington, N.C.

[TR: Date stamp: JUN 26 1937]

MEMORIES OF UNCLE JACKSON

"I was born in 1851, in the yard where my owner lived next door to the City Hall. I remember
when they was finishin' up the City Hall. I also remember the foreman, Mr. James Walker, he
was general manager. The overseen (overseer) was Mr. Keen. I remember all the bricklayers;
they all was colored. The man that plastered the City Hall was named George Price, he plastered
it inside. The men that plastered the City Hall outside and put those colum's up in the front,
their names was Robert Finey and William Finey, they both was colored. Jim Artis now was a
contractor an' builder. He done a lot of work 'round Wilmin'ton.

"Yes'm, they was slaves, mos' all the fine work 'round Wilmin'ton was done by slaves. They
called 'em artisans. None of 'em could read, but give 'em any plan an' they could foller it
to the las' line."

Interviewer: "Did the owner collect the pay for the labor, Uncle Jackson?"

"No, ma'm. That they did'n. We had a lot of them artisans 'mongst our folks. They all lived
on our place with they fam'lies. They hired theyselves where they pleased. They colle'ted they
pay, an' the onliest thing the owner took was enough to support they fam'lies. They all lived
in our yard, it was a great big place, an' they wimmen cooked for 'em and raised the chilluns.

"You know, they lays a heap o' stress on edication these days. But edication is one thing an'
fireside trainin' is another. We had fireside trainin'.

"We went to church regular. All our people marched behind our owners, an' sat up in the galle'y
of the white folks church. Now, them that went to St. James Church behind their white folks
didn' dare look at nobody else. 'Twant allowed. They were taught they were better than anybody
else. That was called the 'silk stockin' church. Nobody else was fitten to look at.

"My mother was the laund'ess for the white folks. In those days ladies wore clo'es, an' plenty
of 'em. My daddy was one of the part Indian folks. My mammy was brought here from Washin'ton
City, an' when her owner went back home he sold her to my folks. You know, round Washin'ton
an' up that way they was Ginny (Guinea) niggers, an' that's what my mammy was. We had a lot
of these malatto negroes round here, they was called 'Shuffer Tonies', they was free issues
and part Indian. The leader of 'em was James Sampson. We child'en was told to play in our own
yard and not have nothin' to do with free issue chil'en or the common chil'en 'cross the street,
white or colored, because they was'nt fitten to 'sociate with us. You see our owners was rich
folks. Our big house is the one where the ladies of Sokosis (Sorosis) has their Club House,
an' our yard spread all round there, an' our house servants, an' some of the bes' artisans
in Wilmin'ton lived in our yard.

"You know, I'm not tellin' you things what have been told me, but I'm tellin' you things I knows.

"I remember when the Zoabbes company came from Georgia here to Wilmin'ton an' they had all
ladies as officers.[1]

"I remember when the Confederates captured part of the Union Army at Fort Sumter, S.C., and
they brought them here to Wilmin'ton and put them out under Fourth Street bridge, and the white
ladies of Wilmin'ton, N.C. cooked food and carried it by baskets full to them. We all had plenty
of food. A warehouse full of everything down there by the river nigh Red Cross Street, an'
none of us ever went hungry 'till the war was over.

"I remember when Gen'ral Grant's Army came to the river. They mounted guns to boombar the city.
Mr. John Dawson an' Mr. Silas Martin, they went on the corner of Second an' Nun Streets on
the top of Ben Berry's house an' run up a white sheet for a flag, an' the Yankees did'n' boombar
us. An' Mr. Martin gave his house up to the Progro Marshells, and my mother cleaned up the
house an' washed for them. Her name was Caroline West.

"I remember when that Provo Marshell told the colored people that any house in Wilmin'ton they
liked, that was empty, they could go take it, an' the first one they took was the fine Bellamy
Mansion on Market an' Fifth Street."

"Uncle Jackson", asked the interviewer, "don't you remember that house was headquarters of
the Federal Army? How could colored people occupy it?"

Uncle Jackson: "I don't remember nothin' about Federal soldiers bein' in that house, but I'm
tellin' you I knows a lot of common colored folks was in it because I seen 'em sittin' on the
piazza an' all up an' down those big front steps. I seen 'em. Nice colored people wouldn't
'a gone there. They had respec' for theirselves an' their white folks. But Dr. Bellamy came
home soon with his fam'ly an' those colored people got out. They wan't there long.

"Endurin' of slavery I toted water for the fam'ly to drink. I remember when there was springs
under where the new Court House is now, and all the white folks livin' 'round there drank water
from those springs. They called it Jacob Spring. There was also a spring on Market Street between
Second and Third Streets, that was called McCrayer (McCrary) spring. They didn't 'low nobody
but rich folks to get water from that spring. Of co'se I got mine there whenever I chose to
tote it that far. We did'n' work so hard in those days. I don't know nothin' about field han's
an' workmen on the river, but so far as I knows the carpenters an' people like that started
work at 8 o'clock A.M. and stopped at 5 o'clock P.M. Of course 'round the house it was different.
Our folks done pretty much what the white folks did because we was all pretty much one an' other.

"Did I ever know of any slaves bein' whipped? I seen plenty of 'em whipped over at the jail,
but them was bad niggers, (this with a grimace of disgust, and shaking of the head), they needed
whippin'. But (with a chuckle) I sho' would have hated to see anybody put they han's on one
of my owner's people. We was all 'spectable an' did'n know nothin' about whippen. Our mammy's
spanked us aplenty, yes mam they did.

"I remember when they didn't have no trussels 'cross either river, an' they had a passages
boat by the name of Walker Moore, an' the warf was up there by the Charlotte railroad (S.A.L.)
The Boat would take you from there to the bluff an' then you would have to catch the train
to go to Greensboro, and other places in No'th Carolina.

"I remember when the Fourth Street Fire Department bell was in front of the City Hall. An'
Mr. Maginny had his school right back of the City Hall.

"I believe we was all happy as slaves because we had the best of kere (care). I don't believe
none of us was sold off because I never heard tell of it. I have always served nice folks an'
never 'sociated with any other kind. I brought up Mis ----'s chil'ren an' now she gives me
a life intrust in this place I lives in. I hav'nt never to say really wanted for anything.
I hav'nt never bothered with wimmen, an' had nothin' to bother me.

"I mus' tell you' bout Gov'ner Dudley's election, an' the free issue niggers. They say Mr.
Dudley told 'em if they'd vote for him he'd do more for 'em than any man ever had. So they
voted for him an' he was elected. Then he ups an' calls a const'utional convention in Raleigh
an' had all the voting taken away from 'em. An' that the big thing he done for em."[2]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Note: Have not been able to verify this memory, and think perhaps the unusual
uniforms of the Zoaves caused the small boy to think they were women, or some adult may have
amused themselves by telling him so.]

[Footnote 2: Note: Governor Dudley was elected before Uncle Jackson was born, but he enjoyed
thoroughly telling this joke on the 'free issue niggers'.]

N.C. District:    No. 2 Worker:           Mary A. Hicks No. Words:        920 Subject:    
EX-SLAVE STORY Story teller:     Ben Johnson Editor:           Daisy Bailey Waitt

[TR: Date stamp: JUN 1 1937]

EX-SLAVE STORY

An interview with Ben Johnson 85 of Hecktown, Durham, Durham County, May 20, 1937.

Uncle Ben, who is nearly blind and who walks with a stick, was assisted to the porch by his
wife who sat down near him in a protecting attitude. He is much less striking than his wife
who is small and dainty with perfect features and snow white hair worn in two long braids down
her back. She wore enormous heart shaped earrings, apparently of heavy gold; while Uncle Ben
talked she occasionally prompted him in a soft voice.

"I wuz borned in Orange County and I belonged ter Mr. Gilbert Gregg near Hillsboro. I doan
know nothin' 'bout my mammy an' daddy, but I had a brother Jim who wuz sold ter dress young
missus fer her weddin'. De tree am still standin' whar I set under an' watch 'em sell Jim.
I set dar an' I cry an' cry, 'specially when dey puts de chains on him an' carries him off,
an' I ain't neber felt so lonesome in my whole life. I ain't neber hyar from Jim since an'
I wonder now sometimes if'en he's still livin'.

"I knows dat de marster wuz good ter us an' he fed an' clothed us good. We had our own gyarden
an' we wuz gittin' long all right.

"I seed a whole heap of Yankees when dey comed ter Hillsboro an' most of 'em ain't got no respeck
fer God, man, nor de debil. I can't 'member so much 'bout 'em do' cause we lives in town an'
we has a gyard.

"De most dat I can tell yo' 'bout am de Ku Klux. I neber will fergit when dey hung Cy Guy.
Dey hung him fer a scandelous insult ter a white 'oman an' dey comed atter him a hundert strong.

"Dey tries him dar in de woods, an' dey scratches Cy's arm ter git some blood, an' wid dat
blood dey writes dat he shall hang 'tween de heavens an' de yearth till he am daid, daid, daid,
an' dat any nigger what takes down de body shall be hunged too.

"Well sar, de nex' mornin' dar he hung, right ober de road an' de sentence hangin' ober his
haid. Nobody'ud bother wid dat body fer four days an' dar hit hung, swingin' in de wind, but
de fou'th day de sheriff comes an' takes hit down.

"Dar wuz Ed an' Cindy, who 'fore de war belonged ter Mr. Lynch an' atter de war he told 'em
ter move. He gives 'em a month an' dey ain't gone, so de Ku Kluxes gits 'em.

"Hit wuz on a cold night when dey comed an' drugged de niggers out'n bed. Dey carried 'em down
in de woods an' whup dem, den dey throws 'em in de pond, dere bodies breakin' de ice. Ed come
out an' come ter our house, but Cindy ain't been seed since.

"Sam Allen in Caswell County wuz tol' ter move an' atter a month de hundret Ku Klux come a-totin'
his casket an' dey tells him dat his time has come an' if'en he want ter tell his wife good
bye an' say his prayers hurry up.

"Dey set de coffin on two cheers an' Sam kisses his ole oman who am a-cryin', den he kneels
down side of his bed wid his haid on de piller an' his arms throwed out front of him.

"He sets dar fer a minute an' when he riz he had a long knife in his hand. 'Fore he could be
grabbed he done kill two of de Ku Kluxes wid de knife, an' he done gone out'n de do'. Dey ain't
ketch him nother, an' de nex' night when dey comed back, 'termined ter git him dey shot ano'her
nigger by accident.

"I Imembers [TR: 'members] seein' Joe Turner, another nigger hung at Hillsboro in '69 but I
plumb fergot why it wuz.

"I know one time Miss Hendon inherits a thousand dollars from her pappy's 'state an' dat night
she goes wid her sweetheart ter de gate, an' on her way back ter de house she gits knocked
in de haid wid a axe. She screams an' her two nigger sarvants, Jim an' Sam runs an' saves her
but she am robbed.

"Den she tells de folkses dat Jim an' Sam am de guilty parties, but her little sister swears
dat dey ain't so dey gits out of it.

"Atter dat dey fin's out dat it am five mens, Atwater, Edwards, Andrews, Davis an' Markham.
De preacher comes down to whar dey am hangin' ter preach dar funeral an' he stan's dar while
lightnin' plays roun' de dead mens haids an' de win' blows de trees, an he preaches sich a
sermon as I ain't neber hyard before.

"Bob Boylan falls in love wid another oman so he burns his wife an' four youngins up in dere house.

"De Ku Kluxes gits him, of course, an' dey hangs him high on de old red oak on de Hillsboro
Road. Atter dey hunged him his lawyer says ter us boys, 'Bury him good, boys, jist as good
as you'd bury me if'en I wuz daid.'

"I shuck han's wid Bob 'fore dey hunged him an' I he'ped ter bury him too an' we bury him nice
an' we all hopes dat he done gone ter glory."

N.C. District:    No. 2 Worker:           T. Pat Matthews No. Words:        991 Subject:  
ISAAC JOHNSON Story teller:     Isaac Johnson Editor:           Daisy Bailey Waitt

ISAAC JOHNSON Lillington, North Carolina, Route 1, Harnett County.

"I am feelin' very well this mornin', while I don't feel like I used to. I done so much hard
work, I'm 'bout all in. Dey didn't have all dese new fangled things to do work an' go 'bout
on when I wus a boy. No, no, you jes' had to git out an' do all de work, most all de work by
hand. I wus ten years old when de Yankees come through. I wus born Feb. 12, 1855.

"I belonged to Jack Johnson. My missus' name wus Nancy. My father wus Bunch Matthews; he belonged
to old man Drew Matthews, a slave owner. My mother wus named Tilla Johnson. She belonged to
Jack Johnson, my marster. De plantation wus near Lillington, on the north side o' de Cape Fear
River and ran down to near de Lillington Cross roads one mile from de river. I had one brother
and six sisters. My brother wus named Phil and my sisters name Mary, Caroline, Francis and
I don't remember de others names right now. Been so long since I saw any of 'em. Dey are all
dead. Yes sir, dey are all dead. I do not remember my grandpa and grandma. No sir, I don't.

"I wus too small to work, dey had me to do little things like feedin' de chickens, an' mindin'
de table sometimes; but I wus too small to work. Dey didn't let children work much in dem days
till dey were thirteen or fourteen years old. I had plenty to eat, good clothes, a nice place
to sleep an' a good time. Marster loved his slaves an' other white folks said he loved a nigger
more den he did white folks. Our food wus fixed up fine. It wus fixed by a regular cook who
didn't do anything but cook. We had gardens, a plenty o' meat, a plenty, an' mo' biscuit den
a lot o' white folks had. I kin remember de biscuit. I never hunted any, but I went bird blindin'
an' set bird traps. I caught lots o' birds.

"Jack Johnson, my marster never had no children of his own. He had a boy with him by the name
of Stephen, a nephew of his, from one of his brothers. Marster Jack had three brothers Willis,
Billy, and Matthew. I don' remember any of his sisters. There was 'bout four thousand acres
in de plantation an' 'bout 25 slaves. Marster would not have an overseer.

"No sir, de slaves worked very much as they pleased. He whupped a slave now an' then, but not
much. I have seen him whup 'em. He had some unruly niggers. Some of 'em were part Indian, an'
mean. Dey all loved him doe. I never saw a slave sold. He kept his slaves together. He didn't
want to git rid of any of 'em. We went to de white folks church at Neill's Creek a missionary
Baptis' Church.

"We played during the Christmas holidays, an' we got 'bout two weeks 4th of July, and lay by
time, which wus 'bout the fourth. We had great times at corn shuckin's, log rollin's and cotton
pickin's. We had dances. Marster lowed his slaves lots o' freedom. My mother used to say he
wus better den other folks. Yes, she said her marster wus better than other folks.

"The white folks didn't teach us to read an' write. I cannot read an' write, but de white folks,
only 'bout half or less den half, could read an' write den. Dere were very few pore white folks
who could read an' write. I remember de baptizin's at de Reuben Matthews Mill Pond. Sometimes
after a big meeting dey would baptize twenty four at one time. No slaves run away from Marster.
Dey didn't have any scuse to do so, cause whites and colored fared alike at Marster's. We played
base, cat, rolly hole, and a kind of base ball called 'round town.

"Dr. John McNeill looked after us when we were sick. We used a lot of herbs an' things. Drank
sassafras tea an' mullen tea. We also used sheep tea for measles, you knows dat. You know how
it wus made. Called sheep pill tea. It shore would cuore de measles. 'Bout all dat would cuore
measles den. Dey were bad den. Wus den dey is now.

"I saw Wheeler's Cavalry. Dey come through ahead of de Yankees. I saw colored people in de
Yankee uniforms. Dey wore blue and had brass buttons on 'em. De Yankees an' Wheeler's Cavalry
took everything dey wanted, meat, chickens, an' stock. We stayed on wid Marster after de war.
I've never lived out of de state. We lived in de same place ontill old Marster an' Missus died.
Den we lived wid deir relations right on an' here. I am now on a place deir heirs own.

"Ole Marster loved his dram, an' he gave it to all his slaves. It sold for ten cents a quart.
He made brandy by de barrels, an' at holidays all drank together an' had a good time. I never
saw any of 'em drunk. People wan't mean when dey were drinking den. It wus so plentiful nobody
notices it much. Marster would tell de children 'bout Raw Head and Bloody Bones an' other things
to skeer us. He would call us to de barn to git apples an' run an' hide, an' we would have
a time findin' him. He give de one who found him a apple. Sometimes he didn't give de others
no apple.

"I married Ellen Johnson May 22, 1865 de year de war went up, an' my wife is livin' as you
see, an' able to be about. I'm not able to work, not able to go out anywhere by myself. I know
I cain't las' much longer but I'm thankful to de Lord for sparin' me dis long."

AC

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          Mary A. Hicks No. Words:       346 Subject:       
TINA JOHNSON Story teller:    Tina Johnson Editor:          Daisy Bailey Waitt

]

TINA JOHNSON Ex-Slave Story

An interview with Tina Johnson 85, S. Bloodworth Street, Raleigh.

"I wuz bawned in Richmon', Georgia 'round eighty-five years ago. My mammy wuz named Cass an'
my father, dat is my step-father wuz named John Curtis. I got de name of Johnson frum Gen'l
Johnson, I doan know who my real daddy wuz.

"My mammy belonged ter a Mis' Berry who wuz pretty good ter her, but we ain't had nothin' but
de coarsest food an' clothes. I had one brother name Dennis an' me an' him wucked wid de others
in de cotton patch.

"We had done moved nigh Augusta when Sherman come, an' Sherman's sister wuz a-livin' in Augusta.
Dat's de reason dat Sherman missed us, case he ain't wantin' ter 'sturb his sister none.

"I ain't seed nary a Yankee, but fer two days an' nights I hyard de guns roarin' an' felt de
earth shakin' lak a earthquake wuz hittin' it. De air wuz dark an' de clouds hunged low, de
whole earth seemed ter be full of powder an' yo' nostrils seemed lak dey would bust wid de
sting of it.

"Atter de surrender we stayed on an' went through de Ku Klux scare. I know dat de Ku Kluxes
went ter a nigger dance one night an' whupped all of de dancers. Ole Marster Berry wuz mad,
case he ain't sont fer' em at all an' he doan want dem.

"Seberal year's atter de war mammy married John Curtis in de Baptist church at Augusta, an'
me an' Dennis seed de ceremony. I pulled a good one on a white feller 'bout dat onct. He axed
me if I knowed dat my pappy an' mammy wuz married 'fore I wuz borned. I sez ter him dat I wonder
if he knows whar his mammy an' pappy wuz married when he wuz borned.

"We comed ter Raleigh 'fore things wuz settled atter de war, an' I watches de niggers livin'
on kush, co'nbread, 'lasses an' what dey can beg an' steal frum de white folkses. Dem days
shore wuz bad."

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          Mary Hicks No. Words:       450 Subject:         EX-SLAVE
STORY Story Teller:    BOB JONES Editor:          George L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: AUG 17 1937]

EX-SLAVE STORY BOB JONES

An interview with Bob Jones, 86 years of age, County Home, Raleigh, North Carolina.

"I wus borned in Warren County on de plantation 'longin' ter Mister Logie Rudd. My mammy wus
Frankie. My pappy wus named [TR: illegible] [H]arry Jones. Him an' my oldes' brother Burton
'longed ter a Mister Jones dar in de neighborhood.

"Marster Logie an' young Marster Joe wus nice as dey could be, but Mis' Betsy wus crabbed an'
hard ter git along wid. She whupped de servants what done de house work an' she fussed so bad
dat she moughty nigh run all us crazy. Hit wus her what sold my Aunt Sissy Ann an' hit wus
her what whupped my sister Mary so bad. Dar warn't but six of us slaves but dem six run a race
ter see who can stay outen her sight.

"Young Marster Joe wus one of de fust ter go ter de war an' I wanted ter go wid him but I bein'
only fourteen dey 'cided ter sen' Sidney instead. I hated dat, 'case I shorely wanted ter go.

"We neber seed Marse Joe but twice atter he left, de time when his daddy wus buried an' when
dey brung his body home frum de war.

"One day about seben or eight Yankees comed 'roun' our place lookin' fer Reb. scouts, dey said,
but dey ain't fin' none so dey goes on 'bout dere business. De nex' day a few of our soldiers
brings Marse Joe's body home frum de war.

"I doan 'member whar he wus killed but he had been dead so long dat he had turned dark, an'
Sambo, a little nigger, sez ter me, 'I thought, Bob, dat I'ud turn white when I went ter heaben
but hit 'pears ter me lak de white folkses am gwine ter turn black.'

"We buried young Marse Joe under de trees in de family buryin' groun' an' we niggers sung Swing
Low Sweet Chariot an' Nearer My God to Thee an' some others. De ole missus wus right nice ter
ever'body dat day an' she let de young missus take charge of all de business frum dat time.

"We stayed on de Rudd plantation fer two years atter de war, den we moves ter Method whar I
met Edna Crowder. We courted fer seberal months an' at las' I jist puts my arm 'roun' her waist
an' I axes her ter have me. She ain't got no mammy ter ax so she kisses me an' tells me dat
she will.

"Durin' de course of our married life we had five chilluns but only one of dem lived ter be
named, dat wus Hyacinth, an' he died 'fore he was a month old.

"Edna died too, six years ago, an' lef' me ter de mercies of de worl'. All my brudders an'
sisters dead, my parents dead, my chilluns dead, an' my wife dead, but I has got a niece.

"Till lately I been livin' at de Wake County Home, but my niece what lives on Person Street
says dat iffen I can git de pension dat she can afford ter let me stay ter her house. I hope
I does, 'case I doan want ter go back ter de County Home."

EH

N.C. District:    No. 2 Worker:           T. Pat Matthews No. Words:        333 Subject:  
CLARA JONES Story teller:     Clara Jones Editor:           Daisy Bailey Waitt

CLARA JONES 408 Cannon Street

