In his room Dan sat down by the window, thinking of the morrow and what the church called his
work, of the pastoral visits, the committee meetings, the Ladies' Aid. At last he stood up
and stretched his great body to its full height with a sigh. Then drawing his wages from his
pocket he placed the money on the study table and stood for a long time contemplating the pieces
of silver as if they could answer his thoughts. Again he went to the window and looked down
at Denny's garden that throughout the summer had yielded its strength to the touch of the crippled
boy's hand. Then from the other window he gazed at the cast-iron monument on the corner--gazed
until the grim figure seemed to threaten him with its uplifted arm.

Slowly he turned once more to the coins on the table. Gathering them, one by one, he placed
them carefully in an envelope. Then, seating himself, he wrote on the little package, "The
laborer is worthy of his hire."

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE WINTER PASSES

"And, as the weeks passed, it came to be noticed that there was often in the man's eyes, and
in his voice, a great sadness--the sadness of one who toils at a hopeless task; of one who
suffers for crimes of which he is innocent; of one who fights for a well-loved cause with the
certainty of defeat."

The harvest time passed, the winter came and was gone again, and another springtime was at
hand, with its new life stirring in blade and twig and branch, and its mystical call to the
hearts of men.

Memorial Church was looking forward to the great convention of the denomination that was to
be held in a distant city.

All through the months following Dan's sermon on "The Fellowship of Service," the new note
continued dominant in his preaching, and indeed in all his work. Even his manner in the pulpit
changed. All those little formalities and mannerisms--tricks of the trade--disappeared, while
the distinguishing garb of the clergyman was discarded for clothing such as is worn by the
man in the pew.

It was impossible that the story of those three days in John Gardner's harvest field should
not get out. Memorial Church was crowded at every service by those whose hearts responded,
even while they failed to grasp the full significance of the preaching and life of this manly
fellow, who, in spite of his profession, was so much a man among men.

But the attitude of the church fathers and of the ruling class was still one of doubt and suspicion,
however much they could not ignore the manifest success of their minister. In spite of their
misgivings their hearts swelled with pride and satisfaction as, with his growing popularity
they saw their church forging far to the front. And, try as they might, they could fix upon
nothing unchristian in his teaching. They could not point to a single sentence in any one of
his sermons that did not unmistakably harmonize with the teaching and spirit of Jesus.

It was not so much what Dan preached that worried these pillars of the church; but it was what
he did not preach, that made them uneasy. They missed the familiar pious sayings and platitudes,
the time-worn sermon-subjects that had been handled by every preacher they had ever sat under.
The old path--beaten so hard and plain by the many "bearers of good tidings," the safe, sure
ground of denominational doctrine and theological speculation, the familiar, long-tried type
of prayer, even, were all quietly, but persistently ignored by this calm-eyed, broad-shouldered,
stalwart minister, who was often so much in earnest in his preaching that he forgot to talk
like a preacher.

Unquestionably, decided the fathers, this young giant was "unsafe"; and--wagging their heads
wisely--they predicted dire disasters, under their breath; while openly and abroad they boasted
of the size of their audiences and their minister's power.

Nor did these keepers of the faith fail to make Dan feel their dissatisfaction. By hints innumerable,
by carefully withholding words of encouragement, by studied coldness, they made him understand
that they were not pleased. Every plan for practical Christian work that Dan suggested (and
he suggested many that winter) they coolly refused to endorse, while requesting that he give
more attention to the long-established activities.

Without protest or bitterness Dan quietly gave up his plans, and, except in the matter of his
sermons, yielded to their demands. Never was there a word of harshness or criticism of church
or people in his talks; only firm, but gentle insistence upon the great living principles of
Christ's teaching. And the people, in his presence, knew often that feeling the Doctor was
conscious of--that this man was, in some way, that which they might have been. Some of his
hearers this feeling saddened with regret; others it inspired with hope and filled them with
a determination to realize that best part of themselves; to still others it was a rebuke, the
more stinging because so unconsciously given, and they were filled with anger and envy.

Meanwhile the attitude of the people toward Hope Farwell and the girl whom she had befriended,
remained unaltered. But now Deborah and Denny as well came to share in their displeasure. Dan
made no change in his relation to the nurse and her friends in the little cottage on the other
side of the garden. In spite of constant hints, insinuations and reflections on the part of
his church masters, he calmly, deliberately threw down the gauntlet before the whole scandal-loving
community. And the community respected and admired him--for this is the way with the herd--even
while it abated not one whit its determination to ruin him the instant chance afforded the
opportunity.

So the spirit that lives in Corinth--the Ally, waited. The power that had put the shadow of
pain over the life of Grace Conner, waited for Hope and Dan, until the minister himself should
furnish the motive that should call it into action. Dan felt it--felt his enemy stirring quietly
in the dark, watching, waiting.

Because of the very fine sense of Dan's nature the situation caused him the keenest suffering.
It was all so different from the life to which he had looked forward with such feelings of
joy; it was all so unjust. Many were the evenings that winter when the minister flew to Dr.
Harry and his ministry of music. And in those hours the friendship between the two men grew
into something fine and lasting, a friendship that was to endure always. Many times, too, Dan
fled across the country to the farm of John Gardner, there to spend the day in the hardest
toil, finding in the ministry of labor, something that met his need. But more than these was
the friendship of Hope Farwell and the influence of her life and ministry.

It was inevitable that the very attitude of the community should force these two friends into
closer companionship and sympathy. The people, in judging them so harshly for the course each
had chosen--because to them it was right and the only course possible to their religious ideals--drove
them to a fuller dependence upon each other.

Dan, because of his own character and his conception of Christ, understood, as perhaps no one
else in the community could possibly have done, just why the nurse clung to Grace Conner and
the work she had undertaken; while he felt that she grasped, as no one else, the peculiarly
trying position in which he so unexpectedly found himself placed in his ministry. And Hope
Farwell, feeling that Dan alone understood her, realized as clearly that the minister had come
to depend upon her as the one friend in Corinth who appreciated his true situation. Thus, while
she gave him strength for his fight, she drew strength for her own from him.

Since that day when he had told her of the talk of the people that matter had not been mentioned
between them, though it was impossible that they should not know the attitude of the community
toward them both. That subtle, un-get-at-able power--the Ally, that is so irresistible, so
certain in its work, depending for results upon words with double meanings, suggestive nods,
tricks of expression, sly winks and meaning smiles--while giving its victims no opportunity
for defense, never leaves them in doubt as to the object of its attack.

The situation was never put into words by these two, but they knew, and each knew the other
knew. And their respect, confidence and regard for each other grew steadily, as it must with
all good comrades under fire. In those weeks each learned to know and depend upon the other,
though neither realized to what extent. So it came to be that it was not Grace Conner alone,
that kept Miss Farwell in Corinth, but the feeling that Dan Matthews, also, depended upon her--the
feeling that she could not desert her comrade in the fight, or--as they had both come to feel--their
fight.

Hope Farwell was not a schoolgirl. She was a strong full-blooded, perfectly developed, workwoman,
matured in body and mind. She realized what the continued friendship of this man might mean
to her--realized it fully and was glad. Dimly, too, she saw how this that was growing in her
heart might bring great pain and suffering--life-long suffering, perhaps. For--save this--their
present, common fight, the life of the nurse and the life of the churchman held nothing in
common. His deepest convictions had led him into a ministry that was, to her, the sheerest folly.

Hope Farwell's profession had trained her to almost perfect self-control. There was no danger
that she would let herself go. Her strong, passionate heart would never be given its freedom
by her, to the wrecking of the life upon which it fixed its affections. She would suffer the
more deeply for that very reason. There is no pain so poignant as that which is borne in secret.
But still--still she was glad! Such a strange thing is a woman's heart!

And Dan! Dan was not given to self-analysis; few really strong men are. He felt: he did not
reason. Neither did he look ahead to see whither he was bound. Such a strange thing is the
heart of a man!

CHAPTER XXVII.

DEBORAH'S TROUBLE

"'Oh, I don't know what he'd do, but I know he'd do something. He's that kind of a man.'"

When the first days of the spring bass-fishing came, the Doctor coaxed Dan away for a three
days trip to the river, beyond Gordon's Mills, where the roaring trout-brook enters the larger
stream.

It was well on toward noon the morning that Dan and the Doctor left, that Miss Farwell found
Deborah in tears, with Denny trying vainly to comfort her.

"Come, come, mother, don't be takin' on so. It'll be all right somehow," Denny was saying as
the nurse paused on the threshold of the little kitchen, and the crippled lad's voice was broken,
though he strove so bravely to make it strong.

The widow in her low chair, her face buried in her apron, swayed back and forth in an agony
of grief, her strong form shaking with sobs. Denny looked at the young woman appealingly as--with
his one good hand on his mother's shoulder--he said again, "Come, mother, look up; it's Miss
Hope that's come to see you. Don't, don't mother dear. We'll make it all right--sure we will
though; we've got to!"

Miss Farwell went to Denny's side and together they managed, after a little, to calm the good
woman.

"It's a shame it is for me to be a-goin' on so, Miss Hope, but I--but I--" She nearly broke
down again.

"Won't you tell me the trouble, Mrs. Mulhall?" urged the nurse. "Perhaps I can help you."

"Indade, dear heart, don't I know you've trouble enough of your own, without your loadin' up
with Denny's an' mine beside? Ain't I seen how you been put to it the past months to make both
ends meet for you an' Gracie, poor child; an' you all the time fightin' to look cheerful an'
bright, so as to keep her heartened up? Many's the time, Miss Hope, I've seen the look on your
own sweet face, when you thought nobody'd be noticin', an' every night Denny an' me's prayed
the blessed Virgin to soften the hearts of the people in this danged town. Oh, I know! I know!
But it does look like God had clean forgotten us altogether. I can't help believin' it would
be different somehow if only we could go to mass somewhere like decent Christians ought."

"But you and Denny have helped me more than I can ever tell you, dear friend, and now you must
let me help you, don't you see?"

"It's glad enough I'd be to let you help, an' quick enough, too, if it was anything that you
could fix. But nothin' but money'll do it, an' I can see by them old shoes you're a-wearin',
an' you goin' with that old last year's coat all winter, that you--that you ain't earned but
just enough to keep you an' Gracie alive."

"That's all true enough, Mrs. Mulhall," returned the nurse, cheerfully, "but I am sure it will
help you just to tell me about the trouble." Then, with a little more urging, the nurse drew
from them the whole pitiful story.

At the time of Jack Mulhall's death, Judge Strong; had held a mortgage on the little home for
a small amount. By careful planning the widow and her son had managed to pay the interest promptly,
and the Judge, though he coveted the place, had not dared to push the payment of the mortgage
too soon after the marshal's death because of public sentiment. But now, sufficient time having
elapsed for the public to forget their officer, who had been killed on duty, and Deborah, through
receiving Grace Conner and Miss Harwell into her home, being included to some extent in the
damaging comments of the righteous community, the crafty Judge saw his opportunity. He knew
that, while the people would not themselves go to the length of putting Deborah and her crippled
boy out of their little home, he had nothing to fear from the sentiment of the community should
he do so under the guise of legitimate business.

The attitude of the people had kept Deborah from earning as much as usual and, for the first
time, they had been unable to pay the interest. Indeed it was only by the most rigid economy
that they would be able to make their bare living until Denny's garden should again begin to
bring them in something.

Their failure to pay the interest gave the Judge added reason for pushing the payment of the
debt. Everything had been done in regular legal form. Deborah and Denny must go the next day.
The widow had exhausted every resource; promises and pleadings were useless, and it was only
at the last hour that she had given up.

"But have you no relatives, Mrs. Mulhall, who could help you? No friends? Perhaps Dr. Oldham--"

Deborah shook her head. "There's only me an' Brother Mike in the family," she said. "Mike's
a brick-layer an' would give the coat off his back for me, but he's movin' about so over the
country, bein' single, you see, that I can't get a letter to him. I did write to him where
I heard from him last, but me letter come back. He don't write often, you see, thinkin' Denny
an' me is all right. I ain't seen him since he was here to help put poor Jack away."

For a few minutes the silence in the little room was broken only by poor Deborah's sobs, and
by Denny's voice, as he tried to comfort his mother.

Suddenly the nurse sprang to her feet. "There is some one," she cried. "I knew there must be,
of course. Why didn't we think of him before?"

Deborah raised her head, a look of doubtful hope on her tear-wet face.

"Mr. Matthews," explained the young woman.

