Dramatics and Pageantry.--In the last few years amateur dramatics have become increasingly
popular in rural communities. The "little country theater" idea has caught the attention of
rural people, and seems destined in one form or another to become a rural institution. Amateur
dramatics are one of the most enjoyable and wholesome forms of recreation. The actors not only
have a deal of fun as well as hard work, but real acting involves putting one's self into the
part and gaining an understanding of various types of people and social situations which is
a most liberal education. The audience, on the other hand, takes a particular interest in the
acting of its children, friends, and relatives, and it enters into the spirit of the play much
more fully than when seeing professional actors. The amateur dramatic club tends to become
a community organization in which the people have a real pride and for which they develop a
loyalty which affords it a peculiar opportunity and responsibility for portraying various problems
and phases of life, giving not only enjoyment but a finer and deeper appreciation of human
relationships.

For special occasions the historical pageant is not only a most delightful entertainment but
is one of the best means of arousing community pride and spirit. The pageant grips both actors
and audience with a common loyalty to their forefathers. Such an historical picture of the
development of a community brings to its people an appreciation of their common heritage and
they come to a new realization of their present comforts and their responsibility for the community's
future. All sorts and conditions of people will work together in a pageant and enjoy the association.
Any rural community which really makes up its mind to do so can produce an historical pageant
of its own, which will give new meaning and inspiration to the common life.[61]

Play in the School.--The school is commencing to realize the importance of play as a phase
of education, but in many cases the one-room country school has too few children of the same
age to make it possible for them to play together with much satisfaction. School consolidation
is essential for better play. The grounds of most one-room schools are ill-adapted to play
and it is not always practicable to have sufficient land attached to them for a suitable playground.
It has been assumed that children know how to play, but such is by no means always the case.
They have the desire to play, but if they have not had opportunity to play with others, the
forms of their play may be very limited. Herein is the opportunity for supervision by the teacher,
who may teach them new plays and games, may uphold the code of play, and may see that all have
opportunity to participate. Obviously the teachers themselves need training for this which
they have not had in the past. New York State has provided that any school district or combination
of several school districts may employ a supervisor of physical training, towards whose salary
the state will contribute half up to $600 per annum, who will assist the teachers in developing
physical training and play in their schools. Similar plans are being adopted in other states.
Maryland has a state-wide athletic league organized by counties. The children of each school
are given physical tests, and recognition by buttons and medals is given for the attainment
of definite standards of physical development and prowess, graduated according to age and sex.
Athletic meets are held by the schools of each county, and the winners then compete in a state-wide
meet.[62]

In many parts of the country the schools of a community, township, or county are now holding
play days or play festivals, with which is usually a picnic, at which children and parents
from the whole countryside get together for a day of real recreation, and which have a large
influence in winning the support of their patrons for the play activities fostered by the schools.[63]

Boys' and Girls' Organizations.--Probably a larger impetus to the best types of play for country
boys and girls has been given by such organizations as the Young Men's Christian Association,
the Young Women's Christian Association, the Boy Scouts, the Girl Scouts, the Camp Fire Girls,
and the Boys' and Girls' Clubs fostered by the extension departments of the state agricultural
colleges and the U. S. Department of Agriculture, than by any other agencies. Each of these
organizations has a program of children's activities involving both recreation and education,
as well as a definite effort for character building. They are invaluable allies of the home,
the school, and the church, for they are the boys' and girls' own organizations and meet their
desire for group activities. Just which one or how many of them are needed in any one community
is a local problem, and it is impracticable to here attempt any evaluation of their particular
advantages. Suffice it to say that every rural community which can find suitable leadership
should have such an organization of boys or girls, and will find the assistance of the state
and national headquarters of these movements of the greatest help in the development of a local
program of play and recreation.[64]

The Church and Play.--We have already noted (page 133) a changing attitude on the part of the
rural church toward play and recreation.[65] In the past it has too often been simply a negative
condemnation of the so-called "worldly amusements," with no effort to understand the normal
cravings of human nature which they satisfy or to furnish any satisfactory substitute for them.
It is true that socials of the older classes in the Sunday school and of the young people's
societies have done much for the sociable life of the country, but very often they have failed
to interest those who would be most benefited by them. Recently, however, church leaders are
actively encouraging rural churches to develop such programs of play and recreation as may
be necessary to meet the needs of their communities. The Sunday schools are organizing baseball
teams and baseball leagues, and are promoting "through-the-week" activities of organized classes.
A majority of the troops of Boy Scouts are affiliated with churches, and scouting is becoming
a recognized means for the direction of the church's recreational work for boys.

Just how far the rural church should go in affording facilities for play and recreation, is
a local problem and it is difficult to generalize as to the duty of the church in this field.
If there is but one church in the community, or there is a community church, and other agencies
are lacking, it may be highly desirable for the church which has suitable rooms to equip one
as a play room, or to establish a play ground for the children, or to organize a dramatic club.
But where there is more than one church in a community, it is obviously difficult to organize
recreational work on sectarian lines. In some instances the churches are pooling their interests
in the support of a common recreational program. Some of those who most keenly feel the responsibility
for the leadership of the church in this field, even go so far as to claim that on account
of the moral values involved in the play of its people, play and recreation should be chiefly
directed by and centered in the church. There is no question but that the church which does
not give attention to this aspect of life and does not have some recreational and social features
among its activities will fail to meet the needs of its people, but whether the church can
compete with the school, the community building, and independent social organizations, or whether
it should seek to do so, is hardly a debatable question. The play and recreational life of
most rural communities inevitably crosses church lines, and it is well for the community that
it does. People may differ on religion and yet enjoy playing together. So the church may lead
and promote better means for play and recreation, but whenever it attempts domination or control
it will prejudice its position and will be unable to accomplish its objective.

Community Buildings.--The larger appreciation of the importance of play and recreation in rural
life has brought attention to the lack of physical equipment. Every rural community needs a
playground large enough to include a good baseball diamond and a basketball court, and a building
where indoor sports, gymnasium work and basketball games can be held.

On account of the lack of such facilities many cities have bought playgrounds upon which have
been erected special buildings containing gymnasiums, game and club rooms, and often a branch
library, which have become known as "social centers." The "social center idea" has spread to
the country, for which various forms of social centers have been advocated. Any building which
is available for such purposes to the whole community--the school, church, or grange hall--may
become a social center if suitable arrangements are made for its operation as such. The U.
S. Bureau of Education has urged that every school shall be made a social center, and as far
as this is possible, it is most desirable. What can be accomplished through the country school
is well shown in the work of Mrs. Marie Turner Harvey in the Porter School at Kirksville, Missouri.[66]
But the district school will, at best, be only the social center of a neighborhood, and in
many cases its district is too small for successful play or social life. Furthermore, the average
one-room school is ill-adapted in architecture or equipment for social purposes. The consolidated
school or village high school may well be made a social center as far as it is possible for
it to so function and new schools should be, and are being, constructed with this in view.
The school building and the school playground are naturally the best places for centering the
play activities of the children, especially where physical training or play supervisors are
employed by the schools. It is a question, however, whether those over school age will use
the school for social purposes as freely as some other building, unless the general policy
and management of the use of the building for community purposes is in the hands of a community
organization formed for that purpose.

Where there is but one church in a community, which is practically a community church, the
church building or church house may be utilized as a social center, and the erection of community
buildings by such churches is now being advocated. In some cases such a community building
attached to a church may be a means of meeting the need; but in other communities affiliation
with the church may not be advantageous. Where there is more than one church, the churches
may join in the operation of a community building, but in that case all of the churches must
be included or it will not have the support of the whole community--it will not be a real community
building.

Many grange buildings are now used but once in a fortnight or so for grange meetings, and remain
idle the rest of the time. May it not be possible to devise some equitable and satisfactory
arrangement whereby they may be made available for the constant use of all the people as community
buildings and still reserve them to the grange for its use at such times as it desires? The
average rural community cannot afford to tie up so much capital in buildings which are so infrequently
used.

In any event, the auspices under which a community building is to be operated and the possibility
of securing the united support of the whole community for it are essential if it is to be permanently
successful as a "community home."

Because of the limitations of school, church, and grange hall, many communities are now planning
to erect "community buildings"[67] in which all the "leisure-time activities" of the whole
community may be centered. The community building will usually include an auditorium with stage
for entertainments and dramatics, which is often used for a gymnasium or basketball, a kitchen
and dining room, a game room, possibly a library room, and such other features as may be practicable.
In older communities there are often more buildings than are being used. Unused churches may
well be converted to community buildings with relatively small expense. The advent of prohibition
and good roads has driven many village hotels out of business and their buildings are in some
cases suitable for conversion into community buildings and may be purchased at much below cost.
Some sort of organization must be the owner of a community building and assure its support,
and it would seem that if the building is to be truly a community affair it should be operated
by the community as such. In some states legislation has been passed permitting the township,
or any voluntary tax district, to erect and operate a community building, and many such buildings
are in successful operation. In other cases, it will be desirable to form some sort of community
organization, which is open to all members of the community and which represents all of the
organizations and interests which may use the building, for its erection and control.

Thus rural play and recreation which formerly centered in the neighborhood, is now being organized
on a community basis, and the increased interest in adequate facilities for play and recreation
is, in last analysis, an effort of the rural community to defend its integrity against the
lure of its people by the city. Just as in their economic life and in their educational system
rural people are compelled to act together as a community if they are to compete with the advancing
standards of the city, so play and recreation is also becoming a concern of the whole community.

FOOTNOTES:

[58] See his "The Meaning of Infancy."

[59] "The Play of Man." Translated by Elizabeth L. Baldwin. New York, 1901.

[60] "Play in Education."

[61] See Abigail F. Halsey, The Historical Pageant in the Rural Community. N. Y. State College
of Agriculture, Cornell Extension Bulletin, 54. June, 1922.

[62] See Official Handbook of the Public Athletic League, Baltimore, Md. Edited by William
Burdick, M.D. Spalding Athletic Library, New York, American Sports Publishing Co.

[63] See Galpin and Weisman, "Play Days in Rural Schools," Circular 118, Exten. Div. of the
College of Agr., Univ. of Wisconsin, Madison.

[64] National headquarters are as follows: Y. M. C. A., County Work, 347 Madison Ave., New
York; Y. W. C. A., Country Dept., 600 Lexington Ave., New York; Boy Scouts of America, Fifth
Ave. Bldg., New York; Girl Scouts, Inc., 189 Lexington Ave., New York; The Camp Fire Girls
of America, 128 E. 28th St., New York; Boys' and Girls' Club Work (in agriculture and home
economics), States Relations Service, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., or the
extension department of any state agricultural college.

[65] The best discussion of this topic is Henry A. Atkinson's "The Church and the Peoples Play."
Boston, Pilgrim Press, 1915.

[66] See Evelyn Dewey, "New Schools for Old." New York.

[67] See Farmers' Bulletins 825, 1173 and 1192, U. S. Department of Agriculture, by W. C. Nason,
on Rural Community Buildings.

CHAPTER XIV

ORGANIZATIONS OF THE RURAL COMMUNITY

Throughout most of the United States the farmer's sense of belonging to a community is rather
vague. The villager has a definite idea of the village because it has a boundary, he can see
it, and in many cases it is incorporated; but in most cases, outside of New England at least,
the villager and the farmer have not thought of themselves as belonging to the same community.
Farmers do, however, belong to many organizations which meet in the village and more and more
farmer and villager mingle in the associations devoted to various special interests. The farmer's
loyalty has, therefore, been primarily to organizations rather than to the community as such,
but as these different organizations have multiplied he has become increasingly aware that
most of them, each in its own field, are devoted to the interests of the common good. Through
the common interests of organizations in the life of all the people is arising a new conception
of the community. As Professor E. C. Lindeman has well pointed out,[68] at the present time
the community is more an association of groups than of individuals, and it is these groups
and organizations which largely control community action. If we are to understand the relation
of the farmer to his community, we can do so only by knowing the organizations and groups to
which he belongs, for it is in them and through them that his loyalty to the community arises.

The Grange.--By all odds the strongest local organization of farmers throughout the northern
and western states is the Grange, which is the local unit of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry.
For half a century, from the time of its organization in 1868 until 1920, it had a larger influence
upon national legislation than any other organization of farmers, and it was largely through
its efforts that many of the more important acts for the benefit of agriculture were passed
by Congress.[69] The growth in membership and number of local granges in recent years testifies
that the grange meets a real need in farm life. Its maximum membership was in 1875 when 858,050
members were paying dues to the National Grange. From then it declined to 106,782 members in
1889, but in the next thirty years it grew to approximately 700,000 members in 1919. State
Granges are now organized in thirty-three states and there are approximately 8,000 local or
subordinate granges. In the earlier years of its history there were many granges in the South,
but since the decline in the '80's there have been practically no granges south of Virginia
and Missouri.

Although the Grange is a secret order or fraternity, with a ritual similar to other fraternal
orders, its membership is open to any one of good character, and the local granges frequently
hold "open" meetings to which all the people of the community are invited. The strength of
the Grange as a community organization is largely due to two factors: first, its broad program,
and second, that it is a family organization. Both men and women are admitted to membership
and in several states junior granges for the older children are numerous. Although the grange
actively supports state and national legislation for the benefit of agriculture, it is strictly
non-partisan in politics and is non-sectarian with regard to religion. In the earlier years
it undertook to operate numerous coöperative enterprises, including many coöperative stores,
and it was the failure of many of these which caused its sudden decline of membership in the
late '70's. In recent years, although it has vigorously sponsored coöperation, it has favored
independent coöperative organizations, having no organic connection with the grange, with the
exception of grange insurance companies whose advantages are usually limited to grange members.

Possibly the greatest service of the Grange is its educational and social work. The "lecturer's
hour" is a feature of every meeting, and in this hour a program planned by the lecturer is
given by members of the grange, or outside speakers are invited to address it on topics of
interest. These programs include both discussion of educational topics having to do with all
phases of agriculture, home life, and civic affairs, but also music, recitations and other
entertaining features. Special social evenings and suppers are held at frequent intervals and
the young people often enjoy an informal dance after the regular grange meeting. The local
grange, more than any other organization, provides a forum for the discussion of the problems
of agriculture and country life, and is thus a powerful agency for the creation of public opinion
on any matters of community concern. The management of its business and the participation in
the lecturer's programs furnish the best opportunity for the development of leadership and
for training in public speaking, so that the local Grange has been the means of discovering
and training much of our best rural leadership.

For many years the attention of the Grange seemed to be directed chiefly toward the support
of needed national legislation, but recently grange leaders have perceived that, like all such
organizations, its permanent strength and influence depend more largely on the degree to which
the local grange is a vital force in the life of its members and of its community. In a recent
article on "The Future of the Grange," S. J. Lowell, Master of the National Grange, ably voices
this point of view:

      "The farm people of America are better informed on all the
      great questions of the day; are pursuing better agricultural
      methods; are demanding better roads, better schools, better
      churches; are doing more effective teamwork for
      forward-looking projects; and in consequence are more
      valuable men and women and citizens because of the Grange
      influence of the past and its presence in their life to-day.
      Remove the Grange from America and there would be taken out
      of our progress of a half century one of the largest
      contributing factors.

      "It will be setting up a declaration contrary to the belief
      of some that exerting legislative influence, important as it
      is, is not the most valuable function of the Grange; that
      its coöperative activities, however they may have
      flourished, will not loom largest in the grange program of
      the future; that not even its efforts for state and national
      reform will be recorded as its greatest service to its day
      and generation. Rather we must estimate the Grange value of
      the future by its quiet, steady, unfaltering efforts,
      continued year after year, in thousands of local
      communities--many of them far removed from the busy
      activities of men--to bring the rural people together, to
      teach them the fundamentals of coöperation, of efficiency,
      of teamwork, of practical educational progress, and of the
      value of a forward-looking rural program, into whose
      accomplishments all the people of a locality may
      conscientiously enter.... This view of Grange service to
      rural America is apparent in the extent to which the
      community-betterment program has been taken up by
      subordinate granges in nearly every state. Though a secret
      organization--a fraternity in fact as well as in name--the
      Grange is more and more making of itself an overflowing
      institution, seeking to render actual benefits to its
      immediate home locality. Hundreds of live Granges this year
      are carrying out some form of community improvement along a
      great variety of directions."[70]

He then goes on to give a brief glimpse of the variety of these community enterprises. In Massachusetts
the State Grange has for several years had a committee which awards annual prizes for the best
community improvement work done by the local granges, and this has stimulated a lively interest
in community activities.

Although the Grange is primarily a farmers' organization, yet where the local grange meets
in the village, and particularly in the older states, a considerable number of the members
are village people, so that the Grange represents the life of the whole community. On the other
hand, in many neighborhoods which are at some distance from a village center, the Grange hall
may be located in the open country, its membership is composed wholly of farmers, and it is
solely a class organization. No studies are available to show the proportion of Granges which
meet in villages or in the open country and the effect which this has upon the relation of
the Grange to the community, but it may be safely asserted that, as is the case with the church
and the school, the Grange tends to meet in village centers as a matter of convenience to the
largest number of its members, and that, as indicated by Mr. Lowell, it is coming to recognize
its responsibility for the general improvement of the community as a whole.

Other Farmers' Organizations.--Throughout the South and in Kansas and Nebraska the Farmers'
Educational and Coöperative Union is the leading farmers' organization, but it is chiefly devoted
to coöperative business enterprises and does but little for the education or social life of
its members, who are usually all men. The same may be said of the Society of Equity, which
is strongest in Wisconsin, Kentucky, and South Dakota. In Michigan, although the Grange is
strong, the Gleaners have a considerable membership.

In many states, particularly where the grange is not well established, farmers' clubs have
been organized. In some cases local conditions make clubs feasible where it would be difficult
to enlist a large enough part of the community to make a grange equally successful. In some
cases such clubs are open to farmers only; in others they include the whole family; while in
recent years many farm women's clubs have been organized. Whether such clubs should be for
the whole family, or for men or women only, is largely a local question depending upon the
social usages and homogeneity of the population. In Wisconsin and Minnesota family clubs have
been most successful. It is doubtful whether this would be equally true in the South. In the
South such local clubs have been the local units of the extension work in agriculture and home
economics. Where for any reason it is not possible to include the whole community in a club,
several clubs may be organized, each including a congenial membership, as is now the case with
women's clubs in cities, and these may then be federated for community purposes.

Lodges.--In most rural villages will be found one or more lodges of fraternal orders, such
as the Masons, Odd Fellows, Knights of Pythias, Maccabees, etc., with the corresponding orders
of women's auxiliaries. The place and influence of lodges in the life of the rural community
have been strangely neglected by students of country life, and we have no means of evaluating
their place in the rural community. Not infrequently the regular meetings and special parties
and banquets held by these orders form a large part of the social life of the village. In other
cases the meetings are but poorly attended and the lodge is maintained chiefly for its insurance
benefits. In some of the larger villages and towns the larger and more prosperous lodges have
game rooms and reading rooms attached to their halls, so that they serve as club rooms for
their membership. Usually the membership is more largely composed of village people, but a
considerable number of farmers maintain their membership, even though they do not attend regularly,
and in exceptional cases the membership is largely composed of farm people. It is obvious that
the lodge as a secret order is devoted to the interests of its own membership and usually it
has no definite program of work for the benefit of the whole community. Yet it must be recognized
that the assistance rendered by the lodge to its members in sickness and to their families
when in distress of any kind, is a considerable asset to the welfare of the community and is
a powerful influence in promoting that spirit of brotherhood upon which all community life
depends. Usually the lodges actively support and participate in any community activities in
which they may appropriately take part, such as Memorial Day or Fourth of July celebrations,
community Christmas trees and other festival occasions. The churches, or at least the ministers,
sometimes feel that the social life of the lodges absorbs so much of the time and interest
of their members as to prevent their activity in church work, which attitude has often obtained
between the church and Grange, but it is a question whether this is not often due to the failure
of the church to provide such activities as will command the loyalty of the people, and, on
the other hand, not infrequently the leaders in lodge work are also most active in the churches.
To the extent that the lodges seem self-centered and make no direct contribution to community
improvement, this is doubtless due to the lack of any means whereby their support may be enlisted
in a program of community betterment. The place of the lodge in the community is much like
that of a fraternity in a college or university; its primary obligation is to its own membership,
but when enlisted in any activity for the common welfare it furnishes one of the best means
for developing the community spirit of its members, and its participation is a means of strengthening
its own organization.

The Village Band.--A good village band is one of the most effective agencies for promoting
community spirit and sociability. The village merchants have also found that it is an economic
asset, and in many country towns they contribute liberally for its support. A band concert
every Saturday night, or twice a week, never fails to bring a crowd of people to town and it
is a common sight to see the streets lined with automobiles of farm people who have come in
to enjoy the concert and incidentally to do a little shopping and chat with each other and
their village friends. Although it may be called by the name of the village, it is usually
a community band, for farm boys who can play an instrument are always welcome and frequently
form a considerable part of the membership. The community comes to have a real pride in even
a moderately good band, and on holiday celebrations and other festival occasions it is an invaluable
asset to community spirit. A crowd will always follow a band, for it exercises a sort of group
leadership for which there seems to be no substitute.

In one small town in central New York the high school operates a moving picture show every
Saturday evening, which is preceded by a band concert and part of the profits of the show goes
to the support of the band. Thus the community finances and controls its own entertainment.
Another small village in western New York had a fairly good band which had been playing in
neighboring villages as the only means of securing an income, and was thus drawing trade of
farmers from its own village to those where it played. The first enterprise of the community
council which was formed there was to build a band stand and to see that the band was financed
so that it played every Saturday night in the home town. In another case a community council
was formed for the primary purpose of bringing the support of the whole community to a fine
band which had struggled along for several years with little local appreciation.

Community orchestras are of equal value for indoor entertainments and give opportunity for
the talent of the young women as well as the men. The community chorus or choral club has often
taken the place of the old-fashioned singing school. If a good director can be secured he will
always discover more vocal ability than has been suspected, and the people of many a rural
community have been surprised at the musical works they have been able to produce under competent
leadership.

The amount of music in a community and the public interest in its musical entertainments are
among the most significant indices of its general culture and progressiveness. Where there
is music there is life.

The Fire Company.--One of the "most ancient and honorable" of the organizations of the village
is the volunteer fire company. The fire company makes an appeal to the spirit of adventure
and heroism common to all red-blooded young men and furnishes something of Professor William
James' "moral equivalent of war." Its drills, exhibits and competitions develop the finest
type of team work among its members, while its parties, festivals and entertainments for raising
money are always occasions of note in the social calendar of the community. In the older parts
of the country the firemen very frequently have a building with clubrooms on the second floor,
which form a rendezvous for its members. Not infrequently many of the nearby farm boys belong
to the fire company and pay their dues for its support so that they may enjoy its social advantages,
although they may rarely have opportunity to do much actual fire-fighting. In several cases
community houses have been built with one corner of the first floor constructed to house the
fire equipment. In one village I found that the fire company had taken over an old hall, where
it had clubrooms and was holding moving picture entertainments every Saturday evening to finance
the building.

The Women's Christian Temperance Union is by all odds the strongest non-sectarian organization
of women in the rural communities of the United States. In the past it has been chiefly a reform
organization and its persistent agitation was a large factor in the enactment of the Eighteenth
Amendment to the federal constitution making prohibition national. Although prohibition is,
as yet, by no means achieved, and there is still need of upholding and encouraging those charged
with its enforcement, yet the primary purpose of the organization seems to be largely realized.
In the past it has been chiefly a militant organization, although it has taken an active interest
in problems of child welfare, education, recreation, social hygiene, and similar topics affecting
home life. Its public speaking contests, picnics, suppers, and sociables have done much for
the social life of many a rural community. If the fighting spirit of the past can be enlisted
in a well-rounded program for social welfare in every community where there is a Union, this
organization will continue to be a powerful factor in uniting the women in many a rural community.

The Cemetery Association.--Finally, the influence of the Cemetery Association as a community
organization, should not be overlooked. The "Friendship Village Married Ladies' Cemetery Improvement
Sodality," which Miss Gale has made famous in her delightful stories of village life,[71] well
illustrates the influences which have been started by many a cemetery association. Not infrequently
the one thing which evinces some civic pride in an otherwise stagnant community is its well-kept
cemetery. The condition of the cemetery is a good index of community spirit. When people neglect
the resting place of their dead they are not apt to do much for the living. But once arouse
a feeling of shame for such neglect and the effort to clean up and beautify the cemetery has
often brought all elements of the community into a common loyalty as nothing else could do,
and the satisfaction from such an achievement may sufficiently stir community pride as to encourage
other enterprises.

The cemetery itself has a not inconsiderable influence in bringing about the integration of
the rural community. In early days every farm had its own burying lot. Nothing is more pathetic
than the abandoned burying lots--often two or three of them--on many a New England farm. In
many cases rural neighborhoods have had a local cemetery by the country church or district
school. These, too, are increasingly neglected. On the other hand the village cemetery is more
largely used merely because more assurance is felt in its permanent maintenance. It needs no
argument from history or from the customs of other lands, to show that the people who bury
their dead in the same place are bound together by the most sacred ties, and that the cemetery
which serves the whole community is one of its primary bonds.

FOOTNOTES:

[68] "The Community," p. 119. New York, Association Press. 1921.

[69] See T. C. Atkeson, "Semi-centennial History of the Grange." New York. Orange Judd Co.

[70] In "The Country Gentleman." Oct. 8, 1921, p. 17.

[71] Zona Gale, "Friendship Village"; "Friendship Village Love Stories"; "Peace in Friendship
Village." New York. Macmillan Co.

CHAPTER XV

THE COMMUNITY'S DEPENDENT

The neighborliness and hospitality of farmers is proverbial in every land and clime. Throughout
much of the old world where farmers still live in village communities the poverty or distress
of any family is at once apparent and the more fortunate members of the village in one way
or another give such assistance as is possible. The more primitive the people the more binding
is this obligation for mutual aid, and one cannot but feel that our so-called advanced civilization
has failed to develop as keen a sense of responsibility for the unfortunate. In rural America
this is possibly due to the fact that our farms are scattered and the condition of needy families
may not be noticed. The average rural community will usually inform an inquirer that it has
practically no poverty and no need of a social worker. Yet investigation will almost always
show that tucked away in some hollow, back on some hill, or even huddled near the outskirts
of the village are a few unfortunate families, of whose needs the community is unaware. These
families, for one reason or another are "disadvantaged," they do not commonly associate with
others, they may be foreigners, or in some way they are "queer" and are more or less avoided,
or possibly they are merely isolated and so are unknown. From the standpoint of the social
welfare of the community such families, or individuals, have been called the "unadjusted";
they do not mix freely and are not up to the local standards of life. In short, such families
or individuals are abnormal, and are a social liability of the community.

These "disadvantaged" or "unadjusted" people may be roughly grouped into four classes: the
dependent, the defective, the delinquent, and the neglected. In one sense they may all be called
the "community's dependent," for they all require some sort of assistance from the community
if their relationship to it is to be satisfactorily adjusted.

Poverty.--In a narrower sense the "dependent" are the poor; those who are unable to support
themselves and who must be aided by the community if they are to exist. If this condition becomes
chronic they are paupers; but in most cases their dependency is temporary and has been due
to some unusual drain on the family's resources, such as, sickness, fire, crop failure, or
inability to secure employment. There is a very natural aversion on the part of the latter
class against becoming stigmatized as paupers and of having to secure public relief, of "being
on the town"; whereas the habitual dependents have frequently lost all pride in their social
status and are quite willing to continue to receive all the help they can secure. In both cases,
if assistance is to be of permanent value, the problem is not only that of furnishing immediate
relief in the form of food, clothing, or shelter, but of ascertaining the causes of the dependency
and giving such assistance and sympathetic encouragement as will enable the family or individual
to again become self-supporting and regain a normal status in the community. Obviously this
is a delicate task which requires the best knowledge of human nature as well as genuine sympathy
which will inspire confidence and faith, and in so far as possible is likely to be more effective
if it can be done privately. On the other hand, a large proportion of the chronic dependency
also involves mental or physical defectiveness or moral delinquency which cannot be remedied
by the mere giving of alms. Much of the poor relief given by rural communities is practically
wasted because of a failure to ascertain the real cause of poverty or by lack of knowledge
or means for its treatment.

Defectives.--In most cases the care of "defectives" cannot be undertaken by the rural community
itself, because they usually require the care of institutions which can only be supported by
the county or state. Furthermore, a family is usually able to take care of one of its members
who is so afflicted or will assume the burden of sending him to an institution, so that only
in the case of dependent families does the responsibility rest on the community. There is,
however, a duty on the part of the community to see that the afflicted are given necessary
care, so that they may not have to go through life so handicapped that they are unable to be
self-supporting and thus may become wholly dependent.

The physically defective are largely cared for by state and county institutions. We have learned
that the deaf and blind may become largely self-supporting if given the advantages of a specific
type of education, for which the state maintains special schools. County and state hospitals
provide for the care of those afflicted with tuberculosis and a beginning is being made in
the provision of state hospitals for crippled children where they may receive necessary surgical
and orthopedic treatment. Likewise the more helpless mental defectives, the insane, the imbeciles
and idiots, are cared for in state institutions.

One of the most serious menaces to the social health of the rural community is from those mental
defectives who are able to care for themselves but who are mentally incapable of rearing a
normal family and of conforming to the customary standards of morality. These "feeble-minded,"
are far too numerous in rural communities and their proper care and education has been neglected
because they have been commonly regarded as merely "simple minded" or "foolish"; to be pitied,
and the subject of many a jest, but entirely harmless. A large number of the feeble-minded
are so nearly normal that they are considered merely shiftless or stupid. Nearly every rural
community has one or more families, and not infrequently a small slum neighborhood, who are
ne'er-do-wells, more or less delinquent and frequently requiring aid from the town. Thanks
to modern psychology, we now know that many of these adults have the intelligence of only a
seven or nine-year-old child and that they are incapable of further mental development. Furthermore,
carefully conducted studies in the heredity of these families show that feeble-mindedness is
congenital; that where both parents are feeble-minded all the offspring will be so afflicted;
and that when one of the parents is sub-normal that some of the children will be feeble-minded
and that those who appear normal may transmit the defect to their children. Psychological tests
have now been developed so that adults with a mentality of nine or ten years or less may be
definitely diagnosed as mentally deficient.

It must be obvious that an adult with fully developed sexual desires but with the mind of a
child is incapable of conforming his or her behavior to the standards of society and will be
incapable of giving proper parental care to children. So a considerable percentage of our petty
criminals, vagrants, prostitutes, and dependent are found to be feeble-minded. They are unstable,
suggestible, easily victimized.

The farm and the village have a considerable amount of routine work which can be done by these
sub-normal people and they therefore have opportunity to maintain themselves and to multiply
to better advantage than in the city where the competition of life is keener. Although they
are best off in a rural environment, when unrestricted and unsegregated they are a constant
menace to the community and often involve it in considerable expense. As soon as farmers become
aware of what the feeble-minded are costing the community, how they endanger its moral and
physical health, and that when unrestricted they continue to reproduce incapables and thus
perpetuate the burden, they will demand that some practicable and reasonable measures be taken
for their control. The difficulty is that at present in most states there is no method whereby
the feeble-minded can be committed to state institutions or be otherwise segregated unless
they are paupers or unless they go voluntarily, nor is there any means of preventing their
marriage and reproduction. Dairy farmers have learned that it pays to weed out the "boarder"
cows from their herds and that if they breed from a scrub sire they will have scrub stock;
but if the boarder cow was also inclined to become vicious and to corrupt the habits of the
rest of the herd and the farmer knew this trait to be hereditary, he would invariably send
such a cow to the butcher. I believe that as soon as farmers appreciate the biological significance
of feeble-mindedness they will insist upon reasonable legislation for its control.

Delinquency.--The third class of abnormal citizens are the delinquents, both adult and juvenile.
Almost every rural community has a certain number of adults and children who, although not
definitely criminal, are constantly committing various misdemeanors, are vicious, or incorrigible,
and there are occasional rural communities and neighborhoods which are as true slums as are
found in the cities.[72] Drunkenness was formerly the greatest cause of delinquency, and the
tavern and saloon were responsible for the prohibition movement whose staunchest supporters
were rural people. The bootlegger and the illicit still continue the illegal traffic in liquor,
but where prohibition has been in force for some time liquor has ceased to be an important
factor in delinquency.

We have but few definite studies of delinquency in rural communities upon which to base any
generalizations. One of the best of these is a study of the juvenile delinquents in 21 average
rural communities in New York state, made under the auspices of the U. S. Children's Bureau
in 1917.[73] In these 21 communities 185 delinquent children were found, 41 of whom were classed
as "incorrigible," 68 were involved in sex offenses, and 75 had stolen, or were guilty of fraud.
The number of boys guilty of incorrigibility and theft exceeded that of the girls by six to
one, but among the older sex offenders 41 were girls and but 9 were boys. This study is of
particular value in showing that almost every rural community, however prosperous and progressive
it may be, has its problem of delinquency, and in its analysis of the responsibility of the
home, the school, and the church, for wayward children.

The Neglected.--The fourth class which require the care of the community are the neglected.
Although the aged occasionally require neighborly assistance, even though they have means for
their necessities, most of the neglected are infants and children. Orphans and foundlings for
whom homes must be found, children who are over-worked or abused, or who are living with dissolute
parents, all of these must be given proper guardianship and a chance for healthful growth and
education, or they are likely to become delinquent and thus become a permanent liability to
society. It is true that in the country the home is at its best (see chapter II), but it is
also unfortunately true that some of the most shameful and almost unbelievable cases of neglect
and abuse of children are frequently found in out-of-the-way places in rural communities. Where
compulsory school attendance laws are strictly enforced such cases may come to the attention
of school officials, but in many instances no one seems responsible for discovering neglected
children and ensuring their proper care. Most of the cities and larger towns have Societies
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children whose agents investigate rural cases reported to
them and bring them to the attention of the courts when necessary, but there is a need for
some local agency in every rural community which will see that neglect is prevented or stopped.

Agencies for Rural Social Work.--When we examine the means for dealing with these "misfit"
members of the rural community, we find that in most of our states there are few agencies either
public or private, and that as a rule they are poorly adapted to render the service needed.

For the care of the poor there is the township or county poor officer, and the county poor
farm as a last resort. But the poor officer, however upright and well-intentioned he may be,
usually conceives his job as one for doling out sufficient groceries, clothing, and fuel to
keep a family alive, and of keeping the cost to the taxpayer as low as possible. He feels little
responsibility for furnishing sufficient aid to give the family a fair chance to get on its
feet or for advising them or bringing such influences into their lives as will ensure their
rehabilitation. He is charged with a most difficult task for which he has had no experience
or training, which he must handle with the greatest economy and for which he receives little
compensation either in salary or public esteem. Very commonly his election is due to political
strength rather than special personal fitness. The case of the poor is commonly regarded as
a necessary evil to be handled with as little trouble as possible, rather than as an opportunity
to give such help to the unfortunate that further assistance may be unnecessary and that they
may become an asset to the community.

Cases of delinquency involving only misdemeanors or minor offenses are tried before a justice
of the peace or local magistrate. Usually these officials are men with no legal training and
with little understanding of the causes of delinquency or of how delinquents should be treated
in order to give them a fair chance to become normal citizens. The usual attitude is one of
determining the offense and meting out just punishment for it. Furthermore, the local justice
frequently avoids handling a case which may involve him in difficulties with his neighbors,
unless he is forced to do so. Not infrequently juvenile offenders are sent to reformatories
where they come into contact with worse characters and are hardened rather than reformed, whereas
if they had been placed on probation under proper supervision and under satisfactory home conditions
they might have lived decent lives.

In most of our cities juvenile cases are now handled in special juvenile courts, which have
shown the futility of the old methods of legal procedure in the treatment of juvenile offenders.
In this court the judge is assisted by probation officers who are trained as social workers
and who investigate the home conditions and other influences surrounding the child for the
information of the judge, who then handles the case in whatever manner seems best in order
to get at the facts and to bring the child to a real desire to "make good." The case is heard
privately, without the ordinary rules of legal procedure, and the whole attitude of the court
is more like that of a father than of the ordinary judge who inflicts punishment according
to the gravity of the offense. It must be evident that one person handling numerous cases of
this kind will soon gain an experience with them which will enable him to act more intelligently
and with greater justice both to the offender and to the interests of society than can be done
by a local official who may have but one or two such cases to handle during his whole term
of office. In several states legislation has been passed creating juvenile courts in each county,
which have jurisdiction over all juvenile cases and which can deal not only with the children
but also with their parents or guardians. The general adoption of such a system seems to be
the most important step in the intelligent treatment of juvenile delinquents in rural districts.

Very often the first waywardness of a child is in truancy from school, which, if it cannot
be handled by the teacher, is turned over to the local truant officer. In many cases the truant
officer is appointed because of his availability for such work rather than his special competency,
and the enforcement of the truancy law is handled in a most perfunctory manner, whereas an
intelligent investigation of home conditions and an effort to gain the coöperation of the parents
and the confidence and interest of the child are the only means of securing any real reform.
In several cities truancy is in charge of what are known as "visiting teachers," who not only
look after truants but visit the homes of those children who are not doing well in their school
work, in order to determine whether home conditions are responsible and how they may be improved.
Usually the country school teacher is more in touch with the homes of her pupils, but some
of the more progressive rural counties are providing an assistant to the county superintendent
of schools, who acts both in the capacity of truant officer and visiting teacher, assisting
the local teacher in the more difficult cases which require a considerable amount of time to
develop proper relations in the home. To be of most service such a person should not only have
experience in school work but should have had the training of a social worker, so that she
may understand the best means of dealing with the wayward child and with unfavorable home conditions.
It seems probable that more may be done toward the prevention of delinquency through such social
workers connected with the school system than by any other means.

In many states there seems to be no definite system for the supervision of children for whom
the state is responsible. They may be boarded or adopted by families or placed in institutions
by any one of several local officials having jurisdiction, but none of them have the means
of determining whether the children are being properly cared for, nor does the county or state
provide any agency for this purpose. In several states the registration and supervision of
such wards of the state is placed in the hands of a state child welfare board or a state department
of charities or public welfare, but in other states the supervision of their welfare is wholly
dependent upon private philanthropy. Experience has shown that where a trained social worker
is employed to look up the relatives of such children and to assist in finding homes for them
and in visiting the homes and institutions to which they are committed, a considerable saving
in the cost of their maintenance to the county is frequently effected. In order that all of
the care of children may be centralized under one county office which can employ competent
persons for its work, several states have created county boards of child welfare which are
charged with the whole responsibility for the care of dependent and neglected children, which
is then taken entirely out of the hands of local officials. In a few states, county boards
of public welfare have been created which have supervision not only of children but of all
dependents, defectives, and neglected, and in some cases also have charge of the public health
administration. The centralization of such authority in a county board which can employ executives
who have had special training and experience for such work is not only good business, but it
is the only method by which the state can satisfactorily fulfil its obligation to those who
are dependent upon it.

Usually the rural community has few if any private agencies or associations devoted to the
assistance of its dependent. The churches and the lodges assist some of their own members.
Here and there are isolated groups of King's Daughters or similar societies which devote themselves
to the care of the poor and the sick, but they are comparatively rare in the country. The Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children often prosecutes rural cases, but it is usually a
town or city organization and has practically no rural membership. Over the United States as
a whole, the American Red Cross has probably done more to introduce the idea of social work
into rural communities than any one agency. During the war the local chapters of the Red Cross
were authorized to give assistance to soldiers' families in any way possible. This involved
rural as well as town families, and the need of organized social work became apparent in thousands
of rural communities. When peace was declared, the local chapters were authorized to extend
the Civilian Relief work to civilian families in territory where there was no other organization
doing welfare work, which meant practically all of the rural United States, providing the work
was carried on by trained workers on a basis approved by the division headquarters. The family
welfare work of the Red Cross was happily named "Home Service" and has been organized in many
rural counties where its value has been repeatedly demonstrated. The work is directly in charge
of a social worker employed by the county chapter but the local branch in each community is
encouraged to form a Home Service Committee which looks after the local work as far as it is
able, calls in the county worker when needed, and gives her all the assistance possible. Thus
the work is localized and each community has a definite group of workers who feel responsible
for looking after those needing the community's assistance and who are learning how to do this
in an intelligent manner. No other agency organized on a national basis has attempted any systematic
organization of social welfare work in local rural communities.

Social Education of Rural Opinion.--The primary need for the care of the dependent of the rural
community is for a better understanding of their needs by its more intelligent and public-spirited
people. It is a matter of social education. Social work so-called has had a rapid development
in our cities to meet the situation caused by their sudden growth with large numbers of foreigners
having different standards of living and unable to adjust themselves to strange conditions
with congested districts where housing and sanitation is poor and with poverty due to unemployment,
sickness, and with the many factors which result from the complexities of city life. The city
slum first challenged the humanity of the better people and numerous philanthropic organizations
grew up in an effort to give assistance to needy families and children. For the most part this
work has been financed by the wealthy, has been carried on by social workers who have had special
training for such service, and is commonly known as charity. What social work has been done
in rural communities has been introduced by city organizations and has usually been fostered
by organizations of as few of the more progressive people at the county seats and the larger
towns or small cities which have worked out into the rural communities from these centers.
Though the purposes and work of these organizations are excellent, they will never be able
to effectively meet the needs of rural communities until their people appreciate the need for
such work and actively support it.

Much of this sort of work is regarded by rural people as "uplift" and without local interest
and support has little permanent value. The average rural community has little use for charity
in the ordinary sense of the word. If relief is needed within its borders, it will provide,
but it fails to appreciate that more than relief is needed to prevent the recurrence of dependency,
and that punishment will not correct or prevent delinquency. The fact is that at present country
people have not seen the social situation in their own communities and so are not concerned
with it. Most of them are of the opinion that the less government the better, and have not
come to realize that an increasingly complex society--even in the rural community--makes it
no longer possible for the farm family to live to itself, but that for self-preservation it
must look to the social welfare of the whole community with which its life is bound up.

The need, therefore, is for the education of rural people with regard to their social responsibilities,
which must be largely accomplished through existing local rural organizations and local leadership.
Any system of rural social work which is to be permanently successful must be one which is
established by the people themselves from a realization of their needs, and progressively developed
as they appreciate its worth. As Dean A. R. Mann recently said, "In dealing with rural affairs
it has long been a common mistake to underrate the validity of the farmer's own judgment as
to what is good for him." "Superimposed organizations are usually doomed to failure because
they express the judgments of those without the community rather than those within whom they
are intended to serve." "Ordinarily the most serviceable rural organizations will be built
out of the materials of the community."[74] It is for this reason that the advance of rural
social work will depend upon arousing an active interest in the welfare of the community's
"disadvantaged" through discussion by such organizations as the church, the grange, the farm
and home bureau, lodges, women's clubs, instruction in high schools, etc. The work of the public
health nurse will reveal many family problems with which she is unable to deal and which demand
the help of one experienced in social work, and the nurse will be of service in educating the
community to the need of such work.

It seems obvious that by itself the rural community is too small a unit to employ a social
worker who is professionally trained for dealing with the more difficult social mal-adjustments,
and that it must coöperate with other communities for the organization of such work on a county
basis. Experience has shown that trained social workers actually save the county the cost of
their salaries and expenses, without considering the greater efficiency and permanent value
of the work done. The social worker has been well termed a "doctor of domestic difficulties."
Every county and community needs such a doctor who is skilled in treating social disease, but
one of her chief functions will be to act as an educational director in promoting the study
of local social conditions by the existing organizations in every community and in discovering
and training leadership for carrying out a constructive program as it is evolved. In some way
there should be a volunteer committee or worker in each community associated with the county
social worker to advise concerning policies and to carry on much of the local work under her
supervision and training. For it must be recognized that the economic resources of rural communities
are limited and that they cannot afford several social workers for different lines of effort,
as is common in cities. But more important is the fact that social welfare depends more largely
upon a proper understanding of its problems by the local community and a willingness to grapple
with them intelligently and sympathetically, than upon the remedial treatment afforded through
professional workers, courts, institutions and other public agencies. Social welfare is like
health, for which sanitation and hygiene are more important than doctors and medicines.

What is needed in the rural community is a transformation of the old-time family hospitality
and neighborliness into a feeling of responsibility for the unfortunate within the community
with whom there may not be immediate contact, but who nevertheless affect the moral and social
life of all its people. It needs the spirit and devotion of the Good Samaritan on the part
of the people, but it also needs the public health nurse and the social worker who, like the
inn-keeper of the parable, can give adequate care to the unfortunate.

FOOTNOTES:

[72] See Charles E. Gibbons, "A Rural Slum Community." The American Child. February, 1922. pg. 343.

[73] "Juvenile Delinquency in Rural New York." Kate Holladay Claghorn. U. S. Dept. of Labor,
Children's Bureau. Publication No. 32. Washington. 1918.

[74] "Social Responsibilities of the Rural Community," p. 129. Cornell Extension Bulletin 39.
Rural Community Conference Cornell Farmers' Week. 1919.

CHAPTER XVI

THE COMMUNITY'S GOVERNMENT

Local self-government is a well-established tradition in the United States, but as far as the
rural community is concerned it is more tradition than fact, for outside of New England the
rural community has no legal or political status. In New England the townships were originally
created as community units, for they were modelled after the European village community. The
meeting house determined the site of the village where the farmers and craftsmen resided, and
the boundaries of the township were coincident with the limits of their lands.

When the Mormons settled Utah they established a very similar form of community government
centering around the church. Elsewhere, with rare exceptions, throughout the North and West
the township is the primary unit of local government, save for school administration, but it
is by no means identical with a community. When the lands west of the Alleghanies were surveyed
for settlement they were laid off in blocks six miles square, which were known as congressional
townships, for Congress gave each township a square mile of land the proceeds of which should
form a permanent school fund. In discussing the development of the township in Illinois, Dr.
Albert Shaw writes:

      "To give effect to this liberal provision, the state enacted
      a law making the township a body corporate and politic for
      school purposes and authorizing the inhabitants to elect
      school officers and maintain free schools. Here, then, was a
      rudiment of local government. As New England township life
      grew up around the church, so western localism finds its
      nucleus in the school system. What more natural than that
      the county election district should be made to coincide with
      the school township, with a school-house for the voting
      place? or that justices of the peace, constables and road
      supervisors and overseers of the poor, should have their
      jurisdiction determined by the same township lines?"[76]

Thus in many of the North-central States the township came to be the local unit of government
for certain minor purposes, though in other states it is little more than an election district,
and in none of them is there preserved the old town meeting which gave the New England township
its fundamental democracy.

Owing to the large plantations and the economic and social conditions prevailing throughout
the South, it has had practically no units of government smaller than the county, other than
incorporated villages.

Until very recently our conception of society has been mostly in terms of political units,
largely on account of the lack of any local unit which had social significance to rural people.
In recent years, however, students of rural government have become aware of the artificiality
and the anti-social character of the township unit. There may be two rival villages within
a township, each competing for trade and the support of its associations, and striving for
the political domination of the township, while some of the farmers in a far corner of the
township may trade in a village in the next township. Or a village may be on a township line,
which must be observed in all matters of government although there is no real division of interests
between its people.

Outside of New England villages were located at points of geographical advantage, or along
through roads or railroads, primarily as business centers. There was no particular relation
between the village and the farming area surrounding it. But as the village grew it often desired
modern improvements such as water systems, pavements, street lights, etc., for which the farmers
were unwilling to be taxed and which were thus prevented as long as the village was controlled
by the township. This has led to most of the larger villages becoming incorporated, so that
they may administer their own local government and tax themselves for such improvements as
they desire. This separation of the village from the township has been inevitable where the
farmers take no pride or interest in it, and has often been necessitated by their parsimony
or conservatism. This is well illustrated by an incident related by Professor Herbert B. Adams:

      "In my native town, Amherst, Mass., the villagers struggled
      for years in town-meeting to secure some system of sewerage
      for 'the center,' but the 'ends of the town' always voted
      'no'. On one occasion, in order to allay suspicion of
      extravagance, a leading villager moved that, whatever system
      of sewerage be adopted, the surface water and rainfall be
      allowed to take their natural course down-hill in the
      ordinary gutters. The farmers sniffed danger in this wily
      proposition and voted an overwhelming 'No.' Accordingly by
      the local law of Amherst, water had to run uphill until the
      next town-meeting! Such is the power of Democracy."[77]

This separate incorporation of the village has been a large factor in making a distinction
between villagers and farmers and preventing their recognition of their community interests.
Not infrequently, however, it will be found that some of the more progressive villages are
not incorporated and that they have the loyalty of the farmers. Numerous examples of unincorporated
villages might be cited to show that where a spirit of pride in local village institutions
has been developed among the farmers of the territory tributary to it, that village improvements
not only are not impeded, but the community is much strengthened. This is more likely to be
true, however, where the township boundary and the natural community area are practically the same.

On the other hand, the progress of a rural community, i.e., a village and the territory tributary
to it, often is prevented if it cannot command a majority of the votes in a township. In a
nearby village is a town hall which might be used as a community house and be a social center
for the whole community. But the borders of the township belong to other communities and do
not come to the township center, and these people on the edge of the township very naturally
take the position that if the village and neighboring people wish to use the town hall, let
them rent it of the town, but why should the whole township be taxed for advantages which only
half of it can enjoy. The same line of argument arises with regard to the location of schools,
roads, libraries, and the districts for public health nurses. Unless the whole township can
be equally well served, a community which forms but part of the township is unable to secure
these advantages unless it can command a majority of the votes, or except as the village incorporates,
and then it loses the support of the taxes from the farms of the community which share the
benefits.

As long as farm life was on the neighborhood basis, its interests largely centering in the
district school and the country church, its roads maintained by the labor of its citizens under
a local road supervisor, and trips to the village were made only once or twice a week for mail
and supplies, farmers did not feel the need for a unit of local government other than the township.
But when the church, the grange and the lodge are in the village, when they desire consolidated
schools, libraries, and community houses, which are most convenient to all at the village center,
and when they desire the improvement of local roads so that they will best connect with state
and county roads, then the interests of the farmers and the villagers unite them in these common
enterprises, and the community comes into conflict with the rest of the township if the township
is composed of more than one community.

On the other hand, it must be recognized that for many purposes the community, or even the
township, is too small a unit to secure the greatest efficiency in administration of public
agencies, and so there has been a distinct tendency toward the centralization of many functions
of local government in county officials. Thus the county superintendent of schools is assuming
more and more control over the local school system, the county supervision of roads is increasing,
and we have shown (p. 145) the desirability of a county health administration, the need for
county juvenile courts (p. 188), county boards for the administration of welfare work (p. 191),
and a county library system. The county tends to become a rural municipality very similar in
function and organization to the city, and the logical outcome seems to be the employment of
a county manager under a commission or county council, which has already become possible in
Maryland and California.[78] That this centralization makes possible a greater efficiency in
administration can hardly be doubted, but that it tends to destroy the initiative and responsibility
of the local community is equally apparent. With an over-centralization of administration,
whether in the county or the state, the local community loses the very ties which have bound
it together. The adjustment of the desires for efficiency and for local democracy is one of
the unsolved problems of government. Experience shows clearly that the local community or township
is too small a unit to secure efficient administration; but it is also evident that without
some degree of local responsibility and control, centralized administration tends to become
bureaucratic and the people are deprived of that participation in government which is essential
for the life of a democracy.

Thus the need for the local self-government of rural communities has become apparent to rural
leaders. It is interesting to note that this is becoming appreciated in the South, where on
account of social and economic conditions local government has been almost entirely lacking
in the past, but where new conditions give rise to new desires which cannot be realized except
through some means whereby a locality can be free to work out its own salvation. This point
of view has been vigorously expressed by Dr. Clarence Poe, editor of the Progressive Farmer
and a recognized leader of rural life in the South:

      "The chief task of the man who would help develop a rich and
      puissant rural civilization here in the South--the chief
      task perhaps of the man who would make an agricultural
      State like North Carolina the great commonwealth it ought to
      be--is to develop the rural community."...

      "Consider the fact that the country community is the only
      social unit known to our civilization that is without
      definite boundaries and without machinery for
      self-expression and development--without form, and void, as
      was chaos before creation."...

      "But for the country community there is no organic means of
      expression whatever. There is, of course, that shadowy and
      futile geographical division known as the Township--but it
      is laid off utterly without regard to human consideration,
      and serves no purpose save as a means of defining voting
      boundaries and limiting the spheres of constables and
      sheriff's deputies--a mere ghostly phantom of a social
      entity that we need not consider at all."[79]

And he then goes on to show the advantages of the New England township.

Community School Districts.--The most significant beginning toward the creation of self-government
for the rural community is in the laws which have been passed by several states permitting
redistricting for the establishment of community high schools or consolidated schools, irrespective
of township or county boundaries and according to the desire of the prospective patrons of
the schools. Thus in 1919 Nebraska passed a state rural school redistricting law under which
every county has a redistricting committee which determines what seem to be the natural boundaries
of the district, which are then subject to petitions from the people for their alteration,
and the whole plan is then submitted to a vote of the county. "The law does not explicitly
state that the proposed districts must correspond to a natural community in the social sense;
it only says that they must be very much larger than the old ones, approximately twenty-five
square miles. The inevitable result, however, of opening the question and of freeing community
choice from old political boundaries is to settle on new areas approaching social units with
self-conscious community ties."[80] Kansas and Illinois have somewhat similar legislation and
a community unit is proposed by the Committee of 21 which has recently conducted a survey of
the rural school situation in the State of New York.

Community House Districts.--Wisconsin has passed an act whereby the people of any local area
may vote to erect and maintain a community house and may establish the boundaries of the area
in which the citizens shall have the right to tax themselves for this purpose, and to elect
trustees of the house, in much the same manner as community school districts are established.
It seems probable that when a natural social area has thus been determined it will probably
be the same for both school and community house, and that it might be the best unit for the
support of such community agencies as a public library, or a public-health nurse, and thus
a real community government might gradually arise and might ultimately displace the arbitrary
township government, although the township might be retained for its original purpose of land
registration.

Rural Community Incorporation.--The most advanced step in giving the rural community self-government
is An Act to Provide for the Incorporation of Rural Communities, passed by the legislature
of North Carolina in 1919.[81] This act gives authority for the incorporation of rural communities
including definite school districts, which may or may not include hamlets or village centers,
but which must be at least two miles from any town or city of five thousand or more inhabitants.
It gives such incorporated rural communities the general powers and privileges of an incorporated
village, except that they cannot lose their identity as a part of the school and road systems
of the county. Taxes may be levied for various public purposes, but they must be voted at an
annual meeting at which a majority of the registered voters must be present, or be submitted
to an election, and the amount of taxes and bonds are limited. Although about a dozen communities
have incorporated under this act, but few of them seem to be actively functioning, due to various
local causes. The act itself, however, is well conceived and is worthy of study by those interested
in better rural government.

Another method of accomplishing the same end is by a special act of incorporation for a particular
community, as was passed by the Legislature of New Jersey for Plainsboro Township in 1919.

Concerning the organization of this community, Hon. Alva Agee, State Secretary of Agriculture,
writes:

      "Every voter within its boundaries signed a petition to the
      legislature for the creation of a new township embracing the
      territory belonging to the community, and this was granted.
      The community then met, made a declaration of its purposes
      and adopted a constitution providing for control of all
      township and community affairs. It is a return to direct
      government by the people, and places responsibility upon
      every individual. It is the old New England town-meeting
      made effective. Patient study of every detail was given by
      members of the community."[82]

The declaration of purposes and constitution[83] are so unique that they should be studied
by all interested in community government.

      "A DECLARATION OF PURPOSES

      "We, the residents of Plainsboro Township, New Jersey,
      declare our purpose to accept all the duties of American
      citizenship.

      We are forming an association to secure all the benefits of
      community life, and affirm the right of our community to
      each one's best effort.

      We support all individual rights just as far as their use
      does not harm our fellows.

      We agree that the public good is superior to any private
      gain obtained at the expense of community welfare.

      We recognize and acknowledge the gracious influences of
      practical Christianity in community life.

      We ask that our homes be guarded by right social conditions
      throughout our community.

      We declare the duty of the community to provide good
      schools, means for community recreation, safe sanitary
      conditions, improved highways, and encouragement to thrift
      and home-ownership.

      We purpose to make the neatness and attractiveness of our
      homes and farms assets of distinct value to the township.

      We agree to do our share in the creation of public sentiment
      in support of all measures in the public interest.

      We agree to put aside all partisan and sectarian relations
      when dealing with community matters.

      We state our conviction that the best rewards from this
      organized effort lie before each one in a deepened interest
      in others and in an increased ability to coöperate the one
      with the other for the good of all.

      We, the citizens of Plainsboro Township, incorporated by act
      of the Legislature of the State of New Jersey, approved
      April 1, 1919, and accepted by us on May 6, 1919, subscribe
      to this declaration."

If such a Declaration of Purposes were adopted by every rural community, and were taught the
children as a civic oath of allegiance, would it not have more immediate effect on practical
patriotism than even the Declaration of Independence, and what new meaning would be given to
local government? Here is an example of rural civic spirit which, if it could become general
throughout the rural communities of the United States, would remold the political and social
organization of the whole country; for it provides both the mechanism and the spirit which
are essential for making democracy a reality rather than an ideal.

Community Government and Democracy.--The local community is indispensable as the primary political
unit for the maintenance of true democracy, both because it is small enough that there can
be personal relations between its members, in which a real consensus of opinion can be formed,
and also because only in it can the masses of mankind have any personal experience or participation
in government. Unless the individual has a social consciousness of the community in which he
lives, he can have but a feeble and hazy realization of larger social groups. Unless the community
through its individuals is self-conscious, it cannot take its rightful place in the larger
community of which it forms a part. If democracy does not obtain in the local community, the
voice of such a community in the affairs of the county or state will be that of its self-chosen
leaders. It is difficult to conceive how any real democracy can be secured in State or Nation
where it does not obtain in their constituent communities. It is entirely possible to have
a government democratic in form and theory, but actually a political or economic feudalism,
supported by local chieftains who represent not the people, but themselves or some business
or other special interests. The very life of true democracy is in the participation of individuals
in the government of the local group and in the organization of the locality groups, so that
there may be a fair discussion and expression by those who are bound together by common interests
through some form of self-government for the rural community.

FOOTNOTES:

[75] "Civil Government in the United States," pp. 17, 18. Boston, 1890.

[76] "Local Government in Illinois," p. 10. Johns Hopkins Univ. Studies in History and Political
Science. Vol. I, No. 3, 1883.

[77] Editor's note, p. 51. "Penn. Boroughs," by Wm. F. Holcomb. Johns Hopkins Univ. Stud. in
History and Pol. Sc. Vol. IV, No. 4, 1886.

[78] See E. H. Ryder, "Proposed Modifications and Recent Tendencies in Rural Government and
Legislation," p. 112, Proc. 3d Natl. Country Life Conference.

[79] "Why Not Local Self-Government for Rural Communities," pp. 4-48. North Carolina Club Year
Book, 1917-1918. "County Government and County Affairs in North Carolina." The University of
North Carolina Record. No. 159. Oct., 1918. Chapel Hill, N. C.

[80] H. Paul Douglas. "Recent Legislation Facilitating Rural Community Organization," p. 124,
Proc. 3d Natl. Country Life Conference.

[81] Public Laws of 1919, Reprinted as Appendix A, p. 116, of A. W. Hayes, "Rural Community
Organization." Chicago, 1921.

[82] "A Community Organization." National Stockman and Farmer. July 26, 1919.

[83] For the constitution see Appendix A, page 247.

CHAPTER XVII

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION[84]

From one standpoint the whole progress of civilization is but a process of social organization,
the establishment of those relationships which best promote the largest measure of human welfare.
In the previous chapters we have noted the various aspects and problems of rural life which
have necessitated the community as a unit for social organization. As a result of the growing
conviction that the conditions of rural life can be made satisfying only through the collective
efforts of definite communities, there has arisen a widespread movement for the better organization
of community interests and activities, which has come to be known as community organization.
Although this movement is being encouraged by many agencies, its greatest significance and
importance arises from the fact that, for the most part, community organization of many diverse
types is springing up in rural communities throughout the country as a means of meeting their
local needs. This spontaneity of the movement is the best evidence that changing conditions
have brought about a real need for some better machinery for community development.

In order to understand community organization so that we may intelligently encourage its development,
it will be well to consider (1) the underlying causes, (2) the process of organization, and
(3) the forms of organization.

1. Causes.--Usually the immediate cause of attempting community organization is the common
desire to meet a need which cannot well be realized except through the united effort of the
whole community. Improved roads are needed, a library or playground is desired, a Liberty Loan
must be raised, a Fourth of July celebration or a pageant is to be undertaken, a band or baseball
team needs financial support and patronage to prevent its disbanding, hard times or a fire
make unusual aid necessary to certain families, an influenza epidemic compels a united effort
for the care of the sick. In all such cases a citizens' committee is usually organized which
represents various organizations and interests so that the support of all the elements in the
community may be enlisted. When any common need is of such a magnitude or of such a nature
that it is not within the field of any one organization or agency, then some form of at least
temporary community organization is necessary. When some of these needs, such as a community
house or a public health nurse, require permanent maintenance, and the coöperation of various
organizations is essential for the success of the enterprise, then some permanent form of community
organization becomes desirable. If a community organization is to be permanent and is to really
function, there must be work for it to do which cannot or will not be done by existing agencies.

A second cause for community organization arises from the increasing complexity of human relationships,
even in a rural community. We have observed that in recent years there has been a rapid increase
in the number of associations each of which is devoted to some one special interest. The life
of simpler or more primitive communities is a unit with regard to all phases of their life,
religion, government, and social affairs. Such was the township of colonial New England and
many a community in the pioneer stage. But in modern times a multiplicity of voluntary associations
have sprung up and have spread from one community to another. In many cases the members of
such organizations become more loyal to them than to the community; organizations become self-centered
and divisive rather than being devoted to the community good. Religion, government, economic
life, and education have become more or less separate spheres of life, each having a code of
its own, whereas human problems involve all of these aspects of life and cannot be successfully
solved while there is conflict of standards between religion, business, government, and social
life. Not infrequently more than one organization undertakes the same or similar work, or the
demands of one clash with those of another, and social confusion arises. When this occurs in
a large city between organizations which are supported by the wealthy or by different groups,
each may go as far as its resources will permit; but in the rural community where organizations
must be of the people and supported by all of them, such a situation cannot be tolerated for
both funds and leadership are limited.

Organizations arise to meet recognized human needs, but no one organization can meet all the
needs of the whole community. Nor do all organizations appeal to all people. Men associate
according to their special individual interests, some are more interested in religion and business,
others in social life or athletics, or what not. As the organizations representing these interests
become more and more specialized, each individual belongs to several organizations, whose interests
sometimes conflict and members of a community are arrayed against each other. Thus an individual
is sometimes involved in a divided loyalty between two groups, and finds himself with a conflict
of purposes which lessens that personal unity which is essential for character and personal
peace. The character of the individual is developed to the extent that he is able to resolve
this conflict of his interests in one dominant purpose. So the welfare of the community can
be secured only by a unity of purpose among its organizations in their loyalty to the common
good. This tendency to form associations for special interests is shown in the following diagram:

  FOR A SATISFYING}                   {ASSOCIATIONS AND
  LIFE EVERY MAN  }     These needs   {ORGANIZATIONS REPRESENTING
  NEEDS:          }     are met by    {SPECIAL
                  }                   {INTERESTS OF THE
                  }                   {COMMUNITY, such as

  1. ECONOMIC PROSPERITY               Coöperative Marketing Assns.
  --An Adequate Income                 Coöperative Buying Assns.
                                       Commercial Clubs
                                       Farm Loan Assns.

  2. HEALTH                            Public health nurses
  --Physical Fitness                   Local health officer
                                       Local hospitals

  3. EDUCATION                         Schools
  --The Ability to Learn               Parent-Teacher's Assns.
                                       Farm and Home Bureau
                                       Boys' and Girls' Clubs
                                       Public Library and Museum
                                       Community Fairs

  4. SOCIABILITY AND RECREATION        Lodges
  --The Joy of Playing Together        Women's clubs; men's clubs
                                       Scouts; Camp Fire Girls
                                       Athletic Clubs and Assns.
                                       Moving pictures and theatres
                                       Public playground & gymnasium

  5. ARTISTIC ENJOYMENT                Village Improvement Societies
  --Appreciation of Beauty in          Community Choruses
  Nature, Music, Art and Literature    Bands and Orchestras

  6. RELIGIOUS LIFE                    Churches and church federations
  --The Common Quest of the            Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A.
  Highest Ideals                       Young People's Societies

  7. FAMILY WELFARE                    Red Cross--Home Service
  --Love of Family                     Child Welfare Bureaus and Child
                                       Study Clubs

  8. A PROGRESSIVE COMMUNITY           Some form of a Community
  --A Desire for Opportunity           organization, bringing together
  for All--i.e., Democracy             all the above.

On the other hand we must recognize man's gregarious tendency, his desire for the support of
public opinion, his craving of a feeling of "togetherness." The elation which comes to a people
engaged in war or in meeting any common disaster comes chiefly from the satisfaction they experience
in being united in a common cause and enjoying the sanction of their fellows without division
among them. The individualistic philosophy of the more sophisticated may enable them to find
satisfaction in more or less socially segregated groups under ordinary conditions, but when
they face calamity, when the most fundamental and deepest issues of life are involved, then
they enjoy association with those who surround them--they become "neighbors."

This desire of men to associate in groups which represent their special interests, and their
equal desire to be en rapport with all their fellows with whom their life is associated in
community life, is one of the paradoxes into which many of our basic human problems resolve,
and furnishes one of the primary reasons for some form of community organization which will
unify the increasing complexity of associations.

A third underlying motive for community organization, which is just coming to receive recognition,
is the need of defending the interests of the local community against the domination of national
or state organizations, of maintaining a necessary degree of local autonomy. All organizations
which become associated in state or national federations inevitably develop a central administration
which tends to become more or less of a hierarchy or bureaucracy. The national organization
seeks to achieve its special objects and to emphasize their supreme importance. It tries to
secure efficiency of the local groups through standardization, and very naturally encourages
their loyalty to the state or national aims and purposes. This tendency is more or less inevitable
and is an inherent weakness of all large organizations which do not constantly place their
emphasis on strengthening their local units and encouraging devotion to community service.
But in many cases the larger organization has lost a true perspective of its relationship to
its local units and of their primary duty to their local communities. The most flagrant instance
of this principle is in the domination of local government by national political parties, whose
policies have nothing whatever to do with local administration, but who maintain their "machines"
so that an efficient organization is available for mobilizing the vote in state and national
elections. The resulting reaction has given rise to citizen's tickets, commission government
and city managers, and in the more progressive smaller communities a growing tendency to vote
for the best man irrespective of party. Wherever a community votes independently of national
party lines on local affairs, there will be found healthy local government. For the same general
reasons we have observed the growth of the community church movement (p. 127) as a protest
against sectarian rivalries, the new emphasis of the master of the national grange (p. 172)
on the community responsibilities of the grange as more important than its legislative activities,
and the effort to prevent an over-centralization of school administration through the creation
of community school districts under local control. A striking example of the reaction of local
communities in self-defense against the demands for support from many organizations was the
rapid spread of the "War Chest" movement among our cities during the war as a means of raising
funds for various national organizations carrying on war work. Subsequently the same idea has
given rise to the organization of "Community Chests" or "Community Funds" for financing various
community and national welfare agencies, so as to ensure adequate support for those which are
necessary, but to discourage a multiplicity of competing organizations, and to furnish a mechanism
whereby the community may exercise some definite policy with regard to its social work.

Such are some of the fundamental causes which have given rise to various experiments in community
organization. They commenced about a decade ago, but increased slowly prior to the war. The
war brought about a new realization of the community, as it was necessary to organize war activities,
"war drives," etc., on a community basis. Under the National Council of Defense were organized
State and County Councils of Defense and finally President Wilson issued a letter encouraging
the organization of local Community Councils,[85] to bring together all organizations and interests
of the community not only for war purposes but with a view to their future usefulness in times
of peace. In this letter, President Wilson said:

      "Your State, in extending the national defense organization
      by the creation of community councils, is in my opinion
      making an advance of vital significance. It will, I believe,
      result when thoroughly carried out in welding the Nation
      together as no nation of great size has been welded before.
      It will build up from the bottom an understanding and
      sympathy and unity of purpose and effort which will no doubt
      have an immediate and decisive effect upon our great
      undertaking. You will find it, I think, not so much a new
      task as a unification of existing efforts, a fusion of
      energies now too much scattered and at times somewhat
      confused into one harmonious and effective power. It is only
      by extending your organization to small communities that
      every citizen of the State can be reached and touched with
      the inspiration of the common cause."

The organization of community councils was actively pushed by the National and State Councils
of Defense, and thousands of them were organized. This was in the summer of 1918, but owing
to the early declaration of the Armistice they had but little opportunity to become thoroughly
established. As they had been created primarily for war purposes, most of them ceased to function
with the cessation of hostilities, but the idea had taken root and the experience of common
effort in war activities had brought about a new sense of the value of some sort of community
organization.

2. The Process of Community Organization.--As corollaries of the motives for community organization
which we have just discussed, there are certain fairly obvious principles concerning the process
of organization which deserve emphasis.

The first essential is to determine whether there are unsatisfied desires which cannot be met
except by community action and whether they are sufficiently desired to command the united
support of the community. Only as individuals and associations have common desires which cannot
be satisfied without their united activity can community organization be effected. The mere
logical desirability of coördination of effort, however rational it may appear, is too abstract
an objective to inspire enduring devotion. The allaying of antagonisms between special interests
makes no appeal to any of them until they are unable to achieve their ends without joint action.
Therefore, the primary consideration in community organization is to determine what is the
most important unmet need of the community which requires united action for its satisfaction,
and to enlist all possible elements in the common enterprise.

A community must be thoroughly convinced of the need of some definite form of community organization
before it can succeed. Sudden enthusiasm due to the power of a persuasive speaker or a community
meeting may result in the formation of a community organization, but unless a considerable
proportion of the people representing various interests are firmly convinced of the need and
are willing to pool their interests in community activities, such an organization will be like
many a convert of a revival meeting, it will soon "backslide." To secure the recognition of
the need for concerted action by all elements of the community will usually require time and
education, and is a process which cannot be forced too rapidly--all education or learning involves
time.

Even when an outstanding need is apparent it may not always be possible to gain the support
of a sufficient portion of the community to justify an immediate effort for its achievement.
It may be necessary to first arouse good feeling and community spirit by some activity which,
though relatively less important, will command more general interest and participation, and
may pave the way for other enterprises. The first and essential step in community organization
is to get the community to act together, for only through collective activity is community
spirit and loyalty developed. It is for this reason that Old Home Weeks, family reunions, athletic
or play festivals, baseball teams, picnics, pageants, dramatics, community fairs, community
Chautauquas, holiday celebrations, and kindred events are often the best means for creating
better community spirit.[86] It should be remembered that the objective of community organization
is not an organization, but the active coöperation of all the people and organizations of the
community for the common welfare. The essential is common ideals and loyalties; the mechanism
whereby these may be achieved is incidental.

Until genuine local leadership is available, community organization will be impossible. It
is true that often where the need for community activity is sufficiently great that the very
necessity develops new leadership. Herein lies the value of beginning the process of community
organization by some enterprise which enlists the enthusiastic support of the whole community,
for in such activities new leadership is often developed.

Any form of community organization which is to be permanent and effective must represent the
actual life of the community, which is largely dominated by existing organizations. Most individuals
are loyal to certain of these organizations and these loyalties are the social realities which
must be recognized in any attempt to unite them in larger aims. Unless most of the leading
organizations of a community can be affiliated for community progress, any so-called community
organization will be but another organization. The League of Nations hardly represents the
world community as long as the United States, Germany and Russia are not affiliated with it,
nor would our federal government be representative of our national life if it were responsible
only to the direct vote of the people and did not give recognition to the states as states.
It is for this reason that community organization will proceed most efficiently where it is
initiated by the joint effort of several of its leading associations, the churches, the grange,
the farm and home bureau, the Red Cross, the business men's association, etc., for without
their support a divided loyalty will persist.

For the same reason, a community organization cannot be under the auspices of any one existing
organization as a chamber of commerce or farm bureau. Both of these and others are community
organizations, but they are for specific purposes. Proponents of both of these have advocated
making them community-wide and all-embracing in their functions, but it needs but little reflection
to show the impossibility of such a plan. To cite but one objection. The rural church is the
most deeply-rooted and in many ways the most powerful of rural institutions. It can coöperate
with these other organizations for community purposes, but neither of them can enter into the
religious field. The same is true of lodges, schools, health organizations, government, etc.
Community organizations, such as the Chamber of Commerce or Commercial Club, the Grange and
the Farm Bureau for agriculture and homemaking, the Red Cross for its activities, Church Federations,
and others should all be encouraged where needed, but although each of these has certain community
functions, no one of them can do or can direct the work of another. The community organization
must bring them together so as to best coördinate their work for the good of the community,
not through the power of an organic federation, but through the influence of conference, good
will and devotion to the common weal.

3. The Community Council.--Community organizations are, as yet, in an experimental stage and
their formal constitutions or by-laws are of many different types.[87] The Community Council,
as suggested by the National Council of Defense, has been adopted in many communities with
various modifications to meet local conditions. A community council consists of one representative
from each general organization which affiliates with it and of a variable number of members-at-large
elected by the annual community meeting. All citizens are entitled to vote for the members-at-large.
The usual officers may be elected by the community meeting, or, preferably, be chosen by the
council itself. Thus the council represents both the existing organizations and the community
as a whole. The council does not attempt any control over existing organizations, but merely
provides a means for their voluntary coöperation and is an agency for promoting community activities.
In many cases where there are a large number of organizations, and it is surprising how many
are found in many average-sized rural communities, the council will be too large to be an effective
working body. Furthermore, the members who represent various organizations may not always be
the best persons to carry on the particular enterprises which the council desires to promote.
The council may, under such circumstances, devote itself to the consideration of policies and
enterprises, and may create committees of citizens who are best qualified and most interested
in particular projects to have charge of their execution. Thus if the council decides to get
back of a movement for a playground, a public health nurse, and a band, committees would be
appointed to take charge of organizing each one of these enterprises. These committees should
be selected so as to represent the various organizations most directly concerned with or interested
in the particular project as far as possible, but they should be chosen primarily for their
ability to produce results. Committees should be appointed only for those projects which the
council decides to undertake, although one or two committees may be appointed merely to investigate
suggested projects and to report their findings for further consideration. Where the council
is large, and it is not practicable to have it meet more than once a quarter, it may be well
to have its work carried on in the interims by an executive committee consisting of the officers
and the chairmen of the committees.

There can be no one best type of community organization adapted to the widely varying conditions
of all sorts and sizes of rural communities; each community must have a form of organization
adapted to its needs. The important thing is not the creation of another new organization in
the community, but to afford the means for the better team play of those which already exist.
The mechanism must therefore depend upon the character and stage of development of the community
and will be modified from time to time as its experience, or that of similar community organizations,
warrants.

Finally let us remember that community organization is not an end in itself, but that it is
merely a means whereby conditions in the community may be made such that every individual in
it may have the best possible chance to develop his personality and to enjoy the fellowship
of service in the common good. The aim of all social organization is personality, but personality
is achieved and can find its own satisfaction only through fellowship. The ideal community
but furnishes the social environment in which the human spirit realizes its highest values.

FOOTNOTES:

[84] Much of this chapter is a revision of parts of an article by the author entitled "Some
Fundamentals of Rural Community Organization." Proceedings Third Natl. Country Life Conference,
pp. 66-77.

[85] See Elliott Dunlap Smith, Proceedings first National Country Life Conference, pp. 36-46
and Appendix C.

[86] In this connection, Dr. N. L. Sims in his "The Rural Community" (p. 640. New York. Scribners,
1920), has propounded a most interesting "Law of Rural Socialization":--"Coöperation in rural
neighborhoods has its genesis in and development through those forms of association which,
beginning on the basis of least cost, gradually rise through planes of increasing cost to the
stage of greatest cost in effort demanded, and which give at the same time ever increasing
and more enduring benefits and satisfactions to the group."

[87] See pp. 74-5, "Some Fundamentals of Rural Community Organization." Proc. 3d National Country
Life Conference; and, E. C. Lindeman, "The Community," Chap. X. New York, Association Press, 1921.

CHAPTER XVIII

COMMUNITY PLANNING

So far we have been considering the community with regard to how its people associate, with
community psychology and behavior. But we must not forget that the community has a physical
basis. The buildings which house these associations at the community center, the church, the
school, the grange hall, the stores, with the roads which radiate from it and the farmsteads
which they serve, these are the structures which, with the natural topography of stream and
hill, give material form to the community and condition its life.

One of the chief difficulties in the development of rural communities in the United States
is that, like Topsy, they have "just growed." Village centers have sprung up here and there
and gradually the surrounding countryside becomes associated with them. As a result little
consideration has been given to planning the community either for efficiency or attractiveness.
Sinclair Lewis' description of Gopher Prairie in "Main Street" may be overdrawn and unjust
to many a rural community, but it describes conditions which are so common that it has aroused
the public conscience concerning the lack of civic spirit in rural communities.

A community is much like an individual. The man who is slouchy and careless of his personal
appearance is rarely a strong character. The community whose cemetery is neglected, whose school
grounds are a mass of mud and the outhouses a disgrace, whose lawns are unkept, where ash-piles
and neglected puddles fill the vacant lots, whose roads are tortuous and unimproved, whose
farm houses are unpainted and whose barnyards are more prominent than the door-yards--such
a community is usually weak. It has little pride in itself or desire for improvement. In the
case of the man who is "down and out," if we wish to give him a new start, we encourage him
to take a bath and a shave and we then furnish him clean clothes, so that looking more respectable
he may act the part. Likewise in community improvement a "clean up day" is often one of the
best means of starting a new pride among its people.

But improving its looks will not remedy the more fundamental structural defects which frequently
handicap the rural community. Utility as well as beauty is essential in community arrangement.
If the community is to escape ugliness and inconvenience, it will sooner or later come to the
time when it must definitely plan the arrangement of its streets and roads, its public buildings
and its open spaces, so as to best serve all parts of the community. Community planning is
as essential to satisfactory "community housekeeping" as the plan of a house is for the convenience
of the home. An architect is needed to plan a home for the community, a community structure
which is mechanically sound and efficient and withal both beautiful and comfortable, just as
much as for designing a house. So the art of "town planning" is extending from the cities to
the country and some of our landscape architects who love the countryside and appreciate its
life and problems are giving their attention to rural community planning.[88]

This is not the place to enter into any extended discussion of the art of community planning,
but we may well consider a few principles which are essential for realizing the ideals of community
development.

As the community center is the nucleus of the community life, let us first consider the village
plan.

One enters the community at the railroad station or by a main road. It is, of course, impossible
to prevent the property adjoining a railroad from being the least attractive, because it is
the most undesirable for residence purposes; but it is entirely practicable to have a neat
railroad station with well-kept surroundings. Some of our more progressive railroad companies
have perceived that it is good business to make their stations and grounds attractive and most
of them will be willing to meet the local people halfway in an effort to improve their appearance.
In far too many cases the grounds of the railroad station and the adjoining properties are
the most neglected spot in the village and give an unfavorable impression of the community.
Certainly we would think a man queer who placed the back-door of his house to the street, but
the railroad station is usually the back-door of the community instead of the main entrance
as it should be. On the other hand, on alighting at a well-kept station, with a neat lawn,
good walks and roads, which is not surrounded by the village rubbish heaps and dilapidated
buildings, the newcomer feels that here is a place which invites further acquaintance, while
the native has a sense of satisfaction rather than of apology.

The same principles apply to main road entrances to the village. The automobile has greatly
increased highway travel. Where a village places a sign at its entrance "Welcome to Smithville,"
and at its exit "Come Again," as is now frequently done, it not only makes a favorable impression
on the tourist, but it gives the community a sense of identity. In New England these signs
are frequently placed, at the township line rather than at the village boundary. In a few cases
villages have erected dignified stone pillars or arches at the entrance points.

The building of state roads between village centers has almost necessitated paving or hard
roads in the village, for people resent traveling over a good road in the open country and
then plowing through mud holes in a village. Not infrequently the streets of the incorporated
village are much poorer than the state roads outside the village and although incorporation
formerly enabled the village to do its own paving and make other public improvements, the unincorporated
village now has the advantage of having its main roadways constructed as a part of state or
county road systems at less expense to the villagers. In any event the paving of the principal
streets of the village should be considered an obligation of the whole community, not only
of the village but of the farm area surrounding it--i.e., the township, for on them the traffic
of the whole community centers and in many cases the farmers of the community do more actual
hauling over the village streets than do the people of the village. It is, of course, entirely
proper, where state laws permit, to assess part of the cost of village pavements on the abutting
property, but it is short-sighted economy for farmers to object to sharing in the cost of such
improvements in their community centers.

When we come to a consideration of the general plan or layout of the village, it is obvious
that in older communities it is hardly practicable to make material changes. In the old New
England villages a part of the original town common has often been preserved as a "common"
or park in the center of the village with a broad expanse of lawn and stately shade trees,
while newer communities have frequently been laid out around a central open square. Here is
the flagpole and the Soldiers' Monument or other historic memorials, and possibly a fountain
or watering trough, and sometimes a band stand. It is a place where open-air meetings of all
sorts, band concerts and community singing, may be held. It is the modern substitute for the
forum of the old Roman town. When one compares a village which is merely strung along a main
roadway, or two crossroads, with one which has such a civic center, he cannot but feel that
the latter has a physical structure which gives it an identity and a common interest which
is lacking in the former and which must mean much in the maintenance of community pride and
which must give much better opportunity for outdoor gatherings of all sorts. In planning a
new community such a public square should be a central feature. Around it may be built the
school, the town hall or community house, the churches, the library and other public buildings.
If large enough it should include tennis courts and a playground. Where the main streets are
already occupied with business blocks and residences, it may be possible to secure a square
not far from the village center where a new school building or community house may be erected
and which may include a playground, bandstand, and whatever features are desired, even if it
is necessary to place it at the edge of the village. Wherever possible the playground should
adjoin the school building or community house, or both. Either as a feature of the playground
or adjoining it, there should be a baseball diamond and bleachers or grandstand. Such a civic
center will be found to be a powerful factor in the maintenance of community pride and loyalty.[89]

The growth of automobile touring has encouraged the provision of camping sites for tourists
on the edge of the village. Wherever a suitable grove or other natural setting can be found
nearby a village it should be reserved as a public picnic ground or park. A part of this might
also be made available for a tourists' camp, and often it will be a good location for a ball
diamond. There has recently been a steady growth of interest in community fairs and such a
picnic ground or park might well be arranged with an open space adjoining it for fair and festival
purposes.

These general features and facilities of the village plan are not simply for the advantage
or beautification of the village, but they benefit the life of the whole community and should
be considered as features of the community's plant.

When we leave the village center and survey the farming area of the community, the most fundamental
feature of its structure is the road plan. In hilly regions the location of roads is necessarily
largely determined by topography, but over most of the Middle West the roads were laid out
on section lines at the time of the original surveys and their location has never been changed.
One who has grown up in that section feels a sort of pride in the straight roads and looks
askance at the crooked roads of the East, but as a matter of fact the latter are in many cases
much better located as regards their utility, for they were laid out to reach certain centers
by the most direct route. On the other hand, the location of the village centers of the Middle
West was largely determined by the railroad stations, and the roads were located without regard
to them. As a result it is almost always necessary to traverse two sides of a square in order
to reach the community center. This means that such a route is forty percent longer from the
corners of the community than it would be by a straight line. This was bad enough with dirt
roads, and if all the roads could be hard-surfaced, the automobile would, of course, lessen
the time required for travel. It is, however, economically impossible to improve all minor
roads and with the high cost of macadam, concrete, brick, or other hard-surface, not only for
original cost but for upkeep, it seems absurd to continue to build the main roads on rectangular
lines rather than by the shortest route between the most-traveled points. The saving in cost
of construction and maintenance would much more than pay for the cost of all land which it
would be necessary to condemn for their right-of-way, and the saving in time and cost of transportation
for the whole community would amount to a large sum every year. Far too little attention has
been given by road engineers to community planning, and with the vast sums which are now being
expended by the federal, state and county governments on permanent roads, it is of the utmost
importance that this matter of road location with regard to directness of access to the community
centers should receive much more careful study and better supervision by all the authorities
concerned, not only with regard to topography, but with regard to the social and economic welfare
of the areas concerned. The newer sections of the country, and particularly western Canada,
have become aware of this lack of economy in road location and are giving it consideration.
In a report on Rural Planning and Development prepared for the Canadian Commission on Conservation,
Mr. Thomas Adams, the town planning adviser of the commission, has outlined several plans for
the better location of roads so that they will radiate from the community center and has shown
that it is entirely possible to retain rectangular farm plans with radial roads.[90] He summarizes
his discussion of this matter as follows:

      "The main points of contention in this chapter are:--That
      the present system of surveying land for the purpose of
      securing accurate boundaries to arbitrary divisions and
      sub-divisions of land, while satisfactory for that purpose,
      is not a method of planning land, but only a basis on which
      to prepare planning and development schemes; that no
      definite or stereotyped system of planning can be
      satisfactory for general application; that all plans should
      have regard to the physical and economic conditions of the
      territory to which they apply and should be made for the
      general purpose of securing healthy conditions, amenity,
      convenience and economic use of the land; and that more
      complete and adequate surveys and a comprehensive
      classification of land is essential to secure successful and
      permanent land settlement." (p. 71)

Another feature of community planning which is coming to receive larger attention is the preservation
of unusual geological and scenic features for the use of public. One of the scenic attractions
most commonly neglected is the land along waterways. Sometimes the land on one side of a stream
is occupied by a road, but in many cases it is private property. If reserved to the public
many of these watercourses might be most attractive parkways. In many cases the control of
waterways has been necessitated for the maintenance of the purity of the water supply and the
advantage of having the adjoining land--usually more or less wooded--available for picnic parties
has encouraged the extension of public control of waterways. Several states now have legislation
permitting counties or towns to acquire such areas for park purposes, and the Province of Ontario
and some other Canadian provinces require that a width of 66 feet be reserved around all lakes
and rivers.

In order to utilize the waste land of the watersheds and to protect the shores of reservoirs
and streams which furnish public water supplies, many cities have reforested considerable areas,
which will be maintained as public forests and will be cut as the timber becomes merchantable.
This movement has called attention to the practicability of establishing town or community
forests on cheap land unsuitable for tillage, as a source of income to the community. Communal
forests have existed in Europe for many centuries, and at the present time form 22 percent
of the forests in France. A movement has now commenced for the planting of town forests in
this country,[91] and the better utilization of the community's waste land by planting it in
timber should be considered a feature of community planning.

The improvements effected in cities through city planning commissions, both with regard to
street location for the better routing of traffic, and the laying out of parks and the location
of public buildings, have been so apparent, that the idea has been taken up by rural communities
and a few states have passed legislation for the creation of special agencies for rural community
planning. Thus Massachusetts has for several years had a Town Planning Commission and in 1919
Wisconsin passed an act[92] creating a division on rural planning of the State Department of
Agriculture, and creating rural planning committees in each county. In 1920 thirty-six counties
had organized such committees under this law and had already accomplished much under its authority.[93]
Some of the more progressive land companies which are colonizing new lands in northern Wisconsin
are making definite community plans to encourage settlement,[94] and in California the State
Land Settlement Board has done much to encourage better rural planning by the demonstrations
which it has made in its farm colonies at Durham and Delhi.[95] The Extension Services of several
of the State agricultural colleges have experts on landscape art who give assistance in the
improvement of public grounds and in community planning.

A system of numbering farms has recently been invented which is based upon the relations of
farms to their community centers and which therefore makes necessary the definite location
of rural community areas and their boundaries. This is known as the "Clock System" rural index
and is now in use in four counties in New York State. The county map published in the directory
shows the different communities outlined by heavily shaded lines and the farm numbers radiate
from the community centers. On the map each community is divided as a spider's web into a number
of small spaces by twelve dotted lines that extend from each village on the same radii as the
hour-marks on the dial of a clock, and by concentric circles which are a mile apart from each
community center. Each set of lines and circles extends to the community boundary, and the
farm is given a number which shows the sector in which it is located with reference to the
distance from the community center. In front of a farm will be found a number, usually just
below the mail box, such as Alton 3-2-K. This indicates that the farm is in the direction of
the 3 o'clock mark on a clock, or east, of Alton; the second term, 2, shows that it is between
two and three miles from Alton and the letter K enables one to locate the individual farm on
the small area between the 3 o'clock and 4 o'clock radial lines and the two and three mile
circles. In the directory accompanying the map the names of all householders are arranged alphabetically
and also serially by their numbers, so that the name of the householder at a certain number
of his location on the map may be readily ascertained. This system not only makes necessary
a definite determination of the center and boundary of every community, but the number itself
relates the farm to its community. This is a matter of considerable importance, for since the
abolishment of many rural postoffices the farmer's mail address may be on a rural route starting
from some railroad station or larger town which he visits only occasionally, and has no reference
to the community in which he lives. The system was invented by a Colorado farmer, Mr. J. B.
Plato, who devised it so that it might be possible for buyers to find his farm. As he claims,
such a number "puts the farmer on the map" and gives his home a definite location just as does
the street number of the city house.[96]

Finally, in any effort toward community planning it must be remembered that most rural communities
are, in a way, but parts of what, for want of a better term, we may term larger communities.
Not every small rural community can support a library building, a hospital, a high school,
a moving picture theater, or a public health nurse. As has been pointed out in the previous
chapters, these agencies can be maintained only at such centers as can command the support
of several smaller communities. Obviously they will tend to be located at the larger towns,
such as the county seats. Roads should be planned with regard to making these larger centers
most readily available to their tributary territory. It would seem to be advantageous to the
smaller communities to definitely relate themselves to one of these larger centers in the support
of some of the more costly community services which they are unable to maintain, and an understanding
should be developed between the smaller and larger centers, whereby the latter will not attempt
to displace the former. The larger villages and towns must recognize that the smaller nearby
communities are an economic and social asset and that the maintenance of their village centers
is essential to successful community life. On the other hand, the smaller communities should
recognize their own limitations and should utilize the advantages of the larger centers without
jealousy of them. The county library system and the county hospital illustrate the advantages
to be obtained through the larger community, but which are impossible without the support of
the voters of the smaller subsidiary communities.

With the growth of the community idea, and as communities become so organized that they have
some mechanism for self-examination and self-expression, more study will be given to the physical
structure of the community as essential for economy and utility, and more pride will be taken
in making it beautiful and satisfying. Community planning is essential for the highest type
of community development.

FOOTNOTES:

[88] For a most suggestive introduction to this whole field see Prof. Frank A. Waughs "Rural
Improvement." New York, Orange Judd Co., 1914.

[89] Many plans for ideal rural community centers have been published. Among them see N. Y.
State College of Agriculture, Extension Circular No. 1, "A Plan for a Rural Community Center";
Peter A. Speek, "A Stake in the Land," Plate facing page 252; plans of Durham and Delhi, California,
in reports of Calif. Land Settlement Board.

One of the most comprehensive studies in rural community planning is "Town Planning for Small
Communities," by Walpole (Mass.) Town Planning Committee. Edited by C. S. Bird.

[90] Thomas Adams, "Rural Planning and Development." Canada Commission of Conservation, Ottawa,
1917, pp. 53-64, with illustrations.

[91] Samuel T. Dana, "Forestry and Community Development." Bulletin 638, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.

A. B. Recknagel, "County, Town, and Village Forests." N. Y. State College of Agriculture, Cornell
Reading Course for the Farm, Lesson 40, 1913.

John S. Everitt, "Working Plan for a Communal Forest for the Town of Ithaca, N. Y.," Cornell
Univ. Agr. Exp. Station, Bulletin 404.

[92] Chapter 693, Wis. Laws of 1919, Creating section 1458-11 of the Statutes.

[93] See "The Survey," Dec. 25, 1920, p. 459.

[94] See Peter A. Speek, "A Stake in the Land," p. 53. New York, Harpers, 1921.

[95] See Elwood Mead, "Helping Men Own Farms." New York, Macmillan, 1921. Information concerning
it may be secured from the American Rural Index Corporation, Ithaca, N. Y.

CHAPTER XIX

COMMUNITY LOYALTY

Just as we know a man by his bodily presence, so we recognize a community by its location and
its physical structure. Yet the man is more than a body and the community is more than its
material basis; the real community consists of the men, women, and children living together
in a restricted environment. Dr. R. E. Hieronymous has well expressed the most fundamental
aspect of the community when he says that its people "are coming to act together in the chief
concerns of life."[97] The life of the community consists of the common activities of its people.
There can be no community where there is no devotion to a common cause. The cause may be now
one thing, now another, it may be worthy or debasing, but in so far as the people of a locality
are acting together in the support of various common causes they are living as a community.
Just as the character of an individual is determined by his life purposes and the degree to
which he conforms his behavior to them, so the highest type of community is that in which its
people are consciously loyal to the common welfare and are "coming to act together" for the
common good. Like the character of an individual, the community is in process of becoming;
it necessarily exists on an unconscious basis, due to locality and heredity, but the strength
of the community is measured by the degree to which its members become voluntarily loyal to
common purposes.

Outside of early New England the circumstances of settlement of the United States were not
conducive to community development. Most of the country west of the Alleghanies was settled
by individuals who secured their land from the federal government and whose prime allegiance
was to the nation. The federal government was the outgrowth of a revolution for the right of
self-government. Liberty and Freedom were its watchwords and the conditions of life of the
pioneer settlers and their rapid spread over one of the richest natural areas in the world
favored individual independence. It was the natural reaction from the previous domination of
a feudal aristocracy. For over a century our national philosophy has been dominated by a doctrine
of rights, and only recently have we come to perceive that if democracy is to function in a
complex modern civilization, there must be an equal emphasis on duties. This is the significance
of the present interest in instruction in citizenship in our schools.

Most of us hardly appreciate how complete a reversal of the organization of rural life was
involved in this sudden domination of individualism. Primitive agriculture was made possible
by men associating in small village communities for defense and mutual aid. Their whole system
of agriculture, until very modern times, was controlled and directed, not by the individual
or family, but by the community. The typical peasant community of Russia or India was in many
respects but an enlarged family and its economy and social control were based upon the customs
of the family. Indeed, historically the community was the outgrowth of the enlarged family
or clan. It is not surprising, therefore, that the peasant's first loyalty is to his community.
The nation or state is far away and beyond his ken; his patriotism is for his home village.
So Park and Miller in their discussion of immigrants' attitudes say: "The peasant did not know
that he was a Pole; he even denied it. The lord was a Pole; he was a peasant. We have records
showing that members of other immigrant groups realize first in America that they are members
of a nationality: "I had never realized I was an Albanian until my brother came from America
in 1909. He belonged to an Albanian society over here."[98]

Prior to the last century the whole social organization of rural life in the Old World was
built up around the community. The family, the community, and the state were the primary forms
of human association. Obviously, therefore, when families dispersed over the new territory
of the United States with no community ties and with but few contacts with the national government,
there was a lack of that social organization to which the people had been accustomed and through
which their whole mode of life, their customs and moral code had been built up. These forms
of human association, the family, the community, the state, have been built up very slowly
through centuries of human strife and suffering; they represent the experience of the race
as to the best means of adjusting human relationships. Break down an essential feature of the
structure of human society, as was done when American settlers abandoned community life, and
men are compelled to find new methods of meeting their common needs and of maintaining standards
of conduct essential for their common welfare. Had it not been for the influence of the school
and the church, rural life over most of the United States would have inevitably degenerated,
for wherever there is no form of associated control there humanity reverts to the level of
the brute. Human life is what it is because for countless generations mankind has been learning
how to adjust itself through association so that larger opportunity for the individual is secured
through a larger measure of well being for all.

The devotion of the American settler to his family eventually necessitated his association
for advantages which could be secured only through collective action. When he had subdued the
land and established his home, when he commenced to raise farm products for market rather than
primarily for support of the family, when better communication gave more contacts with the
town and city, the farm family developed new wants and interests which could only be satisfied
through association with others. We have already indicated the processes whereby the economic
situation, religious life, public education, the need of local government, and the desire for
recreational facilities, are inevitably drawing the people of the countryside together at the
natural centers into communities. The locality group is again recognized as essential for the
best organization of rural life. But the new rural community is a voluntary group, it is not
determined by common control of the land or by common subjection to a feudal lord as was the
village community of the old world; its people are free to come and go where and when they
will. The community can compel only through the power of public opinion and its success must
depend upon the voluntary loyalty of its people.

Thus the strength and the weakness of the community lies in the loyalty of its people. No community
can permanently succeed whose people associate in it merely for the advantages which they may
gain. There must be a genuine willingness to give as well as to receive, a real desire to do
one's share for the common life. Human association cannot succeed on a basis of organized selfishness.
The joy of family life arises from the fact that each member is devoted to all and is willing
to sacrifice personal interests for the family; without such devotion and sacrifice the true
home is impossible. Just because human nature has arisen through long ages of association,
man finds no permanent satisfaction in pursuing his own selfish interest; his greatest joy
is found in his devotion to others. All human association therefore depends upon loyalty and
the higher and more complex the association, the more essential is the loyalty of its members.
As Miss Follett has well said, "Loyalty means the consciousness of oneness, the full realization
that we succeed or fail, live or die, are saved or damned, together. The only unity or community
is one we have made of ourselves, by ourselves, for ourselves."[99]

Here social science and religion agree upon the ultimate objectives of life. Professor Josiah
Royce has shown[100] that the ideal of Christianity, the Kingdom of God, is but a universal
community, what he calls the "beloved community," which is made possible through the loyalty
of all to love and service. There is a fundamentally religious sanction to community loyalty
and only an essentially religious motive will inspire men to sublimate personal interests in
devotion to the community. Only through loyalty to the highest ideals of community life can
the Kingdom of God be realized on earth. No conceivable cataclysm could make its existence
possible without the voluntary allegiance of mankind, for the Kingdom of God is the kingdom
of love; it can exist only as the minds and hearts of men are devoted to it. Nor can the community
universal, the "beloved community," be achieved except each local community adjusts its own
life to the highest social values. The community movement is but a means whereby the ideals
of democracy and religion may be given concrete expression in a definite locality. Unless these
ideals can be applied to local areas where it is possible to achieve some measure of common
life, of community, there is little probability of their realization in the world at large.

But these higher values of human life cannot be brought about by a mere process of organization.
They require the dynamic of a religious conviction in the hearts of men. The Gospel and life
of Jesus of Nazareth furnish the essential inspiration for that spirit of loyalty without which
all organization is in vain. Professor E. C. Lindeman has ably expressed this in his discussion
of the relation of the Community and Democracy:

      "The most formidable foe of Democracy, however, is the
      confidence which people place in schemes and plans and forms
      of organization. What the social machinery of our day needs
      is spiritual force to provide motive power. The modern
      Community Movement will fail to give Democracy its practical
      expression if it is not motivated by a spiritual dynamic.
      Such a dynamic force was unloosed with the message and life
      of Jesus of Nazareth. He lived his life on the basis of
      certain basic democratic assumptions, and He scientifically
      demonstrated those assumptions. In His eyes all individuals
      were of value; through the social implications of His
      message sin became democratic and the burden of all; in His
      aspirations all humankind were included. He assumed that
      Love would solve more problems than Hatred. He even assumed
      that to have a human enemy was a social anomaly. And He
      believed that religion was essentially a system of behavior
      by which the individual need not be swallowed up in the
      group, but by which the individual must find ultimate
      satisfactions in spiritualizing the group."[101]

Community loyalty will give rise to a true provincialism which will do much to give smaller
communities a satisfactory status and to make them more independent in their standards and
purposes. It is common to deride provincialism, but what we deprecate is the inability of the
provincial to associate with the outside world, and the city man may be as "provincial" as
the farmer from the back hills. True provincialism, on the other hand, is essential to the
progress of civilization. The tendency of city life is toward imitation and reducing life to
a dead level. Eccentricity may be objectionable, but without individuality of persons and communities
life would be stupid and monotonous. There is probably no greater need for strengthening rural
life than a community loyalty which will prevent the unthinking imitation of urban life and
will take justifiable pride in local ideals and achievements. The need of a larger appreciation
of the value of a true provincialism has been well described by Professor Royce in his essay
on "Provincialism":

      "Local spirit, local pride, provincial independence,
      influence the individual man precisely because they appeal
      to his imitative tendencies. But thereby they act so as to
      render him more or less immune in presence of the more
      trivial of the influences that, coming from without his
      community, would otherwise be likely to reduce him to the
      dead level of the customs of the whole nation. A country
      district may seem to a stranger unduly crude in its ways;
      but it does not become wiser in case, under the influence of
      city newspapers and summer boarders, it begins to follow
      city fashions merely for the sake of imitating. Other things
      being equal, it is better in proportion as it remains
      self-possessed,--proud of its own traditions, not unwilling
      indeed to learn, but also quite ready to teach the stranger
      its own wisdom. And in similar fashion provincial pride
      helps the individual man to keep his self-respect even when
      the vast forces that work toward industrial consolidation,
      and toward the effacement of individual initiative, are
      besetting the life at every turn. For a man is in large
      measure what his social consciousness makes him. Give him
      the local community that he loves and cherishes, that he is
      proud to honor and to serve, make his ideal of that
      community lofty,--give him faith in the dignity of his
      province,--and you have given him a power to counteract the
      levelling tendencies of modern civilization."[102]

Community loyalty is largely dependent upon leadership. There is a reciprocal relation between
loyalty and leadership; leaders inspire loyalty and loyalty incites leadership. Thus the amount
of leadership in a community and the willingness of its people to assume leadership are good
indices of community loyalty, and the willingness to work under leaders is its crucial test.
The leader is essential to group activity. Without a leader group activity is difficult or
impossible. If men are to act together effectively some one must be spokesman and director.

Lack of leadership has ever been one of the chief handicaps of rural life as compared with
that of the town and city, and with the growth of organization the need of rural leadership
is increasingly apparent. Until very recently the vocation of agriculture has had but little
call for leadership. Successful farming required strict attention to the work of the farm and
leadership brought no pecuniary advantage to the farmer as it did to the business or professional
man. Furthermore there seems to be an innate desire for equality among farmers and a disinclination
to recognize one of their number as in any degree superior, which discourages the development
of leadership among them. The town and city place a premium on leadership and a position of
leadership gives a status which is coveted; but for the farmer any position of leadership is
a burden or a public duty rather than an opportunity. For this reason the control of government,
education, religion, and all the larger associations of life has been largely in the hands
of urban leaders. This has been inevitable and the lack of representation of the farmers' interests
has been incidental to the nature of his vocation.

Whenever the need of adjustment to new conditions becomes sufficiently acute as to demand action
for the preservation of interests of any group of men, the cause creates leadership; leaders
either come forward or are drafted and the successful leaders survive through a process of
natural selection and receive recognition and support. This is what is now occurring in American
agriculture. New conditions have forced farmers to organize for coöperative marketing and are
necessitating the better organization of the whole social life of rural communities for reasons
which have been previously indicated. With better education and with more contacts with city
life, farmers have come to appreciate that if they are to compete with other industries and
if the rural community is to have a satisfactory standard of living, they must develop their
own leadership and that those who are qualified for leadership cannot be expected to devote
their time to the business interests of their fellows unless they are adequately compensated.
On the other hand, there is gradually developing a new sense of responsibility for assuming
voluntary leadership in community activities, and a larger appreciation of the need of leadership
and the duty of supporting it.

One of the greatest benefits of the Extension Service and the Farm Bureau Movement is the definite
effort to develop local leadership and the large measure in which this has been successful.
The demonstration work and coöperative organizations produce a new type of leader, for he must
be one who is successful in his own farm business and who understands the better methods of
agricultural production and marketing if he is to be able to interest others in them and to
wisely guide the policies of his group. The successful agricultural leader must first of all
be a good farmer, for the basic ideal of his group is the best agricultural production. Not
infrequently an unsuccessful farmer who is a good talker comes into prominence because he is
willing to devote more time to public affairs, but he rarely attains a position of real leadership
in his own community, for being unable to manage his own business he is unable to wisely direct
that of the community.

Unselfish leadership is the highest form of community loyalty and is essential for permanent
community progress. There are obvious satisfactions in leadership, but the true leader must
have a clear vision, a strong purpose, and intense faith in his people, if he is not to become
discouraged by the lack of loyalty in others and their slow response to his ideals. For the
true leader must always be thinking in advance of his community. It is his function to see
what is needed for the common good and then to gradually convince the group, and he must be
willing to withstand the criticism and rebuffs of those who are as yet unwilling to sacrifice
temporary personal advantage for the common good. The real leader will not attempt to do everything
himself but will constantly seek to discover leadership in others and to inspire them with
his own enthusiasm and faith in their ability. Not infrequently this involves the supreme test
of leadership, for the leader must be responsible for the failure of his helpers, and although
he may feel that a given undertaking would be more certain of success were he to assume direct
responsibility for it or place it in the hands of some one who has demonstrated his ability,
yet because of his belief in the distribution of responsibility as essential for a strong community
and because of his faith in the individual and in the undertaking, he takes the risk and lends
his influence to the success of the other. The discovery and training of leadership is one
of the chief concerns of the true leader. Witness the devotion of the Master to the chosen
Twelve and his willingness to leave his whole cause in their hands.

The willingness to assume leadership is the acid test of community loyalty, for only through
the development of a maximum of leadership can the best life of the community be achieved.
Every citizen has some ability which qualifies him to lead some group, however small it may
be, or however humble the cause. Indeed the highest type of community is one in which there
is a conscious direction of community purposes through a body of leadership which is divided
among all its members, so that each feels responsible to the whole community for the success
of his share of the common enterprise and has satisfaction in his contribution to the common
achievement. In last analysis the success of the community rests upon the loyalty of its people
as measured by their willingness to assume leadership in whatsoever capacity may best serve
its interests.

As the farm people of the United States have more contact with towns and cities and as through
better education and means of communication they come into a larger participation in all the
ranges of human culture, they come to realize that only through collective effort can they
secure many of their new desires. Although many associations for special interests attract
their allegiance, their attachment to a locality and their common relation to the existing
center of social activities, give rise to a devotion to the community, for only through the
united effort of all interests can they realize their highest desires. Loyalty to the family
is broadened into loyalty to the community, which finds its incentive and dynamic in devotion
to the family. The family becomes less self-sufficient, but through its wider associations
in the community, the relations of the members of the family to each other assume new and--because
they are more largely voluntary--higher values, and the family attains its highest development
through the larger fulfilment of its members.[103]

The farmer no longer glories in his isolation, or magnifies the virtues of independence, for
new conditions require the coöperation of the whole community if farm life is to be made satisfying.
Willingness and ability to work with others for the common good win social approval. Next to
devotion to the family, loyalty to the community is essential for the realization of the best
possibilities of rural life.

          COMMUNITY SERVICE[104]

    "Strong, that no human soul may pass
      Its warm, encircling unity,
    Wide, to enclose all creed, all class,
      This shall we name, Community;

    "Service shall be that all and each,
      Aroused to know the common good,
    Shall strive, and in the striving reach
      A broader human brotherhood."

FOOTNOTES:

[97] "Balancing Country Life," p. 60. New York, Association Press, 1917.

[98] "Old World Traits Transplanted," p. 145. New York, Harpers, 1921.

[99] Mary P. Follett, "The New State," p. 59.

[100] "The Problem of Christianity."

[101] "The Community," p. 74. New York, Association Press, 1921.

[102] Josiah Royce, "Race Questions and Other American Problems," p. 65.

[103] For "through the process of limitation the family attains a completeness impossible before.
Its members may not realize within it what is in truth the life of the family, for it now retains
alone within its limits that principle of mutual affection of husband, wife, and children which
alone is its exclusive possession."--R. M. Maciver, "Community," 2 ed. p. 242. London, Macmillan
& Co., 1920.

[104] Sarah Collins Fernandis, Survey. February 8, 1919.

APPENDIX A

Constitution of Plainsboro Township, New Jersey.[105]

CONSTITUTION

ARTICLE 1.--NAME

The name of the organization is the Community Association of Plainsboro Township.

ARTICLE 2.--OBJECT

The object of this Association is to carry out the Declaration of Purposes as subscribed to
by the residents of Plainsboro Township, New Jersey.

ARTICLE 3.--MEMBERSHIP

Every resident of Plainsboro Township has the right to membership in this association and to
participation in discussion at its meetings, and every citizen has a vote.

ARTICLE 4.--COMMUNITY COUNCIL

A council of seven members shall be elected to carry out the will of the community as expressed
in open meetings and to act for the community in minor matters and all emergencies. But all
decisions affecting the material welfare should be made in open meetings of the community.

The council shall designate one of its members as president, another as secretary, and another
as treasurer, and these persons shall serve respectively as community president, secretary
and treasurer.

The members elected at the first community meeting shall serve until their successors are elected
at the first meeting in the month of January, and thereafter members shall be elected for one
year and serve until their successors are elected.

ARTICLE 5.--MEETINGS

There shall be an annual meeting in the month of January, ten days' notice of the date being
given by the council.

At this meeting reports shall be made by all township officers of their respective duties.

At this annual meeting, and at all other meetings when requested, the council shall make report
of its proceedings.

A regular community meeting shall be held at a date conforming to the law respecting the nomination
of candidates for Township offices.

Other meetings shall be held upon call of the council, or upon notice signed by ten citizens
and posted at the usual place of meeting ten days prior to the date of meeting.

Twenty voting members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

ARTICLE 6.--DUTIES OF THE COUNCIL

The council shall advise with all township officials in the performance of their duties. It
shall determine and initiate matters concerning health, thrift, home ownership, community protection,
village improvement, coöperation with outside organizations, and all other matters of community
interest.

It shall prepare and propose township and community budgets from time to time for consideration.

It shall suggest a ticket for nominees for township offices, posting the same ten days prior
to meeting of community when nomination shall be made.

It shall also make provision for posting of nominations that may be made by groups of ten or
more citizens.

The council shall faithfully carry out the will of the community as determined in public meeting.

ARTICLE 7.--DEFINING "CITIZENS"

The word "citizen" and "citizens" as used in this constitution, shall be interpreted as referring
to any person and persons who would have the right of suffrage if equal suffrage prevailed.

FOOTNOTE:

[105] As given by Alva Agee in the National Stockman and Farmer, July 26, 1919.

INDEX

  Adams, Bristow, 105

  Adams, H. B., 199

  Adams, Thos., 228

  Advertising, community, 66

  Age of community's people, 31

  Agricultural colleges, 107;
    extension, 108

  Agriculture, goal of, 61;
    in schools, 98-99

  American Farm Bureau Federation, 115

  Americanization, 30

  Amusements, commercial, 158

  Angell, Norman, 70

  Associations and organizations, 212

  Athletic leagues, 162

  Atkeson, T. C., 170

  Atkinson, H. A., 163

  Atwood, M. V., 104

  Automobile, influence of, 41, 50, 157

  Bands, 176

  Banker-farmer, 50

  Belleville, N. Y., 34

  Beloved community, 136

  Bengtson, Amalia M., 147

  Bidwell, P. W., 68

  Boardman, John R., 17

  Boys' and girls' clubs, 119, 163;
    organizations, 162

  Boy Scouts, 163

  Brunner, E. DeS., 136

  Burritt, M. C., 109

  Butterfield, K. L., 2

  Business, farm, community aspects, 58-66

  Camp Fire Girls, 163

  Capital, local, 50

  Cemetery association, 179

  Centralization of buying power, 73

  Chamber of commerce, county, 56

  Childhood, play and, 155

  Child placing, 190;
    welfare boards, 191

  Church and health, 138;
    play, 163;
    recreation, 133;
    federation, 127;
    rural, 121-136;
    social program of, 132

  Cities, 54;
    health, 137

  City, effect of, on farm, 68-70;
    vs. country, 70

  Claghorn, Kate Holladay, 186

  Clock System Rural Index, 231

  Communication, 37-45

  Community activities, 217;
    association, Plainsboro Township, N. J., constitution, 247;
    buildings, 165-167;
    legislation for, 204;
    center, 7

  Community chests, 215;
    churches, 127-129;
    councils, 6, 215, 220;
    defined, 7, 9, 10;
    etymology, 37, 77;
    experience, 65;
    forests, 230;
    incorporation, 204;
    mapping, 6;
    organization, 89, 209-221;
    of extension service, 116;
    people, 29-33;
    planning, 222-233;
    pride, 57, 223;
    school districts, 203;
    score card, 116;
    service, 245;
    vs. home, 24-25

  Competition, dogma of, 49

  Conflict and progress, 48

  Collective bargaining, 74

  Coöperation and community, 77-90;
    business democracy, 86;
    Danish, 87;
    in farm operations, 77;
    strengthens community, 87

  Coöperative buying, 51, 79-81;
    companies, essentials of, 78;
    credit, 81;
    educational League, 98;
    manufacture, 63;
    marketing, 74;
    selling associations, 83;
    stores, 53, 54, 80

  County agent movement, 109;
    boards of public welfare, 191;
    health officer, 146;
    library, 102;
    manager, 202

  Country church, 123;
    life commission, 110;
    weekly, 105

  Dadisman, A. J., 33

  Dane Co., Wisconsin, 30

  Daniels, John, 30

  Darwin, Charles, 49

  Decentralization of industry, 54

  Defectives, 183

  Delinquency, 185-186

  Democracy, 207, 239

  Demonstration agent, 109;
    method, 110

  Denominational rivalry, 127

  Dependent, 181-195

  Dewey, Evelyn, 165

  Disadvantaged, 181

  Doctors, country, 141

  Douglas, H. Paul, 204

  Dramatics, 27, 160

  Dutchess Co., N. Y., health survey, 140

  Education, 91-105;
    objectives of, 95;
    religious, 99

  Educational methods of extension work, 116

  Exchange of goods, 68

  Exploiter, 58

  Extension movement, 107-120;
    service, of schools, 95-96;
    work, methods, 116

  Family, 15;
    life, 23

  Farm bureau, 112-115

  Farmers clubs, 174;
    coöperative demonstration work, 110;
    institutes, 107;
    organizations, 170-174;
    union, 174

  Farming types, effect of, 61

  Farm loan act, 82;
    management, 65

  Federated church, 129

  Feeble-minded, 184

  Fire companies, 177

  Fiske, John, 155, 196

  Fernandis, Sarah Collins, 245

  Follett, M. P., 238

  Frame, Nat T., 116

  French Creek, W. Va., 32

  Gale, Zona, 179

  Galpin, C. J., 6, 135

  Gibbons, C. E., 186

  Gillette, J. M., 62

  Girl Scouts, 163

  Government, rural, 196-208, 214

  Grange, 170;
    buildings, 166

  Grading in marketing, 71-72

  Gross, Karl, 155

  Halsey, Abigail F., 161

  Harvey, Mrs. M. T., 165

  Hatch Act, 107

  Hayes, A. W., 93

  Health centers, 151;
    community, 137-152;
    economics of, 139;
    farmers attitude on, 138;
    officials, 145;
    surveys, 140, 143, 147

  Hieronymous, R. E., 234

  High schools, 94;
    Danish, 100

  History, community, 33;
    local, 34-35

  Hoag, Emily F., 34

  Home bureau, 118

  Home bureau creed, 119;
    demonstration work, 118;
    economics, 24;
    farm, 14-28;
    play in the, 156;
    project, 25, 98-99

  Hospitals, 149-150

  Husbandman, 59

  Industries in villages, 54

  Insects, a community problem, 64

  Justice of peace, 188

  Juvenile courts, 188

  Kidd, Benj., 27

  Kile, O. M., 115

  Kingdom of God, 135, 238

  Kirkwood, W. P., 103

  Knapp, S. A., 109

  Kolb, J. H., 30, 91

  Kropotkin, P., 49

  Leadership, 117, 218, 241;
    church, 126

  Lee, Joseph, 155

  Lewis, Sinclair, 101, 222

  Library, 45;
    public, 100

  Lindeman, E. C., 169, 220, 239

  Lodges, 174

  Lowell, G. J., 172

  Loyalty, community, 234-245

  Lumsden, L. L., 144

  Maciver, R. M., 245

  Macklin, Th., 63, 85

  Mann, A. R., 194

  Markets, effect of, 67-76

  Martin, O. B., 109

  Maternal mortality, 142

  Mormons, 121, 197

  Morrill Act, 107

  Moving pictures, 45, 158

  Nason, W. C., 167

  Nasmyth, George, 49

  Nationalities, 29

  Neglected, the, 186

  Neighborhood areas, 91;
    defined, 9;
    social center, 92

  Newspaper, country, 103-106

  Nourse, E. G., 68

  Numbering farms, 231

  Nurses, rural, 147-149

  Organization, rural, difficulty of, 44

  Organizations of rural community, 169-180

  Orchestras, 177

  Overchurching, 125

  Pageants, 36, 161

  Parent-teachers associations, 97-98

  Parks, 230

  Park, R. E., and Miller, 236

  Patrons of Husbandry, 170

  Personality and play, 154

  Physical education, 162

  Plainsboro, N. J., incorporation, 205, 247

  Play and recreation, 153-168;
    festivals, 156

  Plunkett, Sir Horace, 12, 87, 88

  Poe, Clarence, 81, 202

  Poor officer, 187

  Population, changes, 32;
    density of, 31

  Postal service, 43

  Poverty, 181, 182

  Powell, G. Harold, 84

  Pratt, Edwin A., 80

  Provincialism, value of, 240

  Public speaking contest, 96

  Public welfare boards, 191

  Race problems, 29, 30

  Railroad, effect of, 39;
    stations, 224

  Rankin, W. S., 145

  Recreation, 153-168;
    church and, 133

  Red Cross, 151;
    home service, 134, 191-192;
    nurse, 149

  Religious life of the community, 121-136;
    education, 99, 130

  Renville Co., Minn., health survey, 147

  Roads, 40, 225, 227

  Rochdale system, 79

  Rodent control by communities, 64

  Royce, Josiah, 238, 240

  Rural organization, 89;
    planning committees, 230, 231

  Russell, Geo. Wm. ("A.E."), 63, 75, 89

  Ryder, E. H., 202

  Sandy Spring, Md., 35

  Sanitation, 143-144

  School, 91-100;
    consolidation, 93-95;
    nurses, 147;
    play in the, 161;
    social center, 96, 165

  Settlement of community, 38

  Shaw, Albert, 197

  Sims, N. L., 218

  Smith-Gordon and Staples, 88

  Smith-Hughes Act, 94

  Smith-Lever Act, 111

  Smith, Ruby Green, 119

  Social center, 8;
    organization, 209;
    work, agencies for rural, 187;
    of minister, 134

  South, community in the, 4, 10

  Specialization in agriculture, 61-63

  Standardization in marketing, 71

  Stewart, C. L., 60

  Stores, country, 50-52

  Sunday school, 123-124, 130-131

  Telephone, 43

  Tenancy, 59

  Tompkins Co., N. Y., churches, 125

  Town planning, 223

  Township, 196

  Transportation, effect of, 39, 67

  Union church, 128

  Values of rural life, 16, 17, 61

  Vienna, 69

  Village communities, 3, 235

  Village and farm, 46-57

  Village, incorporated, 199;
    plan, 224;
    square, 225

  Visiting teacher, 189

  Waugh, Frank A., 223

  Warren, G. F., 65

  Wilson, Warren H., 58, 121

  Woman, farm, position of, 19-22

  Woman's Christian Temperance Union, 178

  Young Men's Christian Association, 162

  Young Woman's Christian Association, 162

THE FARMER'S BOOKSHELF

Edited by

KENYON L. BUTTERFIELD THE FARMER'S BOOKSHELF

Edited by DR. KENYON L. BUTTERFIELD, President, Massachusetts College of Agriculture. Each
$1.25, by mail, $1.35.

The changing conditions and new problems in rural life are known in a general way through newspaper
and magazine articles, but few books have appeared which show what a force the farmer is and
will continue to be in national and international life. This series is to contain books by
men who know the farmer as well as the subject; while written primarily for rural leaders and
progressive farmers they are interesting also to anyone who wants to keep up with contemporary
history.

THE GRANGE MASTER AND THE GRANGE LECTURER

By JENNIE BUELL

An account of the origin and ideals of the Grange and of what this organization has done and
is doing. It also gives practical suggestions for future development. Miss Buell had been active
in the work of the Grange for 36 years. From 1890 to 1908 she was State Secretary of the Grange
in Michigan, then lecturer until 1915, when she was again elected State Secretary.

"We have never read a book on The Grange which contains more practical information. Every member
should read this book, and we should like to have it read by town and city people, too."--Rural
New Yorker.

THE LABOR MOVEMENT AND THE FARMER

By HAYES ROBBINS

The labor question of factory and town crowds in upon the farm on every side--in the price
of almost everything the farmer buys, in the freight he pays, in the higher wages and shorter
hours he must bid against for help. This book gives us the labor movement as it actually is,
and what it proposes, as it affects especially the farmer.

For twenty years Mr. Robbins has been studying industrial problems. At one time he was connected
with the New York Central Railroad, and in 1905 he undertook organization of the Civic Federation
of New England, devoted to the betterment of relations between employers and employees. During
the war he assisted in the organization of the Committee on Labor Advisory Commission to the
Council of National Defense.

THE COUNTY AGENT AND THE FARM BUREAU

By MAURICE CHASE BURRITT, Vice-Director Extension Department, New York State College of Agriculture,
Cornell University.

Despite its prominence during the past few years, the county agent farm bureau movement is
not fully understood or appreciated either by the general public or by farmers themselves.
This book describes in detail the work of the county agent and farm bureau and gives an historical
sketch of their development.

THE FARMER AND HIS COMMUNITY

By DWIGHT SANDERSON, Head of the Department of Rural Social Organization, New York College
of Agriculture, Cornell University.

The rapid spread of the rural community idea, due in part to the recent work of county agents
and county farm bureaus, calls for a book which describes in plain terms just what this idea
means and just how important it is in rural progress. This book does these two things in a
way that promises to make it an important contribution to the farmers' thinking.

THE AGRICULTURAL BLOC

By HONORABLE ARTHUR CAPPER

An authoritative review of the difficulties and economic changes that led to the present situation
in the United States Senate and an account of the present program among agricultural leaders.
Senator Capper is the recognized leader and proper spokesman of this movement.

IN PRESS

COUNTRY PLANNING

By FRANK A. WAUGH, Head of the Division of Horticulture and Professor of Landscape Gardening,
Massachusetts Agricultural College.

Country Planning is not a fad involving the expenditure of sums of money for useless "frills"
but is a practical means of getting better results with money that must be expended in such
changes as disposition of lands, the location of roads, the furnishing of playgrounds, forests,
and school grounds, etc. How these changes may be wisely directed is told in this book.

IN PREPARATION

OUR SOIL WEALTH

By DR. J. G. LIPMAN, Director of the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station.

THE FARMER AND THE WORLD'S FOOD

By A. E. CANCE

THE FARM MOVEMENT IN CANADA

By N. P. LAMBERT

    +------------------------------------------------+
    | Transcriber's Note:                            |
    |                                                |
    | Typographical errors corrected in the text:    |
    |                                                |
    | Page    8  necessarly changed to necessarily   |
    | Page   48  parisitic changed to parasitic      |
    | Page   52  enterprisng changed to enterprising |
    | Page   85  considerbly changed to considerably |
    | Page  183  hispitals changed to hospitals      |
    | Page  214  dominaton changed to domination     |
    | Page  251  Bengston changed to Bengtson        |
    +------------------------------------------------+