BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE

NO. CCCXXXI. MAY, 1843. VOL. LIII.

CONTENTS. CONCLUSION
    LEAP-YEAR. A TALE
    THE BATTLE OF THE BLOCKS. THE PAVING QUESTION
    POEMS AND BALLADS OF SCHILLER.--No. VIII.
    NATURAL HISTORY OF SALMON AND SEA-TROUT
    CALEB STUKELY. PART THE LAST
    COMMERCIAL POLICY. SPAIN

DUMAS IN ITALY.

    [Souvenirs de Voyage en Italie, par ALEXANDRE DUMAS. 5 vols. duod.]

France has lately sent forth her poets in great force, to travel, and to write travels. Delamartine,
Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas, and others, have been forth in the high-ways and the high-seas,
observing, portraying, poetizing, romancing. The last-mentioned of these, M. Dumas, a dramatist
very ingenious in the construction of plots, and one who tells a story admirably, has travelled
quite in character. There is a dramatic air thrown over all his proceedings, things happen
as pat as if they had been rehearsed, and he blends the novelist and tourist together after
a very bold and original fashion. It is a new method of writing travels that he has hit upon,
and we recommend it to the notice of our countrymen or countrywomen, who start from home with
the fixed idea, happen what may, of inditing a book. He does not depend altogether upon the
incidents of the road, or the raptures of sight-seeing, or any odd fantasy that buildings or
scenery may be kind enough to suggest: he provides himself with full half of his materials
before he starts, in the shape of historical anecdote and romantic story, which he distributes
as he goes along. A better plan for an amusing book could not be devised. Your mere tourist,
it must be confessed, however frivolous he submits for our entertainment to become, grows heavy
on our hands; that rapid and incessant change of scene which is kindly meant to enliven our
spirits, becomes itself wearisome, and we long for some resting-place, even though it should
be obtained by that most illegitimate method of closing the volume. On the other hand, a teller
of tales has always felt the want of some enduring thread--though, as some one says in a like
emergency, it be only packthread--on which his tales may be strung--something to fill up the
pauses, and prevent the utter solution of continuity between tale and tale--something that
gives the narrator a reasonable plea for going on again, and makes the telling another story
an indispensable duty upon his part, and the listening to it a corresponding obligation upon
ours; and ever since the time when that young lady of unpronounceable and unrememberable name
told the One Thousand and One Tales, telling a fragment every morning to keep her head upon
her shoulders, there has been devised many a strange expedient for this purpose. Now, M. Dumas
has contrived, by uniting the two characters of tourist and novelist, to make them act as reliefs
to each other. Whilst he shares with other travellers the daily adventures of the road--the
journey, the sight, and the dinner--he is not compelled to be always moving; he can pause when
he pleases, and, like the fableur of olden times, sitting down in the market-place, in the
public square, at the corner of some column or statue, he narrates his history or his romance.
Then, the story told, up starts the busy and provident tourist; lo! the voiture is waiting
for him at the hotel; in he leaps, and we with him, and off we rattle through other scenes,
and to other cities. He has a track in space to which he is bound; we recognize the necessity
that he should proceed thereon; but he can diverge at pleasure through all time, bear us off
into what age he pleases, make us utterly oblivious of the present, and lap us in the Elysium
of a good story.

With a book written palpably for the sole and most amiable purpose of amusement, and succeeding
in this purpose, how should we deal? How but receive it with a passive acquiescence equally
amiable, content solely to be amused, and giving all severer criticism--to him who to his other
merits may add, if he pleases, that of being the first critic. Most especially let us not be
carping and questioning as to the how far, or what precisely, we are to set down for true.
It is all true--it is all fiction; the artist cannot choose but see things in an artistical
form; what ought not to be there drops from his field of vision. We are not poring through
a microscope, or through a telescope, to discover new truths; we are looking at the old landscape
through coloured glasses, blue, or black, or roseate, as the occasion may require. And here
let us note a favourable contrast between our dramatic tourist, bold in conception, free in
execution, and those compatriots of our own, authors and authoresses, who write travels merely
because they are artists in ink, yet without any adequate notion of the duties and privileges
of such an artist.

When a writer has got a name, the first rational use to make of the charming possession is
to get astride of it, as a witch upon her broomstick, and whisk and scamper over half the kingdoms
of the earth. Talk of bills of exchange!--letters of credit!--we can put our name to a whole
book, and it will pass--it will pass. The idea is good--quite worthy of our commercial genius--and
to us its origin, we believe, is due; but here, as in so many other cases, the Frenchman has
given the idea its full development. Keeping steadily in view the object of his book, which
is--first, amusement--secondly, amusement--thirdly, amusement; he adapts his means consistently
to his end. Does he want a dialogue?--he writes one: a story?--he invents one: a description?--he
takes his hint from nature, and is grateful--the more grateful, because he knows that a hint
to the wise is sufficient. It is the description only which the reader will be concerned with;
what has he to do with the object? That is the merely traveller's affair. Now, your English
tourists have always a residue of scruple about them which balks their genius. Not satisfied
with pleasing, they aspire to be believed; are almost angry if their anecdote is not credited;
content themselves with adding graces, giving a turn, trimming and decorating--cannot build
a structure boldly from the bare earth. This necessity of finding a certain straw for their
bricks, which must be picked up by the roadside, not only impedes the work of authorship, but
must add greatly to their personal discomfort throughout the whole of their travels. They are
in perpetual chase of something for the book. They bag an incident with as much glee as a sportsman
his first bird in September. They are out on pleasure, but manifestly they have their task
too; it is not quite holiday, only half-holiday with them. The prospect or the picture gives
no pleasure till it has suggested the appropriate expression of enthusiasm, which, once safely
deposited in the note-book, the enthusiasm itself can be quietly indulged in, or permitted
to evaporate. At the dinner-table, even when champagne is circulating, if a jest or a story
falls flat, they see with an Aristotelian precision the cause of its failure, and how an additional
touch, or a more auspicious moment, would have procured for it a better fate; they stop to
pick it up, they clean it, they revolve the chapter and the page to which it shall lend its
lustre. Nay, it is noticeable, that without much labour from the polisher, many a dull thing
in conversation has made a good thing in print; the conditions of success are so different.
Now, from all such toils and perplexities M. Dumas is evidently free; free as the wildest Oxonian
who flies abroad in the mere wanton prodigality of spirits and of purse. His book is made,
or can be made, when he chooses: fortune favours the bold, and incidents will always dispose
themselves dramatically to the dramatist.

Our traveller opens his campaign at Nice. It may be observed that M. Dumas cannot be accused,
like the present minister of his country, of any partiality to the English; if the mortifying
truth must be told, he has no love of us at all; to which humour, so long as he delivers himself
of it with any wit or pleasantry, he is heartily welcome. Our first extract will be thought,
perhaps, to taste of this humour; but we quote it for the absurd proof it affords of the manner
in which we English have overflooded some portions of the Continent:--

    "As to the inhabitants of Nice, every traveller is to them an
    Englishman. Every foreigner they see, without distinction of
    complexion, hair, beard, dress, age, or sex, has, in their
    imagination, arrived from a certain mysterious city lost in the
    midst of fogs, where the inhabitants have heard of the sun only
    from tradition, where the orange and the pine-apple are unknown
    except by name, where there is no ripe fruit but baked apples,
    and which is called London.

    "Whilst I was at the York Hotel, a carriage drawn by post
    horses drove up; and, soon after, the master of the hotel
    entering into my room, I asked him who were his new arrivals.

    "'Sono certi Inglesi,' he answered, 'ma non saprei dire se
    sono Francesi o Tedeschi. Some English, but I cannot say
    whether French or German.'"--Vol. i. p. 9.

The little town of Monaco is his next resting-place. This town, which is now under the government
of the King of Sardinia, was at one time an independent principality; and M. Dumas gives a
lively sketch of the vicissitudes which the little state has undergone, mimicking, as it has,
the movements of great monarchies, and being capable of boasting even of its revolution and
its republic. During the reign of Louis XIV. the territory of Monaco gave the title of prince
to a certain Honore III., who was under the protection of the Grand Monarque.

    "The marriage of this Prince of Monaco," says our annalist,
    "was not happy. One fine morning his spouse, who was the same
    beautiful and gay Duchess de Valentinois so well known in the
    scandalous chronicles of that age, found herself at one step
    out of the states of her lord and sovereign. She took refuge at
    Paris. Desertion was not all. The prince soon learned that he
    was as unfortunate as a husband can be.

    "At that epoch, calamities of this description were only
    laughed at; but the Prince of Monaco was, as the duchess used
    to say, a strange man, and he took offence. He got information
    from time to time of the successive gallants whom his wife
    thought fit to honour, and he hanged them in effigy, one after
    the other, in the front court of his palace. The court was soon
    full, and the executions bordered on the high road;
    nevertheless, the prince relented not, but continued always to
    hang. The report of these executions reached Versailles; Louis
    XIV. was, in his turn, displeased, and counselled the prince to
    be more lenient in his punishments. He of Monaco answered that,
    being a sovereign prince, he had undoubtedly the right of pit
    and gallows on his own domain, and that surely he might hang as
    many men of straw as he pleased.

    "The affair bred so much scandal, that it was thought prudent
    to send the duchess back to her husband. He, to make her
    punishment the more complete, had resolved that she should, on
    her return, pass before this row of executed effigies. But the
    dowager Princess of Monaco prevailed upon her son to forego
    this ingenious revenge, and a bonfire was made of all the
    scarecrows. 'It was,' said Madame de Sevigné, 'the torch of
    their second nuptials.' ...

    "A successor of this prince, Honore IV., was reigning
    tranquilly in his little dominions when the French Revolution
    broke out. The Monacites watched its successive phases with a
    peculiar attention, and when the republic was finally
    proclaimed at Paris, they took advantage of Honore's absence,
    who was gone from home, and not known where, armed themselves
    with whatever came to hand, marched to the palace, took it by
    assault, and commenced plundering the cellars, which might
    contain from twelve to fifteen thousand bottles of wine. Two
    hours after, the eight thousand subjects of the Prince of
    Monaco were drunk.

    "Now, at this first trial, they found liberty was an excellent
    thing, and they resolved to constitute themselves forthwith
    into a republic. But it seemed that Monaco was far too
    extensive a territory to proclaim itself, after the example of
    France, a republic one and indivisible; so the wise men of the
    country, who had already formed themselves into a national
    assembly, came to the conclusion that Monaco should rather
    follow the example of America, and give birth to a federal
    republic. The fundamental laws of the new constitution were
    then discussed and determined by Monaco and Mantone, who united
    themselves for life and death. There was a third village called
    Rocco-Bruno: it was decided that it should belong half to the
    one and half to the other. Rocco-Bruno murmured: it had aspired
    to independence, and a place in the federation; but Monaco and
    Mantone smiled at so arrogant a pretension. Rocco-Bruno was not
    the strongest, and was reduced to silence: from that moment,
    however, Rocco-Bruno was marked out to the two national
    conventions as a focus of sedition. The republic was finally
    proclaimed under the title of the Republic of Monaco.

    "The Monacites next looked abroad upon the world for allies.
    There were two nations, equally enlightened with themselves, to
    whom they could extend the hand of fellowship--the American and
    the French. Geographical position decided in favour of the
    latter. The republic of Monaco sent three deputies to the
    National Convention of France to proffer and demand alliance.
    The National Convention was in a moment of perfect good-humour:
    it received the deputies most politely, and invited them to
    call the next morning for the treaty they desired.

    "The treaty was prepared that very day. It was not, indeed, a
    very lengthy document: it consisted of the two following
    articles:--

    "'Art. 1. There shall be peace and alliance between the French
    Republic and the Republic of Monaco.

    "'Art. 2. The French Republic is delighted with having made the
    acquaintance of the Republic of Monaco.'

    "This treaty was placed next morning in the hands of the
    ambassadors, who departed highly gratified. Three months
    afterwards the French Republic had thrown its lion's paw on its
    dear acquaintance, the Republic of Monaco."--P. 14.

From Monaco our traveller proceeds to Geneva; from Geneva, by water, to Livorno, (Anglicé,
Leghorn.) Now there is little or nothing to be seen at Livorno. There is, in the place della
Darnesa, a solitary statue of Ferdinand I., some time cardinal, and afterwards Grand-Duke of
Florence. M. Dumas bethinks him to tell us the principal incident in the life of this Ferdinand;
but then this again is connected with the history of Bianca Capello, so that he must commence
with her adventures. The name of Bianca Capello figures just now on the title-page of one of
Messrs Colburn's and Bentley's last and newest. Those who have read the novel, and those who,
like ourselves, have seen only the title, may be equally willing to hear the story of this
high-spirited dame told in the terse, rapid manner--brief, but full of detail--of Dumas. We
cannot give the whole of it in the words of M. Dumas; the extract would be too long; we must
get over a portion of the ground in the shortest manner possible.

    "It was towards the end of the reign of Cosmo the Great, about
    the commencement of the year 1563, that a young man named
    Pietro Bonaventuri, the issue of a family respectable, though
    poor, left Florence to seek his fortune in Venice. An uncle who
    bore the same name as himself, and who had lived in the latter
    city for twenty years, recommended him to the bank of the
    Salviati, of which he himself was one of the managers. The
    youth was received in the capacity of clerk.

    "Opposite the bank of the Salviati lived a rich Venetian
    nobleman, head of the house of the Capelli. He had one son and
    one daughter, but not by his wife then living, who, in
    consequence, was stepmother to his children. With the son, our
    narrative is not concerned; the daughter, Bianca Capello, was a
    charming girl of the age of fifteen or sixteen, of a pale
    complexion, on which the blood, at every emotion, would appear,
    and pass like a roseate cloud; her hair, of that rich flaxen
    which Raphael has made so beautiful; her eyes dark and full of
    lustre, her figure slight and flexile, but of that flexibility
    which denotes no weakness, but force of character; prompt, as
    another Juliet, to love, and waiting only till some Romeo
    should cross her path, to say, like the maid of Verona--'I will
    be to thee or to the tomb!'

    "She saw Pietro Bonaventuri: the window of his chamber looked
    out upon hers; they exchanged glances, signs, promises of love.
    Arrived at this point, the distance from each other was their
    sole obstacle: this obstacle Bianca was the first to overcome.

    "Each night, when all had retired to rest in the house of the
    Salviati, when the nurse who had reared Bianca, had betaken
    herself to the next chamber, and the young girl, standing
    listening against the partition, had assured herself that this
    last Argus was asleep, she threw over her shoulders a dark
    cloak to be the less visible in the night, descended on tiptoe,
    and light as a shadow, the marble stairs of the paternal
    palace, unbarred the gate, and crossed the street. On the
    threshold of the opposite door, her lover was standing to
    receive her; and the two together, with stifled breath and
    silent caresses, ascended the stairs that led to the little
    chamber of Pietro. Before the break of day, Bianca retired in
    the same manner to her own room, where her nurse found her in
    the morning, in a sleep as profound at least as the sleep of
    innocence.

    "One night whilst our Juliet was with her Romeo, a baker's boy,
    who had just been to light his oven in the neighbourhood, saw a
    gate half open, and thought he did good service by closing it.
    Ten minutes afterwards, Bianca descended, and saw that it was
    impossible to re-enter her father's house.

    "Bianca was one of those energetic spirits whose resolutions
    are taken at once, and for ever. She saw that her whole future
    destiny was changed by this one accident, and she accepted
    without hesitation the new life which this accident had imposed
    on her. She re-ascended to her lover, related what had
    happened, demanded of him if he was ready to sacrifice all for
    her as she was for him, and proposed to take advantage of the
    two hours of the night which still remained to them, to quit
    Venice and conceal themselves from the pursuit of her parents.
    Pietro was true--he adopted immediately the proposal; they
    stepped into a gondola, and fled towards Florence.

    "Arrived at Florence, they took refuge with the father of
    Pietro--Bonaventuri the elder, who with his wife had a small
    lodging in the second floor in the place of St Mark. Strange!
    it is with poor parents that the children are so especially
    welcome. They received their son and their new daughter with
    open arms. Their servant was dismissed, both for economy and
    the better preservation of their secret. The good mother
    charged herself with the care of the little household. Bianca,
    whose white hands had been taught no such useful duties, set
    about working the most charming embroidery. The father, who
    earned his living as a copyist for public offices, gave out
    that he had retained a clerk, and took home a double portion of
    papers. All were employed, and the little family contrived to
    live.

    "Meanwhile, it will be easily imagined how great a commotion
    the flight of Bianca occasioned in the palace of the noble
    Capello. During the whole of the first day they made no
    pursuit, for they still, though with much anxiety, expected her
    return. The day passed, however, without any news of the
    fugitive; the flight, on the same morning, of Pietro
    Bonaventuri was next reported; a thousand little incidents
    which attracted no notice at the time were now brought back to
    recollection, and the result of the whole was the clear
    conviction that they had fled together. The influence of the
    Capelli was such that the case was brought immediately before
    the Council of Ten; and Pietro Bonaventuri was placed under the
    ban of the Republic. The sentence of this tribunal was made
    known to the government of Florence; and this government
    authorized the Capelli, or the officers of the Venetian
    Republic, to make all necessary search, not only in Florence,
    but throughout all Tuscany. The search, however was unavailing.
    Each one of the parties felt too great an interest in keeping
    their secret, and Bianca herself never stirred from the
    apartment.

    "Three months passed in this melancholy concealment, yet she
    who had been habituated from infancy to all the indulgences of
    wealth, never once breathed a word of complaint. Her only
    recreation was to look down into the street through the sloping
    blind. Now, amongst those who frequently passed across the
    Place of St Mark was the young grand-duke, who went every other
    day to see his father at his castle of Petraja. Francesco was
    young, gallant, and handsome; but it was not his youth or
    beauty that preoccupied the thoughts of Bianca, it was the idea
    that this prince, as powerful as he seemed gracious, might, by
    one word, raise the ban from Pietro Bonaventuri, and restore
    both him and herself to freedom. It was this idea which kindled
    a double lustre in the eyes of the young Venetian, as she
    punctually at the hour of his passing, ran to the window, and
    sloped the jalousie. One day, the prince happening to look up
    as he passed, met the enkindled glance of his fair observer.
    Bianca hastily retired."

What immediately follows need not be told at any length. Francesco was enamoured: he obtained
an interview. Bianca released and enriched her lover, but became the mistress of the young
duke. Pietro was quite content with this arrangement; he had himself given the first example
of inconstancy. He entered upon a career of riotous pleasure, which ended in a violent death.

Francesco, in obedience to his father, married a princess of the house of Austria; but Bianca
still retained her influence. His wife, who had been much afflicted by this preference of her
rival, died, and the repentant widower swore never again to see Bianca. He kept the oath for
four months; but she placed herself as if by accident in his path, and all her old power was
revived. Francesco, by the death of his father, became the reigning Duke of Tuscany, and Bianca
Capello, his wife and duchess. And now we arrive at that part of the story in which Ferdinand,
the brother of Francesco, and whose statue at Livorno led to this history, enters on the scene.

    "About three years after their nuptials, the young Archduke,
    the issue of Francesco's previous marriage, died, leaving the
    ducal throne of Tuscany without direct heir; failing which the
    Cardinal Ferdinand would become Grand-duke at the death of his
    brother. Now Bianca had given to Francesco one son; but,
    besides that he was born before their marriage, and therefore
    incapable of succeeding, the rumour had been spread that he was
    supposititious. The dukedom, therefore, would descend to the
    Cardinal if the Grand-duchess should have no other child; and
    Francesco himself had begun to despair of this happiness, when
    Bianca announced to him a second pregnancy.

    "This time the Cardinal resolved to watch himself the
    proceedings of his dear sister-in-law, lest he should be the
    dupe of some new manoeuvre. He began, therefore, to cultivate
    in an especial manner the friendship of his brother, declaring,
    that the present condition of the Grand-duchess proved to him
    how false had been the rumours spread touching her former
    accouchement. Francesco, happy to find his brother in this
    disposition, returned his advances with the utmost cordiality.
    The Cardinal availed himself of this friendly feeling to come
    and install himself in the Palace Pitti.

    "The arrival of the Cardinal was by no means agreeable to
    Bianca, who was not at all deceived as to the true cause of
    this fraternal visit. She knew that, in the Cardinal, she had a
    spy upon her at every moment. The spy, however, could detect
    nothing that savoured of imposture. If her condition was
    feigned, the comedy was admirably played. The Cardinal began to
    think that his suspicions were unjust. Nevertheless, if there
    were craft, the game he determined should be played out with
    equal skill upon his side.

    "The eventful day arrived. The Cardinal could not remain in the
    chamber of Bianca, but he stationed himself in an antechamber,
    through which every one who visited her must necessarily pass.
    There he began to say his breviary, walking solemnly to and
    fro. After praying and promenading thus for about an hour, a
    message was brought to him from the invalid, requesting him to
    go into another room, as his tread disturbed her. 'Let her
    attend to her affairs, and I to mine,' was the only answer he
    gave, and the Cardinal recommenced his walk and his prayer.

    "Soon after this the confessor of the Grand-duchess entered--a
    Capuchin, in a long robe. The Cardinal went up to him, and
    embraced him in his arms, recommending his sister most
    affectionately to his pious care. While embracing the good
    monk, the Cardinal felt, or thought he felt, something strange
    in his long sleeve. He groped under the Capuchin's robe, and
    drew out--a fine boy.

    "'My dear brother,' said the Cardinal, 'I am now more tranquil.
    I am sure, at least, that my dear sister-in-law will not die
    this time in childbirth.'

    "The monk saw that all that remained was to avoid, if possible,
    the scandal; and he asked the Cardinal himself what he should
    do. The Cardinal told him to enter into the chamber of the
    Duchess, whisper to her what had happened, and, as she acted,
    so would he act. Silence should purchase silence; clamour,
    clamour.

    "Bianca saw that she must renounce at present her design to
    give a successor to the ducal crown; she submitted to a
    miscarriage. The Cardinal, on his side, kept his word, and the
    unsuccessful attempt was never betrayed.

    "A few months passed on; there was an uninterrupted harmony
    between the brothers, and Francesco invited the Cardinal, who
    was fond of field-sports, to pass some time with him at a
    country palace, famous for its preserves Of game.

    "On the very day of his arrival, Bianca, who knew that the
    Cardinal was partial to a certain description of tart,
    bethought her to prepare one for him herself. This flattering
    attention on the part of his sister-in-law was hinted to him by
    Francesco, who mentioned it as a new proof of the Duchess's
    amiability, but, as he had no great confidence in his
    reconciliation with Bianca, it was an intimation which caused
    him not a little disquietude. Fortunately, the Cardinal
    possessed an opal, given to him by Pope Sixtus V., which had
    the property of growing dim the moment it approached any
    poisonous substance. He did not fail to make trial of it on the
    tart prepared by Bianca. The opal grew dim and tarnished. The
    Cardinal said, with an assumed air of carelessness, that, on
    consideration, he would not eat to-day of the tart. The Duke
    pressed him; but not being able to prevail--'Well,' said he,
    'since Ferdinand will not eat of his favourite dish, it shall
    not be said that a Grand-duchess had turned confectioner for
    nothing--I will eat of it.' And he helped himself to a piece of
    the tart.

    "Bianca was in the act of bending forward to prevent him--but
    suddenly paused. Her position was horrible. She must either
    avow her crime, or suffer her husband to poison himself. She
    cast a quick retrospective glance along her past life; she saw
    that she had exhausted all the pleasures of the world, and
    attained to all its glories; her decision was rapid--as rapid
    as on that day when she had fled from Venice with Pietro. She
    also cut off a piece from the tart, and extending her hand to
    her husband, she smiled, and, with her other hand, eat of the
    poisoned dish.

    "On the morrow, Francesco and Bianca were dead. A physician
    opened their bodies by order of Ferdinand, and declared that
    they had fallen victims to a malignant fever. Three days after,
    the Cardinal threw down his red hat, and ascended the ducal
    throne."--P. 63.

But presto! Mr Dumas is traveller as well as annalist He must leave the Middle Ages to themselves;
the present moment has its exigences; he must look to himself and his baggage. He had great
difficulty in doing this on his landing at the Port of Livorno; and now, on his departure,
he is beset with vetturini. Let us recur to some of these miseries of travel, which may at
least claim a wide sympathy, for most of us are familiar with them. It is not necessary even
to leave our own island to find how great an embarrassment too much help may prove, but we
certainly have nothing in our own experience quite equal to the lively picture of M. Dumas:--

    "I have visited many ports--I have traversed many towns--I have
    contended with the porters of Avignon--with the facchini of
    Malta, and with the innkeepers of Messina, but I never entered
    so villanous a place as Livorno.

    "In every other country of the world there is some possibility
    of defending your baggage, of bargaining for its transport to
    the hotel; and if no treaty can be made, there is at least
    liberty given to load your own shoulders with it, and be your
    own porter. Nothing of this kind at Livorno. The vessel which
    brings you has not yet touched the shore when it is boarded;
    commissionnaires absolutely rain upon you, you know not
    whence; they spring upon the jetty, throw themselves on the
    nearest vessel, and glide down upon you from the rigging.
    Seeing that your little craft is in danger of being capsized by
    their numbers, you think of self-preservation, and grasping
    hold of some green and slimy steps, you cling there, like
    Crusoe to his rock; then, after many efforts, having lost your
    hat, and scarified your knees, and torn your nails, you at
    length stand on the pier. So much for yourself. As to your
    baggage, it has been already divided into as many lots as there
    are articles; you have a porter for your portmanteau, a porter
    for your dressing-case, a porter for your hat-box, a porter for
    your umbrella, a porter for your cane. If there are two of you,
    that makes ten porters; if three, fifteen; as we were four, we
    had twenty. A twenty-first wished to take Milord (the dog,) but
    Milord, who permits no liberties, took him by the calf, and we
    had to pinch his tail till he consented to unlock his teeth.
    The porter followed us, crying that the dog had lamed him, and
    that he would compel us to make compensation. The people rose
    in tumult; and we arrived at the Pension Suisse with twenty
    porters before us, and a rabble of two hundred behind.

    "It cost us forty francs for our portmanteaus, umbrellas, and
    canes, and ten francs for the bitten leg.[1] In all, fifty
    francs for about fifty steps."--P. 59.

    [1] This was not the only case of compensation made out against
    this travelling companion. "Milord," says our tourist, "in his
    quality of bulldog, was so great a destroyer of cats, that we
    judged it wise to take some precautions against overcharges in
    this particular. Therefore, on our departure from Genoa, in
    which town Milord had commenced his practices upon the feline
    race of Italy, we enquired the price of a full-grown,
    well-conditioned cat, and it was agreed on all hands that a cat
    of the ordinary species--grey, white, and tortoiseshell--was
    worth two pauls--(learned cats, Angora cats, cats with two
    heads or three tails, are not, of course, included in this
    tariff.) Paying down this sum for two several Genoese cats
    which had been just strangled by our friend, we demanded a
    legal receipt, and we added successively other receipts of the
    same kind, so that this document became at length an
    indisputable authority for the price of cats throughout all
    Italy. As often as Milord committed a new assassination, and
    the attempt was made to extort from us more than two pauls as
    the price of blood, we drew this document from our pocket, and
    proved beyond a cavil that two pauls was what we were
    accustomed to pay on such occasions, and obstinate indeed must
    have been the man or woman who did not yield to such a weight
    of precedent."

This was on his landing at Livorno: on his departure he gives us an account, equally graphic,
of the vetturini:--

    "A diligence is a creature that leaves at a fixed hour, and its
    passengers run to it; a vetturino leaves at all hours, and runs
    after its passengers. Hardly have you set your foot out of the
    boat that brings you from the steam-vessel to the shore, than
    you are assailed, stifled, dragged, deafened by twenty drivers,
    who look on you as their merchandise, and treat you
    accordingly, and would end by carrying you off bodily, if they
    could agree among them who should have the booty. Families have
    been separated at the port of Livorno, to find each other how
    they could in the streets of Florence. In vain you jump into a
    fiacre, they leap up before, above, behind; and at the gate
    of the hotel, there you are in the midst of the same group of
    villains, who are only the more clamorous for having been kept
    waiting. Reduced to extremities, you declare that you have come
    to Livorno upon commercial business, and that you intend
    staying eight days at least, and you ask of the garçon, loud
    enough for all to hear, if there is an apartment at liberty for
    the next week. At this they will sometimes abandon the prey,
    which they reckon upon seizing at some future time; they run
    back with all haste to the port to catch some other traveller,
    and you are free.

    "Nevertheless, if about an hour after this you should wish to
    leave the hotel, you will find one or two sentinels at the
    gate. These are connected with the hotel, and they have been
    forewarned by the garçon that it will not be eight days
    before you leave--that, in fact, you will leave to-morrow.
    These it is absolutely necessary that you call in, and make
    your treaty with. If you should have the imprudence to issue
    forth into the street, fifty of the brotherhood will be
    attracted by their clamours, and the scene of the port will be
    renewed. They will ask ten piastres for a carriage--you will
    offer five. They will utter piercing cries of dissent--you will
    shut the door upon them. In three minutes one of them will
    climb in at the window, and engage with you for the five
    piastres.

    "This treaty concluded, you are sacred to all the world; in
    five minutes the report is spread through all Livorno that you
    are engaged. You may then go where you please; every one
    salutes you, wishes you bon voyage; you would think yourself
    amongst the most disinterested people in the world."--P. 94.

The only question that remains to be decided is that of the drink-money--the buona-mano, as
the Italian calls it. This is a matter of grave importance, and should be gravely considered.
On this buona-mano depends the rapidity of your journey; for the time may vary at the will
of the driver from six to twelve hours. Hereupon M. Dumas tells an amusing story of a Russian
prince, which not only proves how efficient a cause this buona mano may be in the accomplishment
of the journey, but also illustrates very forcibly a familiar principle of our own jurisprudence,
and a point to which the Italian traveller must pay particular attention. We doubt if the necessity
of a written agreement, in order to enforce the terms of a contract, was ever made more painfully
evident than in the following instance:--

    "The Prince C---- had arrived, with his mother and a German
    servant, at Livorno. Like every other traveller who arrives at
    Livorno, he had sought immediately the most expeditious means
    of departure. These, as we have said, present themselves in
    sufficient abundance; the only difficulty is, to know how to
    use them.

    "The vetturini had learnt from the industrious porters that
    they had to deal with a prince. Consequently they demanded
    twelve piastres instead of ten, and the prince, instead of
    offering five, conceded the twelve piastres, but stipulated
    that this should include every thing, especially the
    buona-mano, which the master should settle with the driver.
    'Very good,' said the vetturini; the prince paid his twelve
    piastres, and the carriage started off, with him and his
    baggage, at full gallop. It was nine o'clock in the morning:
    according to his calculation, the Prince would be at Florence
    about three or four in the afternoon.

    "They had advanced about a quarter of a league when the horses
    relaxed their speed, and began to walk step by step. As to the
    driver, he sang upon his seat, interrupting himself now and
    then to gossip with such acquaintances as he met upon the road;
    and as it is ill talking and progressing at the same time, he
    soon brought himself to a full stop when he had occasion for
    conference.

    "The prince endured this for some time; at length putting his
    head out of the window, he said, in the purest Tuscan,
    'Avanti! avanti! tirate via!'

    "'How much do you give for buona-mano?' answered the driver,
    turning round upon his box.

    "'Why do you speak to me of your buona-mano?' said the prince.
    'I have given your master twelve piastres, on condition that it
    should include every thing.'

    "'The buona-mano does not concern the master,' responded the
    driver; 'how much do you give?'

    "'Not a sou--I have paid.'

    "'Then, your excellence, we will continue our walk.'

    "'Your master has engaged to take me to Florenco in six hours,'
    said the Prince.

    "'Where is the paper that says that--the written paper, your
    excellence?'

    "'Paper! what need of a paper for so simple a matter? I have no
    paper.'

    "'Then, your excellence, we will continue our walk.'

    "'Ah, we will see that!' said the Prince.

    "'Yes, we will see that!' said the driver.

    "Hereupon the prince spoke to his German servant, Frantz, who
    was sitting beside the coachman, and bade him administer due
    correction to this refractory fellow.

    "Frantz descended from the voiture without uttering a word,
    pulled down the driver from his seat, and pummelled him with
    true German gravity. Then pointing to the road, helped him on
    his box, and reseated himself by his side. The driver
    proceeded--a little slower than before. One wearies of all
    things in this world, even of beating a coachman. The prince,
    reasoning with himself that, fast or slow, he must at length
    arrive at his journey's end, counselled the princess his mother
    to compose herself to sleep; and, burying himself in one corner
    of the carriage, gave her the example.

    "The driver occupied six hours in going from Livorno to
    Pontedera; just four hours more than was necessary. Arrived at
    Pontedera, he invited the Prince to descend, as he was about to
    change the carriage.

    "'But,' said the Prince, 'I have given twelve piastres to your
    master on condition that the carriage should not be changed.'

    "'Where is the paper?'

    "'Fellow, you know I have none.'

    "'In that case, your excellence, we will change the carriage.'

    "The prince was half-disposed to break the rascal's bones
    himself; but, besides that this would have compromised his
    dignity, he saw, from the countenances of those who stood
    loitering round the carriage, that it would be a very imprudent
    step. He descended; they threw his baggage down upon the
    pavement, and after about an hour's delay, brought out a
    miserable dislocated carriage and two broken-winded horses.

    "Under any other circumstances the Prince would have been
    generous--would have been lavish; but he had insisted upon his
    right, he was resolved not to be conquered. Into this
    ill-conditioned vehicle he therefore doggedly entered, and as
    the new driver had been forewarned that there would be no
    buona-mano, the equipage started amidst the laughter and
    jeers of the mob.

    "This time the horses were such wretched animals that it would
    have been out of conscience to expect anything more than a walk
    from them. It took six more hours to go from Pontedera to
    Empoli.

    "Arrived at Empoli the driver stopped, and presented himself at
    the door of the carriage.

    "'Your excellence sleeps here,' said he to the prince.

    "'How! are we at Florence?'

    "'No, your excellence, you are at the charming little town of
    Empoli.'

    "'I paid twelve piastres to your master to go to Florence, not
    to Empoli. I will sleep at Florence.'

    "'Where is the paper?'

    "'To the devil with your paper!'

    "'Your excellence then has no paper?'

    "'No.'

    "'In that case, your excellence now will sleep at Empoli!'

    "In a few minutes afterwards the prince found himself driven
    under a kind of archway. It was a coach-house belonging to an
    inn. On his expressing surprise at being driven into this sort
    of place, and repeating his determination to proceed to
    Florence, the coachman said, that, at all events, he must
    change his horses; and that this was the most convenient place
    for so doing. In fact, he took out his horses, and led them
    away.

    "After waiting some time for his return, the prince called to
    Frantz, and bade him open the door of this coach-house, and
    bring somebody.

    "Frantz obeyed, but found the door shut--fastened.

    "On hearing that they were shut in, the prince started from the
    carriage, shook the gates with all his might, called out
    lustily, and looked about, but in vain, for some paving stone
    with which to batter them open.

    "Now the prince was a man of admirable good sense; so, having
    satisfied himself that the people in the house either could
    not, or would not hear him, he determined to make the best of
    his position. Re-entering the carriage, he drew up the glasses,
    looked to his pistols, stretched out his legs, and wishing his
    mother good night, went off to sleep. Frantz did the same on
    his post. The princess was not so fortunate; she was in
    perpetual terror of some ambush, and kept her eyes wide open
    all the night.

    "So the night passed. At seven o'clock in the morning the door
    of the coach-house opened, and a driver appeared with a couple
    of horses.

    "'Are there not some travellers for Florence here?' he asked
    with the tone of perfect politeness, and as if he were putting
    the most natural question in the world.

    "The prince leapt from the carriage with the intention of
    strangling the man--but it was another driver!

    "'Where is the rascal that brought us here?' he demanded.

    "'What, Peppino? Does your excellence mean Peppino?'

    "'The driver from Pontedera?'

    "'Ah, well, that was Peppino.'

    "'Then where is Peppino?'

    "'He is on his road home. Yes, your excellence. You see it was
    the fête of the Madonna, and we danced and drank together--I
    and Peppino--all the night; and this morning about an hour ago
    says he to me, 'Gaetano, do you take your horses, and go find
    two travellers and a servant who are under a coach-house at the
    Croix d'Or; all is paid except the buona-mano.' And I asked
    him, your excellence, how it happened that travellers were
    sleeping in a coach-house instead of in a chamber. 'Oh,' said
    he, 'they are English--they are afraid of not having clean
    sheets, and so they prefer to sleep in their carriage in the
    coach-house.' Now as I know the English are a nation of
    originals, I supposed it was all right, and so I emptied
    another flask, and got my horses, and here I am. If I am too
    early I will return, and come by and by.

    "'No, no, in the devil's name,' said the prince, 'harness your
    beasts, and do not lose a moment. There is a piastre for your
    buona-mano.'

    "They were soon at Florence.

    "The first care of the prince, after having breakfasted, for
    neither he nor the princess had eaten any thing since they had
    left Livorno, was to lay his complaint before a magistrate.

    "'Where is the paper?' said the judicial authority.

    "'I have none,' said the prince.

    "'Then I counsel you,' replied the judge, 'to let the matter
    drop. Only the next time give five piastres to the master, and
    a piastre and a half to the driver; you will save five piastres
    and a half, and arrive eighteen hours sooner.'"--P. 97.

M. Dumas, however, arrives at Florence without any such disagreeable adventure as sleeping
in a coach-house. He gives a pleasing description of the Florentine people, amongst whom the
spirit of commerce has died away, but left behind a considerable share of the wealth and luxury
that sprang from it. There is little spirit of enterprise; no rivalry between a class enriching
itself and the class with whom wealth is hereditary; the jewels that were purchased under the
reign of the Medici still shine without competitors on the promenade and at the opera. It is
a people that has made its fortune, and lives contentedly on its revenues, and on what it gets
from the stranger. "The first want of a Florentine," says our author, "is repose; even pleasure
is secondary; it costs him some little effort to be amused. Wearied of its frequent political
convulsions, the town of the Medici aspires only to that unbroken and enchanted slumber which
fell, as the fairy tale informs us, on the beautiful lady in the sleepy wood. No one here seems
to labour, except those who are tolling and ringing the church-bells, and they indeed appear
to have rest neither day nor night."

There are but three classes visible in Florence. The nobility--the foreigner--and the people.
The nobility, a few princely houses excepted, spend but little, the people work but little,
and it would be a marvel how these last lived if it were not for the foreigner. Every autumn
brings them their harvest in the shape of a swarm of travellers from England, France, or Russia,
and, we may now add, America. The winter pays for the long delicious indolence of the summer.
Then the populace lounges, with interminable leisure, in their churches, on their promenades,
round the doors of coffee-houses that are never closed either day or night; they follow their
religious processions; they cluster with an easy good-natured curiosity round every thing that
wears the appearance of a fête; taking whatever amusement presents itself, without caring to
detain it, and quitting it without the least distrust that some other quite as good will occupy
its place. "One evening we were roused," says our traveller, "by a noise in the street: two
or three musicians of the opera, on leaving the theatre, had taken a fancy to go home playing
a waltz. The scattered population of the streets arranged themselves, and followed waltzing.
The men who could find no better partners, waltzed together. Five or six hundred persons were
enjoying this impromptu ball, which kept its course from the opera house to the Port del Prato,
where the last musician resided. The last musician having entered his house, the waltzers returned
arm-in-arm, still humming the air to which they had been dancing."

    "It follows," continues M. Dumas, "from this commercial apathy,
    that at Florence you must seek after every thing you want. It
    never comes of itself--never presents itself before
    you;--everything there stays at home--rests in its own place. A
    foreigner who should remain only a month in the capital of
    Tuscany would carry away a very false idea of it. At first it
    seems impossible to procure the things the most indispensable,
    or those you do procure are bad; it is only after some time
    that you learn, and that not from the inhabitants, but from
    other foreigners who have resided there longer than yourself,
    where anything is to be got. At the end of six months you are
    still making discoveries of this sort; so that people generally
    quit Tuscany at the time they have learned to live there. It
    results from all this that every time you visit Florence you
    like it the better; if you should revisit it three or four
    times you would probably end by making of it a second country,
    and passing there the remainder of your lives."[2]

    [2] It is amusing to contrast the artistic manner in which
    our author makes all his statements, with the style of a
    guide-book, speaking on the manufactures and industry of
    Florence. It is from Richard's Italy we quote. Mark the
    exquisite medley of humdrum, matter-of-fact details, jotted
    down as if by some unconscious piece of mechanism:--"Florence
    manufactures excellent silks, woollen cloths, elegant
    carriages, bronze articles, earthenware, straw hats, perfumes,
    essences, and candied fruits; also, all kinds of turnery and
    inlaid work, piano-fortes, philosophical and mathematical
    instruments, &c. The dyes used at this city are much admired,
    particularly the black, and its sausages are famous throughout
    all Italy."

Shall we visit the churches of Florence with M. Dumas? No, we are not in the vein. Shall we
go with him to the theatres--to the opera--to the Pergola? Yes, but not to discuss the music
or the dancing. Every body knows that at the great theatres of Italy the fashionable part of
the audience pay very little attention to the music, unless it be a new opera, but make compensation
by listening devoutly to the ballet. The Pergola is the great resort of fashion. A box at the
Pergola, and a carriage for the banks of the Arno, are the indispensables, we are told, at
Florence. Who has these, may eat his macaroni where he pleases--may dine for sixpence if he
will, or can: it is his own affair, the world is not concerned about it--he is still a gentleman,
and ranks with nobles. Who has them not--though he be derived from the loins of emperors, and
dine every day off plate of gold, and with a dozen courses--is still nobody. Therefore regulate
your expenditure accordingly, all ye who would be somebody. We go with M. Dumas to the opera,
not, as we have said, for the music or the dancing, but because, as is the way with dramatic
authors, he will there introduce us, for the sake of contrast with an institution very different
from that of an operatic company--

    "Sometimes in the midst of a cavatina or a pas-de-deux, a
    bell with a sharp, shrill, excoriating sound, will be heard; it
    is the bell della misericordia. Listen: if it sound but once,
    it is for some ordinary accident; if twice, for one of a
    serious nature; if it sounds three times, it is a case of
    death. If you look around, you will see a slight stir in some
    of the boxes, and it will often happen that the person you have
    been speaking to, if a Florentine, will excuse himself for
    leaving you, will quietly take his hat and depart. You inquire
    what that bell means, and why it produces so strange an effect.
    You are told it is the bell della misericordia, and that he
    with whom you were speaking is a brother of the order.

    "This brotherhood of mercy is one of the noblest institutions
    in the world. It was founded in 1244, on occasion of the
    frequent pestilences which at that period desolated the town,
    and it has been perpetuated to the present day, without any
    alteration, except in its details--with none in its purely
    charitable spirit. It is composed of seventy-two brothers,
    called chiefs of the watch, who are each in service four months
    in the year. Of these seventy-two brothers, thirty are priests,
    fourteen gentlemen, and twenty-eight artists. To these, who
    represent the aristocratic classes and the liberal arts, are
    added 500 labourers and workmen, who may be said to represent
    the people.

    "The seat of the brotherhood is in the place del Duomo. Each
    brother has there, marked with his own name, a box enclosing a
    black robe like that of the penitents, with openings only for
    the eyes and mouth, in order that his good actions may have the
    further merit of being performed in secret. Immediately that
    the news of any accident or disaster is brought to the brother
    who is upon guard, the bell sounds its alarm, once, twice, or
    thrice, according to the gravity of the case; and at the sound
    of the bell every brother, wherever he may be, is bound to
    retire at the instant, and hasten to the rendezvous. There he
    learns what misfortune or what suffering has claimed his pious
    offices; he puts on his black robe and a broad hat, takes the
    taper in his hand, and goes forth where the voice of misery has
    called him. If it is some wounded man, they bear him to the
    hospital; if the man is dead, to a chapel: the nobleman and the
    day labourer, clothed with the same robe, support together the
    same litter, and the link which unites these two extremes of
    society is some sick pauper, who, knowing neither, is praying
    equally for both. And when these brothers of mercy have quitted
    the house, the children whose father they have carried out, or
    the wife whose husband they have borne away, have but to look
    around them, and always, on some worm-eaten piece of furniture,
    there will be found a pious alms, deposited by an unknown hand.

    "The Grand-duke himself is a member of this fraternity, and I
    have been assured that more than once, at the sound of that
    melancholy bell, he has clothed himself in the uniform of
    charity, and penetrated unknown, side by side with a
    day-labourer, to the bed's head of some dying wretch, and that
    his presence had afterwards been detected only by the alms he
    had left behind."--p. 126.

It is not to be supposed that our dramatist pursues the same direct and unadventurous route
that lies open to every citizen of Paris and London. At the end of the first volume we leave
him still at Florence; we open the second, and we find him and his companion Jadin, and his
companion's dog Milord, standing at the port of Naples, looking out for some vessel to take
them to Sicily. So that we have travels in Italy with Rome left out. Not that he did not visit
Rome, but that we have no "souvenirs" of his visit here. As the book is a mere capriccio, there
can be no possible objection taken to it on this score. Besides, the island of Sicily, which
becomes the chief scene of his adventures, is less beaten ground. Nor do we hear much of Naples,
for he quits Naples almost as soon as he had entered it. This last fact requires explanation.

M. Dumas has had the honour to be an object of terror or of animosity to crowned heads. When
at Genoa, his Sardinian Majesty manifested this hostility to M. Dumas--we presume on account
of his too liberal politics--by dispatching an emissary of the police to notify to him that
he must immediately depart from Genoa. Which emissary of his Sardinian Majesty had no sooner
delivered his royal sentence of deportation, than he extended his hand for a pour boire. Either
M. Dumas must be a far more formidable person than we have any notion of, or majesty can be
very nervous, or very spiteful. And now, when he is about to enter Naples----but why do we
presume to relate M. Dumas's personal adventures in any other language than his own? or language
as near his own as we--who are, we must confess, imperfect translators--can hope to give.

    "The very evening of our arrival at Naples, Jadin and I ran to
    the port to enquire if by chance any vessel, whether steam-boat
    or sailing packet, would leave on the morrow for Sicily. As it
    is not the ordinary custom for travellers to go to Naples to
    remain there a few hours only, let me say a word on the
    circumstance that compelled us to this hasty departure.

    "We had left Paris with the intention of traversing the whole
    of Italy, including Sicily and Calabria; and, putting this
    project into scrupulous execution, we had already visited Nice,
    Genoa, Milan, Florence, and Rome, when, after a sojourn of
    about three weeks at this last city, I had the honour to meet,
    at the Marquis de P----'s, our own chargé des affaires, the
    Count de Ludorf, the Neapolitan ambassador. As I was to leave
    in a few days for Naples, the Marquis introduced me to his
    brother in diplomacy. M. de Ludorf received me with that cold
    and vacant smile which pledges to nothing; nevertheless, after
    this introduction, I thought myself bound to carry to him our
    passports myself. M. de Ludorf had the civility to tell me to
    deposit the passports at his office, and to call there for them
    the day after the morrow.

    "Two days having elapsed, I accordingly presented myself at the
    office: I found a clerk there, who, with the utmost politeness,
    informed me that some difficulties having arisen on the subject
    of my visa, I had better make an application to the
    ambassador himself. I was obliged, therefore, whatever
    resolution I had made to the contrary, to present myself again
    to M. de Ludorf.

    "I found the ambassador more cold, more measured than before,
    but reflecting that it would probably be the last time I should
    have the honour of seeing him, I resigned myself. He motioned
    to me to take a chair. This was some improvement upon the last
    visit; the last visit he left me standing.

    "'Monsieur,' said he, with a certain air of embarrassment, and
    drawing out, one after the other, the folds of his shirt-front,
    'I regret to say that you cannot go to Naples.'

    "'Why so?' I replied, determined to impose upon our dialogue
    whatever tone I thought fit--'are the roads so bad?'

    "'No, monsieur; the roads are excellent, but you have the
    misfortune to be on the list of those who cannot enter the
    kingdom of Naples.'

    "'However honourable such a distinction may be, monsieur
    l'ambassadeur,' said I, suiting my tone to the words, 'it will
    at present be rather inconvenient, and I trust you will permit
    me to inquire into the cause of this prohibition. If it is
    nothing but one of those slight and vexatious interruptions
    which one meets with perpetually in Italy, I have some friends
    about the world who might have influence sufficient to remove
    it.'

    "'The cause is one of a grave nature, and I doubt if your
    friends, of whatever rank they may be, will have influence to
    remove it.'

    "'What may it be?'

    "'In the first place, you are the son of General Matthieu
    Dumas, who was minister of war at Naples during the usurpation
    of Joseph.'

    "'I am sorry,' I answered, 'to be obliged to decline any
    relationship with that illustrious general. My father was not
    General Matthieu, but General Alexandre Dumas. The same,' I
    continued, seeing that he was endeavouring to recall some
    reminiscences connected with the name of Dumas, 'who, after
    having been made prisoner at Tarentum, in contempt of the
    rights of hospitality, was poisoned at Brindisi, with Mauscourt
    and Dolomieu, in contempt of the rights of nations. This
    happened, monsieur l'ambassadeur, at the same time that they
    hanged Carracciolo in the Gulf of Naples. You see I do all I
    can to assist your recollection.'

    "M. de Ludorf bit his lips.

    "'Well, monsieur,' he resumed after a moment's silence, 'there
    is a second reason--your political opinions. You are marked out
    as a republican, and have quitted Paris, it is said, on some
    political design.'

    "'To which I answer, monsieur, by showing you my letters of
    introduction. They bear nearly all the seals and signatures of
    our ministers. Here is one from the Admiral Jacob, another from
    Marshal Soult, another from M. de Villemain; they claim for me
    the aid of the French ambassador in any case of this
    description.'

    "'Well, well,' said M. de Ludorf, 'since you have foreseen the
    very difficulty that has occurred, meet it with those means
    which are in your power. For me, I repeat, I cannot sign your
    passport. Those of your companions are quite regular; they can
    proceed when they please; but they must proceed without you.'

    "'Has the Count de Ludorf' said I, rising, 'any commissions for
    Naples?'

    "'Why so, monsieur?'

    "'Because I shall have great pleasure in undertaking them.'

    "'But I repeat, you cannot go to Naples.'

    "'I shall be there in three days.'

    "I wished M. de Ludorf good morning, and left him stupefied at
    my assurance."--Vol. ii. p. 5.

Our dramatical traveller ran immediately to a young friend, an artist then studying at Rome,
and prevailed on him to take out a passport, in his own name for Naples. Fortified with this
passport, and assuming the name of his friend, he left Rome that evening. The following day
he reached Naples. But as he was exposed every moment to detection, it was necessary that he
should pass over immediately to Sicily. The steam-boats at Naples, unlike the steam-boats every
where else, start at no fixed period. The captain waits for his contingent of passengers, and
till this has been obtained both he and his vessel are immovable. M. Dumas and his companion,
therefore, hired a small sailing vessel, a speronara as it is called, in which they embarked
the next morning. But before weighing anchor M. Dumas took from his portfolio the neatest,
purest, whitest, sheet of paper that it contained, and indited the following letter to the
Count de Ludorf:--

    "Monsieur le Comte,

    "I am distressed that your excellency did not think fit to
    charge me with your commissions for Naples. I should have
    executed them with a fidelity which would have convinced you of
    the grateful recollection I retain of your kind offices.

    "Accept, M. le Comte, the assurance of those lively sentiments
    which I entertain towards you, and of which, one day or other,
    I hope to give you proof.

    "ALEX. DUMAS."

    "Naples, 23d Aug. 1835."

With the crew of this speronara we became as familiar as with the personages of a novel; and,
indeed, about this time the novelist begins to predominate over the tourist.

On leaving the bay of Naples our traveller first makes for the island of Capri. The greatest
curiosity which he here visits and describes in the azure grotto. He and his companion are
rowed, each in a small skiff, to a narrow dark aperture upon the rocky coast, and which appears
the darker from its contrast with the white surf that is dashing about it. He is told to lie
down on his back in the boat, to protect his head from a concussion against the low roof.

    "In a moment after I was borne upon the surge--the bark glided
    on with rapidity--I saw nothing but a dark rock, which seemed
    for a second to be weighing on my chest. Then on a sudden I
    found myself in a grotto so marvellous that I uttered a cry of
    astonishment, and started up in my admiration with a bound
    which endangered the frail bark on which I stood.

    "I had before me, around me, above me, beneath me, a perfect
    enchantment, which words cannot describe, and which the pencil
    would utterly fail to give any impression of. Imagine an
    immense cavern, all pure azure--as if God had made a tent there
    with some residue of the firmament; a surface of water so
    limpid, so transparent, that you seem to float on air: above
    you, the pendant stalactites, huge and fantastical, reversed
    pyramids and pinnacles: below you a sand of gold mingled with
    marine vegetation; and around the margin of cave, where it is
    bathed by the water, the coral shooting out its capricious and
    glittering branches. That narrow entrance which, from the sea,
    showed like a dark spot, now shone at one end a luminous point,
    the solitary star which gave its subdued light to this fairy
    palace; whilst at the opposite extremity a sort of alcove led
    on the imagination to expect new wonders, or perhaps the
    apparition of the nymph or goddess of the place.

    "In all probability the azure grotto was unknown to the
    ancients. No poet speaks of it; and surely with their
    marvellous imagination the Greeks could not have failed to make
    it the palace of some marine goddess, and to have transmitted
    to us her history. The sea, perhaps, was higher than it is now,
    and the secrets of this cave were known only to Amphitrite and
    her court of sirens, naiads, and tritons.

    "Even now at times the sea rises and closes the orifice, so
    that those who have entered cannot escape. In which case they
    must wait till the wind, which had suddenly shifted to the east
    or west, returns to the north or south; and it has happened
    that visitors who came to spend twenty minutes in the azure
    grotto, have remained there two, three, and even four days. To
    provide against such an emergency, the boatmen always bring
    with them a certain quantity of biscuit to feed the prisoners,
    and as the rock affords fresh water in several places, there is
    no fear of thirst. It was not till we had been in the grotto
    some time that our boatmen communicated this piece of
    information; we were disposed to reproach them for this delay,
    but they answered with the utmost simplicity, that if they told
    this at first to travellers, half of them would decline coming,
    and this would injure the boatmen.

    "I confess that this little piece of information raised a
    certain disquietude, and I found the azure grotto infinitely
    less agreeable to the imagination.... We again laid ourselves
    down at the bottom of our respective canoes, and issued forth
    with the same precautions, and the same good fortune, with
    which we had entered. But we were some minutes before we could
    open our eyes; the burning sun upon the glittering ocean
    absolutely blinded us. We had not gone many yards, however,
    before the eye recovered itself, and all that we had seen in
    the azure grotto had the consistency of a dream."

From Capri our travellers proceed to Sicily. We have a long story and a violent storm upon
the passage, and are landed at Messina. Here M. Dumas enlarges his experience by an acquaintance
with the Sirocco. His companion, M. Jadin, had been taken ill, and a physician had been called in.

    "The doctor had ordered that the patient (who was suffering
    under a fever) should be exposed to all the air possible, that
    doors and windows should be opened, and he should be placed in
    the current. This was done; but on the present evening, to my
    astonishment, instead of the fresh breeze of the night--which
    was wont to blow the fresher from our neighbourhood to the
    sea--there entered at the open window a dry hot wind like the
    air from a furnace. I waited for the morning, but the morning
    brought no change in the state of the atmosphere.

    "My patient had suffered greatly through the night. I rang the
    bell for some lemonade, the only drink the doctor had
    recommended; but no one answered the summons. I rang again, and
    a third time: still no one came; at length seeing that the
    mountain would not come to me, I went to the mountain. I
    wandered through the corridor, and entered apartment after
    apartment, and found no one to address. It was nine o'clock in
    the morning, yet the master and mistress of the house had not
    left their room, and not a domestic was at his post. It was
    quite incomprehensible.

    "I descended to the portico; I found him lying on an old sofa
    all in tatters, the principal ornament of his room, and asked
    him why the house was thus deserted.

    "'Ah, monsieur!' said he, 'do you not feel the sirocco?'

    "'Sirocco or not, is this a reason why no one should come when
    I call?'

    "'Oh, monsieur, when it is sirocco no one does any thing!'

    "'And your travellers, who is to wait upon them?'

    "'On those days they wait upon themselves.'

    "I begged pardon of this respectable official for having
    disturbed him; he heaved such a sigh as indicated that it
    required a great amount of Christian charity to grant the
    pardon I had asked.

    "The hour arrived when the doctor should have paid his visit,
    and no doctor came. I presumed that the sirocco detained him
    also; but as the state of Jadin appeared to me alarming, I
    resolved to go and rouse my Esculapius, and bring him, willing
    or unwilling, to the hotel. I took my hat and sallied forth.

    "Messina had the appearance of a city of the dead: not an
    inhabitant was walking in the streets, not a head was seen at
    the windows. The mendicants themselves (and he who has not seen
    the Sicilian mendicant, knows not what wretchedness is,) lay in
    the corners of the streets, stretched out, doubled up, panting,
    without strength to stretch out their hand for charity, or
    voice to ask an alms. Pompeii, which I visited three months
    afterwards, was not more silent, more solitary, more inanimate.

    "I reached the doctor's. I rang, I knocked, no one answered. I
    pushed against the door, it opened;--I entered, and pursued my
    search for the doctor.

    "I traversed three or four apartments. There were women lying
    upon sofas, and children sprawling on the floor. Not one even
    raised a head to look at me. At last, in one of the rooms, the
    door of which was, like the rest, half-open, I found the man I
    was in quest of, stretched upon his bed.

    "I went up to him, I took him by the hand, and felt his pulse.

    "'Ah,' said he, with a melancholy voice, and scarcely turning
    his head towards me, 'Is that you? What can you want?'

    "'Want!--I want you to come and see my friend, who is no
    better, as it seems to me.'

    "'Go and see your friend!' cried the doctor, in a
    fright--'impossible!'

    "'Why impossible?'

    "He made a desperate effort to move, and taking his cane in his
    left hand, passed his right hand slowly down it, from the
    golden head that adorned it to the other extremity. 'Look you,'
    said he, 'my cane sweats.'

    "And, in fact, there fell some globules of water from it, such
    an effect has this terrible wind even on inanimate things.

    "'Well,' said I, 'and what does that prove?'

    "'That proves, that at such a time as this, there are no
    physicians, all are patients.[3]'"--P. 175.

    [3] The extreme misery of the paupers in Sicily, who form, he
    tells us, a tenth part of the population, quite haunts the
    imagination of M. Dumas. He recurs to it several times. At one
    place he witnesses the distribution, at the door of a convent,
    of soup to these poor wretches, and gives a terrible
    description of the famine-stricken group. "All these
    creatures," he continues, "had eaten nothing since yesterday
    evening. They had come there to receive their porringer of
    soup, as they had come to-day, as they would come to-morrow.
    This was all their nourishment for twenty-four hours, unless
    some of them might obtain a few grani from their
    fellow-citizens, or the compassion of strangers; but this is
    very rare, as the Syracusans are familiarized with the
    spectacle, and few strangers visit Syracuse. When the
    distributor of this blessed soup appeared, there were
    unheard-of cries, and each one rushed forward with his wooden
    bowl in his hand. Only there were some too feeble to exclaim,
    or to run, and who dragged themselves forward, groaning, upon
    their hands and knees. There was in the midst of all, a child
    clothed, not in anything that could be called a shirt, but a
    kind of spider's web, with a thousand holes, who had no wooden
    bowl, and who wept with hunger. It stretched out its poor
    little meagre hands, and joined them together, to supply as
    well as it could, by this natural receptacle, the absent bowl.
    The cook poured in a spoonful of the soup. The soup was
    boiling, and burned the child's hand. It uttered a cry of pain,
    and was compelled to open its fingers, and the soup fell upon
    the pavement. The child threw itself on all fours, and began to
    eat in the manner of a dog."--Vol. iii. p. 58.

    And in another place he says, "Alas, this cry of hunger! it is
    the eternal cry of Sicily; I have heard nothing else for three
    months. There are miserable wretches, whose hunger has never
    been appeased, from the day when, lying in their cradle, they
    began to draw the milk from their exhausted mothers, to the
    last hour when, stretched on their bed of death, they have
    expired endeavouring to swallow the sacred host which the
    priest had laid upon their lips. Horrible to think of! there
    are human beings to whom, to have eaten once sufficiently,
    would be a remembrance for all their lives to come."--Vol. iv.
    p. 108.

Seeing there was no chance of bringing the doctor to the hotel, unless he carried him there
by main force, Mr Dumas contented himself with relating the symptoms of his friend. To drink
lemonade--much lemonade--all the lemonade he could swallow, was the only prescription that
the physician gave. And the simple remedy seems to have sufficed; for the patient shortly after
recovered.

Not the least agreeable portion of these travels, is the pleasant impression they leave of
the traveller himself, one who has his humours doubtless, but who is social, buoyant, brave,
generous, and enterprising. A Frenchman--as a chemist, in his peculiar language, would say--is
a creature "endowed with a considerable range of affinity." Our traveller has this range of
affinity; he wins the heart of all and several--the crew of his speronara. We will close with
the following extract, both because it shows the frank and lively feelings of the Frenchman,
and because it introduces a name dear to all lovers of melody. The father of Bellini was a
Sicilian, and Dumas was in Sicily.

    "It was while standing on this spot, that I asked my guide if
    he knew the father of Bellini. At this question he turned, and
    pointing out to me an old man who was passing in a little
    carriage drawn by one horse--'Look you,' said he, 'there he is,
    taking his ride into the country!'

    "I ran to the carriage and stopped it, knowing that he is never
    intrusive who speaks to a father of his son, and of such a son
    as Bellini's. At the first mention of his name, the old man
    took me by both hands, and asked me eagerly if I really knew
    his son. I drew from my portfolio a letter of introduction,
    which, on my departure from Paris, Bellini had given me for the
    Duchess de Noja, and asked him if he knew the handwriting. He
    took the letter in his hands, and answered only by kissing the
    superscription.

    "'Ah,' said he, turning round to me, 'you know not how good he
    is! We are not rich. Well, at each success there comes some
    remembrance, something to add to the ease and comfort of an old
    man. If you will come home with me, I will show you how many
    things I owe to his goodness. Every success brings something
    new. This watch I carry with me, was from Norma; this little
    carriage and horse, from the Puritans. In every letter that
    he writes, he says that he will come; but Paris is far from
    Sicily. I do not trust to this promise--I am afraid that I
    shall die without seeing him again. You will see him, you----'

    "'Yes,' I answered, 'and if you have any commission----'

    "'No--what should I send him?--My blessing?--Dear boy, I give
    it him night and morning. But tell him you have given me a
    happy day by speaking to me of him--tell him that I embraced
    you as an old friend--(and he embraced me)--but you need not
    say that I was in tears. Besides,' he added, 'it is with joy
    that I weep.--And is it true that my son has a reputation?'

    "'Indeed a very great reputation.'

    "'How strange!' said the old man, 'who would have thought it,
    when I used to scold him, because, instead of working, he would
    be eternally beating time, and teaching his sister all the old
    Sicilian airs! Well, these things are written above. I wish I
    could see him before I die.--But your name?' he added, 'I have
    forgotten all this time to ask your name.'

    "I told him: it woke no recollection.

    "'Alexandre Dumas, Alexandre Dumas,' he repeated two or three
    times, 'I shall recollect that he who bears that name has given
    me good news of my son. Adieu! Alexandre Dumas--I shall
    recollect that name--Adieu!'

    "Poor old man! I am sure he has not forgotten it; for the news
    I gave him of his son was the last he was ever to receive."--P.
    226.

Sicily is one of those romantic countries, where you may still meet with adventures in your
travels, where you may be shot at by banditti with pointed hats and long guns. M. Dumas passes
not without his share of such adventures. Perhaps, as Sicily is less trodden ground than Italy,
his "Souvenirs" will be found more interesting as he proceeds. We have naturally taken our
quotations in the order in which they presented themselves, and we have not advanced further
than the second of the five delectably small volumes in which these travels are printed. Would
our space permit us to proceed, it is probable that our extracts would increase, instead of
diminishing, in interest.

... Have I been asleep till now, or am I now in a dream?... This, then, is the new world called
thought!... O beautiful world! thou hast long been to me cloudy and confused, like the milky
way, which, they say, consists of thousands of glittering stars! It seems to me that I am ascending
the mountain of knowledge from the valley of darkness and ignorance; each step opens to me
views further and more extensive.... My breast breathes freer, I gaze in the face of the sun....
I look below--the clouds murmur under my feet!... annoying clouds! You prevent me from seeing
the heavens from the earth; from the heaven to look upon the earth!

I wonder how the commonest questions, whence and how, never before came into my head? All God's
world, with every thing in it good or evil, was seen reflected in my soul as in the sea: I
only knew as much of it as the sea does, or a mirror. In my memory, it is true, much was preserved:
but to what end did this serve? Does the hawk understand why the hood is put on his head? Does
the steed understand why they shoe him? Did I understand why in one place mountains are necessary,
in another steppes, here eternal snows, there oceans of sand? Why storms and earthquakes were
necessary? And thou, most wondrous being, Man! it never has entered my head to follow thee
from thy cradle, suspended on a wandering mule, to that magnificent city which I have never
seen, and which I am enchanted merely to have heard of!... I confess that I am already delighted
with the mere outside of a book, without understanding the meaning of the mysterious letters
... but V. not only makes knowledge attractive, but gives me the means of acquiring it. With
him, as a young swallow with its mother, I try my new wings.... The distance and the height
still astonish, but no longer alarm me. The time will come when I shall mount upwards to the
heavens!...

       *       *       *       *       *

