But while I followed, with eye and mind, the movements of the stage, Lafontaine was otherwise
employed. His opera-glass was roving the boxes; and he continually poured into my most ungrateful
ear remarks on the diplomatic body, and recognitions of the merveilleux glittering round the
circle. At last, growing petulant at being thus disturbed, I turned to beg of him to be silent,
when he simply said--"La Voilà!" and pointed to a group which had just taken their seats in
one of the private boxes. From that moment I saw no more of the tragedy. The party consisted
of Clotilde, Madame la Maréchal, and a stern but stately-looking man, in a rich uniform, who
paid them the most marked attention.

"There is the Marquis," said my companion; "he has never smiled probably, since he was born,
or, I suppose, he would smile to-night; for the secretary to the embassy told me, not half
an hour ago, that his marriage-contract had just come over, with the king's signature."

My heart sank within me at the sound. Still my gay informant went on, without much concerning
himself about feelings which I felt alternately flushing and chilling me. "The match will be
a capital one, if matters hold out for us. For Montrecour is one of the largest proprietors
in France; but, as he is rather of the new noblesse, the blood of the De Tourvilles will be
of considerable service to his pedigree. His new uniform shows me that he has got the colonelcy
of my regiment, and, of course, I must attend his levee tomorrow. Will you come?"

My look was a sufficient answer.

"Ah!" said he, "you will not. Ah! there is exactly the national difference. Marriage opens
the world to a French belle, as much as it shuts the world to an English one. Mademoiselle
is certainly very handsome," said he, pausing, and fixing his opera-glass on her. "The contour
of her countenance is positively fine; it reminds me of a picture of Clairon in Medea, in the
King's private apartments--her smile charming, her eyes brilliant, and her diamonds perfect."

I listened, without daring to lift my eyes; he rambled on--"Fortunate fellow, the Marquis--fortunate
in every thing but that intolerable physiognomy of his--Grand Ecuyer, Gold Key, Cross of Saint
Louis, and on the point of being the husband of the finest woman between Calais and Constantinople.
Of course, you intend to leave your card on the marriage?"

"No," was my answer. I suppose that there was something in the sound which struck him. He stared
with palpable wonder.

"What! are you not an old acquaintance? Have you not known her this month? Have you not walked,
and talked, and waltzed, with her?"

"Never spoke a word to her in my life."

"Well, then, you shall not be left in such a forlorn condition long. I must pay my respects
to my colonel. I dare say you may do the same to the fiancée. Mademoiselle will be charmed
to have some interruption to his dreary attentions."

I again refused, but the gay Frenchman was not to be repulsed. He made a prodigious bow to
the box, which was acknowledged by both the ladies. "There," said he, "the affair is settled.
You cannot possibly hesitate now; that bow is a summons to their box. I can tell you also that
you are highly honoured; for, if it had been in Paris, you could not have got a sight of the
bride except under the surveillance of a pair of chaperons as grey and watchful as cats, or
a couple of provincial uncles as stiff as their own forefathers armed cap-a-pie."

I could resist no longer; but with sensations perhaps not unlike those of one ascending the
scaffold, I mounted the stairs. As the door opened, and Lafontaine, tripping forward, announced
my name, Clotilde's cheek suffused with a burning blush, which in the next instant passed away,
and left her pale as marble. The few words of introduction over, she sank into total silence;
and though she made an effort, from time to time, to smile at Lafontaine's frivolities, it
was but a feeble one, and she sat, with pallid lips and a hectic spot on her statue-like cheek,
gazing on the carpet. I attempted to take some share in the conversation; but all my powers
of speech were gone, my tongue refused to utter, and I remained the most complete and unfortunate
contrast to my lively friend, who was now engaged in detailing the attempt on the royal life
to Madame la Maréchal, whose later arrival had prevented their witnessing it in person. My
nearer view of the Marquis did not improve the sketch which Lafontaine had given of his commanding-officer.
He was a tall, stiff, but soldierly-looking person, with an expression, which, as we are disposed
to approve or the reverse, might be called strong sense or sullen temper. But he had some reputation
in the service as a bold, if not an able officer. He had saved the French troops in America
by his daring, from the effects of some blunders committed by the giddiness of their commander-in-chief;
and as his loyalty was not merely known but violent, and his hatred of the new faction in France
not merely determined but furious, he was regarded as one of the pillars of the royal cause.
The Marquis was evidently in ill-humour, whether with our introduction or with his bride; yet
it was too early for a matrimonial quarrel, and too late for a lover's one. Clotilde was evidently
unhappy, and after a few common-places we took our leave; the Marquis himself condescending
to start from his seat, and shut the door upon our parting bow. The stage had now lost all
interest for me, and I prevailed on Lafontaine, much against his will, to leave the house.
The lobby was crowded, the rush was tremendous, and after struggling our way, with some hazard
of our limbs, we reached the door only just in time to see Montrecour escorting the ladies
to their carriage.

All was over for the night; and my companion, who now began to think that he had tormented
me too far, was drawing me slowly, and almost unconsciously, through the multitude, when a
flourish of trumpets and drums announced that their Majesties were leaving the theatre. The
life guards rode up; and the rushing of the crowd, the crash of the carriages, the prancing
and restiveness of the startled horses, and the quarrelling of the coachmen and the Bow Street
officers, produced a scene of uproar. My first thought was the hazard of Clotilde, and I hastened
to the spot where I had seen her last, but she was gone.

"All's safe, you see," said Lafontaine, trying to compose his ruffled costume; "your John Bulls
are dangerous, in their loyalty, to coats and carriages." I agreed with him, and we sprang
into one of the wretched vehicles that held its ground, with English tenacity, in the midst
of a war of coronets. But our adventures were not to close so simply. Our driver had not remained
in the rain for hours, without applying to the national remedy against all inclemencies of
weather. He had no sooner mounted the box than I found that we were running a race with every
carriage which we approached, sometimes tilting against them, and sometimes narrowly escaping
from being overturned. At last we met with an antagonist worthy of our prowess. All my efforts
to stop our charioteer had been useless, for he was evidently beyond any kind of appeal but
that of flinging him from his seat; and Lafontaine, with the genuine fondness of a Gaul for
excitement of all kinds, seemed wonderfully amused as we swept along. But our new rival was
evidently in the same condition with our own Jehu, and after a smart horsewhipping of each
other, they rushed forward at full speed. A sudden scream from within the other carriage showed
the terror of its inmates, as it dashed along; an old woman in full dress, however, was all
that I could discover; for we were fairly distanced in the race, though it was still kept up,
with all the perseverance of a fool thoroughly intoxicated. In a few minutes more we heard
a tremendous collision in front, and saw by the blaze of half a hundred flambeaux brandished
in all directions, our rival a complete wreck, plunged into the midst of a crowd of equipages,
waiting for their lordly owners in front of Devonshire house. It had been one of the weekly
balls given by the Duchess, and the fallen vehicle had damaged panels covered with heraldry
as old as the Plantagenets.

Arriving with almost equal rapidity, but with better fortune, I had but just time to spring
into the street, at the instant when the old lady, writhing herself out of the window, which
was now uppermost, was about to trust her portly person to chance. I caught her as she clung
to the carriage with her many-braceleted arms, and was almost strangled by the vigour of her
involuntary embrace as she rolled down upon me.

There was nothing in the world less romantic than my position in the midst of a circle of sneering
footmen; and, as if to put romance for ever out of the question, I was relieved from my plumed
and mantled encumbrance only by the assistance of Townshend, then the prince of Bow Street
officers; who, knowing every thing and every body, informed me that the lady was a person of
prodigious rank, and that he should 'feel it his duty,' before he parted with me, to ascertain
whether her ladyship's purse had not suffered defalcation by my volunteering.

I was indignant, as might be supposed; and my indignation was not at all decreased by the coming
up of half a dozen Bow Street officers, every one of whom either "believed," or "suspected,"
or "knew," me to be "an old offender." But I was relieved from the laughter of the liveried
mob round me, and probably from figuring in the police histories of the morning, by the extreme
terrors of the lady for the fate of her daughter. The carriage had by this time been raised
up, but its other inmate was not to be found. She now produced the purse, which had been so
impudently the cause of impeaching my honour; "and offered its contents to all who should bring
any tidings of her daughter, her lost child, her Clotilde!" The name thrilled on my ear. I
flew off to renew the search, followed by the crowd--was unsuccessful, and returned, only to
see my protégé in strong hysterics. My situation now became embarrassing; when a way was made
through the crowd by a highly-powdered personage, the chamberlain of the mansion, who announced
himself as sent by "her Grace," to say that the Countess de Tourville was safe, having been
taken into the house; and, further, conveying "her Grace's compliments to Madame la Maréchal
de Tourville, to entreat that she would do her the honour to join her daughter." This message,
delivered with all the pomp of a "gentleman of the bedchamber," produced its immediate effect
upon the circle of cocked hats and worsted epaulettes. They grew grave at once; and guided
by Townshend, who moved on, hat in hand, and bowing with the obsequiousness of one escorting
a prince of the blood, we reached the door of the mansion.

But here a new difficulty arose. The duchess was known to La Maréchal, for to whom in misfortune
was not that most generous and kind-hearted duchess known? But I was still a stranger. However,
with my old Frenchwoman, ceremony was not then the prevailing point. I had been her "preserver,"
as she was pleased to term me. I had been "introduced," which was quite sufficient for knowledge;
above all other merits, "I spoke French like a Parisian;" in short, it was wholly impossible
for her to ascend the crowded staircase, with her numberless dislocations, by the help of any
other arm on earth. The slightest hope of seeing Clotilde would have made me confront all the
etiquette of Spain; and I bore the contrast of my undress costume with the feathered and silken
multitude which filled the stairs, in the spirit of a philosopher, until, by "many a step and
slow," we reached the private wing of the mansion.

There, in an apartment fitted up with all the luxury of a boudoir, yet looking melancholy from
the dim lights and the silent attendants, lay Clotilde on a sofa. But how changed from the
being whom I had just seen at the theatre! She had been in imminent danger, and was literally
dragged from under the horses' feet. A slight wound in her temple was still bleeding, and her
livid lips and half-closed eyes gave me the image of death. As for Madame, she was in distraction;
the volubility of her sorrows made the well-trained domestics shrink, as from a display at
which they ought not to be present; and at length the only recipients of her woes were myself
and the physician, who, with ominous visage, and drops in hand, was administering his aid to
the passive patient. As Madame's despair rendered her wholly useless, the doctor called on
me to assist him in raising her from the floor, on which she had flung herself like a heroine
in a tragedy.

While I was engaged in this most reluctant performance, the accents of a sweet voice, and the
rustling of silk, made me raise my eyes, and a vision floated across the apartment; it was
the duchess herself, glittering in gold and jewels, turbaned and embroidered, as a Semiramis
or a queen of Sheba; she was brilliant enough for either. She had just left the fancy ball
behind, and was come "to make her personal enquiries for the health of her young friend."

My office was rather startling, even to the habitual presence of mind of the leader of fashion.
I might have figured in her eyes, as the husband, or the lover, or the doctor's apprentice;
she almost uttered a scream. But the sound, slight as it was, recalled the Maréchal to her
senses. The explanation was given with promptitude, and received with politeness. My family,
in all its branches, came into her Grace's quick recollection; and I was thus indebted to my
adventure, not only for an introduction to one of the most elegant women of her time--to the
goddess of fashion in her temple, the Circe of high life, at the "witching hour," but of being
most "graciously" received; and even hearing a panegyric on my chivalry, from the Maréchal,
smilingly echoed by lips which seemed made only for smiles.

A summons from the ball-room soon withdrew the captivating mistress of the mansion, who retired
with the step and glance of the very queen of courtesy; and I was about to take my leave, when
a ceremonial of still higher interest awaited me. Clotilde, feebly rising from her sofa, and
sustaining herself on the neck of her kneeling mother, murmured her thanks to me "for the preservation
of her dear parent." The sound of her voice, feeble as it was, fell on my ear like music. I
advanced towards her. The Maréchal stood with her handkerchief to her eyes, and venting her
sensibilities in sobs. The fairer object before me shed no tears, but, with her eyes half-closed,
and looking the marble model of paleness and beauty, she held out her hand. She was, perhaps,
unconscious of offering more than a simple testimony of her gratitude for the services which
her mother had described with such needless eloquence. But in that delicious, yet unaccountable
feeling--that superstition of the heart, which makes every thing eventful--even that simple
pressure of her hand created a long and living future in my mind.

Yet let me do myself justice; whether wise or weak in the presence of the only being who had
ever mastered my mind, I was determined not "to point a moral and adorn a tale." I had other
duties and other purposes before me than to degenerate into a slave of sighs. I was to be no
Romeo, bathing my soul in the luxuries of Italian palace-chambers, moonlight speeches, and
the song of nightingales. I felt that I was an Englishman, and had the rugged steep of fortune
to climb, and climb alone. The time, too, in which I was to begin my struggle for distinction,
aroused me to shake off the spirit of dreams which threatened to steal over my nature. The
spot in which I lived was the metropolis of mankind. I was in the centre of the machinery which
moved the living world. The wheels of the globe were rushing, rolling, and resounding in my
ears. Every interest, necessity, stimulant, and passion of mankind, came in an incessant current
to London, as to the universal heart, and flowed back, refreshed and invigorated, to the extremities
of civilization. I saw the hourly operations of that mighty furnace in which the fortunes of
all nations were mingled, and poured forth remolded. And London itself was never more alive.
Every journal which I took up was filled with the signs of this extraordinary energy; the projects
and meetings, the harangues and political experiments, of bold men, some rising from the mire
into notoriety, if not into fame; some plunging from the highest rank of public life into the
mire, in the hope of rising, if with darkened, yet a freshened wing. The debates in parliament,
never more vivid than at this crisis, with the two great parties in full force, and throwing
out flashes in every movement, like the collision of two vast thunder clouds, were a perpetual
summons to action in every breast which felt itself above the dust it trod. But the French
journals were the true excitements to political ardour. They were more than lamps, guiding
mankind along the dusky paths of public regeneration--they were torches, dazzling the multitude
who attempted to profit by their light; and, while they threw a glare round the head of the
march, blinding all who followed. To one born, like myself, in the most aristocratic system
of society on earth, yet excluded from its advantages by the mere chance of birth, it was new,
and undoubtedly not displeasing, to see the pride of nobility tamed by the new rush of talent
and ambition which had started up from obscurity in France; village attorneys and physicians,
clerks in offices, journalists, men from the plough and the pen, supplying the places of the
noblesse of Clovis and Capet, possessing themselves of the highest power while their predecessors
were flying through Europe; conducting negotiations, commanding armies, ruling assemblies,
holding the helm of government in the storm which had scattered the great names of France upon
the waters. I anticipated all the triumph of the "younger sons."

Even the brief interval of my Brighton visit had curiously changed the aspect of the metropolis.
The emigration was in full force, and every spot was crowded with foreign visages. Sallow cheeks
and starting eyes, scowling brows and fierce mustaches, were the order of the day; the monks
and the military had run off together. The English language was almost overwhelmed by the perpetual
jargon of all the loud-tongued provincialities of France. But the most singular portion was
the ecclesiastical. The streets and parks were filled with the unlucky sheep of the Gallican
church, scattered before the teeth and howl of the republican wolf; and England saw, for the
first time, the secrets of the monastery poured out before the light of day. The appearance
of some among this sable multitude, though venerable and dignified, could not prevent the infinite
grotesque of the others from having its effect on the spectator. The monks and priesthood of
France amounted to little less than a hundred and fifty thousand. All were now thrown up from
the darkness of centuries before a wondering world. I had Milton's vision of Limbo before my eyes.

    "Embryos and idiots, eremites and friars,
    A violent cross wind from either coast
    Blew them transverse. Then might ye see
    Cowls, hoods, and habits, with their wearers, tost,
    And flutter'd into rags; their reliques, beads,
    Indulgences, dispenses, pardons, bulls,
    The sport of winds."

The mire was fully stirred up in which the hierarchy had enjoyed its sleep and sunshine for
a thousand years. The weeds and worms had been fairly scraped off, which for a thousand years
had grown upon the keel of the national vessel, and of which the true wonder was, that the
vessel had been able to make sail with them clinging to her so long. In fact, I was thus present
at one of the most remarkable phenomena of the whole Revolution. The flight of a noblesse was
nothing to this change. The glittering peerage of France, created by a court, and living in
perpetual connexion with the court, as naturally followed its fate as a lapdog follows the
fortunes of its mistress; but here was a digging up of the moles, an extermination of the bats,
a general extrusion of the subversive principle, to a race of existence which, whether above
or below ground, seemed almost to form a part of the soil. Monkery was broken up, like a ship
dashed against the shores of the bay of Biscay. The ship was not only wrecked, but all its
fragments continued to be tossed on the ceaseless surge. The Gallican church was flung loose
over Europe, at a time when all Europe itself was in commotion. I own, to the discredit of
my political foresight, that I thought its forms and follies extinguished for ever. The snake
was more tenacious of life than I had dreamed. But if I erred, I did not err alone.

Mordecai, whom I found immersed deeper and deeper in continental politics, and who scarcely
denied his being the accredited agent of the emigrant princes, gave his opinion of this strange
portion of French society with much more promptitude than he probably would of the probable
fall or rise of stocks.

"Of all the gamblers at the great gambling-table of France," said he, "the clergy have played
their game the worst. By leaving their defence to the throne, they have only dragged down the
throne. By relying on the good sense of the National Assembly, they have left themselves without
a syllable to say. Like men pleading by counsel, they have been at the mercy of their counsel,
and been ruined at once by their weakness and their treachery."

On my observing to him that the church of France was necessarily feebler than either the throne
or the nobles, and that, therefore, its natural course was to depend on both--

"Rely upon it," said the keen Jew "that any one great institution of the state which suffers
itself, in the day of danger, to depend on any other for existence, will be ruined. When all
are pressed, each will be glad to get rid of the pressure, by sacrificing the most dependent.
The church should have stood on its own defence. The Gallican hierarchy was, beyond all question,
the most powerful in Europe. Rome and her cardinals were tinsel and toys to the solid strength
of the great provincial clergy of France. They had numbers, wealth, and station. Those things
could give influence among a population of Hottentots. Let other hierarchies take example.
They threw them all away, at the first move of a bloody handkerchief on the top of a Parisian
pike. They had vast power with the throne; but what had once been energy they turned into encumbrance,
and if the throne is pulled down, it will be by their weight. They had a third of the land
in actual possession, and they allowed themselves to be stripped of it by a midnight vote of
a drunken assembly. If they were caricatured in Paris, they had three-fourths of the population
as fast bound to them as bigotry and their daily bread could bind. Three months ago, they might
have marched to Paris with their crucifixes in front, and three millions of stout peasantry
in their rear, have captured the capital, and fricaseed the foolish legislature. And now, they
have archbishops learning to live on a shilling a-day."

From the Horse guards I had yet obtained nothing, but promises of "being remembered on the
first vacancy;" Clotilde was still a sufferer, and my time, like that of every man without
an object, began to be a deplorable encumbrance. In short, my vision of high life and its happiness
was fairly vanishing hour by hour. I occasionally met Lafontaine; but, congenial as our tempers
might be, our natures had all the national difference, and I sometimes envied, and as often
disdained, his buoyancy. Even he, too, had his fluctuations; and a letter from Mariamne, a
little more or less petulant, raised and sank him like the spirits in a thermometer.

But one day he rushed into my apartment with a look of that despair which only foreigners can
assume, and which actually gave me the idea that he was about to commit suicide. Flinging himself
into a chair, and plunging his hand deep into his bosom, from which I almost expected to see
him draw the fatal weapon, he extracted a paper, and held it forth to me. "Read!" he exclaimed,
with the most pathetic tones of Talma in tragedy--"read my ruin!" I read, and found that it
was a letter from his domineering little Jewess, commanding him to throw up his commission
on the spot, and especially not to go to France, on penalty of her eternal displeasure. My
looks asked an explanation. "There!" cried the hero of the romance, "there!--see the caprice,
the cruelty, the intolerable tyranny of that most uncertain, intractable, and imperious of
all human beings!" I had neither consolation nor contradiction to offer.

He then let me into his own secret, with an occasional episode of the secrets of others--the
substance of the whole being, that a counter revolution was preparing in France; that, after
conducting the correspondence in London for some time, he had been ordered to carry a despatch,
of the highest importance, to the secret agency in Paris; and that the question was now between
love and honour--Mariamne having, by some unlucky hint dropped from her father, received intimation
of the design, and putting her veto on his bearing any part in it in the most peremptory manner.
What was to be done? The unfortunate youth was fairly on the horns of the dilemma, and he obviously
saw no ray of extrication but the usual Parisian expedient of the pistol.

While he alternately raved and wept, the thought struck me--"Why might I not go in his place?"
I was growing weary of the world, however little I knew of it. I had no Mariamne either to
prohibit or to weep for me. The only being for whom I wished to live was lost to me already.
I offered myself as the carrier of the despatch without delay.

I never saw ecstasy so visible in a human being; his eloquence exhausted the whole vocabulary
of national rapture. "I was his friend, his brother, his preserver. I was the best, the ablest,
the noblest of men." But when I attempted to escape from this overflow of gratitude, by observing
on the very simple nature of the service, his recollection returned, and he generously endeavoured,
with equal zeal, to dissuade me from an enterprise of which the perils were certainly neither
few nor trifling. He was now in despair at my obstinacy. The emigration of the French princes
had not merely weakened their cause in France, but had sharpened the malice of their enemies.
Their agents had been arrested in all quarters, and any man who ventured to carry on a correspondence
with them, was now alike in danger of assassination and of the law. After debating the matter
long, without producing conviction on either side, it was at length agreed to refer the question
to Mordecai, whom Lafontaine now formally acknowledged to be master of the secret on both sides
of the Channel.

       *       *       *       *       *

A VISION OF THE WORLD.

BY DELTA.

  A blossom on a laurel tree--a cloudlet on the sky
  Borne by the breeze--a panorama shifting on the eye;
  A zig-zag lightning-flash amid the elemental strife--
  Yea! each and all are emblems of man's transitory life!
  Brightness dawns on us at our birth--the dear small world of home,
  A tiny paradise from which our wishes never roam,
  Till boyhood's widening circle brings its myriad hopes and fears,
  The guileless faith that never doubts--the friendship that endears.

  Each house and tree--each form and face, upon the ready mind
  Their impress leave; and, in old age, that impress fresh we find,
  Even though long intermediate years, by joy and sorrow sway'd,
  Should there no mirror find, and in oblivion have decay'd.
  How fearful first the shock of death! to think that even one
  Whose step we knew, whose voice we heard, should see no more the sun;
  That though a thousand years were ours, that form should never more
  Revisit, with its welcome smiles, earth's once-deserted shore!

  Look round the dwellings of the street--and tell, where now are they
  Whose tongues made glad each separate hearth, in childhood's early day;
  Now strangers, or another generation, there abide,
  And the churchyard owns their lowly graves, green-mouldering side by side!
  Spring! Summer! Autumn! Winter! then how vividly each came!
  The moonlight pure, the starlight soft, and the noontide sheath'd in flame;
  The dewy morning with her birds, and evening's gorgeous dyes,
  As if the mantles of the blest were floating through the skies.

  I laid me down, but not in sleep--and Memory flew away
  To mingle with the sounds and scenes the world had shown by day;
  Now listening to the lark, she stray'd across the flowery hill,
  Where trickles down from bowering groves the brook that turns the mill;
  And now she roam'd the city lanes, where human tongues are loud,
  And mix the lofty and the low amid the motley crowd,
  Where subtle-eyed philosophy oft heaves a sigh, to scan
  The aspiring grasp, and paltry insignificance of man!

  'Mid floods of light in festal halls, with jewels rare bedight,
  To music's soft and syren sounds, paced damosel with knight;
  It seem'd as if the fiend of grief from earthly bounds was driven,
  For there were smiles on every cheek that spake of nought but heaven;
  But, from that gilded scene, I traced the revellers one by one,
  With sad and sunken features each, unto their chambers lone;
  And of that gay and smiling crowd whose bosoms leapt to joy,
  How many might there be, I ween'd, whom care did not annoy?

  Some folded up their wearied eyes to dark unhallow'd dreams--
  The soldier to his scenes of blood, the merchant to his schemes:
  Pride, jealousy, and slighted love, robb'd woman of her rest;
  Revenge, deceit, and selfishness, sway'd man's unquiet breast.
  Some, turning to the days of youth, sigh'd o'er the sinless time
  Ere passion led the heart astray to folly, care, and crime;
  And of that dizzy multitude, from found or fancied woes,
  Was scarcely one whose slumbers fell like dew upon the rose!

  Then turn'd I to the lowly hearth, where scarcely labour brought
  The simplest and the coarsest meal that craving nature sought;
  Above, outspread a slender roof, to shield them from the rain,
  And their carpet was the verdure with which nature clothes the plain;
  Yet there the grateful housewife sat, her infant on her knee,
  Its small palms clasp'd within her own, as if likewise pray'd he;
  For ere their fingers brake the bread, from toil incessant riven,
  Son, sire, and matron bow'd their heads, and pour'd their thanks to Heaven.

  What, then, I thought, is human life, if all that thus we see
  Of pageantry and of parade devoid of pleasure be!
  If only in the conscious heart true happiness abide,
  How oft, alas! has wretchedness but grandeur's cloak to hide?
  And when upon the outward cheek a transient smile appears,
  We little reck how lately hath its bloom been damp'd by tears,
  And how the voice, whose thrillings from a light heart seem'd to rise,
  Throughout each sleepless watch of night gave utterance but to sighs.

  This was the moral, calm and deep, which to my musing thought,
  From all the varying views of man and life, reflection brought--
  That most things are not what they seem, and that the outward shows
  Of grade and rank are only masks that hide our joys and woes;
  That with the soul, the soul alone, resides the awful power,
  To light with sunshine or o'ergloom the solitary hour;
  And that the human heart is but a riddle to be read,
  When all the darkness round it now in other worlds hath fled.

  Why, then, should sorrow cloud the brow, should misery crush the heart,
  Since all life's varied changes "come like shadows, so depart?"
  There is one sun, there is one shower, to evil and to just,
  And health, and strength, and length of days, and to all the common dust:
  But as the snake throws off its skin, the soul throws off its clay,
  And soars, till purpled are its wings with everlasting day;
  God, having winnow'd with his flail the chaff from out the wheat,
  When those, who seem'd alike when here, approach'd his judgment-seat.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BANKRUPTCY OF THE GREEK KINGDOM.

             Philhellenic Drinking Song.  By B. Simmons.

In our July No. CCCXXXIII.

Sir Robert Peel, Monsieur Guizot, and Count Nesselrode, Great Britain, France, and All the
Russias, have announced to the world that the kingdom of Greece is bankrupt. The Morning Chronicle,
at a time when it was regarded as a semi-official authority on foreign affairs, declared and
certified that the king of Greece was an idiot. Verily! the battle of Navarino has proved a
most "untoward event."

In these degenerate days, a revolution is by no means so serious a matter as a bankruptcy,
and kings require rather more than the ordinary proportion of wit to keep their feet steady
in their slippery elevation. Greece is therefore clearly in a most lamentable condition, and
the British public who adopted her, and fed her for a while on every luxury, now cares very
little about her misfortunes. Sir Francis Burdett, Sir John Hobhouse, and the Right Honourable
Edward Ellice, who once acted as her trustees, and Joseph Hume--the immaculate and invulnerable
Joseph himself, who once stood forward as her champion--have forgotten her existence.

There can be no permanent sympathy where truth is wanting, but the public does not attend to
the correct translation of Graecia mendax; it ought to convey the fact, that foreigners tell
more lies about Greece than the natives themselves. Old Juvenal calls the Greeks a mendacious
set of fabulists, for recording that Xerxes made a canal through the isthmus to the north of
Mount Athos. Colonel Leake declares that the traces of the canal are visible to all men at
this day, who ride across that desert plain. The moral we wish to inculcate is, that modern
politicians should learn, from the error of the old Roman satirist, to look before they leap.
We shall now endeavour to supply our readers with an impartial account of the present condition
of the Greeks, without meddling with politics or political speculation. Our opinion is, that
the country ought not to be put in the Gazette,--nor ought the king to be sent to the hospital.
Greece is not quite bankrupt, and King Otho is not quite an idiot. Funds are scarce every where
with borrowers in this unlucky year 1843, and wit scarcer still with most men.

Our readers are aware, that Great Britain, France, and Russia, having constituted themselves
into an alliance for protecting Greece, concocted together a long series of protocols, and
selected Prince Otho of Bavaria to be King of Greece.[A] The prince was then a promising youth
of seventeen years of age, destined by his royal father to be a priest, and--his holiness the
Pope willing--in due time a cardinal. At the time of King Otho's election, a national assembly
was sitting in Greece, and a military revolution was raging in the country, in consequence
of the assassination of Capo d'Istria. The recognition of King Otho was obtained from this
national assembly by the ministers of the three protecting powers, amidst scenes of promising,
threatening, and stabbing, which will long form a deep stain on the Greek revolution, and on
European diplomacy. Mr Parish, who was subsequently secretary of the British Legation in Greece,
has described the drama, and the share which the ministers of the allied powers took in arranging
its acts.

[Footnote A: Three large volumes of papers relative to the affairs of Greece have been laid
before Parliament in 1830, 1832, 1833, and 1836.]

It was well known that King Otho and his regency could not arrive for several months; and it
appeared to be the duty of the protecting powers, who had selected a sovereign for Greece,
to maintain tranquillity in the country until the arrival of the new government. The representatives
of the allied powers shrank from this responsibility. The national assembly seemed determined
to vote two addresses--one congratulating King Otho on his selection to the throne, assuring
him of the submission of the nation, but stating to him the laws and usages of Greece, and
informing him that his new dignity imposed on him the duty of rendering justice to all men
according to the laws and institutions of Greece. This address might have failed to interest
the foreign ministers, but it became known that another was to follow--thanking the protecting
powers for the selection they had made of a monarch, but calling upon them to maintain order
in the country until the arrival of the young king, or of a legally appointed regency.

The representatives of the European powers knew that Greece was in a state of anarchy, and
that the irregular troops scattered over the country, were destroying the resources of the
new monarchy; yet to escape the responsibility of advising their courts to act, they thought
fit to persuade a few of the political leaders of different parties to unite in silencing the
observations of the representatives of the Greek nation, and looked on while a military insurrection
compelled the assembly to adopt a decree in the following words--

    "The representatives of the Greek
    nation recognise and confirm the selection
    of H.R.H. Prince Otho of Bavaria as
    King of Greece.

    "The present decree shall be inserted
    in the acts of the assembly, and published
    by the press."

The military rabble outside then rushed in and dispersed the representatives of the Greek nation.
No rhetorical Greek ever prepared this precious decree. It tells its own tale; it is too diplomatically
laconic. It served its purpose in Europe: it looked so well suited to act as an annex to a
protocol. Here, however, we have the source of half the evils of the Greek monarchy. King Otho's
reign commenced with a violation of law, order, and common sense; and as this violation of
every principle of justice had been openly countenanced by the political agents of the protecting
powers, King Otho was misled into a belief that Great Britain, France, and Russia, wished to
deliver Greece, bound hand and foot, and despoiled of every right, into his hands.

Various reasons, at the time, induced the Greeks to submit to these proceedings without a murmur,
and even to turn away from those who endeavoured to raise a warning voice. The truth is, no
sacrifice was too great, which held out a hope of putting an end to the existing anarchy. About
thirteen thousand irregular troops were occupying the richest part of Greece, and destroying
or consuming every thing that had escaped the Turks. The cattle and sheep of the peasantry
were seized, the olive trees cut down for fuel; and while the people were dying of hunger,
literally perishing for want of food, these banditti were feasting in abundance. The political
Greeks, the jackals of diplomacy, cajolled the people and the soldiers, by declaring that the
allied powers had furnished the king with money to pay the troops, and to indemnify every man
for the losses sustained during the revolution.

King Otho and his regency did at last arrive, and they brought with them an army of Bavarians.
The king was received with a degree of enthusiasm, and with proofs of devotion which would
have touched any hearts not protected by an impenetrable padding of beer and sour crout. But
it was, unfortunately for the young king, the fashion at the new court to despise and distrust
the Greeks, to underrate their exploits, and to declaim against their honesty. The revolution
was treated as a war of words, the defence of Missolonghi as a trifle, and the naval warfare
as a farce. The Greeks have since, on the mountains of Maina, and on the plain of Phthiotis,
shown themselves so far superior to the Bavarians when engaged in the field, that we shall
say nothing on that subject. Their honesty has been generally considered more questionable
than their courage; for though the names of Miaulis, Kanaris, Marco Botzaris, Niketas, Kolocotroni
and Karaiskaki are known to all Europe, the only spotless statesman, in the opinion of the
Greeks themselves, is the unknown Kanakaris. The arrival of the king, however, afforded singular
proof of the strong feeling of patriotism and honesty which prevailed among the people.

The Bavarians arrived in Greece early in 1833, and the revenues for that year were estimated,
by competent persons, at four millions of drachmas; but it was thought that the regency would
not succeed in collecting more than three millions, as their recent arrival prevented their
enforcing a strict system of control. It was necessary, therefore, to trust much to the honesty
of the people, usually a poor guarantee for large payments into the exchequer of any country.
But the Greeks felt that their national independence was connected with the stability of the
new government, and they acted with true nobility of feeling on the occasion. The revenues
received by the king's government in 1833, amounted to upwards of seven millions of drachmas,
although two months elapsed before some of the provinces were relieved from the burden of maintaining
the irregular soldiery at free quarters. We believe that there never was a government in the
world which received the amount of the taxes imposed on the people with such perfect good faith,
as the Greek government in 1833. The expenditure of the government for that year, amounted
to something more than thirteen millions and a half, and if Greece had been governed with the
honesty shown by the Greek people, the expenditure of future years would never have exceeded
that sum.

[We subjoin a statement of the revenues and expenditure of Greece, for those in which the Greek
government have condescended to publish their accounts.

       REVENUE.                     EXPENDITURE.
               Drachmas.                    Drachmas.
1833, . . . .  7,042,653     1833, . . . . 13,630,467
1834, . . . .  9,455,410     1834, . . . . 20,150,657
1835, . . . . 10,737,011     1835, . . . . 16,851,070
1836, . . . . 12,381,000     1836, . . . . 16,447,126
1837, . . . . 13,313,393     1837, . . . . 16,190,527

After the king took the entire direction of public business into his own hands, he gave up
publishing any accounts, and accordingly none have appeared in the Greek Gazette for the years
1838, 1839, 1840, and 1841. Financial difficulties pressing hard in 1842, his Majesty resumed
the practice to a certain degree, by publishing a budget:--

       REVENUE.                           EXPENDITURE.
                     Drachmas.                    Drachmas.
1842,  estimated at 17,834,000     1842, . . . . 19,395,022
1843, . . . .       14,407,795     1843, . . . . 18,666,482

We may remark, that not the smallest reliance can be placed on these budgets for the years
1842 and 1843. We are informed that 1,000,000 drachmas of the revenue of 1842 were still unpaid
in the month of May 1843.]

We shall now endeavour to explain why the king's government has proved so inefficient in improving
the country, and afterwards examine the various causes of its extreme unpopularity. To do this,
it is necessary to state what the government has really done; and also, what it was expected
to do. We shall try as we go along, to explain the part the protecting powers have acted in
thwarting the progress of improvement, and in encouraging the court in its lavish expenditure
and anti-national policy. It must, indeed, constantly be borne in mind by the reader, that
the three protecting powers in their collective capacity have all along supported the government
of King Otho--and that even when the Morning Chronicle called King Otho an idiot, and Lord
Palmerston quarrelled with him and scolded him, still England joined the other powers in continuing
to supply him with money to continue his immense palace, and pay his Bavarian aides-de-camp.
We may add, too, that if it had been otherwise, had either Great Britain, France, or Russia,
deliberately abandoned the alliance, King Otho would immediately have ceased to be King of
Greece, unless supported on his throne by the direct interference of the other two. Had the
Greeks not looked upon him as the pledge that the protecting powers would maintain order in
the country, they would have sent him back to his royal father, as ornamental at Munich, where
an additional king would make the town look gayer, but as utterly useless in Greece. Though,
England, France, and Russia, have therefore each in their turn acted in opposition to King
Otho, still they have always as a body supported his doings, right or wrong.

Let us now see what the government of King Otho has done for Greece. From 1833 until 1837,
Greece was governed by Bavarian ministers, and accordingly the king was not considered directly
responsible for the conduct of the administration. These ministers were Mr Maurer, who, during
1833 and part of 1834, directed the government. He was supported with great eagerness by France,
and opposed with more energy by England. The liberal and anti-Russian tendency of his measures,
alarmed Russia, but she showed her opposition with considerable moderation. Count Armansperg
succeeded Mr Maurer, and he ruled Greece with almost absolute power for two years. He was supported
by Lord Palmerston with the energy of the most determined partizanship. The institutions of
Greece, liberal policy, and sound principles of commercial legislation, were all forgotten,
because Count Armansperg was anti-Russian. The opposition of France and Russia was strongly
announced, but restrained within reasonable bounds. Mr Rudhart succeeded Count Armansperg.
He, poor man! was assailed by England with all the artillery of Palmerston; and as neither
France nor Russia would undertake to support so unfit a person, he was driven from his post.

The Greek government enjoyed every possible advantage during the administration of these Bavarians.
A loan of £.2,400,000, contracted under the guarantee of the three protecting powers, kept
the treasury full; so that no plan for the improvement of Greece, or for enriching the Bavarians,
was arrested for want of funds. We shall now pass in review what was done.

1. A good monetary system was established. The allies, it is true, supplied the metal, but
the Bavarians deserve the merit of transferring as much of it as they could into their own
pockets, in a very respectable coinage.

2. The irregular troops were disbanded, and many of them driven over the frontier into Turkey.
The thing was very clumsily done; but, thank Heaven! it was done, and Greece was delivered
from this horde of banditti.

3. Every Bavarian officer or cadet was promoted, and every Greek officer was reduced to a lower
rank. We cannot venture to describe the rage of the Greeks, nor the presumption of the Bavarians.

4. An order of knighthood was created, of which the decorations were distributed in the following
manner: One hundred and twenty-five grand crosses, and crosses of grand commanders, were divided
as follows: The protecting powers received ninety-one, that is thirty a-piece if they agreed
to divide fairly. The odd one was really given to Baron Rothschild, as contractor of the loan.
The Bavarians took twenty-three. The Greeks received ten for services during the war of the
revolution, and during the national assembly which accepted King Otho, and one was bestowed
among the foreigners who had served Greece during the war with Turkey. Six hundred and fourteen
crosses of inferior rank were distributed, and of these the Greeks received only one hundred
and forty-five; so that really the protecting powers and the Bavarians reserved for themselves
rather more than a fair proportion of this portion of the loan, especially if they expected
the Greeks not to become bankrupt.

5. All the Greek civil servants of King Otho were put into light blue uniforms, covered with
silver lace, at one hundred pounds sterling a-head. And, O Gemini! such uniforms! Those who
have seen the ambassador of his Hellenic majesty at the court of St James's, at a levee or
a drawing-room, will not soon forget the merits of his tailor.

6. Ambassadors were sent to Paris, London, St. Petersburg, Munich, Madrid, Berlin, Vienna,
and Constantinople, and Consuls-general to all the ends of the earth.

7. A council of state was formed.

8. The civil government was organized, and royal governors appointed in all the provinces,
who maintain a direct correspondence with the minister of the interior.

9. A very respectable judicial administration was formed, and codes of civil and criminal procedure
published.

10. The Greek Church was organized on a footing which rendered it independent of the patriarch
at Constantinople without causing a schism. This is unquestionably the ablest act of Mr Maurer's
administration, and it drew on him the whole hatred of Russia.

11. The communal and municipal system of Greece, the seat of the vitality of the Greek nation,
was adopted as the foundation of the social edifice in the monarchy. It is true some injudicious
Bavarian modifications were made; but time will soon consign to oblivion these delusions of
Teutonic intellect.

12. The liberty of the press was admitted to be an inherent right of Greek citizens.

The five last-mentioned measures are entirely due to the liberal spirit and sound legal knowledge
of Mr Maurer, who, if he had been restrained from meddling with diplomacy, and quarreling with
the English and Russian ministers at Nauplia, would have been universally regarded as a most
useful minister. But all the practical good Greece has derived from the Bavarians, is confined
to a few of his acts.

The accession of Count Armansperg to power, opened a new scene. A certain number of Greeks
were then admitted to high and lucrative employments, on condition that they would support
the Bavarian system, and declare that their country was not yet fit for the enjoyment of constitutional
liberty. The partizans of Mr Maurer were dismissed and sent back to Bavaria: a few good bribes
were given to newspaper editors and noisy democrats; but the Bavarians were kept in the possession
of the richest part of the spoil. Accordingly, the cry of the Greeks against Bavarian influence
and Bavarian rapacity never ceased. Rudhart's government was a continuation of that of Armansperg,
only with the difference that he leaned on a different foreign power for support. Neither Armansperg
nor Rudhart conferred any benefit on Greece. They formed a phalanx or corps of veterans; but
as they laid down no invariable rules for admission, but kept the door open as a means of creating
a party among the military, this institution has become a scene of jobbing and abuse.

A law conferring a portion of land on every Greek family was passed; but as it was intended
to serve political purposes, it was never put into general execution. A number of sales of
national lands has been made under it, in direct violation of every principle of law and justice;
and as detached pieces of the richest plains in Greece have been alienated in this way, the
resources of the country will be found to have been very seriously diminished by this singular
species of wholesale corruption.

Rudhart was compelled from his weakness to make one or two steps in the national path. He assembled
the council of state, and called the provincial councils and the university into activity.

We have now arrived at the period when King Otho assumed the reins of government. From the
year 1838 to the present day, he has been his own irresponsible prime minister; for the apparent
ministers Zographos, Païkos, Maurocordatos and Rizos, have never enjoyed his unlimited confidence,
nor have they been viewed with much favour by the people. Indeed, with the exception of Maurocordatos,
they are men of inferior ability, and of no character or standing in the country. Any one who
will take the trouble to read those portions of their diplomatic correspondence with the ministers
of the allied powers at Athens, which have been published, will be convinced of their utter
unfitness for the offices they have held. Let the reader contrast these precious specimens
of inaccuracy and rigmarole, with the come-to-the-truth style of our own minister, or the sarcastic,
let-us-go-quietly-over-your-reasoning style, in which the Russian minister answers them.

In order that our readers may form some idea of the manner in which King Otho has carried on
the government for five years, we shall describe the political machine he has framed--name
it we cannot; for it resembles nothing the world has yet seen amidst all the multifarious combinations
of cabinet-making, which kings, sultans, krals, emperors, czars, or khans, have yet presented
to the envious contemplation of aspiring statesmen. The king of Greece, it must be observed,
is a monarch whose ministers are held by a fiction of law to be responsible; and the editor
of an Athenian newspaper has been fined and imprisoned for declaring that this fiction is not
a fact. These ministers are not permitted by King Otho to assemble together in council, unless
he himself be present. The assembly would be too democratic for Otho's nerves. In short, the
king has a ministry, but his ministers do not form a cabinet; his cabinet is a separate concern.
Each minister waits on his majesty with his portfolio under his arm, and receives the royal
commands. To simplify business, however, and make the ministers fully sensible of their real
insignificancy, King Otho frequently orders the clerks in the public offices to come to his
royal presence, with the papers on which they have been engaged; and by this means he shows
the ministers, that though they are necessary in consequence of the fiction of law, they may
be rendered very secondary personages in their own departments. If it were not a useless waste
of time, we could lay before our readers instances of this singularly easy mode of doing business--instances
too, which have been officially communicated to the allied powers. His majesty carried his
love of performing ministerial duties so far, that for more than a year he dispensed entirely
with a minister of finance, and divided the functions of that office among three of the clerks:
no bad preparation for a national bankruptcy, we must allow--yet the protecting powers viewed
this political vagary of his majesty with perfect indifference.

The most singular feature of King Otho's government is his cabinet, or, as the Greek newspapers
call it, "the Camarilla." This cabinet has no official constitution; yet its members put their
titles on the visiting cards which they leave, as advertisements of the existence of this irresponsible
body, at the houses of the foreign ministers. It consists, or until the late financial difficulties
deranged all the royal plans, it consisted, of four Bavarians and two Greeks. Its duty is to
prepare projects of laws to be adopted by the different ministers, and to assist the king in
selecting individuals appointed to public offices. This is the feature which excites the greatest
indignation at Athens; the minister of war does not dare to promote a corporal; the minister
of public instruction would tremble to send a village schoolmaster to a country demos, even
at the expense of the citizens; and the minister of finance would not risk the responsibility
of conferring the office of porter of the customhouse at Parras, before receiving the royal
instructions how to act on such emergencies, and ascertaining what creature of the camarilla
it was necessary to provide for.

We have already mentioned the council of state; it consists of about twenty individuals chosen
by his majesty, a motley congregation--some cannot read--others cannot write--some came to
Greece after the revolution was over--some, long after the king himself. This council is, by
one of the fictions of law so common in the Hellenic kingdom, supposed to form a legislative
council, and it is implied that it ought to be considered as tantamount to a representative
assembly. Some of its members are most brave and respectable men, who have rendered Greece
good service; but since they were decked out in silver uniforms, and received large salaries
to form a portion of the court pageant, they have lost much of their influence in the country,
either for good or evil. The king looks upon these patriotic members as an insignificant minority,
or an ignorant majority, as the case may be, and he has more than once set aside the opposition
of this council, by publishing laws rejected by a majority of its members. To speak a plain
truth in rude phrase--the council of state is a farce.

King Otho, with his Greek ministers, his Bavarian cabinet, and his motley council of state,
is therefore, to all appearance, a more absolute sovereign than his neighbour, Abdul Meschid.
But we must now leave the royal authority, and turn our attention to an important chapter in
the Greek question; one which nevertheless has not hitherto met with proper study either from
the king, his allies, or the public in Western Europe--we mean the institutions of the Greek
people.

The inhabitants of Greece consist of two classes, who, from having been placed for many ages
in totally different circumstances, are extremely different in manners and in civilization.
These are the population of the towns or the commercial class, and the inhabitants of the country
or the agricultural class. The traders have usually been considered by strangers as affording
the true type of the Greek character; but a very little reflection ought to have convinced
any one, that the insecurity of the Turkish government, and the constant change in the channels
of trade in the East, had given this class of the population a most Hebraical indifference
to "the dear name of country." To the Fanariote and the Sciote, Wallachia or Trieste were delightful
homes, if dollars were plentiful. But the agricultural population of Greece was composed of
very different materials. We are inclined to consider them as the most obstinately patriotic
race on which the sun shines; their patriotism is a passion and an instinct, and, from being
restricted to their village or their district, often looks quite as like a vice as a virtue.
This class is altogether so unlike any portion of the population of Western Europe, that we
should be more likely to mislead than to enlighten our readers by attempting to describe it.
The peasants are themselves inclined to distrust the population of the towns, and look on Bavarians,
Fanariotes, and government officers, as a tribe of enemies embodying different degrees of rapacity
under various names. They have as yet derived little benefit from the government of King Otho,
for their taxes are greater now than they were under the Turks, and they very sagaciously attribute
the existence of order in Greece to the alliance of the kings of the Franks, not to the military
prowess of the Bavarians.

There is a third class of men in Greece who hold in some degree the position of an aristocracy.
This class is composed of all those individuals who from education are entitled to hold government
appointments; and at the head of this class figure the Fanariotes or Greek families who were
in the habit of serving under the Turkish government. Many of the Fanariotes move about seeking
their fortunes, from Greece to Turkey, Wallachia, and Moldavia, and vice versa. One brother
will be found holding an office in the suite of the Prince of Moldavia, and another in the
court of King Otho. This class is more attached to foreign influence than to Greek independence,
and is almost as generally unpopular in the country as the Bavarians; and perhaps not without
reason, as it supplies the court with abler and more active instruments than could be found
among the dull Germans.

We must now notice the great peculiarity of the national constitution of the Greeks as a distinct
people. There is indeed a singular difference in the organization of the European nations,
which does not always meet with due attention from historians. The various governments of Europe
are divided into absolute and constitutional; but it is seldom considered necessary to explain
whether the people are ruled by officers appointed by the central authority of the state, or
by magistrates elected by local assemblies of the people. Yet, as the character of a nation
is more important in history than the form of its government, it is as much the duty of the
historian to examine the institutions of the people, as it is the business of the politician
to be acquainted with the action of the government. To illustrate this, we shall describe in
general terms the political constitution of the Greeks, and leave our readers to compare it
with the share enjoyed by the French, and some other of the constitutional nations, in their
own local government. After all the boasted liberty and equality of the subjects of the Citizen
King, we own that we consider that the Greeks possess national institutions resting on a surer
and more solid basis.

All Greece is, and always has been, divided into communities enjoying the right of choosing
their own magistrates, and these magistrates decide a number of police and administrative questions
not affecting crimes and rights of property. The most populous town, and the smallest hamlet,
equally exercise this privilege, and it is to its existence that the Greeks owe the power of
resistance they were enabled to exert against their Roman and Turkish masters. We shall not
enter into the history of this institution, under the Turks, at present; as it is sufficient
for our purpose to give our readers a correct idea of the existing state of things. A local
elective magistracy is formed, which prevents the central government from goading the people
to insurrection by the insolence of office which the inferior agents of an ill-organized administration
constantly display. Fortunately for the tranquillity of the country, the local administration
works its way onward through the daily difficulties which present themselves, independent of
king, ministers, councillors of state, or royal governors.

In order to make our description as exact as possible, without presenting a vague statistical
view of the whole kingdom, for the accuracy of which we would not pretend to answer, we confine
our observations to the province of Attica, concerning which we have been able to obtain official
information from all the communes.

There is, of course, a royal governor in Attica, who resides at Athens; he is named on the
responsibility of the minister of the interior, with whom he is in daily correspondence, and
is the organ of communication between the royal government and the popular magistracy. Of course,
in the present state of things, the officer is appointed by King Otho himself, who has made
it a point of statesmanship to keep a person in the place quite as much disposed to serve as
a spy on all the ministers, as inclined to execute with zeal the orders of his immediate superior.

The population of Attica is divided into seven communes or demarchies.[B]

[Footnote B: To this population of 33,909, must be added the troops and strangers in Athens,
and at the Piraeus, who are not citizens. They generally exceed three thousand.]

1. Athens, containing  .  22,309 inhabitants.
2. Piraeus,  .    .    .    2099    ...
3. Kekropia, .    .    .    2158    ...
4. Marathon, .    .    .    1214    ...
5. Phyle,    .    .    .    2659    ...
6. Laurion,  .    .    .    1470    ...
7. Kalamos,  .    .    .    2000    ...
                          ------
                          33,909

It will be enough for our purpose to describe the local constitution of the city of Athens,
and then point out the slight variations which circumstances render necessary in the secluded
agricultural communes of the province.

The magistrates of Athens consist of a demarch (provost), six paredhroi (bailies), and a town
council composed of eighteen members. The town-council is selected by all the citizens, who
vote by signed lists, containing the names of thirty-six individuals. The eighteen who have
a majority of votes become members of the town-council, and the remaining eighteen who have
the greatest number form a list of supplementary members to supply vacancies, and prevent any
election being necessary except at the stated periods provided by law. The election of the
demarch and paredhroi is a more complicated affair. The eighteen members chosen to form the
town-council, and eighteen citizens who are the highest tax-payers in the community, then meet
together under the presidency of the royal governor of the province. This meeting first proceeds
to elect two of its number to open the ballot-box, and assist and control the conduct of the
royal governor, as vice-presidents of the assembly. The election proceeds, the persons present
voting by ballot. The names of candidates for the office of demarch must be returned, from
which the king selects one, and six paredhroi chosen, who must all have an absolute majority
of votes. The indirect election of the demarch is extremely unpopular, as it has no effect
except to enable the king to exclude two popular but uncourtly citizens from every municipal
office.

The plan of election in the country districts is precisely similar, but the town-council is
less numerous, and each village has its own resident paredhros. The election of the demarch
and of the paredhroi is conducted as at Athens, and the royal governor of the province is compelled
to visit each commune in turn, in order to preside at the election. The whole system rests
on a popular basis. Every citizen possessing property, or enrolled in the list of citizens
from paying taxes, enjoys a vote in the election of the magistrates of his demos. The royal
authority only concurs in so far as is required to preserve order, and give an official certificate
of the legality of the proceedings.

We come now to another popular institution, which gives a great degree of political strength
to the municipal organization of Greece, and protects its liberties in a manner unknown in
most other countries. Each province possesses a provincial council, the members of which are
elected by the citizens of the different demoi into which the province is divided--a demos
containing 2000 inhabitants, sends one representative; a demos with 10,000 but exceeding 2000,
sends two representatives; and a demos having more than 10,000 inhabitants, sends three. Here,
however, the electors are required to pay fifty drachmas of direct taxes to the general government
in order to be entitled to vote.[C]

[Footnote C: Twenty-eight drachmas make a pound sterling.]

It will be seen, on referring to the population of the Attic demoi, that the provincial council
of Attica consists of twelve members, and these members are elected for six years. The restriction
on the electors is not unpopular in Greece, as it is connected with an extended suffrage in
the municipal elections. Upwards of 500 citizens voted in Athens at the last elections of provincial
councillors. The provincial councils meet every year in the months of February or March, as
that is the season when the landed proprietors in the country can most conveniently absent
themselves from their farms. The council chooses its own president and secretary, but the royal
governor of the province has the right to attend its meeting. The budget of each demos must
be presented to the council and approved by it, and it has the power of rejecting any item
of expenditure; but it can only recommend, not enforce, any additional expense. It is likewise
the business of the provincial council to examine the grounds on which any demos solicits the
power of imposing local taxes: it proposes also general improvements for the whole province,
and has the power of assessing the taxes necessary for carrying them into effect. Roads, barracks
for gendarmes, prisons, hospitals, and schools, are objects of its attention. Its acts must
all be presented to the minister of the interior at the conclusion of the session, and they
acquire validity only from the time the minister communicates the royal assent to the proceedings.

This system of popular government, in all matters directly connected with the daily business
of the citizens, is a wise arrangement, and it has proved a powerful engine for the preservation
of order amidst a population accustomed to anarchy, revolution, and despotism; and it has also
formed a firm barrier against the tyrannical aspirations of the Bavarians. Indeed, had King
Otho's government not been prevented, by this municipal system, from coming into daily contact
with the people, we are persuaded that it would long ago have thrown Greece into convulsions,
and caused the massacre of every Bavarian in the country.

From the account we have given of the royal central government on the one hand, and of the
local magistracy on the other, it will be evident to our readers that there are two powers
at work in Greece, which, unless they are united in the pursuit of some common objects, must
at last engage in a contest for the mastery.

We shall now notice the newspaper allegation, that the Greek court is composed entirely of
Bavarians. This was once the case, but it ceased to be strictly true from the moment Armansperg
introduced the system of bribing the Greeks to join the Bavarian party; and at present the
government is supported almost entirely by Greek deserters from the national cause. There is
now no Bavarian in the ministry, and there are Greeks in the cabinet. Many of the Greeks who
affect with foreigners to be loud in their complaints against the Bavarians, are, in the administration,
the most strenuous supporters of King Otho's system, and, like Maurocordatos, the declared
opponents of a national assembly and of a representative form of government. They declare to
the king that it is necessary to retain some Bavarians in Greece, and they really wish it done
in order to exclude their Greek rivals from office. A revolution, followed by a foreign government,
and a lavish expenditure, has demoralized sterner stuff than Greek politicians are made of,
so that it is more to be regretted than wondered at, when it appears that the Greek court has
an unusually large supply of venal political adventurers always ready to enter its service.

This band consists of the Fanariotes, who were trained to official aptitude and immorality
under the Turks--of the politicians of the revolution who deserted the cause of their country
for the service of the protecting powers at the last national assembly--and of a large class
of educated men not bred to commerce, who have resorted to Greece to make their fortunes, and
are now ready to accept places under any government. The court, in its ignorance of Greece,
has often purchased the services of these men at their own valuation; and from this cause originates
the crowd of incapable councillors of state, useless ambassadors and consuls, ignorant ministerial
councillors and royal governors, and dishonest commissaries, who assemble round King Otho in
his palace. But time is rolling on--ten years have elapsed since King Otho first stepped on
the Hellenic soil--the heroes of the war are sinking into the grave--Miaulis, the best of the
brave--Zaimi, the sagacious timid Moreote noble--Kolocotroni, the sturdy strewd old klephtic
chieftain;--these three representatives and leaders of numerous classes of their countrymen,
now sleep in an honoured grave, and their followers no longer form a majority in the land.
A new race has arisen, a race equal in education to the Maurocordatos, Rizos, Souizos, Karadjas,
Tricoupis, and Kolettis, and possessing the immense advantage over these men of occupying a
social position of greater independence. The fiery vehemence of youth placed most of these
new men in the opposition when they entered on life. A political career being closed, they
were, fortunately for their country, obliged to devote all their attention to the cultivation
of their estates, and content themselves with improving their vineyards and olive plantations
instead of governing their country. Years have now brought an increase of wealth, habits of
moderation, steadiness of purpose, and feelings of independence.

In a country such as we have described Greece, and we flatter ourselves our description will
bear examination on the part of travellers and diplomatic gentlemen, we ask if there can be
any doubt of the ultimate success of popular institutions? For our own part, we feel persuaded
that Greece can only escape from a fierce civil war by the convocation of a national representative
assembly.--We adopted this opinion from the moment that the Bavarian government was unable
to destroy the liberty of the press, after plunging into the contest and awakening the political
passions of the people. When a sovereign attacks a popular institution without provocation,
and fails in his attack, and when the people show that concentrated energy which inspires the
prudence necessary to use victory with a moderation which produces no reaction against their
cause, their victory is sure. Under such circumstances a nation can patiently wait the current
of events. If Greece exist as a monarchy, we believe it will soon have a national assembly;
and if King Otho remain its sovereign, we have a fancy that he will not long delay convoking
one. Nothing, indeed, can long prevent some representative body from meeting together, unless
it be the interference, direct or indirect, of the three protecting powers. They, indeed, have
strength sufficient to become the Three Protecting Tyrants.

We hope that we have now given a tolerably intelligible account of King Otho's government,
and how it stands. We shall, therefore, proceed to the second division of our enquiry, and
strive to explain the actual state of public feeling in Greece; what the king's government
was expected to do, and what it has left undone. We may be compelled here to glance at a few
delicate and contested questions in Greek politics, on which, however, we shall not pretend
to offer any opinion of our own, but merely collect the facts; and we advise all men who wish
to form a decided opinion on such a question, to wait patiently until they have been discussed
in a national assembly of Greeks.

The first great question on which the government of King Otho was expected to decide, was the
means necessary to be adopted for discharging the internal debt contracted for carrying on
the war against the Turks. This debt resolved itself into two heads: payment for services,
and repayment of money advanced. The national assemblies which had met during the revolution,
had decreed that every man who served in the army should, at the conclusion of the war, receive
a grant of land. It was proposed that King Otho should carry these decrees into execution,
by framing lists of all those who had served either in the army, the navy, or in civil employments.
The same registers which contain the lists of the citizens of the various communes, could have
been rendered available for the purpose of verifying the services of each individual. A fixed
number of acres might then have been destined to each man, according to his rank and time of
service. This measure would have enabled the Greek government to say, that it had kept faith
with the people. It would have induced many of the military to settle as landed proprietors
when the first current of enthusiasm in favour of peaceful occupations set in, and it would
have been the means of silencing many pretensions of powerful military chiefs, whose silence
has since been dearly purchased.

The royal government always resisted these demands of the Greeks, and the consequence was,
that when it was necessary to yield from fear, Count Armansperg adopted a law of dotation,
which, under the appearance of being a general measure, was only carried into application in
cases where partisanship was established; and yet national lands have been alienated to a far
greater extent than would have satisfied every claim arising out of the revolutionary war.
The king, it is true, has in late years made donations of national land to favoured individuals,
to maids of honour, Turkish neophytes, and Bavarian brides; and he has rewarded several political
renegades with currant lands, and held out hopes of conferring villages on councillors of state
who have been eager defenders of the court; but all this has been openly done as a matter of
royal favour.

With regard to the second class of claimants. Common honesty, if royal gratitude go for nothing
in Greece, required that those who advanced money to their country in her day of need, should
be repaid their capital. All interest might have been refused--the glory of their disinterested
conduct was all the reward they wanted; for few of them would have demanded repayment of the
sums due had they been rich enough to offer them as a gift. The refusal of King Otho to repay
these sums when he lavished money on his Bavarian favourites and Greek partizans, has probably
lowered his character more, both in the East and in Europe, than any of those errors in diplomacy
which induced the Morning Chronicle to publish, that several Bavarians of rank had written
a certificate of his being an idiot, and forwarded it to his royal father. The sum required
to pay up all the claims of this class, would not have exceeded the agency paid by King Otho
to his Bavarian banker for remitting the loan contracted at Paris to Greece, by the rather
circuitous route of Munich.

It was also expected by the Greeks that one of the first acts of the royal government would
have been to abolish the duty on all articles carried by sea from one part of the kingdom to
another; this duty amounted to six per cent, and was not abolished until the late demands of
the three protecting powers for prompt payment of the money due to them by his Hellenic majesty,
rendered King Otho rather more amenable to public opinion than he had been previously. A decree
was accordingly published a few months ago, abolishing this most injurious tax, the preamble
of which declares, with innocent naïveté, that the duty thus levied is not based on principles
of equal taxation, but bears oppressively on particular classes.[D] Alas! poor King Otho! he
begins to abolish unjust taxation when his exchequer is empty, and when his creditors are threatening
him with the Gazette; and yet he delays calling together a national assembly. It is possible
that, little by little, King Otho may be persuaded by circumstances to become a tolerable constitutional
sovereign at last; but we fear our old friend Hadgi Ismael Bey--may his master never diminish
the length of his shadow!--will say on this occasion, as we have heard him say on some others,
"Machallah! Truly, the sense of the ghiaour doth arrive after the mischief!" But we hold no
opinions in common with Hadgi Ismael Bey, who drinketh water, despiseth the Greek, and hateth
the Frank. Our own conjecture is, that King Otho has been studying the history of Theopompus,
one of his Spartan predecessors who, like himself, occupied barely half a throne. Colleagues
and ephori were in times past as unpleasant associates in the duties of government as protecting
powers now are. Now Theopompus looked not lovingly on those who shared his royalty, but as
he understood the signs of the times, he sought to make friends at Sparta by establishing a
popular council, that is to say, he convoked a national assembly. Thus, by diminishing the
pretensions of royalty, he increased its power. Let King Otho do the same, and if some luckless
Bavarian statesmen upbraid him with having thrown away his power, let him reply--"No, my friend,
I have only rendered the Bavarian dynasty more durable in Greece." [Greek: Oi deta, paraoioômi
gar ten basileian poluchroniôteran.] If King Otho would once a day recall to his mind the defence
of Missolonghi, if he would reflect on the devotion shown to the cause of their country by
the whole population of Greece, he would surely feel prouder of identifying his name and fortunes
with a country so honoured and adored, than of figuring in Bavarian history as the protector
of the artists who has reared the enormous palace he has raised at Athens.

[Footnote D: This decree was published in the Athena newspaper, and is dated the 20th of April
1843. It does not appear to have been published until some weeks later.]

The Greeks expected that a civilized government would have taken measures for improving the
internal communications of the country, and exerted itself to open new channels of commercial
enterprise. They had hoped to see some part of the loan expended in the formation of roads,
and in establishing regular packets to communicate with the islands. The best road the loan
ever made, was one to the marble quarries of Pentelicus in order to build the new palace, and
the only packets in Greece were converted by his majesty into royal yachts.[E] The regency,
it is true, made a decree announcing their determination to make about 250 miles of road. But
their performances were confined to repairing the road from Nauplia to Argos, which had been
made by Capo d'Istria. The Greek government, however, has now completed the famous road to
the marble quarries, a road of six miles in length to the Piraeus, and another of five miles
across the isthmus of Corinth. The King of Bavaria very nearly had his neck broken on a road
said to have been then practicable between Argos and Corinth. We can answer for its being now
perfectly impassable for a carriage. Two considerable military roads are, however, now in progress,
one from Athens to Thebes, and another from Argos to Tripolitza. But these roads have been
made without any reference to public utility, merely to serve for marching troops and moving
artillery, and consequently the old roads over the mountains, as they require less time, are
alone used for commercial transport.

[Footnote E: This is no exaggeration. We once visited the island of Santorin, which has a population
of 9000 souls, who own 46 vessels of 200 tons and upwards, besides many smaller craft. King
Otho was sailing about in one steamer at the time, and another was acting the man-of-war amidst
a fleet of English, French, Prussian, and Austrian frigates in the front of the Piraeus; yet
no post had been forwarded to Santorin for a fortnight. Santorin is about 90 miles from Athens,
and yields a very considerable revenue to the Greek monarchy.]

It is evident that a poor peasantry, possessing no other means of transport than their mules
and pack-horses, must reckon distance entirely by time, and the only way to make them perceive
the advantages to be derived from roads, is forming such bridle-paths as will enable them to
arrive at their journey's end a few hours sooner. The Greek government never though of doing
this, and every traveller who has performed the journey from Patras to Athens, must have seen
fearful proofs of this neglect in the danger he ran of breaking his neck at the Kaka-scala
or cursed stairs of Megara.

Nay, King Otho's government has employed its vis inertiae in preventing the peasantry, even
when so inclined, from forming roads at their own expense; for the peasantry of Greece are
far more enlightened than the Bavarians. In the year 1841, the provincial council of Attica
voted that the road from Kephisia--the marble-quarry road--should be continued through the
province of Attica as far as Oropos. Provision was made for its immediate commencement by the
labour of the communes through which it was to pass. Every farmer possessing a yoke of oxen
was to give three days' labour during the year, and every proprietor of a larger estate was
to supply a proportional amount of labour, or commute it for a fixed rate of payment in money.
This arrangement gave universal satisfaction. Government was solicited to trace the line of
road; but a year passed--one pretext for delay succeeding another, and nothing was done. The
provincial council of 1842 renewed the vote, and government again prevented its being carried
into execution. It is said that his Majesty is strongly opposed to the system of allowing the
Greeks to get the direction of any public business into their own hands; and that he would
rather see his kingdom without roads than see the municipal authorities boasting of performing
that which the central government was unable to accomplish.

We shall only trouble our readers with a single instance of the manner in which commercial
legislation has been treated in Greece. We could with great ease furnish a dozen examples.
Austrian timber pays an import duty of six per cent, in virtue of a commercial treaty between
Royal Greece and Imperial Austria. Greek timber cut on the mountains round Athens pays an excise
duty of ten per cent; and the value of the Greek timber on the mountains is fixed according
to the sales made at Athens of Austrian timber, on which the freight and duty have been paid.
The effect can be imagined. In our visit to Greece we spent a few days shooting woodcocks with
a fellow-countryman, who possesses an Attic farm in the mountains, near Deceleia. His house
was situated amidst fine woods of oak and pine; yet he informed us that the floors, doors,
and windows, were all made of timber from Trieste, conveyed from Athens on the backs of mules.
The house had been built by contract; and though our friend gave the contractor permission
to cut the wood he required within five hundred yards of the house, he found that, what with
the high duty demanded by the government, and with the delays and difficulties raised by the
officers charged with the valuation, who were Bavarian forest inspectors, the most economical
plan was to purchase foreign timber. The consequence of this is, the Greeks burn down timber
as unprofitable, and convert the land into pasturage. We have seen many square miles of wood
burning on Mount Pentelicus; and on expressing our regret to a Greek minister, he shrugged
up his shoulders and said: "That, sir, is the way in which the Bavarian foresters take care
of the forests." Yet this Greek, who could sneakingly ridicule the folly of the Bavarians,
was too mean to recommend the king to change the law.

Let us now turn to a more enlivening subject of contemplation, and see what the Greeks have
done towards improving their own condition. We shall pass without notice all their exertions
to lodge and feed themselves, or fill their purses. We can trust any people on those points;
our observations shall be confined to the moral culture. We say that the Greeks deserve some
credit for turning their attention towards their own improvement, instead of adopting the Gallican
system of reform, and raising a revolution against King Otho. They seem to have set themselves
seriously to work to render themselves worthy of that liberty, the restoration of which they
have so long required in vain from the allied powers. There is, perhaps, no feature in the
Greek revolution more remarkable than the eager desire for education manifested by all classes.
The central government threw so many impediments in the way of the establishment of a university,
that the Greeks perceived that no buildings would be erected either as lecture-rooms for the
professors, or to contain the extensive collections of books which had been sent to Greece
by various patriotic Greeks in Europe. Men of all parties were indignant at the neglect, and
at last a public meeting was held, and it was resolved to raise a subscription for building
the university. The government did not dare to oppose the measure; fortunately, there was one
liberal-minded man connected with the court at the time, Professor Brandis of Bonn, and his
influence silenced the grumbling of the Bavarians; the subscription proceeded with unrivalled
activity, and upwards of £.4000 was raised in a town of little more than twenty thousand inhabitants--half
the inhabitants of which had not yet been able to rebuild their own houses. Many travellers
have seen the new university at Athens, and visited its respectable library, and they can bear
testimony to the simplicity and good sense displayed in the building.

One of the most remarkable features of the great moral improvement which has taken place in
the population, is the eagerness displayed for the introduction of a good system of female
education. The first female school established in Greece was founded at Syra, in the time of
Capo d'Istria, by that excellent missionary the late Rev. Dr Korck, who was sent to Greece
by the Church Missionary Society. An excellent female school still exists in this island, under
the auspices of the Rev. Mr Hilner, a German missionary ordained in England, and also in connexion
with the Church Missionary Society. The first female school at Athens, after the termination
of the Revolution, was established by Mrs Hill, an American lady, whose exertions have been
above all praise. A large female school was subsequently formed by a society of Greeks, and
liberally supported by the Rev. Mr Leeves, and many other strangers, for the purpose of educating
female teachers. This society raises about £.800 per annum in subscriptions among the Greeks.
We cannot close the subject of female education without adding a tribute of praise to the exertions
of Mrs Korck, a Greek lady, widow of the excellent missionary whom we have mentioned as having
founded the first female school at Syra; and of Mr George Constantinidhes, a Greek teacher,
who commenced his studies under the auspices of the British and Foreign School Society, and
who has devoted all his energy to the cause of the education of his countrymen, and has always
inculcated the great importance of a good system of female education. We insist particularly
on the merits of those who devoted their attention to this subject, as indicating a deep conviction
of the importance of moral and religious instruction. Male education leads to wealth and honours.
Boys gain a livelihood by their learning, but girls are educated that they may form better mothers.

Other public institutions have not been neglected. The citizens of Athens have built a very
respectable civil hospital, and we mention this as it is one of the public buildings which
excites the attention of strangers, and which is often supposed to have been erected by the
government, though entirely built from the funds raised by local taxes. The amount of municipal
taxes which the Greeks pay, is another subject which deserves attention. The general taxes
in Greece are very heavy. Every individual pays, on an average, twelve shillings, which makes
the payment of a family of five persons amount to £.3 sterling annually. This is a very large
sum, when the poverty and destitution of the people is taken into consideration, and is greater
than is paid by any other European nation where the population is so thinly scattered over
the surface of the country. Yet as soon as the Greeks became convinced that the general government
would contribute nothing towards improving the country, they determined to impose on themselves
additional burdens rather than submit to wait. Hospitals, schools, churches, and bridges, built
by several municipalities, attest the energy of the determination of the people to make every
sacrifice to improve their condition. We offer our readers a statement of the amount of the
taxes imposed by the municipalities of Attica on themselves for local improvements. The town
communes of Athens and the Piraeus find less difficulty in collecting the large revenues they
possess, than the country districts their comparatively trifling resources.

                                                   Drachmas
Athens, with a population of   22,309   collects   159,000
Piraeus,          ...           2,099      ...      27,300
Kekropia,         ...           2,158      ...       3,759
Marathon,         ...           1,214      ...       1,708
Phyle,            ...           2,659      ...       7,000
Laurion,          ...           1,470      ...       2,356
Kalamos,          ...           2,000      ...       2,747
                              -------              -------
                               33,909      ...     203,870

From this statement we find that each family of five persons pays, on an average, thirty drachmas
of self-imposed taxes, or about twenty-two shillings annually, in addition to the £.3 sterling
paid to the general government.

We think we may now ask: Are the Greeks fit for a representative system of government? We should
like to hear the reasons of those who hold the opinion, that they are not yet able to give
an opinion on the best means of improving their own country, and the most advantageous mode
of raising the necessary revenue.

We must now conclude with a few remarks on the line of conduct towards the Greeks which has
been pursued by the three protecting powers. We do not, however, propose entering at any length
on the subject, as we have no other object than that of rendering our preceding observations
more clear to our readers. We are persuaded that the policy of interfering as little as possible
in the affairs of Greece, which has been adopted, and impartially acted on by Lord Aberdeen,
is the true policy of Great Britain.

But in reviewing the general position of the Greek state, it must not be forgotten that the
Greek people have had communications with the great powers of Europe of a nature very different
from those which existed between the protecting powers and King Otho. As soon as it became
evident that Turkey could not suppress the Greek revolution without suffering most seriously
from the diminution of her resources, Russia and England began to perceive that it would be
a matter of some importance to secure the good-will of the Greek population. The Greeks scattered
over the countries in the Levant, amount to about five millions, and they are the most active
and intelligent portion of the population of the greater part of the provinces in which they
dwell. The declining state of the Ottoman empire, and the warlike spirit of the Greek mountaineers
and sailors, induced both Russia and England to commence bidding for the favour of the insurgents.
In 1822 the deputy sent by the Greeks to solicit the compassion of the European ministers assembled
at Verona, was not allowed to approach the Congress. But the successful resistance of the Greeks
to the whole strength of the Ottoman empire for two years, induced Russia to communicate a
memoir to the European cabinets in 1824, proposing that the Greek population then in arms should
receive a separate, though independent, political existence. This indiscreet proposition awakened
the jealousy of England, as indicating the immense importance attached by Russia to securing
the good-will of the Greeks. England immediately outbid the Czar for their favour, by recognising
the validity of their blockades of the Turkish fortresses, thus virtually acknowledging the
existence of the Greek state. The other European powers were compelled most unwillingly to
follow the example of Great Britain. Mr Canning, however, in order to place the question on
some public footing, laid down the principles on which the British cabinet was determined to
act, in a communication to the Greek government, dated in the month of December 1824. This
document declares that the British government will observe the strictest neutrality with reference
to the war; while with regard to the intermediate state of independence and subjection proposed
in the Russian memorial, it adds that, as it has been rejected by both parties, it is needless
to discuss its advantages or defects. It also assured the Greeks that Great Britain would take
no part in any attempt to compel them by force to adopt a plan of pacification contrary to
their wishes.

France now thought fit to enter on the field. According to the invariable principle of modern
French diplomacy, she made no definite proposition either to the Greeks or the European powers;
but she sent semi-official agents into the country, who made great promises to the Greeks if
they would choose the Duke de Nemours, the second son of the Duke d'Orleans, now King Louis
Philippe, to be sovereign of Greece. The Greeks had seen something too substantial on the part
of Russia and England to follow this Gallic will-o'-the-wisp. But England and Russia, in order
to brush all the cobwebs of French intrigue from a question which appeared to them too important
to be dealt with any longer by unauthorized agents, signed a protocol at St Petersburg on the
4th April 1826, engaging to use their good offices with the Sultan to put an end to the war.
The Duke of Wellington himself negotiated the signature of this protocol, and it is one of
the numerous services he has rendered to his country and to Europe, as the Greek question threatened
to disturb the peace of the East. France, as well as Austria, refused to join, until it became
evident that the two powers were taking active measures to carry their decisions into effect,
when France gave in her adhesion, and the treaty of the 6th of July 1827, was signed at London
by France, Great Britain, and Russia.

Events soon ran away with calculations. The Turkish fleet was destroyed at Navarino on the
20th October 1827, the anniversary (if we may trust Mitford's History of Greece) of the battle
of Salamis. France now embarked in the cause, determined to outbid her allies, and sent an
expedition to the Morea, under Marshal Maison, to drive out the troops of Ibrahim Pasha. Capo
d'Istria assumed the absolute direction of political affairs, and by his Russian partizanship
and anti-Anglican prejudices, plunged Greece in a new revolution, when his personal oppression
of the family of Mauromichalis caused his assassination. King Otho was then selected as king
of Greece, and the consent of the Greeks was obtained to his appointment by a loan to the new
monarch of £.2,400,000 sterling, and by a good deal of intrigue and intimidation at the assembly
of Pronia.[F] The Greeks, however, had already solemnly informed the allied powers, that the
acts of their national assemblies, consolidating the institutions of the Greek state, and by
securing the liberties of the Greek people, "were as precious to Greece as her existence itself;"
and the protecting powers had consecrated their engagement to support these institutions, by
annexing this declaration to their protocol of the 22d March 1830.[G]

[Footnote F: Several national assemblies have been held in Greece. The acts of the following
have been printed in a collection composed of several volumes. The first was held at Pidhavro,
near Epidaurus, of which its name is a corruption, in 1822; the others at Astros in 1823, at
Epidaurus in 1826, at Troezene in 1827, at Argos in 1830 and the last at Pronia, near Nauplia,
in 1832.]

[Footnote G: Annex A, No. 9.]

The three allied powers have not displayed more union in their councils, since the selection
of King Otho, than they did before his appointment. In one thing alone they have been unanimous;
but unfortunately this has been to forget their engagements to the Greek people, to see that
the institutions and liberties of Greece were to be respected. England and France have, however,
displayed at times some compunction on the subject; but, unluckily for the Greeks, their consciences
did not prick them at the same moment. At one time the Duke de Broglie proposed that Greece
should be reinstated in the enjoyment of her free institutions, but Lord Palmerston declared,
that, her government being very anti-Russian at the time, institutions and liberty were a mere
secondary matter, and he did not think the Greeks required such luxuries. Times, however, changed,
and King Otho, displaying considerably more affection for Russia than for England--England
conceived it necessary to propose, at one of the conferences in London on the affairs of Greece,
that the Greeks should be called, in virtue of their national institutions, to exercise a control
over the lavish and injudicious expenditure of the revenues of the kingdom by the royal government.
But Russia and France, though admitting the incapacity of the king's government, declared that
they considered it better to send commissioners named by the protecting powers, to control
his Hellenic majesty's expenses. Russia, indeed, distinctly declared she would not allow the
constitutional question to be discussed in the conferences at the Foreign Office, and Lord
Palmerston, with unusual meekness, submitted. France, every ready to play a great game in small
matters, really sent a commissioner to Greece, to control King Otho's expenses; but his Hellenic
majesty soon gave proofs of how grievously the Morning Chronicle had mistaken his abilities.
He gave the French commissioner a few dinners, a large star, and a good place at all court
pageants in which he could display the uniform of Louis Philippe to advantage, and thereby
made the commissioner the same as one of his own ministers. England and Russia kept aloof in
stern disapprobation of this paltry comedy.

The last farthing of the loan has now been expended, and the protecting powers have intimated
to King Otho, in very strong terns, that he must immediately commence paying the interest and
sinking fund, due in terms of the treaty which placed the crown of Greece on his head. The
whole burden of this payment, of course, falls on the Greek people, who, we have already shown,
have suffered enough from the government of King Otho, without this aggravation of their misery.
Is it, we ask, just that the Greeks should be compelled to pay sums expended on decorations
to European statesmen, pensions to Bavarian ministers, staff appointments to French engineer
officers, and ambassadors at foreign courts, when they never were allowed even to express their
conviction of the folly of these measures, except by the public press? The truth is, that the
loan was wasted, and the amount now to be repaid by Greece was very considerably increased
by the allied powers themselves, who neglected to enforce the provisions of the very treaty
they now call upon the Greeks to execute, though not a party to it. King Otho borrowed largely
from Bavaria, as well as from the protecting powers--he was at liberty to do so without the
allies attempting to interfere. But he was not entitled to repay any part of this loan from
the revenues of Greece, until the claims of the protecting powers were satisfied. So says the
treaty.

The allies were bound, also, to restrict the auxiliary corps of Bavarians to 3000 men; yet
they allowed King Otho to assemble round his person, at one time, upwards of 6000 Bavarian
troops, and a very great number of civil officers and forest guards. The King of Bavaria, when
he was anxious to secure the throne for his son, promised "that limited furloughs should be
granted to Bavarian officers, and their pay continued to them. This," says his Majesty, "will
greatly relieve the Greek treasury, by providing for the service of the state officers of experience,
possessing their own means of subsistence without any charge upon the country." Now, the allies
knew that every Bavarian officer who put his foot in Greece, received the pay of a higher rank
than he previously held in Bavaria from the Greek treasury. Is it, then, an equal application
of the principles of justice to king and people, to compel the Greeks to pay for the violation
of the King of Bavaria's engagement?[H]

[Footnote H: The paper from which we have quoted the above passage, is printed as an annex
to the protocol appointing King Otho, in the Parliamentary papers.]

We believe that there now remains only one assertion which we have ventured to make, which
we have not yet proved. We repeat it, and shall proceed to state our proofs. We say that Greece,
if equitably treated, is not bankrupt, but on the contrary she possesses resources amply sufficient
to discharge all just claims on her revenues, to maintain order in the country, and to defend
her institutions. We shall draw our proof from the budget of King Otho for the present year,
as this statement was laid before the allied powers to excite their compassion, and show them
the absolute impossibility of King Otho paying his debts.

The revenues of Greece are stated at 14,407,795 drachmas: and we may here remark, that last
year, when his Hellenic majesty expected to persuade the allies to desist from pressing their
claims, he stated the revenues of his

kingdom at ...                           17,834,000 The national expenses only amount to ...
11,735,546

Under the following heads:--

                                                 Drachmas.
Foreign Affairs,                                  394,712
Justice,                                          904,902
Interior,                                       1,073,182
Religion and Education,                           651,658
War Department,                                 5,255,804
Navy,                                           1,404,465
Finances,                                         486,600
Expenses of managing the Revenue, which, in
  all preceding years, has been a part of the
  expenses of the Finance Department,           1,564,222
Another section of Finance Department,             60,000
                                               ----------
                            Making a total of             11,735,546

The expenses of the Greek government which have been imposed on the country by the protecting
powers, but never yet approved of by the Greek nation, are as follows:--

                                                       Drachmas.
Interest and sinking fund of debt due to the three
  protecting powers, debt to Bavaria, and pensions,   4,703,232
Civil list of King Otho,                              1,209,064
                                                     ----------
                                                      5,912,296

It seems that the allies have made a very liberal allowance to King Otho. The monarch and his
council of state cost more than the whole civil administration of the country, and almost as
much as the Greek navy.

We humbly conceive that a court of equity would strike out the Bavarian loan as illegally contracted,
and forming a private debt between the two monarchs of Bavaria and Greece--that it would diminish
the claim of the protecting powers, by expunging all those sums which have been spent among
themselves or on strangers, with their consent--that it would reduce the civil list of the
king and the council of state to 500,000 drachmas--and that it would order the immediate convocation
of a national assembly, in order to take measures for improving the revenues of the country.

If the allied powers will form themselves into this court of equity, and follow the course
we have suggested, we have no doubt that in a very short period no kingdom in Europe will have
its finances in a more flourishing condition than Greece.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SKETCH IN THE TROPICS.

FROM A SUPERCARGO'S LOG.

It was on a November morning of the year 1816, and about half an hour before daybreak, that
the door of an obscure house in the Calle St Agostino, at the Havannah, was cautiously opened,
and a man put out his head, and gazed up and down the street as if to assure himself that no
one was near. All was silence and solitude at that early hour, and presently the door opening
wider gave egress to a young man muffled in a shabby cloak, who, with hurried but stealthy
step, took the direction of the port. Hastening noiselessly through the deserted streets and
lanes, he soon reached the quay, upon which were numerous storehouses of sugar and other merchandize,
and piles of dye-woods, placed there in readiness for shipment. Upon approaching one of the
latter, the young man gave a low whistle, and the next instant a figure glided from between
two huge heaps of logwood, and seizing his hand, drew him into the hiding-place from which
it had just emerged.

A quarter of an hour elapsed, and the first faint tinge of day just began to appear, when the
noise of oars was heard, and presently in the grey light a boat was seen darting out of the
mist that hung over the water. As it neared the quay, the two men left their place of concealment,
and one of them, pointing to the person who sat in the stern of the boat, pressed his companion's
hand, and hurrying away, soon disappeared amid the labyrinth of goods and warehouses.

The boat came up to the stairs. Of the three persons it contained, two sailors, who had been
rowing, remained in it; the third, whose dress and appearance were those of the master of a
merchant vessel, sprang on shore, and walked in the direction of the town. As he passed before
the logwood, the stranger stepped out and accosted him.

The seaman's first movement, and not an unnatural one, considering he was at the Havannah and
the day not yet broken, was to half draw his cutlass from its scabbard, but the next moment
he let it drop back again. The appearance of the person who addressed him was, if not very
prepossessing, at least not much calculated to inspire alarm. He was a young man of handsome
and even noble countenance, but pale and sickly-looking, and having the appearance of one bowed
down by sorrow and illness.

"Are you the captain of the Philadelphia schooner that is on the point of sailing?" enquired
he in a trembling, anxious voice.

The seaman looked hard in the young man's face, and answered in the affirmative. The stranger's
eye sparkled.

"Can I have a passage for myself, a friend, and two children?" demanded he.

The sailor hesitated before he replied, and again scanned his interlocutor from head to foot
with his keen grey eyes. There was something inconsistent, not to say suspicious, in the whole
appearance of the stranger. His cloak was stained and shabby, and his words humble; but there
was a fire in his eye that flashed forth seemingly in spite of himself, and his voice had that
particular tone which the habit of command alone gives. The result of the sailor's scrutiny
was apparently unfavourable, and he shook his head negatively. The young man gasped for breath,
and drew a well-filled purse from his bosom.

"I will pay beforehand," said he, "I will pay whatever you ask."

The American started; the contrast was too great between the heavy purse and large offers and
the beggarly exterior of the applicant. He shook his head more decidedly than before. The stranger
bit his lip till the blood came, his breast heaved, his whole manner was that of one who abandons
himself to despair. The sailor felt a touch of compassion.

"Young man," said he in Spanish, "you are no merchant. What do you want at Philadelphia?"

"I want to go to Philadelphia. Here is my passage money, here my pass. You are captain of the
schooner. What do you require more?"

There was a wild vehemence in the tone and manner in which these words were spoken, that indisposed
the seaman still more against his would-be passenger. Again he shook his head, and was about
to pass on. The young man seized his arm.

"Por el amor de Dios, Capitan, take me with you. Take my unhappy wife and my poor children."

"Wife and children!" repeated the captain. "Have you a wife and children?"

The stranger groaned.

"You have committed no crime? you are not flying from the arm of justice?" asked the American
sharply.

"So may God help me, no crime whatever have I committed," replied the young man, raising his
hand towards heaven.

"In that case I will take you. Keep your money till you are on board. In an hour at furthest
I weigh anchor."

The stranger answered nothing, but as if relieved from some dreadful anxiety, drew a deep breath,
and with a grateful look to heaven, hurried from the spot.

When Captain Ready, of the smart-sailing Baltimore-built schooner, "The Speedy Tom," returned
on board his vessel, and descended into the cabin, he was met by his new passenger, on whose
arm was hanging a lady of dazzling beauty and grace. She was very plainly dressed, as were
also two beautiful children who accompanied her; but their clothes were of the finest materials,
and the elegance of their appearance contrasted strangely with the rags and wretchedness of
their husband and father. Lying on a chest, however, Captain Ready saw a pelisse and two children's
cloaks of the shabbiest description, and which the new-comers had evidently just taken off.

The seaman's suspicions returned at all this disguise and mystery, and a doubt again arose
in his mind as to the propriety of taking passengers who came on board under such equivocal
circumstances. A feeling of compassion, however, added to the graceful manners and sweet voice
of the lady, decided him to persevere in his original intention; and politely requesting her
to make herself at home in the cabin, he returned on deck. Ten minutes later the anchor was
weighed, and the schooner in motion.

The sun had risen and dissipated the morning mist. Some distance astern of the now fast-advancing
schooner rose the streets and houses of the Havannah, and the forest of masts occupying its
port; to the right frowned the castle of the Molo, whose threatening embrasures the vessel
was rapidly approaching. The husband and wife stood upon the cabin stairs, gazing, with breathless
anxiety, at the fortress.

As the schooner arrived opposite the castle, a small postern leading out upon the jetty was
opened, and an officer and six soldiers issued forth. Four men, who had been lying on their
oars in a boat at the jetty stairs, sprang up.

The soldiers jumped in, and the rowers pulled in the direction of the schooner.

"Jesus Maria y José!" exclaimed the lady.

"Madre de Dios!" groaned her husband.

At this moment the fort made a signal.

"Up with the helm!" shouted Captain Ready.

The schooner rounded to; the boat came flying over the water, and in a few moments was alongside.
The soldiers and their commander stepped on board.

The latter was a very young man, possessed of a true Spanish countenance--grave and stern.
In few words he desired the captain to produce his ship's papers, and parade his seamen and
passengers. The papers were handed to him without an observation; he glanced his eye over them,
inspected the sailors one after the other, and then looked in the direction of the passengers,
who at length came on deck, the stranger carrying one of the children and his wife the other.
The Spanish officer started.

"Do you know that you have a state-criminal on board?" thundered he to the captain. "What is
the meaning of this?"

"Santa Virgen!" exclaimed the lady, and fell fainting into her husband's arms. There was a
moment's deep silence. All present seemed touched by the misfortunes of this youthful pair.
The young officer sprang to the assistance of the husband, and relieving him of the child,
enabled him to give his attention to his wife, whom he laid gently down upon the deck.

"I am grieved at the necessity," said the officer, "but you must return with me."

The American captain, who had been contemplating this scene apparently quite unmoved, now ejected
from his mouth a huge quid of tobacco, replaced it by another, and then stepping up to the
officer, touched him on the arm, and offered him the pass he had received from his passengers.
The Spaniard waved him back almost with disgust. There was, in fact, something very unpleasant
in the apathy and indifference with which the Yankee contemplated the scene of despair and
misery before him. Such cold-bloodedness appeared premature and unnatural in a man who could
not yet have seen more than five-and-twenty summers. A close observer, however, would have
remarked that the muscles of his face were beginning to be agitated by a slight convulsive
twitching, when, at that moment, his mate stepped up to him and whispered something. Approaching
the Spaniard for the second time, Ready invited him to partake of a slight refreshment in his
cabin, a courtesy which it is usual for the captains of merchant vessels to pay to the visiting
officer. The Spaniard accepted, and they went below.

The steward was busy covering the cabin table with plates of Boston crackers, olives, and almonds,
and he then uncorked a bottle of fine old Madeira that looked like liquid gold as it gurgled
into the glasses. Captain Ready seemed quite a different person in the cabin and on deck. Throwing
aside his dry say-little manner, he was good-humour and civility personified, as he lavished
on his guest all those obliging attentions which no one better knows the use of than a Yankee
when he wishes to administer a dose of what he would call "soft sawder." Ready soon persuaded
the officer of his entire guiltlessness in the unpleasant affair that had just occurred, and
the Spaniard told him by no means to make himself uneasy, that the pass had been given for
another person, and that the prisoner was a man of great importance, whom he considered himself
excessively lucky to have been able to recapture.

Most Spaniards like a glass of Madeira, particularly when olives serve as the whet. The American's
wine was first-rate, and the other seemed to find himself particularly comfortable in the cabin.
He did not forget, however, to desire that the prisoner's baggage might be placed in the boat,
and, with a courteous apology for leaving him a moment, Captain Ready hastened to give the
necessary orders.

When the captain reached the deck, a heart-rending scene presented itself to him. His unfortunate
passenger was seated on one of the hatchways, despair legibly written on his pale features.
The eldest child had climbed up on his knee, and looked wistfully into its father's face, and
his wife hung round his neck sobbing audibly. A young negress, who had come on board with them,
held the other child, an infant a few months old, in her arms. Ready took the prisoner's hand.

"I hate tyranny," said he, "as every American must. Had you confided your position to me a
few hours sooner, I would have got you safe off. But now I see nothing to be done. We are under
the cannon of the fort, that could sink us in ten seconds. Who and what are you? Say quickly,
for time is precious."

"I am a Columbian by birth," replied the young man, "an officer in the patriot army. I was
taken prisoner at the battle of Cachiri, and brought to the Havannah with several companions
in misfortune. My wife and children were allowed to follow me, for the Spaniards were not sorry
to have one of the first families of Columbia entirely in their power. Four months I lay in
a frightful dungeon, with rats and venomous reptiles for my only companions. It is a miracle
that I am still alive. Out of seven hundred prisoners, but a handful of emaciated objects remain
to testify to the barbarous cruelty of our captors. A fortnight back they took me out of my
prison, a mere skeleton, in order to preserve my life, and quartered me in a house in the city.
Two days ago, however, I heard that I was to return to the dungeon. It was my death-warrant,
for I was convinced I could not live another week in that frightful cell. A true friend, in
spite of the danger, and by dint of gold, procured me a pass that had belonged to a Spaniard
dead of the yellow fever. By means of that paper, and by your assistance, we trusted to escape.
Capitan!" said the young man, starting to his feet, and clasping Ready's hand, his hollow sunken
eye gleaming wildly as he spoke, "my only hope is in you. If you give me up I am a dead man,
for I have sworn to perish rather than return to the miseries of my prison. I fear not death--I
am a soldier; but alas for my poor wife, my helpless, deserted children!"

The Yankee captain passed his hand across his forehead with the air of a man who is puzzled,
then turned away without a word, and walked to the other end of the vessel. Giving a glance
upwards and around him that seemed to take in the appearance of the sky, and the probabilities
of good or bad weather, he ordered some of the sailors to bring the luggage of the passenger
upon deck, but not to put it into the boat. He told the steward to give the soldiers and boatmen
a couple of bottles of rum, and then, after whispering for a few seconds in the ear of his
mate, he approached the cabin stairs. As he passed the Columbian family, he said in a low voice,
and without looking at them,

    "Trust in him who helps when need is at the greatest."

Scarcely had he uttered the words, when the Spanish officer sprang up the cabin stairs, and
as soon as he saw the prisoners, ordered them into the boat. Ready, however, interfered, and
begged him to allow his unfortunate passenger to take a farewell glass before he left the vessel.
To this young officer good naturedly consented, and himself led the way into the cabin.

They took their places at the table, and the captain opened a fresh bottle, at the very first
glass of which the Spaniard's eye glistened, his lips smacked. The conversation became more
and more lively; Ready spoke Spanish fluently, and gave proof of a jovialty which no one would
have suspected to form a part of his character, dry and saturnine as his manner usually was.
A quarter of an hour or more had passed in this way, when the schooner gave a sudden lurch,
and the glasses and bottles jingled and clattered together on the table. The Spaniard started up.

"Captain!" cried he furiously, "the schooner is sailing!"

"Certainly," replied the captain, very coolly. "You surely did not expect, Señor, that we were
going to miss the finest breeze that ever filled a sail."

Without answering, the officer rushed upon deck, and looked in the direction of the Molo. They
had left the fort full two miles behind them. The Spaniard literally foamed at the mouth.

"Soldiers!" vociferated he, "seize the captain and the prisoners. We are betrayed. And you,
steersman, put about."

And betrayed they assuredly were; for while the officer had been quaffing his Madeira, and
the soldiers and boatmen regaling themselves with the steward's rum, sail had been made on
the vessel without noise or bustle, and, favoured by the breeze, she was rapidly increasing
her distance from land. Meantime Ready preserved the utmost composure.

"Betrayed!" repeated he, replying to the vehement ejaculation of the Spaniard. "Thank God we
are Americans, and have no trust to break, nothing to betray. As to this prisoner of yours,
however, he must remain here."

"Here!" sneered the Spaniard--"We'll soon see about that you treacherous"--

"Here," quietly interrupted the captain. "Do not give yourself needless trouble, Señor; your
soldiers' guns are, as you perceive, in our hands, and my six sailors well provided with pistols
and cutlasses. We are more than a match for your ten, and at the first suspicious movement
you make, we fire on you."

The officer looked around, and became speechless when he beheld the soldiers' muskets piled
upon the deck, and guarded by two well armed and determined-looking sailors.

"You would not dare"--exclaimed he.

"Indeed would I," replied Ready; "but I hope you will not force me to it. You must remain a
few hours longer my guest, and then you can return to port in your boat. You will get off with
a month's arrest, and as compensation, you will have the satisfaction of having delivered a
brave enemy from despair and death."

The officer ground his teeth together, but even yet he did not give up all hopes of getting
out of the scrape. Resistance was evidently out of the question, his men's muskets being in
the power of the Americans who, with cocked pistols and naked cutlasses, stood on guard over
them. The soldiers themselves did not seem very full of fight, and the boatmen were negroes,
and consequently non-combatants. But there were several trincadores and armed cutters cruising
about, and if he could manage to hail or make a signal to one of them, the schooner would be
brought to, and the tables turned. He gazed earnestly at a sloop that just then crossed them
at no great distance, staggering in towards the harbour under press of sail. The American seemed
to read his thoughts.

"Do me the honour, Señor," said be, "to partake of a slight dejeuner-à-la fourchette in the
cabin. We will also hope for the pleasure of your company at dinner. Supper you will probably
eat at home."

And so saying, he motioned courteously towards the cabin stairs. The Spaniard looked in the
seaman's face, and read in its decided expression, and in the slight smile of intelligence
that played upon it, that he must not hope either to resist or outwit his polite but peremptory
entertainer. So, making a virtue of necessity, he descended into the cabin.

The joy of the refugees at finding themselves thus unexpectedly rescued from the captivity
they so much dreaded, may be more easily imagined than described. They remained for some time
without uttering a word; but the tears of the lady, and the looks of heartfelt gratitude of
her husband were the best thanks they could offer their deliverer.

On went the schooner; fainter and fainter grew the outline of the land, till at length it sank
under the horizon, and nothing was visible but the castle of the Molo and the topmasts of the
vessels riding at anchor off the Havannah. They were twenty miles from land, far enough for
the safety of the fugitive, and as far as it was prudent for those to come who had to return
to port in an open boat. Ready's good-humour and hearty hospitality had reconciled him with
the Spaniard, who seemed to have forgotten the trick that had been played him, and the punishment
he would incur for having allowed himself to be entrapped. He shook the captain's hand as he
stepped over the side, the negroes dipped their oars into the water, and in a short time the
boat was seen from the schooner as a mere speck upon the vast expanse of ocean.

The voyage was prosperous, and in eleven days the vessel reached its destination. The Columbian
officer, his wife and children, were received with the utmost kindness and hospitality by the
young and handsome wife of Captain Ready, in whose house they took up their quarters. They
remained there two months, living in the most retired manner, with the double object of economizing
their scanty resources, and of avoiding the notice of the Philadelphians, who at that time
viewed the patriots of Southern America with no very favourable eye. The insurrection against
the Spaniards had injured the commerce between the United States and the Spanish colonies,
and the purely mercantile and lucre-loving spirit of the Philadelphians made them look with
dislike on any persons or circumstances who caused a diminution of their trade and profits.

At the expiration of the above-mentioned time, an opportunity offered of a vessel going to
Marguerite, then the headquarters of the patriots, and the place where the first expeditions
were formed under Bolivar against the Spaniards. Estoval (that was the name by which the Columbian
officer was designated in his passport) gladly seized the opportunity, and taking a grateful
and affectionate leave of his deliverer, embarked with his wife and children. They had been
several days at sea before they remembered that they had forgotten to tell their American friends
their real name. The latter had never enquired it, and the Estovals being accustomed to address
one another by their Christian names, it had never been mentioned.

Meantime, the good seed Captain Ready had sown, brought the honest Yankee but a sorry harvest.
His employers had small sympathy with the feelings of humanity that had induced him to run
the risk of carrying off a Spanish state-prisoner from under the guns of a Spanish battery.
Their correspondents at the Havannah had had some trouble and difficulty on account of the
affair, and had written to Philadelphia to complain of it. Ready lost his ship, and could only
obtain from his employers certificates of character of so ambiguous and unsatisfactory a nature,
that for a long time he found it impossible to get the command of another vessel.

In the autumn of 1824, I left Baltimore as supercargo of the brig Perverance, Captain Ready.
Proceeding to the Havannah, we discharged our cargo, took in another, partly on our own account,
partly on that of the Spanish government, and sailed for Callao on the 1st December, exactly
eight days before the celebrated battle of Ayacucho dealt the finishing blow to Spanish rule
on the southern continent of America, and established the independence of Peru. The Spaniards,
however, still held the fortress of Callao, which, after having been taken by Martin and Cochrane
four years previously, had again been treacherously delivered up, and was now blockaded by
sea and land by the patriots, under the command of General Hualero, who had marched an army
from Columbia to assist the cause of liberty in Peru.

Of all these circumstances we were ignorant, until we arrived within a few leagues of the port
of Callao. Then we learned them from a vessel that spoke us, but we still advanced, hoping
to find an opportunity to slip in. In attempting to do so, we were seized by one of the blockading
vessels, and the captain and myself taken out and sent to Lima. We were allowed to take our
personal property with us, but of brig or cargo we heard nothing for some time. I was not a
little uneasy; for the whole of my savings during ten years' clerkship in the house of a Baltimore
merchant were embarked in the form of a venture on board the Perseverance.

The captain, who had a fifth of the cargo, and was half owner of the brig, took things very
philosophically, and passed his days with a penknife and stick in his hand, whittling away,
Yankee fashion; and when he had chapped up his stick, he would set to work notching and hacking
the first chair, bench, or table that came under his hand. If any one spoke to him of the brig,
he would grind his teeth a little, but said nothing, and whittled away harder than ever. This
was his character, however. I had known him for five years that he had been in the employ of
the same house as myself, and he had always passed for a singularly reserved and taciturn man.
During our voyage, whole weeks had sometimes elapsed without his uttering a word except to
give the necessary orders.

In spite of his peculiarities, Captain Ready was generally liked by his brother captains, and
by all who knew him. When he did speak, his words (perhaps the more prized on account of their
rarity) were always listened to with attention. There was a benevolence and mildness in the
tones of his voice that rendered it quite musical, and never failed to prepossess in his favour
all those who heard him, and to make them forget the usual sullenness of his manner. During
the whole time he had sailed for the Baltimore house, he had shown himself a model of trustworthiness
and seamanship, and enjoyed the full confidence of his employers. It was said, however, that
his early life had not been irreproachable; that when he first, and as a very young man, had
command of a Philadelphian ship, something had occurred which had thrown a stain upon his character.
What this was, I had never heard very distinctly stated. He had favoured the escape of a malefactor,
ensnared some officers who were sent on board his vessel to seize him. All this was very vague,
but what was positive was the fact, that the owners of the ship he then commanded, had had
much trouble about the matter, and Ready himself remained long unemployed, until the rapid
increase of trade between the United States and the infant republics of South America had caused
seamen of ability to be in much request, and he had again obtained command of a vessel.

We were seated one afternoon outside the French coffeehouse at Lima. The party consisted of
seven or eight captains of merchant vessels that had been seized, and they were doing their
best to kill the time, some smoking, others chewing, but nearly all with penknife and stick
in hand, whittling as for a wager. On their first arrival at Lima, and adoption of this coffeehouse
as a place of resort, the tables and chairs belonging to it seemed in a fair way to be cut
to pieces by these indefatigable whittlers; but the coffeehouse keeper had hit upon a plan
to avoid such deterioration of his chattels, and had placed in every corner of the rooms bundles
of sticks, at which his Yankee customers cut and notched, till the coffeehouse assumed the
appearance of a carpenter's shop.

The costume and airs of the patriots, as they called themselves, were no small source of amusement
to us. They strutted about in all the pride of their fire-new freedom, regular caricatures
of soldiers. One would have on a Spanish jacket, part of the spoils of Ayacucho--another, an
American one, which he had bought from some sailor--a third a monk's robe, cut short, and fashioned
into a sort of doublet. Here was a shako wanting a brim, in company with a gold-laced velvet
coat of the time of Philip V.; there, a hussar jacket and an old-fashioned cocked hat. The
volunteers were the best clothed, also in great part from the plunder of the battle of Ayacucho.
Their uniforms were laden with gold and silver lace, and some of the officers, not satisfied
with two epaulettes, had half-a-dozen hanging before and behind, as well as on their shoulders.

As we sat smoking, whittling, and quizzing the patriots, a side-door of the coffeehouse was
suddenly opened, and an officer came out whose appearance was calculated to give us a far more
favourable opinion of South American militaires. He was a man about thirty years of age, plainly
but tastefully dressed, and of that unassuming, engaging demeanour which is so often found
the companion of the greatest decision of character, and which contrasted with the martial
deportment of a young man who followed him, and who, although in much more showy uniform, was
evidently his inferior in rank. We bowed as he passed before us, and he acknowledged the salutation
by raising his cocked hat slightly but courteously from his head. He was passing on when his
eyes suddenly fell upon Captain Ready, who was standing a little on one side, notching away
at his tenth or twelfth stick, and at that moment happened to look up. The officer started,
gazed earnestly at Ready for the space of a moment, and then, with delight expressed on his
countenance, sprang forward, and clasped him in his arms.

"Captain Ready!"

"That is my name," quietly replied the captain.

"Is it possible you do not know me?" exclaimed the officer.

Ready looked hard at him, and seemed a little in doubt. At last he shook his head.

"You do not know me?" repeated the other, almost reproachfully, and then whispered something
in his ear.

It was now Ready's turn to start and look surprised. A smile of pleasure lit up his countenance
as he grasped the hand of the officer, who took his arm and dragged him away into the house.

A quarter of an hour elapsed, during which we lost ourselves in conjectures as to who this
acquaintance of Ready's could be. At the end of that time the captain and his new (or old)
friend re-appeared. The latter walked away, and we saw him enter the government house, while
Ready joined us, as silent and phlegmatic as ever, and resumed his stick and penknife. In reply
to our enquiries as to who the officer was, he only said that he belonged to the army besieging
Callao, and that he had once made a voyage as his passenger. This was all the information we
could extract from our taciturn friend; but we saw plainly that the officer was somebody of
importance, from the respect paid him by the soldiers and others whom he met.

The morning following this incident we were sitting over our chocolate, when an orderly dragoon
came to ask for Captain Ready. The captain went out to speak to him, and presently returning,
went on with his breakfast very deliberately.

When he had done, he asked me if I were inclined for a little excursion out of the town, which
would, perhaps, keep us a couple of days away. I willingly accepted, heartily sick as I was
of the monotonous life we were leading. We packed up our valises, took our pistols and cutlasses,
and went out.

To my astonishment the orderly was waiting at the door with two magnificent Spanish chargers,
splendidly accoutred. They were the finest horses I had seen in Peru, and my curiosity was
strongly excited to know who had sent them, and whither we were going. To my questions, Ready
replied that we were going to visit the officer whom he had spoken to on the preceding day,
and who was with the besieging army, and had once been his passenger, but he declared he did
not know his name or rank.

We had left the town about a mile behind us, when we heard the sound of cannon in the direction
we were approaching; it increased as we went on, and about a mile further we met a string of
carts, full of wounded, going in to Lima. Here and there we caught sight of parties of marauders,
who disappeared as soon as they saw our orderly. I felt a great longing and curiosity to witness
the fight that was evidently going on--not, however, that I was particularly desirous of taking
share in it, or putting myself in the way of the bullets. My friend the captain jogged on by
my side, taking little heed of the roar of the cannon, which to him was no novelty; for having
passed his life at sea, he had had more than one encounter with pirates and other rough customers,
and been many times under the fire of batteries, running in and out of blockaded American ports.
His whole attention was now engrossed by the management of his horse, which was somewhat restive,
and he, like most sailors, was a very indifferent rider.

On reaching the top of a small rising ground, we beheld to the left the dark frowning bastions
of the fort, and to the right the village of Bella Vista, which, although commanded by the
guns of Callao, had been chosen as the headquarters of the besieging army--the houses being,
for the most part, built of huge blocks of stone, and offering sufficient resistance to the
balls. The orderly pointed out to us the various batteries, and especially one which was just
completed, and was situated about three hundred yards from the fortress. It had not yet been
used, and was still masked from the enemy by some houses which stood just in its front.

While we were looking about us, Ready's horse, irritated by the noise of the firing, the flashes
of the guns, and perhaps more than any thing by the captain's bad riding, became more and more
unmanageable, and at last taking the bit between his teeth started off at a mad gallop, closely
followed by myself and the orderly, to whose horses the panic seemed to have communicated itself.
The clouds of dust raised by the animals' feet, prevented us from seeing whither we were going.
Suddenly there was an explosion that seemed to shake the very earth under us, and Ready, the
orderly, and myself, lay sprawling with our horses on the ground. Before we could collect our
senses and get up, we were nearly deafened by a tremendous roar of artillery close to us, and
at the same moment a shower of stones and fragments of brick and mortar clattered about our ears.

The orderly was stunned by his fall; I was bruised and bewildered. Ready was the only one who
seemed in no ways put out, and with his usual phlegm, extricating himself from under his horse,
he came to our assistance. I was soon on my legs, and endeavouring to discover the cause of
all this uproar.

Our unruly steeds had brought us close to the new battery, at the very moment that the train
of a mine under the houses in front of it had been fired. The instant the obstacle was removed,
the artillerymen had opened a tremendous fire on the fort. The Spaniards were not slow to return
the compliment, and fortunate it was that a solid fragment of wall intervened between us and
their fire, or all our troubles about the brig, and every thing else, would have been at an
end. Already upwards of twenty balls had struck the old broken wall. Shot and shell were flying
in every direction, the smoke was stifling, the uproar indescribable. It was so dark with the
smoke and dust from the fallen houses, that we could not see an arm's length before us. The
captain asked two or three soldiers who were hurrying by, where the battery was; but they were
in too great haste to answer, and it was only when the smoke cleared away a little, that we
discovered we were not twenty paces from it. Ready seized my arm, and pulling me with him,
I the next moment found myself standing beside a gun, under cover of the breastworks.

The battery consisted of thirty, twenty-four, and thirty-six pounders, served with a zeal and
courage which far exceeded any thing I had expected to find in the patriot army. The fellows
were really more than brave, they were foolhardy. They danced rather than walked round the
guns, and exhibited a contempt of death that could not well be surpassed. As to drawing the
guns back from the embrasures while they loaded them, they never dreamed of such a thing. They
stood jeering and scoffing the Spaniards, and bidding them take better aim.

It must be remembered, that this was only three months after the battle of Ayacucho, the greatest
feat of arms which the South American patriots had achieved during the whole of their protracted
struggle with Spain. That victory had literally electrified the troops, and inspired them with
a courage and contempt of their enemy, that frequently showed itself, as on this occasion,
in acts of the greatest daring and temerity.

At the gun by which Ready and myself took our stand, half the artillerymen were already killed,
and we had scarcely come there, when a cannon shot took the head off a man standing close to
me. The wind of the ball was so great that I believe it would have suffocated me, had I not
fortunately been standing sideways in the battery. At the same moment, something hot splashed
over my neck and face, and nearly blinded me. I looked, and saw the man lying without his head
before me. I cannot describe the sickening feeling that came over me. It was not the first
man I had seen killed in my life, but it was the first whose blood and brains had spurted into
my face. My knees shook and my head swam; I was obliged to lean against the wall, or I should
have fallen.

Another ball fell close beside me, and strange to say, it brought me partly to myself again;
and by the time a third and fourth had bounced into the battery, I began to take things pretty
coolly--my heart beating rather quicker than usual, I acknowledge; but, nevertheless, I began
to find an indescribable sort of pleasure, a mischievous joy, if I may so call it, in the peril
and excitement of the scene.

Whilst I was getting over my terrors, my companion was moving about the battery with his usual
sang-froid, reconnoitring the enemy. He ran no useless risk, kept himself well behind the breastworks,
stooping down when necessary, and taking all proper care of himself. When he had completed
his reconnoissance, he, to my no small astonishment, took off his coat and neck-handkerchief,
the latter of which he tied tight round his waist, then taking a rammer from the hand of a
soldier who had just fallen, he ordered, or rather signed to the artilleryman to draw the gun back.

There was something so cool and decided in his manner, that they obeyed without testifying
any surprise at his interference, and as though he had been one of their own officers. He loaded
the piece, had it drawn forward again, pointed and fired it. He then went to the next gun and
did the same thing there. He seemed so perfectly at home in the battery, that nobody ever dreamed
of disputing his authority, and the two guns were entirely under his direction. I had now got
used to the thing myself, so I went forward and offered my services, which, in the scarcity
of men, (so many having been killed,) were not to be refused, and I helped to draw the guns
backwards and forward, and load them. The captain kept running from one to the other, pointing
them, and admirably well too; for every shot took effect within a circumference of a few feet
on the bastion in front of us.

This lasted nearly an hour, at the end of which time the fire was considerably slackened, for
the greater part of our guns had become unserviceable. Only about a dozen kept up the fire,
(the ball, I was going to say,) and amongst them were the two that Ready commanded. He had
given them time to cool after firing, whereas most of the others, in their desperate haste
and eagerness, had neglected that precaution. Although the patriots had now been fifteen years
at war with the Spaniards, they were still very indifferent artillerymen--for artillery had
little to do in most of their fights, which were generally decided by cavalry and infantry,
and even in that of Ayacucho there were only a few small field-pieces in use on either side.
The mountainous nature of the country, intersected, too, by mighty rivers, and the want of
good roads, were the reasons of the insignificant part played by the artillery in these wars.

Whilst we were thus hard at work, who should enter the battery but the very officer we had
left Lima to visit? He was attended by a numerous staff, and was evidently of very high rank.
He stood a little back, watching every movement of Captain Ready, and rubbing his hands with
visible satisfaction. Just at that moment the captain fired one of the guns, and, as the smoke
cleared away a little, we saw the opposite bastion rock, and then sink down into the moat.
A joyous hurra greeted its fall, and the general and his staff sprang forward.

It would be necessary to have witnessed the scene that followed in order to form any adequate
idea of the mad joy and enthusiasm of its actors. The general seized Ready in his arms, and
eagerly embraced him, then almost threw him to one of his officers, who performed the like
ceremony, and, in his turn, passed him to a third. The imperturbable captain flew, or was tossed,
like a ball, from one to the other. I also came in for my share of the embraces.

I thought them all stark-staring mad; and, indeed, I do not believe they were far from it.
The balls were still hailing into the battery; one of them cut a poor devil of an orderly nearly
in two, but no notice was taken of such trifles. It was a curious scene enough; the cannon-balls
bouncing about our ears--the ground under our feet slippery with blood--wounded and dying lying
on all sides--and we ourselves pushed and passed about from the arms of one black-bearded fellow
into those of another. There was something thoroughly exotic, completely South American and
tropical, in this impromptu.

Strange to say, now that the breach was made, and a breach such that a determined regiment,
assisted by well-directed fire of artillery, could have had no difficulty in storming the town,
there was no appearance of any disposition to profit by it. The patriots seemed quite contented
with what had been done; most of the officers left the batteries, and the thing was evidently
over for the day. I knew little of Spanish Americans then, or I should have felt less surprised
than I did at their not following up their advantage. It was not from want of courage; for
it was impossible to have exhibited more than they had done that morning. But they had had
their moment of fury, of wild energy and exertion, and the other side of the national character,
indolence, now showed itself. After fighting like devils, at the very moment when activity
was of most importance, they lay down and took the sièsta.

We were about leaving the battery, with the intention of visiting some of the others, when
our orderly came up in all haste, with orders to conduct us to the general's quarters. We followed
him, and soon reached a noble villa, at the door of which a guard was stationed. Here we were
given over to a sort of major-domo, who led us through a crowd of aides-de-camp, staff-officers,
and orderlies, to a chamber, whither our valises had preceded us. We were desired to make haste
with our toilet, as dinner would be served so soon as his Excellency returned from the batteries;
and, indeed, we had scarcely changed our dress, and washed the blood and smoke from our persons,
when the major-domo re-appeared, and announced the general's return.

Dinner was laid out in a large saloon, in which some sixty officers were assembled when we
entered it. With small regard to etiquette, and not waiting for the general to welcome us,
they all sprang to meet us with a "Buen venidos, capitanes!"

The dinner was such as might be expected at the table of a general commanded at the same time
an army and the blockade of a much-frequented port. The most delicious French and Spanish wines
were there in the greatest profusion; the conviviality of the guests was unbounded, but although
they drank their champagne out of tumblers, no one showed the smallest symptom of inebriety.

The first toast given, was--Bolivar.

The second--Sucre.

The third--The Battle of Ayacucho.

The fourth--Union between Columbia and Peru.

The fifth--Hualero.

The general rose to return thanks, and we now, for the first time, knew his name. He raised
his glass, and spoke, evidently with much emotion.

"Senores! Amigos!" said he, "that I am this day amongst you, and able to thank you for your
kindly sentiments towards your general and brother in arms, is owing, under Providence, to
the good and brave stranger whose acquaintance you have only this day made, but who is one
of my oldest and best friends." And so saying he left his place, and approaching Captain Ready,
affectionately embraced him. The seaman's iron features lost their usual imperturbability,
and his lips quivered as he stammered out the two words--

"Amigo siempre."

The following day we passed in the camp, and the one after returned to Lima, the general insisting
on our taking up our quarters in his house.

From Hualero and his lady I learned the origin of the friendship existing between the distinguished
Columbian general and my taciturn Yankee captain. It was the honourable explanation of the
mysterious stain upon Ready's character.

Our difficulties regarding the brig were now soon at an end. The vessel and cargo were returned
to us, with the exception of a large quantity of cigars belonging to the Spanish government.
These were, of course, confiscated, but the general bought them, and made them a present to
Captain Ready, who sold them by auction; and cigars being in no small demand amongst that tobacco-loving
population, they fetched immense prices, and put thirty thousand dollars into my friend's pocket.

To be brief, at the end of three weeks we sailed from Lima, and in a vastly better humour than
when we arrived there.

       *       *       *       *       *

WOMAN'S RIGHTS AND DUTIES.

BY A WOMAN.

  "Chose étrange d'aimer, et que pour ces maitresses,
   Les hommes soient sujets à de telles foiblesses--
   Tout le monde connoit leur imperfection,
   Ce n'est qu'extravagance et qu'indiscrétion.
   Leur esprit est méchant, et leur âme fragile,
   Il n'est rien de plus foible et de plus imbécille,
   Rien de plus infidèle--et malgrè tout cela,
   Dans le monde on fait tout pour ces animaux-là."

                               Ecole des Femmes.

Such is the language of disappointment--but although a careful examination of ancient and modern
manners might lead to a different conclusion, (for as the corruption of excessive refinement
ends by placing her in the first condition, so does the brutal assertion of physical superiority
begin by degrading her to the last,) woman is, we firmly believe, neither intended for a tyrant
nor a slave--Not a slave, for till she is raised above the condition of a beast of burden,
man, her companion, must continue barbarous--Not a tyrant, for terrible as are the evils of
irresponsible authority, with whomsoever it may be vested, in her hands it becomes the most
tremendous instrument that Providence in its indignation can employ to crush, degrade, and
utterly to paralyze the nations within its reach. The former position will readily be conceded;
and the history of Rome under the Emperors, or of France during the last century, affords but
too striking an exemplification of the second. It is, then, of the last importance to society,
that clear and accurate notions should prevail among us concerning the education of a being
on whom all its refinement, and much of its prosperity, must depend. It is of the last importance,
not only that the absurd notions which half-a-century ago deprived English ladies of education
altogether, should be consigned to everlasting oblivion and contempt--not only that the system
to which France is indebted for its Du Deffauds, Pompadours, and Du Barrys should be extinguished,
but that principles well adapted to the habits and intelligence of man, in the most civilized
state in which he has ever yet existed, should prevail among us, should float upon the very
atmosphere we breathe, and be circulated in every vein that traverses the mighty fabric of
society. Therefore it is, because we are deeply impressed with this conviction, that we hail
with delight the appearance of a work so profound, eloquent, and judicious; combining in so
rare an union so many kinds of excellence, as that which we now propose to the consideration
of our readers. Since the days of Smith and Montesquieu, no more valuable addition has been
made to moral science; and though the good taste and modesty of its author, has induced her
to put, in the least obtrusive form, the wisdom and erudition--the least fragment of which
would have furnished forth a host of modern Sciolists with the most ostentatious paragraphs--the
deep thought and nervous eloquence by which almost every page of the volume before us is illustrated,
sufficiently establish her title to rank among the most distinguished writers of this age and
country. If, indeed, we were ungrateful enough to quarrel with any part of a work, the perusal
of which has afforded us so much gratification, we should be disposed (in deference, however,
rather to the opinions of others than our own) to alter the title that is prefixed to it. Many
a grave and pompous gentleman, who is "free to confess," and "does not hesitate to utter" the
dullest and most obvious commonplaces, would sit down to the perusal of a work entitled, "On
the Government of Dependencies," or "Sermons on the Functions of Archdeacons and Rural Deans,"
though never so deficient in learning, vigour, and originality, who will reject with the supercilious
ignorance of incurable stupidity, these volumes, in which the habits, the interests, the inalienable
rights, the sacred duties of one half of the species, (and of that half to which, at the most
pliant and critical period of life, the health, the disposition, the qualities, moral and intellectual,
of the other half must of necessity be confided,) are discussed with exemplary fairness, and
placed in the most luminous point of view. But we have detained our readers too long from the
admirable work which it is our object to make known to them. It opens in the following manner:--

   "It was once suggested by an eminent physiologist, that the
    greatest enjoyments of our animal nature might be those which,
    from their constancy, escape our notice altogether.

    "His investigations had led him to think, that even the
    involuntary motions carried on in our system, were productive of
    pleasure; and that the act of respiration was probably attended
    by a sensation as delightful as the gratifications of the palate.
    It is certain that every sense is a source of unnoticed
    pleasures. Sound and light are agreeable in themselves, before
    their varied combinations have produced music to our ear, or
    conveyed the perceptions of form to our mind. Innumerable are the
    emotions of pleasure conveyed to the imagination and the senses,
    by the endless diversities of form, colour, and sound; and the
    unbought riches poured upon us from these sources, are more
    prolific of enjoyment, than any of the far-sought distinctions
    which stir the hopes and rivalries of men. Yet, on these and
    other spontaneous blessings, no one reflects, or even enumerates
    them among the sources of happiness, till some casual suspension
    of them revives sensibility to the delight they afford.

    "Such are the lamentations, though rarely so eloquently uttered,
    which we daily hear on the loss of some possession, which, while
    held, was scarcely noticed; and could preserve its owner, neither
    from the gloom of apathy, nor the irritation of discontent.

    "Were it not for this, the necessary effect of habit both in the
    physical and moral world, women might be expected to live in
    daily and hourly exultation, who have been born in a Christian
    and civilized country. Whatever theorists may have thought
    occasionally of the happiness of men in barbarous or savage
    conditions, no doubt at all can be entertained as to that of
    women. It is civilization which has taken the yoke from their
    neck, the scourge from their back, and the burden from their
    shoulders. It is Christianity chiefly which has raised them from
    the state of slaves or menials to that of citizens, and compelled
    their rough and unresisted tyrants to call up law in their
    defence; that potent spirit which they, who have evoked it, must
    ever after themselves submit to. Religion, which extends the
    sanctity of the marriage vow to the husband as well as to the
    wife, has rescued her from a condition in which her best and most
    tender affections were the source of her bitterest misery; a
    condition in which her only escape from a sense of suffering too
    unremitting for nature to endure, was in that mental degradation
    which produces insensibility to wrong. The instances of primitive
    communities, in which such injustice has not prevailed, are too
    few and far between, to form any solid objection to the truth of
    this general picture. The mere increase of numbers infallibly
    obliterates the fair but feeble virtues that originate in nothing
    but ignorance of ill; and the first inroads of want or discord,
    usually settle the doom of the weak and defenceless. In restoring
    to women their domestic dignity, religion has done more than
    every other cause towards shielding them from the consequences of
    weakness and dependence. From the dignified affections of the
    other sex, they have gradually acquired some social rights, and
    some share of that freedom, without which virtue itself can
    scarcely exist. Opinion, the offspring, not of resplendent
    genius, whose earliest fires burned indignantly against the
    tyrant and oppressor, but of a religion which preached the
    equality of all before God, has given them a share of those
    blessings, without which life is not worth possession. At length
    it has opened to them the portals of knowledge and wisdom, the
    gradual, but effective supports against degradation; and has
    sanctified its gifts by withholding from them every license that
    leads to vice, every knowledge that detracts from their purity,
    and every profession that would expose them to insult."

Then follows a masterly sketch of the condition of woman in uncivilized life, in which the
subject is illustrated by the most apposite quotations from the works of different travellers
and historians. It is the writer's opinion that in uncivilized life, the degradation of woman,
though common, is not universal. The celebrated passage in Tacitus is quoted in support of
this position; and among other less interesting extracts, is the following account of Galway
by Hardiman, a country which, so great is the blessing of a paternal and judicious government,
may furnish, in the nineteenth century, illustrations of uncivilized life, equally picturesque
and striking with those which Tacitus has recorded in his day as familiar among the inhabitants
of Pagan Germany.

    "This colony, from time immemorial, has been ruled by one of
    their own body, periodically elected, who somewhat resembled the
    Brughaid or head village of ancient times, when every clan
    resided in its hereditary canton. They neither understand nor trouble
    themselves about politics, consequently, in the most turbulent
    times, their loyalty has never been questioned. Their mayor is no
    way distinguished from other villagers, except that his boat is
    decorated with a white sail, and may be seen when at sea, at
    which time he acts as admiral, with colours flying at the
    masthead, gliding through their fleet with some appearance of
    authority.... When on shore, they employ themselves in repairing
    their boats, sails, rigging, and cordage, in making, drying, and
    repairing their nets and spillets, in which latter part they are
    assisted by the women, who spin the hemp and yarn for their nets.
    In consequence of their strict attention to these particulars,
    very few accidents happen at sea, and lives are seldom lost.
    Whatever time remains after these avocations, they spend in
    regaling with whisky, and assembling in groups to discuss their
    maritime affairs, on which occasions they arrange their fishing
    excursions. When preparing for sea, hundreds of their women and
    children for days before crowd the strand, seeking for worms to
    bait the hooks. The men carry in their boats, potatoes, oaten
    cakes, fuel, and water, but never admit any spirituous liquors.
    Thus equipped, they depart for their fishing ground, and
    sometimes remain away several days. Their return is joyfully
    hailed by their wives and children, who meet them on the shore.
    The fish instantly becomes the property of the women, (the men,
    after landing, never troubling themselves further about it,) and
    they dispose of it to a poorer class of fishwomen, who retail it
    at market.

    "The inhabitants of the Cloddagh are an unlettered race. They
    rarely speak English, and even their Irish they pronounce in a
    harsh, discordant tone, sometimes not intelligible to the
    townspeople. They are a contented, happy race, satisfied with
    their own society, and seldom ambitious of that of others.
    Strangers (for whom they have an utter aversion) are never
    suffered to reside among them. The women possess an unlimited
    control over their husbands, the produce of whose labour they
    exclusively manage, allowing the men little more money than
    suffices to keep the boat and tackle in repair; but they keep
    them plentifully supplied with whisky, brandy, and tobacco. The
    women seldom speak English, but appear more shrewd and
    intelligent in their dealings than the men; in their domestic
    concerns the general appearance of cleanliness is deserving of
    particular praise. The wooden ware, with which every dwelling is
    well stored, rivals in colour the whitest delft.

    "At an early age they generally marry amongst their own clan. A
    marriage is commonly preceded by an elopement, but no
    disappointment or disadvantage from that circumstance has ever
    been known among them. The reconciliation with the friends
    usually takes place the next morning, the clergyman is sent for,
    and the marriage celebrated. The parents generally contrive to
    supply the price of a boat, or a share in one, as a beginning."

The writer then proceeds, in a strain of generous yet chastened energy, to comment on the false
measure which people apply to the sufferings of others. Insensibility to wretchedness, or,
as in the vocabulary of oppression it is called, content, is often a proof of nothing but that
stupefaction of the faculties which is the natural result of long and blighting misery. A contented
slave is a degraded man. His sorrow may be gone, but so is his understanding.

In the course of her enquiries into the condition of women under the Mahometan law, the author
is led to make some reflections upon one by whom Mahometan manners were first presented in
an attractive shape to the English public--a person celebrated for her friends, but still more
celebrated for her enemies--known for her love, but famous for her hate--a girl without feeling,
a woman without tenderness--a banished wife, a careless mother--on whom extraordinary wit,
masculine sense, a clear judgment, and an ardent love of letters seem to have been lavished
for no other purpose than to show that, without a good heart, they serve only to make their
possessor the most contemptible of mankind. Lady Mary Wortley's heart was the receptacle of
all meanness and sensuality--the prey of a selfishness as intense as rank, riches, a bad education,
natural malignity, and the extremes of good and bad fortune, ever engendered in the breast
of woman. The remarks on her character, in the volume before us, are, as might be expected,
excellent.

The condition of women among the more polished nations of antiquity, is a subject which, if
fully examined, would more than exhaust our narrow limits. It does not appear from Homer, says
our author, that the condition of women was depressed. Achilles, in a very striking passage,
declares that every wise and good man loves and is careful for his wife, and Hector, in the
passage which Cicero is so fond of quoting, urges the opinion of

    "Troy's proud dames, whose garments sweep the ground,"

as a motive for his conduct. However this may be, certain it is, that the feelings and affections
of domestic life are portrayed by Homer with a degree of purity, truth, and pathos, that casts
every other writer, Virgil not excepted, into the shade; and which, to carry the panegyric
of human composition as far as it will go, he himself, in his most glorious passages, has never
been able to surpass. It has been so long the fashion to represent Virgil as the sole master
of the pathetic, that this assertion may appear to many paradoxical; and it is undoubtedly
true, that the fourth book of the Aeneid cannot he read by any one of common sensibility without
strong emotion; but how different is the lamentation of Andromache over her living husband,
uttered in all the glow and consciousness of returned and "twice blest" love, from the raving
of the slighted woman, abandoned by the lover whom she has too rashly trusted, and to whom
she has too plainly become indifferent! How different is the character of the patriot warrior,
the prop and bulwark of his country, sacrificing his life to delay that ruin which he knew
it was beyond his power to avert--snatching, amid the bloody scenes around him, a moment for
the indulgence of a father's pride and a husband's tenderness, from the perfidious paramour
flying from the vengeance of the woman he had wronged!

And how noble is the simplicity of Andromache, how affecting the appeal in which, after reminding
her husband that all else to which she was bound had been swept away, she tells him that, while
he remains, her other losses are unfelt! Let us trace the episode. "She had not gone," the
poet tells us, "to the mansions of her brothers or of her sisters, with their floating veils;
neither had she gone to the shrine of Minerva, where the Trojan women strove to appease the
terrible wrath of the fair-haired goddess. No. She had gone to the lofty tower of Ilium, for
she had heard that the Trojans were sore harassed, and that the force of the Greeks was mighty;
thither, like one bereft of reason, had she precipitated her steps, and the nurse followed
with her child." Then follows that interview, which no one can read without passion, or think
of without delight--that exquisite scene, in which the wife and mother pours out all her tenderness,
her joy, her sadness, her pride, her terror, the memory of the past, and the presage of future
sorrow, in an irresistible torrent of confiding love. Not less affecting is her husband's answer.
Conscious of his impending doom, he replies, that "not the future misery of his countrymen,
not that of Hecuba herself, and the royal Priam--not that of all his valiant brethren slain
by their enemies, and trampled in the dust, give him such a pang as the thought of her distress."
Then, as if to relieve his thoughts, he stretches out his hand towards his child, but the child
shrinks backwards, scared at the brazen helm and waving crest--the father and the mother exchange
a smile--Hector lays aside the blazing helmet, and, clasping his child in his arms, utters
the noble prayer which Dryden has rendered with uncommon spirit and fidelity:--

    "Parent of gods and men, propitious Jove,
    And you, bright synod of the powers above,
    On this my son your precious gifts bestow;
    Grant him to love, and great in arms to grow,
    To reign in Troy, to govern with renown,
    To shield the people, and assert the crown:
    That when hereafter he from war shall come,
    And bring his Trojans peace and triumph home,
    Some aged man, who lives this act to see,
    And who in former times remember'd me,
    May say, 'The son in fortitude and fame,
    Outgoes the mark, and drowns his father's name;'
    That at these words his mother may rejoice,
    And add her suffrage to the public voice."

"Thus having said, he placed the boy in the arms of his beloved wife, and she received him
on her fragrant breast, sailing amid her tears;" her husband uttered a few words of melancholy
consolation, "and Andromache went homewards, weeping, and often turning as she went." There
is but one passage in any work, ancient or modern, which can bear comparison with this, and
that is one in the Odyssey, in which is described the meeting of Ulysses and Penelope; and
yet some unfortunate people, who write commentaries on the classics, only to show how completely
nature has denied them the faculty of taste, affirm that these passages were written by different
people. It is curious to what a pitch pedantry and dulness may be brought by diligent cultivation.

As the fanatics of the East, to prove their continence, frequented the society of women under
the most trying circumstances, so these gentlemen seem to study the writers of antiquity with
the view of showing that their understandings are equally inaccessible. In one respect the
analogy does not hold good. History tells us that the fanatics sometimes sunk under the temptations
to which they exposed themselves; but these gentlemen have never, in any one instance, yielded
to the influence of taste or genius. Zenophon, in a beautiful treatise, has given an account
of the manner in which an Athenian endeavoured to mould the character of his wife, and to this
we would refer such of our readers as wish for more ample knowledge on the subject. There is
one circumstance, however, which we the rather mention, as it has not found its way into the
work before us, and as it furnishes the most conclusive and irresistible evidence of the value
set upon matrimonial happiness at Athens, and of the servile vassalage to which women, in that
most polished of all cities, were reduced. By the law of Athens, a father without sons might
bequeath his property away from his daughter, but the person to whom the property was bequeathed
was obliged to marry her. This was reasonable enough; but the same principle, that of keeping
the inheritance in the stock to which it belonged, occasioned another law--if the father left
his estate to his daughter, and if the daughter inherited his property after the father's death,
her nearest male relation in the descending line, the [Greek: agchioteus], might, though she
was married to a living husband, lay claim to her, institute a suit for her recovery, force
her from her husband's arms, and make her his wife.

Such a law must, alone, have been fatal to that domestic purity which we justly consider the
basis of social happiness--the very word, [Greek: hetairai], which the Athenians enjoyed to
denote the most degraded of all women, if it proves the exquisite refinement of that wonderful
people, serves also to show how different were the associations with which, among them, that
class was connected. Can we wonder at this? Under that glorious heaven, such women might, when
they chose, behold the statues of Phidias and the pictures of Zeuxis; they could listen to
the wisdom of Socrates, or they might form part of the crowd, hushed in raptured silence, round
the rhapsodist, as he recited the immortal lines of Homer--or round Demosthenes, as he poured
upon a rival, worthy of himself, the burning torrent of his more than human eloquence.

In their hearing the mightiest interests were discussed--the subtle questions of the Academy
propounded--the snares of the sophist exposed--the sublime thoughts and actions of heroes and
demigods, embodied in the most glorious poetry, were daily exhibited to their view; while the
wife, occupied solely with petty cares and trifling objects, without charms to win the love,
or dignity to command the esteem, of her husband, was condemned, within the narrow walls of
the Gynaeceum, (of which the drawings of Herculaneum and Pompeii may enable us to form some
notion,) to drag out the insipid round of her monotonous existence.

True the Hetairai were stigmatized by law--but, as opinion was on their side, they might well
submit to legal condemnation and formal censure, when they saw every day the youth, the intellect,
the eloquence, the philosophy, and the dignity of Athens crowding round their feet. At Rome,
the wife was not subject to the same rigorous seclusion, she was not cut off from all possibility
of improvement; her influence was gradually felt, her rights were tacitly extended, and long
after the letter of the law reduced her to the condition of a slave, she held and exercised
the privileges of a citizen. At Rome, domestic virtues were more considered, domestic ties
were held in great esteem. The family was the basis of the state.

There is no event to which women are more indebted for the improved situation they hold among
us than the propagation of Christianity. It was reserved for religion to urge the weakness
of woman as a reason for treating her, not with tenderness only, but with respect; it was reserved
for religion to bring the charities that are lovely in private life into public service; to
break down the barriers which had so long separated the husband from the citizen, and to pour
around the private hearth the light which, up to the time of its revelation, had been reflected
almost exclusively from the school of the philosopher or the forum of the republic, unless
in a few rare and favoured instances when it had shed its radiance over the cell of the captive
and the deathbed of the patriot. It was for religion to inculcate that purity of heart, without
which mere forbearance from sensuality is a virtue which may be prized in the precincts of
the seraglio, but to which true honour is almost indifferent. Nothing less powerful than such
an influence prescribing a new life, and commanding its votaries to be new creatures, could
have wrenched from their holdings prejudices as old as the society in which they flourished.
Our limits will not allow us to descant at any length on the condition of women during the
early ages of Christianity; but we transcribe on this subject, from a recent work, a passage
which we are sure our readers will peruse with pleasure.

    "Ce qui rendit les moeurs des familles Chrétiennes si graves, ce
    qui les conserva si chastes, c'est ce qui a toujours exercé sur
    les moeurs en général l'influence la plus profonde, l'exemple des
    femmes. Douées d'une delicatesse d'organes, qui rend, pour ainsi
    dire, leur intelligence plus accessible à la voix d'un monde
    supérieur, leur coeur plus sensible à toutes ces émotions qui
    enfantent les vertus, et qui élèvent l'homme terrestre au-dessus
    de la sphère étroite de la vie présente, les femmes, étrangères à
    l'histoire des travaux speculatifs du genre humain, sont
    toujours, dans les révolutions morales et religieuses, les
    premières à saisir, et à propager ce qui est grand, beau, et
    céleste. Avec une chaleur entrainante elles embrassèrent la cause
    Chrétienne, et s'y dévouèrent en héroines, depuis l'annonciation
    du Sauveur jusqu'à sa mort; en effet, elles furent les premières
    aux pieds de sa croix, les premières à son sépulcre. Présentant
    avec leur tact si prompt et si fin, tout ce que cette cause leur
    déferait d'élévation morale et d'avantages sociaux, elles s'y
    attachèrent avec un intérêt toujours croissant. Depuis les
    saintes femmes de l'évangile et la marchande de pourpre de
    Thyatire jusqu'à l'impératrice Hélène, elles furent les
    protectrices les plus zélées des idées Chrétiennes. Leur zèle ne
    fut point sans sacrifices, mais avec empressement elles
    renoncèrent à leurs goûts les plus chers, à la parure et aux
    élégances du luxe, pour rivaliser avec les hommes les plus sages
    de la société Chrétienne. Quelques rares exceptions ne se font
    remarquer que pour relever tant de mérite."--Matter, Hist. du
    Christianime, Vol. I.

    "The tendency of this creed," to use the words of our author, "is
    to direct the aim and purposes of mankind to whatever can exalt
    human nature and improve human happiness. It represents us as
    gardeners in a vineyard, or servants entrusted with a variety of
    means, who are not 'to keep their talent in a napkin,' but to
    exert their skill and ingenuity to employ it to the best
    advantage. The moral principles themselves are fixed and
    unchangeable; but their application to the circumstances by which
    we are surrounded, must depend very much on the degree in which
    reason has been exercised. By no imaginable instruction could the
    mind be so tutored, as to see through all the errors and
    prejudices of its times at once, but the principles possess in
    themselves a power of progression. The generosity of one time
    will be but justice in another; the temperance that brings
    respect and distinction in one age, will be but decorum in one
    more civilized, yet the principles are at all times the same."

It is difficult to read without a smile some of the passages in which the dress and manners
of the first ages are described by the Fathers of the Church; the fair hair, (our classical
readers will recollect the

    "Nigrum flavo crinem abscondente galero"

of the Roman satirist,) which the daughters of the South borrowed from their Celtic and German
neighbours, seems especially to have excited their indignation. Tertullian, in his treatise
"De Cultu Foeminarum," declaims with his usual fiery rhetoric against this habit. "I see some
women," says the African, "who dye their hair with yellow; they are ashamed of their very nation,
that they are not the natives of Gaul or Germany. Evil and most disastrous to them is the omen
which their fiery head portends, while they consider such abomination graceful." This charitable
hint of future reprobation, savage as it appears, seems to have been much admired by the Fathers;
it is repeated by St Jerome and St Cyprian with equal triumph. Well, indeed, might Theophilus
of Antioch, in his letter to Autolycus, place the Christian opinions concerning women in startling
contrast with the revolting scheme proposed in relation to them by the most refined philosopher
of antiquity. Well might the matrons of Antioch refuse to gratify Julian by a sacrifice to
gods whose votaries had steeped their sex in impurity and degradation. The death of Hypatia
is indeed a blot in Christian annals, but she fell the victim of an infuriated multitude; and
how often had the Proconsul and the Emperor beheld, unmoved, the arena wet with the blood of
Christian virgins, and the earth blackened with their ashes! Indeed, the deference paid to
weakness is the grand maxim, the practical application of which, in spite of some fantastic
notions, and some most pernicious errors that accompanied it, entitles chivalry to our veneration,
and prevented the dark ages from being one scene of unmixed violence and oppression. The flashes
of generosity that gild with a momentary splendour the dreadful scenes of feudal tyranny, were
struck out by the force of this principle acting upon the most rugged nature in the most superstitious
ages. While the fire that had consumed the surprised city was slaked in the blood of its miserable
inhabitants, the distress of high-born beauty, or the remonstrances of the defenceless priest,
often arrested the career of the warrior, who viewed the slaughter of unoffending peasants
and of simple burghers with as much indifference as that of the wild-boar or the red-deer which
it was his pastime and his privilege to destroy. Who does not remember the beautiful passage
in Tasso, where the crusaders burst into tears at the sight of the holy sepulchre?--

    "Nudo ciascuno il pie calca il sentiero,
     Ch'l'esempio de duci ogn' altromuove
     Serico fregio d'or, piuma e criniero
     Superbo dal suo capo ognon rimuove,
     E d'insieme del cor l'abito altero
     Depone, e calde e pie lagrime piove."

We now enter into the main object of the work, the condition of women in modern times; and
the passage which introduces the subject is so luminous and eloquent, that we cannot resist
the pleasure of laying it before our readers without mutilation.

    "To pursue the history of woman through the ages of misrule and
    violence that corrupted the spirit of chivalry, would be useless.
    It is sufficiently evident, that in proportion as the vices of
    barbarism renewed their dominion, the condition of women would be
    more or less affected by their evils. But, on the whole, society
    was improving: two great events were preparing to engage the
    attention of Europe--the struggles for religious freedom and the
    revival of learning. These produced effects on the human mind
    very different from those of any revolutions that had taken place
    during the age of barbarism.

    "While the opinion reigned absolute, that war was the most
    important affair of life and the most honourable pursuit, the
    tendency of society was towards destruction. All the virtue
    consistent with so false a principle was, perhaps, brought forth
    by chivalry; but in the long run, the false principle overruled
    the force of the generous spirit, and chivalry sank like a meteor
    that owed its splendour to surrounding darkness. Its spirit gave
    an impulse to opinion and sentiment, but its errors and ignorance
    disabled it from supplying any corrective to the bad institutions
    and mistaken policy which fostered barbarism. It was not every
    mind that was capable of imbibing the generous sentiments of
    chivalry, but ferocious passions could rarely fail to be
    stimulated by the idolatry of war, and the contempt for civil
    employments it produced. Among men, poor, restless, and to a
    great degree irresponsible, the craving for distinction excited
    by chivalry was a dangerous passion. No very general change over
    the face of society could be reasonably expected, from the
    attempts to engraft a spirit of gentleness and beneficence upon a
    principle of war and destruction. The spirit was right, but the
    principle was wrong. It was just the reverse in the next
    enthusiasm which seized the minds of mankind. In the struggles
    for religious freedom which followed, the principle was right,
    but it was pursued in the horrible spirit of persecution. Men,
    ready to die for the right of professing the truth, could not
    divest themselves of that persecuting spirit towards others,
    which was leading themselves to the stake. But there is a vigour
    in a right principle which gradually clears men's eyes of their
    prejudices. The dire and mistaken means by which successive
    reformers defended each his own opinion, were abandoned, and men
    began to perceive that civil and religious liberty were of more
    use to society than martial feats or extended conquests; and that
    it is still more important to learn how to reason than how to fight.

    "The tendency of this principle was towards social improvement,
    and civilization began to make progress.

    "Before the extinction of chivalry, the airy throne on which
    women had been raised was broken down; but the effects of her
    elevation were never obliterated. There remained on the surface
    of society a tone of gallantry which tended to preserve some
    recollection of the station she had once held. As civilization
    advanced, the idea that women might be disposed of like property,
    seemed to be nearly abandoned all over Europe; but their
    subsequent condition partook (as might be expected in the case of
    dependent beings) of the character prevailing in each country.
    The grave temper and morbid jealousy of the Spaniards, reduced
    them almost to Eastern seclusion."

We entreat the attention of our readers to the following remark, which explains, in some degree,
the mediocrity that characterizes the present day:--

   "In the first ages after the rise of literature, the very want of
    that multitude of second-rate books we now possess, had the
    effect of compelling those who learned any thing to betake
    themselves to studies of a solid nature; and there was
    consequently less difference then, between the education of the
    two sexes, than now. The reader will immediately recollect the
    instances of Lady Jane Grey, Mrs Hutchinson, and others of the
    same class, and will feel that it is quite fair to assume, that
    many such existed when a few came to be known."

It was during the reign of the last princes of the House of Valois, that the women of the French
court began to exercise that malignant and almost universal influence, which, for a while,
poisoned the well-springs of refinement and civility. Eclipsed for a while by the mighty luminaries
which, during the life of Louis XIII., and the early part of Louis XIV.th's reign, were lords
of the ascendant when they had sunk beneath the horizon, their constellation again blazed forth
with greater force and more disastrous splendour. Hence the Dragonnades, the destruction of
Port-Royal, the persecution of the Jansenists, the death of Racine, the disgrace of Fénélon.
Hence, in the reign of Louis XV., orgies that Messalina would have blushed to share; while
cruelties[A] of which Suwarrow would hardly have been the instrument, were employed to lash
into a momentary paroxysm nerves withered by debauchery. Here let us pause for a moment, to
remark upon the effect which false opinions may produce upon the happiness and well-being of
distant generations. Nothing is so common as for trivial superficial men--the class to which
the management of empires is for the most part entrusted--to ridicule theories, and, by a mode
reasoning which would place any cabin boy far above Sir Isaac Newton, to insist upon the mechanical
parts of government, and the routine of ordinary business, as the sole objects entitled to
notice and consideration--

    "O curvæ in terris animæ, et coelestium inanes!"

[Footnote A: This does not apply to Louis XV. personally.]

We would fain ask these practical people--for such is the eminently inappropriate metaphor
by which they rejoice to be distinguished--we would fain ask them (if it be consistent with
their profound respect for practice to pay some attention to experience) to cast their eyes
upon the proceedings and manners of the French court (wild and chimerical as such an appeal
will no doubt appear to them) during the dominion of Catharine of Medicis and her offspring,
those execrable deceivers, corrupters, and executioners of their people. To what are the almost
incredible abominations, familiar as household words to the French court of that day, to be
ascribed? To what are the persecutions, perjuries, the massacres that pollute the annals of
France during that period, to be attributed? To a false theory. Catharine of Medicis brought
into France the practical atheism of Machiavelli's prince--the Bible, as she blasphemously
called it, of her class. The maxims which, when confined to the petty courts of Italy, did
not undermine the prosperity of any considerable portion of the human race, when disseminated
among a valiant, politic, and powerful nation, brought Iliads of desolation in their train.
We subjoin Jeanne d'Allrep's account of the private manners of the court of Charles IX:--

    "J'ai trouvé votre lettre fort à mon gré--je la montrerai à
    madame, si je puis; quant à la peinture, je l'enverrai querir à
    Paris; elle est belle et bien avisée, et de bonne grâce, mais
    nourrie en la plus maudite et corrompue compagnie qui fut jamais,
    car je n'en vois point qui ne s'en sente. Votre cousine la
    marquise (l'épouse du jeune Prince de Condé) en est tellement
    changée qu'il n'y a apparence de religion en elle; si non
    d'autant qu'elle ne va point à la messe; car au reste de sa façon
    de vivre, hormis l'idolâtrie, elle fait comme les Papistes; et ma
    soeur la Princesse (de Condé) encore pis. Je vous l'écris
    privément, le porteur vous dira comme le roi s'émancipe--c'est
    pitié; je ne voudrois pour chose du monde que vous y fussiez pour
    y demeurer. Voilà pourquoi je désire vous marier, et que vous et
    votre femme vous vous retiriez de cette corruption; car encore
    que je la croyois bien grande, je la trouve encore davantage. Ce
    ne sont pas les hommes ici qui prient les femmes--ce sont les
    femmes qui prient les hommes; si vous y étiez, vous n'en
    échapperiez jamais sans une grande grâce de Dieu."

Thus women were alternately tools and plotters, idols and slaves. The ornaments of a court
became the scourges of a nation; their influence was an influence made up of falsehood, made
up of cruelty, made up of intrigue, of passions the most unbridled, and of vices the most detestable,
and it seems to the student of history, in this wild and dreadful era as if all that was generous,
upright, noble, and benevolent--as if faith and honour, and humanity and justice, were foreign
and unnatural to the heart of man. But let us turn to our author.

    "But the times were about to change. The great and stirring
    contests in religion and politics, which had given such scope to
    the deep fervour of the British character, subsided, as if the
    actors were breathless from their past exertions. The struggle
    for freedom sank into acquiescence in the dominion of the most
    worthless of mankind; and zeal for religion fled before the
    spirit of banter and sneer. The enthusiasm of 'fierce wars and
    faithful loves,' of piety and of freedom, were succeeded by the
    reign of profligacy and levity.

    "During that disastrous period, the sordid and servile vices seem
    to have kept pace with the wildest licentiousness; and the dark
    and stern persecutions in Scotland form a fearful contrast with
    the bacchanalian revels of the court. The effects on the
    character and estimation of the female sex, sustain all that has
    been said upon the connexion of their interests with the
    elevation of morals. It became the habit to satirize and despise
    them, and on this they have never entirely recovered. The
    demoralization which led to it was, indeed, too much opposed to
    the temper of the English to be permanent; but women, for a long
    time after, ceased to keep pace with their age. Notwithstanding
    the numerous exceptions which must always have existed in a free
    and populous country like England, where literature had made
    progress, it is certain, that in the days of Pope and Addison, the
    women, in general, were grossly ignorant.

    "The tone of gallantry and deference which had arisen from
    chivalry, still remained on the surface, but its language was
    that of cold, unmeaning flattery; and, from being the arbiters of
    honour, they became the mere ministers of amusement. They were
    again consigned to that frivolity, into which they relapse as
    easily as men do into ferocity. The respect they inspired, was
    felt individually or occasionally, but not for their sex. Any
    thing serious addressed to them, was introduced with an apology,
    or in the manner we now address children whom we desire to
    flatter. They were treated and considered as grown children. In
    the writings addressed to them expressly for their instruction in
    morals, or the conduct of life, though with the sincerest desire
    for their welfare, nothing is proposed to them that can either
    exalt their sentiments, invigorate their judgment, or give them
    any desire to leave the world better than they found it. They
    inculcated little beyond the views and the duties of a decent
    servant. Views and duties, indeed, very commendable as far as
    they go, but lamentable when offered as the standard of morals
    and thought for half the human species; that half too, on whom
    chiefly depends the first, the often unalterable, bent given to
    the character of the whole."

The dignity of character which rivets our attention on the "high dames and gartered knights"
of the days of Elizabeth, the simplicity and earnestness and lofty feeling, which lent grace
to prejudice and chastened error into virtue, were exchanged, in the days of Charles II., for
undisguised corruption and insatiable venality, for license without generosity, persecution
without faith, and luxury without refinement. Grammont's animated Mémoires are a complete,
and, from the happy unconsciousness of the writer to the vices he portrays, a faithful picture
of the court, to which the description Polydore Virgil gives of a particular family, "nec vir
fortis nec foemina casta," was almost literally applicable.

Various as are the beauties of style with which this work abounds--beauties which, to borrow
the phrase of Cicero, rise as naturally from the subject as a flower from its stem--we doubt
whether it contains a more felicitous illustration than that which we are about to quote. The
reader must bear in mind that the object of the writer is to establish the proposition, that
there is an average inferiority of women to men in certain qualities, which, slight as it may
appear, or altogether as it may vanish, in particular instances, is, on the whole, incontestable,
and according to which the transactions of daily life are distributed.

    "All inconvenience is avoided by a slight inferiority of strength
    and abilities in one of the sexes. This gradually develops a
    particular turn of character, a new class of affections and
    sentiments that humanize and embellish the species more than any
    others. These lead at once, without art or hesitation, to a
    division of duties, needed alike in all situations, and produce
    that order without which there can be no social progression. In
    the treatise of The Hand, by Sir Charles Bell, we learn that
    the left hand and foot are naturally a little weaker than the
    right; the effect of this is, to make us more prompt and
    dexterous than we should otherwise be. If there were no
    difference at all between the right and left limbs, the slight
    degree of hesitation which hand to use or which foot to put
    forward, would create an awkwardness that would operate more or
    less every moment of our lives, and the provision to prevent it
    seems analogous to the difference nature has made between the
    strength of the sexes."

The domain of woman is the horizon where heaven and earth meet--a sort of land debatable between
the confines where positive institutions end and intellectual supremacy begins. It includes
the whole region over which politeness should extend, as well as a large portion of the territories
over which the fine arts hold their sway.

Those lighter and more shifting features which elude the grasp of the moralist, and escape
the pencil of the historian, though they impress upon every age a countenance and expression
of its own, it is her undoubted province to survey. The habits of daily intercourse represent
her faults and virtues as naturally as a shadow is cast by the sun, or the image of the tree
that overhangs the lake is reflected from its undisturbed and silent waters. Where the desire
of wealth and respect for rank engross an excessive share of her thoughts, conversation will
be insipid; and instead of that, "nature ondoyante," that disposition to please and be pleased,
which is the essence of good nature and the foundation of good taste--instead of frankness
and urbanity, youth will engraft on its real ignorance the dulness of affected stupidity--will
assume an air of selfish calculation--of arrogance at one time and servility at another--debased
itself, and debasing all around it. When, on the contrary, whatever may be their real sentiments,
the external demeanour of men to each other is such as benevolence, gratitude, and equity would
dictate--and we do mean this phrase to include Russian manners--where, whatever may be the
principles that ferment within, the surface of society is brilliant and harmonious--where,
if the better politeness which dwells in the heart be wanting, the imitation of it which springs
from the head is habitual--women are entitled to the praise of exact taste and skilful discrimination.
There are women whom the world elevates, only afterwards the more effectually to humble. For
a time the best and wisest submit to their caprices, study their humour, are governed by their
wishes--every one avoids as a crime the slightest appearance of collision with any motive that,
for the moment, it may suit their purpose to entertain--a smile upon their face is hailed with
rapture, any faint proof that humanity is not dead within their breasts draws down the most
enthusiastic applause. During their hour of empire, people are grateful to them for not being
absolutely intolerable--when they deviate into the least appearance of courtesy or good nature,
they are angels. Their sun sets, and they soon learn what it is to be a fallen tyrant. The
woman who pleases at first, and as your acquaintance advances gains the more in your esteem,
is the most charming of all companions; the countenance of such a person is the most agreeable
of all sights, and her voice the most musical of all sounds. "Une belle femme qui a les qualités
d'un honnête homme est-ce qu'il y a au monde d'un commerce plus delicieux; l'on trouve en elle
tout le mérite des deux sexes."

"In the heart of the best woman," says a German writer, "there glows a shovelful, at least,
of infernal embers; in that of the worst, there is a little corner of Paradise."

The real benefits which depend on the influence of the softer sex are thus described:--

    "One of the peculiar offices of women is to refine society. They
    are very much shielded by their sex from the stern duties of men,
    and from that intercourse with the basest part of mankind which
    is opposed to the humanizing influence of mental cultivation. On
    them, the improvement of society in these respects chiefly
    depends; and they who consider the subject with the views here
    offered, will become more and more convinced of the service they
    might render. Manners are, in truth, of great importance. If real
    refinement be a merit, it is surely desirable that it should show
    itself in the general deportment. Real vulgarity is the
    expression of something mean or coarse in sentiments or habits.
    It betrays the want of fine moral perceptions. The peculiarities
    in manner and deportment, which proceed from the selfishness of
    the great world, when stripped of the illusory influence of their
    apparent refinement, become grossly offensive. A cold repulsive
    manner, such as is commonly assumed by persons in high life, is
    sometimes a necessary shield against the pushing familiarity of
    underbred persons. Their tasteless imitations of habits and
    manners which do not belong to their station or character,
    deserve the ridicule they meet with. The most offensive form
    vulgarity can take, is an affectation of the follies and vices of
    high life. It is true that the notion of vulgarity is affixed, in
    the fine world, to many trifling modes of dress and deportment,
    which in themselves have no demerit whatever, except that
    something opposed to them has acquired an ephemeral propriety
    from the fancy of the great. But in real good breeding there is
    always a reason. It is far too little attended to in England in
    any class, though, from acting as a continual corrective to
    selfish and unsocial affections, it is peculiarly requisite in
    all. Good manners consist in a constant maintenance of
    self-respect, accompanied by attention and deference to others;
    in correct language, gentle tones of voice, ease, and quietness
    in movements and action. They repress no gaiety or animation
    which keeps free of offence; they divest seriousness of an air of
    severity or pride. In conversation, good manners restrain the
    vehemence of personal or party feelings, and promote that
    versatility which enables people to converse readily with
    strangers, and take a passing interest in any subject that may be
    addressed to them."

The writer takes occasion to regret the narrow spirit which prevents our nobility, or, to speak
more properly, our fashionable coteries, from acquiring a healthier tone, by mixing with societies
in which habits of more vigorous thought predominate. In France, to whatever degree frivolity
may be carried, a French lady would be ashamed not to affect an interest in the great writers
by whom her country has been ennobled; and to betray an ignorance of their works, or an indifference
to their renown, would be considered a proof not only of the greatest stupidity, but of bad
taste and unrefined habits. Here we are distinguished unfavourably from our neighbours--exceptions,
of course, there must always be--but in general to betray an acquaintance with any literature
beyond the last novel, or the current trash and gossip of the day, might provoke the charge
of pedantry, but at any rate would fail in exciting the slightest sympathy. Hence men of letters,
and women of letters, form a caste by themselves much to their own disadvantage, and still
more to the injury of those to the improvement of whom they might imperceptibly contribute;
hence the statesman, or the lawyer, or the writer, generally keeps aloof from the great world,
which he leaves to idle young men and aged coxcombs; or, if he enters it, takes care to abstain
from those topics on which his conversation would be most natural, instructing, and entertaining.
Instances, indeed, may be found, where men, eminent for science and literature, or of high
professional reputation, inflamed with a distempered appetite for fashionable society, "drag
their slow lengths along" among the guardsmen and dowagers who frequent such scenes; but they
are rather tolerated than encouraged, and the sacrifices by which they purchase their admission
into the dullest society of Europe are so numerous, their appearance is so mortifying, and
the effect produced upon themselves so pernicious, that hitherto such instances have served
not as models to imitate, but as bywords to deter. Instead of improving others, they degrade
themselves; instead of inspiring the frivolous with nobler aims and better principles, they
condescend to be the echoes of imbecility; instead of raising the standard of conversation,
they yield implicitly to any signal, however corrupt, worthless, or utterly unreasonable may
be the quarter from which it proceeds, that the most submissive votaries of fashion watch for
and obey. The system is denounced by our author in the following vigorous and eloquent passage:--

    "The assembly-room or dinner-table is the very focus of care and
    anxiety, so that a funereal dulness often overhangs it; and
    there, where there is the greatest amount of money, time, and
    contrivance expended on pleasure--there is least animation of
    spirits. For one who is pleased, a dozen are chewing the cud of
    some petty annoyance, and the flow of spirits excited and
    animated by rapid interchange of ideas is scarcely known. When
    it occurs, it is seldom owing to those who live for dissipation,
    but to men whom the duties of office compel to work very hard.
    Notwithstanding their wealth, the pursuits of ambition compel
    them to become men of business, and the elasticity of their minds
    is preserved. That languid and depressed condition which cankers
    the very heart of social enjoyment, loses its solemn character on
    occasions of disappointment and vexation. Its pleasures are not
    cheerful, but its distresses are ludicrous, and are felt to be
    so. Each laughs at his neighbour's mortifications, and the
    consciousness he is supplying the same malicious amusement in his
    turn, does not take the sting from his own griefs when they
    arise.

    "Nor is it merely as destructive of social enjoyment, that the
    habits of the great world are unfriendly to happiness. It is not
    the place for those who have warm imaginations and tender hearts.
    There is scarcely any circumstance in which that sphere differs
    more from others, than in the deficiency of strong affections.
    The chances are many against their existence; and if a woman be
    born to move in the haunts of the worldly, it were almost cruel
    to snatch her from that immersion in their follies which may
    serve to stifle the pangs of disappointed affection. For after
    all that can be said of the misery of its empty pursuits and
    corrupted tastes, the disappointments that end its petty
    passions, and the mortifications that cling to its apparent
    splendours, sorrows like those bear no comparison with tears of
    anguish shed by the grave of love. Surrounding pleasures, even
    the tranquil and elevating beauty of external nature, seem but a
    mockery when offered in place of the one thing needful--perfect
    and overflowing affection. The exterior decorum and attention on
    the part of an altered husband, which betrays to the world no
    dereliction of morals but what its easy code passes over as a
    right, is no substitute for love. Not unfrequently there is
    something almost appalling in the sense of solitude, which on
    occasions of sickness or retirement oppresses a young woman, who
    to all appearance is overwhelmed with attendance. The hand is not
    there that would render every other superfluous. A voice is
    wanting, whose absence leaves the silence and horror of death.
    The eyes are missed, whose glances first called forth the fervour
    of her affections from their peaceful sleep; or, if looking on
    her for a moment, they express nothing but indifference. These
    are the occasions that dispel the laboured illusion, wherewith,
    under the garb of business, or cares, or natural manner, she had
    sought to disguise from herself the marks of an estranged heart.
    In these sad and desolate hours her memory retraces her early
    years, her mother's tender watchfulness, and the soft voices of
    sisters contending for their place by her bedside. The contrast
    with her present stately solitude bursts resistless through every
    effort to repel it; and life and youth, with their long futurity,
    present her with nothing but a frightful chasm."

       "Alas! alas my song is sad;
          How should it not be so,
        When he, who used to make me glad,
           Now leaves me in my woe?
        With him my love, my graciousness,
          My beauty, all are vain;
        I feel as if some guiltiness
          Had mark'd me with its stain.

        "One sweet thought still has power o'er me,
          In this my heart's great need;
        'Tis, that I ne'er was false to thee,
          Dear friend, in word or deed:
         I own that nobler virtues fill
          Thy heart, love only mine;
        Yet why are all thy looks so chill
          Till they on others shine?

        "Oh! long-loved friend, I marvel much
          Thy heart is so severe,
        That it will yield not to the touch
          Of love and sorrow's tear.
        No, no! it cannot be, that thou
          Should seek another's love;
        Oh! think upon our early vow,
          And thou wilt faithful prove.

        "Thy virtues--pride, thy lofty fame,
          Assures me thou art true,
        Though fairer ones than I may claim
          Thy hand, and deign to sue.
        But think, beloved one, that, to bless
          With perfect blessing, thou
        Must seek for trusting tenderness:
          Remember then our vow!"

    "Collectively," says our author, "women might do much to remove
    the national stigma of leaving men of science and letters
    neglected. But their education is seldom such as enables them to
    know the great importance of science and literature to human
    improvement; and they are rarely brought up to regard it as any
    part of their duty to promote the interests of society. They
    would not, indeed, be able directly to reward men of talent by
    employment or honours, but they might make them acquainted with
    those who could; at all events, mere social distinction, the
    attention and approbation of our fellow creatures, is in itself
    an advantage to men who seldom possess that passport to English
    respect--wealth. Though learning is tacitly discouraged in women,
    yet the access to every species of knowledge requisite to direct
    their efforts wisely and well, is as open to them as to men. With
    this power of forming the mind of the rising generation, this
    influence over the opinions, the morals, and the tastes of
    society, this direct power in promoting objects both of private
    benevolence and national importance--with so many advantages, how
    is it that women are still exposed to so many sufferings, from
    dependence, oppression, mortification, and contempt? why are
    their opinions yet sneered at? why is their influence rather
    deprecated than sought? Is it not that they have never learnt
    even the selfish policy of connecting themselves with the spirit
    of moral and intellectual advancement? Is it not because their
    liberty, their privileges, their power, have proceeded in many
    respects, less from a spirit of justice in the other sex, or a
    sense of moral fitness, than from the love of pleasure and
    luxury, of which women are the best promoters?"

In England, these evils are peculiarly great; for in England they are without compensation.
It is possible to imagine such brilliant conversation, such varied wit, such graceful manners,
such apparent gentleness, that would stifle the complaints of the moralist, and cause the half-uttered
expostulation to die away upon his lips. So we can conceive that Arnaud and Nicole may have
listened to the enchanting discourse of Madame de Sevigne, and under an influence so irresistible,
have forborne to scan with severity the faults, glaring as they were, of the system to which
she belonged. But with us the case is different--compare the English lady in her country-house,
hospitable to her guests, benevolent to her dependents, as a wife spotless, as a mother most
devoted, caring for all around her, dispensing education, relieving distress, encouraging merit,
the guard of innocence, the shame of guilt, active, contented, gracious, exemplary: and see
the same person in London--her frame worn out with fatigue, her mind ulcerated with petty mortifications,
her brow clouded, her look hardened, her eye averted from unprofitable friends, her tone harsh,
her demeanour restless, her whole being changed: and were there no higher motive, were it a
question of advantage and convenience only, were dignity, and the good opinion of others, and
consideration in the world, alone at stake, can any one hesitate as to which situation a wife
or daughter should prefer? No nation is so careful of the great, or so indifferent to the lesser,
moralities of life as the English; and in no country is society, indebted, perhaps, to polished
idleness for its greatest charms, more completely misunderstood.

But God forbid that a word should escape from us which should seem to place the amusements
of society, or the charms of conversation, in competition with those stern virtues which are
the guardians of an English hearth! The austere fanaticism of the Puritans, tainted with hypocrisy
as it was, was preferable a thousand times to the orgies of the Regent and the Parc-aux-Cerfs.
If purity and refined society be, indeed, incompatible--if the love of freedom and active enterprise
necessarily exclude the grace and softness which lessen, or at least teach us to forget, the
burden of existence, let us be what we are; and, indeed, it is the opinion of many, that the
rant of social pleasure is the price we pay for the excellence of our political institutions.
It is because before the law all men are equal, that in the world so much care is taken to
show that they are different. If to this we add the mercantile habits of our countrymen, the
enormous wealth which their pursuits enable them to accumulate--the great honours which are
the reward of successful industry and ambition--the absurd value annexed to technical distinctions--the
manner in which, in our as in all free countries, those distinctions are conferred--and a certain
disposition to sneer at any chivalrous, or elevated feeling, from which few of our ladies are
exempt--we shall find it easy to account for the cold, stiff, ungraceful, harsh, and mercenary
habits which disfigure, to the astonishment of all foreigners, the patrician class of English
society. Nothing, indeed, can be less graceful than the frivolity of an Englishman. Naturally
grave, serious, contemplative, if his angry stars have endowed him with enormous wealth, he
carries into the pursuit of trifles the same solemnity and perseverance which, had he been
more fortunately situated, would have been employed in a professional career--he carries a
certain degree of gravity into his follies and his vices; as Pope, no less keen an observer
than finished a poet, observed, he

    "Judicious sups, and greatly daring dines"--

devotes himself to an eternal round of puerile follies, with a pompous self-importance that
would be ludicrous were it exhibited in the discharge of the noblest and most sacred duties.
Plate and wine seem his religion, and a well-furnished room his morality--his dinners engross
his thoughts--his field sports are a nation's care. He writes books on arm-chairs, hunts with
the most ineffable self-sufficiency, and talks of his dogs and horses as Howard or Clarkson
might speak of the jails they had visited, and the mourners they had set free. He commits errors
with a stolid air of deliberation, which the reckless passions of boiling youth could hardly
palliate, but which, when perpetrated as a title to fashion, and as a passport to society,
no epithets that contempt can suggest are vehement enough to stigmatize. The Englishman's vice
has a business-like air with it that is intolerable--there is no illusion, no refinement--it
is coarse, direct, groveling brutality--it wears its own hideous aspect with no garnish or
disguise; and how seldom, even among that sex which these volumes are intended to instruct,
does the brow wreathed with roses, amid the haunts of dissipation, wear a gay, a serene, or
even a contented aspect! Where all the treasures that inanimate nature can furnish are scattered
in profusion--where the air is fragrant with perfume, and vocal with melody, how vainly do
we look for the freshness and animation, and the simplicity and single-mindedness of buoyant
and delighted youth! We feel inclined, amid this gloomy dissipation and depressing pleasure,
to reverse the most beautiful passage in Euripides, and to say, that the banquet and the festival
do require all the heightening of art, all the embellishments of luxury, all the illusions
of song, to conceal the struggles of corroding interest, and the pangs of constant mortification.

    "There" (but we quote one of the most remarkable passages in the
    book) "is a general aversion from the labour of thought, in all
    who have not had the faculties exercised while they were pliant,
    nor been supplied with a certain stock of elementary knowledge,
    essential alike to any subject of science that may be presented
    to their maturer years. By means of the press, many broken and
    ill-sustained rays pierce across the neglect or indifference of
    parents, to the minds of the young. Gleams of a rational spirit
    and enlarged feeling may often be found among the daughters of
    country gentlemen, whose sons are still solely devoted to
    sporting and party politics.

    "When we think of those mighty resources we have just been
    adverting to, the strength all such tastes acquire by sympathy,
    and the observation of nature and of human life they tend to
    excite, we might expect they would furnish society with
    everlasting sources of excitement and mutual interest, that they
    would create a universal sympathy with genius and ability
    wherever it was found, and soften the repulsive austerity with
    which it is the nature of rank and wealth to look on humble
    fortunes.

    "Little or nothing of all this takes place. But the higher we go in society, the wider the circle of
    the excluded becomes, consequently, the greater the range of
    human beings cast forth from the pale of sympathy; and the more
    contracted do the judgment, experience, and feelings of its
    inmates become. The lofty walls, the iron spikes that surround
    our villas, and the notices every where affixed 'that trespassers
    will be prosecuted with the utmost rigour of the law,' are meet
    emblems of the social spirit that connects the different orders
    of society in England. The effect of this is to produce narrow
    minds, or, what is worse, narrow hearts on one side, and a host
    of dissocial, irritable passions on the other. In each step of
    the scale, those beneath see chiefly the unamiable qualities of
    their superiors."

The disproportion of the happiness of society with its means, is a subject which calls forth
all the eloquence and sagacity of this writer. Nor is this surprising; for it might startle
the most sluggish indifference--the most incurious stupidity. How does it come to pass, that
with us misery is the fruit of successful labour, that with us experience does not teach caution,
that with us the most munificent charity is unable to check the accumulation of evil, moral
and physical, with which it vainly endeavours to contend? How is it, that while the wealth
of England is a proverb among nations, the distress of her labourers is a byword no less universal;
that while her commerce encircles the globe, while her colonies are spread through both hemispheres,
while regions hitherto unknown are but the resting-place of her never-ceasing enterprise, the
producers of all this wealth, the causes of all this luxury, the instruments of all this civilization,
lie down in despair to perish by hundreds, amid the miracles of triumphant industry by which
they are surrounded? How happens it, that as our empire extends abroad, security diminishes
at home? that as our reputation becomes more splendid, and our attitude more commanding, the
fabric of our strength decays, and our social bulwarks rock from their foundations? Who can
say that the skill and valour of the general who has added a province to our Indian empire--who,
triumphing over obstacles hitherto insurmountable, has caused the tide of victory to flow from
East to West, and make the Sepoy invincible--may not erelong be called upon to fulfil the thankless
task of suppressing insurrection, and to control the kindling fury of a mistaken, it is true,
but of a kindred population? Shall the day indeed come when in our streets there shall be solitude,
and in our harbours be heard no sound of oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby? Is
the vaunted splendour of this country to furnish a melancholy lesson of the instability of
earthly power, and its fate to conclude a tale more glorious, to point a moral more affecting,
than any which Tyre, or Sidon, or Carthage have furnished, to curb the insolence of prosperity,
and to show the insignificance of man?

    "Quamvis Pontica pinus,
    Sylvae filia nobilis,
      Jactes et genus et nomen inutile."

After dwelling on the supply of information which the present age enjoys, and which is quite
without parallel in any former period, and pointing out the inconsistencies among us, of which,
nevertheless, every day affords perpetual examples, the writer asks--

    "Do these evils proceed from some moral perversity in the people?
    Is there some natural barrier in England against the effects of
    capital, industry, science, and religion; or is it not that
    ignorance of the laws that regulate and harmonize social
    existence, and of those that govern the human mind, has hitherto
    been extensively prevalent, and is still resisting the remedies
    of riper experience?

    "But the poor and ignorant cannot educate themselves; it must be
    the upper classes who give them the means of improvement. In the
    natural laws of society, the use of a class who are independent
    of labour for subsistence, is, that a certain part of the
    community should have leisure to acquire that general knowledge
    which is the parent of wise institutions and pure morals. That
    they should have such affluence as to give weight to their
    example and authority, is also desirable. Government, as has
    already been observed, cannot act effectively against a very
    great preponderance of error and prejudice, but must legislate in
    the spirit of truths that are generally known, and in the service
    of interests that excite general sympathy.

    "The object of this work is not to advocate particular measures,
    nor even to assume that every thing that is wrong is so through
    culpable neglect; but it is to call attention to the grievous
    evils, that neither legislation nor zeal and charity can
    counteract with effect, till the increased education of all
    classes assists their efforts. Something must be wanting, when
    such unrivalled knowledge and wealth are accompanied by such
    various and wide-spread evils. It is not benevolence that is
    deficient, for nowhere can we turn without meeting it in private,
    struggling against miseries too great for its power, and in
    public devoting abilities of the first order to the cause of
    humanity.

    "It is the wider diffusion of knowledge we require: more heads
    and hands still are wanted, qualified for acting in concert, or
    at least acting generally on right principles. Too many persons
    capable of generous feeling are absorbed and corrupted by luxury
    and frivolity; too many waste their efforts from shallow,
    mistaken, and contradictory views."

Then follows a splendid description of scientific energy, the gratification which it affords,
and the noble objects to which it points the way.

    "In examining the prodigious resources at the command of the
    upper classes of English society, it is finely remarked, that
    'the fine arts are the materials by which our physical and animal
    sensations are converted into moral perceptions.'

    "Every thing in the form of matter, however coarse--the refuse
    and dross of more valuable materials--is resolvable, by science,
    into elements too subtle for our vision, and yet possessed of
    such potency that they effect transmutations more surprising than
    the fables of magic. The points that spangle the still blue
    vault, and make night lovely to the untaught peasant, interpreted
    by science, expand into worlds and systems of worlds: some so
    remote, that even the character of light, in which their
    existence is declared to us, can scarcely give full assurance of
    their reality--some, kindred planets which science has measured,
    and has told their movements, their seasons, and the length of
    their days. Such resemblances to our own globe are ascertained in
    their general laws, and such diversity in their peculiar ones,
    that we are led irresistibly to believe they all teem with
    beings, sentient and intelligent as we are, yet whose senses, and
    powers, and modes of existence, must be very dissimilar, and
    indefinitely varied. The regions of space, within the field of
    our vision, present us with phenomena the most incomprehensibly
    mysterious, and with knowledge the most accurate and
    demonstrable. Light, motion, form, and magnitude--the animal,
    vegetable, and mineral kingdoms--have their several sciences, and
    each would exhaust a life to master it completely. No uneasy
    passion follows him who engages in such speculations, where
    continual pursuit is made happy by the sense of continual
    progress. He leaves his cares at the threshold; for when his
    attention is fixed, so great is the pleasure of contemplation,
    that it seems good to have been born for this alone.

    "If we turn to the moral world, where, strange as it seems, we
    meet with less clearness and grandeur, yet there our deep
    interest in its truths supplies a different, perhaps a more
    powerful attraction. While we wonder and hope, the general laws
    of sentient existence give us glimpses of their harmony with
    those of inanimate nature. The latter seems assuredly made for
    the use of the former. The identity of benevolence with wisdom
    presents itself to our minds as a necessary truth, and,
    notwithstanding our perplexities, brings peace to our hearts.
    Social distinctions sink to insignificance when contemplating our
    place in existence, and the privilege of reading the book of
    nature, and sharing the thoughts and the sentiments of the
    distinguished among men, atones for obscurity and neglect;
    neither would the troubled power of a throne nor the flushing of
    victory repay us for the sacrifice of those pleasures."

The second volume opens with a dissertation on luxury, in which the subject is treated with
the depth and perspicuity that the extracts we have already made will have prepared our readers
to anticipate. Luxury is a word of relative, and therefore of ambiguous signification; it may
be the test of prosperity--it may be the harbinger of decay: according to the state of society
in which it prevails, its signification will, of course, be different. The effect of civilization
is to increase the number of our wants. The same degree of education which, during the last
century, was considered, even by the upper classes, a superfluity, is now a necessary for the
middling class, and will soon become a necessary for the lowest, or all but the lowest, members
of society. Most of our readers are acquainted with the story of the Highland chief who rebuked
his son indignantly for making a pillow of a snowball. Sumptuary laws have always been inefficient,
or efficient only for the purposes of oppression. Public morality has been their pretext--the
private gratification of jealousy their aim. In republics they were intended to allay the envy
of the poor--in monarchies to flatter the arrogance of the great. The first of these motives
produced, as Say observes, the law Orchia at Rome, which prohibited the invitation of more
than a certain number of guests. The second was the cause of an edict passed in the reign of
Henry II. of France, by which the use of silken shoes and garments was confined to princes
and bishops. States are ruined by the extravagance, not of their subjects, but of their rulers.

Luxury is pernicious when it is purchased at an excessive price, or when it stands in the way
of advantages greater and more attainable. The worse a government is, the more effect does
it produce upon the manners and habits of its subjects. The influence of a government of favourites
and minions over the community, is as prodigious as it is baneful. Every innocent pleasure
is a blessing. It does not follow, because the materials for luxury are wanted, that the bad
passions and selfishness, which are its usual companions, will be wanted also. A Greenlander
may display as much gluttony over his train oil and whale blubber as the most refined epicure
can exhibit with the Physiologie du Goût in his hand, and with all Monsieur Ude's science at
his disposal. When the gratification of our taste and senses interferes with our duty to our
country, or our neighbours, or our friends--when, for the sake of their indulgence, we sacrifice
our independence--or when, rather than abandon it, we neglect our duties sacred and imperative
as they may be--the most favourable casuists on the side of luxury allow that it is criminal.
But even when it stops far short of this scandalous excess, the habit of immoderate self-indulgence
can hardly long associate in the same breast with generous, manly, and enlightened sentiments:
its inevitable effect is to stifle all vigorous energy, as well as to eradicate every softer
virtue. It is the parent of that satiety which is the most unspeakable of all miseries--a short
satisfaction is purchased by long suffering, and the result is an addition to our stock, not
of pleasure, but of pain.

The next topic to which our attention is directed is the influence of habit. Habit is thus
defined:--

    "Habit is the aptitude for any actions or impressions produced by
    frequent repetition of them."

The word impressions is used to designate affections of mind and body that are involuntary,
in contradistinction to those which we can originate and control. For instance, we may choose
whether or not we will enter into any particular enquiry; but when we have entered upon it,
we cannot prevent the result that the evidence concerning it will produce upon our minds. A
person conversant with mathematical studies can no more help believing that the diagonal of
a square is incommensurable with its side, than, if his hand had been thrust in the fire, he
could help feeling heat. The remarks which follow are ingenious and profound:--

    "The more amusements," continues the writer, "partake of an useful
    character, the more lasting they are. This is never the case with
    trifles; when the enjoyment is over, they leave little or nothing
    in the mind. They are not steps to something else, they have no
    connexion with other and further results, to be brought out by
    further endeavours. The attempt to make life a series of quickly
    succeeding emotions, will ever prove a miserable failure;
    whereas, when the chief part of our time is spent in labour,
    active power increases--the exertion of it becomes habit--the
    mind gathers strength; and emotion being husbanded, retains its
    freshness, and the spirits preserve their alacrity through life.
    It follows that the most agreeable labours are those which
    superadd to an object of important and lasting interest a due
    mixture of intermediate and somewhat diversified results. To a
    mechanic, making a set of chairs and tables, for example, is more
    agreeable than working daily at a sawpit. But nothing can deprive
    the industrious man (however undiversified his employment) of the
    advantage of having a constant and important pursuit--viz.
    earning the necessaries and comforts of life; and when we
    consider the uneasiness of a life without any steady pursuit, and
    how slight is the influence that such as one merely voluntary has
    over most men, it seems certain that, as a general rule, we do
    not err in representing the necessity of labour as a safeguard of
    happiness."

Active habits are such as action gives: passive habits are such as our condition qualifies
us to receive. In emotion, however violent, we may be passive, the forgiving and the vindictive
man are for a time equally passive in their emotions. It is when the vindictive man proceeds
to retaliation upon an adversary that he becomes a voluntary agent. It is often difficult to
analyse the ingredients of our thought, and to determine how far they are involuntary and how
far they are spontaneous. Nor is this an enquiry the solution of which can ever affect the
majority of mankind: it is not with such subtleties that the practice of the moralist is concerned.
It is a psychological fact, which never can be repeated too often, that habit deadens impression
and fortifies activity. It gives energy to that power which depends on the sanction of the
will--it renders the sensations which are nearly passive every day more languid and insignificant.

"Mon sachet de fleurs," says Montaigne, "sert d'abord à mon nez; mais, après que je m'en suis
servi huit jours, il ne sert plus qu'au nez des assistants." So the taste becomes accustomed
to the most irritating stimulants, and is finally palsied by their continued application, yet
the necessity of having recourse to these provocatives becomes daily more imperious.

        "Crescit indulgens sibi dirus hydrops
    Nec sitim pellit."

The tanner who lives among his hides till he is insensible to their exhalations--the surgeon
who has conquered the disgust with which the objects around him must fill an ordinary individual--the
sensualist, on whose jaded appetite all the resources of art and all the loveliness of nature
are employed in vain--may serve as common instances of the first part of the proposition; and
the astonishing facility acquired by particular men in the business with which they are conversant,
are proofs no less irrefragable of the second. Can any argument be conceived which is more
decisive in favour of the moral economy to which even this lower world is subject, than the
undeniable fact, that virtue is fortified by exercise, and pain conquered by endurance; while
vice, like the bearer of the sibyl's books, extorts every hour a greater sacrifice for less
enjoyment? The passage in Mammon's speech is no less philosophically accurate than it is poetically
beautiful--

    "Out torments also may in length of time
    Become our elements, these piercing fires
    As soft as now severe, our temper changed
    Into their temper, which must needs remove
    The sensible of pain."

So does man pass on his way, from youth to manhood, from manhood till the shadow of death falls
upon him; and while his moral and physical structure adapts itself to the incessant vicissitudes
of his being, he imagines himself the same. The same in sunshine and in tempest--in the temperate
and the torrid zone--in sickness and in health--in joy and sorrow--at school and in the camp
or senate--still, still he is the same. His passions change, his pleasures alter; what once
filled him with rapture, is now indifferent, it may be loathsome. The friends of his youth
are his friends no longer--other faces are around him--other voices echo in his ears. Still
he is the same--the same, when chilling experience has taught him its bitter lesson, and when
life in all its glowing freshness first dawned upon his view. The same, when "vanity of vanities"
is graven upon his heart--as when his youthful fancy revelled in scenes of love, of friendship,
and of renown. The same, when cold, cautious, interested, suspicious, guilty--as when daring,
reckless, frank, confiding, innocent. Still the dream continues, still the vision lasts, until
some warning yet unknown--the tortures of disease, or the loss of the very object round which
his heartstrings were entwined, anguish within, and desolation without--stir him into consciousness,
and remind him of that fast approaching change which no illusion can conceal. Such is the pliability
of our nature, so varied are the modes of our being; and thus, through the benevolence of Him
who made us, the cause which renders our keenest pleasures transient, makes pain less acute,
and death less terrible.

It follows from this, that in youth positive attainment is a matter of little moment, compared
with the habits which our instructors encourage us to acquire. The fatal error which is casting
a blight over our plans of education, is to look merely to the immediate result, totally disregarding
the motive which has led to it, and the qualities of which it is the indication; yet, would
those to whom the delicate and most responsible task of education is confided, but consider
that habits of mind are formed by inward principle, and not external action, they would adopt
a more rational system than that to which mediocrity owes its present triumph over us; and
which bids fair to wither up, during another generation, the youth and hopes of England. Such
infatuation is equal to that of the husbandman who should wish to deprive the year of its spring,
and the plants of their blossoms, in hopes of a more nutritious and abundant harvest.

    "The inward principle required to give habits of industry,
    temperance, good temper, and so forth, is the express intention
    of being industrious, temperate, and gentle, and regulating one's
    actions accordingly. But the inward principle exercised by a
    routine of irksome restraints, submitted to passively on no other
    grounds but the laws of authority, or the influence of fashion,
    or imposed merely as the necessary condition of childhood, may be
    only that of yielding to present impression. He who, in youth,
    yields passively to fear or force, in after life may be found to
    yield equally to pleasure or temper; the habit of yielding to
    present impressions, in the first case, prepares the mind for
    yielding to them in the second, without any attempt at
    self-control.

    "The necessity of reducing the young, in the first instance, to
    implicit obedience, and the utility of a strict routine of
    duties, is not hereby disputed. The impressions arising from
    every species of restraint and coercion, whether from the command
    of another or our own reason, being almost invariably unpleasant
    at first, it is necessary (on the theory of habit) to weaken
    their force by repetition, before the principle of
    self-government can be expected to act. But the point insisted on
    is, that weakening the pain of restraint and of submission to
    rules, will not necessarily create an intention of adhering to
    the rules, when coercion ceases. An intention is a mental action,
    and even when excited, it is neither impossible nor uncommon that
    the practice of forming intentions may be accompanied by the
    practice of breaking them; and as the shame and remorse of so
    doing wear out through frequency, a character of weakness is
    formed."

Although we regret the omission of some observations on waste and prodigality--remarks in which
the most profound knowledge of the best authorities on this subject is tempered with a strict
attention to practical interest, and a minute acquaintance with the affairs of ordinary life--we
proceed to the chapters on "Frivolity and Ignorance," with which, and an admirable dissertation
on the authority of reason, the volume terminates. These chapters yield to none in this admirable
work for utility and importance; there are three subjects on which the influence of frivolity,
baneful as it always is, is most peculiarly dangerous and destructive--education, politics,
and religion. On all these great points, inseparably connected as they are with human happiness
and virtue, the frivolity of women may give a bias to the character of the individual, which
will be traced in his career to the last moment of his existence. The author well observes
that frivolity and ignorance, rather than deliberate guilt, are the causes of political error
and tergiversation. If there are few persons ready to devote themselves to the good of their
species, and carrying their attention beyond kindred and acquaintance, to comprise the most
distant posterity and regions the most remote within the scope of their benevolence; so there
are few of those monsters in selfishness, who would pursue their own petty interests when the
happiness of millions is an obstacle to its gratification; but as a leaf before the eye will
hide a universe, self-love limits the intellectual horizon to a compass inconceivably narrow;
and the prosperity of nations, when placed in the balance with a riband or a pension, has too
often kicked the beam. Professional business, and the love of detail, which is so deeply rooted
in most English natures, tends also to contract the thoughts, to erect a false standard of
merit, and to fill the mind with petty objects. As an instance of this, it may be remarked
that Lord Somers is the only great man who, in England, has ever filled a judicial situation.
So wide is the difference between present success and future reputation--so weak on all sides
but one, are those who have limited themselves to one side only--so technical and engrossing
are the avocations of an English lawyer. The best, if not the only remedy for this evil, is,
in the words of our author, the "study of well-chosen books."

    "Life must often consist of acts or concerns which, taken
    individually, are trivial; but the speculations of great minds
    relate to important objects. By their eloquence they draw forth
    the best emotions of which we are capable, they fill our minds
    with the knowledge of great and general truths, which, if they
    relate to the works of creation, exalt our nature and almost give
    us a new existence; or if they unfold the conditions and duties
    of human life, they kindle our desire for worthy ends, and teach
    us how to promote them. We learn to consider ourselves not as
    single and detached beings, with separate interests from others,
    but as parts of that great class who are the support of society--
    that is, the upright, the intelligent, and the industrious. Hence
    we cease to be absorbed by one set of narrow ideas; and the least
    duties are dignified by being viewed as parts of a general
    system. The bulk of mankind must and ought to confine their
    attention principally to their own immediate business. But if
    they who belong to the higher orders, do not avail themselves of
    their command of time, to enlarge their minds and acquire
    knowledge, one of the great uses of an upper class will be lost."

The trite and ridiculous axiom, the common refuge of imbecility, that women should take no
interest in politics, is then sifted and exposed; it would be as wise to say, that women should
take no interest in the blood that circulates through their bodies because they are not physicians,
or in the air they breathe because they are not chemists. The people who are most fond of repeating
this absurdity, are, it may be observed, the very people who are most furious with women for
not acquiescing at once in any absurdity which they may think proper to promulgate as an incontrovertible
truth. Ill temper, and rash opinions, and crude notions, are always mischievous; but it is
not in politics alone that they are exhibited, and the women most applauded for not meddling
with politics, (an expression which, as our author properly observes, assumes the whole matter
in dispute,) are generally those who adhere to the most obsolete doctrines with the greatest
tenacity, and pursue those who differ with them in opinion with the most unmitigated rancour.
In short, it is not till enquiry supersedes implicit belief, till violence gives place to reflection,
till the study of sound and useful writers takes the place of sweeping and indiscriminate condemnation,
that this aphorism is brought forward by those who would have listened with delight to the
wildest effusions of bigotry and ignorance. But in the work before us, the author (convincing
as her reasons are) has furnished the most complete practical refutation of this ridiculous error.

Infinitely worse, however, than any evil which can arise from this or any other source, is
that which the opinions and ideas of a frivolous woman must entail upon those unhappy beings
of whom she superintends the education.

The pursuit of eminence in trifles, the common sign of a bad heart, is an infallible proof
of a feeble understanding. A man may dishonour his birth, ruin his estate, lose his reputation,
and destroy his health, for the sake of being the first jockey or the favourite courtier of
his day. And how should it be otherwise, when from the lips whence other lessons should have
proceeded, selfishness has been inculcated as a duty, a desire for vain distinctions and the
love of pelf encouraged as virtues, and a splendid equipage, or it may be some bodily advantage,
pointed out as the highest object of human ambition? To set the just value on every enjoyment,
to choose noble and becoming objects of pursuit, are the first lessons a child should learn;
and if he does not learn their rudiments on his mother's knees, he will hardly acquire the
knowledge of them elsewhere. The least disparagement of virtue, the slightest admiration for
trifling and merely extrinsic objects, may produce an indelible effect on the tender mind of
youth; and the mother who has taught her son to bow down to success, to pay homage to wealth
and station, which virtue and genius should alone appropriate, is the person to whom the meanness
of the crouching sycophant, the treachery of the trading politician, the brutality of the selfish
tyrant, and the avarice of the sordid miser, in after life must be attributed.

This argument is closed by some very judicious remarks on the degree in which the perusal of
works of imagination is beneficial.

    "It is not easy to explain to a person whose mind is trifling,
    the consequences of the over-indulgence in passive impressions
    produced by light reading, or to make them understand the
    different effect produced by the highest order of works of
    imagination, and the trivial compositions which inundate the
    press, with no merit but some commonplace moral. Both are classed
    together as works of amusement; but the first enrich the mind
    with great and beautiful ideas, and, provided they be not
    indulged in to an extravagant excess, refine the feelings to
    generosity and tenderness. They counteract the sordid or the
    petty turn, which we are liable to contract from being wholly
    immersed in mere worldly business, or given up to the follies of
    the great world; in either case confined too much to intercourse
    with barren hearts and narrow minds. It is of great use to the
    'dull, sullen prisoner in the body's cage' sometimes 'to peep
    out,' and be made to feel that it has aspirations for somewhat
    more excellent than it has ever known; and that its own ideas can
    stretch forth into a grandeur beyond what this real existence
    provides for it. It is good for us to feel that the vices into
    which we are beguiled are hateful to our own minds in
    contemplation, and that it is our unconquerable nature to love
    and adore that virtue we do not, or cannot, attain to."

The remarks on the influence of frivolity on religion, on the mistaken name and worldly spirit
introduced amongst its most solemn ordinances, are no less excellent. After pointing out the
danger of mistaking excitement for devotion, and of separating the duties of man from the will
of God, the sanctions of religion from the lessons of morality, the writer observes--

    "The weak and ignorant are peculiarly liable to be infected with
    these doctrines, and to them they are peculiarly hurtful. Unable
    to take a just view of their particular duties, or of the uses
    and purposes of our natural faculties, creatures of impulse,
    slaves of circumstances, the pleasures of this hour fill them
    with vanity, the devotion of the next with enthusiasm, or perhaps
    terror. Charmed by worldly follies because they are ignorant or
    idle, and without resistance to vice because they have never
    learned self-command, they seek to extirpate all the natural
    emotions and desires which they do not know how to regulate, and
    so give up the world. But they deceive themselves; their moral
    defects are not lessened; they have only changed their objects.
    The frivolity which formerly made trifles absorb them, now spends
    itself on religion, which it degrades. Whatever the former
    defects of their character, whether selfishness, vanity, pride,
    ill-temper, indolence, or any other, it remains unconquered,
    though the manner in which it exhibits itself is different. In
    one respect they are much worse; formerly they were less blind to
    their own imperfections; they sometimes suspected they were
    wrong; now they are quite satisfied they are right; nor can they
    easily be undeceived, because, when about to examine their hearts
    and their conduct, the error in their views directs their efforts
    to a false standard."

We think we cannot more appropriately close the faint outline, in which we have endeavoured,
however feebly, to shadow forth the merit of these volumes, than by placing before our readers
the tribute to departed excellence, which this touching and finished picture is intended to convey.

    "Leaving the contemplation of feverish excitement, fantastic and
    complicated subtleties, angry zeal, and dissocial passions, I
    turn to the records of memory, where are graven for ever the
    lineaments of one who was indeed a disciple of Christ, and whose
    character seemed the earthly reflection of his. Wherever there
    was existence her benevolence flowed forth, never enfeebled by
    the distance of its object, yet flushing the least of daily
    pleasures with its warmth. Her views rose to the most
    comprehensive moral grandeur, while her calm, uncompromising
    energy against sin, was combined with an ever-flowing sympathy
    for weakness and woe. She spent her life in one continued system
    of active beneficence, in which her business, her projects, her
    pleasures, were but so many varied forms of serving her
    fellow-creatures. Never for a moment did a reflection for herself
    cross the current of her purposes for them. Her whole heart so
    went with their distresses and their joys, that she scarcely
    seemed to have an interest apart from theirs. The simplicity of
    her character was peculiarly striking, in the unhesitating
    readiness with which she received--I might even say, with which
    she grasped at--the correction of her errors, and listened to the
    suggestions of other persons. One undivided desire possessed her
    mind--it was not to seem right, but to do right.

    "What heightened the resemblance between her and the model she
    followed, was, that her counsels came not from a bosom that had
    never been shaken with the passions she admonished, or the
    sorrows she endeavoured to soothe. Her character was one of deep
    sensibility and passions strong even to violence; but they were
    controlled and directed by such vivid faith as has never been
    surpassed. Her long life had tried her with almost every pang
    that attends the attachment of such beings to the mortal and the
    suffering, the erring and perverse; and when those sorrows came,
    that reached her heart through its deepest and most sacred
    affections, the passion burst forth, that showed what the energy
    of that principle must have been, that could have brought such a
    mind to a tenor of habitual calmness and serenity. When every
    element of anguish had been mingled together in one dreadful cup,
    and reason for a week or two was tottering in its seat, she was
    seen to resume the struggle against the passions that for a
    moment had conquered. The bonds that attached her to life were
    indeed broken for ever, but she recovered her heart-felt
    submission to God, and she learned by degrees again to be happy
    in the happiness she gave.

    "It was this depth and strength of feeling that gave her a power
    over others, seldom surpassed, I believe, by any other mortal. In
    her the erring and the wretched found a sure refuge from
    themselves. The weakness that shrunk from the censure or the
    scorn of others, could be poured out to her as to one whose
    mission upon earth was to pity and to heal; for she knew the
    whole range of human infirmity, and that the wisest have the
    roots of those frailties that conquer the weak. But in restoring
    the fallen to their connexion with the honoured, she never held
    out a hope that they might parley with their temptations, or
    lower their standard of virtue: a confession to her cut off all
    self-delusion as to culpable conduct or passions. While she
    inspired the most uncompromising condemnation of the thing that
    was wrong, she never advised what was too hard for the "bruised
    reed;" she chose not the moment of excitement to rebuke the
    misguidings of passion, nor of weakness to point out the rigour
    of duty. But strength came in her presence: she seemed to bring
    with her irresistible evidence that any thing could be done which
    she said ought to be done. The truths of religion, stripped of
    fantastic disguises, appeared at her call with a living reality,
    and for a time, at least, the troubles of life sank down to their
    just level. When our sorrows are too big for our own bosoms, if
    others receive then with stoicism, it repels all desire to seek
    relief at their hands; but the calmness with which she attended
    to the effusions and perturbations of grief, seemed the earnest
    of safety from one who had passed through the storm. The deep and
    tender expression of her noble countenance suggested that feeling
    with which a superior being might be supposed to look down from
    heaven on the anguish of those who are still in the toils, but
    know not the reward that awaits them.

    "Every thing petty seemed to drop off from her mind, but she
    imbibed the spirit of essentials so perfectly, she followed it
    throughout with such singleness of heart, that its influence
    affected her minutest actions, not by an effort of studied
    attention, but with the steadiness of a natural law. Nature and
    revelation she regarded as the two parts of one great connected
    system; she always contemplated the one with reference to the
    other; her views were therefore all practical and free from
    confusion, and nothing that promoted the welfare of this world
    could cease to be a part of her duty to God. It was her maxim
    that the motive dignified the action, however trivial in itself;
    and all the actions of her life were ennobled by the motive of
    obedience to an all-powerful Being, because he is the pure
    essence of wisdom and goodness. In the virtue of those who had
    not the consoling belief of the Christian, she still saw the
    handwriting of God, that cannot be effaced from a generous mind;
    and she used to dwell with delight on the idea that the good man,
    from whose eyes the light of faith was withheld in this life,
    would arise with rapture in the next, to the knowledge that a
    happiness was in store for him which he had not dared to believe.

    "It was not the extent of her intellectual endowments that made
    her the object of veneration to all who knew her; it was her
    extraordinary moral energy. The clear and vigorous view she took
    of every subject arose chiefly from her habit of looking directly
    for its bearing on virtue or happiness; she saw the essential at
    a glance, or could not be diverted from the truth by a passion or
    a prejudice. Hence, also, her lofty undeviating justice; her
    regard to the rights of others was so scrupulous, that every one
    within reach of her influence reposed on her decisions with
    unhesitating trust; nor would the certainty that the interests of
    those she loved best were involved, have cast a shadow of doubt
    over her stainless impartiality.

    "Nevertheless, she generally read the characters of artifice and
    insincerity with intuitive quickness, though it was often
    believed she was duped by those whom she saw through completely.
    Of this she was aware, but she was so exempt from all desire to
    prove her sagacity, that she never cared to correct the
    misconception; and she held that it was neither useful nor quite
    justifiable to expose all the pretences we may discover, till it
    became necessary to set the unwary on their guard.

    "She never renounced the innocent pleasures or pursuits of life,
    nor the proprieties of a distinguished station, though she
    partook so little of its luxuries, that she could pass from the
    splendour of her own establishment to one the most confined,
    apparently without sensibility to the change. Wherever she moved,
    she inspired joy and cheerfulness; yet she was by no means
    unreserved, except to those she tenderly loved, and it was
    surprising how any manner so gentle, could at the same time
    oppose a barrier so impassable to the advances of the unworthy.
    She enjoyed the beauty of nature with passion. Her mind, at an
    advanced age, had all the elasticity and animation of the prime
    of life, and she could be led to forget half the night in the
    excitement of conversation. Happy were the hours spent with her
    in the discussion of every subject that could call forth her
    opinions, and her wide knowledge of the eventful times in which
    she had lived!--hours that exalted the feelings, informed the
    understandings, and animated the playfulness of younger minds,
    who found that forty years of difference between their age and
    hers, took nothing from their sympathies, but added a new and
    rare delight to their intercourse.

    "But she is gone! To those who knew her, her counsels are silent
    and her place void; but there remains the distinct consciousness,
    that to them had been given a living evidence of the true
    Christian spirit, for if hers were not true, than many errors be
    more excellent than truth! Far distant, and with unequal steps,
    they endeavour to follow her course and perhaps the distaste with
    which they turn from the defective and ill-proportioned models
    that are forced on their admiration, is scarcely consistent with
    the charity she always taught."

Great, indeed, is the task assigned to woman. Who can elevate its dignity? who can exaggerate
its importance? Not to make laws, not to lead armies, not to govern empires, but to form those
by whom laws are made, and armies led, and empires governed; to guard from the slightest taint
of possible infirmity the frail, and as yet spotless creature whose moral, no less than his
physical, being must be derived from her; to inspire those principles, to inculcate those doctrines,
to animate those sentiments, which generations yet unborn, and nations yet uncivilized, shall
learn to bless; to soften firmness into mercy, to chasten honour into refinement, to exalt
generosity into virtue; by her soothing cares to allay the anguish of the body, and the far
worse anguish of the mind; by her tenderness to disarm passion; by her purity to triumph over
sense; to cheer the scholar sinking under his toil; to console the statesman for the ingratitude
of a mistaken people; to be the compensation for hopes that are blighted, for friends that
are perfidious, for happiness that has passed away. Such is her vocation--the couch of the
tortured sufferer, the prison of the deserted friend, the scaffold of the godlike patriot,
the cross of a rejected Saviour; these are the scenes of woman's excellence, these are the
theatres on which her greatest triumphs have been achieved. Such is her destiny--to visit the
forsaken, to attend to the neglected; amid the forgetfulness of myriads to remember--amid the
execrations of multitudes to bless; when monarchs abandon, when counsellors betray, when justice
persecutes, when brethren and disciples fly, to remain unshaken and unchanged; and to exhibit,
on this lower world, a type of that love--pure, constant, and ineffable--which in another world
we are taught to believe the best reward of virtue.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PLEA FOR ANCIENT TOWNS AGAINST RAILWAYS.

It is impossible to look, without surprise, to the progress of the railway system since the
first experiment in 1830. The Liverpool and Manchester line was opened in the September of
that year, at an expense of £.1,200,000; and in the thirteen years since that period, line
after line has been laid down and opened for traffic, till the completed railways amount to
many hundred miles in length, and the expenditure of capital has been many millions of money.

The advantages of a line between Manchester and Liverpool were obvious. It connected the two
towns--the importing and the manufacturing--which needed connexion the most; and, in fact,
the harbour gained an enormous manufacturing population, and the population gained a harbour.
The outlay, prodigious as it was, was found a profitable investment; but the benefits of the
improvement were so great that the mere profits on the undertaking, as a pecuniary speculation,
were lost sight of, in the higher view of the impetus given to the trade of these two main
seats of our commercial enterprize. It became a national undertaking; Birmingham and the other
wealthy towns were determined to have the same advantage; London became, of course, the great
centre to which every new line tended; and in an incredibly short space of time, at an incredible
expenditure of money, the iron and cotton emporiums of the north, the packet stations of the
south and south-west, the agricultural and manufacturing districts of the north-east, all were
moved into the actual neighbourhood of the capital. The beautiful Southampton water flowed
within three hours of the Bank. Ipswich was not much further off than Hammersmith; and Bath
and Bristol were but a morning's drive from Buckingham palace or Windsor.

What has been the effect of all these improvements, and to what do they all tend?

If the whole prosperity of a nation depended on rapidity of conveyance, there could be but
one answer to the enquiry--but even in that case the prosperity must depend on rapidity of
conveyance between the particular places which the railway unites--Manchester and Liverpool,
Birmingham and London, and generally the great towns at the termini, and some throughout all
of the intermediate stations, have cause to rejoice in the improvement. And land and houses
in the neighbourhood have increased in value, their correspondence is conducted in half the
time, and money is of course distributed in fertilizing rills by the crowds of travellers who
pass through them on their way to join the train. But these advantages are local, and an opinion
is now gaining ground that they are obtained at the expense of other places. What possible
benefit can accrue to a town or neighbourhood near which the railway passes, but where there
is no station? Can it encourage the trade of such a town as Dangley or Standon to know, that
the five or six thousand beings who are whirled past them, with almost invisible rapidity,
every day, arrive in Liverpool in ten hours after leaving London? On the contrary, is it not
found to be directly injurious to them by the encouragement it gives to towns and villages
more favourably situated; while their inns become deserted, their tradespeople are drifted
out of the great stream of business, their turn-pikes are ruined, and grass grows in their
streets. Let us take any one of the great lines, and see the number of towns whose ancient
prosperity it has destroyed. From London to York a few years ago, ten or twelve coaches gave
life and animation to all the places they passed through. Their hotels and commercial rooms
were filled at every blowing of the guard's horn; tradespeople looked out from behind their
counters with a smile, as, with a dart and rattle, the four thoroughbred greys pulled the well-known
fast coach up the street, loaded inside and out. They became proud of their Tally-ho, or Phenomenon;
they got their newspapers and parcels "with accuracy and despatch," and enjoyed the natural
advantages of their situation. Now the case is altered; a two-horse coach, or perhaps an omnibus,
jumbles occasionally to the railway station, and the traveller complains that it takes him
longer time to go the ten or twelve miles across the country than all the rest of the journey.
Then he grumbles at the inconvenience of changing his mode of conveyance, and only revisits
the out-of-the-way place when he cannot avoid it.

A person settling in one of these towns twenty years ago, establishing trade, buying or building
premises, in the belief that, however business may alter from other causes, his geographical
position must, at all events, continue unchanged, must be as much astonished as was Macbeth
at the migratory propensities of Birnam forest, when he perceives that towns a hundred miles
down the road have actually walked between him and London; get their town parcels much earlier,
and have digested and nearly forgotten their newspaper, while he is waiting in a fever of expectation
to know whether rums is much riz or sugars is greatly fell. He calls for a branch railway to
put him on equal terms; but a vast hill, perhaps, rises between him and the main line--it would
cost forty thousands pounds a mile--he must bore an enormous tunnel, and fill up a prodigious
valley, and the united wealth of all the shopkeepers in the town would fall far short of the
required half million. He sinks down in sheer despair, or takes to drinking with the innkeeper,
who has already had an attack of delirium tremens, gives up the Times newspaper for the Weekly
Despatch, and thinks Mr Frost a much injured character, and Rebecca a Welsh Hampden. The railway
has touched his pocket, and the iron has entered into his soul. He feels as if he lived at
the Land's-End, or had emigrated to the back woods of America. All the world goes at a gallop,
and he creeps. Finally, he is removed to Hanwell, and endeavours to persuade Dr Conolly that
he is one of Stephenson's engines, and goes hissing and spurting in fierce imitation of Rapid
or Infernal. And all this is the natural consequence of having settled in an ancient city inaccessible
to rails. A list could easily be made out that would astonish any one who had not reflected
on the subject before, of cities and towns which must yield up their relative rank to more
aspiring neighbourhoods on whom the gods of steam and iron have smiled. It will be sufficient
to point out a few instances in some of the main lines of mail-coach travelling, and see what
their position is now.

Let us go to Lincoln, region of fens and enterprize, of fat land and jolly yeomen. The mail
is just ready to start; we pay our fare, and, after seeing our luggage carefully deposited
in the recesses of the boot, we mount beside the red-faced, much-becoated individual who is
flickering his whip in idle listlessness on the box; the guard gives a triumphal shout on his
short tin horn, the flickering of the whip ceases, the horses snort and paw, and finally, in
a tempest of sound and a whirlwind of dust, we career onward from the Saracen's head, and watch
the stepping of the stately team with pride and exultation--a hundred and forty miles before
us, and thirteen hours on the road.

In fifty-five minutes we are at Barnet--pick up a stout gentleman and plethoric portmanteau
in the green shades of Little Heath lane; and dashing through Hatfield, as if we were announcing
Waterloo, change horses again at Stanborough. Away, away, the coach and we, with two very jolly
fellows on the roof, and cross in due time the beautiful river Lea, scattering letter-bags
at every gentleman's lodge as we pass, with a due proportion of fish-baskets and other diminutive
parcels. Hedges, row after row, dance past us with all their leaves and blossoms--milestone
after milestone is merrily left behind--we have crossed the Maran, the Joel; the sluggish Ouse,
trotted gaily on under the shadow of the episcopal towers of Buckden, and perform wonders with
a knife and fork, in the short space of twenty minutes, in the comfortable hotel at Stamford.
Refreshed and invigorated with a couple of ducks and a vast goblet of home-brewed--for it is
well known we and all other good subjects are rigid anti-Mathewsians--we continue our course
through unnumbered villages and market towns, Coltersworth, Spittlegate, Ponton, Grantham,
till Newark opens her hospitable gates; and finally, as "the shades of eve begin to fall,"
we descend from our proud eminence and commit ourselves to the tender attentions of a civil
landlord, two waiters, and a stout chambermaid, in the chief inn of the good town of Lincoln.

Many coaches followed our track. Like the waves of the summer, as one rolled away, another
as bright and as shining, came on. Every lane formed a "terminus," where a motion of the hand
gave notice to the coachman that a passenger wished to get in; and it is impossible to doubt
that the traffic along that smooth and wide highway was a source of prosperity to the whole
neighbourhood.

The coaches are now off the road--the letters are carried by a mail train, and forwarded across
in a high gig with red wheels, and the liveliness and bustle of all the villages and country
towns are gone--a few more years, and the ruin of every turnpike trust in England will be another
proof of the irresistible power of steam.

It is not contended that rapid intercommunication is an evil; or even that the towns we have
mentioned, and hundreds of others, in all parts of the country, do not participate in the advantage,
to the extent of being within a shorter distance of London than they were before; for it is
evident, that to go to Lincoln would occupy less time if you went to Leicester by the railroad,
and travelled the remaining miles by coach. But this is what we maintain--that towns or lines
of road through which the railway runs, have an undue advantage--and that the prosperity so
acquired, is at the expense of the towns which are not only at a distance from the new mode
of communication, but are deprived of the old. Twelve years ago, upwards of a hundred coaches
passed through Oxford in the four-and-twenty hours. We will be bound to say, not half a dozen
pass through it now; and whatever the University may think upon the subject, it is certain
that the alteration is of great detriment to the town, and makes little less difference to
the Corn-market and High Street, than the turning the course of the Thames would do to Westminster
and Wapping. Who is to keep the beautiful roads by Henley and High Wickham in repair? And who
is to restore a value to the inns at the tidy comfortable towns along the line? Will the prosperity
of Steveton bring back the gaieties of Tetsworth or Beaconsfield, and the numerous villages
within an easy distance of the road? We repeat it--the towns which formerly enjoyed the natural
advantages of their geographical position, are now deprived of them; they become subordinates
instead of principals, and will sink more and more, as new competitors arise in the towns which
will infallibly gather round every railway station.

In every county there are numbers of towns whose fate is sealed, unless some great effort is
made to preserve their existence: Marlborough, Devizes, Hindon, Guildford, Farnham, Petersfield,
the whole counties of Rutland and Dorset, and the greater part of Lincoln, besides hundreds,
or probably thousands, of other places of inferior note.

But what is the effort that should be made, and how are the parties interested to bring their
powers to bear in staving off the destruction that threatens them? It is to these points we
are now about to address ourselves; and we trust, in spite of the lightness of some parts of
this paper; the real weight of the subject will command the notice of all who feel anxious
to benefit any neighbourhood in the position of some of those we have mentioned. And the attention
of the trustees of high-roads throughout the kingdom is solicited to the following suggestions.

