87

   Easthampton

     "You enter beside the Great Pond, which is so
     charming in itself and in its flat frame of village
     green"                                                95

   Long Island--South shore

     "Artists would find a paradise of queer, cozy
     gables, and corners of gardens crowded with
     old-fashioned flowers"                               102

     "Southampton's soul is very, very old, full of
     memories of Indians"                                 122

   Sunnyside

     "Washington Irving's dear old Dutch house is
     like a beautiful living body with his memory
     for its soul"                                        190

     "The old Dutch Church at Tarrytown"                  197

   The Hudson River

     "When we came into sudden sight of the river
     there was a magical effect"                          207

   Delaware Water Gap
     "Winding and wonderful it was in beauty"             213

     "The mountains seem cleft in twain. It's a
     marvellous effect--startling"                        216

   York
     A bit of the rock-bound Maine coast                  303

   "The air is spiced with the fragrance of balsam
     fir...on the way to Crawford Notch"                  310

   "The young, slender birches of the mountain
     wayside"                                             319

   Crawford's Notch, White Mountains                      324

   "I shall always think of Vermont as the State
     of wild lawns and gardens"                           330

   "We found the Green Mountains particularly
     lovable"                                             336

   Captain Winston's maps pages 90, 114, 132, 209,
     216, 239, 258, 295, 311, 325, 331, and 339

THE LIGHTNING CONDUCTOR DISCOVERS AMERICA

I

THE HONBLE MRS. WINSTON (NÉE MOLLY RANDOLPH) TO HER FRIEND, THE COUNTESS OF LANE

                                       On Board SS. Evangeline,
                                                        March 15th.

DEAREST MERCÉDES:

It will be days, also nights (worse luck, for my cabin chirps like a cricket, sings like a
canary, and does a separate realistic imitation of each animal in the Zoo!), before we get
to New York. But I have crochet cramp and worsted wrist from finishing a million scarfs since
we sailed, so I feel it will ease the strain to begin a letter to you. I dare say, anyhow,
I shan't close it till the last minute, with a P. S. to say we're arriving safely--if we do!
One never knows nowadays. And we have on board a man who's been torpedoed twice. I hope he
isn't the kind to whom everything happens in threes. By the way, he's the Ship's Mystery, and
this letter can't be a complete record of the voyage unless I tell you about him. Place aux
dames, however. There's a girl I want to tell you about first. Or had I better polish off our
own family history and make a clean sweep of ourselves before beginning on anybody else? On
second thoughts, I will!

Jack's getting better splendidly. I can't say he's getting well, for that will take a long
time yet, I'm sorry to--but no, to be an Honest Injun, I'm not sorry. I'm glad--glad! He's
done his "bit"--quite a large bit--for his country, and if his bones and muscles were knitting
as rapidly as I knit socks for soldiers, he would insist on rushing back to do another bit.
Of course he wouldn't have consented to come over here, even for the three months I've made
him (figuratively speaking) "sign on for," if the doctors hadn't all said he'd be a crock for
months. Even he has to admit that he may as well crock in America as anywhere else; and I've
persuaded him that I can't possibly decide what to do with the place Cousin John Randolph Payton
left me on Long Island without his expert advice. It may be the first time I was ever unable
to decide a thing by myself, but there must be a first time, you know. And I'm simply purring
with joy to have Jack at my mercy like this, after all I went through with him at the front.
We shall celebrate a wedding day presently. Ten years married, and I adore Jack just ten times
more than I did the day I exchanged a Lightning Conductor for a husband.

He does look too interesting since he was wounded! All the girls gaze at him as if he were
a matinee idol or a moving-picture star, and naturally they don't think I'm worthy of him in
the least--an opinion in which I agree. Luckily, he doesn't. I believe he admires me as much
as I do him. And really, I'm not so bad to look at, I notice, now I've begun to live again
and don't need to worry over Jack every instant. I had feared it might be necessary to own
up to twenty-nine, only two years short of my real age, which would be so wasteful. But thank
goodness, I see now I can safely retreat in good order back to twenty-five, and stay there
for some time to come. I always did feel that if girl or woman found a nice, suitable age,
she ought to stick to it!

That's all about us, I think. So, speaking of girls, I'll tell you about the one I mentioned.
I want to tell you, because Jack and I are both passionately interested and perhaps a little
curious. Consequently I expect her fate and ours, as the palmists say, will be mixed together
while we live on Long Island. In that case, she's sure to be served up to you toasted, iced,
sugared, and spiced, in future letters, so she may as well be introduced to you now: "The Countess
of Lane--Miss Patricia Moore." Nice name, isn't it? Almost as nice as yours before you were
married to Monty. She has informed me, however, that she hates the Patricia part because it
sounds as if she turned up her nose in pride of birth, whereas God turned it up when He made
her--or else her nurse let her lie on it when she was asleep. Anyhow, it's tilted just right,
to make her look like one of those wonderful girls on American magazine covers, with darling
little profiles that show the long curve of lashes on their off, as well as their near, eyelid.
You know that engaging effect?

I have been invited to call her "Patty," or "Pat," both of which names were in use at the French
convent school she has lately left. But I think she will have to be "Patsey" for me, as to
my mind it's more endearing. And "endearing" is a particularly suitable adjective for her.
Constantly, when looking at the creature, I find myself wanting to hum, "Believe me, if all
those endearing young charms," etc. There are simply crowds of them--charms, I mean. Big blue
eyes under those eyelashes, and above them, too, for the under lashes are a special feature;
clouds of black wavy hair; and milky-white skin such as true Irish beauties have in poems,
where it's not so difficult as in real life. This girl is American, not Irish, but she's certainly
the Beauty of the ship.

She is the happiest thing you ever saw: and apparently she's coming home (she calls it "home,"
though she hasn't seen America since she was ten) as a conquering hero comes marching into
a blaze of glory. All the same, I'm sorry for her. I have a sort of impression--but why be
a croaking raven? I really don't see why! Every prospect pleases, and there's no reason man
should be particularly vile. When I allude thus flippantly to "man," I refer to Papa Moore.
I suppose when one comes to analyze that "sort of an impression" the danger-note is sounded
to my heart by the girl's description of her father.

Not that she calls him "father," or even "papa," or "dad." She calls him "Larry," his name
being Laurence. She worships the ground he walks on, she says, which is sweet of her, as very
little of it has been walked on in her neighbourhood for the last nine years.

It seems that Mamma and Larry made a runaway match, when he was twenty and a half and Mamma
seventeen and a quarter. He ran from college and she ran from boarding-school. Mamma was an
heiress; Larry was poor. However, he had a lovely old house on Long Island (or rather his people
had it) and he came into it later when the others had kindly died: a very historic old house,
according to Miss Pat. She's intensely proud of her parents' romance, and the fact that Larry
is at this present time only forty-one. "Of course forty-one is old," she explained to Jack
and me, "but not for the father of a grown-up girl, is it? It couldn't be done younger! And
when you meet him, you'll see--why, you'll see that I look old enough to be his mother!"

(She had her nineteenth birthday with a present of a motor car to celebrate it, just before
leaving France, and she looks sixteen. So naturally Jack and I are curious to behold Larry.
If her description fits, he must be rather like the father in Anstey's "Vice Versa.")

When Pat was ten, Mamma twenty-eight, and Father thirty-one, the trio went to Europe, which
I think mostly meant Paris. Mamma was taken with pneumonia after an Embassy ball, at which
she was the prettiest woman, and died of her triumph. Larry didn't know what to do with the
child. But some sympathetic soul who wanted to save the dear boy trouble advised him to plant
his little flower in the soil of France, where he could come once in a while to see how she
grew. He took the advice, and Patty was planted in a convent school, where she has stayed till
now, as he never seemed ready to dig her up.

Just what Larry has done with himself meanwhile is not explained in this first chapter of the
romance, which is as far as we have got. All Patty knows is that he left "important business"
to dash over twice and see her: once when she was thirteen, once again three years later. He
was "too handsome for words," and "the girls were all wild about him." Since then, nothing
doing--except letters and cheques. Apparently Larry was under the impression that once a schoolgirl,
always a schoolgirl. Anyhow, he put off indefinitely the happy day when he could take his fair
young daughter to reign over his home. The Mother Superior wrote when Pat was going to be eighteen,
and Larry said he would come, but didn't. Patty is sure he couldn't, because "he adores her
just as she adores him," and is dying for the time when they can be together. At last, owing
to the war, all the older girls were leaving the school except Patricia Moore; so Larry's memory
had to be jogged, and this time he opened his heart and sent for Pat. Dreadfully sorry he couldn't
fetch her himself, but gave carte blanche for everything a girl could possibly want in travelling,
except a father.

I told you about the high-powered French motor car. Well, there's an even higher powered French
maid. She's the kind that you could describe as "and suite," without the slightest snobbishness
or exaggeration, when registering your name in the visitors' book at a hotel. The car, which
Larry told Pat to buy for herself as a birthday present from him, is forty horsepower, I believe;
whereas I'm much mistaken if Angéle isn't about a hundred demon-power. She's geared terribly
high, can "crank" herself I should imagine, and has the smartest new type of body, all glittering
paint and varnish. Isn't it nice that her name should be Angéle? It wasn't the Mother Superior
who engaged this guardian angel for Miss Moore, but the dear old Paris friend of Larry's who
advised the convent in the first place. Angéle was her maid, taken over from a princess--an
Albanian one, or something Balkanic or volcanic. The old friend is a Marquise, and my opinion
is that her genius lies in finding safe harbours for incubuses (is there such a word, or should
it be "incubi?"). Heaven knows what explosive thing may happen if the high-powered Angéle doesn't
fancy her new garage and petrol.

Besides the car and the maid, Mademoiselle Patsey is bringing with her to America a regular
trousseau for her début, which is to take place in the grand manner. She won't let me see Larry's
photograph because it doesn't do him justice, and because she wants him to burst upon me as
a brilliant surprise; but she has shown me as much of the trousseau as her stateroom and Angéle's
can contain. The rest's in the hold, and forms quite a respectable cargo. If everything comes
off as Patsey expects it to do (and after all, as I said, why shouldn't it?) I do think that
she and her charm and her clothes are likely to dazzle New York. Nothing prettier can have
happened there or anywhere for a long time.

By the way, did you ever hear of a Laurence Moore of Long Island, whose place is called Kidd's
Pines? There may be half a directory bursting with Laurence Moores, but there can be only one
with an address like Kidd's Pines. It's named after a clump of pines supposed to be a kind
of landmark for treasure buried by Captain Kidd. Either the treasure is buried under the trees,
somewhere between their roots and China, or the pines point to it. Can pines point? I don't
see how they can, any more than a pumpkin can point; but perhaps nobody else being able to
see is the reason why the treasure's never been found.

We haven't many young men on board. Most of the young men who travel are going the other way
just now; and that makes our Ship's Mystery more conspicuous. One reason he's so conspicuous
is because he's travelling third class. (We used to call it steerage!) Maybe you'll say that
travelling third class doesn't usually make people mysterious: it makes them smell of disinfectants.
Also it puts them Beyond the Pale. Not that I or any other nice woman can tell precisely what
a Pale is. But anyhow, if you go third class you have to show your tongue if the least important
person demands a sight of it. And if that doesn't put you beyond Pales and everything else,
I don't know what does.

That's why this man deserves such extraordinary credit for being interesting and mysterious.
Even if caught in the act of displaying his tongue to the doctor, I believe you'd say, should
you see a snapshot: "Who is that man?"

Now, haven't I worked up to him well? Don't you want to hear the rest? Well, so do we. For
we don't know anything at all, except that if we go and gaze over the rail of the first-class
part of this old-fashioned tub of a ship, into the third-class part, we can generally observe
a young man who looks like an Italian prince (I mean, the way an Italian prince ought to look)
telling the steerage children stories or teaching them games. I'm not sure if he's exactly
handsome, but there must be something remarkable about him, or all the first-class passengers
wouldn't have begun asking each other or the ship's officers or even the deck stewards on the
first day out, the question I suggested: "Who is that man?"

I believe, by the by, it was a deck steward I asked. I've always found that they know everything.
Or what they don't know they cook up more excitingly than if bound to dull facts.

I added to the question aforesaid--"Who is that man?"--another: "And how does he come to be
in the steerage?"

It was the second question which got answered first. "I suppose, my lady"--(Whiffitts will
anticipate the far future by calling me "my lady")--"that all his money was torpedoed."

This explanation raised such a weird picture (can't you see the thing happening?) that Whiffitts
was obliged to begin at the beginning, and not stop till he came to the end, my eager look
a prophesied mine of half-crowns.

Whiffitts simply loved telling me. It is nice knowing something somebody else doesn't know
and is dying to! The name of the Ship's Mystery is supposed to be Storm, Peter Storm. I say
"supposed," advisedly. Because it may be anything. They don't worry with passenger lists for
third-class people; they're just a seething, nameless mass, apparently. But anything remarkable
bubbles up to the top, as in the case of the alleged Peter Storm. Naturally, his fellow-passengers
have nicknamed him "The Stormy Petrel."

What is he really? we wonder. A jewel shines more brightly at night, and perhaps it's the contrast
between the Stormy Petrel and those "fellow-passengers" of his which makes him look so very
great a gentleman, despite the fact that his clothes might have been bought at a second hand--no,
a fourth or fifth hand--shop. The creature wears flannel shirts (he seems, thank heaven, to
have several to change with, of different colours) and they have low, turn-over collars. Apparently
all his neckties were torpedoed with his money, for he never sports one. Instead, he ties himself
up in red or black silk handkerchiefs, very ancient and faded; and if you will believe me,
my dear girl, the effect is most distinguished!

I told you that he looks as an Italian prince ought to look and seldom does; but he claims
American citizenship. He sailed from New York in the Lusitania, and was among those saved.
Far from advertising this adventure, the hero of it would apparently have kept silence if he
could; but it leaked out somehow in Ireland, Whiffits doesn't quite know how. In any case,
at the time of taking passage on the Arabic back to America, months later, paragraphs about
the man's Lusitania experience appeared in the papers. He was catechized at the consulate when
trying to get a passport for the United States, and it came out then that there was no Peter
Storm on board the Lusitania. Our Mystery explained, however, that in the third class there
was a passenger registered as "Peter Sturm." The name, according to him, was spelled wrongly
at the time. Nobody has since contradicted this statement, so it has been given the benefit
of the doubt. Once more the man's luck bobbed up on board the Arabic, where he was saved again,
and behaved well, rescuing a lot of people. What he did in that way on the Lusitania isn't
known; but the searchlight of fame was turned full upon him after the Arabic, and has never
ceased to play around his head. By the by, the said head was wounded in the Arabic affair,
and bears a scar which runs down over the left temple and is rather becoming. Also he got pneumonia
from exposure, and lay dangerously ill for some time. Several persons whose lives he saved
wanted to give him money, but he refused to accept. He was nursed at a hospital in Ireland,
and when he grew strong enough he found work, in order to pay his own way to America. What
he is going to turn his hand to over there he doesn't seem to know, or won't tell.

We have a real live millionairess on the Evangeline an American millionairess from the West
somewhere, a Mrs. Shuster. She's a widow, about forty-five, common but kind. For "two twos"
I believe she would adopt the Stormy Petrel. She's been in Switzerland, where people used to
go to eat chocolate and see mountains, and where they now go to make proposals of peace. I
believe she made some, but nobody listened much, so she came away disappointed and fiercely
determined to do good somewhere or know the reason why! She's a stout, wildly untidy woman
whose mouse-coloured hair is always coming down, though it's freely dotted with irrelevant
tortoise-shell combs; and whose elaborate clothes look somehow insecure, the way scree does
on the side of a mountain. Her ideas leap out of her brain like rabbits out of holes, and then
go scuttling away again, to be followed ineffectively by others: and her latest is benefiting
the Ship's Mystery. She's sure he can't be American, because Americans don't have eyes like
wells of ink, and short, close black beards like those of English or Italian naval officers.
Her theory is that he's a subject of some belligerent country, who has conscientious scruples
against fighting. The fact that he sailed from New York on the Lusitania last spring can't
convince the lady that she is wrong in her "deductions," as Sherlock Holmes would say. It only
complicates the mystery a little and adds ramifications.

To my mind, Mr. Storm hasn't at all the look of a man opposed to fighting. I believe he would
love it. The odd thing to me is, where there's such wide opportunity on one side or the other,
that he isn't doing it. And Jack thinks so, too. I do hope he isn't a spy or an anarchist,
or a person who takes passage on ships to blow them up or signal to submarines or something.

Of course I haven't suggested such horrors to Mrs. Shuster; and yesterday she made up an exploring
party for the steerage, so as to open communications with the desired protégé. The first officer
had promised to take her, and she asked me to join them. I happened to be talking to Patsey
Moore at the time, and saw by the way her eyes lighted that she was dying to go, too. So I
got her included in the invitation.

It was a lovely calm day, the long level lines of the sea punctuated with porpoises, dear things
like giant commas. A good many of the third-class passengers were writing letters on their
knees, and the quaintest paper. Among these was the Man of Mystery; and Mrs. Shuster sailed
up to him, billowing out in the breeze of her own enthusiasm.

"We've all heard of you," she said. "And the splendid things you did on the Arabic."

Actually the man blushed! He rose up politely; and as he is very tall and straight, rather
thin, and extremely dark, he reminded me of a cedar towering beside one of those squat Dutch
trees cut into the shape of some domestic animal.

"I really did nothing," he protested, with that guilty redness spreading over his olive face,
and making him more mysterious than ever. Because he had the air of being found out in something.
And the blush began before Mrs. Shuster got as far as mentioning the Arabic. It was more as
if he were afraid she had met him before and recognized him.

"Well, other people are better judges of that than yourself," the dear lady contradicted him.
"I, and a lot more first-class passengers, feel it's a shame you should be here. We want you
to be up with us and--and telling us all about your adventures. The favour wouldn't be from
us to you, but the other way round, if you accepted the price of a cabin. We're sure you're
a gentleman----"

At that it was Patsey's and my turn to blush! It was such an awful thing to say to the man,
though the poor woman meant so blunderingly well. P. and I were in the background--an easy
place to be, because there's so much of Mrs. Shuster. We weren't even a chorus, because we
hadn't made a sound or a gesture, and didn't intend to make one. But the colour effect was
unrehearsed and unavoidable. I felt a regular blush of red to the head, as I used to say when
I was small, and Pat grew scarlet as if she'd been suddenly slapped. I expected to see the
forked lightning of scorn dart from those immense dark eyes of Storm's: but instead they crinkled
up in an engaging smile. One glance the man gave Pat and me, against his own will I think:
but it was a spontaneous combustion of his sense of humour. It struck a spark to ours, and
I dared to smile also. Pat didn't quite dare, but looked relieved, though still evidently scared
about what might come next, and intensely, painfully interested.

"Thank you very much," said Mr. Storm. "I'm afraid you flatter me, madam. I make no such pretension.
It's kind of you to think of promoting me, but this is my place. I shouldn't feel at home going
first class, I assure you. I haven't either the manners or the clothes to make me comfortable
there."

"Why, I think your manners are beautiful," that miserable millionairess assured him, while
my mouth felt dry, and I'm sure Patsey's became arid as the Libyan Desert.

"We'll all risk that, if you'll come and entertain us with stories of your adventures. As for
clothes, I can take up a collection for you from among the gentlemen of the first class. A
shirt here, a coat there. They'd be delighted."

"Thank you again," responded the victim, still smiling. "But I should be--a misfit. And I haven't
a story worth telling. I'm no Scherezadé. I'm very grateful for your interest, madam, but my
best way of showing it is to stay where I am--and where I belong."

"You're ever so much too modest," the unfortunate lady persisted. "Isn't he, Mrs. Winston?"

I prickled all over like a cactus. "I think Mr. Petrel--I mean Mr. Storm--can decide for himself
better than we can," I stammered.

He looked at me, and then beyond me at Pat. "I'm really grateful," he repeated.

Even Mrs. Shuster understood that the rare plant preferred to remain in the kitchen garden
with the vegetables, and that she could not uproot it.

"Well," she said reluctantly, "I'm sorry you feel that way. But do let me do something to--to
show my appreciation of your gallant conduct on the Arabic. You're evidently a man of education.
I see that, in spite of all you say. It isn't true, is it, that you're an American?"

"Quite true, madam," he answered coolly. "Do I speak like a foreigner?"

"Not like a foreigner, exactly. But--well, I don't know. I must take your word for it. I guess,
though, you've spent a good deal of time in other countries?"

"I've been here and there," he admitted. "I had the craze for travel in my blood as a boy."
As he spoke, he smiled again, as if at some odd memory.

"I dare say you know several languages?" suggested Mrs. Shuster.

"Oh, I've picked up Russian--and a little French, and Italian, and Spanish."

"You ought to get quite a good position, then."

"I intend to try."

"But they say it's almost impossible to find work anywhere now, without influence," she went
on. "Have you got influence?"

"None whatever, madam."

Her face brightened. She'd have been bitterly disappointed if he had answered differently!
"Well, we'll see what I can do for you on land, since you won't accept anybody's assistance
on water," chirped the benefactress. "With your knowledge of languages, you might help me in
my Propaganda." (The way she spoke that word spelt it with a capital.)

The Stormy Petrel flushed up again, whether with annoyance or embarrassment or a mad desire
to laugh, I couldn't decide. He murmured that she was very kind, but that he wouldn't trouble
her. She must have many people to look after, and he would be all right in one way or another.
He wasn't afraid.

"No, indeed, I'm sure you're never afraid of anything!" protested Mrs. Shuster, breathless
with enthusiasm. But at this moment the officer who was our guide felt that the limit had been
reached, even for a millionairess. He hinted that there was more to see of third-class life,
and moved us on when our leading lady had offered a royal handshake to the steerage hero. She
would no doubt have pinned a V. C. on his breast if she had had one handy, but was obliged
to content herself with screaming out reassurances as we were torn away: "I won't forget you.
I shall see you again, and suggest something definite."

Of course we didn't want to see more third-class life but we had to pretend to. We saw where
the poor dears (Mrs. Shuster called them poor dears) slept and bathed (if at all) and ate.
After a boring ten or fifteen minutes we were returning by the way we had come, when a sheet
of paper blew along the deck. It made straight for me as if asking to be saved, and I saved
it; otherwise it would have fluttered into the sea.

Somebody had just begun writing on the paper with one of those blue indelible pencils such
as soldiers use in the trenches. There were two or three lines along the top of the page, and
they jumped right at my eyes, though of course I didn't mean to read them--"in case you don't
get the wireless. You must see him and make him understand that this can't go on. Men rose
from the dead in old days. What has been done before can be done again. Warn him that----"

There the sentence broke off.

I was thrilled. It was as if a door suddenly flew open in front of a dull house in a slummy
street, to show for an instant a scene of splendour, and then slammed shut on your prying nose.

Of course I knew the paper was Storm's, and the handwriting his (a strong, educated hand) because
there simply wasn't anybody else in that crowd capable of it. But, as I told you, several of
the steerage passengers were taking advantage of the smooth weather to write letters; and,
as it happened, our Mystery was no longer engaged in writing. He'd stuffed his pad and pencil
into a pocket of his awful coat when the good ship Shuster first bore down on him under full
sail. Now, on our return, he was standing at some distance pointing out porpoises to passengers
and rather conspicuously not seeing us. I couldn't yell, "Mr. Storm, you've lost part of a
letter you were writing!" But I thought it was the sort of letter he wouldn't want knocking
about, so I said in a loud voice to our attendant officer, "Oh, somebody has dropped a sheet
of paper with writing on it!"

I expected Storm to start dramatically, feel in his pocket, and perhaps claim his property
with a keen glance at my face to see whether I had read anything. I intended of course to put
on what Jack calls my "rag doll expression," one which I find most useful in social intercourse.
But the man didn't start. He could not have helped hearing my siren hoot, but he never turned
a hair or anything else. He went on pointing out perfectly irrelevant porpoises. I had to admire
his nerve! For instantly I seemed to read the inner workings of his mind, and understood that
he'd deliberately decided not to claim the paper. He guessed that I'd read the exciting words,
and his mental message to me was: "Do what you like, my dear madam, and be d----."

I called out again for whom it might concern, "Somebody's lost part of a letter!" but no one
took any interest in the announcement, so I added, with an eye on the back of the Mystery's
neck, "Well, I suppose there's no use keeping it." I crumpled the paper into a ball, and tossed
it over the rail where it couldn't be missed by the eye of Mr. Storm.

"He'll be glad to know I'm not showing it about, or brooding over it like a bit of a jigsaw
puzzle," I thought. But the eye I wished to catch remained glued to the porpoises, and only
they could tell whether it darkened with dread or twinkled with suppressed laughter. Even Mrs.
Shuster hadn't the "cheek" to try and attract the man's attention, and we returned to our own
class thanking our conductor for "all the interesting things he had shown us." I wondered if
he knew that while we spoke in plural we thought in singular!

"The dreadful old lady will never let go of that poor fellow till she's ruined all the romance,
and made him a respectable paid propaganda or something!" sighed Patsey Moore when we were
tucked into our deck chairs once more.

I laughed, but saw that she was quite serious, almost tragic. One of her charms is her funny
English. She's lived in France and talked French so long that she has to translate herself
into English, so to speak; and sometimes she has the quaintest conception of how to do it.
Also she rolls her "rs"; and if the Mystery had heard himself alluded to by her as a "pr-r-opoganda"
he would never have forgotten it. As for Mrs. Shuster--she mightn't have minded the Maxim gun
of that long-drawn "d-r-r-readful!" but her very vitals would have melted over the "old lady."
Despite her largeness and oddness of appearance generally, she considers herself a young widow,
with a personal fascination beyond that of her banking account. I, with the mellow leniency
of--let me see?--twenty-six, find this pathetic. But Patsey on the sunny slope of nineteen
can't even envisage my viewpoint. For her, a woman over thirty is middle-aged. When she's forty
she is old, and there's an end of it. How much the poor baby has to learn! I hope she won't
do it in being outrivalled with her best young man some day, by a dazzling siren of forty-five
who knows all the tricks of the trade and looks younger than any respectable woman ought to
look at half that age!

March 19th.

I was interrupted there, and I seem to have done nothing else but be interrupted ever since,
either by big bumpy Mrs. Shuster, or some one, or else by big bumpy waves which make me want
not to write letters. At this moment Patsey is calling "Oh, do come and look at the Statue
of Liberty! I thought I remembered her twice that size and twice as handsome!"

Dearest Mercédes, I must go at once and browbeat Jack (who's never seen the lady you know)
into admiring her at pain of losing my love.

                      Ever your affectionate

                                                              MOLLY.

II

THE HONBLE MRS. WINSTON TO HER FRIEND THE COUNTESS OF LANE

                                     Awepesha, Long Island,
                                                      March 21st.

You dear, to send us such a nice expensive cablegram! We found it waiting when we arrived.
Of course the name of the place limped out of England hopelessly mutilated. But how could a
British telegraph operator be expected to spell Awepesha? The name is more American than the
United States, being Indian; and meaning "it calms." Belonging to Long Island, it is Algonquian
of course. Don't you think that rather a nice name for a place on a shady shore by quiet waters,
where fierce winds never blow, and soft mists often make you look at the world as through an
opal? It's an appropriate name, too, because poor Cousin John Randolph Payton, who died and
left Awepesha to me, built it after separating from a Xantippe wife who made his life a Nell.

Everything is sweet; and the large white house has the calmest face you ever saw: wide-apart
eyes, and a high, broad forehead, under drooping green hair--elm hair. Jack loves it. He says
I mustn't dream of selling, as he rather thought it would be wise to do, before he saw my legacy.
Now his feeling is that even if we don't spend more than two months out of twenty-four at the
place, we simply must keep it for ours. You know we were married abroad, and this is Jack's
first sight of anything Colonial. When I used to talk about a house being "Colonial," it left
him cold. He had an idea that to the trained eye of a true Englishman "Colonial" would mean
debased Georgian. But now he admits--he's a darling about admitting things, which I hear is
a rare virtue in husbands!--that there's a delicious uniqueness about an American Colonial
house not to be found anywhere or in anything else the world over. It is, he thinks, as if
America had spiritualized the Georgian era and expressed it in terms of airy lightness unknown
to the solid Georges themselves. Of course, our home isn't quite the real thing, but a copy.
It's forty years old, whereas Kidd's Pines--but oh, my dear, that reminds me! You'd never believe
what has happened to that poor child, Patricia Moore, whom I "starred" in my ship's letter
to you. When I wrote, she seemed on the topmost crest of the wave. "Poor" was the last adjective
I should have selected to describe her position in life.

Compared with her, nothing has happened to Jack and me. All we've done since I posted that
letter on the dock (waiting for the kindest pet of a custom-house man) can be expressed in
three words, veni, vidi, vici. We came, we saw, we conquered--or anyhow took possession. It's
much the same thing. But Patsey! Her world has turned upside down, and Jack and I are trying
with all our wills and wits to turn it right side up again. The Mystery Man is entangled in
the scheme, too, in a weird way. But I must begin at the beginning, or I shall get tangled myself.

Pat put on a smart Paris frock to land in, and meet "Larry": also hat. She looked a dream,
and felt one. Every woman did her best in the clothes line (I don't mean a pun), but Mrs. Shuster
transcended us all. You can't think what she was like in one of the new-fashioned dresses,
and a close-winged hat with a long stick-out thing behind exactly the shape and size of a setting
hen. You may imagine a description of Mrs. Shuster irrelevant to Patsey Moore's fate and the
entangling of the Mystery Man: but you'll see in a few minutes that this is not so. Our dear
millionairess had been "making up" to Pat as well as to Jack and me a good deal, for several
days before landing; and you know how Jack and I just can't be rude to fellow human beings
and take steps to shed them, no matter how we are bored. I inherited this lack of shaden freude
from dear father, and Jack has inherited it from me. At least, he says he didn't mind how much
he hurt pushing people until I softened his heart beyond repair, and turned it into a sort
of cushion for any creature needing sanctuary.

When we saw the Dove of Peace (her nickname on board) preening herself in clothes which would
have made the Queen of Sheba "look like thirty cents," I was weak enough to breathe the desired
words of admiration. "Gorgeous" was, I think, my adjective; and it was no fib.

The poor dear was pleased, and volunteered the information that she'd "dressed up to kill"
for a particular purpose.

"It's really for my protégé's sake," she explained. "I marconied my friend Mr. Caspian to meet
me. You know, the Caspian--Ed Caspian, who's come into the Stanislaws' fortune. I think I've
told you I know him very well?"

(She had indeed. If she'd told us once she'd told us a dozen times. I longed to say so. But
one doesn't say to Mrs. Shuster the things one longs to say. She would go to bed and die if
one did.)

"I've wired him to meet me at the boat, because I thought I'd interest him in brave Peter Storm,"
she went on. "That poor fellow's so quixotic he won't take favours from a woman. But he can't
refuse a helping hand from a man like Ed Caspian."

"Have you told Mr. Storm what you're going to do for him?" I ventured to inquire.

"Not yet," said Mrs. Shuster, slowly and conspicuously covering with gloves a pair of hands
more ringed than Saturn. "I thought I'd surprise him. You see, he's persuaded the authorities
that he's an American (though you know what I think!), so he's no emigrant, but a returning
citizen of the United States. That's what his passport makes him out to be. I've seen it. I
asked to. He'll be getting off the ship with the rest of us, and I shall just say, 'Mr. Storm,
I want you to have a little talk with Mr. Caspian, the great social philanthropist.'"

"I see!" I responded inadequately. "But I thought, judging from the newspapers, that Mr. Caspian
had--er--turned over a new leaf since he tumbled into all that money."

(You've read, I suppose, Mercédes mia, about the change in the White Hope of the socialists
when suddenly he found himself the tenth richest man in America? I'd never met him myself,
till the day of our landing: I've been on the other side of the water so much since Jack and
I were married and father died. But one has often heard of Ed Caspian, the "gentleman socialist,"
the shining light of settlement workers. And since this money came to him several friends have
written that it was sad--or funny, according to the point of view--to see how he'd altered.)

"It's only the gutter papers that print those horrid stories," Mrs. Shuster reproached me.
"Why, they say things against Me sometimes! They say all I do is for self-advertisement. Did
you ever hear such a wicked lie? But we Public Characters have to put up with a lot. It's our
martyrdom. I know Ed Caspian through and through. At one time--" (she blushed and bridled as
only a fat woman with two or three chins can bridle, and I understood what she wished me to
understand, though Ed Caspian can't be more than thirty-two, and she's perhaps forty-five)--"at
one time--oh, well, he was a poor young man with noble principles, and I'm always interested
in such. My poor husband left me free to do as I liked at his death, and I was able to help
several institutions Mr. Caspian was working for. I've been in Europe since he got his money;
but I have perfect faith in him. He's richer than I am now, by a long shot, but he used to
say he'd do anything to prove his gratitude. It's up to him to prove it to-day. I sent him
a long telegram from Sandy Hook, and, by the by, mentioned you and the Honble Captain Winston."

Jack is attacked with acute goosefleshitis whenever she calls him that, but I think it's pathetic,
she relishes the word "Honourable" so much, and makes it sound round and fat in her mouth like
a big chocolate cream. Of course, Jack and I are quite nobodies; but it did occur to me when
in the same breath she said, "Ed would do anything," etc., and "I mentioned you," that Mr.
Caspian might know about Jack's father; and that he might find it better worth while bothering
to meet Lord Brighthelmston's son than merely to prove his gratitude to a benefactress no longer
needed.

Well, anyhow, the not very good ship Evangeline steamed slowly to her wharf at an early hour
of the morning, and Patsey Moore and Mrs. Shuster were two of the most excited people on board.
Jack and I expected no one to meet us, because purposely we had let no one know. So we were
not desperately emotional for our own sakes. But we were for Pat's.

"In a minute we'll see Larry!" she kept exclaiming. And her cheeks were like roses and her
eyes like sapphires--literally, sapphires.

We all gazed at the welcoming, waving crowd; but as the mass individualized into faces, male
and female, there was nothing admirable enough for Larry. Pat gave up hope almost as willingly
as a lioness in the Zoo would give up her food at half-past feeding time. But at last she had
to bow to the inevitable. Larry had not materialized. She was in "M" and we were in "W," so
we couldn't do as much for her as we should have liked, and for a while had to leave her to
the tender mercies of her maid. It was a relief to my mind, therefore, when I saw Mrs. Shuster
introducing a man--Mr. Caspian I had no doubt--to the girl. Hurrying back to "S," she saw me
peering out from "W" and flew to me, breathless.

"He came, you see!" she panted. "Dear fellow! He's just the same. Not one bit spoilt. But oh,
what do you think he's told me--about Miss Moore's father?"

"Not dead?" I breathed.

"Worse!" She stopped to pant some more. I could have shaken her.

"Don't keep me in suspense," I begged. But the lady's eyes had lit upon her protégé. "There's
Peter Storm!" she exclaimed. "I've been watching for him. I was afraid he might get away without
seeing me."

He certainly was in the act of getting away, though I wasn't so sure about the rest. "Mr. Storm!"
she cried. "Mr. Storm!"

He was forced to turn. Mrs. Shuster beckoned. He came toward us, though not with the long strides
which had been leading him in another direction. He took off his cap, bowed gravely, and murmured
something about having a man to meet.

(Jack was absent on leave, searching for some one to look at our trunks.)

"Oh, Mr. Storm," said his guardian angel, "I wouldn't have missed you for anything. But I was
afraid you might have misunderstood my message. I've sent for a very important man, a great
friend of mine, to introduce you to--Mr. Ed Caspian. He won't be long now. But when I mentioned
Miss Moore, the young lady on the ship, and pointed her out to him, he told me the most dreadful
news about her father. The poor man is absolutely ruined and bankrupt and everything else that's
bad; and here's this dear child with trunkfuls of clothes and a motor car to pay duty on. Mr.
Caspian was so interested when he saw her (that shows he's as good-hearted as ever in spite
of the newspapers!), and he's ready to do anything to help, even to paying all the duties."

Half-forgotten gossip hopped into my mind like a toad. Somebody had shown me a paragraph in
a scandal-loving American paper about the "change of heart" Ed Caspian had undergone with his
change of purse. "Oh, he can't be allowed to do anything of that sort for Miss Moore," I said
quickly. "Her father must have heaps of friends who--and anyhow, we shall look after her. I
do hope Mr. Caspian isn't telling the poor child about her father's troubles?"

"Well, he offered to break the news to her gently," confessed Mrs. Shuster, looking guilty.
"I told him she was so worried about Mr. Moore not coming to the boat. I'm sure Mr. Caspian
wouldn't say a word to frighten her. He's as gentle as a fawn. I always found him so. And we'll
all do things to help dear little Miss Moore. We'll club together; I'd love to."

I hardly heard. Without a thought of answering I dashed off to the rescue of Pat. But I was
conscious, as I dashed, that the Ship's Mystery had given me a look. Not a word had he spoken
since Mrs. Shuster began on the subject of Patsey Moore (not that he'd had a chance), but the
look was one which nobody, no matter how preoccupied, could help being conscious of--it was
so brilliant and so strange.

On the way to Patsey I caught sight of Jack in the distance and diverged to him. "I'll get
hold of a man in a minute," he said, thinking I'd grown impatient.

"Never mind a man!" I snapped. "Never mind anything!"

"Not even your hats?" he laughed.

"Hang my hats! Oh, Jack, Pat's father's ruined, and that Caspian creature is telling her--unless
we can stop him. Do come!"

Jack came. But we were too late. The roses on Pat's cheeks were already snowed under when we
hurled ourselves at "M." They both turned as we came up, she and he together. I wasted only
one glance on Mr. Caspian--just enough to see that he was a small man perfectly turned out
by his tailor and fairly well by his Maker: all the upper part of a blond head and face rather
beautiful and idealistic, the lower part not so good, might even be a rude contradiction. Then
my eyes went to Pat's, which were more sapphire-like than ever, because they glittered behind
tears that she'd have died rather than let fall. By not winking she had induced the tear-vessels
to take back a few, and the process would go on satisfactorily, I was sure, if nothing untoward
intervened.

"Have you and Mr. Winston met Mr. Caspian?" she asked, as formally as at a school reception
for teaching young girls How to Succeed in Society. Her lips were white and moved stiffly,
as lips do when they are cold, though the day was mild as milk. "Mr. Caspian says he knows
Larry slightly, and--and--that he's in great trouble."

"I'm awfully sorry to be a bearer of ill tidings," Ed Caspian defended himself to Jack and
me, "but Miss Moore was worrying--when Mrs. Shuster introduced us--because her father hadn't
come to meet her, and I thought it would perhaps be best----"

Well, I won't bother you, Mercédes, dear, with all the "we saids" and "he saids." We--that
is, Jack and I--soon realized that Caspian knew what he knew about "Larry's" affairs by hearsay,
or from the newspapers. He was scarcely acquainted with Larry himself: had only met him at
houses of mutual friends. Laurence Moore had come a regular cropper, it seemed. Things had
been faring badly with him for some time "because he was no business man, and fellows were
always persuading him to go into rotten things." "But we'll see him through, Miss Moore, we'll
see him through," Mr. Caspian finished up. "Don't be unhappy. And I see in the papers that
the fine old house is yours and can't be sold. Your father made it over to you legally, years
ago. So that's all right, isn't it?"

"Have--have things been in the papers about us?" asked Pat. The tears had been put neatly back
where they belonged, without one dropping out, and she looked pitifully brave--ready for anything,
no matter what. She didn't know enough about the world to resent anything Caspian had said.
On the contrary, she was probably thinking he meant to be kind--showing himself a good friend
of Larry's and all that. Of course I realized from the first that the instant he saw Pat the
man simply snapped at her. If indeed he had the intention of helping Larry it had been born
in his mind within the last fifteen minutes, and whatever he might do would be for value received.
Not that it was quite fair to blame him for that. With another type of man I might have thought
it thrillingly romantic that he should fall in love at first sight and resolve to save the
girl's father. But with Ed Caspian it was different--somehow. You see, he used to pose as a
saint, a sort of third-rate St. George, with Society for the Dragon: he was all for the poor
and oppressed. I remember reading speeches of his, in rather prim language. He was supposed
to live like an anchorite. Now, here was St. George turned into his own Dragon. What an unnatural
transformation! He, who had said luxury was hurrying the civilized world to destruction, wore
a pearl in his scarf-pin worth thousands of dollars if it was worth a cent. He had all the
latest slang of a Bond Street Nut. (By the way, over here when one talks of a "nut" it doesn't
mean a swell, but a youth who is what they'd call "dotty" or "bunny on the 'umph" in a London
music hall.) And though his eyebrows still had that heavenly arch which must have made his
early reputation, the rest of him didn't look heavenly at all.

If I'd been a sensible matchmaker, I ought to have said to myself, perhaps, "Never mind, my
dear Molly, beggars mustn't be choosers. Pat is, it seems, a beggar maid. You shouldn't look
a gift Cophetua in the mouth. Here he is, to be had for the taking. Encourage her to take him."

But I just couldn't! I wanted her by and by to marry some one tall and handsome and altogether
splendid. In fact, a Man. And if a man were a Man, it didn't matter whether he were a Cophetua
or not. So I listened quite disgustedly as Mr. Ed Caspian answered Pat's piteous question about
the newspapers, and criticised his affected accent. I think he fancied it English.

"Oh, it happens to lots of the best men," he set out to console her, "to be in the papers that
way. There's nothing in it! I shouldn't have noticed, had it been some chap I'd never heard
of. And then, Kidd's Pines, don't you know! That's a famous place. There was a picture of it
in the Sunday Times, and something about its history. I've always wanted to see the house.
May I come down, Miss Moore? There might be ways I could help you--your father, I mean--if
I could look around and study the situation. For instance, it might pay me--actually pay me
(no question of obligations)--to lend money on the place enough to set Mr. Moore right with
his creditors and enough over to begin again."

"I don't understand," said Pat.

"Oh, you spider!" said I, in my mind, also perhaps with my eyes. I refrained from saying it
with my lips, however, because after all, you see, I was a new friend of Pat's and mustn't
stick my fingers into the mechanism of her fate without being sure I could improve its working.
Jack and I aren't millionaires, especially since the war broke out and all our pet investments
slumped. That convalescent home for soldiers we're financing at Folkestone eats up piles of
money, to say nothing of the Belgian refugees to whom we've given up Edencourt. There are fourteen
families, and not less than seven children in the smallest, the largest has sixteen--the average
is ten. Is your brain equal to the calculation? Mine isn't, but our purse has to be; for we've
guaranteed to clothe as well as feed the lot for the duration of the war, and I hear we're
keeping a shoe factory working double time. I felt that the most we could do in a financial
way for dear Pat would be to pay duty on her car and clothes, and see that, personally, she
lacked for nothing. Whatever Mr. Caspian's motives might be, I dared not choke him off on my
own responsibility, and Jack said not a word. So I swallowed that "spider," but just as I was
choking it down and Caspian was beginning to explain his noble, disinterested scheme, Mrs.
Shuster and the S. M. (for that in future please read Ship's Mystery) bore down upon the letter
"M."

For an instant I supposed that Pirate Shuster had captured Storm as a reluctant prize, but
his expression told me that this was not the case. He came willingly, had even the air of leading
the expedition; and his look of interested curiosity Caspian-ward was only equalled by mine
at him. Remembering vividly the strange, brilliant, and puzzling glance he had thrown to me
as I left him with Mrs. Shuster, I threw him one which I hoped was as brilliant and at the
same time more intelligible. What I put into it was: "You're a man, even if you are a mystery,
so do hurry up and interrupt this conversation, which has got beyond me."

Of course, I didn't dream that he could help by word or deed, but I thought if he just hurled
himself blindly into the breach it would be something. By the time Mr. Caspian could renew
his offer, Larry Moore might be at hand to look after his own interests and Pat's.

Mr. Peter Storm (perhaps I've mentioned this?) is tall and has therefore very long legs--soldier
legs--that is, they can take prodigious strides as if they had a redoubt or something to carry
in record time. Whether my glance had lassoed him, or whether he wanted to be introduced to
Mrs. Shuster's rich friend, I couldn't tell. Anyhow, he landed among us like an arrow shot
from an unseen bow, and "Jill came tumbling after." (By the way, "Jill" would be a lovely name
for Mrs. S. I believe her real one is Lily.)

Mr. Caspian had to stop talking and turn to the newcomers; but before he stopped his explanation
had got as far as "a perfectly businesslike arrangement: a mortgage on the place could be----"

I wondered if Peter Storm's ears were as quick of hearing as they were well shaped; and if
so whether he would guess what was up, and take enough impersonal interest in a pretty girl
far removed from his sphere to be sorry for her.

Mrs. Shuster's first words went far to answer that question. "Oh, my dear Captain and Mrs.
Winston, Mr. Storm suggests the most wonderful plan. I was telling him more about poor Miss
Moore's troubles--all I'd heard from Mr. Caspian--and it seems he knows about Kidd's Pines,
dear Miss Patty's beautiful place which is her own in spite of all misfortunes." She stopped
and giggled a little; then went on in a coy tone, with an arch glance at her tall protégé.
"I had to confess that I could never believe he was an American. But now I have to. He knows
too much about America not to have lived here. He says he used to keep a winter hotel in Florida,
and he knows all about the business. He thinks Miss Moore might make a fortune turning Kidd's
Pines into a hotel--the right kind of hotel. Isn't it a wonderful idea, to help her poor father?
Oh, I forgot! Mr. Caspian, Mr. Storm! I was telling you about him, Eddy."

The two men acknowledged the introduction, inapropos as it was. They were the most extraordinary
contrast to one another: the important Caspian in his pluperfect clothes, looking insignificant;
the unimportant Storm in his junk-shop get-up, looking extraordinarily significant. He, an
ex-hotel-keeper! It was a blow to mystery. Yet I didn't lose interest. Somehow I felt more.

"I shouldn't know how to keep a hotel, should I?" faltered Patsey, in her childlike voice.

"You'd have to get expert assistance," said the S. M.

"I asked Mr. Storm if he would be free to give advice, and--and perhaps do more," broke in
Mrs. Shuster. "I've persuaded him to reconsider his first decision. He's now promised to begin
over here as my secretary till he gets something better to do. And, dear Miss Patty, I'll be
just delighted to come as your first guest, to bring you luck, if you approve of the idea.
I haven't any home. I intended to live at the Waldorf and look around. But from what I hear,
nobody need ever look farther than Kidd's Pines, if things there are managed the right way."

"I don't think Miss Moore will need to turn her wonderful old historic place into an inn,"
said Ed Caspian acidly. "I, too, have a plan, haven't I, Miss Moore? And with all respect to
our friend Mrs. Shuster, it's just as practical and a good deal pleasanter than hers."

"Not mine, Eddy: Mr. Storm's," the lady hastened to disclaim responsibility at the first buffet.

"Ah, Mr. Storm's," amended Eddy, trying to look down on the S. M. (Have you ever seen a pet
fox terrier or a dachshund with a bone, try to look down on a wandering collie unprovided with
bone? Well!...)

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Caspian," I ventured, "but I don't see how your plan is quite as 'practical'
as the other. Interest has to be paid on a mortgage, and if it can't be paid, why it's foreclosed,
both in real life and Irish melodramas where the lovely heroine has the most agonizing alternatives
offered her. Suppose, anyhow, we just let Mr. Storm tell us--since he's an expert--what he
means by the 'right way' of turning Kidd's Pines into a hotel. Maybe he means something very
special."

"I do," replied the S. M. "I mean what is called an 'exclusive' hotel--especially exclusive
in its prices. If people think it difficult to get in, they'll all fight to do so." He looked
at Pat. "I hope you won't think I'm pushing," he said, "I remember Kidd's Pines when I was
a boy. I thought it was the most beautiful place I ever saw. I've seen a good many since then;
but I still think the same."

A little colour crept back to Pat's cheeks. "Why!" she exclaimed, evidently forgetting her
troubles for an instant, as Atlas might if some one lifted up the world to ease his shoulders.
"Why, do you know when I first met you, I had a feeling as if I'd seen you before somewhere--a
long time ago. Did we ever meet when I was a little girl? I seem to associate you with--with
my father, as if you'd been a friend of his?"

"No, I was never a friend of his," said the S. M., quietly. "He wouldn't know the name of Storm
from the name of Adam."

My brain worked wildly as he made this answer. I thought--perhaps I imagined it--that he looked
suddenly as stormy as his name. I remembered the sheet of paper that had fluttered to me, the
day we went to visit the third class--part of a letter which, rightly or wrongly, I had attributed
to Peter Storm. Could it be possible that he had known about Larry Moore's wild speculations
and other foolishnesses?--that he had some hold over Moore?--that he had wanted to send him
a warning which would now be too late?

There was nothing to put such wild ideas into my head, except the sudden, really very odd look
in the man's expressive dark eyes--a look I couldn't help associating with the talk about Laurence
Moore.

"But I'm a friend of the house," Mr. Storm was going on to explain. "There was a story I read
once--almost the first after I learned to read and could enjoy myself with a book. It was called
'Cade of Kidd's Pines': a great tale for boys."

"Oh, and for girls, too!" cried Pat. "An uncle of mine wrote that book. It was dedicated to----"

"I've read it!" chipped in Ed Caspian, not to be outdone by any Storm. "What fellow hasn't?
I've given it away for prizes to boys in mission schools. To my mind it would be a shame to
make a common hotel out of such a place as Kidd's Pines."

"I don't suggest making a common hotel," said the S. M. The two gazed at each other, the S.
M. with a resolutely impersonal look, Caspian with as rude a stare as his sainted eyebrows
would permit. "A good thing," thought I, "that you've reconsidered and taken Mrs. Shuster's
offer, for you'd never squeeze one out of Caspian even if you'd accept it--which you wouldn't!"

While I was thinking, Jack spoke. "Shall we hold a council of war?" he proposed. "You're all
interested in finding some way for Miss Moore and her father out of their troubles. We're interested,
too, but we must consult Mr. Moore himself before we can decide anything definite. For some
reason he hasn't been able to come to the ship: a business reason probably. My wife and I are
going to be neighbours of Miss Moore. We'll take her to Kidd's Pines, and if it's better for
her to stay with us for a while we shall only be too happy. Anyhow, we invite you to Awepesha
this afternoon; you, Mrs. Shuster----"

"And Mr. Storm, my new secretary?" she broke in coyly.

"Of course. We hope Mr. Storm will come and elaborate this interesting hotel scheme of his.
I shouldn't wonder if there were something in it."

"Do I share the invitation?" asked Caspian. "Don't forget that I have a scheme, too!"

"Delighted!" said Jack, making no allusion to the latter "scheme."

When he got me alone, under pretext of going back to "W" for the examination of our luggage,
we hastily counted up what money we had between us, in order to regulate Pat's affairs at the
custom house without delay and without mortification to her. Even before the blow fell, she
had given Jack the bills for the Paris purchases, so that he might help her calculate the sums
which must be paid. "Larry always writes that he has no head for figures," she had said, "so
if Captain Winston and I know what's to be done it will save time and gray matter. All poor
Larry will have to do is to hand over the right change."

She spoke lightly of "change," having been brought up to know little difference between pounds
and pence. Even now when the blow had fallen, and fallen hard, happiness was so much more natural
to her than unhappiness that she was already cheered by our suggestions. It seemed to her that
everything must soon "come right." I believe she was more anxious to comfort Larry and show
him what a tower of strength she could be to him than anything else. The first thought in many
girls' heads would have been: "Here's an end of my good times before they've begun!" but I'm
sure there was no place in Pat's mind for her own grievances. I fancied that she'd even forgotten
those dresses for the débutante who might now never "début," and the birthday car which might
appropriately be named the "White Elephant." Indeed I hoped she would forget, so that Jack
might pay the duty and escape protests or gratitude. But the girl had a more practical side
to her nature than I'd supposed. Just as Jack and I had finished our calculations by discovering
that we hadn't enough ready money to settle up with the customs for ourselves and Pat, the
Stormy Petrel "hovered in the offing."

"Miss Moore asked me to find you," he said, "and ask you not to pay duty for her things, as
she thinks they'd better be sold for what they'll fetch, so the Paris trades-people may be
paid without worrying her father."

"My gracious!" I exclaimed. "I never thought of that! She gave my husband the bills. I took
it for granted they'd been paid, at least!"

"It seems not," said the S. M. "I suppose the trades-folk considered Mr. Moore's name a good
one. The French have an almost pathetic faith in Americans." (I wondered how he knew that!)
"But," he went on more slowly, "I should have liked to suggest to Miss Moore, if I'd dared,
that she ought to stick to her car if she's going to keep a hotel. It might be useful."

"Of course she must stick to it," Jack agreed, "and to her poor little bits of finery. We'll
see to all that, and the Paris people shan't suffer. I'm afraid these custom-house chaps won't
be keen on taking my cheque, as they don't know me, but later will do, perhaps. They won't
make a fuss----"

"I can let you have a thousand dollars if it would be any good," said the surprising Storm,
taking from a breast pocket of his cheap ready-made coat an ancient leather wallet, which looked
as if it might have belonged to Cain or Abel.

"Oh, then all your money wasn't torpedoed!" I blurted out before I knew that I was thinking
aloud. Then I blushed furiously and wished that the most top-heavy skyscraper in New York would
fall on my head. But the S. M. only laughed. "It was not," he replied. "When a man hasn't much
he sticks to what he's got a good deal closer than a brother. My savings and I escaped together."

This made him seem to me even more mysterious than before, if possible. A man travelling steerage,
plastered with bank-notes! But, I reminded myself, he had a right to be Spartan if he liked:
there was no crime in that, and if he'd stolen the money he wouldn't be likely to mention its
existence, even for the sake of as pretty a girl as Patricia Moore.

I hardly expected Jack to accept the loan, but he promptly did, and when I saw how pleased,
almost grateful, Peter Storm looked, a flash of intuition made clear Jack's tactics. Just because
the S. M. was what he was, and wore what he wore, the dear boy treated him as man to man. I
do think men are nice, don't you?... All the same, for a minute I came near doing Mr. Storm
an injustice. I suspected him of wanting Pat to hear what he had done: but no, on the contrary.
He asked us both to promise that the matter shouldn't be mentioned to her.

"I've done nothing," he said. "I shall get my money back from you in a day or two." And he
handed over to Jack ten one-hundred-dollar bills which I suppose went down with him in the
Lusitania and the Arabic, and bobbed up again. I couldn't help seeing that when they came out
they left his wallet as empty as the whale after it had disgorged Jonah. I did hope he had
pennies in other pockets, or that his salary from Mrs. Shuster was going to begin in advance.

After my cousin died and left Awepesha to me, Jack and I decided to keep all the servants on,
anyhow until we'd made our visit to America. That being the case, we'd wired to the house the
day and probable time of our arrival in New York, and the chauffeur had come for us with a
respectable elderly automobile which (as the estate agents say) "went with the place." The
chauffeur was (is) elderly and respectable, too, evidently transferred by the fairy wand of
Circumstance from the box-seat of a carriage to the wheel of a car. We took poor forlorn little
Pat and pouting Angéle to Awepesha with us, instead of carrying them a mile farther on; and
then, without waiting for half a glance at his new domain, Jack nobly undertook a voyage of
discovery to Kidd's Pines.

What he found out there and the decision of the war council I must wait to tell you till my
next letter. I do want this to catch the first ship bound for England, home, and beauty, otherwise
you'll think me ungrateful for that ten-dollar telegram. And I'm not--I'm not!

We both send love to you and dear old Monty.

Ever your
                                                                 M.

III

THE HONBLE MRS. WINSTON TO THE COUNTESS OF LANE

                                            Awepesha, Long Island,
                                                         March 25th.

DEAREST MERCÉDES:

I don't know whether or not I ought to take it for granted that you and Monty are hanging breathlessly
on the fate of Patricia Moore; but I suppose I'm subconsciously judging you by Jack and myself.
We think, talk, dream, eat, drink, nothing except her business in one form or other!

I meant to write you (about the one absorbing subject, of course) a day or two after I closed
my last letter, which was a sort of "to be continued in my next" affair. But it was a case
of deeds, not words. Things had to be done and done quickly. It's all rather tragic and wildly
funny.

You should have seen Jack's face when he came back to Awepesha after motoring over to spy out
the nakedness of the land at Kidd's Pines. It takes a lot to flabbergast Jack, as I learned
when he was my "Lightning Conductor"; but he certainly did look flabbergasted this time. You
know the look as well as the "feel," don't you? It makes the eyes seem wider apart and dropped
down at the outer corners.

He glanced hastily about to see if I were alone. I was still in the library where he'd left
me, because I didn't want to go over the house till he could go, too: and luckily I'd found
enough piled-up letters and telegrams to keep me occupied.

"It's all right," I said. "Patsey's taking a walk in the garden. She's too restless to sit
still. Besides, I dare say she hoped to head you off. A wonder she didn't! But perhaps she's
gone down to the water to try and catch a distant glimpse of Kidd's Pines. What has become
of the adored Larry? Did you find him?"

"I did not," said Jack. "I didn't find anybody--at least at the house."

"You didn't expect to find anybody but Larry, did you?" I asked.

"I expected to find servants."

"Good heavens! aren't there any?" I gasped.

"No. Wait till I tell you what happened. There's a porter's lodge, of course, but the gate
was closed when we got there and nobody came to open it. Fortunately it was only shut, not
locked. We drove in. It's a ripping place, my child. This can't be compared with it. Yet there's
an air of neglect over everything. That didn't surprise me much. But when I rang the bell a
dozen times without getting an answer it began to seem like a bad dream. I got tired of admiring
the doorway, though it's a beauty, and you'll be mad about it; so I decided to investigate
elsewhere. I tried my luck at two side entrances and then at the back. Not a sound. Not even
the mew of a cat. Palace of the Sleeping Beauty! Not to be discouraged, I wandered along till
I found the stables--fine big ones, and a huge garage. Locked up and silent as the grave. Farther
on I discovered a gardener's house: door fastened, blinds down. I went back and told our chauffeur:
Jekyll, his name is. He knew no more about Mr. Moore's affairs than we--only what he'd read
in the papers; but he proposed running on to the village, and making an errand at the post-office:
thought they'd be sure to be up in everything there. He bought stamps, and asked questions
while he waited for change. It seems that Moore hasn't been at Kidd's Pines for a week, and
yesterday there was a servants' strike. They stampeded in a body; hadn't been paid for months,
but hung on hoping for the best till after the bankruptcy. Then as Moore lay low they decided
the game was up."

"What a homecoming for Patsey!" I moaned. "How are we to tell her?"

"You won't have to, dear," she said. Which paid us out for talking at the tops of our voices
in front of a long French window which I had opened. She was standing in it.

My bones turned to water, and Jack looked as if he'd been shot for treason. But there it was.
She knew! And she behaved like a heroine. She wasn't even pale, as she had been when Ed Caspian
broke things gently to her.

"Please don't mind," she went on, turning from me to Jack. "I didn't mean to eavesdrop at first,
but when I heard what you were talking about I thought it would be no harm to listen. It would
save your telling me afterward. I don't feel one bit worse than I did. Rats leave sinking ships,
don't they? I always thought it stupid of them, because they might have to swim miles with
waves mountains high. I shan't desert the ship! You've both been angels to me, but now I know
that Larry isn't at Kidd's Pines just oversleeping himself. I want to go there at once to wait
for him. Think, if he came home sad and tired after all his troubles, to find the house shut
up like you found it, Captain Winston! Would you be so very kind as to let your chauffeur drive
me home at once?"

"We can all three go over directly after luncheon," I suggested.

Can you picture to yourself, Mercédes, an American beauty rose suddenly transforming itself
into an obstinate mule? You'd say it couldn't be done. But it can. I realized on the instant
that unless I sent for wild horses to tear her to pieces, Patsey would start for Kidd's Pines
within the next ten minutes, chauffeur or no chauffeur. To ask her mildly how she expected
to get in would have been a waste of breath. The frail young creature was quite capable of
breaking the beautiful door down with a mallet if no easier way offered!

My eyes and Jack's met. Without a word he rang, and sent word to Jekyll that he must be ready
to start out again immediately. Doubtless poor Cousin John's well-regulated clockwork servants
thought we'd lost our heads, for luncheon had already been put back for Jack's return, and
now here we were proposing to go off without it! Yet no, not exactly without it. What could
be taken with us we took in a basket: for man must eat and woman must at least nibble.

While I'd been giving hasty but apologetic orders, Pat had darted away in search of Angéle,
who might, she imagined, be useful in a servantless house. I don't know how much Angéle had
heard or understood, but when she appeared with fire in her eye and crumbs on her lip, I thought
she looked dangerous.

We didn't say much on the way to Kidd's Pines; but inside the gates, though my heart was oppressed,
I broke into admiring exclamations. My dear, there's nothing lovelier in Italy or in England!
I group those two countries together in my comparison because Kidd's Pines has salient features
which suggest both. The general effect of the lawns and gardens round the exquisite old house
is English, or would be, if they were better kept. The tall drooping elm trees and occasional
willows are vaguely English, too: but the grove of umbrella pine trees crowding darkly together
on a promontory like a band of conspirators might be etched against the sky at some seaside
château of Posilippo. I'm beginning to find out that this combined English-ness and Italian-ness
is characteristic of Long Island, where I am even a greater stranger than Patricia Moore. And
yet the most winning charm, the charm which seems to link all other charms together, is the
American-ness of everything--oh, an utterly different American-ness from what most people mean
when they say "how American that is!" I do wish I could explain clearly; but to explain a thing
so delicate, so illusive, would be like taking a soap-bubble in your hand to demonstrate that
it was round. It's an effect of imagination and climate: imagination which gave graceful lightness
and simplicity to Georgian models; climate which has played Puck-tricks with elms and other
stately trees of England, turning them into fairy trees while leaving the family resemblance.
Why, there's something different even about the paint on those dear old frame houses in the
country over here! In no other part of the world, not even in Italy, where colour is so important,
could there be a yellow like the yellow paint on the ancient shingled house-front at Kidd's
Pines. I suppose the white window-facings and doorway and pillars, and the green blinds, and
the frame of cathedral elms, partly account for the indescribable sweetness of that yellow.
I can't liken it to anything but primroses in a forest, seen in the level, secret light of sunrise.

My ecstasies cheered Patsey a little, and I emitted some of them in French, for the benefit
of Angéle, who looked about as appreciative as a Mexican horned toad.

We got into the house easily enough, by sacrificing a window-pane in the kitchen and then undoing
the catch. A sweet kitchen it was, or ought to have been if the servants hadn't avenged their
wrongs by leaving a lot of dishes and dish towels unwashed. We wandered about, Patsey pretending
to remember this or that, and really half paralyzed with fright lest she should find that Larry
had committed suicide in one of the beautiful shut-up rooms. No such horror awaited us, however,
and greatly relieved in our inmost minds, we came to rest in the dining-room, where Angéle
was unpacking our luncheon with her hands and poisoning it with her glances.

There were chicken salad and heavenly rolls, pickles which made me feel a child again (a thoroughly
American child), chocolate layer-cake, and various other things that thrilled me with pride
of the United States. While Jack and I (starved) were trying not to eat too much for sympathetic
friendship, and Pat was trying to eat enough to please us, we heard a door slam in the distance.
We started like burglars caught at a stolen feast. It couldn't be Angéle, because she was darkening
the room with her presence. It couldn't be--but it was!

"Larry!" cried Pat, springing up, and making a dash for the door which she happened to face.
We others turned to face it also, and saw coming in a delightful boy as happy as Pan--much
happier than Pan would be in modern clothes.

"She must be mistaken," I thought. "This can't be a grown girl's father. It can't be a father
of anything! Impossible it should be a ruined bankrupt. It must be some younger brother of
Larry's who looks like him."

But no! "Hello, girlie!" the tall lad exclaimed, and held out his arms. Patsey rushed into
them, and was clasped. She buried her head on the boy's shoulder, and he looked at us over
the top of her head, smiling. I assure you I never saw a more engaging smile, not even Pat's
own--or Peter Storm's. Theirs are quite different. Pat's is childlike and winningly ignorant
of life; the Stormy Petrel's is full of unexpected gleams of humour, which lighten those mysterious
eyes of an Italian prince. This youth's smile at us over his weeping daughter's hat was pagan--the
joyous, carefree smile of Pan.

He patted the girl's back. "Awfully sorry I couldn't meet you," he said, in a gay and charming
voice, which contradicted a statement that he could be sorry about anything: the sort of voice
which you know means a light singing tenor. "I've been busy," he went on, explaining himself
to us as much as to Pat, "busy winning back the family fortunes."

Pat drew herself from him to look him in the face, and beam through a few tears. "You darling!"
she gasped. "I might have known it! You have won them back?"

"I've made a start," he modestly replied. "I'll tell you all about it. Jove! You've grown up
a dashed pretty girl. We shan't make a bad-looking pair trotting around together--what? But
introduce me to your friends."

Patsey did so. When the young god Pan had met us halfway and was warmly shaking hands, one
saw that he wasn't quite such an ambrosial youth as he had seemed at a distance. Instead of
looking twenty, he appeared at the outside twenty-eight, wavy bronze-brown hair; big, wide-open
eyes of yellow-brown like cigarette tobacco; low, straight brows and lashes of the same light
shade; a clever, impudent nose and a wide, laughing mouth; a pointed, prominent chin with a
cleft in it. Now, can you imagine this as the description of a nineteen-year-old girl's recreant
parent, a ruined bankrupt returning to a house deserted by his unpaid servants?

After his failure to meet Pat, leaving her to arrive alone and friendless (so far as he could
know), with huge duties to pay and nothing to pay them with, I'd been prepared to loathe Larry.
But to loathe Pan would be a physical impossibility for any one who loves the brightness of
Nature. I fell a victim to the creature's charm at first glance, and I think even Jack more
or less melted at the second or third.

Larry had come in hat in hand, and had burst upon us as such a surprise that we didn't notice
his costume till after we'd calmed down. When Pat had pranced round him a little in a kind
of votive dance, his eyes fell upon our luncheon, and he said in French that he had the hunger
of seventy-seven wolves. He then approached the table to examine the food with interest, and
put down his hat. It dawned upon me only at this instant that the hat was a shiny "topper";
and as he unbuttoned a smart black overcoat and threw back a white silk muffler, lo! he was
revealed in full evening dress. This at two-thirty in the afternoon!... "Curiouser and curiouser,"
as Alice remarked when she fell down the Rabbit Hole.

"I'm clothed like this," explained Larry, "because the house where I went last night to restore
our lost fortunes was raided by the police, and I escaped by the skin of my teeth. Most of
the other chaps were arrested, I saw in the papers this morning, but my usual luck was with
me. I happened to hide in a place where they happened not to look--or, rather, there was a
fellow who looked, but he was the right sort. A hundred-dollar-bill fixed up a get-away for
me, but not till a couple of hours ago. Eyes turned the other way till I'd passed the danger
zone. Then I taxied down here without waiting to eat, for I thought the poor girlie would be
sure to come home to roost. All's well that ends well! Am I or am I not the 'smart guy?' I
pulled a thousand dollars out of roulette last night at poor old Jimmie Follette's. Had only
seventy-five to start with. The wheel gave me all the rest. I backed zero and she kept repeating.
Raised my stakes whenever I won. See here, I've got the spoils on me--all but the hundred I
had to shed--and twenty-five for the taxi. Let's gloat."

Chuckling, he emptied his pockets of gold and greenbacks. He was in his own eyes and in Patty's
the hero of a great adventure. "What did I tell you about Larry?" she challenged us.

When he heard about the servants, he threw back his curly head and laughed. He'd been living
in town, it seemed, for more than a week. "There's such a lot of red tape they tie you up in
if you go bankrupt," he explained to Jack. "Never was so bored in my life! But I kept consoling
myself with the thought, 'I'm sure to bob up serenely in the end. I always have and I always
shall.' Now here's this money for instance. If I can make a thousand out of seventy-five, what
can't I make out of a thousand? I wish I'd gone seriously in for roulette before. I might have
known I'd win. We'll get some more servants and begin again, for this house is our castle.
'God's in His heaven, all's well with the world.'"

"But--but, Larry dear, we owe Captain Winston heaps of money for customs duty," Pat ventured,
wistfully reluctant to dash his high spirits, yet goaded by conscience. "Of course I can sell
the things, but meanwhile----"

"Sell nothing!" exclaimed Larry. "Now you've come home and can sign papers, we'll mortgage
the place, and then we'll be on velvet."

My heart sank, because I saw Pat in her last ditch, and presently turned out of it with nowhere
else to go unless she married for money. She was in such a state of rapture at recovering Larry
after all her fears, that I thought she would cheerfully consent to anything he advised, but
there must have been a sensible ancestor behind the girl somewhere. "Oh, I wish we needn't
mortgage Kidd's Pines!" she sighed. "It is such a dear place. I'd almost forgotten--but such
a rush of love has come over me for it to-day. I'd hate to risk losing it--and we might, you
know. There's another plan that some kind friends from the ship thought of this morning, when--when
we heard the news--about our trouble. They're coming to Awepesha to talk it over, at four o'clock
this afternoon."

She turned an imploring glance on Jack, who thereupon felt forced to help her out with explanations.
He stumbled a little, for fear of hurting Mr. Moore's pride; but he needn't have worried. Larry
regarded the idea as the joke of the century.

"Great Scott, what a lark!" he shouted. "I can see the advertisements! 'Hiding place of Captain
Kidd's Treasure in the Grounds.' What do you know about that? Jove, we'll have digging parties,
with me for the leader!"

"You must make them pay for the privilege of digging," I suggested.

"Yes! We'll call it the 'Only Extra.' I like the idea of that man--Storm, did you say his name
is?--of charging some high, almost prohibitive price which limits the scope of operation to
millionaires, then letting them have everything they want, as if they were guests: champagne
or water, the same charge. We ought to get some fun out of this--what?"

I thanked Billiken, the God of Things as They Ought to Be, that he took it that way, for, if
only Larry didn't insist on managing the business himself, I saw hope of Pat's being saved.

Our chauffeur, looking more like Hyde than Jekyll after his long wait, took us all back to
Awepesha in the car, after Larry had changed his telltale clothes to tweeds, and the ruined
bankrupt was the life of the party. His remarks about the expression of Angéle's back (she
sat in front) and his friend the Marquise's taste in female beauty were most witty and amusing,
if not in the best of taste.

I forgot to tell you that Ed Caspian brought his car down to the docks to take Mrs. Shuster
wherever she wanted to go--a resplendent car of the most expensive make in the world, such
a car as he would have called "Moloch" in the days when his hand was against Capital. Before
we'd been back very long at Awepesha it arrived, bearing the lady and her host, but not Mr.
Storm. He had preferred to travel independently, it seemed, and I rather liked him for it.
No sooner were the introductions and first politenesses over between the newcomers and Larry,
however, than Storm appeared. I had rather expected that he would "doll himself up"--as they
say in this dear land of ours--for the visit in high society; but he had made no change, not
even a tall collar.

Mrs. Shuster, enraptured with Larry and in an ecstasy between these three men she could think
of as "in her train," presented "Mr. Peter Storm to Mr. Moore." "A hero of the Lusitania and
Arabic," she added, "and going to be my secretary."

Larry held out his hand, and, as he shook the Stormy Petrel's, stared at him. "I seem to know
your face," he said. "And yet--I can't place it. Do you know mine?"

"I think if I'd ever seen it I shouldn't have forgotten," returned our Ship's Mystery. I noticed
that he did not say he hadn't seen it or that he had forgotten. And I vividly recalled how
Pat, too, had had the impression that Storm's eyes were familiar--associated with some memory
of long ago. Neither she nor her father, however, appeared to find any double meaning in his reply.

Well, to make a long story less long, Mrs. Shuster and Mr. Caspian had put their heads together
over the hotel idea. Both had taken advantage of Peter Storm's brief absence to forget that
it had originated in his brain. They spoke of "our plan," and for the moment he claimed no
credit, as I should have been tempted to do. It was only when they began to develop the said
plan upon lines evidently different from those agreed upon with him that he roused himself.

"In thinking it over," Ed Caspian explained to Larry, "Mrs. Shuster and I have decided that
the simplest thing would be for me to advance any capital necessary to start the hotel enterprise:
advertising and a lot of things like that. All in a business way of course. Miss Moore can
give me a mortgage----"

"I beg your pardon," the S. M. cut him off in a voice quite low but keen as a knife. "The hotel
suggestion was mine, wasn't it, Miss Moore?"

"Yes," Pat assented, "it certainly was." She looked from one man to the other, puzzled and
interested.

"I shouldn't have made the suggestion if I weren't more or less of an expert in such matters."
Storm said this with almost aggressive self-confidence. One had to believe that he knew what
he was talking about; that his apparently mysterious past included the management of hotels,
and this instinctive if reluctant credence was a tribute to the man's magnetic power. He did
look the last person on earth to be a hotel-keeper! Believing that he might have been one ought
to have destroyed the romance attached to him, but somehow it made the flame of curiosity burn
brighter.

"Don't you all think," he went on, "that the suggestor ought to have a voice in the working
out of the scheme--that is, if he has anything to say worth hearing?"

"Seems to me this is a case for acts, not arguments," remarked Caspian. "It isn't good advice
but money that's needed at this stage."

"Exactly," said Storm. "The question is, how is it to be obtained? I think it would be more
advantageous to Mr. Moore and his daughter for a small syndicate to be formed than for them
to get the capital on a mortgage. They are amateurs. They don't know how to run a hotel. They
might make a failure, and the mortgage could be called in----"

"I wouldn't do such a thing!" Caspian angrily cut him short. "That's why I came forward--so
they could have a friend rather than a business man----"

"It turns out awkwardly sometimes, doing business with friends," said Storm, giving the other
a level look straight from eye to eye. So may a cat look at a king. So may a steerage passenger
look at a millionaire if he isn't afraid. And apparently this one wasn't afraid, having only
other people's axes to grind, not his own. "Forming a company or syndicate, Mr. and Miss Moore
would have shares in the business, given them for what they could put into it: their historic
place and beautiful house. Mrs. Shuster would take up a large group of shares, and would, I
understand, become one of the first guests of the hotel, to show her confidence in the scheme.
Isn't that the case, Mrs. Shuster?"

"Oh, yes!" she agreed. All the man's magnetic influence--temporarily dimmed by her old friend
Ed in the motor car--seemed to rush over her again in a warm wave.

"Mr. Caspian is of course free to join the syndicate," continued the S. M. "But he, too, is
an amateur. He may know how to live well in hotels, he doesn't know how to run them well."

"I'm not a hotel-keeper, thank heaven, if that's what you mean!" said Caspian. "But I happen
to have money."

"Yes, you happen to have money," thoughtfully repeated Storm.

"Which--I suppose we may take for granted--you haven't."

"You may take that for granted, Mr. Caspian."

It was now quite evidently a duel between the two men, strangers to each other and as far apart
as one pole from another, yet for some reason (perhaps unknown, only felt, by themselves) instinctively
antagonistic. Jack and I were lost in joy of the encounter, and a glance at Pat showed me that,
schoolgirl as she is, she caught the electric thrill in the atmosphere. Larry, too, was visibly
interested. He'd opened a box of games on the table where rested his elbow, and taking out
some packs of cards he had mechanically begun to play "Patience"--a characteristic protest
of the spirit against dull discussions of business, even his own. He would like things to be
nicely arranged for him, I suspected, but he couldn't be bothered with petty details. He seemed
just to take it happily for granted that people ought to be glad to straighten matters out
for a charming "play-boy" like him. The tone of the two men, however, had suddenly snatched
his attention from the intricacies of Patience (a fascinating new Patience, I noticed). He
was captured, but not, I felt, because of any personal concern he had in the battle. I did
wonder what was passing behind the bright hazel eyes which moved from Storm's face to Caspian's,
and back again.

"Well, then, if I'm to take it for granted that you've no money, where do you come in?" the
late socialist was sharply demanding while my thoughts wandered.

"I don't come in," said Storm. "I act as Mrs. Shuster's secretary, and her spokesman. It seems
she has no business manager, so my duties may carry me occasionally in that direction, I begin
to see. If she's to have interests in this affair, I must protect them according to my judgment.
My judgment tells me that they could best be protected by having an expert for a large shareholder--perhaps
the largest. Such a man would have every incentive to work for the scheme's success. And I
know the right man."

"You do?" Contemptuous incredulity rang in Caspian's emphasis. "Name him!" This was a challenge.

"Marcel Moncourt."

Ed Caspian laughed a short, hard laugh.

"Marcel Moncourt! Why, that man wouldn't give up his ease to manage a gilt-edged boarding-house
in the country--no, not to please an emperor!"

"Maybe not," said Storm coolly. "There aren't many emperors just now a Frenchman wants to please."

"You think he'd give the preference to you!"

"Not to me. But to Mr. and Miss Moore. And"--the man glanced at his employer--"Mrs. Shuster."
She flushed at the immense, the inconceivable compliment, for Marcel Moncourt, I suppose (don't
you?), is as grand a chef as there is in the world, almost a classic figure of his kind, and
a gentleman by birth, they say. Even Mrs. Shuster, who doesn't know much outside her own immediate
circle of interests, had managed to catch some vague echo of the great Moncourt's fame. As
for Larry, he became suddenly alert as a schoolboy who learns that the best "tuck box" ever
packed is destined for him.

"Good lord!" he exclaimed. "You don't mean you can get the one and only Marcel to take charge
at Kidd's Pines?"

"I know--or used to know--a person who can certainly persuade him to do so, and on very short
notice," said the S. M.

"That settles it, then!" cried Larry. "Can you guess what I was doing? 'Ruling passion strong
in death'--and that sort of thing! I was betting with myself which of you two would come out
ahead in the argument and gain his point over the other. I thought--I must say--the odds were
with Mr. Caspian, for gold weighs down the scales. But Marcel is worth his weight in gold.
Put him in the balance, and the argument's ended. I didn't mean to take a hand in the game!
I felt so confident it would work out all right either way. But with Marcel and Mr. Storm on
one side, and Mr. Caspian with a gold-mine on the other, we choose Marcel--don't we, girlie?"

"Who is Marcel?" inquired girlie, thus appealed to.

Larry laughed. "She's just out of a convent," he apologized for his child's abysmal ignorance.
"Marcel Moncourt, my dear," he enlightened her, "was the making of a millionaire, who would
never have been anybody without him. Once upon a time there was an old man named Stanislaws,
not particularly interesting nor intelligent except as a money grubber--oh, I beg your pardon,
Mr. Caspian, I forgot he was related to you!--but he was lucky, and the best bit of luck he
ever had was getting hold of this Marcel as chef and general manager of his establishment.
No one had bothered about Mr. Stanislaws before, rich as he was, but with Marcel at the helm,
he could have any one he liked as his guest, from a foreign prince or an American President
to a Pierpont Morgan. Of course they all tried to get Marcel away; but he was like iron to
the magnet--none of us could ever understand why. It looked almost like a mystery! When there
were no more Stanislaws on earth, then, and not till then, Marcel considered himself free.
He had the world to choose from; and he chose to rest. He is now a gentleman of leisure. Any
one starting a hotel who could secure Marcel would be made--made! But I should have said no
hope, short of a Fifth Avenue palace, if that. No more hope for us than of getting the Angel
Gabriel to stand blowing his trumpet in front of the door."

"There is no hope. I'd stake my life on that," said Caspian emphatically. "When I came into
my cousin's money, after the poor old man's murder and all the other tragedies, I offered Marcel
a salary of fifteen thousand dollars a year to come to me. By Jove, I'd have built a house
to fit him. But he wouldn't listen. Tired of work was his only excuse."

"Tired of making millionaires popular, perhaps," murmured Mr. Storm to a picture of Cousin
John Randolph Payton on the wall.

Caspian's heavenly blue eyes snapped with another kind of blue fire. "I should say that no
power except that of blackmail could induce Marcel Moncourt to take any interest, active or
financial, in our scheme down here. Perhaps that is your secret?"

If I hadn't seen the steerage passenger smile when Mrs. Shuster accused him of being a gentleman
and offered him cast-off clothes, I should have expected violence. He smiled much in the same
way now, to Pat's relief and Larry's disappointment. "Perhaps it is," he said. "I've always
thought it must be exciting to be a blackmailer. Anyhow, it is my secret. If I can get--or,
rather, if my friend can get--Marcel to put money and gray matter into Kidd's Pines as a hotel,
Mr. Moore--Miss Moore, will you have him--and the Syndicate?"

"We would have him and the devil!" cried Larry.

Ed Caspian looked as if he suspected that having Marcel and Peter Storm might turn out much
the same thing. But he was the only "No," and the "Ayes" had it.

Afterward Mrs. Shuster told me that Ed Caspian vowed to find out all about our Ship's Mystery
if it took his last penny. So we may "see some fun," as Larry says.

But perhaps you've had enough of our scheme and schemers for the moment, Mercédes mia!

Ever your loving                                         MOLLY.

P. S. I suppose he can't be a blackmailer? He might be anything!

IV

PATRICIA MOORE TO ADRIENNE DE MONCOURT, HER BEST FRIEND IN THE CONVENT SCHOOL AT NEUILLY

                                       Kidd's Pines, Long Island,
                                                            April 3d.

MA CHÉRIE:

J'ai beaucoup de choses à dire--oh no, I forgot--you asked me to write in English, because
it would help your spelling. That was a large compliment, mon petit choux, but do look up the
most difficult words in the dictionary. It would be more safe. I am trying to think in English,
but I find I think faster in French still; and I need to think extremely fast now, as fast
as heat lightning. Aussi I dream in French, about American people, which mixes me up; and one
laughs when I don't get my sentences right. You must not take me for a model, though I will
do all my possible, and improve as the time passes on.

As I promised, I begin a letter to you on the ship, but I cannot finish, for too many things
happening and the times--I mean the weather--being so bad. Perhaps it is better I did not,
for everything is different now from what we thought. Darling Larry has lost all his money,
and we are in the soup. But it is a superb soup, because we have a chef the most famous of
the world. I have almost fear to tell you his name! It is the same as yours, only that naturally
he has not the "de," though he has the grand air and is richer than we when we were rich. It
will look strange to you, this, that we should have an employé so wonderful when we are in
ruins. But he is not an employé like others. We are as his servants. And we have him because
he helps us make our house a hotel for the high world. He is not alone in helping us, my father
and me. There is, besides, a band who helps. Not a band that plays music, you comprehend, but
a ring--a circle of people. I have made their acquaintance on the ship, all but one who came
on the quai when we arrived, and broke the truth of Larry. I did not cry, though I saw all
my happy days we have talked of so much, you and me, fly away in smoke. I thought not of them,
but of Larry, which was worse, for I had a cold fear in my heart like the lumps of raspberry
ice we sometimes swallowed too large and fast on the fête days. I feared he might have suffered
too much and made himself die. I can speak of that now when I know he is saved. But he did
not even wish to be dead. He is brave and wonderful and has earned some of the money back at
roulette. I hoped he would earn more like that, it was so easy, beginning only with a few dollars
and waiting till they mounted up, and he hoped so, too. But he has had to put himself in the
hands of the band who advise us, and they do not approve the roulette. It is too often raided
by the police; and then you do not win quite always.

Larry is too much the charmer for a good man of affairs, and I do not know what would have
become of us two if it had not been for this band. It was they who thought of the hotel. At
least, it was one--a man. I cannot tell you all about him now, it would take too long a time.
And, besides, what can you tell of a man when you know nothing of him unless that he makes
every one march as he chooses either with some word or some look of the eyes, though he is
the poorest of all and has taken work as secretary? He is named Storm. For a man he is young,
though for you and me it would be an age--thirty or thirty-two, Mrs. Winston thinks. Captain
and Mrs. Winston are of the band. He is Captain the Honourable. That is the way the English
put their titles with the soldier part in the front. They spell it "Honble" on letters or the
lists of passengers, but you do not call them by it at all, which is odd; because if not, what
is its use? Mrs. Shuster (that is another of the band) says Captain Winston will be a lord
some day. He is wounded and very handsome, and his wife is a beauty and a darling. I have to
call her Molly and she has made of me a "Patsey." What do you think she has done, when it burst
out that Larry and I were poor as the mice of churches? She paid the douane for my dresses,
those sweet things Madame la Marquise, your dear mother, troubled herself to choose for me.
Then Molly bought them as I believed for herself, as we are much of the same form, though she
is grander by some centimetres in front and at the waist. It was only on my birthday that I
find they are for me! I said, "But, dear, dear cabbage, I can never wear all these when I am
keeping a hotel!" She said: "Yes, you can, my cabbagette, for this hotel will be different.
You and Larry are high swells and it will be a favour that people are let into your beautiful
home. They will be glad of the luck to know you and they will pay for the privilege. The better
you dress and the more proud you act the more will they be content and think they have the
money's worth. Only the richest ones can afford to come."

That is well, perhaps, because we have not enough rooms for a grand crowd. We have twenty-five
chambres, counting great with small, and with haste two beds are being installed in some. Each
person, if you will believe me, is forced to pay at the least thirty dollars (a hundred and
fifty francs) a day. It is crushing! I have thought no one would come. But they do already,
though we are not yet in a state of reception. The first day when the announcement showed in
the journals of New York and all other grand cities the rush began. That same night we had
what Molly Winston calls sholes (or is it shoals?) of telegrams. I thought shoals were of fish
only. I will copy a little of the avis au public. Le voilà!

"Monsieur Marcel Moncourt has the honour to announce that from April 1st the historic mansion
of Kidd's Pines, near Huntersford, Long Island, will open under his direction as a hotel de luxe."

There was quite a lot more, explaining how Lafayette and Jerome Bonaparte, and King Edward
VII when Prince of Wales had been entertained by ancestors of the present owner, Mr. Laurence
Moore, who would now act as host; and that there were baths to all but five of the bed chambers.
Was it not good chance that Larry had them put in? They are not paid for yet, and the plumber,
with some others, has been very unkind, making Larry a bankroot--no, a bankrupt. We shall soon
be rich again with all these thirties and forties and fifties and hundreds of dollars a day
(we can take forty people to say nothing of servants if some of them will sleep ensemble),
and then we can pay every one. Aussi the announcement spoke of the pines which have given to
our place its name. There was a pirate captain named Kidd who buried gold under these trees
or near, and though each of our generations since has dug hard whenever it felt poor, nobody
has ever found anything, so the treasure is still there--wherever it is. Larry wanted to advertise
that all might dig, male or female. Monsieur Moncourt would not permit, however. He said his
name was enough, and further advertising would waste the money of the syndicat. He is part
of the syndicat, and has more in it than the others. He would not come if it could not be that
way, Mr. Storm told Larry. Mr. Storm has a friend who is a friend of Monsieur Moncourt's, a
great friend he must be, because Monsieur M. will do anything to please him. Monsieur M. takes
his salary of manager in shares. Mr. Storm does not have shares, because he, too, like us,
is poor as mice who go to church--which it seems they are allowed to do in America, though
I do not think we should let them in much in France. Mrs. Shuster, who has Mr. Storm for her
secretary, is of the syndicat, and so is Mr. Edward Caspian, the man who broke the bad news
for me. He is about as young as Mr. Storm, yet looks more young on account of being small and
blond, with curly hair like Larry's. But he is not like Larry in other ways. Molly says he
looks a combination of Lord Fauntleroy and Don Juan. I have read Lord Fauntleroy when I was
a child, but not Don Juan, so I cannot judge. Do you know, chérie, I think he is in love with
me, and Angéle thinks the same. She says it will be a good work to marry him, as he has one
of the most gross fortunes of America, besides being rather beau, and bon garçon. Angéle was
not nice for a time when we had no servants at Kidd's Pines, and I asked her to wash a dish.
She had the air of one ready to burst. But we stayed a few days at the Winstons' place, which
has been left in a will to them, and Angéle became more happy. She says Madame la Marquise
often took counsel with her and sacrificed her to me that I might have some one of experience
to advise me in things of life greater than the dressing of hair. She has fallen into a devotion
for Larry, and it is for his sake she wishes me to say yes if I am asked by Mr. Caspian. Well!
I have not to decide till by and by, because he has not asked. For the moment I do not like
him so very strongly, I cannot know why. Every one else seems to, except Mr. Storm, and a darling
dog we have here, a golden collie, belonging to Larry, but like the baths, not paid for. It
jumped against Mr. Caspian and frightened him so much that he wished it to be tied in a chain.
We did not do it, though. I don't love men to have fear of dogs.

Mr. Caspian has come to live with us--in our hotel, I mean. Though he has the shares, if you
will believe me he pays three hundred and fifty francs a day. So does Mrs. Shuster. She has
a suite of bedroom and sitting-room. A good many of our rooms are like that, with curtains
between. It was Larry's idea when Mamma and he were married and invited many guests.

Mr. Storm would not come to stay, though Mrs. S. wished to pay for him. She is a very rich
bourgeoise who drops something off herself whenever she moves, if it is only a hairpin; but
many time it is a worse thing. And she composes tracts about peace. She asked Mr. Storm to
help her write some, but he said he knew nothing of peace, he had never had any. So you see
he does what he likes, though a secretary. He has the most wonderful eyes ever seen. They haunt
you as if they had looked deep into strange, sad things. You think of them at night before
you go to sleep, and wonder about them, whether you have seen them long ago--and what they
mean--for everybody thinks something different of him and his past, some good, some bad. He
is not afraid of the collie, but pats it when he passes. And he lights up when he laughs! He
has taken a room in the village near, in a little house, which he considers more suitable to
him than this. Mr. Caspian, who was a socialist once, but is not now, says Mr. Storm dresses
like an anarchist. He does not wish Mrs. Shuster to employ Mr. Storm, and this pleases her,
because she thinks Mr. Caspian is "jealous." But figure to yourself! An old woman of forty
and more!

I forgot to tell you the rest about Monsieur Moncourt. He directs the kitchen as well as the
whole house, but you would not have to be ashamed of him even if you were parents. He does
not come to our dining-room to eat, but has a little one of his own. He has gray hair, a sorrowful,
dreamy face like a great artist who has lost an idea; but I suppose it is only that he is always
thinking of some marvellous new plat to invent. He spends five days a week on Long Island and
two in New York, for he has a house there of his own. I should love to go one day and see what
it is like! Perhaps I shall go, with Molly.

I forgot aussi to tell you of the automobile you said you so much envied me. Captain Winston
attended to the douane, and it is settled for us to keep the car as an "investment." I do not
quite know who arranged this, because it was like the baths and the collie, not paid. But some
one did arrange, and will be paid of course when we are making profits. I know it was Mr. Storm
who said, in the conseil de guerre we had about the hotel, that there must be at least one
motor to take guests on tour, and the smarter the car the better. But he could not have been
the one to pay as he is the poorest of us all. Oh, I am so glad it is my duty to keep this
darling car which was to have been my birthday present from Larry! I shall learn to drive it
myself. Captain Winston will teach me. He knows how to drive all cars of every breed. Molly
calls him her "Lightning Conductor." I could not wait till the chauffeur arrives.

By the way, we have a Russian count and his wife, an Austrian count and his, already all old,
here. Mrs. Shuster is thrilled, and says their titles are a "draw." The trouble is the counts
quarrel on politics and make snorty sounds at each other, so they have to be kept from colliding.
It is I who must do this the most often, and it tears my nerves.

My pigeon, I will write again one of these days soon, when I have settled. Now I am still on
my head!

      Your upside down friend,
                                                            PATRICE.

P. S. Larry has read this letter and says it is very bad English--shocking! But I cannot write
it all over again. You will see, I shall do better next time.

V

PETER STORM TO JAMES STRICKLAND, A NEW YORK LAWYER CELEBRATED FOR HIS BRILLIANT DEFENCE OF
CERTAIN FAMOUS CRIMINALS

                                     Huntersford, Long Island,
                                        April Something or Other.
                                            (Why be a slave to dates?)

DEAR STRICKLAND:

Yours full of reproaches for changing my plans and upsetting yours is "duly to hand," as you'd
probably phrase it yourself. What are you for, my dear man, except to take trouble off the
shoulders of others on to your own? I ask you that! You like it. You thrive on it. With your
uncanny talent for character reading, you should never have expected anything of me but the
unexpected. And the whole embroglio is your fault, if you come to look at it between the eyes.
I ought never to have come back from Siberia four years ago. You hauled me back. What did I
do in the West and in the South? You know only too well. Yet here I am again, at your call.

You'll say you didn't call me to do what I'm doing now, but something widely different. I meant
to answer the call in your way, it's true (if at all), but for reasons which have cropped up
I prefer to do it in my own. You ought to be pleased at this, because I've now definitely determined
to answer the call. I hadn't at first. I'd made up my mind no farther than to come and look
into the matter you spoke of. I'm looking into it all right where I am, I assure you, though
from a different angle than that proposed by you.

I don't know why you "deduce" that there's a woman in the case, for there never has been one
before. There were sometimes several, I admit. But never One. Trust you to see the distinction!
Have you been pumping Marcel? You may as well admit it if you have, for I shall ask him when
I see him next at one of our secret meetings, and he will confess. There's nothing he can refuse
me, as you have cause to know--and you know why.

I inquire as to this more from curiosity than anxiety, because I should rather like to know
what is in Marcel's mind about me. I never knew he had the qualities of a detective among his
many gifts. He has plenty of others! But what does it matter what he thinks, or you screw out
of him? I don't mind telling you frankly that your suspicions are justified--to a certain extent.
It's not a woman who is in the case. It's a girl. Is that worse or better, think you?

I'm not in love with her, but Edward Caspian is, and I am dog in the manger enough not to want
him to get her. My future fate--as I expect it to be--lies thousands of hard miles away from
this exquisite American child, just unfolded from the pink cotton of a French convent. I am
human, however. I'm not a stone, but a man. I saw the girl on the ship, and before I heard
her name something stirred in my memory. You know already what the name is, if you know anything
from Marcel, or if you've put two and two together--a favourite occupation of yours, and then
skilfully demonstrating that they're five!

She didn't remember me--how could she?--though she did once say something about my eyes "looking
familiar." Naturally I was interested in her. And though I thoroughly enjoyed the patronage
of Mrs. Shuster and some others who condescended to visit us third-class animals, I could but
appreciate the delicate discrimination of Miss Moore and her friend Mrs. Winston.

I've never thought of myself as a chivalrous person. On the contrary, I'm what my life has
made of me, something of the brute. But such dregs of chivalry as had settled at the bottom
of my soul's cup were stirred by the news of Laurence Moore's trouble and its immediate effect
upon his daughter. I heard on the dock, and the child heard on the dock--from Caspian, who
had come to meet my present employer, Mrs. Shuster. It was easy to see (knowing what we know
of him now) that Caspian had decided at first sight to go for the girl, who has grown astonishingly
pretty and attractive. I'm here to block his game. That's why I took on this idiotic job with
Madam Shuster. It's enough to make a Libyan lion laugh! But I saw no other way of keeping near,
to do the watchdog act--not being a gentleman or a millionaire like Caspian, able to live at
leisure anywhere preferred.

This blooming hotel business was started to prevent Caspian getting his entering wedge into
the crack of the family fortunes. He was all generosity. Wanted to lend money on a mortgage,
just the sort of thing a lazy, happy-go-lucky chap like Moore would snap at. And the child
couldn't be expected to look farther ahead than her father looked. Marcel was my next inspiration--a
bait to decide Moore that I was not to be despised as an adviser. Now, I am the power behind
the throne--very much behind, it's true, not in the palace of the king at all, but prodding
at the throne with a thin stick through an all but invisible hole in the wall. If it's visible
to any one, that one is Caspian himself, who probably realized in the hour of battle between
us that I'd guessed what he was up to.

I am a type he would dislike and distrust in any case, as I think small men are apt to dislike
bigger ones capable of reducing them by superior brute force if necessary. As it is, he hates
me. I suppose he thinks I have designs on Miss Moore myself: "the pauper adventurer who has
already taken advantage of his influence over an older woman to gain access to the heroine."
Sounds like a moving picture "cut in," doesn't it? Not only does he (the self-cast hero of
the picture) intend to punish the villain's impudent interference with him, but to unmask the
wretch in order to thwart his designs upon the heroine. To do this, the said hero has put a
detective agency on to me.

I can hear you ask sharply, "How do you know this?"

The answer is, "I don't know. I feel it." And the life I've led has taught me to trust my feelings.
I have been like a stag in the forest who scents the unseen hunters when still very far off.
If the villain, Peter Storm, is "unmasked"--well, so much the worse for him, but others will
fall with his fall, we know. And the danger for me (it is a danger, I admit) only adds to the--fun.

Probably you'll mention the word "damn" or some other analogous one when you read that. "Fun!"
you'll sneer. But my dear fellow, it expresses my point of view. I am having fun. I'm having
the time of my life. Afterward--"let come what come may, I shall have had my day." And I'm
going to fight it out on these lines if it takes all summer--unless Caspian undermines me and
blows up my trenches.

The latter, by the way, are of a homely character. I lurk in lodgings at the village dressmaker's.
I have one room at the back of the house, its dormer window looking over a grass plot and a
chicken coop. Fortunately the cock is as morose and reserved an individual as I am myself,
without my sense of humour--or else he's henpecked. He never opens his head till it's necessary
to salute the sunrise; and the hens consider it bad form to boast loudly because a mere egg
has been given to the world. For this accommodation I pay four dollars a week, and ten cents
a day for having a rubber bath filled. Breakfast of bread, butter, and coffee is brought to
my room by a timid fawn of a dressmaker's daughter who does me the honour of fearing and admiring
me, I surmise. I pay twenty cents for her attendance and admiration. Mine is the simple life,
but luxurious compared with many of my experiences. As to clothes, I am always Hyde, never
Jekyll. It's safer. My hat is the worst thing in hats you ever beheld, though I have at times
surpassed it.

You would think I ought to have plenty of leisure on my hands for the work I brought from Siberia,
but I confess the girl has got between me and it. Don't waste a smile. No girl born could tempt
me to what I should have to give up for her. Besides, there are a thousand other obstacles
between me and love. If she wastes a few thoughts on me--as perhaps she does sometimes--it's
only curiosity concerning the "Ship's Mystery." That's what they all called me on board, I
heard. But there is the past, a faded yet beautiful background of early youth--one of the few
really beautiful things in my life. And there is the girl, a radiant figure in the foreground.

I'm in the house at Kidd's Pines often enough, doing my secretarial work (a howl of laughter
here, please!), to see pretty well all that goes on, and the demoniac joy I feel in acting
as deus ex machina I can't express to you, because I don't entirely understand it myself. But
I wouldn't be out of this for anything.

Miss Moore has been learning to drive her car. (You know about that car!) Captain Winston began
to give her lessons, but cracked up, as his wounds aren't thoroughly mended yet. I had half
a mind to offer my services, but thought it would add too much fuel to the fire of curiosity,
so held my peace until--well, several things happened first. Among them was the coming of Castnet,
the chauffeur engaged by Marcel himself--a Frenchman, too young to be mobilized, but supposed
to understand a Grayles-Grice. He looked a smart fellow, and a lesson or two went off well,
according to what I heard in Mrs. Shuster's room. Miss Moore sometimes comes in when I am there,
with news from the front, so to speak: what new guests have arrived, what they are like, how
they get on together--or don't get on; for Kidd's Pines as a hotel is already a going concern.

Three days after Castnet's arrival Miss Moore gave up having her lesson in order to give Count
von Falm and his wife a spin. They happened to be the only guests--except my boss--without
a car of their own, and von Falm pointedly alluded to an advertisement promising an automobile
for the service of visitors. Thereupon the bomb exploded. Young Castnet, like a sprat defying
a sturgeon, refused to drive an enemy of his country. The sturgeon demanded the sprat's discharge.
Miss Moore sought her father. "Larry" was teaching the Russian Countess tennis, and gaily gave
his daughter carte blanche. She, overwhelmed by responsibility, temporized. France, you see,
is her second home! The Austrian was in no mood to stand half measures, and gave notice of
departure. Meanwhile, Castnet departed without this ceremony, unaware that Providence was at
work in his behalf. Behold Kidd's Pines with its best room empty and minus a chauffeur! But
Miss Moore was undaunted. At any moment somebody else might clamour for the car. She determined
to be her own chauffeur, and on the strength of her half-dozen lessons, set out alone to experiment
with the forty horsepower Grayles-Grice.

That was when I met her on her second excursion, I think. I was taking a walk, and she was
stranded in the middle of the "king's highway," about two miles from Huntersford. Another car
equally large and powerful was drawn up almost nose to nose with the Grayles-Grice, and the
road was becoming congested with vehicles of various sorts. The Grayles-Grice blocked the way.
It was impossible for anything else wider than a bicycle or a skeleton to proceed in either
direction; consequently you would have supposed that a big reception or an automobile race
was taking place in the neighbourhood.

You can imagine what language would ordinarily, in such circumstances, have belched from the
serried ranks of fiery Pierce Arrows, dashing Cadillacs, and even from peace-loving Fords;
but what should you say was happening in the present instance? If you refuse to commit yourself
to an opinion, it's only because you've never seen Miss Patricia Moore.

I will tell you what was happening!

All the men were out of all the cars, either helping, advising, or trying to get near enough
to do one or both. The chauffeuse herself was sitting behind her wheel with the manner of a
youthful queen on a throne receiving homage from courtiers. The Grayles-Grice is gray, and
she was dressed in gray to match, a light pearl gray I should say it would be called. She has
a complexion also like pearl, but not gray pearl. Excitement had given her a bright rosy colour.
Her black hair--I don't know whether excitement makes a girl's hair curl--but anyhow hers was
doing it, in little rings and spirals which fluttered in the breeze and blew across her cheeks
and eyes. By the way, she has the bluest eyes I ever saw in human head. She was thanking her
courtiers charmingly whenever they came within speaking distance, rolling her "r's" in a fascinating
French fashion she has, and whenever a heated red man would lift his head from the open bonnet
or pop up from under the car she would remark how kind he was, or how sad she felt that he
should be having all this trouble for her! Then other men for whom there was not room at the
bonnet or under the capacious Grayles-Grice envied the hot red ones, and intimated (in order
to get hot and red and awake sympathy themselves) that they and they alone could find out what
was the matter. I should estimate that at least a dozen men had enlisted under the voluntary
system, while others on the outer ring only waited their turn.

As for the stranded autos (whose number increased as the minutes went on), ladies young and
old who sat desiring the return of their cavaliers looked as pleased as the wives of Circe's
admirers must have looked while their male belongings were transformed into beasts.

"Why doesn't somebody roll the old thing out of the way and let us go on?" shrieked one of
a carful of school teachers deserted by their chauffeur. He, from a distance, explained not
too patiently that the trouble was, the thing wouldn't roll. I am pretty sure that not one
of the men engaged was in a hurry for it to budge; for you know as well as I that all men are
deeply romantic at heart, the oldest boys as well as the youngest boys--or more so. This girl
looked like Romance incarnate--the face that we see in the sunrise and in our dreams--and it
couldn't be often that most of these good commonplace chaps came in for such an adventure.

"Oh, Mr. Storm!" exclaimed Miss Moore when I added myself to the rank of recruits. Everybody
stared at me. I felt I was not liked. "You see I've br-roken down!" she explained with the
smile of a child. "The poor car won't move without ter-r-rible danger, and no one can find
out what the mystery is--though they're so good to me!"

Perhaps she wildly hoped there might be a bond between the man of mystery and all other mysteries.
It didn't seem likely that where so many men had failed I should succeed; still, I'd driven
a Grayles-Grice (you remember, don't you?) and perhaps they hadn't.

"I suppose you don't know things about cars?" she questioned anxiously, as I drew nearer.

"I know some things," I admitted with due modesty. And suddenly I wanted to succeed where these
others had failed. Because, though I had done some small favours for her, she hadn't known
about them, so she had never thanked me except in the most casual way. I thought it would be
rather nice to be thanked by her. I gazed at the Grayles-Grice, which also gazed at me from
under her bonnet, and seemed to wink with her carburetor.

"How do you know she won't move?" I inquired of every one in general and no one in particular.

"The young lady begged us not to try, as it had been tried already by two gentlemen on motor
bikes, who had to go on before this lot came," the school teachers' chauffeur defended the
crowd's intelligence and his own. "I thought it might be a ball broken in the bearings had
jammed a rear wheel, but it ain't that; so we took a squint at the differential, but it ain't
that either."

"Shall we try again to give her a shove?" I suggested. "The traffic can't be held up here all
night. Pretty soon it will be solid between here and New York."

"Oh, don't try till you find out what's the matter!" cried Miss Moore. "There was the most
hor-r-r-rible noise when those two other men tried. We might be killed!"

I made her get down, and then, with a couple of bold volunteers, risked the mystic peril that
lurked behind the "hor-r-rible noise," by attempting to push the car to the edge of the road.

If you will believe me, the Grayles-Grice rolled silently and smoothly as if she were on skates.
In a moment she was out of the way, and the coast clear for the crowd. But no man near enough
to have seen Miss Moore stirred until I had made a further discovery. The deep-rooted trouble
which had defied the gray matter of all explorers proved to be nothing more or less than complete
lack of gasoline. No one had thought of that, because the search had been for something serious
and esoteric.

"Gas" was offered on all hands, and the G.-G., having drunk long and deep, was once more refreshed
as a giant to run her course.

"Shall I drive, or will you?" I mildly asked Miss Moore.

"Can you?" she inquired.

"I don't think I've forgotten how. I drove a Grayles-Grice once for a year when I was down
on my luck."

(You'll let that statement go unchallenged, won't you? It was the most beastly year of my life.)

We were about to start on a return journey to Kidd's Pines, with me at the helm, and quite
an audience looking on, when two policemen came bumping along in a short-nosed car. They bawled
out a question: Had any of us "folks" seen two fellows on motor bikes?

Miss Moore was the only one of the "folks" who had. "Do tell them I saw the men," she appealed
to me. And then before I could open my lips she had (characteristically of woman) plunged into
the recital herself. Her car had come to a standstill, she explained, in the middle of the
road. She couldn't make it start. Two motor bicycle riders had appeared and would have passed,
but she signalled them to stop. She begged the pair to push her car out of the way. At first
she thought they meant to hurry on. They went past her, one on each side. But they muttered
something to each other, stopped suddenly, and jumped off their machines. They were laughing
together as they came running back. They said, "All right, Miss," and took hold of the Grayles-Grice
as if to wheel her to the edge of the road. But then there followed a fear-r-ful bang, like
a pistol shot, and Miss Moore noticed a queer smell--a little like the Fourth of July when
you were a child. She was frightened, and so were the men. One of them cried out, "Something
wrong here! This'll take an expert!" And the other warned her, whatever she did, not to let
anybody who didn't understand that make of motor try to budge the wheels an inch. Then the
two were obliged to go in haste because they had a ferryboat to catch. Not long after autos
and autos began to stream along from both directions, and were held up because she warned every
one not to move the car.

Clever dodge, wasn't it? The pair had robbed a jewellery shop window, and bagged a whole trayful
of suburban engagement rings. As it happened, the police had taken up a wrong scent before
they got on the right one. But had the watchdogs come along a few minutes earlier they would
have found their way blocked effectively. One of the thieves had fired a torpedo in the road
just behind the G.-G. to scare the chauffeuse (one of those big, fat torpedoes motorists and
bicyclists sometimes use to frighten dogs) and so had secured a clear road to the nearest ferry.
The policemen found the fragments of the torpedo in the dust--after I had suggested their looking
for it.

That is the way I entered Miss Moore's service as temporary chauffeur, combining the duties
as best I may with secretarial work for Mrs. Shuster. I'm not sure yet how the two parts are
to be doubled successfully, but I'm sure of one thing: I don't mean to throw either part up
at present, so there's no use in your grumbling or preaching.

Some new people have come to stay in the hotel, a jolly family of boys and girls, and a few
days' motor trip is suggested, with me at the helm. The party will consist of the jolly Family,
about whom more later; Miss Moore as conductress; and Captain and Mrs. Winston accompanying
in their own car, as chaperons. For some extraordinary reason, which puzzles me, Mrs. S. is
not going. Apropos of this excursion, I warn you, my dear friend, that you needn't fash yourself
to answer my letter in a hurry. You may take time to think. Mrs. Shuster is not only willing,
but anxious, for me to drive for the party. I can't imagine why. But I shall certainly know
why, and perhaps to my sorrow, when I get back. If I hadn't taken on the job, Caspian would.
He spent two days away from Kidd's Pines, and Moncourt (just back from a trip to town as I
finish writing) saw him in N. Y. in a Grayles-Grice, apparently taking a lesson how to drive.
(His own car is a Wilmot.) When he returned, it was without the Wilmot. Said he'd had an accident,
and his auto would be laid up for a week; he hoped Miss Moore would let him avail himself of
her G.-G. when necessary. He was too late, however, for this particular occasion. All arrangements
had been made in his absence. I've nobly refused an extra salary; but I expect to have heaven
knows how much extra fun. I bet Caspian's car will be mended unexpectedly soon, as another
is booked to drive the G.-G. this time.

                                       Yours,                   P. S.

The Wilmot has arrived from New York, and doubtless will follow us like a tame dog. If my hand
has not forgotten its cunning, the said dog will find itself often outdistanced.

VI

THE HONBLE MRS. WINSTON TO THE COUNTESS OF LANE

                                      Easthampton, Long Island.
                                  The loveliest moonlight April night.

DEAREST MERCÉDES:

We're just beginning a short motor trip, pausing here all night because it's beautiful, and
because there's a dance which Pat and a large family of girls, appropriately named Goodrich,
wish to sample. To tell the truth, I shouldn't mind dancing, myself! They're going to have
a quaint new thing dedicated by its inventor to Long Island. It's called the Gull Glide. But
Jack did too much last week, teaching Patsey to drive her giant Grayles-Grice, and he says
if he danced anything it would have to be the Shamblers' Shake. I wouldn't put my nose inside
the ballroom without him; vowed I'd be bored stiff. The Goodrich girls' mother is chaperoning
her brood and Pat. I made Jack "seek his bed," as the French say, but I'm on the balcony of
our private sitting-room, in the moonlight, writing by an electric lamp whose shade looks like
an illuminated red rose seen through silver mist. The music, which throbs up to me like heart-beats,
mingles with the undertone of the sea and makes me thankful that Jack's so nice and loves me
so much. Not to be loved in such music and such moonlight would make one feel one wasn't a woman!

The dance has just begun and will last hours. I've no intention of trying to sleep till it's
over, because I'm sure Pat will have things to tell which really can't wait till morning. Things
like that never can! Meanwhile I shall have time for a long letter to you--the kind you say
you like to get.

This is really for Monty also, since you are now with him, helping him to get well, "Somewhere
in France." Jack wanted to write a few lines to-night, to put with mine, but his arm is very
lame. He said, "Tell Monty this is like old times, when he was recuperating in Davos, and I
was 'Lightning Conductor' for Molly Randolph."

Good gracious, what a lot of water has run past mills and under wheels of motors since then!
But luckily (since you ask us to chronicle our adventures, as Jack did for Monty in those days)
we can still mix the honey of love with the lubricating oil of the machine. It will most likely
be Pat's and somebody else's love, not ours, although our stock never runs dry. But you're
interested in Pat's affairs, and really they do get more complicated and exciting every day.
I shan't tell you much about them just now, but will save that part of the narrative for by
and by, in case there's anything to add at half-past midnight. There generally is news from
the front about that time.

Meanwhile, Monty (who is as ignorant of this country as Jack was only the other day) clamours
for J.'s "impressions of America." Since Jack can't put them on paper, I will. I know all his
most topographical thoughts, because he's trying them--not "on a dog" but on me, while I drive
the car to save his good right arm. "The Lightning Conductor Discovering America" I call him,
as everything surprises and interests him so hugely, you would think he was an "O Pioneer!"
Long Island isn't your "pitch," Mercédes dear, and you don't know much about it from the inside,
so to speak. You may imagine, therefore, that it's a small, sophisticated spot on the map for
us to discover. But there's where you're wrong, my dear! It's not small and it's not sophisticated.
It may look tiny on paper, but it feels far from tiny when you set forth to motor over it.
It feels about the size I used to picture England before I went abroad.

Jack fancied (he dared not say so to me till he could add "I made a big mistake") that America
was new and indigestible, like freshly baked bread. As for Long Island, he visioned it as a
seaside suburb of New York. Now, he's so fascinated with Awepesha and its environment that
he's simply bolting history by the yard! You know, he always was keen on that sort of thing
when he travelled; but like most Britishers he flattered himself that he had been born knowing
all that was worth knowing in the history of the United States: a little about the Revolution
and the Civil War, and "--er--well really, what else was there, you know, if you'd read Cooper
and 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' when you were a boy?"

Now, he browses in Cousin John Randolph Payton's respectable library, where every book is bound
like every other book in "half calf," and he sees that things began to wake up over here several
hundreds of years ago. He has even discovered that an ancestor of his was one of the first
important settlers of Long Island, apparently a perfect pig of a man who was horrid to innocent
Indians--charming Indians who believed that Europeans meant what they said. I can't reconcile
it with Jack to have had a pig for an ancestor, but he certainly had, at least one. Luckily
the tendency has run out in the family ages ago.

But to turn from ancestral pigs to our Island!

Jack says the history of Long Island is the history of the whole country in miniature, like
"the world seen through the little eye of a sparrow," as Emerson would have said. In fact,
it's Some island, as Emerson would not have said; and of course we think our part the loveliest
and historicalest of all. There's more variety in history as well as scenery on this island
than in many entire states. You simply take your choice. You say to yourself, "Do I prefer
Indian history and names? Or do I prefer the Dutch? Or does my taste run in the direction of
the English? Do I want to visit the sites of Indian massacres or Revolutionary battles? Does
pirate treasure lure me? Am I thrilled by the adventures of whaling-ships and their brave captains?"
When you've chosen, you point your auto's nose in the direction desired. The only thing you
couldn't find in the Island's thousand miles of glorious roads--(yes, my child, a thousand
miles, to say nothing of the not so glorious ones!)--the only thing, I repeat, would be something
completely modern.

That proud statement doesn't sound true, but it is. You could find plenty of new houses, the
newest of the new: palaces of millionaires, middle-sized houses of middle-class people who
are happier than the happiest millionaires; fantastic cottages for summer folk; cozy cottages
of "commuters"; queer colonies of Italians, and even of darkies; but there isn't a foot of
Long Island ground on which these palaces and houses and cottages and colonies have sprung
up that isn't as historic as European soil. It's enthralling to see how intimately and neatly
history here links itself with history on the other side: history of England, France, and Holland;
noble names and great events. That's what delights Jack, picking up these links, and fitting
them together like bits of jigsaw puzzles. He's absolutely thrilled, and wants to stop the
car whenever we come to one of the curiously deformed old trees which still, on country roads,
mark the direction of ancient Indian trails. This fad of Jack's leads to awkwardness during
our present excursion, as we're part of a weird cavalcade which I'll describe to you later.
But just now I can't let you off those trees!

The Indians of different tribes had a way of bending one of the lower boughs of a young oak
chosen for the sacrifice, bending it so that it grew horizontally, pointing the way along the
trail for the initiated. They would have trees done like that at regular intervals; but if
you were a silly European you wouldn't know without being told what the trees meant by sticking
out their elbows in that significant way; and so you would stupidly proceed to get yourself lost.

Think what those old trees could tell, if by laying your ear against their trunks you could
understand the murmurous whisper inside, like secret voices behind a thick closed door! They
look extraordinarily intelligent, thrusting out their long arms and crooking up their elbows,
as I said. It's just as if you asked them, "How do I get to the sea?" and they, with Indian
reticence, answered with a gesture instead of speech. Some of these arms have grown to such
a length and thickness that they look like the bodies of animals. You can imagine little girls
and boys riding on them, playing they are on horses. Or you can picture a fair maid and a man
sitting side by side on one of those big, low-growing branches, as if it were a comfortable
sofa. It would be a lovely place to be proposed to on a summer's day!

Does your respect for Long Island begin to grow? I haven't told you yet a quarter of the things
that give it interest.

Our part of the Island, the eastern part, used to be harassed by British cruisers in the Revolution.
Also it is the Captain Kidd part. I suppose even Monty knows about Captain Kidd? It seems that
he used to be Jack's favourite pirate. When I was at the pirate-loving age I didn't care for
Kidd as much as for others, because he had such respectable beginnings. Think, a Scotsman from
Greenock of all places! And then he became a pirate not for the fun of flying the black flag
like storybook pirates, or because he was disappointed in love, but because he cannily decided
that he could gain more by turning pirate than by chasing pirates, which Lord Bellomont, the
Governor of New York, had sent him out to do. Worst of all, when he was caught Kidd put the
blame on his crew, and vowed that they'd forced him into evil courses. Now that we've a house
on Long Island, however, I've taken Captain Kidd to my heart. He belongs more to the Moores
of Kidd's Pines than to us, of course, but I value and vaunt him as a neighbouring ghost of
distinction.

*

Both our place and Kidd's Pines are not a great distance from Shelter Island, where one lovely
umbrella pine exists, under which the pirate is said to have buried his treasure in 1669. He
may have emptied his pockets there one day, but that's nothing to what he seems to have done
at Kidd's Pines. Gardiner's Island--very aristocratic and historic--isn't far off, and it was
from there Captain Kidd sent word of his arrival to Lord Bellomont, whose famous syndicate
he'd betrayed and made a laughing-stock by turning pirate. He had his six-gunned sloop Antonio
in harbour there, hoping to "make good" with the authorities; but he must have guessed that
there wasn't much chance for him. He must have expected the very thing to happen that did happen:
to be arrested with his whole pirate crew, and sent to England in a man-o'-war. If he foresaw
that event, he'd not have been silly enough to bury his treasure on Gardiner's Island, where
everybody would rush to search for it the minute his back was turned, would he? No, he'd take
a few of his most trusty men and make secret night expeditions in boats from Gardiner's Island
to some part of the shore far enough away not to come under suspicion. Then he would have to
mark the place where the treasure was buried (oh, but a treasure rich and rare, for he'd brought
everything away with him when he left his stolen ship, The Quedah Merchant, at San Domingo!),
mark it in a way not too conspicuous, but permanent, in case he had the luck ever to get free
and come back. No good marking with stones, because some one might build; but what a smart
idea to plant trees so valuable that nobody to whom that land was granted would want to destroy
them! This is what the canny man of Greenock is supposed to have done. He'd brought the tree-slips
from the south when he risked his spying expedition into northern waters. He meant to make
a present of them to Lord Bellomont if the Governor were lenient: but the Governor's heart
was flinty, and Captain Kidd found softer soil for the planting of his trees.

It makes a nice story anyhow, doesn't it? And Kidd's Pines as a hotel can put on five dollars
a day extra at least because of the romance and glamour of that hidden hoard. By the way, it's
"going some," that hotel inspiration of ours. What with history in general, buried treasure
in particular, Marcel Moncourt's fame, Larry's charm and connections, and Pat's fatal fascinations,
people flock to lay their money on the shrine. They're not all the right sort of people yet,
but their money's good--and you can't think how amusing some of the poor pets are!

This Goodrich family I mentioned--a father, a mother, and three girls (who look as if they
ought to be what I used to call "thrins")--are real darlings. They're so rich they can have
everything they want, but they don't know what to want. They've always lived in Colorado close
to the Garden of the Gods, and the only trips they ever took before were to the Yellowstone
Park and the Grand Canyon. Consequently the scenery of the East looks to their eyes the height
of miniature Japanese landscapes where you can step over the tops of the highest trees. They
are built on the Garden of the Gods scale themselves, and take up so much room in a motor car
that they ought to pay extra. (I do hope the girls may find men tall enough and brave enough
to dance with them to-night!) When Peter Storm first saw the family, he quoted the blind man
in the Bible who received his sight by a miracle: "I see men as trees, walking!"

The Goodrichs aren't, however, the latest addition to the circle at Kidd's Pines. Two days
before we were due to start on this little jaunt three youths we'd met on the ship turned up.
They'd been "doing" the battlefields of France they told us then, seeing the "backs of the
fronts"--nice boys, just out of college--and they'd hardly the price of a meal left among them,
they joyously said, when we landed. Of course they were in love with Pat in a nice, young,
hopeless way. They bade her good-bye forever; but when they heard of the family crash, and
read that the previously Unattainable One had become chatelaine of a hotel, they begged, borrowed,
or stole (or more likely pawned) things which enabled them to rally round her as clients. They
could "run" only to one room for the trio, and that the cheapest in the house; but you never
saw three such radiant faces, till this motor expedition happened to be mentioned.

Fancy their feelings! Boats and bridges burnt at vast expense, and nothing to show for the
holocaust! The adored one gliding away from under three disconsolate noses next day in an automobile
full of Other People! Tom, Dick, and Harry (according to us; Jim, Charlie, and Frank according
to their sponsors in baptism) simply couldn't bear it. They went out; and four hours later
came back with a car (Lord made it, so let it pass for a car!) which they had bought somewhere,
second or third hand, for a song. Even a song of sixpence would be dear for the great-grandmother
of the whole progeny of Lords! The thing must be eight years old if it's a day, but the boys
are as pleased as Punch with their bargain. The oldest of them (Tom) thinks he has learned
to manage the poor old lady; and on the strength of his knowledge and cheek they have hitched
themselves to us as the tail end of our procession. They announce their intention of going
also to the Hudson River country, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New England with us later,
when we make those trips according to plan. My heart bleeds for the poor lambs, but Jack says
they're perfectly happy, and those who don't fall by the wayside will draw lots in the end
who is to propose to Pat.

They have no money, and no hats (at least I've never seen them wear any), and every one ignores
their real names; but in their way they are unique, and it will add to the gaiety of nations
to have them along if they're not killed before our eyes.

Speaking of the cavalcade, which I may as well describe since I'm on the subject, Peter Storm
is driving Pat's Grayles-Grice, as Papa Goodrich says he would "as soon hire a canary bird
to tame a mad bull as let that little slim Miss Moore pilot his family in a man-sized motor
car." It seems that our soldier of fortune, P. S., was a chauffeur once for a year. He seems
to have been most things, and I'm less than ever able to classify him. But whatever he is or
may have been, if I hadn't fallen in love with Jack once and for all, I might have fallen in
love with Peter Storm. There's something very queer about his past, that's evident; and only
his conscience or bump of prudence prevents him from letting himself go on the tide of love
for Pat. I see him looking at her now and then--an extraordinary look! But all his looks are
extraordinary. I'd give anything almost if he'd confide in me. Perhaps he will. Lots of people do.

Meanwhile, Pat sits by him in the seat next the chauffeur's seat, and watches what he does
and asks questions. He has persuaded Papa Goodrich to consent to her driving in easy places.
But there are few easy places, because there are too many people enjoying this beautiful island,
and just missing you by a miracle at corners. So I suppose it will be the same on future trips,
and if Mrs. Shuster doesn't "kick," her secretary will continue to fill the bill as chauffeur
till a professional one is engaged--a Neutral one, who neither yearns for the blood of Britishers
nor the eyes of Austrians. Strange that Mrs. Shuster didn't want to come with us! The back
of the Grayles-Grice is fairly full of Goodriches, but there's generous capacity for two more
fattish passengers.

Mrs. S. said she would stop at home and help Mr. Moore receive guests, in case others came
in his daughter's absence. But there's nothing in that excuse, really. Even Larry could have
come away if he liked. Marcel Moncourt is equal to every emergency.

In our car we have offered to take a honeymoon couple named Morley with whom we feel sympathetic;
and Mr. Caspian, the ex-socialist, in a roomy Wilmot, takes--himself.

Please look carefully at the map of Long Island which I send, and agree with me that though
graceful in shape it's a long-bodied, short-legged island. Jack says it isn't. He says that
I ought to see it's a lobster, and that what I call its legs are its claws. We live on the
southern edge of its top, or northeast leg--or claw. If leg, it is kicking Shelter Island,
the biggest of the baby islands swimming gaily about within reach. If claw, it is engaged with
the aid of its southern mate in trying to grab the morsel. And a dainty morsel, too!--as I
have seen for myself to-day by crossing over to the little island for the first time. I've
been so busy getting settled I couldn't do any sight-seeing even in the neighbourhood, unless
one counts running back and forth between Awepesha and Kidd's Pines.

We started out to-day on one of those pale opal mornings for which it seems Long Island is
famous in spring and autumn. Literally, sky and water were one vast cream-white opal, shot
with pink, and that wonderful flaming blue which rum has when it's set on fire. Our two places
aren't very far from Greenport, as I've mentioned on postcards; and it's at Greenport that
you take the nice red ferryboat across lovely, lakelike Peconic Bay, going to Shelter Island.

Things and thoughts are on such a large scale in America, even in the East (though the Goodriches
don't see it!), that nobody seems astonished at the bigness of the said nice red ferryboat.
To my British Jack, however, it loomed enormous for the smallness of its "job"--just running
between the mother island and her baby islet! But when he realized just what the job in question
was, he changed his mind about its being a small one. Our cavalcade was only an insignificant
unit (as they say in war) among the force of motors which mobilized as the moment for the boat's
departure came. There was a regular regiment at last; also lots of horses drawing old-fashioned
gigs and quite smart "buggies," and capacious carts; crowds of passengers on foot, women and
children, young men and girls--so pretty, some of the shopgirls on holiday pointed out to us
by the man we bought tickets of. They might have been princesses by their exactly right clothes
(right at first glance, anyhow) and their proud air, if you hadn't seen them chewing gum and
heard them saying "Huh?" to their young men. By the way, that ticket man was the dearest old
thing, who very likely had never seen New York. He grew his beard under his chin like a kind
of muffler, and said broad-mindedly while we were waiting that he didn't care "what people's
religion was, so long as they went to their church twice every Sunday, rain or shine." We tried
to look as if we did, because we liked him so much. He'd been a sailor in his day, and was
proud of Greenport for its past--a fascinating, whaling past.

In spite of the crowd (bigger I'm sure than aboard the Ark, packed though it was to supply
a new world with living creatures) there was room for us all, and there was room in the bay
for our hugeness, among the flight of snow-white butterflies pretending to be sailboats.

Six minutes getting across; and then we touched at a gay little landing-place as different
from that of serious, serene Greenport as the ex-sailor's own church would be from a thé dansant.
I suppose when other sea-going men of old made money and grew just a little, little bit frivolous,
they thought no more of whales, but moved across that bright stretch of water and spent their
riches building pretty houses for their children to enjoy. "Shelter Island" is a charming name
for a place to rest in after a strenuous life, don't you think? And the homes to forget whales
in are peaceful as days of Indian Summer after storms. The finest, and perhaps the newest ones,
which have nothing to do with memories of adventure with grand old monsters of the deep, are
on Shelter Island Heights. But I should rather live lower down in some house yellow as a pat
of butter, under great drooping trees. By the way, Shelter Island's maiden name was Ahaquatuwamuck.
No wonder she changed it. She had to! Incidentally an Indian chief, Yokee, delivered "unto
Capitanie Nathaniel Sylvester and Ensigne John Booth one turfe with a twige in their hands,"
which meant giving the English possession according to a custom very cannily established by
the British. Then poor dear "Yokee and all his Indians did freely and willingly depart." I
don't believe a word of the willingly! They were just hypnotized!

We meant to have only a look round, and go on by another ferry to Sag Harbor, thence to arrive
at Easthampton. But what do you think happened? Tom, Dick, and Harry's preposterous Hippopotamus
broke out in an eruption of flame at the very moment when our procession was passing in review
before a large beflagged hotel which faces the Bay. Of course it had never occurred to the
boys to bring one of those patent extinguishers which all thoughtful automobiles wear now as
a matter of course. And I suppose that (at best) they would have done the Shadrach, Meschach,
and Abednego act if Peter Storm hadn't heard yells and dashed back with paraphernalia from
Pat's car. Jack dashed also, but Peter (I call him so behind his back) was nearer, and hadn't
been wounded. In three minutes the Hippopotamus was grinning with her mouth wide open, and
the fire out, but looking exactly like one of those uncouth beasts you see in frescoes of the
Inferno, in ancient monasteries abroad.

All the people in the world were on the wide veranda of that immense hotel, gazing at the free
show, and we'd have sold ourselves bag and baggage for about thirty cents. It is a gray-shingled
hotel trimmed with white, and battalions of rocking-chairs, mobilized in soldierly ranks, were
all left rocking wildly at the top of their voices, their occupants had sprung up so suddenly.
It did give a ghostly effect, as if the spirits of vanished guests had seized the chairs and
begun visibly to use them the instant their rivals in the flesh were out!

If you fancy that we were able to escape from the eyes and the rocking-chairs without further
pain, that shows how little you know the Hippopotamus. Being on fire had given it heart-failure
or something. There it stood in front of the hotel, preventing any one else from driving up,
till the animal's blushing keepers had pushed it to one side, and we were too noble to pretend
we weren't acquainted with it, or even to go on and let it follow. We'd started in the morning,
though we had practically no run to make, because we wanted nearly all of one day to potter
about Easthampton, seeing sights. But it ended in our having lunch at Shelter Island. The dining-room
of that hotel was big enough to hold nearly every one in New York, and most of the inhabitants
of that and other large cities seemed to be there. I never saw so many "types" in my life,
as one haughtily says in the Casino at Monte Carlo. Most of the girls were pretty, but there
were people of all sorts of shapes and sizes; and you can't conceive how the pretty, just right
ones, back in rocking-chairs on the veranda after luncheon, looked at the plain, just wrong
ones who ventured to amble past them in humble quest of other chairs. Good gracious me! I wouldn't
have run that gauntlet for any prize less than winning Jack's love, unless I simply adored
my own clothes and features!

Toward two o'clock we got away, still feeling as if we'd been pawed over and rejected in a
bargain sale. But though eyes stared coldly, flags waved over the hotel as if in our honour,
music played, and breezes blew. All the same we were quite glad to get to a peaceful, countrylike
ferry which would take us from the island of humiliation to a harbour where no one would know
what had happened--namely, Sag Harbor on the right or lower claw, according to Jack, or the
left leg, according to me.

There's a perfect flotilla of miniature islands in between the claws, and people live on them
or spend summers on them. I should like to buy them all, because I couldn't be sure which I
should like best, and whichever I had, I should know the ones I hadn't were nicer.

This was a wee ferryboat, almost as wee as the things you cross lochs in, in the Highlands
of Scotland, but it hadn't so much the air of that being its day to tip over--which was a comfort.
As for Sag Harbor, don't make the mistake of supposing that it sagged in any untidy way at
the edges, or anything dull like that. Could you call a place dull which was first heard of
historically in connection with a reward for killing wolves? There's a dear old town not far
from the ferry. In its sedate middle-age it was a great whaling place, and is still crammed
full of sea captains' descendants who are, in their turn, crammed full of fascinating stories
of old days of great adventure, just as their serene-looking, aged houses are crammed full
of shells and coral and other ocean-borne treasures from the far corners of the world. Any
of these people (we met some) can tell you that "Sagg" Harbor or the "Harbor of Sagg" (it's
dropped the "g," as lots of smart people do in England!) came from the word Sagma, or chief.
Jack likes to believe that, just as he likes to find a romantic connection between Sagma, chief,
or great man, and saga, or great song. But there are other less picturesque suggestions. If
you'd seen what a fine old place Sag Harbor is, you'd hate to think it owed its name to a mere
ground-nut the Indians called "Sagabon," or, still worse, "sagga," "thick-growing," which these
ground-nuts were: "tubers big as eggs and good as potatoes, 40 on a string, not two inches
underground."

Poor Jack simply stubbed his brain against the hardest of these Indian words at first, but
now he has developed an almost inconvenient passion for them. When he looks at me steadily,
and I think he is about to exclaim a sonnet to my eyebrow, he bursts out: "Tomahawk comes from
'tumetah-who-uf,' he who cuts off with a blow"; or, "Syosset sounds Indian, but is Dutch in
origin. It came from 'Schouts'--'sheriff'"; and so on. I never know when I'm safe, but I'm
as pleased as he is with the old Long Island place-names, English as well as Indian. Lots of
them seem to tell as much about their meanings in a few syllables as an intimate chapter of
history; Forge River, Sachem's House, Canoe Place, Baiting Hollow, Execution Rocks, Harbor
Hill, South Manor, Bethpage, and a whole pink and green mapful of others. Of course Jamesport
was named after horrid old King James the Second, when the Island was under English rule; and
every governor and grandee must have a place named after himself! But those names I've jotted
down do call up pictures of life in the first settlers' days, don't they?

I suppose while people are alive, they never realize how romantic their own times are! They
always look back. What kind of creature will sigh for the far-off quaintness of our days and
make fun of our spelling? Those colonists who came in droves from France and Holland and England,
to chase away Indians as dawn chases away the shadows of night, would have been surprised if
they'd heard their times called romantic, yet how thrilling they seem to Jack and me, as we
repeat the old names they gave, and see the "havens" which welcomed them in the New World!

If we hadn't felt already that Long Island was one big haven, we should have begun to feel
it at Easthampton. When I say "haven," I mean a sort of hearth and home for weary voyagers,
you know, for this Island does give you the impression of having more heart than most places.
Perhaps this is because (despite all the Indian fighting and battles of the Revolution) it
was from the beginning of its civilization the bourne of homemakers. And, anyhow, when people
did horrid things here in the past they prayed about them devoutly; they didn't build their
dining-halls over the dungeons, and comfortably feast while their prisoners starved!

But about Easthampton. There's absolutely nothing like it on the other side of the water, not
even in Devonshire or Dorset, where the seashore villages are so lovely. Perhaps he will change
his mind to-morrow, but to-day Jack says Easthampton is the prettiest place he ever saw.

I wonder if I can make you see what it's like? Perhaps you may see with your mind's eye, but
I'm afraid for Monty it's hopeless, as he's never been to America, where everything is so completely
different from other countries. Easthampton could be described in several ways by several people,
and they would all be right. A history lover would see dignified ghosts of Indian chiefs treating
with prim Puritans driven from New England by grim religious dissensions. He would see the
best whaling-boats of the New World being made. He would people the oldest shingled houses
with families whose possessions are now stored in the picturesque museum. "This place of dreams
belongs to the past," he would say, feeling pleasantly sad as he stood by the Great Pond, gazing
at irresponsible, intensely modern ducks. They would remember Easthampton for the green velvet
moss and golden lichen on its ancient roofs, the faint rainbow tints in the old, old glass
of its tiny window-panes; for the pink hollyhocks painted against backgrounds of dove-gray
shingles; for its sky of peculiar hyacinth blue like a vast cup inverted over wide-stretching
golden sands. They would remember gray windmills striding along those sands like a procession
of tall monks with arms lifted in benediction; whereas the summer girls and their summer young
men would think of the charming, glorified cottages with their awnings and verandas and lovely
lawns and masses of blue and pink hydrangeas; also of the big and jolly hotel where we are
staying to-night. (The Hamptons wouldn't have done for them in old days when men and maids--"persons
of the younger sort"--were hauled up before the courts if they were out after nine o'clock!)
While the picture for children would be of a shining beach smooth as silk, and immense lengths
of white waves, marching rank after rank in an endless army, with deep rolling music of unseen
drums.

You may take your choice of these Hamptons, or like me you may say, "I'll have them all, please!"

Anyhow, you enter beside the Great Pond I told you of, which is so charming in itself and in
its flat frame of village green that it deserves the capital G and P it's always spelt with.
I do believe if you dared begin it with little letters you'd be driven out of town, and not
with "'Fruites,' and corn, and coates," as the Indians were invited to leave in their day.
They had a nice well, in a green plain, perhaps where the Great Pond is now, for all I know.
There's an old Indian Bible which tells about it, when the Montauks--a fine brave tribe who
sold out dirt cheap to the Puritans--lived in their village, which is still commemorated by
the name Amagansett. (By the way, I promised Jack to tell Monty that "sett" means meeting-place,
which explains why "sett" is the tag end of so many village names here.)

As I said, you come to the Great Pond, and you feel ashamed of being in a motor car, though
hundreds of other people are equally guilty. It's all so green and sweet and peaceful, that
speed seems a crime. The street, if you can call it a street, is as broad as a generous mind.
Never was an English village-green as perfect as this, I suppose because the self-banished
English folk who created it worked from an idealized picture treasured in their hearts. And
there are old gray and white houses as beautiful as houses in dreams, and pretty new houses
which carefully contrive not to look out of keeping with the old ones. Also there are windmills,
sketched on clear open backgrounds--windmills which the English settlers didn't mind copying
from the Dutch on the other side of the Island.

Now can you fancy what Easthampton is like? But even if you can, you'll never, never smell
(unless you pack up and come here) the wonderful fragrance of salt sea and sweet flowers which
I shall always have in my mind's nostrils (why can't one have nostrils as well as eyes in one's
mind?) when I think of this place. And oh, I nearly forgot to tell you about that great feature,
the museum and library, though we spent two hours browsing in it, and "musing" (appropriate
word for Easthampton!) by the fountain in its garden. They've made the building look as Elizabethan
as though it had been shipped from Surrey; and its books and pictures and relics are fascinating.
So are the girls who are the guardians of the place. They are the only young things there.

Luckily it was the one day of the week when people are allowed to go inside the quaintest of
the houses in the village (I hate calling it a town, though perhaps I ought to), the wee bit
hoosie where John Howard Payne lived. If you don't know that he wrote "Home, Sweet Home," you
ought to. It's the dearest little gray nest you can imagine, and I envy the people who own
it. No wonder J. H. P. was able to write such a song! But how surprised he'd have been, all
the same, if any one had told him that a hundred years or so later crowds of pilgrims would
come to worship at that humble shrine!

We had time, after the Payne house, to undertake an adventure. Not that we knew it was going
to be an adventure when we started. Jack was responsible for it, he having inflamed his mind
by reading overmuch about Montauk Indians and their virtues. Their great stronghold used to
be at Montauk Point, a kind of peninsula at the far eastern end of the Island, and Jack wanted
to see it. The people at the hotel told us we should find a bad road for motors, but what was
that to us, who call ourselves pioneers in the motor world? Bad roads were not in the bright
lexicon of our youth, and of course the rest of the party wouldn't back out when that was our
attitude. Besides, Mr. Goodrich, the Garden of the Gods giant, put money in an enterprise which
expects that ocean liners will some day dock at Montauk Point and so save many hours. He was
as keen in his way as Jack was in his, though he cared not that brave Montauk Indians had built
their places of refuge there in palisaded inclosures.

Well, we set forth gaily, none of us knowing what we were in for, unless it was Peter Storm.
I began to think, after certain events, that he must have pushed his inquiries farther than
we did, or else, in that lurid past of his, one of the purplest patches was a secret expedition
to the end of Montauk Point. I thought at first it was remarkable of him not only to consent
but to applaud the idea that Ed Caspian should lead the way. Earlier, he had seemed to do all
he could to spurn and outdistance the Wilmot with the Grayles-Grice. Mr. Caspian is very proud
of the Wilmot (though I hear a rumour that he's been taking mysterious lessons how to drive
a G.-G.), so proud that he suspected nothing when, without dissent from any quarter, he was
allowed to head our procession.

At the start everything was beautiful. Jack was quite entertaining and instructive to the honeymooners
and me about the meaning and derivation of the word Montauk which used to be spelled in any
old way you liked, from Meantauket (which meant "fortified town") to Muttaag (pillar or ensign),
or Manatuck (high land). It seemed that one of the Indians' inclosures, called the New Fort,
was still standing in 1662, when Long Island was beginning to think itself quite smart and
civilized. That was nice to learn, practically on the spot. We were chatting about the few
Indians who exist to this day on Long Island (rather mixed up with negroes) and admiring the
gorgeous golden dunes, and gorgeouser goldener gorse when suddenly bump! bump! The moderately
bad road became immoderately awful. At this spot some disillusioned motorist had revengefully
printed on a proud sign-post the classic words: "Damn Bad Road." We were forced to believe
him. And at that instant, as if to emphasize the description, millions of mosquitoes the size
of humming-birds attacked us. How the Indians stood them, goodness knows, but perhaps they
put up with the pests because they helped keep off the enemy.

All the females of our party uttered uncensored cries, demanding retreat at any price; but
Ed Caspian, hearing these wails, turned upon us with taunts. Close behind him came the Grayles-Grice,
Peter Storm at the wheel. "Let the ladies come into my car, Mr. Storm," said he, "and they
won't notice the jolts."

"Certainly, if they like," Peter consented.

"We don't like, thanks!" replied all the Goodrich giantesses as one. Pat didn't answer, but
had the air of a captain intending to sink with the ship.

"Oh, very well, I shall see this through," remarked our noble leader. "One can go anywhere
with a Wilmot, even to--the devil!"

That wasn't the way he meant to end his sentence, bien entendu. But just then he plumped into
a rut like the back door to China or--to the home of that over-painted gentleman inadvertently
mentioned.

We've all learned in Latin how easy is the descent to the second abode, but if we hadn't had
it sufficiently impressed on our young minds how difficult it is to get out again, we should
have had an object lesson watching the Wilmot. Will-not would have been a better name, if you
don't mind a pun, for it simply wouldn't and--didn't. There it was, stuck in ruts of sand worse
than Jack and I ever said bad words about in the Sahara. Ed Caspian and his chauffeur did what
the German Kaiser used to say he'd do to win a Cowes yacht race--his damnedest. The engine
groaned and snorted. You could almost see sweat starting from every valve. Nothing doing but
noise! Naturally we were all delighted, because pride and falls go so well together when they're
other people's; while as for the poor Hippopotamus, it looked weeks younger, in a minute!

Finally, in the midst of a roar that would have turned an elephant green with envy, the Wilmot's
teeth were torn from their sockets--I mean the gears were stripped. That was the end; and all
our men, looking hypercritically helpful, ran to the rescue. But there wasn't any rescue. When
everything good had been tried and everything bad said, we had to leave. The Wilmot was left
to the mercy of the mosquitoes. Ed Caspian was taken aboard the good ship Grayles-Grice, and
Jack and I adopted the chauffeur. Our cars backed out of the worst ruts, and it was a long
time before we could turn. There, on the way to Montauk Point, the Wilmot remains to this hour,
for it was too late to do anything when we got home to the hotel. I wouldn't "put it past"
those mosquitoes to suck off all the paint in the night!

Just here in my budget I was interrupted. Pat tiptoed into the sitting-room, spying my rose-light
on the balcony, and whispering my name like a password.

I told you, didn't I, that there was pretty sure to be news at half-past midnight? There is--such
funny news, entirely different from what I expected!

Peter Storm and Ed Caspian both got telegrams. Peter Storm couldn't understand his. It said,
"Can't recall him immediately, but will day after to-morrow. Most inconvenient to have him
here now. This will give you one clear day to try your hand on other car."

The mysterious message was signed "L. Shuster," and it was given to Peter as he was about to
dance with Pat (it seems he can dance), and seeing him look puzzled she asked politely if anything
were wrong. He said he didn't know, and showed her the telegram. She could make no more of
it than he could. Then Mr. Caspian appeared with a telegram in his hand. "Have you a wire from
Mrs. Shuster?" he wanted to know. Peter didn't deny the soft impeachment. "I'm just wondering,"
blundered Ed, "if by any chance the lady was absent-minded and mixed the messages? Some one
talking to her while she wrote, perhaps. Will you let me have a look at yours?"

Peter let him have a look; in fact, they exchanged; and Peter read in the one apparently intended
for Ed: "Please come home day after to-morrow. Find I need you. L. Shuster."

"I think this is mine," said Ed.

"And probably this is intended for me," said Peter. "Was it the Grayles-Grice you thought of
trying your hand on?"

"I told Mrs. Shuster I could drive it for Miss Moore, rather than break up the party if she
needed you. She was to let us know--when her plans were settled," explained Ed. And Patsey
says he stammered.

"After that affair of the Wilmot this afternoon I shouldn't like to advise Miss Moore to exchange
chauffeurs, even for one day," said Peter. "Mrs. Shuster's very good-natured. I expect she'll
wait. If not, she can fill my place with some one else, permanently."

Pat was amused, though I'm not sure she understood the little play of cross-purposes as well
as I understand it. And she doesn't seem to attach any importance to that part of the telegram
which is the most exciting, to my idea. Why would it be inconvenient for our fair Lily to have
her secretary return to-morrow? Something is up at Kidd's Pines! I vaguely suspected as much
when she let us come away without her. When Jack wakes I shall ask him what he thinks. Love.

       Your affectionate                                       MOLLY.

P. S. Jack thinks something so wild and woolly that I daren't tell you what it is till I know,
for fear he's wrong. Much less will I tell Pat. And we can't know for two or three days unless
we abbreviate the trip which all of us would hate to do.

VII

EDWARD CASPIAN TO MRS. L. SHUSTER

                                                  Easthampton,
                                                  Wednesday morning.

MY DEAR FRIEND:

I know you mean well, and I don't like to scold, but really, really I have a big bone to pick
with you! I didn't ask you to telegraph. I said telephone. I wonder if you ought to consult
an aurist, dear lady? And even if you did misunderstand, you might have concentrated on what
you were doing for five minutes, don't you think? I don't wish to be disagreeable, but what
you have done has given me a sleepless night. Several other things have gone wrong, too, but
this is the worst, because I'm not sure what the consequences may be. Add to not sleeping the
fact that I'm up at an unearthly hour in order to write to you, and to hear news of my Wilmot
(which had an accident yesterday), and you will excuse me if I don't trim my sentiments with roses.

Almost the last words you said to me were, "One good turn deserves another." I did you a good
turn in speaking of you in a certain way to a certain person, as you asked me to do. It was
a pleasure to serve you, because of the gratitude owing you for many past kindnesses when life
was something of a struggle for me. Still, you seemed to think the other day that I had paid
a good part of the debt, and that it was up to you now. I don't think I should have asked the
favour I did ask, if you hadn't offered. We were both pretty frank about what we wanted, and
after what passed I felt I could count on you, as you could count on me.

All the evening after I'd come in from a disgusting and pointless expedition I expected to
be called to the telephone. There was a dance at the hotel which I was unable to enjoy, as
I have never learned any of the new dances, and some girls seem to have little appreciation
of the higher pleasure of sitting out with a partner of intelligence, not to mention money.
By the way, not only did I owe an exceedingly unpleasant adventure with my car to Captain Winston's
obstinate determination to see Montauk Point (where there's nothing to see), but I owe him
another grudge for upsetting my plans for the night. At dinner, casting his eye round the dining-room,
he happened to remark that none of the young men present looked tall enough to act as partners
for those beanpole Goodrich girls. "Beanpole" is my expression, not his. "Storm is the right
size," he went on meddlesomely, in that calm British way he has of taking it for granted that
whatever he says must be right. "I wonder if Storm dances?"

Your errant secretary was dining at another table, by himself, and at some distance from the
tables of the rest of the party, who were grouped together in order to talk across. Miss Moore
was with the Winstons, and chairs had been reserved for the Morleys; but Mrs. Morley was tired
and didn't come down; of course the bridegroom kept her company upstairs; and I was just in
time to ask if I might have one of the vacant places, before two of those dreadful boys made
a rush for the table. When Miss Moore heard Winston's question about Storm she looked up, apparently
in surprise; for though you have made him your secretary and he has been a good deal spoiled
by every one at Kidd's Pines and those Awepesha people, she first saw him, you must remember,
in his own class of life as a steerage passenger. It must have seemed queer that Winston should
expect the man to dance with girls like her and the Goodriches. Naturally she didn't put her
surprise into words. She is too kind-hearted.

If Storm had any conception of what his sphere in society ought to be, he would, when asked,
have answered, "I don't dance." He need not have lied and said, "I can't." His conceit is such,
however, that he hadn't the grace to keep out of the limelight when it suited his purpose to
pose in it. He did dance, not only with the Goodrich girls, but with Miss Moore. Perhaps you
can understand why I told you that his being along would spoil this trip for me, and why I
asked you as a particular favour to recall him on the excuse of urgent business. I can now
drive a Grayles-Grice very well, certainly as well as he can; and my chauffeur could have run
him back to you at Kidd's Pines in the Wilmot.

*

While I was momentarily expecting a 'phone call, a telegram was brought to me in the ballroom,
where I was sitting out some new-fangled thing everybody seemed idiotically wild over. The
envelope was addressed to me all right, but I couldn't make head or tail of what was inside
until suddenly it popped into my head that you'd been absent-minded and mixed Storm and me.
It seemed almost too bad to be true. And worse than all, Storm was in the act of studying his
message with the assistance of Miss Moore. Of course he'd got on to the guiding idea, and probably
put her on to it also. The fat is thoroughly in the fire now. Even though I still expect to
get news about the man which will queer his pitch considerably (as I prophesied to you), there
may be a lingering resentment in Miss Moore's mind against me. She is apt to think, from what
Storm will have put into her head, that I might have minded my own business. Little difference
is it likely to make with her that I have been and am acting for her good! In that connection,
you were more sensible! You refused to discharge the man without proof, but you did pay my
judgment the compliment of changing your attitude toward him. Now, however, it seems to me
you have a perfectly good excuse to get rid of him permanently, without regard to my possible
discoveries. Apparently he doesn't intend to obey your order to return, but is determined at
any cost to go on to the end, playing the gentleman of leisure who can drive a high-powered
motor car while he's being paid for addressing envelopes! A bitter end may it be for him! I
shouldn't wonder if it would be. I shall do my best to make it so. It will come at the Piping
Rock Club, where I have got an invitation for the members of this party for a dance. If Storm
has the cheek to go, his blood be on his own head! The dance is, as Miss Moore says, the "climax"
of our tour. I hope it may be so for Storm in one sense of the word, though not in hers.

I have told you before that I can get you a better secretary than he is, at a day's notice;
and perhaps you will presently be willing to let me try, now his "eyes alone" don't seem worth
the money, as you once thought them. Other eyes are of more importance to you in these days.
Apropos of the latter eyes, I understand why it may have been inconvenient to let Storm come
back, but certainly he couldn't have been as much in your way in a big house as he is in mine
in a motor car.

I shall travel in the Grayles-Grice in spite of him, as the Wilmot is out of the running for
days. But the trip is spoilt.

I felt I must let you know how your mistake has affected me. But I have not ceased to be

                    Sincerely your friend,
                                                            E. CASPIAN.

P.S. I am wiring you to send him on the proofs of the new peace tract to correct on the way.
That may keep him out of the car a few hours.

VIII

PATRICIA MOORE TO ADRIENNE DE MONCOURT

                                                 Long Island.
                                               At a Beautiful House
                                                  Where We Are Guests.

MIGNONNE:

You cannot figure to yourself how the life is wonderful, just after one has thought, "Crack!
the sky tumbles!" But yes, you can figure it, because of your adventure at Easter.

I am almost too happy. I live in a story of fairies, and I ask myself, is it too good to last?

You know, chérie, how I loved always to read the books of romance, when we could hide them
from our kind Sisters, who think it wrong for the young girls to fill their heads with such
thoughts till after the marriage. Since I have left the dear convent, I have read earnestly
in journals the writings of critics who live by having opinions about other people. I see by
them that romance is not truth. It is only the dull things which are real. Yet for you and
me, life is now running like the stories at which these critics laugh the most. That is why
I ask myself, "Can such things go on?" For it seems that critics must know better than me (or
should I say "I?"). Perhaps they have reason. Perhaps we shall end in a monotony of grayness
like the books these wise men and women praise for "the realism." Or we shall fall down, down,
in tragedy?--for that, it seems, can also be true to life; only just the happy things are not
true. Yet at present let us live joyously for a little while as in one of those dear books
we read in secret at school: books of romance and even of mystery.

For instance, look at what you write me of your family, which mixes itself so strangely with
my experience. But no, surely it cannot be that the handsome new American cousin with much
money, who visited your mother's château in your vacance of Easter, is anything to our Monsieur
Moncourt. It is only a coincidence that his name shall be Marcel, and that Marcel is a name
existing with the de Moncourt men since the centuries. I regret almost that I have written
you of our Marcel Moncourt just at the moment when this marvellous cousin has jumped into your
life; but, even if there is a connection, you must not comprehend it badly. Do not for an instant
picture that our Monsieur Moncourt is a cook. But, what a word for him! He is a real Personage.
He is a Celebrity. All the world is proud to speak with him, and he can have as much money
as he wants. That is why it is so curious he should come to us for a little nothing at all,
just through the influence of Mr. Storm, which also I do not understand. But, as I tell you,
if there is a cousinhood or an unclehood, it is not a thing for shame. The young Marcel will
of course tell Madame la Marquise everything the moment he passes so far as to ask for you.
And then, if he is so rich and so beau, and has the blood of the de Moncourts in his veins,
what does the rest matter? If I were in your place, dear Adrienne, I would not worry on the
idea that our Moncourt may be this mauvais sujet of a Paul Jean Honoré Marcel de Moncourt you
mention, who vanished in his youth, and has so long been counted as dead. Probably that one
is quite altogether dead, and our Moncourt has no lines with the de Moncourts of France. He
perhaps took the name because it has a noble sound. That is one of the things one doesn't ask
a man, is it not? But if it is important for your happiness, my Adrienne, I can perhaps arrive
at it through Mr. Storm, who must know all, and learn, too, if there is a son of our Moncourt
we have not heard of yet.

And now for myself again!

It is so gay and such an amusement to have a whole band of young men paying attentions to me,
little me, who but the other day did not even raise the eyes to a man in taking promenades,
without a bad mark on my conduct! Larry does not object at all. He laughs. Girls are born to
love the flirt, he says, and indeed, dear Adrienne, he loves it himself! He makes it with all
the ladies, even the fat Mrs. Shuster of whom I have written. But that is his manner. I do
not inquiet myself for him, not more than he does for me.

At present he is at home, because, though he is a great boy, he has you can't think what a
sense of duty. It is for this he stays at Kidd's Pines to welcome new visitors while I am away
en automobile with some of our guests, and chaperoned by dear Molly Winston.

Apropos, it is Molly Winston who gives me courage that life can after all be full of pleasant
things and good endings, for she and Jack go on having romance and grand adventures. She believes
that if "you want things enough," they come to you sooner or later. She is a very nice chaperon
to have.

Three dear boys are in love with me, not enough to hurt them, but enough to make me pleasure
and themselves, too, all fighting together and pretending to be angry if I am more kind to
one than another. Also there is always Mr. Caspian. He has now asked me what we used to call
"The question"; and in America it is done to the girl herself, as we so often read, not to
the father or mother. But, it seems, he spoke first to Larry, almost in the French way. When
I have answered no, I was too young (that is the best to say when you are caught by surprise
and wish not to offend). He told me that Larry wished me to think of him, because they had
made up a big friendship, they two, and there were deep reasons why I should engage myself.
I went to Larry to inquire of this, and he said he did not go so far as Mr. Caspian thought.
However, it would be good for me to be nice to Mr. C. and not make him sorrow, for a time,
until some things were settled. So I am being nice, but sometimes it is difficult, because
Mr. Caspian and Mr. Storm are not sympathetic. Still, don't you find the little difficulties
in the life are like the cloves and cinnamon in the rice pudding which we at school asked for
in a "Round Robin?" (Oh, that nice word! We found it, you remember, in an English book!)

Mr. Storm drives my darling car, with which we make many dollars from our visitors who love
to go on tour. I am considered too small, though I can do it quite well and have no fear. In
smooth places without turns Mr. Storm lets me take the wheel. I cannot talk when I drive. I
am too happy and have a thousand emotions, like a beehive filled with bees that keep flying
home with honey. But he can talk, no matter what happens, and he says things I remember. They
seem to paint my brain with pictures which he gives me to keep. So his words are like his eyes,
not to be forgotten. You know in our garden at the convent there were flowers which would not
be banished, though the gardener pulled them up by the roots again and still again: poppies
for instance. Some thoughts which come to one from other people's minds are like these. They
persist, and they plant their seeds in a deep place where they cannot be pulled out.

Mr. Caspian is like the gardener at the convent. He tries to stamp out these thoughts, to plant
others in me. But the roots have gone down where he cannot find them.

He has come into our automobile, because his own is broken and being mended at Easthampton,
where we stayed a night, and I danced with Peter Storm. I let Mr. Caspian come, instead of
saying he had better go with the boys in their car, the Hippopotamus, because of Larry asking
me to be nice. But I do not let him drive ever--except to-day when I am not in the car, as
you shall hear. It is too pleasant having Peter by me when I have to cry, "Oh, what a lovely
place!" or, "See the wonderful view!" or, "Here is a funny sight!" He has a mood which matches
mine, and it would not be so with Mr. Caspian. I do not know why, but Mr. Caspian reminds me
of an iron fence. You could drape him with pretty flowers, but underneath there would always
be the iron fence. Perhaps Peter Storm may be a stone wall under the ivy and blossoming things.
But stone is part of nature, and has beautiful colours deep in it, soaked in from sunsets and
sunrises and rainbows through thousands of centuries.

All the things I see as we travel in the car--fast as a glorious strong wind which blows past
the beauties of earth--all the things I see are more emphasized when I have Peter sitting by
me, seeing them, too. That is why life is so wonderful. I feel things in double, as with two
souls. Yet of course I am not in love. Do not think that, or you will be wrong. It is my intellect
which is waking up, after it was kept in pink cotton by the Sisters; for you know learning
school lessons does not wake up our intellect. It only puts on a bright polish, so by and by
it can reflect the world when it's out of the cotton. And, oh, it is a sweet world, here in
the country that is my home!

By and by I will tell you about the house where we are now, and a kind of mystery which gives
the fairy-story effect. But you would not know what these days have been if I left out the
tale of our travelling. I sent you a fat envelope of postcards, as I promised, with pictures
of Easthampton: the windmills and the old houses, and the big waves. You will like the one
of the long fierce wave like a white cat's paw. They call it the "sea puss." I hoped it meant
that really: a giant cat that seized bathers, and people far up the beach as if they were mice
running away. But Captain Winston, who loves the history as we love the bonbons, says no, they
have only stolen that name for a great tidal wave which sweeps in from the sea on this side
of our island. It was in Indian days but a meek little word: "seepus," small river.

The postcards of Southampton are all pictures of beautiful new houses which rich people have
built among the dunes. I could not get old ones, though Southampton's soul is very, very old,
full of memories of Indians and early English settlers who were jealous of the Dutch. Now it
is a colony of "cottages" bigger than many of our French châteaux, and of the most unexpected,
charming shapes, covered with flowers. Girls and boys who like to dance and have fun all summer
like it better than Easthampton, so their mothers have to like it better, too. You will not
believe when you look at the pictures that not three hundred years ago, if there had been postcards
then, you would have seen only forty rough log-houses built behind palisades for fear of Indians;
maybe the watch-house was where the Country Club is now! Instead of dances and parties the
only pleasure was to go to church, where you were called by the roll of a drum. A stern man
named Thomas Sayres beat on the drum and you had to go whether you liked or not, because Abraham
Pierson, the first minister, governed the state as well as church.

I am not sure even the Indians weren't nicer to live with, because they liked beads and bright
things, as we do, especially mirrors. Why, they sold anything they had for mirrors! And they
were kind and pleasant till the Dutch and English spoilt their dispositions. Their parties--yes,
they had parties!--were in their cornfields--oh, miles of beautiful cornfields that are covered
with dark mysterious cedars now, like sad thoughts of the sunny past. The Indian families came
to help each other in the cornfields, and the young men fell in love with the maidens and proposed
as they do at our dances. If you said "no," perhaps they knocked you hard on your head, and
took you anyhow! I am pleased it is not so now. I should not like Mr. Caspian to do it.

He was very nice, though, at Southampton, and asked to have the Grayles-Grice stop at one of
the shops (the most fascinating shops, like at Vichy and Aix where your dear mother took us
the summer before the war). There he bought wonderful bonbons--candies. I ate only one, and
the Goodrich girls the rest.

You will like the picture I send of the cottage which has been built on to a windmill. I should
love to have that. There are lots more windmills, soft and gray and fluffy-looking, like Persian
pussy cats sitting up in the dunes; so maybe I shall have one some of these days.

We saw some lovely roads in France when we motored with Madame la Marquise, but we were never
on any road quite so sweet (I have to say sweet, it is a right word!) as the road of the Shinnecock
Hills. We curved so much among the dunes, I was not allowed to drive, though it was easy as
flying in a dream; and the dunes were the colour dunes would be in dreams: gold and silver
mingled with warm blue shadows. They had a look of gold and blue flame in fires made of driftwood,
because the sun was so bright on them that day, and if you screwed up your eyes to peer through
your eyelashes, there was a rose tint with the gold and purple splashes in the sea, like tails
of drowned peacocks. You know it is like putting on magic spectacles to peep at the world that
way. Peter Storm told me how to do it.

He tells me many things, queer little things and queer big ones, because he has "knocked about
the world" and learned them for himself. He does not think he will ever settle down to be happy
in one place; but he likes Long Island to rest in while he takes a long breath. He says what
I call its "sweetness" comes from having two Ice Ages that have given it a "legacy" of small
soft hills and harbours made before men were born or thought of.

I suppose the Ice Ages made the Shinnecock Hills, though they look as young as I do, and as
happy. Captain Winston, who loves Indian names, says "Shinnecock" really means "plain, or flat
place." But never mind, there has been time enough since the hills were named to mix things
up! And most people care more about talking "golf" in this part of the world than of Indian
times; for there is a wonderful golf club close by. Mr. Storm will teach me to play, and already
we begin; but I have not come to that part of my news yet.

I cannot think the Ice Ages had much to do with one of the things most charming which make
the character of Long Island: I mean duck ponds. Oh, but the most enchanting duck ponds you
could sit for days to watch! And the ducks are not looking like the dull ducks of every day,
in other places of the world. They are most elaborate ducks, and their ponds are full of sky
and clouds you'd think they would stumble over when they swim: bright, laughing ponds like
eyes in the landscape.

Now, would you believe a village called "Quogue" could be pretty? It is as if croaked by a
frog. But there was a fairy story I remember, where every time the frog croaked (he was a prince
cursed into a frog's skin by a bad godmother) jewels fell out of his mouth. So one could imagine
it had been with Quogue: and the jewels turned into beautiful houses. The houses are very old
now; that is, old for America, which makes them more beautiful. It is only the middle-aged
houses that are not beautiful here, and that is true all over the world perhaps; for people
had a terrible cramp in their sense of beauty fifty years ago.

Quogue is on one of those lovely inlets the Ice Ages kindly made. Quantock Bay has not a sound
of romance, but when you know that it means "long tidal stream" you hear it differently ever
after. And it is fun to find out that "Quogue" is all the years haven't nibbled off the word
"quohaug," a name the Indians gave to a great, round, purple-shelled clam they loved.

It makes me sad to think of the poor Indians chased from the places and the things they loved
on this island. Even when you motor over these velvet smooth roads, and pass fine modern places
as at Southampton and dreamy old ones at Quogue, and cottages pretty and modest as violets,
on the way through the woods to Westhampton, you can't put out of your head the thought of
Indians and their trails through the forests. It is a thought like a dim background of ghosts
in a picture where the foreground is bright and gay.

I almost cried at déjeuner yesterday when Captain Winston told about Henry Hudson and the happy,
kind tribe of the Canarsies--in 1609, three hundred and seven years ago this spring. They were
so pleased when he came sailing into Gravesend Bay in his little ship the Half Moon (that is
on another part of Long Island, not where I write of), and they put on their best clothes of
animals' skins and mantles made of brilliant feathers, to go and meet the men from "another
world." They took presents of green tobacco and furs, and made feasts to honour their visitors.
But a man named John Colman admired their most beautiful woman too much, and was shot by an
arrow. After that they all fought, and a great many Indians were killed, and they got to think
that every European was treacherous. If you, dear Adrienne, could see a place called Coney
Island, it would seem funny to you that John Colman (who liked the Indian girl too well) should
be buried there. It is not at all a place to be buried in; and he feels that, for his ghost
walks at night. What a wonder they do not hire it for a side show! The story of John Colman
is not the only romance Captain Winston has found in the old books. There are lots, but the
nicest one happened in the Shinnecock part I have told you of: the romance of the Indian Water
Serpent, who avenged the murder of a white girl, Edith Turner, who nursed him to life when
he was dying. Water Serpent travelled for months, tracking a man who stabbed and threw her
in the water of Peconic Bay. Through marshes and forests he went, and at last he tired the
murderer out. Then he left him dead with a dagger in his heart, the same dagger that killed
Edith. After that there was nothing left for Water Serpent to love, so he starved himself to
death, and died on Edith's grave. Do you believe there are white men who can love like that?

All this side of the Island has Indian names, though on the other they are more English; a
few English names here, too, of course, only it is the Indian ones you remember best, they
are so queer. And it seems right, in memory of the Indians, that many roads are cut through
lovely woods. Could you forget names like "Speonk" and "Moriches?" I know you could not forget
the woods either, if you saw them once, or the perfume of the pines and the yellow lilies growing
wild. Even they had an Indian name, Captain Winston says, or their roots had: "sebon" or "shubun";
and the legend is that the lilies are the spirits of Indian children who come back each spring
to their old playgrounds.

There is another thing they say, too: if you travel along this sandy road (it's really part
of the big sandbar which makes Fire Island--Fire Island that walls in the South Bay)--if you
travel by moonlight, or come on the road between Moriches and Bellport, you can see prints
of naked feet, one straight in front of the other, as the Indians used to walk; and they are
not the feet of Europeans. I like those tales; and the ways through the woods (even where there
are villages, like one I loved, called "Watermill") are so romantic, it would be more strange
not to have Indian ghosts!

Bellport I could not pass through without stopping, because of the curiosity shops. I had not
much money to buy things, but I wanted to look. So the procession stopped; and the three boys
we call Tom, Dick, and Harry--the ones who love me--clubbed together and bought me an old black
japanned tea tray with flowers painted on it. Their hearts would have been in broken pieces
if I had said no, I could not take it. So I said "yes, thank you!" and that put me into trouble,
because then Mr. Caspian bought me something also: a tiny model of an old whaling ship. It
was perfect, and cost a great deal. I knew, because I had asked the price and he had heard
me. But what could I do? I was thinking what to say, when the wife of the shop man rushed up
and reminded him that the model was engaged, and could not be sold to this gentleman. That
gave me time to finish thinking! I said no one must buy me anything else, so I was in time
to stop Mr. Caspian from giving me a fat silver watch of the time of the Georges. It would
have gone well with our house, but I should not have liked it from him. He thumped the watch
down when I refused, and Mr. Storm bought it under his nose. I will tell you by and by what
happened about it and the model ship.

We took our déjeuner at a place of the queerest name of all; or, no, it was the lake that has
the name; we were in a restaurant on the shore, with a flowery terrace shaded by pines. Could
you pronounce the word "Ronkonkoma," if nobody told you how, and you had not Indian ancestors
haunting your heart? When we were at our tables--two, drawn near together--Peter Storm called
out that Mrs. Winston offered a prize for the person getting the right pronunciation. She knew,
because her husband had learned it in some book. We all tried, and Mr. Caspian and I spoke
it the same way--at least, it sounded to me the same. But Molly made Peter Storm umpire (that
means a person who decides when there is a dispute; and is hated if in baseball or football),
and Peter decided for me, because I put the emphasis in the right place--"Ronkonkoma." What
do you suppose the prize was? The fat watch I had wanted! It seemed that Peter (I would not
call him Peter to his face) had bought it for Molly. And I may as well tell you at this same
time, she gave me the ship for a present that evening. It was for my birthday, she explicated.
Though it was passed by some weeks, she had wanted to find a thing I liked; and she had gone
behind the back of Mr. Caspian to bargain with the shop woman, so it could be a surprise. She
knew it would be spoiled to come through Mr. Caspian. I shall not dare to put the ship at home
where he can see, but it will be in my room, where he can never come. His face looked so cross
about the watch of the Georges! I couldn't help to be pleased.

If Peter Storm were not the man he is, above caring much for girls, maybe I should think he
had arranged these two things to happen with the help of Molly. But that is not possible. It
would only be a great conceit of mine.

We had quite a splendid déjeuner at the lake of the prize name, with Blue Point oysters, which
you will have heard of because they are of an importance like royalties. They are born close
by Ronkonkoma Lake, at a place named after them. I will not say they are named after it!

When we started again, I was allowed to drive for miles--not ordinary common miles, but a spin
through a kind of motor heaven ruled by the god of "Things as They Ought to Be." I think his
name in America is Billiken. It quite belongs to him, though he inspired a mortal to make the
road forty-five miles! You will have to do it in your head in kilometres. The Parkway (they
call it) is private, and you pay to go through--only a very little, though it is worth much
for the joy. There is no dust and no crowd and no noise, and no policemen springing out like
Jacks from boxes; and they let you go forty miles an hour. It is a pity to rush so fast, though,
unless you turn and go back again, because the fun is over too soon. Besides, there is scenery
of every kind. One would say they had brought bits from every part of the world. There are
woods, dark perfumy pines, and white birches like bridal processions of young girls in white.
There are hills and rocks, with emerald ferns, and wild flowers almost like Switzerland; and
gorse, and fragrant shrubs which must be like the "maquis" they tell you of in Corsica. There
are meadows lovely as lawns, and glimpses of blue water like nymphs' eyes suddenly opening
from enchanted sleep, perhaps to close when you have gone! I hope they do, for I hate to think
of everything going on when our backs are turned as when we are there to see, don't you?

I could have cried when we came out of the Motor Parkway, and I must give up the wheel because
of Mr. Goodrich, who fears I might snap in two pieces at the waist and wreck his family. But
it was very pretty country still, so I was soon consoled. It is difficult, wishing to live
in so many villages! If I had to choose, I do not see how I could; and Peter says it will be
the same with me in New England. But, ma chére, if you could see Jericho! I do not mean the
one we speak of when we say "I wish I were in Jericho!" but the Jericho of Long Island, where
I should love to buy all the beautiful old houses, I could not possibly choose between! I would
stay in one after the other, and sit in rocking-chairs rocking back and forth like so many
old ladies do. But I should not be old. And I would have a man sitting in another chair, rocking,
too. He would look like Peter Storm in some ways--that is, he would have such eyes as Peter's.
I cannot take interest in other eyes now, his are so living, and they have all the expressions
as with ponds which show the moods of the sky. But I would not say this to another than you,
not even to Molly! And speaking of ponds, chérie, on Long Island they carpet them with water
lilies, or else with ducks, and sometimes both, beautifully mixed together. For modern ducks
to be smart and fashionable must not swim or move about much. If they do, it gives them muscles,
and to have muscles, makes tough. How glad I am there are not creatures thinking things like
that about me when I play tennis or dance or drive a motor! But ducks do not seem to be bitter
about it. They just float through life and smile in that way they have, when they are not waddling
slowly in front of motors. By the way, Peter says the "race memory" of ducks and chickens and
especially geese (who are clever though misunderstood) is improving so much they do not now
always cross a road when a motor car is coming. They begin to remember from their ancestors
it is wise to wait.

After Jericho and another sweet place called East Norwich we came close to Oyster Bay. Maybe
your new cousin from America has told you about it, and of Mr. Roosevelt, who is one of the
heroes of America and has been soldier and President and explorer and a little of everything.
He lives at Oyster Bay when he has time to live anywhere. And he is a "great chief," so it
is well to have a place called Sagamore Hill. You will see why when you learn more about Indian
things, as you will have to do if you marry an American man, you know! I cannot stop to tell
you now, because I have come to the mysterious part of my letter; and the only place that matters
is the place which is lent us to live in.

*

We thought only to stay at an hotel, and Mr. Caspian or Captain Winston would have telegraphed,
but Peter Storm said no, there was a nicer plan. For a surprise to us, Marcel Moncourt--our
great Marcel!--had asked a man he knew to let us dispose at his house--I mean, of his house.
The man was away, but he was of those who will have all things ready for the notice of a moment,
if he drops down from the sky upon his servants.

But, my child, it is a wonderful house! Not old, quite new, like the Palace of Aladdin. All
that misses is a roc's egg, hanging up in the great hall, unless it is there, disguised in
a chandelier from Venice.

Some servants are kept to be ready whatever happens. They are Japanese, which makes even more
the fairy-tale effect. Peter Storm gives them orders, for that was arranged with our Marcel,
it seems, before we started. We owe this experience to Marcel; but then, we owe Marcel to Mr.
Storm; and I think it annoys Mr. Caspian very, very much that it is thanks to Peter we are
here. He would like always to be the important one, and he feels it should be his right to
be of importance, because (now this is one of the strange things!) the fairy palace was built
by a cousin of his--the cousin from whom came all his money. That is really odd, but it is
not yet the mysterious part. Now I have just come to it.

From Peter I have heard nothing except what I told you: that the house belongs to a friend
of Marcel Moncourt's, who is always away since he owned it and will not let but will lend his
place sometimes. From Mr. Caspian I have this story which I write for you.

His cousin, an old man named Stanislaws--only a cousin through a marriage--built the house
for his son. It was to be a surprise birthday present, and it must be so beautiful, with many
features and furnishings of other countries, that this young man would consent to settle in
it. He liked to wander over the world, and his poor father thought if he could give him in
one house all the things he loved the best in far-off lands he might be satisfied. That was
pathetic, don't you find? To have the house ready in time the old Stanislaws offered a great
sum to an architect who must put that work in front of all other engagements. He did so, but
trying to keep his contracts with every one gave him in the end an illness many people in this
country have, called nervous prostration. I suppose it is an American disease, as one does
not have it elsewhere. That was the first bad luck of the house, but not the last. When it
was finished, before even it was named, the old Stanislaws died in a sad way--a way Mr. Caspian
said I would not like to hear of; and the son died, too. Mr. Caspian thought the house would
come to him with everything else; but no, it had been given by the young Stanislaws to some
friend. This friend kept away, and would not even let his name be known; so Mr. Caspian fought
to get the place for himself, claiming through the law there must be something wrong. He had
hope, for he wished to live there, not liking the west, where the old Stanislaws home was.
But the case came out against him in the end. A lawyer in New York proved that the house had
been legally given, and nothing could be done. Since then it is Marcel Moncourt who pays the
servants and acts for the owner, but Mr. Caspian is sure the place is not his.

Well, here we are in it, anyhow, and shall be till to-morrow, for we are seeing the neighbourhood
to-day, and to-night motoring to a dance at Piping Rock, where there is a country club very
rich and celebrated. Now, is it not mysterious: a house without a name, belonging to a nameless
man? Figure to yourself, we eat this man's food, for we are not allowed to pay, and we know
not whom to thank! Last night when we arrived we were shown to our rooms by a Japanese butler.
Each room has its bath, and not only that, but its own little salon. (My suite is French, Molly's
and Captain Winston's is English of the Elizabeth time; and there are rooms Spanish, Italian,
Egyptian, Chinese, Russian, and Greek.) We bathed and dressed, and went down to dine in a circular
dining-room with inlaid marble walls, and doors of carved, open-work bronze that have transparent
enamel, like iridescent shell let into the openings. It is the first house I have seen big
enough to make the Goodrich family look small, and the girls screamed with admiration in the
dining-room; but Peter Storm laughed at the whole house. He said he would like as much to live
in the Museum at Athens.

Afterward in the garden Mr. Caspian spoke of that, and said it was "bad taste," because Mr.
Storm could never have been to the Museum of Athens, and "a man of his stamp" was no judge.
It was only an impertinence of him to pretend, and an accident that he should have climbed
up for a while from his position to ours.

That divided me between a laugh and a snap! Because Mr. Caspian is a little man without distinction,
and Peter--but already you know from my letters what he is like.

"I thought," said I, "you were socialist, and for you one man was worth another."

"I am not that now," he hurried to tell me. "Since I came into so much responsibility I am
broader."

I knew what he meant, because now I learn the nuances of English words. But to spite him I
agreed. "Ah, yes, it is in the waist a little, I suppose!" That was the cat in me, for it is
true he is growing fat just at his waistcoat. But I remembered in time my promise to Larry
and dropped the cat to be the meek mouse, while Mr. C. explained with care that it was his
mind which had broadened out.

Perhaps I might have been sorry I had scratched, if he had not gone on with talk against Peter
Storm, as he always does if he finds me alone, or else he makes love. He tried to explain two
telegrams that Mrs. Shuster had sent wrong: one which was meant for him, addressed to Mr. Storm,
and vice versa. It seemed as if Mr. Caspian had wanted her to get Peter back in the middle
of the trip, on a pretense of much work; but he tried to make me believe it was not his wish
at all. "I am Mrs. Shuster's friend, and she asks my advice," he said. "Honestly I do think
Storm is a slacker about work. It looks as if he'd only engaged as her secretary to get into
a class above his own and enjoy himself. I'm afraid he'll lose his job if he doesn't 'watch'
out, the way Mrs. Shuster feels. But she's good-natured, and perhaps she'll give him another
chance if he shows his good will by stopping indoors to-morrow and correcting some proofs that
must go to the publishers in a hurry. I happen to know they've arrived, by express delivery.
It's a test of Storm's loyalty. If you're willing to let me drive your car on its sight-seeing
tour of the neighbourhood, Storm can make good with Mrs. Shuster."

These were almost the words he spoke, for I listened hard while I thought what to do.

I answered, sweet as honey, "Yes, please drive to-morrow. I will tell Mr. Storm he is free
to work for Mrs. Shuster all day long."

He was so pleased with me! Then Peter happened to walk by, in another path, and I said, "I
will break it now." "Do!" he whispered back; and did not try to come with me, as he often does
if I am going near Peter.

It is a joke with Peter and me since the mistake of the telegrams that Mr. Caspian would do
some desperate thing to drive the Grayles-Grice, and that made it more easy to play a little
trick. I said: "I hear you are asked to correct proofs of a peace tract. Is it hard to do,
or could I help when I finish a long letter I write to-morrow? I have seen so many beautiful
sights, I shall mix all up in my mind if I see more before I put on paper my thoughts about
them. Mr. Caspian can drive well enough the short smooth ways we have mapped out, do you not
think?--and he would have his wish."

Peter laughed, and so did I. There was not need to explain for him to understand that the plan
was part of our joke.

Oh, it has been the most heavenly day in the garden! I have sat on a purply red velvet cushion,
on a marble seat brought from Italy. Behind the seat is a row of cedars, like a guard of black
soldiers. These things suit Long Island as well as they suit Italy, though Peter laughs at
them for being here. He laughs in a good-natured yet almost sad way, as if he thought it wrong
to make fun of what a dead man did for love of his son. Peter has sat in the garden, too, working
hard, and we have not disturbed each other. The Japanese brought us lunch out of doors in a
summer house built like a temple in a Roman garden. We had hothouse strawberries and cream
of Jersey cows, and when Peter heard me say I would like to see a Jersey, he ordered a Japanese
to have one fetched. It came--oh, so small a cow, like a great toy, colour of biscuit, and
with a purple tongue which it rolled round a tartine I gave. I have never been more happy.

I would have asked Peter at déjeuner if there was a son of Marcel Moncourt, but it seemed not
the right time somehow, I can hardly tell why. When I have helped him with the proofs perhaps.
(I am to copy his marks on a second set, and I shall try so hard not to have mistakes!) Or
to-night, at the Piping Rock Club, where we shall dance together, I hope. Anyway soon. And
I will write to you all he says.

Your fairy-tale goose girl--or princess--I know not which!

                                                             PATRICE.

IX

ANGÉLE DUBOIS, PATRICIA MOORE'S MAID, TO THE MARQUISE DE MONCOURT

          (A translation of her letter into English.)

Madame la Marquise has done me the honour of commanding me to write when there was news, good
or bad, of the distinguished Monsieur Laurence Moore.

The first time I took pen in hand I had the pain of telling Madame of his failure in finance,
which greeted Mademoiselle his daughter and me on our arrival in this country. Had it not been
for my promise to Madame, I do not know if my courage would have supported the humiliations
I was obliged to suffer at that time, but I reminded myself of her confidence in me, and praise
be to the saints was able to accomplish my duties until better days dawned. In this I was aided
by the kindness of Monsieur, who has much sympathy and condescension for all near him. It is
unfortunate that he should be forced to put his beautiful house to the uses of a hotel, as
I took the liberty of complaining before to Madame. But such is the unique charm of Monsieur,
he carries off this apparent ignominy without losing caste, and is most popular with all his
guests and domestics--even too popular with some of the former who are females. And this brings
me to my excuse for troubling Madame.

Poor Monsieur is as gay and good-natured as a boy. He can bear to hurt the feelings of no one,
not even a cat, human or otherwise. And then, naturally, like all men, he has a weakness for
being comfortable. Money should grow in his pockets, but alas! it does not. They are often
empty, and he knows not how to put up with that. It is no doubt the duty of his daughter to
take a husband rich and generous enough to put Monsieur in the position he should fill, without
anxieties, where, if there is any question of a second marriage for him, the choice of a wife
may be made by his heart. And if Madame la Marquise will forgive me the immense presumption
of speaking my mind, I may say that, from the inquiries Monsieur has made concerning his friends
in France, I feel assured his soul is really there.

Most unluckily, however, Mademoiselle--who pretends such devotion to her "Larry"--puts her
own fancies before his welfare. I have done all my possible to persuade her that she should
accept a certain Monsieur Caspian, who has one of the great fortunes of this country, it appears,
and is also most presentable. This I have done not only because it is for the ultimate good
of Mademoiselle, and because Monsieur Caspian has been considerate to me, but far more because
of my promise to watch in every way the true interests of Monsieur Moore. With such a son-in-law,
he would be free to turn his face toward France: and he himself wishes the marriage in his
wiser moments. He may even have borrowed some few thousands of francs from Monsieur Caspian.
But his good nature is the enemy again--always the enemy! He has fear of being the cruel parent.
Indeed he is not, I think, intended by heaven for a parent at all. Yet, rather than push Mademoiselle
into a marriage, he is ready to be drawn into one himself, and there is now much danger that
this may happen.

As I write, Mademoiselle is away on a short automobile tour, and Monsieur is completely unprotected,
except by me, and what can I do but write to Madame la Marquise? Staying in the house is a
dangerous woman, not possessed of siren fascinations; indeed, on the contrary, she is of a
plainness to chill the blood of a debonnaire man like Monsieur Moore. It is her money that
is the magnet, and ah, the power makes itself felt! She, the woman who has the bourgeois name
of Shuster, has remained at home, giving various excuses, but the true reason is to get herself
safely engaged to Monsieur before the return of his daughter. Monsieur also, it must be confessed,
is a little to blame in this matter, but it is his good nature once more! And, then, he was
not perhaps averse to an innocent flirtation with a woman, even an unattractive one, who flattered
him. Now, he is being drawn farther than he may have meant when he made the pretext that he
was needed at home. I would telegraph to Madame, but I do not see what good that would accomplish.
It is not likely that even to save an old friend from disaster, Madame would launch herself
at a moment's notice upon a dangerous voyage. Besides, there is this consolation: even if Monsieur
is led by the nose--his so handsome nose!--a betrothal is not a marriage, and there is many
a cup does not reach the lip which awaits it.

Madame la Marquise may rest assured that I will not leave a stone unturned to prevent the worst
from coming about. When Mademoiselle returns I will make her comprehend that her dearly loved
father's happiness is in her hands. She has but to make a small sacrifice which she will never
regret. Even for herself it would be well, were there no other to consider, for there is on
the scene a person extremely undesirable of whom Mademoiselle is thinking too much. I have
been asked to warn her against him, and I do my best, but it is a delicate situation. Mademoiselle
can be obstinate as the camel. She would have little regard for my advice had I not come to
her from Madame.

With unfailing devotion and respect, I am the humble servant of Madame la Marquise,

                                                        ANGÉLE DUBOIS.

X

EDWARD CASPIAN TO MRS. SHUSTER

MY DEAR FRIEND:

If I dated this letter "The Stanislaws House," it would suggest nothing to you except a hotel.
It's not a hotel; but it has no name, and it is generally spoken of in this way. As a matter
of fact, it ought to be mine, and I've suffered from a strong sense of irritation in being
brought here against my will. I couldn't prevent the party coming, however, and as I didn't
care to turn my back while P. S. had everything his own way, I let myself be dragged, as you
might say, at his victorious chariot wheels.

We were to have gone to the nearest hotel, as you know, for your telegram to me (just forwarded)
and the proofs for Storm were both addressed there. P. S. had this invitation up his sleeve
as a surprise for the crowd. His pal Moncourt knows the man to whom the place was left by young
Stanislaws, or else he got the favour through the man's lawyer, which I think more likely.
But no use troubling you with details of the affair, which can't interest you as it does me.
Suffice it to say it's a very fine place, and there's something queer about the ownership which,
as it happens, my detectives are at this very time trying to get at the root of. I've never
ceased to feel that I have been defrauded. I suspect Storm heard something of the story from
Moncourt, and put him up to arranging the "surprise" more to annoy me than to please any one
else. Well, he scored, I can't deny. But the man laughs best who laughs last, you know, and
it's my turn now. I got my chance at Piping Rock, as I expected; and as I shan't arrive at
Kidd's Pines with the others, I am writing this to put you on to the situation; also to acknowledge
your telegram. It was nice of you to send it like that, the minute you got my scolding letter
from Easthampton. I'm sorry I was so severe, though I had some excuse to be cross. I forgive
you freely, now things are turning out a little better, and I ask you to do the same with me.

I am writing, as before, in a hurry, for I have to go to New York on important business. My
own car has been put to rights, and I am expecting it to turn up at any minute. I shall post
this, express, on the way to town.

Well, the little lady played me a trick day before yesterday. Watch out for her, my friend!
She looks as innocent as a Christmas card angel, but she's got something of the pussy cat in
her composition. Not that I like her the less for that. It's more exciting. The only way is,
to know what one may have to expect, and be ready for emergencies. She may try to make trouble
for you in a certain direction, so hurry up and fix things! But so far as I'm concerned, it
seems as if I'd got her in hand since last night.

The trick she played was to send me off, driving her beastly Grayles-Grice, and carting the
Goodrich family round the country, while she and Peter Storm spooned in an imitation Italian
garden. I hadn't a notion the girl meant to stay behind till I was in the car with the wheel
in my hand. The Goodrich lot were in, too. One of them wanted to know what we were waiting
for? I said, "For Miss Moore." "Oh, she isn't coming!" remarked the gigantic young female.
"She's got letters to write."

Letters be blighted! It took all my noblesse oblige not to step out of the automobile and refuse
to stir. But it would have looked rather too marked, and that little devil of a Mrs. Winston
would have been too much tickled. Her car was close by at the time, and for once she'd stopped
chattering, no doubt to see how I would bear the blow she probably knew was coming. My one
satisfaction was to give her none! But I hoped for more later, and got it, as you are going
to hear.

I had made a plan for the evening, in case Storm showed up for the dance. It was quite a simple
one. I hadn't given him a special invitation, as I had the others, and if he took it for granted
he was asked, it was his own fault. I knew that one of the most exclusive women in society
was coming to the dance, Mrs. Sam de Silverley. You may have known she was on your ship, though
it's unlikely you saw her, as she was badly sick all the way across, I've heard. She's been
rather friendly with me since I came into my money; in fact, I helped to get her the house
she's taken for the summer, not far from the Piping Rock Club. It belongs to a man I know,
a great golfer, in France with the American Ambulance just now; and it was on my programme
for the day to call and ask her to be nice to my party in the evening. I did call, while the
crowd were having a picnic-lunch, ran the Grayles-Grice to her place, and stopped long enough
for coffee. She's fond of a little gossip, and knew all about the debacle at Kidd's Pines of
course. I gave her a few picturesque details of P. S. and his exploits on land. Mrs. Sam had
already heard of those at sea. The stewardess and her maid had cheered the monotony of the
voyage by describing the "Stormy Petrel," as it seems you all called him on shipboard. I let
you down lightly; said that out of charity you'd employed the man to do secretarial work, to
which he was entirely unsuited, but that he was thoroughly at home as chauffeur. I enlarged
a little on his impudence, and remarked that I shouldn't be surprised if he had the cheek to
turn up at the dance, pretending to be my guest.

"If he does, I have enough influence in the club to see that he is asked to go," Mrs. de Silverley
assured me. And that was exactly what I wanted. It would be awkward for me, in the circumstances,
to have him put out, I said, but if the club did it, understanding that he was not my guest,
I should be grateful.

This was the whole of my original plan, and I carried it out as intended. But since beginning
to work it up, I found I had Miss Patty to punish as well as P. S. I concentrated my whole
mind on my objective while the Goodrich girls admired the scenery, during the afternoon run;
and toward evening I thought I saw my way to something big.

You haven't seen the Piping Rock Club yet, I think. Well, it's absolutely it, and only the
right people belong. There's fine golf, and tennis of course, and I've heard Englishmen say
the lawns are more like the turf "at home" than any they've seen on this side. In fact, Winston
said that very thing to-day: called the club an "American Ranelagh." Not that I set much value
on his opinion! The clubhouse itself is just like some jolly old country house: white shingles
and green blinds, green and white awnings, large open court with brick walks running all around,
and a fountain playing in the middle, wicker chairs scattered about the court, and window boxes
full of pink flowers, wide verandas or loggias, or whatever you call them, where you can have
tea or most anything else you want; a lot of rooms with comfortable chintz-covered furniture,
jolly chintz like the old patterns at Kidd's Pines, and a ballroom fit for Buckingham Palace.
You'll love the place; but I'm not describing it to make you regret stopping at home. If things
have gone right with you, it would take twenty Piping Rocks to do that--and then one! All I'm
aiming at is to show you the swell sort of setting I had for my stage last night.

The big dances are in the fall and winter. This one was a special affair, very smart but not
big, and that made every one there more conspicuous. Our crowd had about the only strangers
in it. Pretty well all the rest knew each other, and most of them belonged to the same clique.
I felt good all over, as if I had a chance of coming into my own, when I found Storm in the
chauffeur's seat of the Grayles-Grice, ready to drive us to the dance. He was in evening clothes
under his big coat: had worn them to dinner of course, pretty weird ones; ready made, I should
say. I guessed that he meant to brave the business out, though I wasn't quite easy in my mind
up to the last that he wouldn't make some excuse to go home when he'd got us to the clubhouse.
But not a word of the sort did he utter. On the contrary, I heard him tell Miss Moore she "wasn't
to forget their dance." That made me hot in the collar, and if I'd been inclined to wobble
before, I nailed my colours to the mast then. Not only was I egged on by my anger against that
fellow, who has deliberately put stumbling-blocks in my way from the first, but by my sincere
desire for Miss Moore's welfare. Quite apart from my wishes where she is concerned, nothing
could be worse for her than an entanglement with an adventurer like Storm--a man from the dark,
you might call him, if you chose to say nothing worse. And already the Goodriches are talking--made
jokes in the automobile yesterday about the two who had stayed at home to "write."

How girls manage to squeeze such a lot of clothes into small space, I don't know. Anyhow, Miss
Patty and the Goodriches and the two young married women didn't appear in the same dresses
they had worn for the dance at Easthampton. I never saw Patty look so pretty, though as a rule
I don't like green, and to me it's unlucky. I shall never let her have another green dress
when we are married, becoming though the colour may be. Storm was looking after the Grayles-Grice
when the rest of us went into the clubhouse, so I knew the dance Patty was to "remember" couldn't
be the first. I asked her to sit it out with me, and she hesitated a minute. "Has some one
else got ahead of me?" I asked. She said no, but she had been thinking she wouldn't give the
first dance to any one; she would "sit with Molly and Jack." It shot into my head that she
didn't want Storm to come in and find her with me, knowing he wastes no love on yours truly.
I was mad, but I kept cool. "All right, let me sit with you all three," I said. "I've got something
important to tell you that can't very well wait."

I saw by her eye what she thought the "something important" was, so I hurried to disabuse her
mind. "It's about Storm," I explained. "I don't know whether you'd care to save him serious
trouble, but you can do so if we talk the thing over while there's time."

"Of course I would care to!" she said. "He's been very kind to Larry and me."

In my opinion it was the other way round, but I didn't stop to argue. I took her into the ballroom,
having previously found out that Mrs. Sam de Silverley hadn't arrived yet. I was counting on
her being a bit late. She generally is--for the sake of the effect.

When we were sitting down together, Patty and I (all the rest of our lot dancing, except the
Winstons), I didn't waste a second in firing off my first gun. "I want to ask you frankly,
Miss Moore," I began, "to tell me if you know whether Storm intends to be present at this dance
to-night."

"But yes!" she answered in that funny French way she has, that would be difficult to put on
paper if one wanted to. "He will come in a few minutes."

"Oh," said I. "That's a pity."

"Why a pity?" she wanted to know.

"Because he's not invited, and that is going to make it mighty awkward--worse than awkward."

"But, you invited us all," she insisted. "You are a member. You have the right----"

"I have the right, but I didn't exercise it for Storm's benefit. I shouldn't have thought of
doing so. The rest of the party are gentlemen and ladies. The club can make no objection to
them as guests. Storm is a chauffeur. I should have insulted the club by inviting him, and
I certainly didn't do so."

Patty flushed up, and her eyes turned black. She can be a regular little tiger cat, that girl!
She must have been spoilt by the nuns in that blessed convent of hers! I believe she'd have
liked to box my ears. But I knew I had the whip hand, and I was enjoying myself. "He's not
a chauffeur. You know that!" she snapped. "He kindly drives my car these few days, because
we couldn't replace the man who went, and because I am not experienced. If it comes to that,
you're a chauffeur, too. You drove the Grayles-Grice to-day, and you would to-morrow, if I
said yes."

"You are talking sophistry," said I, though I don't suppose she knew what I meant, as I believe
she thinks in French. "Storm is a paid employé of Mrs. Shuster. He's been switched off one
job on to another to accommodate. And he admits he's had former experience as a chauffeur,
driving a Grayles-Grice. Anyhow, the fact remains that's the way his status will be regarded
here, and if he comes in, claiming to be my guest, in self-defense I shall have to deny it,
otherwise I might be asked to resign. When I've had to give him the lie, he will be kicked
out of the place. That's a sure thing."

Patty began to look sick, and her green dress wasn't as becoming as it had been while she was
just plain mad. "You said something about my saving him trouble," she reminded me. "What did
you mean?"

"Well, you could do one of two things," I began to explain. "You could come out now with me
in a hurry before he gets in, to head him off and tell him in your own words what I've just said."

"I would rather die than do such a very insulting thing!" she rapped out, rolling her r's as
if she were beating a drum.

"All right then, there's one thing left--that gives you a little more time, but not much, because
if the crash isn't to come the question has got to be decided in a few minutes, before the
arrival of a certain lady--as a matter of fact, a lady who was on your ship and knows all about
Mr. Peter Storm. When she appears on the scene she'll enter a complaint, and the affair will
be out of our hands. You will then be too late to save Mrs. Shuster's secretary and your friend
the chauffeur from a nasty knock which may leave a black mark for the rest of his life--make
it hard for him to get new situations and that sort of thing."

"Tell me quickly what to do and I will do it!" she said.

"Ask me as a favour to you to speak up for Storm. If you do I shall grant the favour, no matter
what it may cost me. But as it will most likely cost me my membership when the story comes
out later (which it will) why, I sort of feel as if you'd hate to have me give you that favour
for nothing."

"I do not ask you to give it for nothing!" said she.

"But you do ask the favour. Is that what I'm to understand?"

"Yes. I do ask that."

"You don't think you'd better wait and hear what I want for my reward before you decide?"

"No. Because whatever you want I will do rather than have Mr. Storm hurt for life, when it
was I who persuaded him to come." (I think she said "me," but that's a detail. I adore her
little slips!) "He objected, because there were some good reasons he couldn't tell me for him
not to go to a big fashionable dance, but I thought that was just because he was modest. I
wanted to show him how I felt--how Molly Winston and all of us feel, except you, the Socialist"--(I
wish you could have heard how she hissed that word at me!)--"so I begged him to come, to please
me. Then he told me he would, and now it seems I bring him to humiliation. It is terrible!
Yes, I will do anything to save him. And now what is it you want?"

Poor little tragedy queen, I was almost sorry for her, in spite of her tricks! But I was punishing
her for her own future good. Think of the difference for a girl between being Mrs. Edward Caspian
and Mrs. Peter Storm!

"Can you guess?" I asked.

"Perhaps I can; perhaps I can't. You had better put it into words, and see how it sounds."

"Well, I only want you to say what your father wants you to say, and what you let me think
you might be willing to say, if you weren't so young. I want you to be engaged to me. Once
you've promised, I shall feel safe, and won't press you too much or too soon for the rest.
We can talk the future over with Mr. Moore when we get back to Kidd's Pines."

"Soit!" said Patty, which sounded like slang for a slap, but I happened to remember it was
French for something or other. (I asked Mrs. Sam later, and she thought it meant "So be it.")
"Soit! Now go this instant and make everything perfectly right for Mr Storm, because here he
comes, and if any one is rude, nothing I have said counts."

I bounded away from her, as if she'd shot me out of a gun, and crossed the room to meet Storm.
It was the first time I had ever been cordial, and he let me see he was surprised. Such was
his manner that it was all I could do to keep up the show of friendliness, but I knew Patty
was in a mood to come down on me like a thousand of brick if the least detail went wrong. My
only fear was that Mrs. Sam might have said something to somebody prematurely; but apparently
she hadn't. I explained to Storm I must definitely introduce him as my guest, because all the
other names had been mentioned, and not his. You could have knocked me down with a feather
when he said, "Oh, I'm not your guest. I'm here on the invitation of Mr. James Strickland of
New York, and Huntington, Long Island, who is one of the oldest members of this club, as I
dare say you know. But he doesn't come to the dances."

For a minute I was weak in the knees. I saw all my work destroyed. But when I'd got my second
wind I realized that nothing was changed. Patty would never tell Storm that she'd engaged herself
to me to save him from being turned out of the Piping Rock Club. She'd be too proud for such
a confession, and, besides, she'd hate to upset his feelings to that extent. When she's not
in a temper she's almost absurdly kind, and when she is in a temper, it generally seems to
be with me. But I shall change that, later. There was still danger, however, from Mrs. Sam.
I had warned her to pull Storm off his perch; now I must warn her to leave him on it, or Patty's
promise wouldn't stand. I let Storm go, even though I knew he was going straight to her. She
was engaged to marry me, and I could trust her--as far as I could see her anyhow!

Presently Mrs. Sam floated in with a suite consisting of one husband, one daughter, and several
satellites of both sexes. She had on the most expensive dress in the room, I should judge,
and her hair was done in a way which nobody could help noticing on account of the diamond sign-posts;
consequently she was in a good humour. I paid her compliments, and then pretended suddenly
to remember our conversation of the afternoon. "Oh, by the by," said I, "that fellow I was
telling you about turns out to be better than I thought. He's not a professional chauffeur,
and apparently he's a gentleman by birth. Anyhow, he's a protégé of James Strickland the New
York lawyer, and is introduced here by him, not by me. He's got the countersign! We'd better
consider him a friend and let him pass--what?"

"Oh, certainly, if he's under the protection of Strickland," said Mrs. Sam. "James Strickland
is the most successful of the decent lawyers in New York. One never knows when one may want
his services, and he's merciless, positively merciless, if he gets down on anybody. We'll let
sleeping dogs lie."

Whether she meant that Strickland or Storm was a sleeping dog, or that they'd both lain down
together, I don't know, and don't care. I'd got what I wanted!

"I wonder why it is Miss Moore's green dress seemed so becoming the first part of the evening,"
said the oldest and shortest Miss Goodrich to me when we were sitting out an extra (I'd as
soon try to dance with the Statue of Liberty as with her), "and now it doesn't suit her at all."

If she'd known it, that remark was less complimentary to me than to Patty herself; but she
didn't know, for the engagement isn't out yet. It won't be till after I arrive at Kidd's Pines
with the ring (choosing it is part of my business in New York), and meanwhile I've gone into
all these details in my letter to you, so that you'll be "on to" the situation. I've helped
you, and if you see any need for a special effort before I get back (or afterward either for
that matter) I shall rely on you. Besides, each one of us agreed to report progress to the
other. If I hadn't seized upon this happy thought for the dance, I might have had my work cut
out to get Patty, once you'd secured the father. I have a vague and not very self-flattering
idea that she was keeping me up her sleeve, so to speak, for use in order to "save" her father.
Well, she "saved" Storm instead, so her philanthropic instincts haven't been wasted. The question
is--though you mayn't think me very gallant to ask it--is there any fear of its working the
other way round? I, having permanently promoted the family fortunes, will our friend "Larry"
jog on quietly with the bit in his mouth?

You have fair warning, anyhow, and I hope to see you day after to-morrow.

I am a different man from the one who wrote you last time.

                 Your sympathetic friend,
                                                         E. CASPIAN.

XI

PETER STORM TO JAMES STRICKLAND

                                                      Huntersford.

          My Simple Life Room. Unearthly Hour; but leading Hen
                 has just laid my breakfast Egg.

HAIL, FATHER CONFESSOR!

When you read what I have to say, if you weren't a model of (several, if not) all the virtues,
you'd say, "I told you so!" But you're a cynic at head, not at heart, and you allow yourself
to be sarcastic only in the privacy of your own brain-pan as a rule.

I warn you I want to gush, and having stripped myself of all alleged friends and acquaintances
(except you) as a tree strips itself of leaves in winter, I've no one else to gush to.

Perhaps it's but fair to myself, though, to explain that it doesn't feel like "gush" to me.
I use the word only because I'm a coward and fear to have you think me a sentimental idiot.
I'm trying to let myself down, you see, as easily as I can!

It's a queer thing (I don't know whether a punishment or an omen of blessing) that our talk
when you prophesied my repentance took place on the same road I travelled last night in a car
of the same make and same power. The same moon which gazed coldly on you and me, and maybe
eavesdropped, beamed sympathetically on me and some one else a few hours ago, and if it had
sense, witnessed your poetic justification.

Now I ask for your advice again, and this time--if it's anything like what I want--I'll take it.

But I find it isn't as easy to get on with my confession as I thought it would be. I'm nervously
inclined to put the cart before the horse. Or, I'm hanged if I'm sure which is the cart and
which the horse!

The spell of the moon is upon me still. I feel myself two men--the man who argued you down;
the man who wishes you had downed him. I wonder if you remember that night--my last on this
side of the water--as well as I do? Can you see us two, after our secret visit to the house,
getting into the car? The moon a boat tossing a silver prow high into the blue, and the stars
small bright points like sequins flung in the air at an Eastern wedding. Away we go, slipping
through Cold Spring Harbor; trees pouring past the car like smoke, hills olive gray in the
moonshine; old white houses dreaming of their stately past; young houses wide awake and playing
bridge or victrolas; carpets of baby bracken; dark, slumbering forests planted by forgotten
Indians; stretches of fair country with pools of moonlight ringed in shadow shores; then, your
dear old seafaring town of Huntington, where to-night, by the way, I had a glimpse of your
own delightful butter-yellow house as we slipped along the road between your lawn and the water.
The weeping willows moving in the breeze looked like silver fountains, and the thick blossoms
of the apple orchard might have been a million hovering white moths.

You and I had no such fancies in our heads that night, had we? We didn't think that each side
road we passed looked as if it led to fairyland--more fools we! But I was always a fool. I
see that now, when my brain is suddenly seized with growing pains.

Just about at Northport you suggested the possibility of my wanting to marry. I thought of
that last night, as a glimpse of moonlit water flashed under my eyes, and remembered how I
laughed you to scorn. All through those gay and vital young woods which wall the road beyond
I continued to idiotize, unable to see dryads dancing in the moonlight (as she and I saw them
in the same spot to-night), careless that Nature was distilling magic perfume for us from tree
and fern and wild flower, our eyes shut to the fact that elves disguised as Indian lilies were
using silvered ponds for mirrors.

Do you remember that lonely graveyard in the woods, relic of some community of early settlers?
"I'd as soon be dead and lying there as live the life you want me to live!" said I, with a
would-be wise nod of the head as I drove past. But now I see too well that you were the wise
one. Why didn't Nature make me understand myself as I begin to understand now? There must have
been the same heart-searching perfume in the woods that night--a blend of locust bloom with
wild roses and the bitter-sweet tang of young fox-grape tendrils swinging high among the tree
branches. Yet I could do no better than expound to you my dry-as-dust opinions on marriage.
Women, according to me, had only one way of making a man happy, and thirty thousand ways of
torturing him. I wanted to have inscribed on my tombstone: "What did he do for the good of
womankind? He remained a bachelor." Most husbands and wives, I thought, had the air of being
married to foreigners whose mentality they could never quite touch. I believed that I was cut
out for a bad husband, a disappointing friend, an irritating acquaintance, and that the ends
of the earth were the only happy hunting grounds for a wild spirit like mine--places where
I could freely dive far down under the surface of myself and swim at ease. Birds in the hand
had no brightness of plumage for me. They were always moulting. I coveted the ones that sang
farthest away in the bush. "Why have a mad desire to become an ancestor for people you don't
know and may dislike?" I think I remember inquiring of you, as you sagely dilated--at ancient
Smithtown--on the notable achievements of a certain Bull Rider Smith for the benefits of his
posterity. He was doubtless a smart business man and a good sportsman, to gallop so far and
fast on such an animal, when told he could have all the road he could ride round on bull-back
in the course of a day. But to me his ambitions seemed futile, and the whole of Long Island
less important than a flyspeck on the map of the world. Now, I shouldn't mind spending my life
here, even in the house, though I should prefer an old one; and the Smithtown church with its
Cyclopian eye of a clock in a tall Puritanical steeple would exactly suit me to be married in.

As we bowled along the Middle Island Country Road she wanted to know if I had ever driven there
before. I had to say "yes" (I couldn't lie to her), and then she asked an embarrassing question
or two. But she was almost pathetically easy to put off, so afraid she was of being overcurious.
I would have given a good deal to burst out with the whole truth, in that mood of mine, a mood
of exaltation with my soul flaming up like a beacon. But even if I'd seriously thought of speaking,
I couldn't with the back of the car boiling over with handsome giantesses from Colorado--goddesses
from the Garden of the Gods. They were pretty good about not interrupting; but now and again
they couldn't resist breaking in with "Oh, is it our dear old Peconic River again, that gives
the name to Riverhead?" or, "Did they call it Jamesport after King James the Second of England?"
or, "Can those beautiful black trees in front of that darling white house be Irish yews?" or,
"Don't you think Southold's the most adorable old town we've seen yet?" Of course, if my companion
on the front seat had catechized me in this way, I should have been charmed to give her all
my feeble fund of information concerning Huguenot and English settlers, dates, etc. (fortunately
1648 will do in most instances!), but it was a little disconcerting to hear these extraneous
discords just when my heart was beating well in tune with the oldest song in the world.

You now need no explanation of what has happened to me. Besides, you've been expecting it to
happen. I knew that, and expected on my part to disappoint you by its not happening. But this
Girl Magic has been too much for me. I've gone under; and I should be a happy man as the moon
sets and the sun rises to-day if only I'd listened to you on that moonlight night before it
was too late.

Yet is it too late? That's what I want to thrash out. Have I locked the door between myself
and happiness with such a girl as Patricia Moore, and is the key lost? Or can I with your help
find the key, oil the lock, and open the door?

I used to think a very young girl went about--so to speak--with a love letter in her pocket
all ready for post except that it wasn't yet addressed. But this girl isn't like that. She
wouldn't write the letter till she knew the address she wanted to send it to. All the same
I feel the possibility that I could make her care for me.

I suppose I was falling in love with her when I wrote you that I wasn't. I thought it was just
very pleasant and amusing to be on terms of friendship with such a charming and unique girl.
But now--friendship! There's as much difference between that and love as there is between a
photographic copy of a Tintoretto and the original Tintoret itself. When I think of any other
man getting Patricia Moore, a link seems to drop right out of my spine. Yet she's not born
for an old maid. Love and a "happy ending" for her story ought to be attached to her like a
label. If I can't work to get her, some one else will. Caspian is doing it already, but in
spite of the money I don't think she'd ever take him: her instinct finds truth as the needle
finds the pole. Three boys are also working; but they're big babies, with young-chicken-coloured
hair and merry, heather-mixture eyes. They talk no language but slang. They come to grief in
a preposterous automobile about every ten miles and attract their idol's attention and startle
horses by giving vent to S. O. S. yells. Whenever they have to enter a room they plunge in
as if the door had broken away before them. Their only conception of a "good time" is ragtime.
If one of them shows signs for a moment of having been trained to house manners, his chums
taunt him. "None of your Pêche Melba airs here!" is the favourite expression. So you'll agree
with me I have a fair field, if I'm permitted to enter. Am I?

Can I undo everything and go back to the days before the revolution? Would it be fair to others
concerned? And that reminds me, whatever happens, young Marcel mustn't suffer. He has been
a complication for some time, but apparently he's likely to be a more serious one now. You'd
never guess what he's done, if I gave you a dozen chances, so I'll sandwich his love story
with mine.

Her best friend is named Adrienne de Moncourt, daughter of the widowed Marquise "of that ilk."
The said Marquise, from what I gather, is responsible for Miss Moore's being brought up in
France, under her own eye. I shrewdly suspect this was arranged in the hope of attracting our
"Beloved Vagabond," Larry, back and forth across the sea. A terrible, man-eating tigress of
a lady's maid has been imported, nominally to take care of Princess Pat, secretly (or I'll
eat my hat) to keep an eye upon and report on Larry's capers to the Marquise de Moncourt! Since
my Princess came to these shores, "a distant cousin from America" has introduced himself to
the Marquise. He being young, good looking, and presumably rich, the lady invited him to her
château to spend Easter. Mademoiselle came home from school for the holidays. The two met.
The name of the rich American cousin is Marcel de Moncourt. The Princess Patricia says that
she loves her Adrienne next best to Larry, and she hopes and prays the cousin is all he should
be. She asked me to tell her if "our Marcel" had a son. I was obliged to confess that he had;
but when she wanted to know if it could possibly be the same, I hedged in every direction.
You and Moncourt and I must have a powwow as soon as possible.

You can't blame me for falling in love, as you always said the thing was inevitable; and you'll
be even less likely to croak if I tell you how it was I first diagnosed the serious state of
my feelings.

It was at the dance you got me invited to at the Piping Rock Club--many thanks again. You will
deduce that I bought a "reach me down" evening suit before starting on this expedition--first
time I'd worried myself into such togs for heaven knows how long. I never thought to be caught
by conventions again, but I'd tar and feather my body if that was the costume best suited to
her society. You see how I'm turning over new leaves--turning so fast I've hardly time to read
them as I go on!

As I explained to you in asking the favour, I guessed that Caspian meant to score over me,
so I wanted to be the one to do the scoring. I thought if I simply swaggered into the ballroom
as one of Caspian's guests, he was certain to repudiate me, which would have been rather amusing
if it hadn't made me conspicuous. It was, as you remarked, something of a risk to appear at
all in such a place on such an occasion, but I've trusted to luck so often and come out on
the top of the wave (literally!) that I didn't mind, provided I could jog along quietly, and
get in even one dance with my little princess. I felt safe under your respectable wing, and
was looking forward to the fun of not exploding if Caspian had laid a fuse to blow me up. But
Strickland, think of it, she had been suffering for my sake!

When I went to ask her for our dance, I found her deadly pale. "What is the matter?" I jerked
out, actually scared by her whiteness. "Are you faint? Shall I take you into the open air?"

"Oh, please do!" she said; and I whisked her out quickly onto one of those verandas as wide
as a room.

"Could we go home?" she asked piteously, but when I suggested making a dash into the ballroom
to find her pal, Mrs. Winston, she wouldn't hear of it. "No," she said, "Molly mustn't be disturbed.
It is nothing. Only--I should like to go. If you wouldn't mind."

If I wouldn't mind! It would have been pretty well worth being born for to drive her back alone,
just we two in the car, but I dared not take the child at her word. I thought she was too ill
to remember Mrs. Grundy's silly old existence, and I couldn't take advantage of her forgetfulness.
At the same time it seemed the act of a prig grafted on to a bounder to put the idea into her
head, and make her ashamed of having said the wrong thing. You see what a nuisance my conscience
is! I petted it so much when it was young, now it won't stop in its cage. I didn't know what
to say, and felt as if it would be money in my pocket not to have been born, for my spirit
had melted in me, as one of those soft capsules melts in your mouth.

I don't know what I should have said or done, my mental state being that of a hen in front
of a motor, if at that instant Mrs. Winston herself hadn't appeared. It was as if my subconscious
self had made a dash and dragged her out by the hair! Winston was with her (as Mrs. Shuster
ingenuously remarked one day, "That man is as nice to his wife as if he were somebody else's
husband"), and they came straight to us, marching solemnly, like a deputation.

"Angel child," said Molly (we all think of her as "Molly"), "I noticed you looking a little
wan, so Jack and I just waltzed out to see how you were, and also to pat Mr. Storm figuratively
on the back."

"Why--what has happened?" inquired the princess almost wildly.

"Such fun! Envy is the sincerest flattery, so Mr. Storm ought to be pleased that Mr. Caspian
hasn't loved him since the day he had his great inspiration about Marcel and Kidd's Pines.
It appears that our vaudevillain (isn't that a nice name for dear Eddy?) passed round the word
that Mr. Storm had no invitation to this dance, when all the time he had come on the behest
of some fearfully celebrated man in New York every one seems to bow down to. Collapse of the
gunpowder plot!"

"Oh, I'm so thankful!" sighed dear Molly's Angel Child. She clapped her hands and gave a little
skip. Then I guessed in a flash why she had looked pale, why she had wanted to get me out of
the ballroom, and why she'd been ready to defy old Lady Grundy in order to keep me safe, and
avoid hurting the poor secretary-chauffeur's feelings by telling him what was up. That was
the moment, my friend, when I realized that I'd always been wrong and you'd always been right.
I knew that the girl lit the world for me.

Again I ask you, What am I going to do about it?

I don't believe she's in love with me. It was only that she couldn't bear to have me humiliated,
and was willing to make a sacrifice to save me pain. But I do believe I could make her love
me if I tried.

The kind angel as good as admitted the cause of her illness by making a quick recovery and
going in with Captain Winston while I followed with his wife. Molly, by the way, almost confessed
she'd suspected that Pat was anxious for my welfare, and had come out to relieve the girl's
mind. Do you wonder at the state of mine? I'm bound to add that my rescue didn't seem to restore
her spirits permanently. She looked rather "wan," as Molly said, all the rest of the evening;
or it may have been the effect of a green dress she wore. Certainly she was somewhat piano
in manner, too; and despite her pal's slap at Caspian, the princess didn't treat him as if
he were the dragon of the opera. On the contrary, she sat out several dances with him. I bear
her no grudge, though! She hadn't the air of enjoying his society.

We were to have started for Kidd's Pines the morning after the dance at Piping Rock, but a
Mrs. Sam de Silverley (who said she knew you) was moved by curiosity to want me introduced
to her. She "pined to see the inside of the Stanislaws house," first hinted and then pleaded
to do so, and in return invited the whole of our crowd to a garden party at her place. Some
Russian dancers were to "entertain," and the Goodriches--who are seeing life with all their
souls--yearned to go. So did our bride and bridegroom, who want their money's worth of honeymoon;
therefore it was arranged that we stay over, and drive home in a moonlight procession.

I am not built for bun worries, be they out of doors or in, and declined on the plea of important
work. Besides, I saw by the look in Patsey's eyes that she also intended to refuse. I hoped
that through some remarkable coincidence we might meet in the garden "at home," as we had the
day before, but Caspian caught the coincidence this time, so I sulked in the house with man's
most faithful dumb companion, a pipe. Caspian didn't stay with my little lady for long, so
I hope she refused him and got it over with. Anyhow, she was in a delicious mood all the way
to Kidd's Pines, as you may have assumed from the tone and indeed the very existence of this
letter. We talked of impersonal things, never of ourselves and seldom of each other, and she
was not as gay as when we began the trip, yet--never had she been so dear.

I began this letter with a partial promise to abide by your advice; but if you harshly tell
me it's too late to change things, I'm afraid I shall go full speed ahead just the same. I
won't, however, decide till I hear from you--not because I'm patient, but because the girl
mustn't be "rushed" in any case. Besides, I shall very likely not see her to-day. I dropped
the party at the door of Kidd's Pines in the dead middle of the night (forgot to tell you Caspian
didn't come with us, but turned tail and went to New York: another sign!), garaged the Grayles-Grice,
and biked to the village. I'll now try to sleep for an hour or two--less because I'm tired
than because I want to dream myself back in the path of the moon, where walks Romance to greet
me. My bed here, by the by, usually reminds me of a rack out of commission. But to-day I don't
care. I shall find it a bed of roses.

Write as soon as you've thought things over, please. Or, better still, wire: "Advise yes,"
or--but I won't think of the alternative.

Either way, however, I'll still be yours loyally,

                                                          PIETRO.

P.S. Can't sleep, can't dream. Something tells me all isn't well at Kidd's Pines. I had forebodings
before we started that there'd be ructions when we got back, but I'd mislaid them under a thousand
other thoughts. Seems a long time ago! But while I was trying to sleep just now, this came
into my mind as if a voice spoke it: "Bridge the gulf that parts you from your wish, and you
can walk across." I wish it were your voice said that, old man!

P.P.S. Talk of women with their postscripts! They're not in it with me. I keep leaping off
the gridiron--I mean out of bed--again and again to add a word that threatens to burst my brain
if bottled up. This time shall be the last! I only want to assure you that I'm not brooding
over any coup of revenge against Caspian. My personal dislike of him has nothing to do with
my attitude, except that the more I see of the worm the more I see what a worm he is. Not only
is he unworthy to crawl in the same atmosphere with Miss Moore (don't smile sarcastically at
that expression. I like it!) but he's more fitted for underground conditions than any caterpillar
I ever met. Caterpillars change to butterflies. Worms, as far as my knowledge goes, are changeless.
I don't feel revengeful against him. But I don't feel conscientious and dutiful for a cent!

XII

PATRICIA MOORE TO ADRIENNE DE MONCOURT

CHÉRIE:

I have not the heart or the time for a long letter, but I must quickly tell you that our Marcel
has a son. I asked P. S. But he seems not to think your new cousin can be the same. Soon, surely,
he will himself say everything to you, and open his heart wide. Ah, how I wish you all there
is of happiness, the more because I am not to have it myself.

The critics knew better about life than I, you see, Mignonne. Yet I am going to be brave. I
have got myself engaged with Mr. Caspian already, since I wrote from the beautiful house. You
will think that strange, but it came to happen in a simple way. It was at the dance at the
Piping Rock Club. That sounds romantic, is it not? But it was not romantic at all. I just had
to do it. Then, after a little while, I was very sorry. I thought perhaps I need not have made
myself this misery. I was not nice to him the rest of that night, and the next day I would
not let him take a snapshot of me in the wonderful garden. I said I had a copyright of my own
face, if we were engaged! And I hoped that would make him break, but it did not. He was only
in the sulks. And he does not look nice in the sulks. I was glad he had to go to New York and
not motor home with us in the Grayles-Grice, and I could not be interested when he said in
hints that his business in town had something to do with me--something I should like! I'm sure
I cannot like it. And oh, chérie, he has such slept on looking ears, I dare not think of them:
too flat, and crinkly at the top like inside lettuce leaves!

I was making up my mind all the way home in heavenly moonlight that it had been a mistake and
I must jump out of it. This made me almost happy again--this, and watching Peter Storm drive,
which I do like to see, he does it so well, so strongly, it seems to give you strength being
near him.

But now I am at home and everything is changed, worse than when Larry was bankrupted. I found
him almost engaged to Mrs. Shuster. He was doing it because of being poor, and to save me from
the sacrifice. That was what he explained. So of course I told him I had promised to marry
Mr. Caspian, and all would be right for us. He is going to get out of it with Mrs. Shuster
if he can in honour. If he cannot I must try to dig him out. Larry matters so much more than
I do! I wish I were being engaged in France instead of here, because there I think les jeunes
filles do not have to kiss. Here, one says they do. But I will not!

I wish again thy happiness, dear one. Mine is lost. Would it do good if you prayed to Saint
Anthony of Padua to find it for me again?

Nobody knows yet except Larry. I shall not tell Angéle. She would be pleased, and I should
want to slap her!

                             Your poor                      PATRICE.

XIII

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                            Awepesha, Long Island,
                                                         Wednesday.

DEAREST OLD GIRL:

I shouldn't call you that if you weren't young and beautiful!

Jack and I have just sent you a cheap, enthusiastic cable containing the one word "Hurrah!"
You will understand that our cheers ring across the Atlantic because Monty is mending well.
Your letter came this morning with the good news. Biarritz will be a jolly place for his convalescence.
I shall never forget when Jack and I were there together before we were engaged. Oh, with Aunt
Mary Kedison, of course! And in Jack's car, my poor old Horror of accursed memory being burnt
long before. Jack was "Brown" then, and my "Lightning Conductor" as he still is and ever shall
be; though just at present when we motor I have to sit behind the scenes and make the lightning
work. His wounds have left him stiff in the left arm and leg, but the doctors say he will really
and truly be himself again in a few months: six or seven at most. I wish you the same luck
with Monty, or better if possible.

By the way, we shall meet Aunt Mary again soon. She has been to the Bahamas for the winter,
with a family of retired missionaries (I think they retired after one of them was eaten), but
has come back to a house she owns in New England. We shall have to stop and say, "How do you
do and good-bye" on our way somewhere else. I confess I dread it, for though Aunt Mary is as
good as gold, or, anyhow, silver, she's one of those creatures who begin: "You know I'm a very
truthful woman," whenever they have a disagreeable personal remark to make. You've met the
type! They're mostly women; and they dissolve in tears and think you cruel as dozens of graves
if you retort in kind. I expect Aunt Mary's (almost) first words to Jack will be, "Well, Mr.
Winston--(oh, Captain is it, Molly?)--I'm glad to see that my niece and you continue to get
along fairly. You're aware I never could approve on principle of these international matches,
or mismatches; American women ought to marry men of their own country, if they must marry at
all." (She's never forgiven me for snubbing her pet, Jimmy Payne, now a terribly respectable
husband and Poopa.) "Still, there can be exceptions, and evidently you don't bully my niece,
as it's established that most Englishmen do their wives, for she's looking well considering
her age. Let me see, she was born in the year----" But at this point I shall interrupt Aunt
Mary by a bright remark about the weather, or a bludgeon if the weather won't work!

I thank our lucky stars (Jack and I have a skyful) that we're going to do another trip before
we start for New England. Of course I want my ewe-lion (I've named him that behind his back
since he turned warrior) to see all of my dear country he can before we have to sail again;
but it's too bad such a lovely part as New England should be infested by aunts, isn't it? It's
called the "Ideal Tour," I believe--through the White Mountains and some green and blue ones,
etc.--but for Jack and me it will have a drawback. People used to be torn to death by wild
horses. That's not done in the best circles now; but it's perfectly admissible, alas, to be
talked to death by wild aunts.

I'm charmed that you're so interested in Patsey Moore and Peter Storm. The latter, as I wrote,
has developed into her "Lightning Conductor." Indeed, in some ways Jack and he are alike: for
you know Jack "Brown-ed" himself in order to conduct me; and I can't help thinking that our
Stormy Petrel isn't as Stormy as he's painted. Now I know him so well, I don't let my mind
dwell on the possibility of his being less worthy of our intense interest than he seems. If
there's anything hidden, it's "buried treasure," such as we hope against hope may exist at
Kidd's Pines.

It's not very long, as the crow flies--I mean the post--since I wrote you last; but I do think
more things can happen in America to the square minute than anywhere else in the world. Especially
at Kidd's Pines! It's like living in a "movie" when they are running the reels off fast. Why,
our reels go so quickly you hardly know what's happened to the "walking men and women", and
it's even difficult to tell the hero from the villain.

That sounds frivolous, but it's serious really. I should be very sad if I weren't hoping that
Jack and Peter Storm and I may be able to combine together and stop things from going all to bits.

At present everything to do with "heart interest" is horrid--except some things that are funny.
And the people they're happening to can't see the fun in them as the outsiders--Jack and I--can.
Naturally there would be heaps of heart interest, all over the place, wherever Patty was; and
that would be all right if Larry weren't simply followed around by it too, the way actor-managers
are by the spotlight. When we were doing our delicious motor run around Long Island, getting
acquainted with the old whalers, and Indian chieftains, and golfers and millionairesses, it
was sweet to see how Pat was unconsciously taming our Stormy Petrel to eat out of her hand.
Even Jack saw it happening, so it must have been pretty obvious, because men never can see
other people's love stories going on under their noses. I knew as well as if he'd told me,
that Peter Storm would rather be torpedoed again than fall in love and settle down. Besides
though none but the brave deserve the fair, few but the rich ever get them. And I suppose the
Stormy One can't be rich, whatever else he may be. Perhaps he was once, and lost all his money;
for he certainly has the look of a banished prince, and the long-distance manner of one, if
he doesn't like anybody or is bored. But strong as he may be in many ways, he could not resist
Pat when he was in a motor car with her day after day. Jack and I would have bet (if that hadn't
been callous) as to whether he'd cave in far enough to propose; and if I had bet I should have
lost. But it wouldn't have been my fault. It would have been Ed Caspian's. Jimmy Payne at his
worst wasn't a patch on him.

How the man managed it I can't conceive (as Pat is of an almost exaggerated and clamlike loyalty),
but she arrived at Kidd's Pines at the end of that short trip engaged to Caspian!

I didn't know till the next day; didn't know that, or the rest. You see, we finished up with
a moonlight run from the gorgeous house I wrote you a postcard about. We were late, for the
Faust-cry in our hearts was communicated to our speed: "Linger awhile: thou art so fair!" Jack
and I didn't stop at Kidd's Pines at all, though they asked us in to have night-blooming sandwiches
and such things. We went straight on to Awepesha and slept the sleep of the moderately just.
Pat had promised to 'phone in the morning, and did. She merely asked how we were, and said
she was well; but I could tell from her voice that something dreadful was the matter. I dashed
over in the car before Jack was dressed, ready with an excuse about a book I wished to borrow,
and was so early that I found myself colliding--nay, telescoping--with the breakfast brigade
of the "hotel."

Pat doesn't break her fast with the paying guest, however: she's an early bird, though her
pet aversion is a worm. I sent a message to her room (the smallest in the house) and was invited
to go up. There was a cloud of cigar smoke in the air, and as Pat doesn't smoke, I deduced
a miraculously matinal call from Larry. That alone was an omen of catastrophe, for Larry is
either up all night or not before 10 A. M. And Pat's face was worse than an omen. I could see
behind her poor little smile of greeting, right into her mind, as if her head had been a watch
with nothing but glass over the works.

"Good gracious, darling, whatever is it?" I gasped.

"Nothing," said she, "except--except that Tom has toothache, and I'm sorry for him."

"That boy has got a regular rush of teeth to the head!" I snapped. "Never mind him. It's you
I'm interested in. Dear baby, your nosebud is quite pink. You've been crying--not for Tom's tooth."

"Maybe I got sunburned motoring," she paltered with me.

"Nonsense! You've a sunproof complexion, as well as waterproof hair. Out with it, darling!"

"You talk like a dentist," Pat put off the evil moment.

"I hope your dentist doesn't call you 'darling.' Mine wouldn't twice. Seriously, my child,
I don't want to intrude; but we're friends, aren't we? and I'm older than you (worse luck!),
so you might let me help. Is it anything to do with housekeeping worries? Has the cook fainted
on the breakfast bacon--or----"

With that--perhaps the picture was too awful!--she burst into tears. "Oh, Larry has promised
Mrs. Shuster he'd marry her, and I must save him," she sobbed.

My dear Mercédes, you could have knocked me down with a dandelion seed! Positively my feet
felt wobbly under me, like standing on poached eggs. Instantly I realized why the Dove of Peace
hadn't wanted to go motoring with us happy, innocent mortals, and why Larry--hypnotized by
Mrs. Shuster's money or his own fatal good nature--had pretended that he must stop at home
to look after his guests. I wished I were as common as mud, and could have gasped out "Gosh!"

I've told you a good deal about Mrs. Shuster, haven't I? She's not a bad sort in her way--but
for Larry, unthinkable! Yet I might have guessed. She's been doing her hair a new way lately,
and powdering her face. For Larry to have to kiss it now would be exactly like kissing a marshmallow.
She's so awkward, too: the least obstacle attracts her like a magnet to stumble over it, and
Larry hates awkwardness. Then her clothes! She could force a fashion to change, simply by following
it far enough; and she's taken to wearing such bright colours it would be more comfortable
to look at her through smoked glasses. Oh, yes, I ought to have guessed!

"Save him?" I echoed. "We'll all save him."

"He says it's too late to back out, now, in honour," wailed Pat. "The Moores have always been
ter-r-ibly honourable."

I thought from what I'd heard of some, not excepting Larry himself, that "terribly" was the
word. I bit my heart and was silent, however, and Patsey went on: "I've done my very best.
I've told him it wasn't necessary. I feel sure (though of course he's too chivalrous to say
so of poor Mrs. Shuster) that he would nevaire marry her except for my good. Oh, dear, how
I wish money were extinct!"

"It is almost, in lots of pockets and other places," I said. "You mean, you think Mr. Moore--er--chose
this way of giving you a dot?"

"What else could it be? And the cruel part is, I have already the dot. I have dotted myself.
I am engaged to Mr. Caspian."

"The devil you are!" I coarsely exclaimed. But it seemed to comfort Pat somehow. She gave herself
to my arms, and cried into my neck the hottest tears I ever felt. They might have boiled out
of a Yellowstone geyser, as a sample.

I soothed the child as well as I could. "Don't cry, dear," I begged. "You didn't on the dock,
you know, when you got the bad news."

"Oh, but we were only ruined then!" she choked. "Now we're both of us nearly married. And if
Larry'd only known about me in time, he needn't have spoiled himself."

I was tempted to assure her that Larry would hardly have taken such a step for any one's sake
except his own. But I knew she'd never quite forgive me for mentioning clay in connection with
her idol's feet. Instead, I repeated that Larry should be rescued; that I'd talk it over with
Jack, and surely, surely we'd think of a plan. Within my heart I vowed, and with far more earnestness,
to rescue Larry's daughter also. The very fact that Pat didn't confess to sacrificing herself,
however, warned me from indiscretion. I repeated that I would consult Jack; and a little snake
of an idea wriggled into my head at the same instant. I let it curl up and get warm. It was
not a viper!

Jack said even worse than I had said. He said "Damn!" But when he says it, my dear, it sounds
the most satisfactory word! I was pleased he took it that way, instead of reminding me it wasn't
our business! I felt encouraged to mention my idea, which was to send a note with our car,
and ask Mr. Storm to lunch at Awepesha. "Three heads are better than two," said I, "though
it mayn't be so with hearts."

"But Storm's still supposed to be Mrs. Shuster's secretary," said Jack. "If they had any differences
after the affair of the telegrams, they've swallowed the hatchet--I mean, buried it. You remember,
Storm stayed at home a whole day doing proofs, in the middle of the trip----"

"Yes, the day Pat also stayed at home--the same home--to write letters!"

"Well, what I was coming to is this: while he remains in Mrs. Shuster's service, whatever his
motive for doing so may be, he's more or less at her beck and call. It suited her to have Storm's
back, and all our backs, turned for a bit; now the ground is safe again under the lady's feet.
She'll want our congratulations, and Storm's stylo, to send out the glad tidings. Ten to one
by this time she's got hold of him, and he's heard the worst----"

"Meaning, not about her and Larry, but Pat and Caspian," I finished Jack's sentence.

"Storm will be at Kidd's Pines for lunch," went on my fellow-conspirator (I took it for granted
he would be that!), "eating Dead Sea Apples."

"I don't believe it!" I contradicted. "Pat would hardly be equal to meeting him, with that
nosebud and those eyes. He'll have escaped into the wilderness--his own backyard, probably.
It's the safest and most retired place there is to have a Berserker rage in. I'll word my note
so that he'll understand we're on the salvage dodge. Then he'll come like an arrow shot from
the bow."

"Car permitting!" said Jack; but he was really sympathetic of course, or he wouldn't have been
Jack.

Peter did come, and it was more complicated than I had thought, leading up to the subject,
because as I've told you, P. S. is as reserved as a Leyden drop--if that's the name for it:
don't you know, it falls into a jar full of something or other and instantly hardens on the
outside, which sets up a great strain, and you have to be careful in touching it for fear it
flies to bits? However, I began with Larry and Mrs. Shuster. He hadn't heard about them, for
he had been advised in a note from his employeress that he needn't come over till she sent
for him (I suppose that was to please Caspian and keep the hated rival out of the way till
the creature could rush back). Peter didn't laugh at all, except just at first when I got off
my mot about the marshmallow kiss. He seemed to think, not about the funny part of such an
entanglement for Larry, but about the horrid part of it for Pat. And then, when I had got him
quite melted and human, I blurted out: "The worst of it is, poor little Patsey has sacrificed
herself to save her father, because she thought he'd sacrificed himself to save her, or something
of that sort."

"What do you mean?" asked Peter, not able to wait till I had finished swallowing heavily.

"She's promised to marry a man she doesn't even like," I said. "Mr. Caspian."

You ought to have seen his face! His lips tightened, and his eyes simply blazed. I almost thought
in another second my Leyden drop would fly to bits! But Peter isn't really that sort of badly
regulated drop.

"Caspian's cursed money," he remarked, when he felt able to speak.

"Yes," I replied. "The poor girl said that she wished money were extinct. I wish his were, anyhow!"

"Stranger things have happened," returned Peter.

"I promised Pat that we'd save Larry, and I promised myself that we'd save her," I went on.
"Jack and I have an exalted idea of your cleverness about conducting cars and affairs in general,
so we decided to ask you to help us conspire. It was really you who made the success of the
venture at Kidd's Pines, by your marvellous conjuring trick of getting Marcel Moncourt to come.
We felt, if you could do a thing like that you could do anything. But my gracious, you look
as if you'd resort to murder! We don't want you to go as far as that."

"I would if necessary," Peter said, "but I think it won't be necessary. We'll scotch our snake,
not kill him."

"The snake doesn't love you," I ventured. "I've sometimes thought he'd do all he could to hurt
you. But--but I suppose he couldn't do anything very troublesome, could he, even if you envenomed
him a little more?"

"He might be able to upset some of my arrangements," said Peter, "but in upsetting them, his
own would be under the avalanche."

I saw by his look that this wasn't just a joke. The Stormy Petrel meant something in particular,
something he didn't intend to explain to Jack or me; and all my old feeling about his mysteriousness
came back. "I should feel guilty," I said, "if by asking you to plot with us, I'd induced you
to mix yourself up in a business which might be annoying."

"However it turns out, it won't be annoying," Peter answered. "Things have gone far beyond
that. If I choose, Mrs. Winston, I can put Caspian out of the running to-morrow. Money has
given him power to use this situation for his own advantage. If he lost it----"

"Heavens, man, if he lost it, don't you see that Patricia Moore's the sort of girl to feel
she owed him allegiance?" broke in Jack, who had so far confined himself to listening. "Any
one who could take Caspian's money away would be giving him the girl."

As I heard this, I realized how very clever Jack is, for neither Peter Storm nor I had thought
of that, though it was absolutely true. He and I would have rushed wildly ahead and broken
every bank Caspian had a cent in, if we could. But we both had the wisdom to realize instantly
that Jack was right about Pat.

"We mustn't do anything serious to begin with," I said. "Let's see if we can't think of something
silly, like the mouse gnawing the net that had caught the lion. Another lion trying to do that
would only have tangled up his teeth. Can you condescend to think of a thoroughly silly and
frivolous trick?"

"I've thought of one," said Peter, "without condescending at all. As you say, we won't begin
by tearing the net; we'll unravel it. What do you think would have happened to you, Mrs. Winston,
before you were married, if you'd had to travel day after day in a motor car with a man you
already disliked?"

"I know what would have happened. It did happen!" Jack and I tossed each other a smile across
the memory of Jimmy Payne. "I got to loathe him. I see what's in your head--don't I?"

"You do. But one of us conspirators would have to be in the car to see how things worked, and
when they'd gone far enough."

"Of course!" I caught him up. "And that one would have to be you. I must stick to my poor wounded
man on our next trip, as on the last."

"Very well, let it be me," said Peter.

I don't think he wanted his eyes to meet mine at that moment, for he hadn't time to push his
soul back behind the glass doors and lock it in. Somehow he couldn't help it, though; and I
knew that he knew that I knew what was in his heart for Patricia Moore. Whatever the wild streak
in his nature was, which had made him vow not to marry and settle down, the flame of love had
burst out with such terrific force the streak was simply melted.

Truly, I hadn't begun this scene with the deliberate intention of being a matchmaker. But I
saw that if the man hadn't loved to desperation, he would never have given in at all. Perhaps
if this unpleasant tangle hadn't arrived he might have taken himself out of Patsey Moore's
life without quite knowing what his had missed--until it was too late.

We went on developing our plan, with occasional suggestions from Jack; and we thought we might
as well try to kill another bird with the same stone, by throwing it in the direction of Larry
and Mrs. S.

Think what it will be for Larry to be engaged to Mrs. Shuster day after day in a motor car,
especially if there's a better looking and younger woman on board!

You see how things are shaping themselves. I hope it makes you look forward a little, little
bit, to my next letter, dear girl!

Your affectionate, anxious, but optimistic

                                                               MOLLY.

XIV

PETER STORM TO JAMES STRICKLAND

                                          The Day before the Battle.

Many thanks for your letter, my dear fellow. It's less pessimistic than I expected, and gives
me the impression that I may regard you as a Prop. I shall follow your advice rigidly, though
I must juggle some of the details, as Caspian has taken advantage of the poor little girl's
love for her father, and practically (from what I understand) blackmailed her into promising
to marry him. Mrs. Winston is in her confidence, though both she and I think there are unexplored
depths. Patricia confesses that, rather than Larry should give her Mrs. Shuster for a step-mamma,
she took the line of least resistance to obtain money. But I have a horrible instinctive idea
that the trouble began at Piping Rock, and that she really sacrificed herself to shield me.
This makes me feel positively hydrophobic toward Caspian; but all the same I'll remember what
you say, and not be "precipitate"--one of your favourite words: follows you about like a dog!

Before doing anything drastic, I'm hoping that my dear girl may see for herself that Caspian
is impossible. Or, if her devotion to Larry is like the Rock of Gibraltar on which waves of
contrary emotions dash themselves in vain, it may be that Larry will do a little mining and
sapping on his own account. Captain and Mrs. Winston and I have formed an alliance offensive
and defensive, particularly the former, against the coalesced forces of Caspian and Shuster.
There has been no talk of my private feelings--bien entendu--but the small nations are to be
protected by our united diplomacy. We're starting off on another expedition planned with a
certain bold audacity. Moore and his fat fiancée are to travel together in Caspian's Wilmot,
conducted by his chauffeur, accompanied by the prettiest, most coquettish Miss Goodrich, and
one of Mrs. Shuster's Peace League Confrères, ex-Senator Collinge, a violently intelligent
man who looks (Mrs. Winston says) like a moth-eaten lion with false teeth.

We hope and expect that Mrs. Shuster will get on Larry's sensitive nerves when at such close
quarters; that desperation combined with natural inclination will drive him to flirt with Idonia
Goodrich, who will enthusiastically respond; that Mrs. Shuster's mortification may drive her
to such vulgar vengeance as will disgust Larry beyond repair; that the lion may not be too
moth-eaten to seize his chance and the lady, and that Pat may then scramble down from the pyre
of self-sacrifice.

This seems a good deal to expect from a three or four days' motoring trip, doesn't it? But
almost anything can happen in automobiles. And I haven't told you yet the rest of our programme.

"Tom, Dick, and Harry" don't count. They're simply "on in the scene," and like the poor, always
with us! They pound through the landscape as before, with their Hippopotamus; and Captain and
Mrs. Winston, who are to be of the party, will take our bride and bridegroom again, a very
appropriate arrangement. But everything hangs upon the Grayles-Grice. After a council of war
with the Winstons, I advised Miss Moore that it would be comparatively safe to have Caspian
conduct. You see, the two engagements are announced (Caspian and Mrs. Shuster saw to that,
without letting a blade of grass grow under their feet!), and so it was easy for me to take
it for granted that Patricia would wish to give the wheel of her car to C. "Of course you'll
want to sit in front," I said humbly. "But if you would still care to have any help I can give,
I'd gladly offer my services. I can perch on one of the fold-up chairs," I went on, "which
will leave plenty of room for any others you like to take, no matter how large (I thought of
the Goodriches). I've had more experience as a mechanic than Mr. Caspian, perhaps, and I might
be useful in emergencies----"

"Oh you would!" broke in the darling, with adorable alacrity. And as far as she was concerned,
the matter was settled. You would have thought, however, that Caspian would be the rock I'd
split on, now that he has a "say" in the affairs of Patricia. But the Winstons and I hadn't
forgotten this chance in our calculations. We expected C. to take a fiendish joy in the prospect
of kicking me when I was down: "putting me into my place" and making love to Miss Moore before
my starting eyes--a great triumph for him after the very different Long Island trip in the
same car with some of the same passengers. Well, we were as right as rain. The yellow dog snapped
at the attractive morsel, which we hope we have poisoned. How will she stand the situation
he is exulting in?

Next time I write I shall know how our strategy works out. I talk of it lightly, but honestly,
Strickland, I'm not laughing on the right side of my mouth. And if it weren't for your advice,
and Molly Winston's conviction that Pat would stick to C. if he were ruined, I shouldn't be
playing about with any such piffling policy as I've just outlined. There'd be a cataclysm for
somebody! I might get involved in it myself--but I'd risk that. It may have to come, anyhow,
of course, so hold yourself prepared, as I do. And meanwhile we mustn't forget where the two
Marcels come in.

          Yours ever,                                THE STORMY PETREL.

(That's what they named me on shipboard, and, by Jingo, it's appropriate now!)

XV

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                               Just Back at Awepesha.

DEAREST MERCÉDES:

Jack says he would be having the time of his life lightning conducting over here (I'm not sure
he expressed it as Americanly as that) if only people would be sensible enough to do what we
want them to do. They do seem so obstinate when they won't! Even dear Patsey, not to speak
of Larry and the Two Unspeakables--but no, I won't let myself go on that subject now: I might
say too much. I'll cool my feelings by telling you about the lovely--or ought-to-have-been-lovely--trip
we have just had. Scenery is far more restful than human nature--other people's human nature
I mean, not Jack's and mine. And Jack says that American country scenery is the most restful
in the world, just as the cities are the most exciting. Clever adjustment of the Law of Contrast!
I'm not sure he isn't right, are you? Surely there aren't such exquisite, laughing, dryad-haunted
woods in Europe, so young and gay and unspoiled looking, as if you had just discovered them
yourself, and nobody else had ever seen them before. I'm falling in love with my own country
all over again, and appreciating it proudly because my much-travelled Jack is so ingenuously
astonished every minute at its striking individuality, its difference from any other part of
the globe he has ever "infested" (his own word!).

Oh yes, every prospect pleases, and only Ed Caspian is vile--though Mrs. Shuster is a good
second, and Pat--but I said I wouldn't mention them, anyhow at first. I'm sure Jack and I were
never so irritating, except perhaps to Aunt Mary. But she was different. One somehow wanted
to irritate her. She was born to be irritated.

Dearest, I'm going to write you a straightforward account of three divine days which would
have been all spotless brightness if it hadn't been for--but no matter!

We (quite a large party in four cars: the Grayles-Grice, the Wilmot, ours, and the Hippopotamus)
started early on a warm morning, not from Long Island but from a New York hotel. We'd been
invited by Mrs. Shuster to a roof-garden dinner in (or on) it the night before, where we'd
been dazzled by an incredible assemblage of gunpowder pearls and dynamite diamonds on the bosoms
of the Ammunition Aristocracy--a wondrous new class of Americans sprung up since the war. Not
one of us wore a jewel, I must tell you, except Mrs. Shuster, who flaunted an ancestral ring
she'd cozened out of poor Larry. (Pat had "forgotten" her searchlight which Caspian made a
special expedition to New York to buy her as a badge of slavery.)

Jack was quite excited about beginning the Hudson River trip in this way, because he's been
so busy discovering Long Island, and it's been so warm, that he kept New York up his sleeve
(sleeves are worn large) until later. He hadn't even seen Riverside Drive I'd boasted of so
much; but he wouldn't be Jack Winston if he didn't know rather more about it than the average
American, including me.

If it were any other Englishman, I couldn't stand his airs of historic erudition about my native
land, but Jack is so human and boyish in his joy of "fagging up things," and so broad-mindedly
pleased that we beat his wrong-headed ancestors in our Revolution, that I don't grudge him
the crumbs he's gathered. Of course, I pretend to have crumbs in my cupboard, too, even when
it's really bare as bone. I say, "Oh, yes, now I remember!" and intelligent-sounding things
like that.

Did you, for instance, ever know that the source of the Hudson--the most important source--is
a little lake in Essex County, with an Indian name which translates into "Tear of the Clouds?"
I didn't, and I'm not certain people ought to probe rivers' pasts any more than they ought
women's. It's their own fault if they find out insignificant beginnings. Fancy saying, "Who
was she?" about a beautiful body of water like the Hudson! Jack is naturally glad that Henry
Hudson was English, not Dutch, as so many people think from his being spelt Hendrik as a rule.
I suppose the Dutch hoped that would be thought, from their tacking on the "k," for they were
so jealous of each other, the Hollanders and the Puritans, in the days of the early un-settlers.

Frightfully geologic things seem to have happened and subsided under the Hudson, making it
navigable all the way; otherwise New York City wouldn't be the greatest on the American continent.
Jack was talking to me about this all along Riverside Drive, not that it would have mattered
much, because New Yorkers could have said it was the greatest to Chicago people just the same.
I didn't dare make this remark to Jack, however, because he was being thrilled with thoughts
of the Revolution and I wanted to encourage him in those. I hoped he wouldn't know about Fort
Washington being the place of the fight that caused General Washington to give up Manhattan
Island to his--Jack's--horrid ancestors; but he did know, and about the sloops and brigs and
other things which we foxy little Americans had sunk there to keep the British ships from getting
farther up the river. You can get tremendously excited about this Revolution business when
you're on the spot, you see, though you and I have lived so much in England where most people
treat it as a "brush" less important than the Boer War. And when you are here, surrounded with
all the noisy progress and skyscraping greatness of our country, it is wonderful to think how
a few brave men, determined to have their rights, in spite of desperate odds, made this vast
difference in the world.

I was secretly longing to know what Jack would think of the dear Palisades, which seem so wonderful
to us, and give us more of a feeling, somehow, than the highest mountains of Europe, Africa,
or Asia. But he was most satisfactory about them. He didn't say much. He just gazed, which
was better; and they were looking their grandest that day, like the walls of castles turned
into mountains. And there were strange lights and shadows in the water which gave a magical,
enchanted effect. There were thunderous violet clouds in the sky, with shafts of sunshine pouring
through; and Jack and I discovered, deep down in the river, marvellous treasures of the enchanted
castles: white marble seats and statues, and golden vases, and drowned peacocks, with spread
purple tails floating under the crystal roof which we call the surface of the river.

It does annoy me when Europeans patronize us about being a new country, doesn't it you? The
Palisades, it seems, boiled up and took shape as a wall of cliff thirty million years ago,
or maybe more, in the Triassic period. What can you get anywhere older than that? And Europe
would give a cathedral or two out of her jewel-box to look young as long as America does!

We've got a queer old manuscript at Awepesha, which Jack has ferreted out of obscurity, telling
the Indian legends of the Hudson River. They are as beautiful as anything from the ancient
Sanscrit, and the Indians who lived on the Palisades' green tops, or along the shores beneath--the
Hackensack, and Tappan Indians and others who have given their names to river places--had some
of the best legends of all. I love the Woman of the Mountains (young and lovely, not old, as
some people say) who had done noble service for the Great Spirit: as reward she had the privilege
of cutting out a new silver moon every month with her magic shears, and when it was shrinking
into uselessness, to snip what was left into little stars--as Juliet wanted done with Romeo!
She lived in a wonderful purple cave, not in the Palisades, but hidden in the Catskills; and
from its door, which no one could find, she sent forth Day and Night alternately. Also, in
immense jars of porphyry and gold, she kept sunshine and storm, to let out when she thought
best. Perhaps those purple splashes and golden gleams we saw under the water were her storm
and sun jars, which floated out of the cave and buried themselves in the sand poured down by
Sandy Hook!

To jump from the Indian legends to the Dutch, I do trust the story of Spuyten Duyvil is true.
It must be, because it's too good not to be true. Do you remember it's told in dear Washington
Irving's "Knickerbocker History of New York?"--the most amusing history book ever written,
I should think. The man--one of Peter Stuyvesant's men, I fancy--was hurrying to warn the farmers
that the Beastly British were coming, and when there was no bridge by which he could cross
the stream he vowed he'd do the trick "in spuyt den duyvil." The history says he was drowned
in the fierce waters, but I can't believe that part. I think his jealous rival--of course he
had one--put that tale about. Of course he got across and warned the farmers, as he deserved
to do for defying the devil.

I remember when I used to be at boarding-school in New York, and in spring we were taken little
Saturday trips when we were good, the very name of "Yonkers" meant deadly suburban dullness
to me. I only wanted to get past the place. But to motor through with Jack makes all the difference,
even though by the time we reached there I was bristling with rage at sight of the doings of
Caspian in the Grayles-Grice. We were trailing in the rear, so the troublous events and turbid
emotions of the cars ahead were visible to us, as if they had been uncovered saucepans boiling
over on a redhot stove. Fancy that Caspian creature practically ordering Storm out to buy newspapers,
as if he were a chauffeur! But Jack consoled me: "Before you explode, stop and think what would
have been the effect on you if Jimmy Payne had done that with poor old Brown."

Of course, I should have ached to box Jimmy's ears, and all my loyalty would have flowed out
in waves to Brown; so perhaps Pat--but to go back to Yonkers. It makes the name sound less
unsympathetic and like a frog's croak to recall that it was given when the Yonk Heer Vredryck
Flypse, or Philipse (he who called New York "a barren island"), the richest and most important
man of his day, from New York to Tarrytown, built one of his manor houses there. It's still
there, by the way, and lots of other historic things, if one bothers to stop and dig them up,
instead of dashing through with an admiring glance at the jolly modern houses, more conspicuous
than the old.

We had a full day before us, what with worshipping at Washington Irving's shrine, and sighing
over Sing Sing, and arriving at West Point in time for dress parade and to hear the sunset
gun. So we flew fast through lovely Hastings-on-Hudson, and Irvington, over a silk-smooth surface,
under an adorable avenue of trees which perhaps remembered the Revolution; past exquisite places
where only exquisite people ought to live, to Sleepy Hollow and Tarrytown. It seems sacrilege
to arrive in autos and a hurry at a town with a name so deliciously lazy, to say nothing of
its associations. But one can't help being modern!

I wonder if the comfortable Dutch settlers who pottered along this old Albany Post Road ever
dreamed nightmare dreams of creatures like us, tearing in strange machines over surfaces magnificently
bricked or oiled, and covering in one day distances to which they would prayerfully have devoted
weeks? Probably they would have pitied and despised rather than envied us; and maybe they'd
have been right: for does the extra ozone and the thrill of speed quite make up for things
missed or half seen? Still, impressions are wonderful; and I shan't forget the bluebell colour
of distant hills, the silver-gray of rocks, and the diamond-dazzle of water glimpsed between
feathery tree branches, or the jewelled gleam of wild flowers scattered by the roadside, and
the pale flame of mulleins straight and tall as lighted candles in the grass.

Isn't it a sweet thing for the world that there should have been men who loved making the rock-bound
fields of history blossom with delicate flowers, just as monks of ancient days illumined quite
dull texts?--men like Washington Irving, for instance.

I always loved Washington Irving, and so I'm glad to say did Jack; but he came back to life
and actually walked with us that day. Perhaps it sounds impudent and conceited to say this,
but I don't mean it so, and if he knew how humble and happy we felt as we came under his spell,
I do think he wouldn't have snubbed us. No, he would never have snubbed any one! He was much
too human, and understanding. He wouldn't scornfully have called us "tourists," but would have
realized that we were worshippers at a shrine. Of course I don't include Ed Caspian or Mrs.
Shuster! C., when the time came to leave our cars outside the with-difficulty-found gates of
Sunnyside, put on the airs of a grand seigneur who knows all that is to be known already. He
said (so Peter told us later): "It's not much of a place; quite a small house, not worth getting
out for." And he actually proposed that Patty should sit in the car with him while the others
explored! Pat wasn't "taking any." She jumped out, and rather than see her walk away with Peter,
C. had to follow. As for Mrs. Shuster, she can't bear to walk if there's a chance of sitting
still, especially since she's taken to these fearfully tall-heeled, new-fashioned, high-necked
boots which make our feet look like the hoofs of rather chic cows: incredible heels like the
Venetian beauties used to wear. She, like Caspian, reminded her beloved of the blessing for
those who only stand (sit!) and wait. But Larry said he'd something important to tell Pat;
then strolled with Idonia Goodrich and never went near his daughter. Mrs. Shuster was reduced
to her peace partner; and, oh, you can't think what she looks like when she pouts!

We had to thank Larry for an open sesame to the doors of Sunnyside, however; for he has some
distant acquaintance with the grand-nephew of Washington Irving who has inherited the quaint,
delightful house with its red gables and extraordinarily intelligent-looking windows. Anybody
is allowed to peep inside the gates of the old place, but of course the house is only for friends
or acquaintances, or it would be overrun and the family would have to take to the cellar. Pat
had somehow forced Larry to write and ask permission, for he never puts pen to paper if he
can help it! It looks at least as old as the seventeenth century, but only a nucleus of the
rambling, many-windowed, creeper-clad mansion is really old. There's a romance about that part,
by the way, but perhaps you know it better than I do.

Once upon a time, when Washington Irving was very young, he visited the Pauldings in a house
swept away now. He used to take a boat and row all alone, to think thoughts and dream dreams
under the willow trees that even then roofed the brook in Sunnyside glen. He could see a tiny
house called "Wolfert's Roost," and said to himself, "If I could live here and have that for
mine I should be perfectly happy."

It didn't seem then as if his wish could possibly come true, but he always kept it in his heart,
and years later, after he had lived in London and been American Minister in Madrid, he came
back to his first love, with money he had been saving up, to make it his own. He added and
added again to the house, but contrived to give it the lovely look of having just grown up
anyhow, as trees and flowers grow. That's partly because of its cloaks and muffs and boas of
trumpet-creeper and ivy. It has the look, too, even now, of being miles from anywhere--except
the river and the creek, which sing the same song they sang long ago, under the trees. The
trees of Sunnyside are somehow curiously individual, Jack and I thought, as if they knew the
historic reputation they had to live up to, and were gently proud of it. There are trees graceful
as ladies dancing a minuet, spreading out their green brocade skirts for a deep curtsey; trees
as spicily perfumed as the pouncet boxes of those same ladies; thoughtful trees whose one mission
in life is to give deep shade under showering branches, and gay trees like sieves for sunshine.
Jack and I wandered among them and then gazed out upon them, as Washington Irving must often
have gazed (in search of new inspiration), through the small square panes of his study windows.

His descendants have changed nothing there, in that dear little modest nest for a genius! It's
close to the front door, as you go in from the deep porch, at the right-hand side of a fascinating
corridor. Looking down that corridor you see a vista of rooms, delightful as rooms in dreams.
They are furnished, but not crowded, with old and exquisite things--things which must have
been intimate friends of the family for generations; and, oh, how much more attractive are
the rooms than any royal suites I've seen in palaces!

In the study (I feel sure he called it that, not library) the master of long ago might have
walked a moment ago, out into the garden, so entirely does the room seem impressed with his
personality. There are his books, his manuscripts, his pens; his desk, and his writing-chair
drawn up to it; his little table; the charming old prints he loved, given to him and signed
by friends whose names are famous; pictures of the house when it was "Wolfert's Roost," and
when it had grown larger. The green and golden light streaming through the windows, front and
side, seems just the sort of light that Washington Irving would have loved to write in. He
made it greener and more inspiring by bringing from Melrose Abbey slips of the ivy which now
curtains the windows; and in the green-gold light he wrote his "Life of Washington" and many
other things which we all love.

Coming out of the study when we were ready to go away, I looked through the open door of a
beautiful room across the corridor, straight into an old-fashioned mirror. Never was a mirror
so becoming. I felt as if I were seeing my own portrait painted by Romney; and behind me for
an instant I seemed to catch a fleeting glimpse of another face, as though a man stood on the
study threshold, smiling to me a kind good-bye. I adore my own imagination. After Jack, it
is my best and dearest chum!

I think even if one didn't know that thrilling things had happened in Tarrytown and Sleepy
Hollow (heavenly names!) in old days, one would somehow feel it. What's the use of one's subconscious
self if it doesn't nudge one's subjective self and whisper that it was born knowing? Why, I
could see Sir Vredryck Flypse and his family streaming out of the old Dutch church, as gorgeous
in their Sunday best as the church was simple; the ladies' stomachers embroidered with silver
and seed pearls, their short, stiff brocade skirts swinging to show their silk stockings and
high-heeled shoes, much as ours do now; the men taking a sly pinch of snuff, and brushing it
hastily off their blue or gray coats; tie-wigs, silver buttons, and knee breeches glittering
in the sunshine of such a day as this, away back in sixteen hundred and something. I can see
neat, consciously aristocratic and good Dominie Mutzelius or Dominie Ritzema in irreproachable
black, with a touch of white, going as guest to Sunday dinner at Philipsburg Manor, after the
"great people" had listened to his eloquence, seated in their cushioned "boxes" in the seven-windowed
church. There are only six windows now; but in those days you had to keep your window and weather
eye open, even during the dominie's discourse, for Indians might take a fancy to scalp the
congregation if it could be taken unawares. Luckily the lord of the manor, and his friends,
and the sturdy farmers with their families, were not to be caught napping, even if the sermon
were dull and the weather hot. Besides, in case of emergency, they could turn their church
into a fort at a few minutes' notice. The walls were nearly three feet thick; the seven windows
were barred with iron, and so high up that, if the Indians wanted to peep, they had to climb
on each other's shoulders. As for the doors, they could hardly be knocked in with a battering
ram; so you had no excuse to stop at home on Sunday, even in "Indian Summer." Of course we
went to see the grave where all that is mortal of Washington Irving lies in the Sleepy Hollow
cemetery; and the famous bridge--or, rather, the new edition of it built by William Rockefeller.

Do you remember that Major Andre was taken on the Albany Post Road at Tarrytown on his way
to New York, with dispatches from the traitor Benedict Arnold hidden in his stockings? I've
always had a sneaking sympathy with Andre, because he was gallant and young and good looking,
but Tarrytown isn't the place, I find, in which to express any such sentimental feeling. He
is still the villain of the piece there, a mere spy, travelling in disguise, a treacherous
wretch who long and stealthily worked to corrupt a hitherto honourable general. He is the villain,
and David Williams, John Paulding, and Isaac Van Waart, the scouting militiamen who took and
searched him, are the heroes of that drama of 1780. Tarrytown people are delighted to this
day that Andre was hanged, and they love the monument to his captors who wouldn't be bribed
by horse, or watch, or money. I suppose if Andre hadn't offered those bribes, or said he belonged
to the "Southern party," they might never have thought of his stockings, he would have got
safely to the waiting ship, and on to New York; and Benedict Arnold would have surrendered
West Point to the British!

Heaps of other exciting things helped to make Tarrytown historic: an Indian massacre, a big
battle in the Revolution, Major Hunt's "bag of British soldiers at Van Tassel's Tavern when
he won fame by his shout, 'Gentlemen, clubs are trumps!'" and so on. But we took even more
interest in the old legends of Spook Rock, and Andre's ghost and Cuffy's Prophecy and the Flying
Dutchman, who of course tacks back and forth across the Tappan Zee. Such things are so much
more real than facts! Besides, we had to "get on--get on!" that war cry of motoring men.

We did get on, along the smooth brick road to Ossining, which is really Sing Sing, you know
(or ought to, if you don't), only Ossining is the old Indian name, so they took it back to
escape the blight. It's such a pretty town that it would have been a shame to associate it
only with the state prison, whose high gray walls are the only grim thing in the landscape.
It was for the sake of staring at them, though, and shivering down our spines that we took
the detour to Ossining. When we had shivered enough we turned back to Tarrytown and drove our
motors like docile cattle on board a steam ferryboat which took us across the river to Nyack,
the dearest, quaintest of little Dutch towns. It looks as lazy as, and more obstinately old-fashioned
than, Tarrytown, though Tarrytown is far more important and impressive.

There's a colony of frame houses in Nyack which makes you feel you've suddenly tripped and
stumbled out of the twentieth century back into the early nineteenth; and we lunched in a charming
little hotel that gave us things to eat equal to any restaurant in New York.

We had a divine run from Nyack, through a fairy forest, with Hook Mountain in sight and the
Ramapo Hills on the horizon. Hook Mountain glowed a bright rose colour wherever its green cloak
was torn; and when we came into sudden sight of the river there was a magical effect: a veil
of silver mist, with boats big and little moving behind it, like white swans. We had woods
all the way to Rockland Lake, where the great icehouses loomed like queer castles, until we
ran down to lake-level and lost the illusion. Then we turned in the direction of Haverstraw,
going through the nice old-fashioned village of Congers. The hills and tiny valleys were as
gay and pretty as the summer day! We could hardly realize that we weren't very far from New
York, it all seemed such lovely lost country, private and purposely hidden, as if strangers
had no right to be there.

Soon the gay little hills were playing they were mountains, and almost making us believe that
they really were. The roadsides were like rock gardens, spangled pink and gold and blue. Far
below lay the river, but it looked vast enough to be a wide lake; and always the "surface"
was so perfect we had the sensations of flying. At Haverstraw we were by the river, and even
the brick-fields contrived to take on a gorgeous, glittering colour in the afternoon sun. Stony
Point, a high rocky promontory just above, is the place where "Mad Anthony Wayne" stormed the
fortress thought to be impregnable. The British called it "Little Gibraltar." Jack had been
looking out for that and the ruins of the old fort, because daredevil Wayne is quite one of
his heroes. The whole peninsula here is a public park, so no wonder everything is beautifully kept!

I think we got lost after this, owing to Ed Caspian, who led the procession and was sure he
knew the way. However, we reached West Point somehow, after two or three wrong but delicious
detours, returning on our own tracks each time. Jack and I didn't care, but we could see the
back of Mrs. Shuster's head sulking itself almost off, and Patsey's hat looking careworn and
sad. It must have been wretched for her, seeing all these heavenly things with nobody except
Ed Caspian to say "Oh!" to: flowery meadows, weeping willows like waving fountains of silver,
cedars stalking among them like tall black monks, dark bulks of near mountains, blue ghosts
of far ones; ferns and wild flowers sprouting from every rock; here and there a shining streak
of waterfall. What matter if we did go wrong, and risk missing West Point to reach Tuxedo,
instead of saving the latter till next day? We spared ourselves that mistake, and came back
to the right road after twice passing a glorified log cabin of an inn all balconies and rich
brown wood on a stone foundation. Mountains seemed to reach toward each other across the shining
river, and then to open out into a long corridor, dark walled and paved with silver. There
was a lake with an island and a pavilion: Iona Island--too beautiful to pass as we did pass;
a bridge over a steep rocky gorge, and a river-glimpse mysterious as the backgrounds of old
Italian pictures. But we turned away from it into woods--deep forests of cedars fragrant as
smoking incense, and at last--rather late because of side wanderings--we came to Highland Falls.

I remember your telling me that your first love was a West Point cadet, who proposed to you
on your sixteenth birthday in "Flirtation Walk." Lucky you! But this was my first glimpse of
the place as we drove through gates from Highland Falls into the Government Reservation. We
meant to arrive, shed the dust at our hotel, and then saunter forth for dress parade, but instead
of that we had to see the great sight of the day sitting in our motors. The poor Hippopotamus
did look antediluvian among all the smart cars and carriages assembled! But the rest of us
weren't so bad, even after a day's run, and, anyhow, we had no time to think of ourselves,
there was too much else to think of.

I wonder if the place has changed much since that sixteenth birthday of my Mercédes? Of course
it's only a very few years ago! Not being Aunt Mary, I won't make any remark about the number.
But if you haven't quite forgotten that first love, doesn't it make your heart beat to think
of those great terraced, castellated buildings of gray stone massed against the cliffsides
above the sparkling river, almost Walhalla-like in grandeur, of the gracious elms and the prim
soldierly barracks draped with ivy, of the vast parade ground and the wonderful grouping of
mountains whose shapes lie reflected far down under the crystal water, Cro' Nest, haunted by
the "Culprit Fay," and Storm King; and little Constitution Island which tried its best to stop
the British ships.

I wish a cadet had fallen in love with me! I wish one would do it now! I adored them all as
I sat in the motor watching the ranks of white-clad figures moving to music and looking, in
the late sunshine against their green background, like hundreds of marble statues come alive.
When they stood to "attention" they were like snow men. Oh, and what music it was, to which
they moved! Jack said there couldn't be a scene of its kind half so fine and picturesque anywhere
else in the world. I felt quite proud to have been born an American as I looked at it, and
so, judging from their expressions, did crowds of pretty girls who gazed adoringly at all those
soldiers in the making. It worried me a little, just when the music was at its noblest, that
a man in a motor char-à-bancs or something huge and touristy should be telling his victims
how West Point had been "the key to the Hudson," and what a fatal blow would have been dealt
to hopes of independence if Benedict Arnold could have handed it over to the British. I thought
he glared at Jack as he delivered this lecture, guessing perhaps by the shape of his particularly
nice nose that he's a Britisher. But just then the sunset gun was fired, echoing again and
again among the mountains. All the female victims squeaked and stopped their ears, and the
man jumped, so that Jack was saved.

You, who have happy memories of Flirtation Walk, will pity Pat when I tell you that her sensitive
conscience made her consent to walk there with Ed Caspian after dinner, Jack and Peter Storm
and I following at a respectful distance. Peter could hardly bear it. I suppose the moonlight
on the water glinting far under the high cliff walk and the bitter-sweet scent of the ferns
went to his head. He forgot that we'd all planned together this way of disgusting Pat with
what she thought her duty--throwing her so constantly with Caspian that she'd find out all
his faults. But when Peter was leading up to some excuse for joining the pair in front, Jack
reminded him that if ever the medicine could be beneficial to the poor little patient it would
be in such a scene, and on such a night made for love and happiness.

Mrs. Shuster and Larry and Idonia were walking, too. I believe Larry had intended to take Idonia
alone, having advised Lily to rest, but Lily passionately refused to rest. Fancy her on Flirtation
Walk!

West Point is a witching place to spend a night in, even though a dance--or a "hop," or whatever
they call it--is going on, and you're not invited!

Next morning, after lingering again at Battle Point to drink in as lovely a view as the world
can give, we dashed off once more. It was just the hour of "Guard mount," and the cadets looked
too fascinating. The girls gazed at them as if they were the heroes of a hundred battles, and
so, in a way, they were and are: at least, as West Pointers they're heirs to those who fought
a hundred battles. Jack read in some book that out of sixty battles in the Civil War fifty-six
had for commanders men from West Point--and not all on one side! Of course, they fought in
the old Mexican War as well, for West Point has been a training school ever since 1794. That
seems a long time in America!

We had a gorgeous run to Tuxedo--a road that might make Europe jealous--among mountains of
the Catskill family, too important and beautiful, I thought, to dismiss as foothills. What
a pity Rip Van Winkle spent all his twenty years asleep in one place! I should have walked
in my sleep, and changed my bed from mountain to mountain every night or so. Oh, I forgot to
tell you, at West Point I heard a new legend of the Catskills. At least, it's so old that it's
as good as new. Once when the Indians were just comfortably beginning to feel at home after
one of those interrupting Ice Ages, there lived a fearful giant with a wife and children as
terrible as himself. The only things they cared to eat were Indian babies; and after this horrid
family had been vainly admonished for their ways by the Great Spirit they were suddenly, in
the midst of a meal, turned into stone. Being so big, they became mountains, and as some tried
to run away and escape the others' fate, they grouped themselves in a chain along the riverside.
I don't quite believe this story, though! I'd rather think that a good family of giants asked
the Great Spirit to let them become beautiful mountains when they died, and so be remembered
lovingly forever, while the world lasts.

The Ramapo Valley is a dream of loveliness all the way, with its lakes like wide-open blue
eyes of dryads, and its laced silver ribbon of river. Larry has a friend at court--I mean Tuxedo
Park; so he was again useful as well as ornamental--a rare thing for him! We sailed in at the
queer gates as confidently as if we owned a hundred acres of land and a lake inside the magic
circle. Only the Hippopotamus balked. He had tire trouble just inside the entrance to Paradise;
but I think he could have crawled in if Tom, Dick, and Harry had urged him a little. They,
poor boys, are under a cloud since Pat's engagement was announced, and are only going on as
a sort of mute protest against its irrevocability. If it were any one else except Caspian--Peter
Storm, for instance--they would bravely retire from the field with congratulations for the
victor, but they have a vague idea in their nice heads that Pat isn't happy and may have to
be rescued when the time comes, but they must have felt that nothing so violent could happen
in a place as "exclusive" as Tuxedo Park. By the way, don't you hate the expression "exclusive"
in connection with society? I do think it quite naïvely snobbish, not to say un-Christian!
How much more heart-warming to speak of an inclusive place or entertainment! However, we humans
haven't mounted to that height yet; and "exclusive" being not only the word but the feeling
at Tuxedo, the Boys felt themselves and the Hippopotamus unsuited to the occasion. Consequently
they broke down outside the sacred precincts, and we glided past the gray-stone, red-gabled
portals while they grouped round a tire to hide the fact that it was flat.

We spent the morning with Larry's friend for our guide, seeing one grand private place after
another. His own is almost the grandest of all, and is on a lake fringed with feathery trees
which weave a gold-green network across the blue. The golf course is perfectly beautiful, and
made me for the first time want to learn. I never have, because it seems to me a middle-aged,
pottering game; and I've always so hated staying at country houses with golf lovers who talk
of nothing else. Anyhow, I don't want to have a golf complexion until I'm forced to be over
twenty-six.

*

The gardens of the Tuxedo Park dwellers are really bits of Eden, although you would have to
bite a bit out of the apple before you could be sophisticated enough to make them grow like
that. We lunched with Larry's friend, and should have enjoyed the feast immensely if Ed Caspian
hadn't put on multimillionaire airs, and snubbed Peter Storm at the table. Pat turned crimson,
and I hoped that good might come out of evil--that she might break off with the rude wretch
as a punishment. Peter behaved so well that he deserved such a reward. Jack and I were proud
of him! But the engagement survived the earthquake, as an ugly house of "reinforced" cement
will stand when medieval castles fall. I found out afterward why, and I'll tell you presently.
As for Mrs. Shuster, I was rather sorry for her. She sat opposite Larry and beside her incarnate
Peace Tract, Larry being at his hostess's left hand with Idonia Goodrich on his other side.
The hostess is a beauty, so is Idonia, so you may well imagine that Larry would have forgotten
Lily's existence if she hadn't frequently reminded him of it by screaming his Christian name
across banks of pansies and orchids. J. and I hoped that jerry-built betrothal might crumble
in consequence, as Larry's fastidiousness is his most prominent feature. But no! it also stood;
and I will tell you the reason when I tell you about Pat.

Things were going on normally--and hatefully--when we bade Tuxedo Park farewell, and found
the Boys eating sausages and drinking ginger-beer. We sailed about seeing scenery for part
of the afternoon--scenery of the Ramapo Valley and round Suffern, I mean--and falling more
and more in love with the Ramapo River. It has cataracts and wide-open spaces; secret, hidden
mysteries; Revolution history, and enough beauty and charm of every sort to suffice three rivers
instead of one. But we'd set our hearts on spending the night at the Delaware Water Gap, so
we had to rush on in that irritating way which becomes a habit hard to break. It's an obsession
with even the least offensive motorists--like Jack and me!

There can't be sweeter country anywhere than this, which I'm trying to lure you to come and
see when you and Monty can take your second honeymoon, as we are doing; but it has no look
of being undiscovered like some we saw the day before. Rich people, but luckily people of taste,
know all about that cup of crystal, Pompton Lake, the sweet singing Wanaqua River, and lovely
Pequannock Park. They have made homes for themselves, quite wonderful in beauty, and never
pretentious; never a staring house or grotesquely expensive gates to shock the dear little
childlike mountains and shady river. Along the winding roads, where trees trailed shadows like
dragging masses of torn Spanish lace, there were fine stone walls draped with woodbine, and
among the folding hills were orchards like great flower-beds, surrounding the most lovable
and livable houses. Every five minutes we would come to a picture which might have been "composed"
by an artist: a pond reflecting a quaint little church with two guardian grandfather trees,
and a funny old "gig" with a yellow horse, waiting for some one we should never see; an ancient
white house born to make a background for cedars far more ancient; a lake with shining surface
half hidden under red water-weeds like coral necklaces broken and scattered on a silver salver.
Oh, and I mustn't forget the funny fire-alarms in front of isolated houses! A big thing like
a split iron ring with a hammer to strike it. The ring vibrates better if it's split; and you
could see nothing quainter in Holland. There was a very odd monument, too, which I loved. I
think it was in the nice, wide-streeted village of Pompton. It might have been a Titan helmet
smashed by a bomb, and I should have loved to stay and find out all about it!

We'd come into northern New Jersey at Oakland, so no wonder we saw splendid cedars, for New
Jersey has lots of cedars and heaps of history, and is proud of both. I hadn't realized that
it would be such a beautiful state of forest-clad hills, lakes and rivers that mingle so you
can't tell where they begin or end, and villages walled by woods and tied together by silver
ribbons of river or brook. This is the northern part I'm talking about; the south is flat,
where it becomes seacoast.

Along bowery roads to Stockholm, Franklin, Lafayette we passed (later in the year the goldenrod
must be like a sunburst there!), and motors, big and little, weave their way democratically
among lazy-looking, old-fashioned chaises and slender "buggies." The "going" was always good,
and there was some delicious "coasting" down one long, long hill almost like a mountainside.
How Jack loved the cozy farmhouses and red barns which were so becoming to the black and white
cattle grazing in the valleys; and the slender waving corn like fairy dancers in jewelled head-dresses!
Some of the barns were so big, the houses they belonged to reminded him of little mothers who
had produced giant children. The homelike effect of all these gentle hills and flowery valleys
and floating blue mist wreaths appealed curiously to the heart, like minor music; yet there
were grand things, too: here and there a noble limestone cliff; a gloomy wood of hemlocks where
it seemed anything might happen; a mossy dark ravine, as at Branchville; and all the large
lakes or "ponds," so unexpected each time when you come in sight of them.

After a dear little town called Layton (with a river singing it to sleep) we turned off to
the right for Dingman's Ferry, and then felt we were really on the way to the Delaware Water
Gap. We had come to the Delaware River! From the top of a very high hill we saw it--the river,
I mean; and, oh, but it looked worthy of its guardian mountains! Winding and wonderful it was
in beauty as we dropped into its deep, intimate valley, down the tremendous slope. We were
so excited we hardly knew the road was bad! And after all there was no old ferry answering
to the name of "Dingman," but a wide bridge in its place. On the other side was Pennsylvania,
with a barred gate to keep you out of it until you had handed over forty cents to a wee boy
who "held us up" and firmly said, "You've got to pay!" He lived in a pet of a house, where
I should love to live, myself (with Jack), and the entrance to the neighbour state was so fine
as to seem dramatic.

The smooth tarred road was a relief, too, after a few hard bumps: a lovely tree-shadowed road
past a big yellow-painted hotel; past a delightful village high above the river bed, where
a great forest made a dark, perfumed screen between our eyes and the bright glitter of water.
So we dipped down by and by to a house with a garden full of flowers, and a forest of its own
with the river sparkling through it. The hemlocks gave out a perfume as if a box of spices
had been newly opened; and when we saw that the house was a hotel and restaurant we simply
had to stop for tea. To our surprise and joy we found that the man who kept the place was a
Frenchman--an Alsatian named Schanno; and everything he gave us was so delicious we might have
been at Ciro's, in Paris or Monte Carlo!

Almost, it would have been a relief, said Jack, to find the scenery less beautiful, so as to
have a diminuendo and a crescendo--the crescendo to be our goal of that day, the Water Gap.
But it would keep on being so lovely, we could scarcely say when it was just good, when better,
or when best. We had a gray road, glossy as a beaver's back, to travel on toward the Gap; a
valley road with small mountains lifting curly dark heads in every direction to gaze down on
us out of their glistening, perfumed foot-bath of evening mist. The villages we passed had
pretty, sophisticated-looking new houses for "summer people"; here and there was a charming
country inn with the air of being famous. At Bushkill (nice name!) the brown river forked,
in a coquettish, laughing way shaking hands with itself and parting in the woods. Nearby was
a glorious waterfall among charming hills which seemed to have been roused by the music of
the cataract, and sat up with their hair standing all on end.

Four or five miles from the great Water Gap we began to see the formation which gives that
name. The mountains seem cleft in twain. It's a marvellous effect--startling! It took my breath
away, as if I had seen a great window suddenly flung wide open in the sky. Truly, that's not
an exaggeration of the sunset-wonder of the Delaware Water Gap! The hills were a deep, almost
sullen purple that evening, the purple of darkest hyacinths. They made a high wall for the
valley; then, in an instant, the wall was gone, as if hewed down with a firm, straight stroke,
and there was that immense open window of golden light. Why, it was worth crossing the ocean
to see as we saw it then! And we had come through such winding ways of hill and valley that
it felt as if this were the end of the earth, the jumping-off place into a sea of jewelled
colour. Yet they say it's only three or four hours in a fast train from New York! I don't want
to believe that, and I shall never know by experience, for I shan't be so sacrilegious as to
take a train while motors run on roads and aeroplanes skim through clouds.

The town where the hotels and cottages are is as gay a little fairyland among the mountains
as I used to think Baden-Baden or Carlsbad; just such maddeningly attractive little shops and
bright gardens and beautifully grouped trees. We went on to a hotel in the woods, a hotel which
seemed all veranda and view--a view our spirits drank in, in deep, unforgettable draughts:
I mean, Jack's and mine drank. They were the only well-regulated, calm spirits in the whole
procession, except the Goodriches, who are "always merry and bright."

When darkness fell in a shimmering blue curtain shot with silver, we found that the hotel had
other things besides those two "Vs" which were all we had thought of at first: very nice, pleasant
things, and Jack and I decided that it wouldn't be wrong or selfish to the war, or each other,
to let ourselves feel perfectly happy for a few serene hours. But it wasn't to be! Far from
it--Fate has such a rude way of ignoring my plans and substituting her own, which are seldom
a patch on mine!

I "got myself up to kill" for dinner, and thought Pat intended to do the same. Being made in
the Creator's image, I like to look as nice as I can, to do Him credit, even when travelling,
especially in large hotels full of other women. But Pat didn't appear. Neither did Larry. My
eyes and Jack's conspired across the table. "Good!" we thought. "The Plot works!"

