Near the bottom of the village there is a large ruined building, now used as a stable by the
inhabitants. The interior is divided into a nave and two side-aisles by rows of square pillars,
from which spring pointed arches. The door-way is at the side, and is Gothic, with a dash of
Saracenic in the ornamental mouldings above it. The large window at the extremity of the nave
is remarkable for having round arches, which circumstance, together with the traces of arabesque
painted ornaments on the columns, led me to think it might have been a mosque; but Dr. Robinson,
who is now here, considers it a Christian church, of the time of the Crusaders. The village
of Aboo 'l Ghosh is said to be the site of the birth-place of the Prophet Jeremiah, and I can
well imagine it to have been the case. The aspect of the mountain-country to the east and north-east
would explain the savage dreariness of his lamentations. The whole valley in which the village
stands, as well as another which joins it on the east, is most assiduously cultivated. The
stony mountain sides are wrought into terraces, where, in spite of soil which resembles an
American turnpike, patches of wheat are growing luxuriantly, and olive trees, centuries old,
hold on to the rocks with a clutch as hard and bony as the hand of Death. In the bed of the
valley the fig tree thrives, and sometimes the vine and fig grow together, forming the patriarchal
arbor of shade familiar to us all. The shoots of the tree are still young and green, but the
blossoms of the grape do not yet give forth their goodly savor. I did not hear the voice of
the turtle, but a nightingale sang in the briery thickets by the brook side, as we passed along.

Climbing out of this valley, we descended by a stony staircase, as rugged as the Ladder of
Tyre, into the Wady Beit-Hanineh. Here were gardens of oranges in blossom, with orchards of
quince and apple, overgrown with vines, and the fragrant hawthorn tree, snowy with its bloom.
A stone bridge, the only one on the road, crosses the dry bed of a winter stream, and, looking
up the glen, I saw the Arab village of Kulonieh, at the entrance of the valley of Elah, glorious
with the memories of the shepherd-boy, David. Our road turned off to the right, and commenced
ascending a long, dry glen between mountains which grew more sterile the further we went. It
was nearly two hours past noon, the sun fiercely hot, and our horses were nigh jaded out with
the rough road and our impatient spurring. I began to fancy we could see Jerusalem from the
top of the pass, and tried to think of the ancient days of Judea. But it was in vain. A newer
picture shut them out, and banished even the diviner images of Our Saviour and His Disciples.
Heathen that I was, I could only think of Godfrey and the Crusaders, toiling up the same path,
and the ringing lines of Tasso vibrated constantly in my ear:

  "Ecco apparir Gierusalemm' si vede;
  Ecco additar Gierusalemm' si scorge;
  Ecco da mille voci unitamente,
  Gierusalemme salutar si sente!"

The Palestine of the Bible--the Land of Promise to the Israelites, the land of Miracle and
Sacrifice to the Apostles and their followers--still slept in the unattainable distance, under
a sky of bluer and more tranquil loveliness than that to whose cloudless vault I looked up.
It lay as far and beautiful as it once seemed to the eye of childhood, and the swords of Seraphim
kept profane feet from its sacred hills. But these rough rocks around me, these dry, fiery
hollows, these thickets of ancient oak and ilex, had heard the trumpets of the Middle Ages,
and the clang and clatter of European armor--I could feel and believe that. I entered the ranks;
I followed the trumpets and the holy hymns, and waited breathlessly for the moment when every
mailed knee should drop in the dust, and every bearded and sunburned cheek be wet with devotional
tears.

But when I climbed the last ridge, and looked ahead with a sort of painful suspense, Jerusalem
did not appear. We were two thousand feet above the Mediterranean, whose blue we could dimly
see far to the west, through notches in the chain of hills. To the north, the mountains were
gray, desolate, and awful. Not a shrub or a tree relieved their frightful barrenness. An upland
tract, covered with white volcanic rock, lay before us. We met peasants with asses, who looked
(to my eyes) as if they had just left Jerusalem. Still forward we urged our horses, and reached
a ruined garden, surrounded with hedges of cactus, over which I saw domes and walls in the
distance. I drew a long breath and looked at François. He was jogging along without turning
his head; he could not have been so indifferent if that was really the city. Presently, we
reached another slight rise in the rocky plain. He began to urge his panting horse, and at
the same instant we both lashed the spirit into ours, dashed on at a break-neck gallop, round
the corner of an old wall on the top of the hill, and lo! the Holy City! Our Greek jerked both
pistols from his holsters, and fired them into the air, as we reined up on the steep.

From the descriptions of travellers, I had expected to see in Jerusalem an ordinary modern
Turkish town; but that before me, with its walls, fortresses, and domes, was it not still the
City of David? I saw the Jerusalem of the New Testament, as I had imagined it. Long lines of
walls crowned with a notched parapet and strengthened by towers; a few domes and spires above
them; clusters of cypress here and there; this was all that was visible of the city. On either
side the hill sloped down to the two deep valleys over which it hangs. On the east, the Mount
of Olives, crowned with a chapel and mosque, rose high and steep, but in front, the eye passed
directly over the city, to rest far away upon the lofty mountains of Moab, beyond the Dead
Sea. The scene was grand in its simplicity. The prominent colors were the purple of those distant
mountains, and the hoary gray of the nearer hills. The walls were of the dull yellow of weather-stained
marble, and the only trees, the dark cypress and moonlit olive. Now, indeed, for one brief
moment, I knew that I was in Palestine; that I saw Mount Olivet and Mount Zion; and--I know
not how it was--my sight grew weak, and all objects trembled and wavered in a watery film.
Since we arrived, I have looked down upon the city from the Mount of Olives, and up to it from
the Valley of Jehosaphat; but I cannot restore the illusion of that first view.

We allowed our horses to walk slowly down the remaining half-mile to the Jaffa gate. An Englishman,
with a red silk shawl over his head, was sketching the city, while an Arab held an umbrella
over him. Inside the gate we stumbled upon an Italian shop with an Italian sign, and after
threading a number of intricate passages under dark archways, and being turned off from one
hotel, which was full of travellers, reached another, kept by a converted German Jew, where
we found Dr. Robinson and Dr. Ely Smith, who both arrived yesterday. It sounds strange to talk
of a hotel in Jerusalem, but the world is progressing, and there are already three. I leave
to-morrow for Jericho, the Jordan, and the Dead Sea, and shall have more to say of Jerusalem
on my return.

Chapter IV.

The Dead Sea and the Jordan River. 8.

Jerusalem, May 1, 1852.

I returned this after noon from an excursion to the Dead Sea, the River Jordan, and the site
of Jericho. Owing to the approaching heats, an early visit was deemed desirable, and the shekhs,
who have charge of the road, were summoned to meet us on the day after we arrived. There are
two of these gentlemen, the Shekh el-Aràb (of the Bedouins), and the Shekh el-Fellaheen (of
the peasants, or husbandmen), to whom each traveller is obliged to pay one hundred piastres
for an escort. It is, in fact, a sort of compromise, by which the shekhs agree not to rob the
traveller, and to protect him against other shekhs. If the road is not actually safe, the Turkish
garrison here is a mere farce, but the arrangement is winked at by the Pasha, who, of course,
gets his share of the 100,000 piastres which the two scamps yearly levy upon travellers. The
shekhs came to our rooms, and after trying to postpone our departure, in order to attach other
tourists to the same escort, and thus save a little expense, took half the pay and agreed to
be ready the next morning. Unfortunately for my original plan, the Convent of San Saba has
been closed within two or three weeks, and no stranger is now admitted. This unusual step was
caused by the disorderly conduct of some Frenchmen who visited San Saba. We sent to the Bishop
of the Greek Church, asking a simple permission to view the interior of the Convent; but without
effect.

We left the city yesterday morning by St. Stephen's Gate, descended to the Valley of Jehosaphat,
rode under the stone wall which encloses the supposed Gethsemane, and took a path leading along
the Mount of Olives, towards the Hill of Offence, which stands over against the southern end
of the city, opposite the mouth of the Vale of Hinnon. Neither of the shekhs made his appearance,
but sent in their stead three Arabs, two of whom were mounted and armed with sabres and long
guns. Our man, Mustapha, had charge of the baggage-mule, carrying our tent and the provisions
for the trip. It was a dull, sultry morning; a dark, leaden haze hung over Jerusalem, and the
khamseen, or sirocco-wind, came from the south-west, out of the Arabian Desert. We had again
resumed the Oriental costume, but in spite of an ample turban, my face soon began to scorch
in the dry heat. From the crest of the Hill of Offence there is a wide view over the heights
on both sides of the valley of the Brook Kedron. Their sides are worked into terraces, now
green with springing grain, and near the bottom planted with olive and fig trees. The upland
ridge or watershed of Palestine is cultivated for a considerable distance around Jerusalem.
The soil is light and stony, yet appears to yield a good return for the little labor bestowed
upon it.

Crossing the southern flank of Mount Olivet, in half an hour we reached the village of Bethany,
hanging on the side of the hill. It is a miserable cluster of Arab huts, with not a building
which appears to be more than a century old. The Grotto of Lazarus is here shown, and, of course,
we stopped to see it. It belongs to an old Mussulman, who came out of his house with a piece
of waxed rope, to light us down. An aperture opens from the roadside into the hill, and there
is barely room enough for a person to enter. Descending about twenty steps at a sharp angle,
we landed in a small, damp vault, with an opening in the floor, communicating with a short
passage below. The vault was undoubtedly excavated for sepulchral purposes, and the bodies
were probably deposited (as in many Egyptian tombs) in the pit under it. Our guide, however,
pointed to a square mass of masonry in one corner as the tomb of Lazarus, whose body, he informed
us, was still walled up there. There was an arch in the side of the vault, once leading to
other chambers, but now closed up, and the guide stated that seventy-four Prophets were interred
therein. There seems to be no doubt that the present Arab village occupies the site of Bethany;
and if it could be proved that this pit existed at the beginning of the Christian Era, and
there never had been any other, we might accept it as the tomb of Lazarus. On the crest of
a high hill, over against Bethany, is an Arab village on the site of Bethpage.

We descended into the valley of a winter stream, now filled with patches of sparse wheat, just
beginning to ripen. The mountains grew more bleak and desolate as we advanced, and as there
is a regular descent in the several ranges over which one must pass, the distant hills of the
lands of Moab and Ammon were always in sight, rising like a high, blue wall against the sky.
The Dead Sea is 4,000 feet below Jerusalem, but the general slope of the intervening district
is so regular that from the spires of the city, and the Mount of Olives, one can look down
directly upon its waters. This deceived me as to the actual distance, and I could scarcely
credit the assertion of our Arab escort, that it would require six hours to reach it. After
we had ridden nearly two hours, we left the Jericho road, sending Mustapha and a staunch old
Arab direct to our resting-place for the night, in the Valley of the Jordan. The two mounted
Bedouins accompanied us across the rugged mountains lying between us and the Dead Sea.

At first, we took the way to the Convent of Mar Saba, following the course of the Brook Kedron
down the Wady en-Nar (Valley of Fire). In half an hour more we reached two large tanks, hewn
out under the base of a limestone cliff, and nearly filled with rain. The surface was covered
with a greenish vegetable scum, and three wild and dirty Arabs of the hills were washing themselves
in the principal one. Our Bedouins immediately dismounted and followed their example, and after
we had taken some refreshment, we had the satisfaction of filling our water-jug from the same
sweet pool. After this, we left the San Saba road, and mounted the height east of the valley.
From that point, all signs of cultivation and habitation disappeared. The mountains were grim,
bare, and frightfully rugged. The scanty grass, coaxed into life by the winter rains, was already
scorched out of all greenness; some bunches of wild sage, gnaphalium, and other hardy aromatic
herbs spotted the yellow soil, and in sheltered places the scarlet poppies burned like coals
of fire among the rifts of the gray limestone rock. Our track kept along the higher ridges
and crests of the hills, between the glens and gorges which sank on either hand to a dizzy
depth below, and were so steep as to be almost inaccessible. The region is so scarred, gashed
and torn, that no work of man's hand can save it from perpetual desolation. It is a wilderness
more hopeless than the Desert. If I were left alone in the midst of it, I should lie down and
await death, without thought or hope of rescue.

The character of the day was peculiarly suited to enhance the impression of such scenery. Though
there were no clouds, the sun was invisible: as far as we could see, beyond the Jordan, and
away southward to the mountains of Moab and the cliffs of Engaddi, the whole country was covered
as with the smoke of a furnace; and the furious sirocco, that threatened to topple us down
the gulfs yawning on either hand, had no coolness on its wings. The horses were sure-footed,
but now and then a gust would come that made them and us strain against it, to avoid being
dashed against the rock on one side, or hurled off the brink on the other. The atmosphere was
painfully oppressive, and by and by a dogged silence took possession of our party. After passing
a lofty peak which François called Djebel Nuttar, the Mountain of Rain, we came to a large
Moslem building, situated on a bleak eminence, overlooking part of the valley of the Jordan.
This is the tomb called Nebbee Moussa by the Arabs, and believed by them to stand upon the
spot where Moses died. We halted at the gate, but no one came to admit us, though my companion
thought he saw a man's head at one of the apertures in the wall. Arab tradition here is as
much at fault as Christian tradition in many other places. The true Nebo is somewhere in the
chain of Pisgah; and though, probably, I saw it, and all see it who go down to the Jordan,
yet "no man knoweth its place unto this day."

Beyond Nebbee Moussa, we came out upon the last heights overlooking the Dead Sea, though several
miles of low hills remained to be passed. The head of the sea was visible as far as the Ras-el-Feshka
on the west; and the hot fountains of Callirhoë on the eastern shore. Farther than this, all
was vapor and darkness. The water was a soft, deep purple hue, brightening into blue. Our road
led down what seemed a vast sloping causeway from the mountains, between two ravines, walled
by cliffs several hundred feet in height. It gradually flattened into a plain, covered with
a white, saline incrustation, and grown with clumps of sour willow, tamarisk, and other shrubs,
among which I looked in vain for the osher, or Dead Sea apple. The plants appeared as if smitten
with leprosy; but there were some flowers growing almost to the margin of the sea. We reached
the shore about 2 P.M. The heat by this time was most severe, and the air so dense as to occasion
pains in my ears. The Dead Sea is 1,300 feet below the Mediterranean, and without doubt the
lowest part of the earth's surface. I attribute the oppression I felt to this fact and to the
sultriness of the day, rather than to any exhalation from the sea itself. François remarked,
however, that had the wind--which by this time was veering round to the north-east--blown from
the south, we could scarcely have endured it. The sea resembles a great cauldron, sunk between
mountains from three to four thousand feet in height; and probably we did not experience more
than a tithe of the summer heat.

I proposed a bath, for the sake of experiment, but François endeavored to dissuade us. He had
tried it, and nothing could be more disagreeable; we risked getting a fever, and, besides,
there were four hours of dangerous travel yet before us. But by this time we were half undressed,
and soon were floating on the clear bituminous waves. The beach was fine gravel and shelved
gradually down. I kept my turban on my head, and was careful to avoid touching the water with
my face. The sea was moderately warm and gratefully soft and soothing to the skin. It was impossible
to sink; and even while swimming, the body rose half out of the water. I should think it possible
to dive for a short distance, but prefer that some one else would try the experiment. With
a log of wood for a pillow, one might sleep as on one of the patent mattresses. The taste of
the water is salty and pungent, and stings the tongue like saltpetre. We were obliged to dress
in all haste, without even wiping off the detestable liquid; yet I experienced very little
of that discomfort which most travellers have remarked. Where the skin had been previously
bruised, there was a slight smarting sensation, and my body felt clammy and glutinous, but
the bath was rather refreshing than otherwise.

We turned our horses' heads towards the Jordan, and rode on over a dry, barren plain. The two
Bedouins at first dashed ahead at full gallop, uttering cries, and whirling their long guns
in the air. The dust they raised was blown in our faces, and contained so much salt that my
eyes began to smart painfully. Thereupon I followed them at an equal rate of speed, and we
left a long cloud of the accursed soil whirling behind us. Presently, however, they fell to
the rear, and continued to keep at some distance from us. The reason of this was soon explained.
The path turned eastward, and we already saw a line of dusky green winding through the wilderness.
This was the Jordan, and the mountains beyond, the home of robber Arabs, were close at hand.
Those robbers frequently cross the river and conceal themselves behind the sand-hills on this
side. Our brave escort was, therefore, inclined to put us forward as a forlorn-hope, and secure
their own retreat in case of an attack. But as we were all well armed, and had never considered
their attendance as anything more than a genteel way of buying them off from robbing us, we
allowed them to lag as much as they chose. Finally, as we approached the Pilgrims' Ford, one
of them took his station at some distance from the river, on the top of a mound, while the
other got behind some trees near at hand; in order, as they said, to watch the opposite hills,
and alarm us whenever they should see any of the Beni Sukrs, or the Beni Adwams, or the Tyakh,
coming down upon us.

The Jordan at this point will not average more than ten yards in breadth. It flows at the bottom
of a gully about fifteen feet deep, which traverses the broad valley in a most tortuous course.
The water has a white, clayey hue, and is very swift. The changes of the current have formed
islands and beds of soil here and there, which are covered with a dense growth of ash, poplar,
willow, and tamarisk trees. The banks of the river are bordered with thickets, now overgrown
with wild vines, and fragrant with flowering plants. Birds sing continually in the cool, dark
coverts of the trees. I found a singular charm in the wild, lonely, luxuriant banks, the tangled
undergrowth, and the rapid, brawling course of the sacred stream, as it slipped in sight and
out of sight among the trees. It is almost impossible to reach the water at any other point
than the Ford of the Pilgrims, the supposed locality of the passage of the Israelites and the
baptism of Christ. The plain near it is still blackened by the camp-fires of the ten thousand
pilgrims who went down from Jerusalem three weeks ago, to bathe. We tied our horses to the
trees, and prepared to follow their example, which was necessary, if only to wash off the iniquitous
slime of the Dead Sea. François, in the meantime, filled two tin flasks from the stream and
stowed them in the saddle-bags. The current was so swift, that one could not venture far without
the risk of being carried away; but I succeeded in obtaining a complete and most refreshing
immersion. The taint of Gomorrah was not entirely washed away, but I rode off with as great
a sense of relief as if the baptism had been a moral one, as well, and had purified me from sin.

We rode for nearly two hours, in a north-west direction, to the Bedouin village of Rihah, near
the site of ancient Jericho. Before reaching it, the gray salt waste vanishes, and the soil
is covered with grass and herbs. The barren character of the first region is evidently owing
to deposits from the vapors of the Dead Sea, as they are blown over the plain by the south
wind. The channels of streams around Jericho are filled with nebbuk trees, the fruit of which
is just ripening. It is apparently indigenous, and grows more luxuriantly than on the White
Nile. It is a variety of the rhamnus, and is set down by botanists as the Spina Christi, of
which the Saviour's mock crown of thorns was made. I see no reason to doubt this, as the twigs
are long and pliant, and armed with small, though most cruel, thorns. I had to pay for gathering
some of the fruit, with a torn dress and bleeding fingers. The little apples which it bears
are slightly acid and excellent for alleviating thirst. I also noticed on the plain a variety
of the nightshade with large berries of a golden color. The spring flowers, so plentiful now
in all other parts of Palestine, have already disappeared from the Valley of the Jordan.

Rihah is a vile little village of tents and mud-huts, and the only relic of antiquity near
it is a square tower, which may possibly be of the time of Herod. There are a few gardens in
the place, and a grove of superb fig-trees. We found our tent already pitched beside a rill
which issues from the Fountain of Elisha. The evening was very sultry, and the musquitoes gave
us no rest. We purchased some milk from an old man who came to the tent, but such was his mistrust
of us that he refused to let us keep the earthen vessel containing it until morning. As we
had already paid the money to his son, we would not let him take the milk away until he had
brought the money back. He then took a dagger from his waist and threw it before us as security,
while he carried off the vessel and returned the price. I have frequently seen the same mistrustful
spirit exhibited in Egypt. Our two Bedouins, to whom I gave some tobacco in the evening, manifested
their gratitude by stealing the remainder of our stock during the night.

This morning we followed the stream to its source, the Fountain of Elisha, so called as being
probably that healed by the Prophet. If so, the healing was scarcely complete. The water, which
gushes up strong and free at the foot of a rocky mound, is warm and slightly brackish. It spreads
into a shallow pool, shaded by a fine sycamore tree. Just below, there are some remains of
old walls on both sides, and the stream goes roaring away through a rank jungle of canes fifteen
feet in height. The precise site of Jericho, I believe, has not been fixed, but "the city of
the palm trees," as it was called, was probably on the plain, near some mounds which rise behind
the Fountain. Here there are occasional traces of foundation walls, but so ruined as to give
no clue to the date of their erection. Further towards the mountain there are some arches,
which appear to be Saracenic. As we ascended again into the hill-country, I observed several
traces of cisterns in the bottoms of ravines, which collect the rains. Herod, as is well known,
built many such cisterns near Jericho, where he had a palace. On the first crest, to which
we climbed, there is part of a Roman tower yet standing. The view, looking back over the valley
of Jordan, is magnificent, extending from the Dead Sea to the mountains of Gilead, beyond the
country of Ammon. I thought I could trace the point where the River Yabbok comes down from
Mizpeh of Gilead to join the Jordan.

The wilderness we now entered was fully as barren, but less rugged than that through which
we passed yesterday. The path ascended along the brink of a deep gorge, at the bottom of which
a little stream foamed over the rocks. The high, bleak summits towards which we were climbing,
are considered by some Biblical geographers to be Mount Quarantana, the scene of Christ's fasting
and temptation. After two hours we reached the ruins of a large khan or hostlery, under one
of the peaks, which François stated to be the veritable "high mountain" whence the Devil pointed
out all the kingdoms of the earth. There is a cave in the rock beside the road, which the superstitious
look upon as the orifice out of which his Satanic Majesty issued. We met large numbers of Arab
families, with their flocks, descending from the mountains to take up their summer residence
near the Jordan. They were all on foot, except the young children and goats, which were stowed
together on the backs of donkeys. The men were armed, and appeared to be of the same tribe
as our escort, with whom they had a good understanding.

The morning was cold and cloudy, and we hurried on over the hills to a fountain in the valley
of the Brook Kedron, where we breakfasted. Before we had reached Bethany a rain came down,
and the sky hung dark and lowering over Jerusalem, as we passed the crest of Mount Olivet.
It still rains, and the filthy condition of the city exceeds anything I have seen, even in
the Orient. 29.

  "Here pilgrims roam, that strayed so far to seek
  In Golgotha him dead, who lives in Heaven."

  Milton.

Jerusalem, Monday, May 3, 1852.

Since travel is becoming a necessary part of education, and a journey through the East is no
longer attended with personal risk, Jerusalem will soon be as familiar a station on the grand
tour as Paris or Naples. The task of describing it is already next to superfluous, so thoroughly
has the topography of the city been laid down by the surveys of Robinson and the drawings of
Roberts. There is little more left for Biblical research. The few places which can be authenticated
are now generally accepted, and the many doubtful ones must always be the subjects of speculation
and conjecture. There is no new light which can remove the cloud of uncertainties wherein one
continually wanders. Yet, even rejecting all these with the most skeptical spirit, there still
remains enough to make the place sacred in the eyes of every follower of Christ. The city stands
on the ancient site; the Mount of Olives looks down upon it; the foundations of the Temple
of Solomon are on Mount Moriah; the Pool of Siloam has still a cup of water for those who at
noontide go down to the Valley of Jehosaphat; the ancient gate yet looketh towards Damascus,
and of the Palace of Herod, there is a tower which Time and Turk and Crusader have spared.

Jerusalem is built on the summit ridge of the hill-country of Palestine, just where it begins
to slope eastward. Not half a mile from the Jaffa Gate, the waters run towards the Mediterranean.
It is about 2,700 feet above the latter, and 4,000 feet above the Dead Sea, to which the descent
is much more abrupt. The hill, or rather group of small mounts, on which Jerusalem stands,
slants eastward to the brink of the Valley of Jehosaphat, and the Mount of Olives rises opposite,
from the sides and summit of which, one sees the entire city spread out like a map before him.
The Valley of Hinnon, the bed of which is on a much higher level than that of Jehosaphat, skirts
the south-western and southern part of the walls, and drops into the latter valley at the foot
of Mount Zion, the most southern of the mounts. The steep slope at the junction of the two
valleys is the site of the city of the Jebusites, the most ancient part of Jerusalem. It is
now covered with garden-terraces, the present wall crossing from Mount Zion on the south to
Mount Moriah on the east. A little glen, anciently called the Tyropeon, divides the mounts,
and winds through to the Damascus Gate, on the north, though from the height of the walls and
the position of the city, the depression which it causes in the mass of buildings is not very
perceptible, except from the latter point, Moriah is the lowest of the mounts, and hangs directly
over the Valley of Jehosaphat. Its summit was built up by Solomon so as to form a quadrangular
terrace, five hundred by three hundred yards in dimension. The lower courses of the grand wall,
composed of huge blocks of gray conglomerate limestone, still remain, and there seems to be
no doubt that they are of the time of Solomon. Some of the stones are of enormous size; I noticed
several which were fifteen, and one twenty-two feet in length. The upper part of the wall was
restored by Sultan Selim, the conqueror of Egypt, and the level of the terrace now supports
the great Mosque of Omar, which stands on the very site of the temple. Except these foundation
walls, the Damascus Gate and the Tower of Hippicus, there is nothing left of the ancient city.
The length of the present wall of circumference is about two miles, but the circuit of Jerusalem,
in the time of Herod, was probably double that distance.

The best views of the city are from the Mount of Olives, and the hill north of it, whence Titus
directed the siege which resulted in its total destruction. The Crusaders under Godfrey of
Bouillon encamped on the same hill. My first walk after reaching here, was to the summit of
the Mount of Olives. Not far from the hotel we came upon the Via Dolorosa, up which, according
to Catholic tradition, Christ toiled with the cross upon his shoulders. I found it utterly
impossible to imagine that I was walking in the same path, and preferred doubting the tradition.
An arch is built across the street at the spot where they say he was shown to the populace.
(Ecce Homo.) The passage is steep and rough, descending to St. Stephen's Gate by the Governor's
Palace, which stands on the site of the house of Pontius Pilate. Here, in the wall forming
the northern part of the foundation of the temple, there are some very fine remains of ancient
workmanship. From the city wall, the ground descends abruptly to the Valley of Jehosaphat.
The Turkish residents have their tombs on the city side, just under the terrace of the mosque,
while thousands of Jews find a peculiar beatitude in having themselves interred on the opposite
slope of the Mount of Olives, which is in some places quite covered with their crumbling tombstones.
The bed of the Brook Kedron is now dry and stony. A sort of chapel, built in the bottom of
the valley, is supposed by the Greeks to cover the tomb of the Virgin--a claim which the Latins
consider absurd. Near this, at the very foot of the Mount of Olives, the latter sect have lately
built a high stone wall around the Garden of Gethsemane, for the purpose, apparently, of protecting
the five aged olives. I am ignorant of the grounds wherefore Gethsemane is placed here. Most
travellers have given their faith to the spot, but Dr. Robinson, who is more reliable than
any amount of mere tradition, does not coincide with them. The trees do not appear as ancient
as some of those at the foot of Mount Carmel, which are supposed to date from the Roman colony
established by Titus. Moreover, it is well known that at the time of the taking of Jerusalem
by that Emperor, all the trees, for many miles around, were destroyed. The olive-trees, therefore,
cannot be those under which Christ rested, even supposing this to be the true site of Gethseniane.

The Mount of Olives is a steep and rugged hill, dominating over the city and the surrounding
heights. It is still covered with olive orchards, and planted with patches of grain, which
do not thrive well on the stony soil. On the summit is a mosque, with a minaret attached, which
affords a grand panoramic view. As we reached it, the Chief of the College of Dervishes, in
the court of the Mosque of Omar, came out with a number of attendants. He saluted us courteously,
which would not have been the case had he been the Superior of the Latin Convent, and we Greek
Monks. There were some Turkish ladies in the interior of the mosque, so that we could not gain
admittance, and therefore did not see the rock containing the foot-prints of Christ, who, according
to Moslem tradition, ascended to heaven from this spot. The Mohammedans, it may not be generally
known, accept the history of Christ, except his crucifixion, believing that he passed to heaven
without death, another person being crucified in his stead. They call him the Roh-Allah, or
Spirit of God, and consider him, after Mahomet, as the holiest of the Prophets.

We ascended to the gallery of the minaret. The city lay opposite, so fairly spread out to our
view that almost every house might be separately distinguished. It is a mass of gray buildings,
with dome-roofs, and but for the mosques of Omar and El Aksa, with the courts and galleries
around them, would be exceedingly tame in appearance. The only other prominent points are the
towers of the Holy Sepulchre, the citadel, enclosing Herod's Tower, and the mosque on mount
Zion. The Turkish wall, with its sharp angles, its square bastions, and the long, embrasured
lines of its parapet, is the most striking feature of the view. Stony hills stretch away from
the city on all sides, at present cheered with tracts of springing wheat, but later in the
season, brown and desolate. In the south, the convent of St. Elias is visible, and part of
the little town of Bethlehem. I passed to the eastern side of the gallery, and looking thence,
deep down among the sterile mountains, beheld a long sheet of blue water, its southern extremity
vanishing in a hot, sulphury haze. The mountains of Ammon and Moab, which formed the background
of my first view of Jerusalem, leaned like a vast wall against the sky, beyond the mysterious
sea and the broad valley of the Jordan. The great depression of this valley below the level
of the Mediterranean gives it a most remarkable character. It appears even deeper than is actually
the case, and resembles an enormous chasm or moat, separating two different regions of the
earth. The khamseen was blowing from the south, from out the deserts of Edom, and threw its
veil of fiery vapor over the landscape. The muezzin pointed out to me the location of Jericho,
of Kerak in Moab, and Es-Salt in the country of Ammon. Ere long the shadow of the minaret denoted
noon, and, placing his hands on both sides of his mouth, he cried out, first on the South side,
towards Mecca, and then to the West, and North, and East: "God is great: there is no God but
God, and Mohammed is His Prophet! Let us prostrate ourselves before Him: and to Him alone be
the glory!"

Jerusalem, internally, gives no impression but that of filth, ruin, poverty, and degradation.
There are two or three streets in the western or higher portion of the city which are tolerably
clean, but all the others, to the very gates of the Holy Sepulchre, are channels of pestilence.
The Jewish Quarter, which is the largest, so sickened and disgusted me, that I should rather
go the whole round of the city walls than pass through it a second time. The bazaars are poor,
compared with those of other Oriental cities of the same size, and the principal trade seems
to be in rosaries, both Turkish and Christian, crosses, seals, amulets, and pieces of the Holy
Sepulchre. The population, which may possibly reach 20,000, is apparently Jewish, for the most
part; at least, I have been principally struck with the Hebrew face, in my walks. The number
of Jews has increased considerably within a few years, and there is also quite a number who,
having been converted to Protestantism, were brought hither at the expense of English missionary
societies for the purpose of forming a Protestant community. Two of the hotels are kept by
families of this class. It is estimated that each member of the community has cost the Mission
about £4,500: a sum which would have Christianized tenfold the number of English heathen. The
Mission, however, is kept up by its patrons, as a sort of religious luxury. The English have
lately built a very handsome church within the walls, and the Rev. Dr. Gobat, well known by
his missionary labors in Abyssinia, now has the title of Bishop of Jerusalem. A friend of his
in Central Africa gave me a letter of introduction for him, and I am quite disappointed in
finding him absent. Dr. Barclay, of Virginia, a most worthy man in every respect, is at the
head of the American Mission here. There is, besides, what is called the "American Colony,"
at the village of Artos, near Bethlehem: a little community of religious enthusiasts, whose
experiments in cultivation have met with remarkable success, and are much spoken of at present.

Whatever good the various missions here may, in time, accomplish (at present, it does not amount
to much), Jerusalem is the last place in the world where an intelligent heathen would be converted
to Christianity. Were I cast here, ignorant of any religion, and were I to compare the lives
and practices of the different sects as the means of making my choice--in short, to judge of
each faith by the conduct of its professors--I should at once turn Mussulman. When you consider
that in the Holy Sepulchre there are nineteen chapels, each belonging to a different sect,
calling itself Christian, and that a Turkish police is always stationed there to prevent the
bloody quarrels which often ensue between them, you may judge how those who call themselves
followers of the Prince of Peace practice the pure faith he sought to establish. Between the
Greek and Latin churches, especially, there is a deadly feud, and their contentions are a scandal,
not only to the few Christians here, but to the Moslems themselves. I believe there is a sort
of truce at present, owing to the settlement of some of the disputes--as, for instance, the
restoration of the silver star, which the Greeks stole from the shrine of the Nativity, at
Bethlehem. The Latins, however, not long since, demolished, vi et armis, a chapel which the
Greeks commenced building on Mount Zion. But, if the employment of material weapons has been
abandoned for the time, there is none the less a war of words and of sounds still going on.
Go into the Holy Sepulchre, when mass is being celebrated, and you can scarcely endure the
din. No sooner does the Greek choir begin its shrill chant, than the Latins fly to the assault.
They have an organ, and terribly does that organ strain its bellows and labor its pipes to
drown the rival singing. You think the Latins will carry the day, when suddenly the cymbals
of the Abyssinians strike in with harsh brazen clang, and, for the moment, triumph. Then there
are Copts, and Maronites, and Armenians, and I know not how many other sects, who must have
their share; and the service that should be a many-toned harmony pervaded by one grand spirit
of devotion, becomes a discordant orgie, befitting the rites of Belial.

A long time ago--I do not know the precise number of years--the Sultan granted a firman, in
answer to the application of both Jews and Christians, allowing the members of each sect to
put to death any person belonging to the other sect, who should be found inside of their churches
or synagogues. The firman has never been recalled, though in every place but Jerusalem it remains
a dead letter. Here, although the Jews freely permit Christians to enter their synagogue, a
Jew who should enter the Holy Sepulchre would be lucky if he escaped with his life. Not long
since, an English gentleman, who was taken by the monks for a Jew, was so severely beaten that
he was confined to his bed for two months. What worse than scandal, what abomination, that
the spot looked upon by so many Christians as the most awfully sacred on earth, should be the
scene of such brutish intolerance! I never pass the group of Turkish officers, quietly smoking
their long pipes and sipping their coffee within the vestibule of the Church, without a feeling
of humiliation. Worse than the money-changers whom Christ scourged out of the Temple, the guardians
of this edifice make use of His crucifixion and resurrection as a means of gain. You may buy
a piece of the stone covering the Holy Sepulchre, duly certified by the Greek Patriarch of
Jerusalem, for about $7. At Bethlehem, which I visited this morning, the Latin monk who showed
us the manger, the pit where 12,000 innocents were buried, and other things, had much less
to say of the sacredness or authenticity of the place, than of the injustice of allowing the
Greeks a share in its possession.

The native Jewish families in Jerusalem, as well as those in other parts of Palestine, present
a marked difference to the Jews of Europe and America. They possess the same physical characteristics--the
dark, oblong eye, the prominent nose, the strongly-marked cheek and jaw--but in the latter,
these traits have become harsh and coarse. Centuries devoted to the lowest and most debasing
forms of traffic, with the endurance of persecution and contumely, have greatly changed and
vulgarized the appearance of the race. But the Jews of the Holy City still retain a noble beauty,
which proved to my mind their descent from the ancient princely houses of Israel The forehead
is loftier, the eye larger and more frank in its expression, the nose more delicate in its
prominence, and the face a purer oval. I have remarked the same distinction in the countenances
of those Jewish families of Europe, whose members have devoted themselves to Art or Literature.
Mendelssohn's was a face that might have belonged to the House of David.

On the evening of my arrival in the city, as I set out to walk through the bazaars, I encountered
a native Jew, whose face will haunt me for the rest of my life. I was sauntering slowly along,
asking myself "Is this Jerusalem?" when, lifting my eyes, they met those of Christ! It was
the very face which Raphael has painted--the traditional features of the Saviour, as they are
recognised and accepted by all Christendom. The waving brown hair, partly hidden by a Jewish
cap, fell clustering about the ears; the face was the most perfect oval, and almost feminine
in the purity of its outline; the serene, child-like mouth was shaded with a light moustache,
and a silky brown beard clothed the chin; but the eyes--shall I ever look into such orbs again?
Large, dark, unfathomable, they beamed with an expression of divine love and divine sorrow,
such as I never before saw in human face. The man had just emerged from a dark archway, and
the golden glow of the sunset, reflected from a white wall above, fell upon his face. Perhaps
it was this transfiguration which made his beauty so unearthly; but, during the moment that
I saw him, he was to me a revelation of the Saviour. There are still miracles in the Land of
Judah. As the dusk gathered in the deep streets, I could see nothing but the ineffable sweetness
and benignity of that countenance, and my friend was not a little astonished, if not shocked,
when I said to him, with the earnestness of belief, on my return: "I have just seen Christ."

I made the round of the Holy Sepulchre on Sunday, while the monks were celebrating the festival
of the Invention of the Cross, in the chapel of the Empress Helena. As the finding of the cross
by the Empress is almost the only authority for the places inclosed within the Holy Sepulchre,
I went there inclined to doubt their authenticity, and came away with my doubt vastly strengthened.
The building is a confused labyrinth of chapels, choirs, shrines, staircases, and vaults--without
any definite plan or any architectural beauty, though very rich in parts and full of picturesque
effects. Golden lamps continually burn before the sacred places, and you rarely visit the church
without seeing some procession of monks, with crosses, censers, and tapers, threading the shadowy
passages, from shrine to shrine It is astonishing how many localities are assembled under one
roof. At first, you are shown, the stone on which Christ rested from the burden of the cross;
then, the place where the soldiers cast lots for His garments, both of them adjoining the Sepulchre.
After seeing this, you are taken to the Pillar of Flagellation; the stocks; the place of crowning
with thorns; the spot where He met His mother; the cave where the Empress Helena found the
cross; and, lastly, the summit of Mount Calvary. The Sepulchre is a small marble building in
the centre of the church. We removed our shoes at the entrance, and were taken by a Greek monk,
first into a sort of ante-chamber, lighted with golden lamps, and having in the centre, inclosed
in a case of marble, the stone on which the angel sat. Stooping through a low door, we entered
the Sepulchre itself. Forty lamps of gold burn unceasingly above the white marble slab, which,
as the monks say, protects the stone whereon the body of Christ was laid. As we again emerged,
our guide led us up a flight of steps to a second story, in which stood a shrine, literally
blazing with gold. Kneeling on the marble floor, he removed a golden shield, and showed us
the hole in the rock of Calvary, where the cross was planted. Close beside it was the fissure
produced by the earthquake which followed the Crucifixion. But, to my eyes, aided by the light
of the dim wax taper, it was no violent rupture, such as an earthquake would produce, and the
rock did not appear to be the same as that of which Jerusalem is built. As we turned to leave,
a monk appeared with a bowl of sacred rose-water, which he sprinkled on our hands, bestowing
a double portion on a rosary of sandal-wood which I carried But it was a Mohammedan rosary,
brought from Mecca, and containing the sacred number of ninety-nine beads.

I have not space here to state all the arguments for and against the localities in the Holy
Sepulchre, I came to the conclusion that none of them were authentic, and am glad to have the
concurrence of such distinguished authority as Dr. Robinson. So far from this being a matter
of regret, I, for one, rejoice that those sacred spots are lost to the world. Christianity
does not need them, and they are spared a daily profanation in the name of religion. We know
that Christ has walked on the Mount of Olives, and gone down to the Pool of Siloam, and tarried
in Bethany; we know that here, within the circuit of our vision, He has suffered agony and
death, and that from this little point went out all the light that has made the world greater
and happier and better in its later than in its earlier days.

Yet, I must frankly confess, in wandering through this city--revered alike by Christians, Jews
and Turks as one of the holiest in the world--I have been reminded of Christ, the Man, rather,
than of Christ, the God. In the glory which overhangs Palestine afar off, we imagine emotions
which never come, when we tread the soil and walk over the hallowed sites. As I toiled up the
Mount of Olives, in the very footsteps of Christ, panting with the heat and the difficult ascent,
I found it utterly impossible to conceive that the Deity, in human form, had walked there before
me. And even at night, as I walk on the terraced roof, while the moon, "the balmy moon of blessed
Israel," restores the Jerusalem of olden days to my imagination, the Saviour who then haunts
my thoughts is the Man Jesus, in those moments of trial when He felt the weaknesses of our
common humanity; in that agony of struggle in the garden of Gethsemane, in that still more
bitter cry of human doubt and human appeal from the cross: "My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken
me!" Yet there is no reproach for this conception of the character of Christ. Better the divinely-inspired
Man, the purest and most perfect of His race, the pattern and type of all that is good and
holy in Humanity, than the Deity for whose intercession we pray, while we trample His teachings
under our feet. It would be well for many Christian sects, did they keep more constantly before
their eyes the sublime humanity of Christ. How much bitter intolerance and persecution might
be spared the world, if, instead of simply adoring Him as a Divine Mediator, they would strive
to walk the ways He trod on earth. But Christianity is still undeveloped, and there is yet
no sect which represents its fall and perfect spirit.

It is my misfortune if I give offence by these remarks. I cannot assume emotions I do not feel,
and must describe Jerusalem as I found it. Since being here, I have read the accounts of several
travellers, and in many cases the devotional rhapsodies--the ecstacies of awe and reverence--in
which they indulge, strike me as forced and affected. The pious writers have described what
was expected of them, not what they found. It was partly from reading such accounts that my
anticipations were raised too high, for the view of the city from the Jaffa road and the panorama
from the Mount of Olives are the only things wherein I have been pleasantly disappointed.

By far the most interesting relic left to the city is the foundation wall of Solomon's Temple.
The Mosque of Omar, according to the accounts of the Turks, and Mr. Gather wood's examination,
rests on immense vaults, which are believed to be the substructions of the Temple itself. Under
the dome of the mosque there is a large mass of natural rock, revered by the Moslems as that
from which Mahomet mounted the beast Borak when he visited the Seven Heavens, and believed
by Mr. Catherwood to have served as part of the foundation of the Holy of Holies. No Christian
is allowed to enter the mosque, or even its enclosure, on penalty of death, and even the firman
of the Sultan has failed to obtain admission for a Frank. I have been strongly tempted to make
the attempt in my Egyptian dress, which happens to resemble that of a mollah or Moslem priest,
but the Dervishes in the adjoining college have sharp eyes, and my pronunciation of Arabic
would betray me in case I was accosted. I even went so far as to buy a string of the large
beads usually carried by a mollah, but unluckily I do not know the Moslem form of prayer, or
I might carry out the plan under the guise of religious abstraction. This morning we succeeded
in getting a nearer view of the mosque from the roof of the Governor's palace. François, by
assuming the character of a Turkish cawass, gained us admission. The roof overlooks the entire
enclosure of the Haram, and gives a complete view of the exterior of the mosque and the paved
court surrounding it. There is no regularity in the style of the buildings in the enclosure,
but the general effect is highly picturesque. The great dome of the mosque is the grandest
in all the Orient, but the body of the edifice, made to resemble an octagonal tent, and covered
with blue and white tiles, is not high enough to do it justice. The first court is paved with
marble, and has four porticoes, each of five light Saracenic arches, opening into the green
park, which occupies the rest of the terrace. This park is studded with cypress and fig trees,
and dotted all over with the tombs of shekhs. As we were looking down on the spacious area,
behold! who should come along but Shekh Mohammed Senoosee, the holy man of Timbuctoo, who had
laid off his scarlet robe and donned a green one. I called down to him, whereupon he looked
up and recognised us. For this reason I regret our departure from Jerusalem, as I am sure a
little persuasion would induce the holy man to accompany me within the mosque.

We leave to-morrow for Damascus, by way of Nazareth and Tiberius. My original plan was to have
gone to Djerash, the ancient Geraza, in the land of Gilead, and thence to Bozrah, in Djebel
Hauaran. But Djebel Adjeloun, as the country about Djerash is called, is under a powerful Bedouin
shekh, named Abd-el Azeez, and without an escort from him, which involves considerable delay
and a fee of $150, it would be impossible to make the journey. We are therefore restricted
to the ordinary route, and in case we should meet with any difficulty by the way, Mr. Smith,
the American Consul, who is now here, has kindly procured us a firman from the Pasha of Jerusalem.
All the travellers here are making preparations to leave, but there are still two parties in
the Desert.

  J. G. Whittier.

Latin Convent, Nazareth, Friday May 7, 1852.

We left Jerusalem by the Jaffa Gate, because within a few months neither travellers nor baggage
are allowed to pass the Damascus Gate, on account of smuggling operations having been carried
on there. Not far from the city wall there is a superb terebinth tree, now in the full glory
of its shining green leaves. It appears to be bathed in a perpetual dew; the rounded masses
of foliage sparkle and glitter in the light, and the great spreading boughs flood the turf
below with a deluge of delicious shade. A number of persons were reclining on the grass under
it, and one of them, a very handsome Christian boy, spoke to us in Italian and English. I scarcely
remember a brighter and purer day than that of our departure. The sky was a sheet of spotless
blue; every rift and scar of the distant hills was retouched with a firmer pencil, and all
the outlines, blurred away by the haze of the previous few days, were restored with wonderful
distinctness. The temperature was hot, but not sultry, and the air we breathed was an elixir
of immortality.

Through a luxuriant olive grove we reached the Tombs of the Kings, situated in a small valley
to the north of the city. Part of the valley, if not the whole of it, has been formed by quarrying
away the crags of marble and conglomerate limestone for building the city. Near the edge of
the low cliffs overhanging it, there are some illustrations of the ancient mode of cutting
stone, which, as well as the custom of excavating tombs in the rock, was evidently borrowed
from Egypt. The upper surface of the rocks, was first made smooth, after which the blocks were
mapped out and cut apart by grooves chiselled between them. I visited four or five tombs, each
of which had a sort of vestibule or open portico in front. The door was low, and the chambers
which I entered, small and black, without sculptures of any kind. The tombs bear some resemblance
in their general plan to those of Thebes, except that they are without ornaments, either sculptured
or painted. There are fragments of sarcophagi in some of them. On the southern side of the
valley is a large quarry, evidently worked for marble, as the blocks have been cut out from
below, leaving a large overhanging mass, part of which has broken off and fallen down. Some
pieces which I picked up were of a very fine white marble, somewhat resembling that of Carrara.
The opening of the quarry made a striking picture, the soft pink hue of the weather-stained
rock contrasting exquisitely with the vivid green of the vines festooning the entrance.

From the long hill beyond the Tombs, we took our last view of Jerusalem, far beyond whose walls
I saw the Church of the Nativity, at Bethlehem. The Jewish synagogue on the top of the mountain
called Nebbee Samwil, the highest peak in Palestine, was visible at some distance to the west.
Notwithstanding its sanctity, I felt little regret at leaving Jerusalem, and cheerfully took
the rough road northward, over the stony hills. There were few habitations in sight, yet the
hill-sides were cultivated, wherever it was possible for anything to grow. The wheat was just
coming into head, and the people were at work, planting maize. After four hours' ride, we reached
El Bireh, a little village on a hill, with the ruins of a convent and a large khan. The place
takes its name from a fountain of excellent water, beside which we found our tents already
pitched. In the evening, two Englishmen, an ancient Mentor, with a wild young Telemachus in
charge, arrived, and camped near us. The night was calm and cool, and the full moon poured
a flood of light over the bare and silent hills.

We rose long before sunrise, and rode off in the brilliant morning--the sky unstained by a
speck of vapor. In the valley, beyond El Bireh, the husbandmen were already at their ploughs,
and the village boys were on their way to the uncultured parts of the hills, with their flocks
of sheep and goats. The valley terminated in a deep gorge, with perpendicular walls of rock
on either side. Our road mounted the hill on the eastern side, and followed the brink of the
precipice through the pass, where an enchanting landscape opened upon us. The village of Yebrood
crowned a hill which rose opposite, and the mountain slopes leaning towards it on all sides
were covered with orchards of fig trees; and either rustling with wheat or cleanly ploughed
for maize. The soil was a dark brown loam, and very rich. The stones have been laboriously
built into terraces; and, even where heavy rocky boulders almost hid the soil, young fig and
olive trees were planted in the crevices between them. I have never seen more thorough and
patient cultivation. In the crystal of the morning air, the very hills laughed with plenty,
and the whole landscape beamed with the signs of gladness on its countenance.

The site of ancient Bethel was not far to the right of our road. Over hills laden with the
olive, fig, and vine, we passed to Ain el-Haramiyeh, or the Fountain of the Bobbers. Here there
are tombs cut in the rock on both sides of the valley. Over another ridge, we descended to
a large, bowl-shaped valley, entirely covered with wheat, and opening eastward towards the
Jordan. Thence to Nablous (the Shechem of the Old and Sychar of the New Testament) is four
hours through a winding dell of the richest harvest land; On the way, we first caught sight
of the snowy top of Mount Hermon, distant at least eighty miles in a straight line. Before
reaching Nablous, I stopped to drink at a fountain of clear and sweet water, beside a square
pile of masonry, upon which sat two Moslem dervishes. This, we were told, was the Tomb of Joseph,
whose body, after having accompanied the Israelites in all their wanderings, was at last deposited
near Shechem. There is less reason to doubt this spot than most of the sacred places of Palestine,
for the reason that it rests, not on Christian, but on Jewish tradition. The wonderful tenacity
with which the Jews cling to every record or memento of their early history, and the fact that
from the time of Joseph a portion of them have always lingered near the spot, render it highly
probable that the locality of a spot so sacred should have been preserved from generation to
generation to the present time. It has been recently proposed to open this tomb, by digging
under it from the side. If the body of Joseph was actually deposited here, there are, no doubt,
some traces of it remaining. It must have been embalmed, according to the Egyptian custom,
and placed in a coffin of the Indian sycamore, the wood of which is so nearly incorruptible,
that thirty-five centuries would not suffice for its decomposition. The singular interest of
such a discovery would certainly justify the experiment. Not far from the tomb is Jacob's Well,
where Christ met the Woman of Samaria. This place is also considered as authentic, for the
same reasons. If not wholly convincing to all, there is, at least, so much probability in them
that one is freed from that painful coldness and incredulity with which he beholds the sacred
shows of Jerusalem.

Leaving the Tomb of Joseph, the road turned to the west, and entered the narrow pass between
Mounts Ebal and Gerizim. The former is a steep, barren peak, clothed with terraces of cactus,
standing on the northern side of the pass. Mount Gerizim is cultivated nearly to the top, and
is truly a mountain of blessing, compared with its neighbor. Through an orchard of grand old
olive-trees, we reached Nablous, which presented a charming picture, with its long mass of
white, dome-topped stone houses, stretching along the foot of Gerizim through a sea of bowery
orchards. The bottom of the valley resembles some old garden run to waste. Abundant streams,
poured from the generous heart of the Mount of Blessing, leap and gurgle with pleasant noises
through thickets of orange, fig, and pomegranate, through bowers of roses and tangled masses
of briars and wild vines. We halted in a grove of olives, and, after our tent was pitched,
walked upward through the orchards to the Ras-el-Ain (Promontory of the Fountain), on the side
of Mount Gerizim. A multitude of beggars sat at the city gate; and, as they continued to clamor
after I had given sufficient alms, I paid them with "Allah deelek!"--(God give it to you!)--the
Moslem's reply to such importunity--and they ceased in an instant. This exclamation, it seems,
takes away from them the power of demanding a second time.

From under the Ras-el-Ain gushes forth the Fountain of Honey, so called from the sweetness
and purity of the water. We drank of it, and I found the taste very agreeable, but my companion
declared that it had an unpleasant woolly flavor. When we climbed a little higher, we found
that the true source from which the fountain is supplied was above, and that an Arab was washing
a flock of sheep in it! We continued our walk along the side of the mountain to the other end
of the city, through gardens of almond, apricot, prune, and walnut-trees, bound each to each
by great vines, whose heavy arms they seemed barely able to support. The interior of the town
is dark and filthy; but it has a long, busy bazaar extending its whole length, and a café,
where we procured the best coffee in Syria.

Nablous is noted for the existence of a small remnant of the ancient Samaritans. The stock
has gradually dwindled away, and amounts to only forty families, containing little more than
a hundred and fifty individuals. They live in a particular quarter of the city, and are easily
distinguished from the other inhabitants by the cast of their features. After our guide, a
native of Nablous, had pointed out three or four, I had no difficulty in recognising all the
others we met. They have long, but not prominent noses, like the Jews; small, oblong eyes,
narrow lips, and fair complexions, most of them having brown hair. They appear to be held in
considerable obloquy by the Moslems. Our attendant, who was of the low class of Arabs, took
the boys we met very unceremoniously by the head, calling out: "Here is another Samaritan!"
He then conducted us to their synagogue, to see the celebrated Pentateuch, which is there preserved.
We were taken to a small, open court, shaded by an apricot-tree, where the priest, an old man
in a green robe and white turban, was seated in meditation. He had a long grey beard, and black
eyes, that lighted up with a sudden expression of eager greed when we promised him backsheesh
for a sight of the sacred book. He arose and took us into a sort of chapel, followed by a number
of Samaritan boys. Kneeling down at a niche in the wall, he produced from behind a wooden case
a piece of ragged parchment, written with Hebrew characters. But the guide was familiar with
this deception, and rated him so soundly that, after a little hesitation, he laid the fragment
away, and produced a large tin cylinder, covered with a piece of green satin embroidered in
gold. The boys stooped down and reverently kissed the blazoned cover, before it was removed.
The cylinder, sliding open by two rows of hinges, opened at the same time the parchment scroll,
which was rolled at both ends. It was, indeed, a very ancient manuscript, and in remarkable
preservation. The rents have been carefully repaired and the scroll neatly stitched upon another
piece of parchment, covered on the outside with violet satin. The priest informed me that it
was written by the son of Aaron; but this does not coincide with the fact that the Samaritan
Pentateuch is different from that of the Jews. It is, however, no doubt one of the oldest parchment
records in the world, and the Samaritans look upon it with unbounded faith and reverence. The
Pentateuch, according to their version, contains their only form of religion. They reject everything
else which the Old Testament contains. Three or four days ago was their grand feast of sacrifice,
when they made a burnt offering of a lamb, on the top of Mount Gerizim. Within a short time,
it is said they have shown some curiosity to become acquainted with the New Testament, and
the High Priest sent to Jerusalem to procure Arabic copies.

I asked one of the wild-eyed boys whether he could read the sacred book. "Oh, yes," said the
priest, "all these boys can read it;" and the one I addressed immediately pulled a volume from
his breast, and commenced reading in fluent Hebrew. It appeared to be a part of their church
service, for both the priest and boab, or door-keeper, kept up a running series of responses,
and occasionally the whole crowd shouted out some deep-mouthed word in chorus. The old man
leaned forward with an expression as fixed and intense as if the text had become incarnate
in him, following with his lips the sound of the boy's voice. It was a strange picture of religious
enthusiasm, and was of itself sufficient to convince me of the legitimacy of the Samaritan's
descent. When I rose to leave I gave him the promised fee, and a smaller one to the boy who
read the service. This was the signal for a general attack from the door-keeper and all the
boys who were present. They surrounded me with eyes sparkling with the desire of gain, kissed
the border of my jacket, stroked my beard coaxingly with their hands, which they then kissed,
and, crowding up with a boisterous show of affection, were about to fall on my neck in a heap,
after the old Hebrew fashion. The priest, clamorous for more, followed with glowing face, and
the whole group had a riotous and bacchanalian character, which I should never have imagined
could spring from such a passion as avarice.

On returning to our camp, we found Mentor and Telemachus arrived, but not on such friendly
terms as their Greek prototypes. We were kept awake for a long time that night by their high
words, and the first sound I heard the next morning came from their tent. Telemachus, I suspect,
had found some island of Calypso, and did not relish the cold shock of the plunge into the
sea, by which Mentor had forced him away. He insisted on returning to Jerusalem, but as Mentor
would not allow him a horse, he had not the courage to try it on foot. After a series of altercations,
in which he took a pistol to shoot the dragoman, and applied very profane terms to everybody
in the company, his wrath dissolved into tears, and when we left, Mentor had decided to rest
a day at Nablous, and let him recover from the effects of the storm.

We rode down the beautiful valley, taking the road to Sebaste (Samaria), while our luggage-mules
kept directly over the mountains to Jenin. Our path at first followed the course of the stream,
between turfy banks and through luxuriant orchards. The whole country we overlooked was planted
with olive-trees, and, except the very summits of the mountains, covered with grain-fields.
For two hours our course was north-east, leading over the hills, and now and then dipping into
beautiful dells. In one of these a large stream gushes from the earth in a full fountain, at
the foot of a great olive-tree. The hill-side above it was a complete mass of foliage, crowned
with the white walls of a Syrian village. Descending the valley, which is very deep, we came
in sight of Samaria, situated on the summit of an isolated hill. The sanctuary of the ancient
Christian church of St. John towers high above the mud walls of the modern village. Riding
between olive-orchards and wheat-fields of glorious richness and beauty, we passed the remains
of an acqueduct, and ascended the hill The ruins of the church occupy the eastern summit. Part
of them have been converted into a mosque, which the Christian foot is not allowed to profane.
The church, which is in the Byzantine style, is apparently of the time of the Crusaders. It
had originally a central and two side-aisles, covered with groined Gothic vaults. The sanctuary
is semi-circular, with a row of small arches, supported by double pillars. The church rests
on the foundations of some much more ancient building--probably a temple belonging to the Roman
city.

Behind the modern village, the hill terminates in a long, elliptical mound, about one-third
of a mile in length. We made the tour of it, and were surprised at finding a large number of
columns, each of a single piece of marble. They had once formed a double colonnade, extending
from the church to a gate on the western side of the summit. Our native guide said they had
been covered with an arch, and constituted a long market or bazaar--a supposition in which
he may be correct. From the gate, which is still distinctly marked, we overlooked several deep
valleys to the west, and over them all, the blue horizon of the Mediterranean, south of Cæsarea.
On the northern side of the hill there are upwards of twenty more pillars standing, besides
a number hurled down, and the remains of a quadrangular colonnade, on the side of the hill
below. The total number of pillars on the summit cannot be less than one hundred, from twelve
to eighteen feet in height. The hill is strewn, even to its base, with large hewn blocks and
fragments of sculptured stone. The present name of the city was given to it by Herod, and it
must have been at that time a most stately and beautiful place.

We descended to a valley on the east, climbed a long ascent, and after crossing the broad shoulder
of a mountain beyond, saw below us a landscape even more magnificent than that of Nablous.
It was a great winding valley, its bottom rolling in waves of wheat and barley, while every
hill-side, up to the bare rock, was mantled with groves of olive. The very summits which looked
into this garden of Israel, were green with fragrant plants--wild thyme and sage, gnaphalium
and camomile. Away to the west was the sea, and in the north-west the mountain chain of Carmel.
We went down to the gardens and pasture-land, and stopped to rest at the Village of Geba, which
hangs on the side of the mountain. A spring of whitish but delicious water gushed out of the
soil, in the midst of a fig orchard. The women passed us, going back and forth with tall water-jars
on their heads. Some herd-boys brought down a flock of black goats, and they were all given
drink in a large wooden bowl. They were beautiful animals, with thick curved horns, white eyes,
and ears a foot long. It was a truly Biblical picture in every feature.

Beyond this valley we passed a circular basin, which has no outlet, so that in winter the bottom
of it must be a lake. After winding among the hills an hour more, we came out upon the town
of Jenin, a Turkish village, with a tall white minaret, at the head of the great plain of Esdraelon.
It is supposed to be the ancient Jezreel, where the termagant Jezebel was thrown out of the
window. We pitched our tent in a garden near the town, under a beautiful mulberry tree, and,
as the place is in very bad repute, engaged a man to keep guard at night. An English family
was robbed there two or three weeks ago. Our guard did his duty well, pacing back and forth,
and occasionally grounding his musket to keep up his courage by the sound. In the evening,
François caught a chameleon, a droll-looking little creature, which changed color in a marvellous
manner.

Our road, next day, lay directly across the Plain of Esdraelon, one of the richest districts
in the world. It is now a green sea, covered with fields of wheat and barley, or great grazing
tracts, on which multitudes of sheep and goats are wandering. In some respects it reminded
me of the Valley of San José, and if I were to liken Palestine to any other country I have
seen, it would be California. The climate and succession of the seasons are the same, the soil
is very similar in quality, and the landscapes present the same general features. Here, in
spring, the plains are covered with that deluge of floral bloom, which makes California seem
a paradise. Here there are the same picturesque groves, the same rank fields of wild oats clothing
the mountain-sides, the same aromatic herbs impregnating the air with balm, and above all,
the same blue, cloudless days and dewless nights. While travelling here, I am constantly reminded
of our new Syria on the Pacific.

Towards noon, Mount Tabor separated itself from the chain of hills before us, and stood out
singly, at the extremity of the plain. We watered our horses at a spring in a swamp, were some
women were collected, beating with sticks the rushes they had gathered to make mats. After
reaching the mountains on the northern side of the plain, an ascent of an hour and a-half,
through a narrow glen, brought us to Nazareth, which is situated in a cul-de-sac, under the
highest peaks of the range. As we were passing a rocky part of the road, Mr. Harrison's horse
fell with him and severely injured his leg. We were fortunately near our destination, and on
reaching the Latin Convent, Fra Joachim, to whose surgical abilities the traveller's book bore
witness, took him in charge. Many others besides ourselves have had reason to be thankful for
the good offices of the Latin monks in Palestine. I have never met with a class more kind,
cordial, and genial. All the convents are bound to take in and entertain all applicants--of
whatever creed or nation--for the space of three days.

In the afternoon, Fra Joachim accompanied me to the Church of the Virgin, which is inclosed
within the walls of the convent. It is built over the supposed site of the house in which the
mother of Christ was living, at the time of the angelic annunciation. Under the high altar,
a flight of steps leads down to the shrine of the Virgin, on the threshold of the house, where
the Angel Gabriel's foot rested, as he stood, with a lily in his hand, announcing the miraculous
conception. The shrine, of white marble and gold, gleaming in the light of golden lamps, stands
under a rough arch of the natural rock, from the side of which hangs a heavy fragment of a
granite pillar, suspended, as the devout believe, by divine power. Fra Joachim informed me
that, when the Moslems attempted to obliterate all tokens of the holy place, this pillar was
preserved by a miracle, that the locality might not be lost to the Christians. At the same
time, he said, the angels of God carried away the wooden house which stood at the entrance
of the grotto; and, after letting it drop in Marseilles, while they rested, picked it up again
and set it down in Loretto, where it still remains. As he said this, there was such entire,
absolute belief in the good monk's eyes, and such happiness in that belief, that not for ten
times the gold on the shrine would I have expressed a doubt of the story. He then bade me kneel,
that I might see the spot where the angel stood, and devoutly repeated a paternoster while
I contemplated the pure plate of snowy marble, surrounded with vases of fragrant flowers, between
which hung cressets of gold, wherein perfumed oils were burning. All the decorations of the
place conveyed the idea of transcendent purity and sweetness; and, for the first time in Palestine,
I wished for perfect faith in the spot. Behind the shrine, there are two or three chambers
in the rock, which served as habitations for the family of the Virgin.

A young Christian Nazarene afterwards conducted me to the House of Joseph, the Carpenter, which
is now inclosed in a little chapel. It is merely a fragment of wall, undoubtedly as old as
the time of Christ, and I felt willing to consider it a genuine relic. There was an honest
roughness about the large stones, inclosing a small room called the carpenter's shop, which
I could not find it in my heart to doubt. Besides, in a quiet country town like Nazareth, which
has never knows such vicissitudes as Jerusalem, much more dependence can be placed on popular
tradition. For the same reason, I looked with reverence on the Table of Christ, also inclosed
within a chapel. This is a large, natural rock, about nine feet by twelve, nearly square, and
quite flat on the top. It is said that it once served as a table for Christ and his Disciples.
The building called the School of Christ, where he went with other children of his age, is
now a church of the Syrian Christians, who were performing a doleful mass, in Arabic, at the
time of my visit. It is a vaulted apartment, about forty feet long, and only the lower part
of the wall is ancient. At each of these places, the Nazarene put into my hand a piece of pasteboard,
on which was printed a prayer in Latin, Italian, and Arabic, with the information that whoever
visited the place, and made the prayer, would be entitled to seven years' indulgence. I duly
read all the prayers, and, accordingly, my conscience ought to be at rest for twenty-one years.

Banias (Cæsarea Philippi), May 10, 1852.

We left Nazareth on the morning of the 8th inst. My companion had done so well under the care
of Fra Joachim that he was able to ride, and our journey was not delayed by his accident. The
benedictions of the good Franciscans accompanied us as we rode away from the Convent, past
the Fountain of the Virgin, and out of the pleasant little valley where the boy Jesus wandered
for many peaceful years. The Christian guide we engaged for Mount Tabor had gone ahead, and
we did not find him until we had travelled for more than two hours among the hills. As we approached
the sacred mountain, we came upon the region of oaks--the first oak I had seen since leaving
Europe last autumn. There are three or four varieties, some with evergreen foliage, and in
their wild luxuriance and the picturesqueness of their forms and groupings, they resemble those
of California. The sea of grass and flowers in which they stood was sprinkled with thick tufts
of wild oats--another point of resemblance to the latter country. But here, there is no gold;
there, no sacred memories.

The guide was waiting for us beside a spring, among the trees. He was a tall youth of about
twenty, with a mild, submissive face, and wore the dark-blue turban, which appears to be the
badge of a native Syrian Christian. I found myself involuntarily pitying him for belonging
to a despised sect. There is no disguising the fact that one feels much more respect for the
Mussulman rulers of the East, than for their oppressed subjects who profess his own faith.
The surest way to make a man contemptible is to treat him contemptuously, and the Oriental
Christians, who have been despised for centuries, are, with some few exceptions, despicable
enough. Now, however, since the East has become a favorite field of travel, and the Frank possesses
an equal dignity with the Moslem, the native Christians are beginning to hold up their heads,
and the return of self-respect will, in the course of time, make them respectable.

Mount Tabor stands a little in advance of the hill-country, with which it is connected only
by a low spur or shoulder, its base being the Plain of Esdraelon. This is probably the reason
why it has been fixed upon as the place of the Transfiguration, as it is not mentioned by name
in the New Testament. The words are: "an high mountain apart," which some suppose to refer
to the position of the mountain, and not to the remoteness of Christ and the three Disciples
from men. The sides of the mountain are covered with clumps of oak, hawthorn and other trees,
in many places overrun with the white honeysuckle, its fingers dropping with odor of nutmeg
and cloves. The ascent, by a steep and winding path, occupied an hour. The summit is nearly
level, and resembles some overgrown American field, or "oak opening." The grass is more than
knee-deep; the trees grow high and strong, and there are tangled thickets and bowers of vines
without end. The eastern and highest end of the mountain is covered with the remains of an
old fortress-convent, once a place of great strength, from the thickness of its walls. In a
sort of cell formed among the ruins we found two monk-hermits. I addressed them in all languages
of which I know a salutation, without effect, but at last made out that they were Wallachians.
They were men of thirty-five, with stupid faces, dirty garments, beards run to waste, and fur
caps. Their cell was a mere hovel, without furniture, except a horrid caricature of the Virgin
and Child, and four books of prayers in the Bulgarian character. One of them walked about knitting
a stocking, and paid no attention to us; but the other, after giving us some deliciously cold
water, got upon a pile of rubbish, and stood regarding us with open mouth while we took breakfast.
So far from this being a cause of annoyance, I felt really glad that our presence had agitated
the stagnant waters of his mind.

The day was hazy and sultry, but the panoramic view from Mount Tabor was still very fine. The
great Plain of Esdraelon lay below us like a vast mosaic of green and brown--jasper and verd-antique.
On the west, Mount Carmel lifted his head above the blue horizon line of the Mediterranean.
Turning to the other side, a strip of the Sea of Galilee glimmered deep down among the hills,
and the Ghor, or the Valley of the Jordan, stretched like a broad gash through them. Beyond
them, the country of Djebel Adjeloun, the ancient Decapolis, which still holds the walls of
Gadara and the temples and theatres of Djerash, faded away into vapor, and, still further to
the south, the desolate hills of Gilead, the home of Jephthah. Mount Hermon is visible when
the atmosphere is clear but we were not able to see it.

From the top of Mount Tabor to Tiberias, on the Sea of Galilee, is a journey of five hours,
through a wild country, with but one single miserable village on the road. At first we rode
through lonely dells, grown with oak and brilliant with flowers, especially the large purple
mallow, and then over broad, treeless tracts of rolling land, but partially cultivated. The
heat was very great; I had no thermometer, but should judge the temperature to have been at
least 95° in the shade. From the edge of the upland tract, we looked down on the Sea of Galilee--a
beautiful sheet of water sunk among the mountains, and more than 300 feet below the level of
the Mediterranean. It lay unruffled in the bottom of the basin, reflecting the peaks of the
bare red mountains beyond it. Tiberias was at our very feet, a few palm trees alone relieving
the nakedness of its dull walls. After taking a welcome drink at the Fountain of Fig-trees,
we descended to the town, which has a desolate and forlorn air. Its walls have been partly
thrown down by earthquakes, and never repaired. We found our tents already pitched on the bank
above the lake, and under one of the tottering towers.

Not a breath of air was stirring; the red hills smouldered in the heat, and the waters of Genesareth
at our feet glimmered with an oily smoothness, unbroken by a ripple. We untwisted our turbans,
kicked off our baggy trowsers, and speedily releasing ourselves from the barbarous restraints
of dress, dipped into the tepid sea and floated lazily out until we could feel the exquisite
coldness of the living springs which sent up their jets from the bottom. I was lying on my
back, moving my fins just sufficiently to keep afloat, and gazing dreamily through half-closed
eyes on the forlorn palms of Tiberias, when a shrill voice hailed me with: "O Howadji, get
out of our way!" There, at the old stone gateway below our tent, stood two Galilean damsels,
with heavy earthen jars upon their heads. "Go away yourselves, O maidens!" I answered, "if
you want us to come out of the water." "But we must fill our pitchers," one of them replied.
"Then fill them at once, and be not afraid; or leave them, and we will fill them for you."
Thereupon they put the pitchers down, but remained watching us very complacently while we sank
the vessels to the bottom of the lake, and let them fill from the colder and purer tide of
the springs. In bringing them back through the water to the gate, the one I propelled before
me happened to strike against a stone, and its fair owner, on receiving it, immediately pointed
to a crack in the side, which she declared I had made, and went off lamenting. After we had
resumed our garments, and were enjoying the pipe of indolence and the coffee of contentment,
she returned and made such an outcry, that I was fain to purchase peace by the price of a new
pitcher. I passed the first hours of-the night in looking out of my tent-door, as I lay, on
the stars sparkling in the bosom of Galilee, like the sheen of Assyrian spears, and the glare
of the great fires kindled on the opposite shore.

The next day, we travelled northward along the lake, passing through continuous thickets of
oleander, fragrant with its heavy pink blossoms. The thistles were more abundant and beautiful
than ever. I noticed, in particular, one with a superb globular flower of a bright blue color,
which would make a choice ornament for our gardens at home. At the north-western head of the
lake, the mountains fall back and leave a large tract of the richest meadow-land, which narrows
away into a deep dell, overhung by high mountain headlands, faced with naked cliffs of red
rock. The features of the landscape are magnificent. Up the dell, I saw plainly the Mount of
Beatitude, beyond which lies the village of Cana of Galilee. In coming up the meadow, we passed
a miserable little village of thatched mud huts, almost hidden by the rank weeds which grew
around them. A withered old crone sat at one of the doors, sunning herself. "What is the name
of this village?" I asked. "It is Mejdel," was her reply. This was the ancient Magdala, the
home of that beautiful but sinful Magdalene, whose repentance has made her one of the brightest
of the Saints. The crystal waters of the lake here lave a shore of the cleanest pebbles. The
path goes winding through oleanders, nebbuks, patches of hollyhock, anise-seed, fennel, and
other spicy plants, while, on the west, great fields of barley stand ripe for the cutting.
In some places, the Fellahs, men and women, were at work, reaping and binding the sheaves.
After crossing this tract, we came to the hill, at the foot of which was a ruined khan, and
on the summit, other undistinguishable ruins, supposed by some to be those of Capernaum. The
site of that exalted town, however, is still a matter of discussion.

We journeyed on in a most sweltering atmosphere over the ascending hills, the valley of the
Upper Jordan lying deep on our right. In a shallow hollow, under one of the highest peaks,
there stands a large deserted khan; over a well of very cold; sweet water, called Bir Youssuf
by the Arabs. Somewhere near it, according to tradition, is the field where Joseph was sold
by his brethren; and the well is, no doubt, looked upon by many as the identical pit into which
he was thrown. A stately Turk of Damascus, with four servants behind him, came riding up as
we were resting in the gateway of the khan, and, in answer to my question, informed me that
the well was so named from Nebbee Youssuf (the Prophet Joseph), and not from Sultan Joseph
Saladin. He took us for his countrymen, accosting me first in Turkish, and, even after I had
talked with him some time in bad Arabic, asked me whether I had been making a pilgrimage to
the tombs of certain holy Moslem saints, in the neighborhood of Jaffa. He joined company with
us, however, and shared his pipe with me, as we continued our journey. We rode for two hours
more over hills bare of trees, but covered thick with grass and herbs, and finally lost our
way. François went ahead, dashing through the fields of barley and lentils, and we reached
the path again, as the Waters of Merom came in sight. We then descended into the Valley of
the Upper Jordan, and encamped opposite the lake, at Ain el-Mellaha (the Fountain of the Salt-Works),
the first source of the sacred river. A stream of water, sufficient to turn half-a-dozen mills,
gushes and gurgles up at the foot of the mountain. There are the remains of an ancient dam,
by which a large pool was formed for the irrigation of the valley. It still supplies a little
Arab mill below the fountain. This is a frontier post, between the jurisdictions of the Pashas
of Jerusalem and Damascus, and the mukkairee of the Greek Caloyer, who left us at Tiberias,
was obliged to pay a duty of seven and a half piastres on fifteen mats, which he had bought
at Jerusalem for one and a half piastres each. The poor man will perhaps make a dozen piastres
(about half a dollar) on these mats at Damascus, after carrying them on his mule for more than
two hundred miles.

We pitched our tents on the grassy meadow below the mill--a charming spot, with Tell el-Khanzir
(the hill of wild boars) just in front, over the Waters of Merom, and the snow-streaked summit
of Djebel esh-Shekh--the great Mount Hermon--towering high above the valley. This is the loftiest
peak of the Anti-Lebanon, and is 10,000 feet above the sea. The next morning, we rode for three
hours before reaching the second spring of the Jordan, at a place which François called Tell
el-Kadi, but which did not at all answer with the description given me by Dr. Robinson, at
Jerusalem. The upper part of the broad valley, whence the Jordan draws his waters, is flat,
moist, and but little cultivated. There are immense herds of sheep, goats, and buffaloes wandering
over it. The people are a dark Arab tribe, and live in tents and miserable clay huts. Where
the valley begins to slope upward towards the hills, they plant wheat, barley, and lentils.
The soil is the fattest brown loam, and the harvests are wonderfully rich. I saw many tracts
of wheat, from half a mile to a mile in extent, which would average forty bushels to the acre.
Yet the ground is never manured, and the Arab plough scratches up but a few inches of the surface.
What a paradise might be made of this country, were it in better hands!

The second spring is not quite so large as Ain el-Mellaha but, like it, pours out a strong
stream from a single source The pool was filled with women, washing the heavy fleeces of their
sheep, and beating the dirt out of their striped camel's hair abas with long poles. We left
it, and entered on a slope of stony ground, forming the head of the valley. The view extended
southward, to the mountains closing the northern cove of the Sea of Galilee. It was a grand,
rich landscape--so rich that its desolation seems forced and unnatural. High on the summit
of a mountain to the west, the ruins of a large Crusader fortress looked down upon us. The
soil, which slowly climbs upward through a long valley between Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon, is
cut with deep ravines. The path is very difficult to find; and while we were riding forward
at random, looking in all directions for our baggage mules, we started up a beautiful gazelle.
At last, about noon, hot, hungry, and thirsty, we reached a swift stream, roaring at the bottom
of a deep ravine, through a bed of gorgeous foliage. The odor of the wild grape-blossoms, which
came up to us, as we rode along the edge, was overpowering in its sweetness. An old bridge
of two arches crossed the stream. There was a pile of rocks against the central pier, and there
we sat and took breakfast in the shade of the maples, while the cold green waters foamed at
our feet. By all the Naiads and Tritons, what a joy there is in beholding a running stream!
The rivers of Lebanon are miracles to me, after my knowledge of the Desert. A company of Arabs,
seven in all, were gathered under the bridge; and, from a flute which one of them blew, I judged
they were taking a pastoral holiday. We kept our pistols beside us; for we did not like their
looks. Before leaving, they told us that the country was full of robbers, and advised us to
be on the lookout. We rode more carefully, after this, and kept with our baggage on reaching
it, An hour after leaving the bridge, we came to a large circular, or rather annular mound,
overgrown with knee-deep grass and clumps of oak-trees. A large stream, of a bright blue color,
gushed down the north side, and after half embracing the mound swept off across the meadows
to the Waters of Merom. There could be no doubt that this was Tell el-Kadi, the site of Dan,
the most northern town of ancient Israel. The mound on which it was built is the crater of
an extinct volcano. The Hebrew word Dan signifies "judge," and Tell el-Kadi, in Arabic, is
"The Hill of the Judge."

The Anti-Lebanon now rose near us, its northern and western slopes green with trees and grass.
The first range, perhaps 5,000 feet in height, shut out the snowy head of Hermon; but still
the view was sublime in its large and harmonious outlines. Our road was through a country resembling
Arcadia--the earth hidden by a dense bed of grass and flowers; thickets of blossoming shrubs;
old, old oaks, with the most gnarled of trunks, the most picturesque of boughs, and the glossiest
of green leaves; olive-trees of amazing antiquity; and, threading and enlivening all, the clear-cold
floods of Lebanon. This was the true haunt of Pan, whose altars are now before me, graven on
the marble crags of Hermon. Looking on those altars, and on the landscape, lovely as a Grecian
dream, I forget that the lament has long been sung:

  "Pan, Pan is dead!"

In another hour, we reached this place, the ancient Cæsarea Philippi, now a poor village, embowered
in magnificent trees, and washed by glorious waters. There are abundant remains of the old
city: fragments of immense walls; broken granite columns; traces of pavements; great blocks
of hewn stone; marble pedestals, and the like. In the rock at the foot of the mountain, there
are several elegant niches, with Greek inscriptions, besides a large natural grotto. Below
them, the water gushes up through the stones, in a hundred streams, forming a flood of considerable
size. We have made our camp in an olive grove near the end of the village, beside an immense
terebinth tree, which is inclosed in an open court, paved with stone. This is the town-hall
of Banias, where the Shekh dispenses justice, and at the same time, the resort of all the idlers
of the place. We went up among them, soon after our arrival, and were given seats of honor
near the Shekh, who talked with me a long time about America. The people exhibit a very sensible
curiosity, desiring to know the extent of our country, the number of inhabitants, the amount
of taxation, the price of grain, and other solid information.

The Shekh and the men of the place inform us that the Druses are infesting the road to Damascus.
This tribe is in rebellion in Djebel Hauaran, on account of the conscription, and some of them,
it appears, have taken refuge in the fastnesses of Hermon, where they are beginning to plunder
travellers. While I was talking with the Shekh, a Druse came down from the mountains, and sat
for half an hour among the villagers, under the terebinth, and we have just heard that he has
gone back the way he came. This fact has given us some anxiety, as he may have been a spy sent
down to gather news and, if so, we are almost certain to be waylaid. If we were well armed,
we should not fear a dozen, but all our weapons consist of a sword and four pistols. After
consulting together, we decided to apply to the Shekh for two armed men, to accompany us. I
accordingly went to him again, and exhibited the firman of the Pasha of Jerusalem, which he
read, stating that, even without it, he would have felt it his duty to grant our request. This
is the graceful way in which the Orientals submit to a peremptory order. He thinks that one
man will be sufficient, as we shall probably not meet with any large party.

The day has been, and still is, excessively hot. The atmosphere is sweltering, and all around
us, over the thick patches of mallow and wild mustard, the bees are humming with a continuous
sultry sound. The Shekh, with a number of lazy villagers, is still seated under the terebinth,
in a tent of shade, impervious to the sun. I can hear the rush of the fountains of Banias--the
holy springs of Hermon, whence Jordan is born. But what is this? The odor of the velvety weed
of Shiraz meets my nostrils; a dark-eyed son of Pan places the narghileh at my feet; and, bubbling
more sweetly than the streams of Jordan, the incense most dear to the god dims the crystal
censer, and floats from my lips in rhythmic ejaculations. I, too, am in Arcadia!

Damascus, May 12, 1852.

We rose early, so as to be ready for a long march. The guard came--a mild-looking Arab--without
arms; but on our refusing to take him thus, he brought a Turkish musket, terrible to behold,
but quite guiltless of any murderous intent. We gave ourselves up to fate, with true Arab-resignation,
and began ascending the Anti-Lebanon. Up and up, by stony paths, under the oaks, beside the
streams, and between the wheat-fields, we climbed for two hours, and at last reached a comb
or dividing ridge, whence we could look into a valley on the other side, or rather inclosed
between the main chain and the offshoot named Djebel Heish, which stretches away towards the
south-east. About half-way up the ascent, we passed the ruined acropolis of Cæsarea Philippi,
crowning the summit of a lower peak. The walls and bastions cover a great extent of ground,
and were evidently used as a stronghold in the Middle Ages.

The valley into which we descended lay directly under one of the peaks of Hermon and the rills
that watered it were fed from his snow-fields. It was inhabited by Druses, but no men were
to be seen, except a few poor husbandmen, ploughing on the mountain-sides. The women, wearing
those enormous horns on their heads which distinguish them from the Mohammedan females, were
washing at a pool below. We crossed the valley, and slowly ascended the height on the opposite
side, taking care to keep with the baggage-mules. Up to this time, we met very few persons;
and we forgot the anticipated perils in contemplating the rugged scenery of the Anti-Lebanon.
The mountain-sides were brilliant with flowers, and many new and beautiful specimens arrested
our attention. The asphodel grew in bunches beside the streams, and the large scarlet anemone
outshone even the poppy, whose color here is the quintessence of flame. Five hours after leaving
Banias, we reached the highest part of the pass--a dreary volcanic region, covered with fragments
of lava. Just at this place, an old Arab met us, and, after scanning us closely, stopped and
accosted Dervish. The latter immediately came running ahead, quite excited with the news that
the old man had seen a company of about fifty Druses descend from the sides of Mount Hermon,
towards the road we were to travel. We immediately ordered the baggage to halt, and Mr. Harrison,
François, and myself rode on to reconnoitre. Our guard, the valiant man of Banias, whose teeth
already chattered with fear, prudently kept with the baggage. We crossed the ridge and watched
the stony mountain-sides for some time; but no spear or glittering gun-barrel could we see.
The caravan was then set in motion; and we had not proceeded far before we met a second company
of Arabs, who informed us that the road was free.

Leaving the heights, we descended cautiously into a ravine with walls of rough volcanic rock
on each side. It was a pass where three men might have stood their ground against a hundred;
and we did not feel thoroughly convinced of our safety till we had threaded its many windings
and emerged upon a narrow valley. A village called Beit Jenn nestled under the rocks; and below
it, a grove of poplar-trees shaded the banks of a rapid stream. We had now fairly crossed the
Anti-Lebanon. The dazzling snows of Mount Hermon overhung us on the west; and, from the opening
of the valley, we looked across a wild, waste country, to the distant range of Djebel Hauaran,
the seat of the present rebellion, and one of the most interesting regions of Syria. I regretted
more than ever not being able to reach it. The ruins of Bozrah, Ezra, and other ancient cities,
would well repay the arduous character of the journey, while the traveller might succeed in
getting some insight into the life and habits of that singular people, the Druses. But now,
and perhaps for some time to come, there is no chance of entering the Hauaran.

Towards the middle of the afternoon, we reached a large village, which is usually the end of
the first day's journey from Banias. Our men wanted to stop here, but we considered that to
halt then would be to increase the risk, and decided to push on to Katana, four hours' journey
from Damascus. They yielded with a bad grace; and we jogged on over the stony road, crossing
the long hills which form the eastern base of the Anti-Lebanon. Before long, another Arab met
us with the news that there was an encampment of Druses on the plain between us and Katana.
At this, our guard, who had recovered sufficient spirit to ride a few paces in advance, fell
back, and the impassive Dervish became greatly agitated. Where there is an uncertain danger,
it is always better to go ahead than to turn back; and we did so. But the guard reined up on
the top of the first ridge, trembling as he pointed to a distant hill, and cried out: "Ahò,
ahò henàk!" (There they are!) There were, in fact, the shadows of some rocks, which bore a
faint resemblance to tents. Before sunset, we reached the last declivity of the mountains,
and saw far in the dusky plain, the long green belt of the gardens of Damascus, and here and
there the indistinct glimmer of a minaret. Katana, our resting-place for the night, lay below
us, buried in orchards of olive and orange. We pitched our tents on the banks of a beautiful
stream, enjoyed the pipe of tranquillity, after our long march, and soon forgot the Druses,
in a slumber that lasted unbroken till dawn.

In the morning we sent back the man of Banias, left the baggage to take care of itself, and
rode on to Damascus, as fast as our tired horses could carry us. The plain, at first barren
and stony, became enlivened with vineyards and fields of wheat, as we advanced. Arabs were
everywhere at work, ploughing and directing the water-courses. The belt of living green, the
bower in which the great city, the Queen of the Orient, hides her beauty, drew nearer and nearer,
stretching out a crescent of foliage for miles on either hand, that gradually narrowed and
received us into its cool and fragrant heart. We sank into a sea of olive, pomegranate, orange,
plum, apricot, walnut, and plane trees, and were lost. The sun sparkled in the rolling surface
above; but we swam through the green depths, below his reach, and thus, drifted on through
miles of shade, entered the city.

Since our arrival, I find that two other parties of travellers, one of which crossed the Anti-Lebanon
on the northern side of Mount Hermon, were obliged to take guards, and saw several Druse spies
posted on the heights, as they passed. A Russian gentleman travelling from here to Tiberias,
was stopped three times on the road, and only escaped being plundered from the fact of his
having a Druse dragoman. The disturbances are more serious than I had anticipated. Four regiments
left here yesterday, sent to the aid of a company of cavalry, which is surrounded by the rebels
in a valley of Dejebel Hauaran, and unable to get out.

  "Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the
  waters of Israel?"--2 Kings, v. 12.

Damascus, Wednesday, May 19, 1852.

Damascus is considered by many travellers as the best remaining type of an Oriental city. Constantinople
is semi-European; Cairo is fast becoming so; but Damascus, away from the highways of commerce,
seated alone between the Lebanon and the Syrian Desert, still retains, in its outward aspect
and in the character of its inhabitants, all the pride and fancy and fanaticism of the times
of the Caliphs. With this judgment, in general terms, I agree; but not to its ascendancy, in
every respect, over Cairo. True, when you behold Damascus from the Salahiyeh, the last slope
of the Anti-Lebanon, it is the realization of all that you have dreamed of Oriental splendor;
the world has no picture more dazzling. It is Beauty carried to the Sublime, as I have felt
when overlooking some boundless forest of palms within the tropics. From the hill, whose ridges
heave behind you until in the south they rise to the snowy head of Mount Hermon, the great
Syrian plain stretches away to the Euphrates, broken at distances of ten and fifteen miles,
by two detached mountain chains. In a terrible gorge at your side, the river Barrada, the ancient
Pharpar, forces its way to the plain, and its waters, divided into twelve different channels,
make all between you and those blue island-hills of the desert, one great garden, the boundaries
of which your vision can barely distinguish. Its longest diameter cannot be less than twenty
miles. You look down on a world of foliage, and fruit, and blossoms, whose hue, by contrast
with the barren mountains and the yellow rim of the desert which incloses it, seems brighter
than all other gardens in the world. Through its centre, following the course of the river,
lies Damascus; a line of white walls, topped with domes and towers and tall minarets, winding
away for miles through the green sea. Nothing less than a city of palaces, whose walls are
marble and whose doors are ivory and pearl, could keep up the enchantment of that distant view.

We rode for an hour through the gardens before entering the gate. The fruit-trees, of whatever
variety---walnut, olive, apricot, or fig--were the noblest of their kind. Roses and pomegranates
in bloom starred the dark foliage, and the scented jasmine overhung the walls. But as we approached
the city, the view was obscured by high mud walls on either side of the road, and we only caught
glimpses now and then of the fragrant wilderness. The first street we entered was low and mean,
the houses of clay. Following this, we came to an uncovered bazaar, with rude shops on either
side, protected by mats stretched in front and supported by poles. Here all sorts of common
stuns and utensils were sold, and the street was filled with crowds of Fellahs and Desert Arabs.
Two large sycamores shaded it, and the Seraglio of the Pasha of Damascus, a plain two-story
building, faced the entrance of the main bazaar, which branched off into the city. We turned
into this, and after passing through several small bazaars stocked with dried fruits, pipes
and pipe-bowls, groceries, and all the primitive wares of the East, reached a large passage,
covered with a steep wooden roof, and entirely occupied by venders of silk stuffs. Out of this
we passed through another, devoted to saddles and bridles; then another, full of spices, and
at last reached the grand bazaar, where all the richest stuffs of Europe and the East were
displayed in the shops. We rode slowly along through the cool twilight, crossed here and there
by long pencils of white light, falling through apertures in the roof, and illuminating the
gay turbans and silk caftans of the lazy merchants. But out of this bazaar, at intervals, opened
the grand gate of a khan, giving us a view of its marble court, its fountains, and the dark
arches of its storerooms; or the door of a mosque, with its mosaic floor and pillared corridor.
The interminable lines of bazaars, with their atmospheres of spice and fruit and fragrant tobacco,
the hushed tread of the slippered crowds; the plash of falling fountains and the bubbling of
innumerable narghilehs; the picturesque merchants and their customers, no longer in the big
trowsers of Egypt, but the long caftans and abas of Syria; the absence of Frank faces and dresses--in
all these there was the true spirit of the Orient, and so far, we were charmed with Damascus.

At the hotel in the Soog el-Haràb, or Frank quarter, the illusion was not dissipated. It had
once been the house of some rich merchant. The court into which we were ushered is paved with
marble, with a great stone basin, surrounded with vases of flowering plants, in the centre.
Two large lemon trees shade the entrance, and a vine, climbing to the top of the house, makes
a leafy arbor over the flat roof. The walls of the house are painted in horizontal bars of
blue, white, orange and white--a gay grotesqueness of style which does not offend the eye under
an eastern sun. On the southern side of the court is the liwan, an arrangement for which the
houses of Damascus are noted. It is a vaulted apartment, twenty feet high, entirely open towards
the court, except a fine pointed arch at the top, decorated with encaustic ornaments of the
most brilliant colors. In front, a tesselated pavement of marble leads to the doors of the
chambers on each side. Beyond this is a raised floor covered with matting, and along the farther
end a divan, whose piled cushions are the most tempting trap ever set to catch a lazy man.
Although not naturally indolent, I find it impossible to resist the fascination of this lounge.
Leaning back, cross-legged, against the cushions, with the inseparable pipe in one's hand,
the view of the court, the water-basin, the flowers and lemon trees, the servants and dragomen
going back and forth, or smoking their narghilehs in the shade--all framed in the beautiful
arched entrance, is so perfectly Oriental, so true a tableau from the times of good old Haroun
Al-Raschid, that one is surprised to find how many hours have slipped away while he has been
silently enjoying it.

Opposite the liwan is a large room paved with marble, with a handsome fountain in the centre.
It is the finest in the hotel, and now occupied by Lord Dalkeith and his friends. Our own room
is on the upper floor, and is so rich in decorations that I have not yet finished the study
of them. Along the side, looking down on the court, we have a mosaic floor of white, red, black
and yellow marble. Above this is raised a second floor, carpeted and furnished in European
style. The walls, for a height of ten feet, are covered with wooden panelling, painted with
arabesque devices in the gayest colors, and along the top there is a series of Arabic inscriptions
in gold. There are a number of niches or open closets in the walls, whose arched tops are adorned
with pendent wooden ornaments, resembling stalactites, and at the corners of the room the heavy
gilded and painted cornice drops into similar grotesque incrustations. A space of bare white
wall intervenes between this cornice and the ceiling, which is formed of slim poplar logs,
laid side by side, and so covered with paint and with scales and stripes and network devices
in gold and silver, that one would take them to be clothed with the skins of the magic serpents
that guard the Valley of Diamonds. My most satisfactory remembrance of Damascus will be this room.

My walks through the city have been almost wholly confined to the bazaars, which are of immense
extent. One can walk for many miles, without going beyond the cover of their peaked wooden
roofs, and in all this round will find no two precisely alike. One is devoted entirely to soap;
another to tobacco, through which you cough and sneeze your way to the bazaar of spices, and
delightedly inhale its perfumed air. Then there is the bazaar of sweetmeats; of vegetables;
of red slippers; of shawls; of caftans; of bakers and ovens; of wooden ware; of jewelry---a
great stone building, covered with vaulted passages; of Aleppo silks; of Baghdad carpets; of
Indian stuffs; of coffee; and so on, through a seemingly endless variety. As I have already
remarked, along the line of the bazaars are many khans, the resort of merchants from all parts
of Turkey and Persia, and even India. They are large, stately buildings, and some of them have
superb gateways of sculptured marble. The interior courts are paved with stone, with fountains
in the centre, and many of them are covered with domes resting on massive pillars. The largest
has a roof of nine domes, supported by four grand pillars, which inclose a fountain. The mosques,
into which no Christian is allowed to enter, are in general inferior to those of Cairo, but
their outer courts are always paved with marble, adorned with fountains, and surrounded by
light and elegant corridors. The grand mosque is an imposing edifice, and is said to occupy
the site of a former Christian church.

Another pleasant feature of the city is its coffee shops, which abound in the bazaars and on
the outskirts of the gardens, beside the running streams. Those in the bazaars are spacious
rooms with vaulted ceilings, divans running around the four walls, and fountains in the centre.
During the afternoon they are nearly always filled with Turks, Armenians and Persians, smoking
the narghileh, or water-pipe, which is the universal custom in Damascus. The Persian tobacco,
brought here by the caravans from Baghdad, is renowned for this kind of smoking. The most popular
coffee-shop is near the citadel, on the banks and over the surface of the Pharpar. It is a
rough wooden building, with a roof of straw mats, but the sight and sound of the rushing waters,
as they shoot away with arrowy swiftness under your feet, the shade of the trees that line
the banks, and the cool breeze that always visits the spot, beguile you into a second pipe
ere you are aware. "El mà, wa el khòdra, wa el widj el hassàn--water, verdure and a beautiful
face," says an old Arab proverb, "are three things which delight the heart," and the Syrians
avow that all three are to be found in Damascus. Not only on the three Sundays of each week,
but every day, in the gardens about the city, you may see whole families (and if Jews or Christians,
many groups of families) spending the day in the shade, beside the beautiful waters. There
are several gardens fitted up purposely for these picnics, with kiosks, fountains and pleasant
seats under the trees. You bring your pipes, your provisions and the like with you, but servants
are in attendance to furnish fire and water and coffee, for which, on leaving, you give them
a small gratuity. Of all the Damascenes I have yet seen, there is not one but declares his
city to be the Garden of the World, the Pearl of the Orient, and thanks God and the Prophet
for having permitted him to be born and to live in it. But, except the bazaars, the khans and
the baths, of which there are several most luxurious establishments, the city itself is neither
so rich nor so purely Saracenic in its architecture as Cairo. The streets are narrow and dirty,
and the houses, which are never more than two low stories in height, are built of sun-dried
bricks, coated with plaster. I miss the solid piles of stone, the elegant doorways, and, above
all, the exquisite hanging balconies of carved wood, which meet one in the old streets of Cairo.
Damascus is the representative of all that is gay, brilliant, and picturesque, in Oriental
life; but for stately magnificence, Cairo, and, I suspect, Baghdad, is its superior.

We visited the other day the houses of some of the richest Jews and Christians. Old Abou-Ibrahim,
the Jewish servant of the hotel, accompanied and introduced us. It is customary for travellers
to make these visits, and the families, far from being annoyed, are flattered by it. The exteriors
of the houses are mean; but after threading a narrow passage, we emerged into a court, rivalling
in profusion of ornament and rich contrast of colors one's early idea of the Palace of Aladdin.
The floors and fountains are all of marble mosaic; the arches of the liwan glitter with gold,
and the walls bewilder the eye with the intricacy of their adornments. In the first house,
we were received by the family in a room of precious marbles, with niches in the walls, resembling
grottoes of silver stalactites. The cushions of the divan were of the richest silk, and a chandelier
of Bohemian crystal hung from the ceiling. Silver narghilehs were brought to us, and coffee
was served in heavy silver zerfs. The lady of the house was a rather corpulent lady of about
thirty-five, and wore a semi-European robe of embroidered silk and lace, with full trowsers
gathered at the ankles, and yellow slippers. Her black hair was braided, and fastened at the
end with golden ornaments, and the light scarf twisted around her head blazed with diamonds.
The lids of her large eyes were stained with kohl, and her eyebrows were plucked out and shaved
away so as to leave only a thin, arched line, as if drawn with a pencil, above each eye. Her
daughter, a girl of fifteen, who bore the genuine Hebrew name of Rachel, had even bigger and
blacker eyes than her mother; but her forehead was low, her mouth large, and the expression
of her face exceedingly stupid. The father of the family was a middle-aged man, with a well-bred
air, and talked with an Oriental politeness which was very refreshing. An English lady, who
was of our party, said to him, through me, that if she possessed such a house she should be
willing to remain in Damascus. "Why does she leave, then?" he immediately answered: "this is
her house, and everything that is in it." Speaking of visiting Jerusalem, he asked me whether
it was not a more beautiful city than Damascus. "It is not more beautiful," I said, "but it
is more holy," an expression which the whole company received with great satisfaction.

The second house we visited was even larger and richer than the first, but had an air of neglect
and decay. The slabs of rich marble were loose and broken, about the edges of the fountains;
the rich painting of the wood-work was beginning to fade; and the balustrades leading to the
upper chambers were broken off in places. We were ushered into a room, the walls and ceilings
of which were composed entirely of gilded arabesque frame-work, set with small mirrors. When
new, it must have had a gorgeous effect; but the gold is now tarnished, and the glasses dim.
The mistress of the house was seated on the cushions, dividing her time between her pipe and
her needle-work. She merely made a slight inclination of her head as we entered, and went on
with her occupation. Presently her two daughters and an Abyssinian slave appeared, and took
their places on the cushions at her feet, the whole forming a charming group, which I regretted
some of my artist friends at home could not see. The mistress was so exceedingly dignified,
that she bestowed but few words on us. She seemed to resent our admiration of the slave, who
was a most graceful creature; yet her jealousy, it afterwards appeared, had reference to her
own husband, for we had scarcely left, when a servant followed to inform the English lady that
if she was willing to buy the Abyssinian, the mistress would sell her at once for two thousand
piastres.

The last visit we paid was to the dwelling of a Maronite, the richest Christian in Damascus.
The house resembled those we had already seen, except that, having been recently built, it
was in better condition, and exhibited better taste in the ornaments. No one but the lady was
allowed to enter the female apartments, the rest of us being entertained by the proprietor,
a man of fifty, and without exception the handsomest and most dignified person of that age
I have ever seen. He was a king without a throne, and fascinated me completely by the noble
elegance of his manner. In any country but the Orient, I should have pronounced him incapable
of an unworthy thought: here, he may be exactly the reverse.

Although Damascus is considered the oldest city in the world, the date of its foundation going
beyond tradition, there are very few relics of antiquity in or near it. In the bazaar are three
large pillars, supporting half the pediment, which are said to have belonged to the Christian
Church of St. John, but, if so, that church must have been originally a Roman temple. Part
of the Roman walls and one of the city gates remain; and we saw the spot where, according to
tradition, Saul was let down from the wall in a basket. There are two localities pointed out
as the scene of his conversion, which, from his own account, occurred near the city. I visited
a subterranean chapel claimed by the Latin monks to be the cellar of the house of Ananias,
in which the Apostle was concealed. The cellar is, undoubtedly, of great antiquity; but as
the whole quarter was for many centuries inhabited wholly by Turks, it would be curious to
know how the monks ascertained which was the house of Ananias. As for the "street called Straight,"
it would be difficult at present to find any in Damascus corresponding to that epithet.

The famous Damascus blades, so renowned in the time of the Crusaders, are made here no longer.
The art has been lost for three or four centuries. Yet genuine old swords, of the true steel,
are occasionally to be found. They are readily distinguished from modern imitations by their
clear and silvery ring when struck, and by the finely watered appearance of the blade, produced
by its having been first made of woven wire, and then worked over and over again until it attained
the requisite temper. A droll Turk, who is the shekh ed-dellàl, or Chief of the Auctioneers,
and is nicknamed Abou-Anteeka (the Father of the Antiques), has a large collection of sabres,
daggers, pieces of mail, shields, pipes, rings, seals, and other ancient articles. He demands
enormous prices, but generally takes about one-third of what he first asks. I have spent several
hours in his curiosity shop, bargaining for turquoise rings, carbuncles, Persian amulets, and
Circassian daggers. While looking over some old swords the other day, I noticed one of exquisite
temper, but with a shorter blade than usual. The point had apparently been snapped off in fight,
but owing to the excellence of the sword, or the owner's affection for it, the steel had been
carefully shaped into a new point. Abou-Anteeka asked five hundred piastres, and I, who had
taken a particular fancy to possess it, offered him two hundred in an indifferent way, and
then laid it aside to examine other articles. After his refusal to accept my offer, I said
nothing more, and was leaving the shop, when the old fellow called me back, saying: "You have
forgotten your sword,"--which I thereupon took at my own price. I have shown it to Mr. Wood,
the British Consul, who pronounced it an extremely fine specimen of Damascus steel; and, on
reading the inscription enamelled upon the blade, ascertains that it was made in the year of
the Hegira, 181, which corresponds to A.D. 798. This was during the Caliphate of Haroun Al-Raschid,
and who knows but the sword may have once flashed in the presence of that great and glorious
sovereign--nay, been drawn by his own hand! Who knows but that the Milan armor of the Crusaders
may have shivered its point, on the field of Askalon! I kiss the veined azure of thy blade,
O Sword of Haroun! I hang the crimson cords of thy scabbard upon my shoulder, and thou shalt
henceforth clank in silver music at my side, singing to my ear, and mine alone, thy chants
of battle, thy rejoicing songs of slaughter!

Yesterday evening, three gentlemen of Lord Dalkeith's party arrived from a trip to Palmyra.
The road thither lies through a part of the Syrian Desert belonging to the Aneyzeh tribe, who
are now supposed to be in league with the Druses, against the Government. Including this party,
only six persons have succeeded in reaching Palmyra within a year, and two of them, Messrs.
Noel and Cathcart, were imprisoned four days by the Arabs, and only escaped by the accidental
departure of a caravan for Damascus. The present party was obliged to travel almost wholly
by night, running the gauntlet of a dozen Arab encampments, and was only allowed a day's stay
at Palmyra. They were all disguised as Bedouins, and took nothing with them but the necessary
provisions. They made their appearance here last evening, in long, white abas, with the Bedouin
keffie bound over their heads, their faces burnt, their eyes inflamed, and their frames feverish
with seven days and nights of travel. The shekh who conducted them was not an Aneyzeh, and
would have lost his life had they fallen in with any of that tribe.

Chapter X.

The Visions of Hasheesh.

  "Exulting, trembling, raging, fainting,
  Possessed beyond the Muse's painting."

  Collins.

During my stay in Damascus, that insatiable curiosity which leads me to prefer the acquisition
of all lawful knowledge through the channels of my own personal experience, rather than in
less satisfactory and less laborious ways, induced me to make a trial of the celebrated Hasheesh--that
remarkable drug which supplies the luxurious Syrian with dreams more alluring and more gorgeous
than the Chinese extracts from his darling opium pipe. The use of Hasheesh--which is a preparation
of the dried leaves of the cannabis indica--has been familiar to the East for many centuries.
During the Crusades, it was frequently used by the Saracen warriors to stimulate them to the
work of slaughter, and from the Arabic term of "Hashasheën," or Eaters of Hasheesh, as applied
to them, the word "assassin" has been naturally derived. An infusion of the same plant gives
to the drink called "bhang," which is in common use throughout India and Malaysia, its peculiar
properties. Thus prepared, it is a more fierce and fatal stimulant than the paste of sugar
and spices to which the Turk resorts, as the food of his voluptuous evening reveries. While
its immediate effects seem to be more potent than those of opium, its habitual use, though
attended with ultimate and permanent injury to the system, rarely results in such utter wreck
of mind and body as that to which the votaries of the latter drug inevitably condemn themselves.

A previous experience of the effects of hasheesh--which I took once, and in a very mild form,
while in Egypt--was so peculiar in its character, that my curiosity, instead of being satisfied,
only prompted me the more to throw myself, for once, wholly under its influence. The sensations
it then produced were those, physically, of exquisite lightness and airiness--of a wonderfully
keen perception of the ludicrous, in the most simple and familiar objects. During the half
hour in which it lasted, I was at no time so far under its control, that I could not, with
the clearest perception, study the changes through which I passed. I noted, with careful attention,
the fine sensations which spread throughout the whole tissue of my nervous fibre, each thrill
helping to divest my frame of its earthy and material nature, until my substance appeared to
me no grosser than the vapors of the atmosphere, and while sitting in the calm of the Egyptian
twilight, I expected to be lifted up and carried away by the first breeze that should ruffle
the Nile. While this process was going on, the objects by which I was surrounded assumed a
strange and whimsical expression. My pipe, the oars which my boatmen plied, the turban worn
by the captain, the water-jars and culinary implements, became in themselves so inexpressibly
absurd and comical, that I was provoked into a long fit of laughter. The hallucination died
away as gradually as it came, leaving me overcome with a soft and pleasant drowsiness, from
which I sank into a deep, refreshing sleep.

My companion and an English gentleman, who, with his wife, was also residing in Antonio's pleasant
caravanserai--agreed to join me in the experiment. The dragoman of the latter was deputed to
procure a sufficient quantity of the drug. He was a dark Egyptian, speaking only the lingua
franca of the East, and asked me, as he took the money and departed on his mission, whether
he should get hasheesh "per ridere, a per dormire?" "Oh, per ridere, of course," I answered;
"and see that it be strong and fresh." It is customary with the Syrians to take a small portion
immediately before the evening meal, as it is thus diffused through the stomach and acts more
gradually, as well as more gently, upon the system. As our dinner-hour was at sunset, I proposed
taking hasheesh at that time, but my friends, fearing that its operation might be more speedy
upon fresh subjects, and thus betray them into some absurdity in the presence of the other
travellers, preferred waiting until after the meal. It was then agreed that we should retire
to our room, which, as it rose like a tower one story higher than the rest of the building,
was in a manner isolated, and would screen us from observation.

We commenced by taking a tea-spoonful each of the mixture which Abdallah had procured. This
was about the quantity I had taken in Egypt, and as the effect then had been so slight, I judged
that we ran no risk of taking an over-dose. The strength of the drug, however, must have been
far greater in this instance, for whereas I could in the former case distinguish no flavor
but that of sugar and rose leaves, I now found the taste intensely bitter and repulsive to
the palate. We allowed the paste to dissolve slowly on our tongues, and sat some time, quietly
waiting the result. But, having been taken upon a full stomach, its operation was hindered,
and after the lapse of nearly an hour, we could not detect the least change in our feelings.
My friends loudly expressed their conviction of the humbug of hasheesh, but I, unwilling to
give up the experiment at this point, proposed that we should take an additional half spoonful,
and follow it with a cup of hot tea, which, if there were really any virtue in the preparation,
could not fail to call it into action. This was done, though not without some misgivings, as
we were all ignorant of the precise quantity which constituted a dose, and the limits within
which the drug could be taken with safety. It was now ten o'clock; the streets of Damascus
were gradually becoming silent, and the fair city was bathed in the yellow lustre of the Syrian
moon. Only in the marble court-yard below us, a few dragomen and mukkairee lingered under the
lemon-trees, and beside the fountain in the centre.

I was seated alone, nearly in the middle of the room, talking with my friends, who were lounging
upon a sofa placed in a sort of alcove, at the farther end, when the same fine nervous thrill,
of which I have spoken, suddenly shot through me. But this time it was accompanied with a burning
sensation at the pit of the stomach; and, instead of growing upon me with the gradual pace
of healthy slumber, and resolving me, as before, into air, it came with the intensity of a
pang, and shot throbbing along the nerves to the extremities of my body. The sense of limitation---of
the confinement of our senses within the bounds of our own flesh and blood--instantly fell
away. The walls of my frame were burst outward and tumbled into ruin; and, without thinking
what form I wore--losing sight even of all idea of form--I felt that I existed throughout a
vast extent of space. The blood, pulsed from my heart, sped through uncounted leagues before
it reached my extremities; the air drawn into my lungs expanded into seas of limpid ether,
and the arch of my skull was broader than the vault of heaven. Within the concave that held
my brain, were the fathomless deeps of blue; clouds floated there, and the winds of heaven
rolled them together, and there shone the orb of the sun. It was--though I thought not of that
at the time--like a revelation of the mystery of omnipresence. It is difficult to describe
this sensation, or the rapidity with which it mastered me. In the state of mental exaltation
in which I was then plunged, all sensations, as they rose, suggested more or less coherent
images. They presented themselves to me in a double form: one physical, and therefore to a
certain extent tangible; the other spiritual, and revealing itself in a succession of splendid
metaphors. The physical feeling of extended being was accompanied by the image of an exploding
meteor, not subsiding into darkness, but continuing to shoot from its centre or nucleus--which
corresponded to the burning spot at the pit of my stomach--incessant adumbrations of light
that finally lost themselves in the infinity of space. To my mind, even now, this image is
still the best illustration of my sensations, as I recall them; but I greatly doubt whether
the reader will find it equally clear.

My curiosity was now in a way of being satisfied; the Spirit (demon, shall I not rather say?)
of Hasheesh had entire possession of me. I was cast upon the flood of his illusions, and drifted
helplessly whithersoever they might choose to bear me. The thrills which ran through my nervous
system became more rapid and fierce, accompanied with sensations that steeped my whole being
in unutterable rapture. I was encompassed by a sea of light, through which played the pure,
harmonious colors that are born of light. While endeavoring, in broken expressions, to describe
my feelings to my friends, who sat looking upon me incredulously--not yet having been affected
by the drug--I suddenly found myself at the foot of the great Pyramid of Cheops. The tapering
courses of yellow limestone gleamed like gold in the sun, and the pile rose so high that it
seemed to lean for support upon the blue arch of the sky. I wished to ascend it, and the wish
alone placed me immediately upon its apex, lifted thousands of feet above the wheat-fields
and palm-groves of Egypt. I cast my eyes downward, and, to my astonishment, saw that it was
built, not of limestone, but of huge square plugs of Cavendish tobacco! Words cannot paint
the overwhelming sense of the ludicrous which I then experienced. I writhed on my chair in
an agony of laughter, which was only relieved by the vision melting away like a dissolving
view; till, out of my confusion of indistinct images and fragments of images, another and more
wonderful vision arose.

The more vividly I recall the scene which followed, the more carefully I restore its different
features, and separate the many threads of sensation which it wove into one gorgeous web, the
more I despair of representing its exceeding glory. I was moving over the Desert, not upon
the rocking dromedary, but seated in a barque made of mother-of-pearl, and studded with jewels
of surpassing lustre. The sand was of grains of gold, and my keel slid through them without
jar or sound. The air was radiant with excess of light, though no sun was to be seen. I inhaled
the most delicious perfumes; and harmonies, such as Beethoven may have heard in dreams, but
never wrote, floated around me. The atmosphere itself was light, odor, music; and each and
all sublimated beyond anything the sober senses are capable of receiving. Before me--for a
thousand leagues, as it seemed--stretched a vista of rainbows, whose colors gleamed with the
splendor of gems--arches of living amethyst, sapphire, emerald, topaz, and ruby. By thousands
and tens of thousands, they flew past me, as my dazzling barge sped down the magnificent arcade;
yet the vista still stretched as far as ever before me. I revelled in a sensuous elysium, which
was perfect, because no sense was left ungratified. But beyond all, my mind was filled with
a boundless feeling of triumph. My journey was that of a conqueror--not of a conqueror who
subdues his race, either by Love or by Will, for I forgot that Man existed--but one victorious
over the grandest as well as the subtlest forces of Nature. The spirits of Light, Color, Odor,
Sound, and Motion were my slaves; and, having these, I was master of the universe.

Those who are endowed to any extent with the imaginative faculty, must have at least once in
their lives experienced feelings which may give them a clue to the exalted sensuous raptures
of my triumphal march. The view of a sublime mountain landscape, the hearing of a grand orchestral
symphony, or of a choral upborne by the "full-voiced organ," or even the beauty and luxury
of a cloudless summer day, suggests emotions similar in kind, if less intense. They took a
warmth and glow from that pure animal joy which degrades not, but spiritualizes and ennobles
our material part, and which differs from cold, abstract, intellectual enjoyment, as the flaming
diamond of the Orient differs from the icicle of the North. Those finer senses, which occupy
a middle ground between our animal and intellectual appetites, were suddenly developed to a
pitch beyond what I had ever dreamed, and being thus at one and the same time gratified to
the fullest extent of their preternatural capacity, the result was a single harmonious sensation,
to describe which human language has no epithet. Mahomet's Paradise, with its palaces of ruby
and emerald, its airs of musk and cassia, and its rivers colder than snow and sweeter than
honey, would have been a poor and mean terminus for my arcade of rainbows. Yet in the character
of this paradise, in the gorgeous fancies of the Arabian Nights, in the glow and luxury of
all Oriental poetry, I now recognize more or less of the agency of hasheesh.

The fulness of my rapture expanded the sense of time; and though the whole vision was probably
not more than five minutes in passing through my mind, years seemed to have elapsed while I
shot under the dazzling myriads of rainbow arches. By and by, the rainbows, the barque of pearl
and jewels, and the desert of golden sand, vanished; and, still bathed in light and perfume,
I found myself in a land of green and flowery lawns, divided by hills of gently undulating
outline. But, although the vegetation was the richest of earth, there were neither streams
nor fountains to be seen; and the people who came from the hills, with brilliant garments that
shone in the sun, besought me to give them the blessing of water. Their hands were full of
branches of the coral honeysuckle, in bloom. These I took; and, breaking off the flowers one
by one, set them in the earth. The slender, trumpet-like tubes immediately became shafts of
masonry, and sank deep into the earth; the lip of the flower changed into a circular mouth
of rose-colored marble, and the people, leaning over its brink, lowered their pitchers to the
bottom with cords, and drew them up again, filled to the brim, and dripping with honey.

The most remarkable feature of these illusions was, that at the time when I was most completely
under their influence, I knew myself to be seated in the tower of Antonio's hotel in Damascus,
knew that I had taken hasheesh, and that the strange, gorgeous and ludicrous fancies which
possessed me, were the effect of it. At the very same instant that I looked upon the Valley
of the Nile from the pyramid, slid over the Desert, or created my marvellous wells in that
beautiful pastoral country, I saw the furniture of my room, its mosaic pavement, the quaint
Saracenic niches in the walls, the painted and gilded beams of the ceiling, and the couch in
the recess before me, with my two companions watching me. Both sensations were simultaneous,
and equally palpable. While I was most given up to the magnificent delusion, I saw its cause
and felt its absurdity most clearly. Metaphysicians say that the mind is incapable of performing
two operations at the same time, and may attempt to explain this phenomenon by supposing a
rapid and incessant vibration of the perceptions between the two states. This explanation,
however, is not satisfactory to me; for not more clearly does a skilful musician with the same
breath blow two distinct musical notes from a bugle, than I was conscious of two distinct conditions
of being in the same moment. Yet, singular as it may seem, neither conflicted with the other.
My enjoyment of the visions was complete and absolute, undisturbed by the faintest doubt of
their reality, while, in some other chamber of my brain, Reason sat coolly watching them, and
heaping the liveliest ridicule on their fantastic features. One set of nerves was thrilled
with the bliss of the gods, while another was convulsed with unquenchable laughter at that
very bliss. My highest ecstacies could not bear down and silence the weight of my ridicule,
which, in its turn, was powerless to prevent me from running into other and more gorgeous absurdities.
I was double, not "swan and shadow," but rather, Sphinx-like, human and beast. A true Sphinx,
I was a riddle and a mystery to myself.

The drug, which had been retarded in its operation on account of having been taken after a
meal, now began to make itself more powerfully felt. The visions were more grotesque than ever,
but less agreeable; and there was a painful tension throughout my nervous system--the effect
of over-stimulus. I was a mass of transparent jelly, and a confectioner poured me into a twisted
mould. I threw my chair aside, and writhed and tortured myself for some time to force my loose
substance into the mould. At last, when I had so far succeeded that only one foot remained
outside, it was lifted off, and another mould, of still more crooked and intricate shape, substituted.
I have no doubt that the contortions through which I went, to accomplish the end of my gelatinous
destiny, would have been extremely ludicrous to a spectator, but to me they were painful and
disagreeable. The sober half of me went into fits of laughter over them, and through that laughter,
my vision shifted into another scene. I had laughed until my eyes overflowed profusely. Every
drop that fell, immediately became a large loaf of bread, and tumbled upon the shop-board of
a baker in the bazaar at Damascus. The more I laughed, the faster the loaves fell, until such
a pile was raised about the baker, that I could hardly see the top of his head. "The man will
be suffocated," I cried, "but if he were to die, I cannot stop!"

My perceptions now became more dim and confused. I felt that I was in the grasp of some giant
force; and, in the glimmering of my fading reason, grew earnestly alarmed, for the terrible
stress under which my frame labored increased every moment. A fierce and furious heat radiated
from my stomach throughout my system; my mouth and throat were as dry and hard as if made of
brass, and my tongue, it seemed to me, was a bar of rusty iron. I seized a pitcher of water,
and drank long and deeply; but I might as well have drunk so much air, for not only did it
impart no moisture, but my palate and throat gave me no intelligence of having drunk at all.
I stood in the centre of the room, brandishing my arms convulsively, an heaving sighs that
seemed to shatter my whole being. "Will no one," I cried in distress, "cast out this devil
that has possession of me?" I no longer saw the room nor my friends, but I heard one of them
saying, "It must be real; he could not counterfeit such an expression as that. But it don't
look much like pleasure." Immediately afterwards there was a scream of the wildest laughter,
and my countryman sprang upon the floor, exclaiming, "O, ye gods! I am a locomotive!" This
was his ruling hallucination; and, for the space of two or three hours, he continued to pace
to and fro with a measured stride, exhaling his breath in violent jets, and when he spoke,
dividing his words into syllables, each of which he brought out with a jerk, at the same time
turning his hands at his sides, as if they were the cranks of imaginary wheels, The Englishman,
as soon as he felt the dose beginning to take effect, prudently retreated to his own room,
and what the nature of his visions was, we never learned, for he refused to tell, and, moreover,
enjoined the strictest silence on his wife.

By this time it was nearly midnight. I had passed through the Paradise of Hasheesh, and was
plunged at once into its fiercest Hell. In my ignorance I had taken what, I have since learned,
would have been a sufficient portion for six men, and was now paying a frightful penalty for
my curiosity. The excited blood rushed through my frame with a sound like the roaring of mighty
waters. It was projected into my eyes until I could no longer see; it beat thickly in my ears,
and so throbbed in my heart, that I feared the ribs would give way under its blows. I tore
open my vest, placed my hand over the spot, and tried to count the pulsations; but there were
two hearts, one beating at the rate of a thousand beats a minute, and the other with a slow,
dull motion. My throat, I thought, was filled to the brim with blood, and streams of blood
were pouring from my ears. I felt them gushing warm down my cheeks and neck. With a maddened,
desperate feeling, I fled from the room, and walked over the flat, terraced roof of the house.
My body seemed to shrink and grow rigid as I wrestled with the demon, and my face to become
wild, lean and haggard.

That picture of animal terror and agony was mine. I was the horse, hanging poised on the verge
of the giddy tower, the next moment to be borne sheer down to destruction. Involuntarily, I
raised my hand to feel the leanness and sharpness of my face. Oh horror! the flesh had fallen
from my bones, and it was a skeleton head that I carried on my shoulders! With one bound I
sprang to the parapet, and looked down into the silent courtyard, then filled with the shadows
thrown into it by the sinking moon. Shall I cast myself down headlong? was the question I proposed
to myself; but though the horror of that skeleton delusion was greater than my fear of death,
there was an invisible hand at my breast which pushed me away from the brink.

I made my way back to the room, in a state of the keenest suffering. My companion was still
a locomotive, rushing to and fro, and jerking out his syllables with the disjointed accent
peculiar to a steam-engine. His mouth had turned to brass, like mine, and he raised the pitcher
to his lips in the attempt to moisten it, but before he had taken a mouthful, set the pitcher
down again with a yell of laughter, crying out: "How can I take water into my boiler, while
I am letting off steam?"

But I was now too far gone to feel the absurdity of this, or his other exclamations. I was
sinking deeper and deeper into a pit of unutterable agony and despair. For, although I was
not conscious of real pain in any part of my body, the cruel tension to which my nerves had
been subjected filled me through and through with a sensation of distress which was far more
severe than pain itself. In addition to this, the remnant of will with which I struggled against
the demon, became gradually weaker, and I felt that I should soon be powerless in his hands.
Every effort to preserve my reason was accompanied by a pang of mortal fear, lest what I now
experienced was insanity, and would hold mastery over me for ever. The thought of death, which
also haunted me, was far less bitter than this dread. I knew that in the struggle which was
going on in my frame, I was borne fearfully near the dark gulf, and the thought that, at such
a time, both reason and will were leaving my brain, filled me with an agony, the depth and
blackness of which I should vainly attempt to portray. I threw myself on my bed, with the excited
blood still roaring wildly in my ears, my heart throbbing with a force that seemed to be rapidly
wearing away my life, my throat dry as a pot-sherd, and my stiffened tongue cleaving to the
roof of my mouth--resisting no longer, but awaiting my fate with the apathy of despair.

My companion was now approaching the same condition, but as the effect of the drug on him had
been less violent, so his stage of suffering was more clamorous. He cried out to me that he
was dying, implored me to help him, and reproached me vehemently, because I lay there silent,
motionless, and apparently careless of his danger. "Why will he disturb me?" I thought; "he
thinks he is dying, but what is death to madness? Let him die; a thousand deaths were more
easily borne than the pangs I suffer." While I was sufficiently conscious to hear his exclamations,
they only provoked my keen anger; but after a time, my senses became clouded, and I sank into
a stupor. As near as I can judge, this must have been three o'clock in the morning, rather
more than five hours after the hasheesh began to take effect. I lay thus all the following
day and night, in a state of gray, blank oblivion, broken only by a single wandering gleam
of consciousness. I recollect hearing François' voice. He told me afterwards that I arose,
attempted to dress myself, drank two cups of coffee, and then fell back into the same death-like
stupor; but of all this, I did not retain the least knowledge. On the morning of the second
day, after a sleep of thirty hours, I awoke again to the world, with a system utterly prostrate
and unstrung, and a brain clouded with the lingering images of my visions. I knew where I was,
and what had happened to me, but all that I saw still remained unreal and shadowy. There was
no taste in what I ate, no refreshment in what I drank, and it required a painful effort to
comprehend what was said to me and return a coherent answer. Will and Reason had come back,
but they still sat unsteadily upon their thrones.

My friend, who was much further advanced in his recovery, accompanied me to the adjoining bath,
which I hoped would assist in restoring me. It was with great difficulty that I preserved the
outward appearance of consciousness. In spite of myself, a veil now and then fell over my mind,
and after wandering for years, as it seemed, in some distant world, I awoke with a shock, to
find myself in the steamy halls of the bath, with a brown Syrian polishing my limbs. I suspect
that my language must have been rambling and incoherent, and that the menials who had me in
charge understood my condition, for as soon as I had stretched myself upon the couch which
follows the bath, a glass of very acid sherbet was presented to me, and after drinking it I
experienced instant relief. Still the spell was not wholly broken, and for two or three days
I continued subject to frequent involuntary fits of absence, which made me insensible, for
the time, to all that was passing around me. I walked the streets of Damascus with a strange
consciousness that I was in some other place at the same time, and with a constant effort to
reunite my divided perceptions.

Previous to the experiment, we had decided on making a bargain with the shekh for the journey
to Palmyra. The state, however, in which we now found ourselves, obliged us to relinquish the
plan. Perhaps the excitement of a forced march across the desert, and a conflict with the hostile
Arabs, which was quite likely to happen, might have assisted us in throwing off the baneful
effects of the drug; but all the charm which lay in the name of Palmyra and the romantic interest
of the trip, was gone. I was without courage and without energy, and nothing remained for me
but to leave Damascus.

Yet, fearful as my rash experiment proved to me, I did not regret having made it. It revealed
to me deeps of rapture and of suffering which my natural faculties never could have sounded.
It has taught me the majesty of human reason and of human will, even in the weakest, and the
awful peril of tampering with that which assails their integrity. I have here faithfully and
fully written out my experience, on account of the lesson which it may convey to others. If
I have unfortunately failed in my design, and have but awakened that restless curiosity which
I have endeavored to forestall, let me beg all who are thereby led to repeat the experiment
upon themselves, that they be content to take the portion of hasheesh which is considered sufficient
for one man, and not, like me, swallow enough for six.

Chapter XI.

A Dissertation on Bathing and Bodies.

  "No swan-soft woman, rubbed with lucid oils,
  The gift of an enamored god, more fair."

  Browning.

We shall not set out from Damascus--we shall not leave the Pearl of the Orient to glimmer through
the seas of foliage wherein it lies buried--without consecrating a day to the Bath, that material
agent of peace and good-will unto men. We have bathed in the Jordan, like Naaman, and been
made clean; let us now see whether Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, are better than the
waters of Israel.

The Bath is the "peculiar institution" of the East. Coffee has become colonized in France and
America; the Pipe is a cosmopolite, and his blue, joyous breath congeals under the Arctic Circle,
or melts languidly into the soft airs of the Polynesian Isles; but the Bath, that sensuous
elysium which cradled the dreams of Plato, and the visions of Zoroaster, and the solemn meditations
of Mahomet, is only to be found under an Oriental sky. The naked natives of the Torrid Zone
are amphibious; they do not bathe, they live in the water. The European and Anglo-American
wash themselves and think they have bathed; they shudder under cold showers and perform laborious
antics with coarse towels. As for the Hydropathist, the Genius of the Bath, whose dwelling
is in Damascus, would be convulsed with scornful laughter, could he behold that aqueous Diogenes
sitting in his tub, or stretched out in his wet wrappings, like a sodden mummy, in a catacomb
of blankets and feather beds. As the rose in the East has a rarer perfume than in other lands,
so does the Bath bestow a superior purification and impart a more profound enjoyment.

Listen not unto the lamentations of travellers, who complain of the heat, and the steam, and
the dislocations of their joints. They belong to the stiff-necked generation, who resist the
processes, whereunto the Oriental yields himself body and soul. He who is bathed in Damascus,
must be as clay in the hands of a potter. The Syrians marvel how the Franks can walk, so difficult
is it to bend their joints. Moreover, they know the difference between him who comes to the
Bath out of a mere idle curiosity, and him who has tasted its delight and holds it in due honor.
Only the latter is permitted to know all its mysteries. The former is carelessly hurried through
the ordinary forms of bathing, and, if any trace of the cockney remain in him, is quite as
likely to be disgusted as pleased. Again, there are many second and third-rate baths, whither
cheating dragomen conduct their victims, in consideration of a division of spoils with the
bath-keeper. Hence it is, that the Bath has received but partial justice at the hands of tourists
in the East. If any one doubts this, let him clothe himself with Oriental passiveness and resignation,
go to the Hamman el-Khyateën, at Damascus, or the Bath of Mahmoud Pasha, at Constantinople,
and demand that he be perfectly bathed.

Come with me, and I will show you the mysteries of the perfect bath. Here is the entrance,
a heavy Saracenic arch, opening upon the crowded bazaar. We descend a few steps to the marble
pavement of a lofty octagonal hall, lighted by a dome. There is a jet of sparkling water in
the centre, falling into a heavy stone basin. A platform about five feet in height runs around
the hall, and on this are ranged a number of narrow couches, with their heads to the wall,
like the pallets in a hospital ward. The platform is covered with straw matting, and from the
wooden gallery which rises above it are suspended towels, with blue and crimson borders. The
master of the bath receives us courteously, and conducts us to one of the vacant couches. We
kick off our red slippers below, and mount the steps to the platform. Yonder traveller, in
Frank dress, who has just entered, goes up with his boots on, and we know, from that fact,
what sort of a bath he will get.

As the work of disrobing proceeds, a dark-eyed boy appears with a napkin, which he holds before
us, ready to bind it about the waist, as soon as we regain our primitive form. Another attendant
throws a napkin over our shoulders and wraps a third around our head, turban-wise. He then
thrusts a pair of wooden clogs upon our feet, and, taking us by the arm, steadies our tottering
and clattering steps, as we pass through a low door and a warm ante-chamber into the first
hall of the bath. The light, falling dimly through a cluster of bull's-eyes in the domed ceiling,
shows, first, a silver thread of water, playing in a steamy atmosphere; next, some dark motionless
objects, stretched out on a low central platform of marble. The attendant spreads a linen sheet
in one of the vacant places, places a pillow at one end, takes off our clogs, deposits us gently
on our back, and leaves us. The pavement is warm beneath us, and the first breath we draw gives
us a sense of suffocation. But a bit of burning aloe-wood has just been carried through the
hall, and the steam is permeated with fragrance. The dark-eyed boy appears with a narghileh,
which he places beside us, offering the amber mouth-piece to our submissive lips. The smoke
we inhale has an odor of roses; and as the pipe bubbles with our breathing, we feel that the
dews of sweat gather heavily upon us. The attendant now reappears, kneels beside us, and gently
kneads us with dexterous hands. Although no anatomist, he knows every muscle and sinew whose
suppleness gives ease to the body, and so moulds and manipulates them that we lose the rigidity
of our mechanism, and become plastic in his hands. He turns us upon our face, repeats the same
process upon the back, and leaves us a little longer to lie there passively, glistening in
our own dew.

We are aroused from a reverie about nothing by a dark-brown shape, who replaces the clogs,
puts his arm around our waist and leads us into an inner hall, with a steaming tank in the
centre. Here he slips us off the brink, and we collapse over head and ears in the fiery fluid.
Once--twice--we dip into the delicious heat, and then are led into a marble alcove, and seated
flat upon the floor. The attendant stands behind us, and we now perceive that his hands are
encased in dark hair-gloves. He pounces upon an arm, which he rubs until, like a serpent, we
slough the worn-out skin, and resume our infantile smoothness and fairness. No man can be called
clean until he has bathed in the East. Let him walk directly from his accustomed bath and self-friction
with towels, to the Hammam el-Khyateën, and the attendant will exclaim, as he shakes out his
hair-gloves: "O Frank! it is a long time since you have bathed." The other arm follows, the
back, the breast, the legs, until the work is complete, and we know precisely how a horse feels
after he has been curried.

Now the attendant turns two cocks at the back of the alcove, and holding a basin alternately
under the cold and hot streams, floods us at first with a fiery dash, that sends a delicious
warm shiver through every nerve; then, with milder applications, lessening the temperature
of the water by semi-tones, until, from the highest key of heat which we can bear, we glide
rapturously down the gamut until we reach the lowest bass of coolness. The skin has by this
time attained an exquisite sensibility, and answers to these changes of temperature with thrills
of the purest physical pleasure. In fact, the whole frame seems purged of its earthy nature
and transformed into something of a finer and more delicate texture.

After a pause, the attendant makes his appearance with a large wooden bowl, a piece of soap,
and a bunch of palm-fibres. He squats down beside the bowl, and speedily creates a mass of
snowy lather, which grows up to a pyramid and topples over the edge. Seizing us by the crown-tuft
of hair upon our shaven head, he plants the foamy bunch of fibres full in our face. The world
vanishes; sight, hearing, smell, taste (unless we open our mouth), and breathing, are cut off;
we have become nebulous. Although our eyes are shut, we seem to see a blank whiteness; and,
feeling nothing but a soft fleeciness, we doubt whether we be not the Olympian cloud which
visited lo. But the cloud clears away before strangulation begins, and the velvety mass descends
upon the body. Twice we are thus "slushed" from head to foot, and made more slippery than the
anointed wrestlers of the Greek games. Then the basin comes again into play, and we glide once
more musically through the scale of temperature.

The brown sculptor has now nearly completed his task. The figure of clay which entered the
bath is transformed into polished marble. He turns the body from side to side, and lifts the
limbs to see whether the workmanship is adequate to his conception. His satisfied gaze proclaims
his success. A skilful bath-attendant has a certain aesthetic pleasure in his occupation. The
bodies he polishes become to some extent his own workmanship, and he feels responsible for
their symmetry or deformity. He experiences a degree of triumph in contemplating a beautiful
form, which has grown more airily light and beautiful under his hands. He is a great connoisseur
of bodies, and could pick you out the finest specimens with as ready an eye as an artist.

I envy those old Greek bathers, into whose hands were delivered Pericles, and Alcibiades, and
the perfect models of Phidias. They had daily before their eyes the highest types of Beauty
which the world has ever produced; for of all things that are beautiful, the human body is
the crown. Now, since the delusion of artists has been overthrown, and we know that Grecian
Art is but the simple reflex of Nature--that the old masterpieces of sculpture were no miraculous
embodiments of a beau ideal, but copies of living forms--we must admit that in no other age
of the world has the physical Man been so perfectly developed. The nearest approach I have
ever seen to the symmetry of ancient sculpture was among the Arab tribes of Ethiopia. Our Saxon
race can supply the athlete, but not the Apollo.

Oriental life is too full of repose, and the Ottoman race has become too degenerate through
indulgence, to exhibit many striking specimens of physical beauty. The face is generally fine,
but the body is apt to be lank, and with imperfect muscular development. The best forms I saw
in the baths were those of laborers, who, with a good deal of rugged strength, showed some
grace and harmony of proportion. It may be received as a general rule, that the physical development
of the European is superior to that of the Oriental, with the exception of the Circassians
and Georgians, whose beauty well entitles them to the distinction of giving their name to our race.

So far as female beauty is concerned, the Circassian women have no superiors. They have preserved
in their mountain home the purity of the Grecian models, and still display the perfect physical
loveliness, whose type has descended to us in the Venus de Medici. The Frank who is addicted
to wandering about the streets of Oriental cities can hardly fail to be favored with a sight
of the faces of these beauties. More than once it has happened to me, in meeting a veiled lady,
sailing along in her balloon-like feridjee, that she has allowed the veil to drop by a skilful
accident, as she passed, and has startled me with the vision of her beauty, recalling the line
of the Persian poet: "Astonishment! is this the dawn of the glorious sun, or is it the full
moon?" The Circassian face is a pure oval; the forehead is low and fair, "an excellent thing
in woman," and the skin of an ivory whiteness, except the faint pink of the cheeks and the
ripe, roseate stain of the lips. The hair is dark, glossy, and luxuriant, exquisitely outlined
on the temples; the eyebrows slightly arched, and drawn with a delicate pencil; while lashes
like "rays of darkness" shade the large, dark, humid orbs below them.

Once, by an unforeseen chance, I beheld the Circassian form, in its most perfect development.
I was on board an Austrian steamer in the harbor of Smyrna, when the harem of a Turkish pasha
came out in a boat to embark for Alexandria. The sea was rather rough, and nearly all the officers
of the steamer were ashore. There were six veiled and swaddled women, with a black eunuch as
guard, in the boat, which lay tossing for some time at the foot of the gangway ladder, before
the frightened passengers could summon courage to step out. At last the youngest of them--a
Circassian girl of not more than fifteen or sixteen years of age--ventured upon the ladder,
clasping the hand-rail with one hand, while with the other she held together the folds of her
cumbrous feridjee. I was standing in the gangway, watching her, when a slight lurch of the
steamer caused her to loose her hold of the garment, which, fastened at the neck, was blown
back from her shoulders, leaving her body screened but by a single robe of-light, gauzy silk.
Through this, the marble whiteness of her skin, the roundness, the glorious symmetry of her
form, flashed upon me, as a vision of Aphrodite, seen

  "Through leagues of shimmering water, like a star."

It was but a momentary glimpse; yet that moment convinced me that forms of Phidian perfection
are still nurtured in the vales of Caucasus.

The necessary disguise of dress hides from us much of the beauty and dignity of Humanity, I
have seen men who appeared heroic in the freedom of nakedness, shrink almost into absolute
vulgarity, when clothed. The soul not only sits at the windows of the eyes, and hangs upon
the gateway of the lips; she speaks as well in the intricate, yet harmonious lines of the body,
and the ever-varying play of the limbs. Look at the torso of Ilioneus, the son of Niobe, and
see what an agony of terror and supplication cries out from that headless and limbless trunk!
Decapitate Laocoön, and his knotted muscles will still express the same dreadful suffering
and resistance. None knew this better than the ancient sculptors; and hence it was that we
find many of their statues of distinguished men wholly or partly undraped. Such a view of Art
would be considered transcendental now-a-days, when our dress, our costumes, and our modes
of speech either ignore the existence of our bodies, or treat them with little of that reverence
which is their due.

But, while we have been thinking these thoughts, the attendant has been waiting to give us
a final plunge into the seething tank. Again we slide down to the eyes in the fluid heat, which
wraps us closely about until we tingle with exquisite hot shiverings. Now comes the graceful
boy, with clean, cool, lavendered napkins, which he folds around our waist and wraps softly
about the head. The pattens are put upon our feet, and the brown arm steadies us gently through
the sweating-room and ante-chamber into the outer hall, where we mount to our couch. We sink
gently upon the cool linen, and the boy covers us with a perfumed sheet. Then, kneeling beside
the couch, he presses the folds of the sheet around us, that it may absorb the lingering moisture
and the limpid perspiration shed by the departing heat. As fast as the linen becomes damp,
he replaces it with fresh, pressing the folds about us as tenderly as a mother arranges the
drapery of her sleeping babe; for we, though of the stature of a man, are now infantile in
our helpless happiness. Then he takes our passive hand and warms its palm by the soft friction
of his own; after which, moving to the end of the couch, he lifts our feet upon his lap, and
repeats the friction upon their soles, until the blood comes back to the surface of the body
with a misty glow, like that which steeps the clouds of a summer afternoon.

We have but one more process to undergo, and the attendant already stands at the head of our
couch. This is the course of passive gymnastics, which excites so much alarm and resistance
in the ignorant Franks. It is only resistance that is dangerous, completely neutralizing the
enjoyment of the process. Give yourself with a blind submission into the arms of the brown
Fate, and he will lead you to new chambers of delight. He lifts us to a sitting posture, places
himself behind us, and folds his arms around our body, alternately tightening and relaxing
his clasp, as if to test the elasticity of the ribs. Then seizing one arm, he draws it across
the opposite shoulder, until the joint cracks like a percussion-cap. The shoulder-blades, the
elbows, the wrists, and the finger-joints are all made to fire off their muffled volleys; and
then, placing one knee between our shoulders, and clasping both hands upon our forehead, he
draws our head back until we feel a great snap of the vertebral column. Now he descends to
the hip-joints, knees, ankles, and feet, forcing each and all to discharge a salvo de joie.
The slight languor left from the bath is gone, and an airy, delicate exhilaration, befitting
the winged Mercury, takes its place.

The boy, kneeling, presents us with finjan of foamy coffee, followed by a glass of sherbet
cooled with the snows of Lebanon. He presently returns with a narghileh, which we smoke by
the effortless inhalation of the lungs. Thus we lie in perfect repose, soothed by the fragrant
weed, and idly watching the silent Orientals, who are undressing for the bath or reposing like
ourselves. Through the arched entrance, we see a picture of the bazaars: a shadowy painting
of merchants seated amid their silks and spices, dotted here and there with golden drops and
splashes of sunshine, which have trickled through the roof. The scene paints itself upon our
eyes, yet wakes no slightest stir of thought. The brain is a becalmed sea, without a ripple
on its shores. Mind and body are drowned in delicious rest; and we no longer remember what
we are. We only know that there is an Existence somewhere in the air, and that wherever it
is, and whatever it may be, it is happy.

More and more dim grows the picture. The colors fade and blend into each other, and finally
merge into a bed of rosy clouds, flooded with the radiance of some unseen sun. Gentlier than
"tired eyelids upon tired eyes," sleep lies upon our senses: a half-conscious sleep, wherein
we know that we behold light and inhale fragrance. As gently, the clouds dissipate into air,
and we are born again into the world. The Bath is at an end. We arise and put on our garments,
and walk forth into the sunny streets of Damascus. But as we go homewards, we involuntarily
look down to see whether we are really treading upon the earth, wondering, perhaps, that we
should be content to do so, when it would be so easy to soar above the house-tops.

  "Peor and Baälim
  Forsake their temples dim."

  Milton.

  "The cedars wave on Lebanon,
  But Judah's statelier maids are gone."

  Byron.

Beyrout, Thursday, May 27, 1852.

After a stay of eight days in Damascus, we called our men, Dervish and Mustapha, again into
requisition, loaded our enthusiastic mules, and mounted our despairing horses. There were two
other parties on the way to Baalbec--an English gentleman and lady, and a solitary Englishman,
so that our united forces made an imposing caravan. There is always a custom-house examination,
not on entering, but on issuing from an Oriental city, but travellers can avoid it by procuring
the company of a Consular Janissary as far as the gate. Mr. Wood, the British Consul, lent
us one of his officers for the occasion, whom we found waiting, outside of the wall, to receive
his private fee for the service. We mounted the long, barren hill west of the plain, and at
the summit, near the tomb of a Moslem shekh, turned to take a last long look at the bowery
plain, and the minarets of the city, glittering through the blue morning vapor.

A few paces further on the rocky road, a different scene presented itself to us. There lay,
to the westward, a long stretch of naked yellow mountains, basking in the hot glare of the
sun, and through the centre, deep down in the heart of the arid landscape, a winding line of
living green showed the course of the Barrada. We followed the river, until the path reached
an impassable gorge, which occasioned a detour of two or three hours. We then descended to
the bed of the dell, where the vegetation, owing to the radiated heat from the mountains and
the fertilizing stimulus of the water below, was even richer than on the plain of Damascus.
The trees were plethoric with an overplus of life. The boughs of the mulberries were weighed
down with the burden of the leaves; pomegranates were in a violent eruption of blossoms; and
the foliage of the fig and poplar was of so deep a hue that it shone black in the sun.

Passing through a gateway of rock, so narrow that we were often obliged to ride in the bed
of the stream, we reached a little meadow, beyond which was a small hamlet, almost hidden in
the leaves. Here the mountains again approached each other, and from the side of that on the
right hand, the main body of the Barrada, or Pharpar, gushed forth in one full stream. The
fountain is nearly double the volume of that of the Jordan at Banias, and much more beautiful.
The foundations of an ancient building, probably a temple, overhang it, and tall poplars and
sycamores cover it with impenetrable shade. From the low aperture, where it bursts into the
light, its waters, white with foam, bound away flashing in the chance rays of sunshine, until
they are lost to sight in the dense, dark foliage. We sat an hour on the ruined walls, listening
to the roar and rush of the flood, and enjoying the shade of the walnuts and sycamores. Soon
after leaving, our path crossed a small stream, which comes down to the Barrada from the upper
valleys of the Anti-Lebanon, and entered a wild pass, faced with cliffs of perpendicular rock.
An old bridge, of one arch, spanned the chasm, out of which we climbed to a tract of high meadow
land. In the pass there were some fragments of ancient columns, traces of an aqueduct, and
inscriptions on the rocks, among which Mr. H. found the name of Antoninus. The place is not
mentioned in any book of travel I have seen, as it is not on the usual road from Damascus to
Baalbec.

As we were emerging from the pass, we saw a company of twelve armed men seated in the grass,
near the roadside. They were wild-looking characters, and eyed us somewhat sharply as we passed.
We greeted them with the usual "salaam aleikoom!" which they did not return. The same evening,
as we encamped at the village of Zebdeni, about three hours further up the valley, we were
startled by a great noise and outcry, with the firing of pistols. It happened, as we learned
on inquiring the cause of all this confusion, that the men we saw in the pass were rebel Druses,
who were then lying in wait for the Shekh of Zebdeni, whom, with his son, they had taken captive
soon after we passed. The news had by some means been conveyed to the village, and a company
of about two hundred persons was then marching out to the rescue. The noise they made was probably
to give the Druses intimation of their coming, and thus avoid a fight. I do not believe that
any of the mountaineers of Lebanon would willingly take part against the Druses, who, in fact,
are not fighting so much against the institution of the conscription law, as its abuse. The
law ordains that the conscript shall serve for five years; but since its establishment, as
I have been informed, there has not been a single instance of discharge. It amounts, therefore,
to lifelong servitude, and there is little wonder that these independent sons of the mountains,
as well as the tribes inhabiting the Syrian Desert, should rebel rather than submit.

The next day, we crossed a pass in the Anti-Lebanon beyond Zebdeni, descended a beautiful valley
on the western side, under a ridge which was still dotted with patches of snow, and after travelling
for some hours over a wide, barren height, the last of the range, saw below us the plain of
Baalbec. The grand ridge of Lebanon opposite, crowned with glittering fields of snow, shone
out clearly through the pure air, and the hoary head of Hermon, far in the south, lost something
of its grandeur by the comparison. Though there is a "divide," or watershed, between Husbeiya,
at the foot of Mount Hermon, and Baalbec, whose springs join the Orontes, which flows northward
to Antioch, the great natural separation of the two chains continues unbroken to the Gulf of
Akaba, in the Red Sea. A little beyond Baalbec, the Anti-Lebanon terminates, sinking into the
Syrian plain, while the Lebanon, though its name and general features are lost, about twenty
miles further to the north is succeeded by other ranges, which, though broken at intervals,
form a regular series, connecting with the Taurus, in Asia Minor.

On leaving Damascus, the Demon of Hasheesh still maintained a partial control over me. I was
weak in body and at times confused in my perceptions, wandering away from the scenes about
me to some unknown sphere beyond the moon. But the healing balm of my sleep at Zebdeni, and
the purity of the morning air among the mountains, completed my cure. As I rode along the valley,
with the towering, snow-sprinkled ridge of the Anti-Lebanon on my right, a cloudless heaven
above my head, and meads enamelled with the asphodel and scarlet anemone stretching before
me, I felt that the last shadow had rolled away from my brain. My mind was now as clear as
that sky--my heart as free and joyful as the elastic morning air. The sun never shone so brightly
to my eyes; the fair forms of Nature were never penetrated with so perfect a spirit of beauty.
I was again master of myself, and the world glowed as if new-created in the light of my joy
and gratitude. I thanked God, who had led me out of a darkness more terrible than that of the
Valley of the Shadow of Death, and while my feet strayed among the flowery meadows of Lebanon,
my heart walked on the Delectable Hills of His Mercy.

By the middle of the afternoon, we reached Baalbec. The distant view of the temple, on descending
the last slope of the Anti-Lebanon, is not calculated to raise one's expectations. On the green
plain at the foot of the mountain, you see a large square platform of masonry, upon which stand
six columns, the body of the temple, and a quantity of ruined walls. As a feature in the landscape,
it has a fine effect, but you find yourself pronouncing the speedy judgment, that "Baalbec,
without Lebanon, would be rather a poor show." Having come to this conclusion, you ride down
the hill with comfortable feelings of indifference. There are a number of quarries on the left
hand; you glance at them with an expression which merely says: "Ah! I suppose they got the
stones here," and so you saunter on, cross a little stream that flows down from the modern
village, pass a mill, return the stare of the quaint Arab miller who comes to the door to see
you, and your horse is climbing a difficult path among the broken columns and friezes, before
you think it worth while to lift your eyes to the pile above you. Now re-assert your judgment,
if you dare! This is Baalbec: what have you to say? Nothing; but you amazedly measure the torsos
of great columns which lie piled across one another in magnificent wreck; vast pieces which
have dropped from the entablature, beautiful Corinthian capitals, bereft of the last graceful
curves of their acanthus leaves, and blocks whose edges are so worn away that they resemble
enormous natural boulders left by the Deluge, till at last you look up to the six glorious
pillars, towering nigh a hundred feet above your head, and there is a sensation in your brain
which would be a shout, if you could give it utterance, of faultless symmetry and majesty,
such as no conception of yours and no other creation of art, can surpass.

I know of nothing so beautiful in all remains of ancient Art as these six columns, except the
colonnade of the Memnonium, at Thebes, which is of much smaller proportions. From every position,
and with all lights of the day or night, they are equally perfect, and carry your eyes continually
away from the peristyle of the smaller temple, which is better preserved, and from the exquisite
architecture of the outer courts and pavilions. The two temples of Baalbec stand on an artificial
platform of masonry, a thousand feet in length, and from fifteen to thirty feet (according
to the depression of the soil) in height, The larger one, which is supposed to have been a
Pantheon, occupies the whole length of this platform. The entrance was at the north, by a grand
flight of steps, now broken away, between two lofty and elegant pavilions which are still nearly
entire. Then followed a spacious hexagonal court, and three grand halls, parts of which, with
niches for statues, adorned with cornices and pediments of elaborate design, still remain entire
to the roof. This magnificent series of chambers was terminated at the southern extremity of
the platform by the main temple, which had originally twenty columns on a side, similar to
the six now standing.

The Temple of the Sun stands on a smaller and lower platform, which appears to have been subsequently
added to the greater one. The cella, or body of the temple, is complete except the roof, and
of the colonnade surrounding it, nearly one-half of its pillars are still standing, upholding
the frieze, entablature, and cornice, which altogether form probably the most ornate specimen
of the Corinthian order of architecture now extant. Only four pillars of the superb portico
remain, and the Saracens have nearly ruined these by building a sort of watch-tower upon the
architrave. The same unscrupulous race completely shut up the portal of the temple with a blank
wall, formed of the fragments they had hurled down, and one is obliged to creep through a narrow
hole in order to reach the interior. Here the original doorway faces you--and I know not how
to describe the wonderful design of its elaborate sculptured mouldings and cornices. The genius
of Greek art seems to have exhausted itself in inventing ornaments, which, while they should
heighten the gorgeous effect of the work, must yet harmonize with the grand design of the temple.
The enormous keystone over the entrance has slipped down, no doubt from the shock of an earthquake,
and hangs within six inches of the bottom of the two blocks which uphold it on either side.
When it falls, the whole entablature of the portal will be destroyed. On its lower side is
an eagle with outspread wings, and on the side-stones a genius with garlands of flowers, exquisitely
sculptured in bas relief. Hidden among the wreaths of vines which adorn the jambs are the laughing
heads of fauns. This portal was a continual study to me, every visit revealing new refinements
of ornament, which I had not before observed. The interior of the temple, with its rich Corinthian
pilasters, its niches for statues, surmounted by pediments of elegant design, and its elaborate
cornice, needs little aid of the imagination to restore it to its original perfection. Like
that of Dendera, in Egypt, the Temple of the Sun leaves upon the mind an impression of completeness
which makes you forget far grander remains.

But the most wonderful thing at Baalbec is the foundation platform upon which the temples stand.
Even the colossal fabrics of Ancient Egypt dwindle before this superhuman masonry. The platform
itself, 1,000 feet long, and averaging twenty feet in height, suggests a vast mass of stones,
but when you come to examine the single blocks of which it is composed, you are crushed with
their incredible bulk. On the western side is a row of eleven foundation stones, each of which
is thirty-two feet in length, twelve in height, and ten in thickness, forming a wall three
hundred and fifty-two feet long! But while you are walking on, thinking of the art which cut
and raised these enormous blocks, you turn the southern corner and come upon three stones,
the united length of which is one hundred and eighty-seven feet--two of them being sixty-two
and the other sixty-three feet in length! There they are, cut with faultless exactness, and
so smoothly joined to each other, that you cannot force a cambric needle into the crevice.
There is one joint so perfect that it can only be discerned by the minutest search; it is not
even so perceptible as the junction of two pieces of paper which have been pasted together.
In the quarry, there still lies a finished block, ready for transportation, which is sixty-seven
feet in length. The weight of one of these masses has been reckoned at near 9,000 tons, yet
they do not form the base of the foundation, but are raised upon other courses, fifteen feet
from the ground. It is considered by some antiquarians that they are of a date greatly anterior
to that of the temples, and were intended as the basement of a different edifice.

In the village of Baalbec there is a small circular Corinthian temple of very elegant design.
It is not more than thirty feet in diameter, and may have been intended as a tomb. A spacious
mosque, now roofless and deserted, was constructed almost entirely out of the remains of the
temples. Adjoining the court-yard and fountain are five rows of ancient pillars, forty (the
sacred number) in all, supporting light Saracenic arches. Some of them are marble, with Corinthian
capitals, and eighteen are single shafts of red Egyptian granite. Beside the fountain lies
a small broken pillar of porphyry, of a dark violet hue, and of so fine a grain that the stone
has the soft rich lustre of velvet. This fragment is the only thing I would carry away if I
had the power.

After a day's sojourn, we left Baalbec at noon, and took the road for the Cedars, which lie
on the other side of Lebanon, in the direction of Tripoli. Our English fellow-travellers chose
the direct road to Beyrout. We crossed the plain in three hours; to the village of Dayr el-Ahmar,
and then commenced ascending the lowest slopes of the great range, whose topmost ridge, a dazzling
parapet of snow, rose high above us. For several hours, our path led up and down stony ridges,
covered with thickets of oak and holly, and with wild cherry, pear, and olive-trees. Just as
the sun threw the shadows of the highest Lebanon over us, we came upon a narrow, rocky glen
at his very base. Streams that still kept the color and the coolness of the snow-fields from
which they oozed, foamed over the stones into the chasm at the bottom. The glen descended into
a mountain basin, in which lay the lake of Yemouni, cold and green under the evening shadows.
But just opposite us, on a little shelf of soil, there was a rude mill, and a group of superb
walnut-trees, overhanging the brink of the largest torrent. We had sent our baggage before
us, and the men, with an eye to the picturesque which I should not have suspected in Arabs,
had pitched our tents under those trees, where the stream poured its snow-cold beakers beside
us, and the tent-door looked down on the plain of Baalbec and across to the Anti-Lebanon. The
miller and two or three peasants, who were living in this lonely spot, were Christians.

The next morning we commenced ascending the Lebanon. We had slept just below the snow-line,
for the long hollows with which the ridge is cloven were filled up to within a short distance
of the glen, out of which we came. The path was very steep, continually ascending, now around
the barren shoulder of the mountain, now up some ravine, where the holly and olive still flourished,
and the wild rhubarb-plant spread its large, succulent leaves over the soil. We had taken a
guide, the day before, at the village of Dayr el-Ahmar, but as the way was plain before us,
and he demanded an exorbitant sum, we dismissed him, We had not climbed far, however, before
he returned, professing to be content with whatever we might give him, and took us into another
road, the first, he said, being impracticable. Up and up we toiled, and the long hollows of
snow lay below us, and the wind came cold from the topmost peaks, which began to show near
at hand. But now the road, as we had surmised, turned towards that we had first taken, and
on reaching the next height we saw the latter at a short distance from us. It was not only
a better, but a shorter road, the rascal of a guide having led us out of it in order to give
the greater effect to his services. In order to return to it, as was necessary, there were
several dangerous snow-fields to be passed. The angle of their descent was so great that a
single false step would have hurled our animals, baggage and all, many hundred feet below.
The snow was melting, and the crust frozen over the streams below was so thin in places that
the animals broke through and sank to their bellies.

It were needless to state the number and character of the anathemas bestowed upon the guide.
The impassive Dervish raved; Mustapha stormed; François broke out in a frightful eruption of
Greek and Turkish oaths, and the two travellers, though not (as I hope and believe) profanely
inclined, could not avoid using a few terse Saxon expressions. When the general indignation
had found vent, the men went to work, and by taking each animal separately, succeeded, at imminent
hazard, in getting them all over the snow. We then dismissed the guide, who, far from being
abashed by the discovery of his trickery, had the impudence to follow us for some time, claiming
his pay. A few more steep pulls, over deep beds of snow and patches of barren stone, and at
length the summit ridge--a sharp, white wall, shining against the intense black-blue of the
zenith--stood before us. We climbed a toilsome zig-zag through the snow, hurried over the stones
cumbering the top, and all at once the mountains fell away, ridge below ridge, gashed with
tremendous chasms, whose bottoms were lost in blue vapor, till the last heights, crowned with
white Maronite convents, hung above the sea, whose misty round bounded the vision. I have seen
many grander mountain views, but few so sublimely rugged and broken in their features. The
sides of the ridges dropped off in all directions into sheer precipices, and the few villages
we could see were built like eagles' nests on the brinks. In a little hollow at our feet was
the sacred Forest of Cedars, appearing like a patch of stunted junipers. It is the highest
speck of vegetation on Lebanon, and in winter cannot be visited, on account of the snow. The
summit on which we stood was about nine thousand feet above the sea, but there were peaks on
each side at least a thousand feet higher.

We descended by a very steep path, over occasional beds of snow, and reached the Cedars in
an hour and a half. Not until we were within a hundred yards of the trees, and below their
level, was I at all impressed with their size and venerable aspect. But, once entered into
the heart of the little wood, walking over its miniature hills and valleys, and breathing the
pure, balsamic exhalations of the trees, all the disappointment rising to my mind was charmed
away in an instant There are about three hundred trees, in all, many of which are of the last
century's growth, but at least fifty of them would be considered grand in any forest. The patriarchs
are five in number, and are undoubtedly as old as the Christian Era, if not the Age of Solomon.
The cypresses in the Garden of Montezuma, at Chapultepec, are even older and grander trees,
but they are as entire and shapely as ever, whereas these are gnarled and twisted into wonderful
forms by the storms of twenty centuries, and shivered in some places by lightning. The hoary
father of them all, nine feet in diameter, stands in the centre of the grove, on a little knoll,
and spreads his ponderous arms, each a tree in itself, over the heads of the many generations
that have grown up below, as if giving his last benediction before decay. He is scarred less
with storm and lightning, than with the knives of travellers, and the marble crags of Lebanon
do not more firmly retain their inscriptions than his stony trunk. Dates of the last century
are abundant, and I recollect a tablet inscribed: "Souard, 1670," around which the newer wood
has grown to the height of three or four inches. The seclusion of the grove, shut in by peaks
of barren snow, is complete. Only the voice of the nightingale, singing here by daylight in
the solemn shadows, breaks the silence. The Maronite monk, who has charge of a little stone
chapel standing in the midst, moves about like a shade, and, not before you are ready to leave,
brings his book for you to register your name therein, I was surprised to find how few of the
crowd that annually overrun Syria reach the Cedars, which, after Baalbec, are the finest remains
of antiquity in the whole country.

After a stay of three hours, we rode on to Eden, whither our men had already gone with the
baggage. Our road led along the brink of a tremendous gorge, a thousand feet deep, the bottom
of which was only accessible here and there by hazardous foot-paths. On either side, a long
shelf of cultivated land sloped down to the top, and the mountain streams, after watering a
multitude of orchards and grain-fields, tumbled over the cliffs in long, sparkling cascades,
to join the roaring flood below. This is the Christian region of Lebanon, inhabited almost
wholly by Maronites, who still retain a portion of their former independence, and are the most
thrifty, industrious, honest, and happy people in Syria. Their villages are not concrete masses
of picturesque filth, as are those of the Moslems, but are loosely scattered among orchards
of mulberry, poplar, and vine, washed by fresh rills, and have an air of comparative neatness
and comfort. Each has its two or three chapels, with their little belfries, which toll the
hours of prayer. Sad and poetic as is the call from the minaret, it never touched me as when
I heard the sweet tongues of those Christian bells, chiming vespers far and near on the sides
of Lebanon.

Eden merits its name. It is a mountain paradise, inhabited by people so kind and simple-hearted,
that assuredly no vengeful angel will ever drive them out with his flaming sword. It hangs
above the gorge, which is here nearly two thousand feet deep, and overlooks a grand wilderness
of mountain-piles, crowded on and over each other, from the sea that gleams below, to the topmost
heights that keep off the morning sun. The houses are all built of hewn stone, and grouped
in clusters under the shade of large walnut-trees. In walking among them, we received kind
greetings everywhere, and every one who was seated rose and remained standing as we passed.
The women are beautiful, with sprightly, intelligent faces, quite different from the stupid
Mahometan females.

The children were charming creatures, and some of the girls of ten or twelve years were lovely
as angels. They came timidly to our tent (which the men had pitched as before, under two superb
trees, beside a fountain), and offered us roses and branches of fragrant white jasmine. They
expected some return, of course, but did not ask it, and the delicate grace with which the
offering was made was beyond all pay. It was Sunday, and the men and boys, having nothing better
to do, all came to see and talk with us. I shall not soon forget the circle of gay and laughing
villagers, in which we sat that evening, while the dark purple shadows gradually filled up
the gorges, and broad golden lights poured over the shoulders of the hills. The men had much
sport in inducing the smaller boys to come up and salute us. There was one whom they called
"the Consul," who eluded them for some time, but was finally caught and placed in the ring
before us. "Peace be with you, O Consul," I said, making him a profound inclination, "may your
days be propitious! may your shadow be increased!" but I then saw, from the vacant expression
on the boy's face, that he was one of those harmless, witless creatures, whom yet one cannot
quite call idiots. "He is an unfortunate; he knows nothing; he has no protector but God," said
the men, crossing themselves devoutly. The boy took off his cap, crept up and kissed my hand,
as I gave him some money, which he no sooner grasped, than he sprang up like a startled gazelle,
and was out of sight in an instant.

In descending from Eden to the sea-coast, we were obliged to cross the great gorge of which
I spoke. Further down, its sides are less steep, and clothed even to the very bottom with magnificent
orchards of mulberry, fig, olive, orange, and pomegranate trees. We were three hours in reaching
the opposite side, although the breadth across the top is not more than a mile. The path was
exceedingly perilous; we walked down, leading our horses, and once were obliged to unload our
mules to get them past a tree, which would have forced them off the brink of a chasm several
hundred feet deep. The view from the bottom was wonderful. We were shut in by steeps of foliage
and blossoms from two to three thousand feet high, broken by crags of white marble, and towering
almost precipitously to the very clouds. I doubt if Melville saw anything grander in the tropical
gorges of Typee. After reaching the other side, we had still a journey of eight hours to the
sea, through a wild and broken, yet highly cultivated country.

Beyrout was now thirteen hours distant, but by making a forced march we reached it in a day,
travelling along the shore, past the towns of Jebeil, the ancient Byblus, and Joonieh. The
hills about Jebeil produce the celebrated tobacco known in Egypt as the Jebelee, or "mountain"
tobacco, which is even superior to the Latakiyeh.

Near Beyrout, the mulberry and olive are in the ascendant. The latter tree bears the finest
fruit in all the Levant, and might drive all other oils out of the market, if any one had enterprise
enough to erect proper manufactories. Instead of this the oil of the country is badly prepared,
rancid from the skins in which it is kept, and the wealthy natives import from France and Italy
in preference to using it. In the bottoms near the sea, I saw several fields of the taro-plant,
the cultivation of which I had supposed was exclusively confined to the Islands of the Pacific.
There would be no end to the wealth of Syria were the country in proper hands.

Chapter XIII.

Pipes and Coffee.

  --"the kind nymph to Bacchus born
  By Morpheus' daughter, she that seems
  Gifted upon her natal morn
  By him with fire, by her with dreams--
  Nicotia, dearer to the Muse
  Than all the grape's bewildering juice." Lowell.

In painting the picture of an Oriental, the pipe and the coffee-cup are indispensable accessories.
There is scarce a Turk, or Arab, or Persian--unless he be a Dervish of peculiar sanctity--but
breathes his daily incense to the milder Bacchus of the moderns. The custom has become so thoroughly
naturalized in the East, that we are apt to forget its comparatively recent introduction, and
to wonder that no mention is made of the pipe in the Arabian Nights. The practice of smoking
harmonizes so thoroughly with the character of Oriental life, that it is difficult for us to
imagine a time when it never existed. It has become a part of that supreme patience, that wonderful
repose, which forms so strong a contrast to the over-active life of the New World--the enjoyment
of which no one can taste, to whom the pipe is not familiar. Howl, ye Reformers! but I solemnly
declare unto you, that he who travels through the East without smoking, does not know the East.

It is strange that our Continent, where the meaning of Rest is unknown, should have given to
the world this great agent of Rest. There is nothing more remarkable in history than the colonization
of Tobacco over the whole Earth. Not three centuries have elapsed since knightly Raleigh puffed
its fumes into the astonished eyes of Spenser and Shakspeare; and now, find me any corner of
the world, from Nova Zembla to the Mountains of the Moon, where the use of the plant is unknown!
Tarshish (if India was Tarshish) is less distinguished by its "apes, ivory, and peacocks,"
than by its hookahs; the valleys of Luzon, beyond Ternate and Tidore, send us more cheroots
than spices; the Gardens of Shiraz produce more velvety toombek than roses, and the only fountains
which bubble in Samarcand are those of the narghilehs: Lebanon is no longer "excellent with
the Cedars," as in the days of Solomon, but most excellent with its fields of Jebelee and Latakiyeh.
On the unvisited plains of Central Africa, the table-lands of Tartary, and in the valleys of
Japan, the wonderful plant has found a home. The naked negro, "panting at the Line," inhales
it under the palms, and the Lapp and Samoyed on the shores of the Frozen Sea.

It is idle for those who object to the use of Tobacco to attribute these phenomena wholly to
a perverted taste. The fact that the custom was at once adopted by all the races of men, whatever
their geographical position and degree of civilization, proves that there must be a reason
for it in the physical constitution of man. Its effect, when habitually used, is slightly narcotic
and sedative, not stimulating--or if so, at times, it stimulates only the imagination and the
social faculties. It lulls to sleep the combative and destructive propensities, and hence--so
far as a material agent may operate--it exercises a humanizing and refining influence. A profound
student of Man, whose name is well known to the world, once informed me that he saw in the
eagerness with which savage tribes adopt the use of Tobacco, a spontaneous movement of Nature
towards Civilization.

I will not pursue these speculations further, for the narghileh (bubbling softly at my elbow,
as I write) is the promoter of repose and the begetter of agreeable reverie. As I inhale its
cool, fragrant breath, and partly yield myself to the sensation of healthy rest which wraps
my limbs as with a velvet mantle, I marvel how the poets and artists and scholars of olden
times nursed those dreams which the world calls indolence, but which are the seeds that germinate
into great achievements. How did Plato philosophize without the pipe? How did gray Homer, sitting
on the temple-steps in the Grecian twilights, drive from his heart the bitterness of beggary
and blindness? How did Phidias charm the Cerberus of his animal nature to sleep, while his
soul entered the Elysian Fields and beheld the forms of heroes? For, in the higher world of
Art, Body and Soul are sworn enemies, and the pipe holds an opiate more potent than all the
drowsy syrups of the East, to drug the former into submission. Milton knew this, as he smoked
his evening pipe at Chalfont, wandering, the while, among the palms of Paradise.

But it is also our loss, that Tobacco was unknown to the Greeks. They would else have given
us, in verse and in marble, another divinity in their glorious Pantheon--a god less drowsy
than Morpheus and Somnus, less riotous than Bacchus, less radiant than Apollo, but with something
of the spirit of each: a figure, beautiful with youth, every muscle in perfect repose, and
the vague expression of dreams in his half-closed eyes. His temple would have been built in
a grove of Southern pines, on the borders of a land-locked gulf, sheltered from the surges
that buffet without, where service would have been rendered him in the late hours of the afternoon,
or in the evening twilight. From his oracular tripod words of wisdom would have been spoken,
and the fanes of Delphi and Dodona would have been deserted for his.

Oh, non-smoking friends, who read these lines with pain and incredulity--and you, ladies, who
turn pale at the thought of a pipe--let me tell you that you are familiar only with the vulgar
form of tobacco, and have never passed between the wind and its gentility. The word conveys
no idea to you but that of "long nines," and pig-tail, and cavendish. Forget these for a moment,
and look upon this dark-brown cake of dried leaves and blossoms, which exhales an odor of pressed
flowers. These are the tender tops of the Jebelee, plucked as the buds begin to expand, and
carefully dried in the shade. In order to be used, it is moistened with rose-scented water,
and cut to the necessary degree of fineness. The test of true Jebelee is, that it burns with
a slow, hidden fire, like tinder, and causes no irritation to the eye when held under it. The
smoke, drawn through a long cherry-stick pipe and amber mouth-piece, is pure, cool, and sweet,
with an aromatic flavor, which is very pleasant in the mouth. It excites no salivation, and
leaves behind it no unpleasant, stale odor.

The narghileh (still bubbling beside me) is an institution known only in the East. It requires
a peculiar kind of tobacco, which grows to perfection in the southern provinces of Persia.
The smoke, after passing through water (rose-flavored, if you choose), is inhaled through a
long, flexible tube directly into the lungs. It occasions not the slightest irritation or oppression,
but in a few minutes produces a delicious sense of rest, which is felt even in the finger-ends.
The pure physical sensation of rest is one of strength also, and of perfect contentment. Many
an impatient thought, many an angry word, have I avoided by a resort to the pipe. Among our
aborigines the pipe was the emblem of Peace, and I strongly recommend the Peace Society to
print their tracts upon papers of smoking tobacco (Turkish, if possible), and distribute pipes
with them.

I know of nothing more refreshing, after the fatigue of a long day's journey, than a well-prepared
narghileh. That slight feverish and excitable feeling which is the result of fatigue yields
at once to its potency. The blood loses its heat and the pulse its rapidity; the muscles relax,
the nerves are soothed into quiet, and the frame passes into a condition similar to sleep,
except that the mind is awake and active. By the time one has finished his pipe, he is refreshed
for the remainder of the day, and his nightly sleep is sound and healthy. Such are some of
the physical effects of the pipe, in Eastern lands. Morally and psychologically, it works still
greater transformations; but to describe them now, with the mouth-piece at my lips, would require
an active self-consciousness which the habit does not allow.

A servant enters with a steamy cup of coffee, seated in a silver zerf, or cup-holder. His thumb
and fore-finger are clasped firmly upon the bottom of the zerf, which I inclose near the top
with my own thumb and finger, so that the transfer is accomplished without his hand having
touched mine.

After draining the thick brown liquid, which must be done with due deliberation and a pause
of satisfaction between each sip, I return the zerf, holding it in the middle, while the attendant
places a palm of each hand upon the top and bottom and carries it off without contact. The
beverage is made of the berries of Mocha, slightly roasted, pulverized in a mortar, and heated
to a foam, without the addition of cream or sugar. Sometimes, however, it is flavored with
the extract of roses or violets. When skilfully made, each cup is prepared separately, and
the quantity of water and coffee carefully measured.

Coffee is a true child of the East, and its original home was among the hills of Yemen, the
Arabia Felix of the ancients. Fortunately for Mussulmen, its use was unknown in the days of
Mahomet, or it would probably have fallen under the same prohibition as wine. The word Kahweh
(whence café) is an old Arabic term for wine. The discovery of the properties of coffee is
attributed to a dervish, who, for some misdemeanor, was carried into the mountains of Yemen
by his brethren and there left to perish by starvation. In order to appease the pangs of hunger
he gathered the ripe berries from the wild coffee-trees, roasted and ate them. The nourishment
they contained, with water from the springs, sustained his life, and after two or three months
he returned in good condition to his brethren, who considered his preservation as a miracle,
and ever afterwards looked upon him as a pattern of holiness. He taught the use of the miraculous
fruit, and the demand for it soon became so great as to render the cultivation of the tree
necessary. It was a long time, however, before coffee was introduced into Europe. As late as
the beginning of the seventeenth century, Sandys, the quaint old traveller, describes the appearance
and taste of the beverage, which he calls "Coffa," and sagely asks: "Why not that black broth
which the Lacedemonians used?"

On account of the excellence of the material, and the skilful manner of its preparation, the
Coffee of the East is the finest in the world. I have found it so grateful and refreshing a
drink, that I can readily pardon the pleasant exaggeration of the Arabic poet, Abd-el Kader
Anazari Djezeri Hanbali, the son of Mahomet, who thus celebrates its virtues. After such an
exalted eulogy, my own praises would sound dull and tame; and I therefore resume my pipe, commending
Abd-el Kader to the reader.

"O Coffee! thou dispellest the cares of the great; thou bringest back those who wander from
the paths of knowledge. Coffee is the beverage of the people of God, and the cordial of his
servants who thirst for wisdom. When coffee is infused into the bowl, it exhales the odor of
musk, and is of the color of ink. The truth is not known except to the wise, who drink it from
the foaming coffee-cup. God has deprived fools of coffee, who, with invincible obstinacy, condemn
it as injurious.

"Coffee is our gold; and in the place of its libations we are in the enjoyment of the best
and noblest society. Coffee is even as innocent a drink as the purest milk, from which it is
distinguished only by its color. Tarry with thy coffee in the place of its preparation, and
the good God will hover over thee and participate in his feast. There the graces of the saloon,
the luxury of life, the society of friends, all furnish a picture of the abode of happiness.

"Every care vanishes when the cup-bearer presents the delicious chalice. It will circulate
fleetly through thy veins, and will not rankle there: if thou doubtest this, contemplate the
youth and beauty of those who drink it. Grief cannot exist where it grows; sorrow humbles itself
in obedience before its powers.

"Coffee is the drink of God's people; in it is health. Let this be the answer to those who
doubt its qualities. In it we will drown our adversities, and in its fire consume our sorrows.
Whoever has once seen the blissful chalice, will scorn the wine-cup. Glorious drink! thy color
is the seal of purity, and reason proclaims it genuine. Drink with confidence, and regard not
the prattle of fools, who condemn without foundation."

  Shelley.

Aleppo, Friday, June 4, 1852.

A Traveller in the East, who has not unbounded time and an extensive fortune at his disposal,
is never certain where and how far he shall go, until his journey is finished. With but a limited
portion of both these necessaries, I have so far carried out my original plan with scarcely
a variation; but at present I am obliged to make a material change of route. My farthest East
is here at Aleppo. At Damascus, I was told by everybody that it was too late in the season
to visit either Baghdad or Mosul, and that, on account of the terrible summer heats and the
fevers which prevail along the Tigris, it would be imprudent to undertake it. Notwithstanding
this, I should probably have gone (being now so thoroughly acclimated that I have nothing to
fear from the heat), had I not met with a friend of Col. Rawlinson, the companion of Layard,
and the sharer in his discoveries at Nineveh. This gentleman, who met Col. R. not long since
in Constantinople, on his way to Baghdad (where he resides as British Consul), informed me
that since the departure of Mr. Layard from Mosul, the most interesting excavations have been
filled up, in order to preserve the sculptures. Unless one was able to make a new exhumation,
he would be by no means repaid for so long and arduous a journey. The ruins of Nineveh are
all below the surface of the earth, and the little of them that is now left exposed, is less
complete and interesting than the specimens in the British Museum.

There is a route from Damascus to Baghdad, across the Desert, by way of Palmyra, but it is
rarely travelled, even by the natives, except when the caravans are sufficiently strong to
withstand the attacks of the Bedouins. The traveller is obliged to go in Arab costume, to leave
his baggage behind, except a meagre scrip for the journey, and to pay from $300 to $500 for
the camels and escort. The more usual route is to come northward to this city, then cross to
Mosul and descend the Tigris--a journey of four or five weeks. After weighing all the advantages
and disadvantages of undertaking a tour of such length as it would be necessary to make before
reaching Constantinople, I decided at Beyrout to give up the fascinating fields of travel in
Media, Assyria and Armenia, and take a rather shorter and-perhaps equally interesting route
from Aleppo to Constantinople, by way of Tarsus, Konia (Iconium), and the ancient countries
of Phrygia, Bithynia, and Mysia. The interior of Asia Minor is even less known to us than the
Persian side of Asiatic Turkey, which has of late received more attention from travellers;
and, as I shall traverse it in its whole length, from Syria to the Bosphorus, I may find it
replete with "green fields and pastures new," which shall repay me for relinquishing the first
and more ambitious undertaking. At least, I have so much reason to be grateful for the uninterrupted
good health and good luck I have enjoyed during seven months in Africa and the Orient, that
I cannot be otherwise than content with the prospect before me.

I left Beyrout on the night of the 28th of May, with Mr. Harrison, who has decided to keep
me company as far as Constantinople. François, our classic dragoman, whose great delight is
to recite Homer by the sea-side, is retained for the whole tour, as we have found no reason
to doubt his honesty or ability. Our first thought was to proceed to Aleppo by land, by way
of Homs and Hamah, whence there might be a chance of reaching Palmyra; but as we found an opportunity
of engaging an American yacht for the voyage up the coast, it was thought preferable to take
her, and save time. She was a neat little craft, called the "American Eagle," brought out by
Mr. Smith, our Consul at Beyrout. So, one fine moonlit night, we slowly crept out of the harbor,
and after returning a volley of salutes from our friends at Demetri's Hotel, ran into the heart
of a thunder-storm, which poured down more rain than all I had seen for eight months before.
But our raïs, Assad (the Lion), was worthy of his name, and had two good Christian sailors
at his command, so we lay in the cramped little cabin, and heard the floods washing our deck,
without fear.

In the morning, we were off Tripoli, which is even more deeply buried than Beyrout in its orange
and mulberry groves, and slowly wafted along the bold mountain-coast, in the afternoon reached
Tartus, the Ancient Tortosa. A mile from shore is the rocky island of Aradus, entirely covered
by a town. There were a dozen vessels lying in the harbor. The remains of a large fortress
and ancient mole prove it to have been a place of considerable importance. Tartus is a small
old place on the sea-shore--not so large nor so important in appearance as its island-port.
The country behind is green and hilly, though but partially cultivated, and rises into Djebel
Ansairiyeh, which divides the valley of the Orontes from the sea. It is a lovely coast, especially
under the flying lights and shadows of such a breezy day as we had. The wind fell at sunset;
but by the next morning, we had passed the tobacco-fields of Latakiyeh, and were in sight of
the southern cape of the Bay of Suediah. The mountains forming this cape culminate in a grand
conical peak, about 5,000 feet in height, called Djebel Okrab. At ten o'clock, wafted along
by a slow wind, we turned the point and entered the Bay of Suediah, formed by the embouchure
of the River Orontes. The mountain headland of Akma Dagh, forming the portal of the Gulf of
Scanderoon, loomed grandly in front of us across the bay; and far beyond it, we could just
distinguish the coast of Karamania, the snow-capped range of Taurus.

The Coasts of Syria might be divided, like those of Guinea, according to the nature of their
productions. The northern division is bold and bare, yet flocks of sheep graze on the slopes
of its mountains; and the inland plains behind them are covered with orchards of pistachio-trees.
Silk is cultivated in the neighborhood of Suediah, but forms only a small portion of the exports.
This region may be called the Wool and Pistachio Coast. Southward, from Latakiyeh to Tartus
and the northern limit of Lebanon, extends the Tobacco Coast, whose undulating hills are now
clothed with the pale-green leaves of the renowned plant. From Tripoli to Tyre, embracing all
the western slope of Lebanon, and the deep, rich valleys lying between his knees, the mulberry
predominates, and the land is covered with the houses of thatch and matting which shelter the
busy worms. This is the Silk Coast. The palmy plains of Jaffa, and beyond, until Syria meets
the African sands between Gaza and El-Arish, constitute the Orange Coast. The vine, the olive,
and the fig flourish everywhere.

We were all day getting up the bay, and it seemed as if we should never pass Djebel Okrab,
whose pointed top rose high above a long belt of fleecy clouds that girdled his waist. At sunset
we made the mouth of the Orontes. Our lion of a Captain tried to run into the river, but the
channel was very narrow, and when within three hundred yards of the shore the yacht struck.
We had all sail set, and had the wind been a little stronger, we should have capsized in an
instant. The lion went manfully to work, and by dint of hard poling, shoved us off, and came
to anchor in deep water. Not until the danger was past did he open his batteries on the unlucky
helmsman, and then the explosion of Arabic oaths was equal to a broadside of twenty-four pounders.
We lay all night rocking on the swells, and the next morning, by firing a number of signal
guns, brought out a boat, which took us off. We entered the mouth of the Orontes, and sailed
nearly a mile between rich wheat meadows before reaching the landing-place of Suediah--two
or three uninhabited stone huts, with three or four small Turkish craft, and a health officer.
The town lies a mile or two inland, scattered along the hill-side amid gardens so luxuriant
as almost to conceal it from view.

This part of the coast is ignorant of travellers, and we were obliged to wait half a day before
we could find a sufficient number of horses to take us to Antioch, twenty miles distant. When
they came, they were solid farmers' horses, with the rudest gear imaginable. I was obliged
to mount astride of a broad pack-saddle, with my legs suspended in coils of rope. Leaving the
meadows, we entered a lane of the wildest, richest and loveliest bloom and foliage. Our way
was overhung with hedges of pomegranate, myrtle, oleander, and white rose, in blossom, and
occasionally with quince, fig, and carob trees, laced together with grape vines in fragrant
bloom. Sometimes this wilderness of color and odor met above our heads and made a twilight;
then it opened into long, dazzling, sun-bright vistas, where the hues of the oleander, pomegranate
and white rose made the eye wink with their gorgeous profusion. The mountains we crossed were
covered with thickets of myrtle, mastic, daphne, and arbutus, and all the valleys and sloping
meads waved with fig, mulberry, and olive trees. Looking towards the sea, the valley broadened
out between mountain ranges whose summits were lost in the clouds. Though the soil was not
so rich as in Palestine, the general aspect of the country was much wilder and more luxuriant.

So, by this glorious lane, over the myrtled hills and down into valleys, whose bed was one
hue of rose from the blossoming oleanders, we travelled for five hours, crossing the low ranges
of hills through which the Orontes forces his way to the sea. At last we reached a height overlooking
the valley of the river, and saw in the east, at the foot of the mountain chain, the long lines
of barracks built by Ibrahim Pasha for the defence of Antioch. Behind them the ancient wall
of the city clomb the mountains, whose crest it followed to the last peak of the chain, From
the next hill we saw the city--a large extent of one-story houses with tiled roofs, surrounded
with gardens, and half buried in the foliage of sycamores. It extends from the River Orontes,
which washes its walls, up the slope of the mountain to the crags of gray rock which overhang
it. We crossed the river by a massive old bridge, and entered the town. Riding along the rills
of filth which traverse the streets, forming their central avenues, we passed through several
lines of bazaars to a large and dreary-looking khan, the keeper of which gave us the best vacant
chamber--a narrow place, full of fleas.

Antioch presents not even a shadow of its former splendor. Except the great walls, ten to fifteen
miles in circuit, which the Turks have done their best to destroy, every vestige of the old
city has disappeared. The houses are all of one story, on account of earthquakes, from which
Antioch has suffered more than any other city in the world. At one time, during the Middle
Ages, it lost 120,000 inhabitants in one day. Its situation is magnificent, and the modern
town, notwithstanding its filth, wears a bright and busy aspect. Situated at the base of a
lofty mountain, it overlooks, towards the east, a plain thirty or forty miles in length, producing
the most abundant harvests. A great number of the inhabitants are workers in wood and leather,
and very thrifty and cheerful people they appear to be.

We remained until the next day at noon, by which time a gray-bearded scamp, the chief of the
mukkairees, or muleteers, succeeded in getting us five miserable beasts for the journey to
Aleppo. On leaving the city, we travelled along a former street of Antioch, part of the ancient
pavement still remaining, and after two miles came to the old wall of circuit, which we passed
by a massive gateway, of Roman time. It is now called Bab Boulos, or St. Paul's Gate. Christianity,
it will be remembered, was planted in Antioch by Paul and Barnabas, and the Apostle Peter was
the first bishop of the city. We now entered the great plain of the Orontes--a level sea, rioting
in the wealth of its ripening harvests. The river, lined with luxuriant thickets, meandered
through the centre of this glorious picture. We crossed it during the afternoon, and keeping
on our eastward course, encamped at night in a meadow near the tents of some wandering Turcomans,
who furnished us with butter and milk from their herds.

Leaving the plain the next morning, we travelled due east all day, over long stony ranges of
mountains, inclosing only one valley, which bore evidence of great fertility. It was circular,
about ten miles in its greater diameter, and bounded on the north by the broad peak of Djebel
Saman, or Mount St. Simon. In the morning we passed a ruined castle, standing in a dry, treeless
dell, among the hot hills. The muleteers called it the Maiden's Palace, and said that it was
built long ago by a powerful Sultan, as a prison for his daughter. For several hours thereafter,
our road was lined with remains of buildings, apparently dating from the time of the Greek
Empire. There were tombs, temples of massive masonry, though in a bad style of architecture,
and long rows of arched chambers, which resembled store-houses. They were all more or less
shattered by earthquakes, but in one place I noticed twenty such arches, each of at least twenty
feet span. All-the hills, on either hand, as far as we could see, were covered with the remains
of buildings. In the plain of St. Simon, I saw two superb pillars, apparently part of a portico,
or gateway, and the village of Dana is formed almost entirely of churches and convents, of
the Lower Empire. There were but few inscriptions, and these I could not read; but the whole
of this region would, no doubt, richly repay an antiquarian research. I am told here that the
entire chain of hills, which extends southward for more than a hundred miles, abounds with
similar remains, and that, in many places, whole cities stand almost entire, as if recently
deserted by their inhabitants.

During the afternoon, we came upon a portion of the ancient road from Antioch to Aleppo, which
is still as perfect as when first constructed. It crossed a very stony ridge, and is much the
finest specimen of road-making I ever saw, quite putting to shame the Appian and Flaminian
Ways at Rome. It is twenty feet wide, and laid with blocks of white marble, from two to four
feet square. It was apparently raised upon a more ancient road, which diverges here and there
from the line, showing the deeply-cut traces of the Roman chariot-wheels. In the barren depths
of the mountains we found every hour cisterns cut in the rock and filled with water left by
the winter rains. Many of them, however, are fast drying up, and a month later this will be
a desert road.

Towards night we descended from the hills upon the Plain of Keftin, which stretches south-westward
from Aleppo, till the mountain-streams which fertilize it are dried up, when it is merged into
the Syrian Desert. Its northern edge, along which we travelled, is covered with fields of wheat,
cotton, and castor-beans. We stopped all night at a village called Taireb, planted at the foot
of a tumulus, older than tradition. The people were in great dread of the Aneyzeh Arabs, who
come in from the Desert to destroy their harvests and carry off their cattle. They wanted us
to take a guard, but after our experience on the Anti-Lebanon, we felt safer without one.

