We flash past Linwood to stop a moment at Claymont, where the ridge comes nearer the river
and offers superb sites for buildings. Why Claymont has not grown more no one seems to know.
There are schools and churches, fine rolling land, noble river-views, and all that can make
a country home delightful. That the place has attractions for lovers of the picturesque may
be inferred from the fact that it counts among its residents an artist of such wide and well-founded
celebrity as Mr. F.O.C. Darley, whose delineations of American life and scenery, especially
in the form of book-illustrations, have been familiar to the public for the past thirty years.
With so many years of fame, Mr. Darley counts but fifty-two of life, and in the enjoyment of
vigorous health still continues the practice of his art, executing many commissions from Europe,
where his genius is as highly appreciated as at home.

But we must stick to our train, which carries us through the Red Bank Cut to Ellerslie Station,
where occurred the first accident of a serious character which has happened on this road for
eighteen years, and which was due only to a willful violation of orders by an old and very
trusted conductor. At Ellerslie are the Edgemoor Iron-works of Messrs. William Sellers & Co.,
where every known improvement in the manufacture of iron is being tested and applied. The next
curve in the road shows us the meadows of the Shell Pot and the Brandywine, with Wilmington
in the distance. The Brandywine, famous in our history, runs through as picturesque a valley
as there is in America, combining all that the climate of Delaware permits in trees, shrubs,
vines and flowers with the wildness and variety of the valley of the Pemigewasset or the wild
Ammonoosuck. In this rare valley are mills as old as the settlement of the country, and quaint
hamlets that seem to belong to Europe rather than America.

At Wilmington the system of the Delaware railroads begins: it spreads out over the peninsula
of Delaware and the Eastern Shore of Maryland like a huge left hand. The thumb touches Chestertown
and Centreville, the fore finger Oxford, the middle finger Cambridge, the ring finger Crisfield,
the little finger Lewes; and this hand gathers into the main road every year millions of baskets
of peaches, and millions more of oysters in baskets and sacks, and crates of berries, and car-loads
of hardwood and lumber. Under the influence of these roads the sleepy peninsula is beginning
a new career.

We cannot go down the peninsula, so let us keep on to Baltimore, pausing, however, for a moment
as we cross Mason and Dixon's line near Elkton. Little did Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon
dream, as they set that tangent point for the determination of the boundary-lines of the three
States, how famous they would become. But there the simple monument stands in the open fields,
and there it must remain so long as the three States need a boundary.

