Autobiographies are not the only memoirs in which there is scope for the display of vanity.
Some men flatter themselves by connecting their names on a title-page with the name of some
great character of the past. Self-love quickens their admiration of their hero, and admiration
for their hero gratifies their self-love. Mr. Harford belongs to this class of biographers.
The title and the appearance of his volumes excite expectations which acquaintance with them
disappoints. The book is not a mere harmless piece of literary presumption; it is a positive
evil, as cumbering ground which might be better occupied, and as giving such authority as it
may acquire to false views of Art and to numerous errors of fact. There was need of a good
biography of Michel Angelo, and Mr. Harford has made a bad one. The defects of the book are
both external and essential. Mr. Harford's mind is of the commonplace order, and incapable
of a true appreciation either of the character or the works of such a man as Michel Angelo.
He has no sympathetic insight into the depths of human nature. Nor has he the method and power
of arrangement, such as may often be found in otherwise second-rate biographers, which might
enable him to set forth the external facts of a life in such lucid and intelligible order as
to exhibit the force of circumstances and position in moulding the character. His learning,
of which there is a considerable display, appears on examination shallow and superficial, and
his style of writing is often clumsy, and never elegant.

Michel Angelo, like all great men of genius, is the reflex and express image of many of the
ruling characteristics and tendencies of his time. The strongest natures receive the strongest
impressions, and the most marked individuality pervades the character which is yet the clearest
and best defined type of its own age. The decline of religious faith, the vagueness of the
prevailing religious philosophy, and the approach of the Reformation, are all to be predicated
from the "Last Judgment" in the Sistine Chapel; the impending fall of Art is to be read in
the form of the "Moses" of San Pietro in Vincoli; the luxury and pomp of the Papal Court and
Church are manifest in the architecture of St. Peter's, whose dome is swollen with earthly
pride; the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel betrays the recoil toward heathenism from the vices
and corruptions that then hung round Christianity; and the Sacristy of San Lorenzo is the saddest
and grandest exhibition that those days afforded of the infidelity into which the best men
were forced.

Vasari and Condivi are the great providers of facts in relation to Michel Angelo, and they
have left little to be desired in this respect. The garrulous fondness of Vasari leads him
into delightful Boswellian details, and gives us more than a mere outline narrative. Mr. Harford
has transferred much of Vasari's writing to his own pages, but has succeeded in translating
or mistranslating all vitality out of it.

Mr. Harford has attempted, by giving sketches of the chief characters of Florence and of Rome
during Michel Angelo's life, to show some of the personal influences which most affected him.
But his bricks all lie separate; they are not built up with mortar that holds them together.
A superficial account of the Platonic Academy is inserted to show the effect of the fashionable
philosophy of Florence upon the youthful artist; but it is so done that we learn little more
from it than that the Academy existed, that Michel Angelo was a member of it, and that he wrote
some poems in which some Platonic ideas are expressed. There is no philosophic analysis of
the individual Platonism which is apparent, not only in his poems, but in some of his paintings,--no
exhibition of its connection with the other portions of his intellectual development. Michel
Angelo's ideas of beauty, of the relation of the arts, of the connection between Art and Religion,
deserve fuller investigation than they have yet received. His tremendous power has exerted
such a control over sensitive, imaginative, and weak minds, that even his errors have been
accepted as models, and his false ideas as principles of authority. Mr. Harford's book will
do little to assist in the formation of a true judgment upon these and similar points.

But we will not confine our notice to assertions; we will exhibit at least some of the minor
faults upon which our assertions are based,--for it would demand larger space than we could
give to enter upon the illustration of the principal faults of the book. First, then, for inaccuracies
of statement,--which are the less to be excused, as Mr. Harford had ample opportunity for correctness.
For instance, in the description of the tombs of the Medici, Mr. Harford writes of the famous
figures of Aurora and Twilight, Day and Night: "The four figures that adorn the tombs are allegorical;
and they are specially worthy of notice, because they first set the example of connecting ornamental
appendages of this description with funereal monuments. Introduced by so great an authority,
this example was quickly followed throughout the whole of Europe." The carelessness of this
assertion is curious. The custom of connecting allegorical figures with funereal monuments
had prevailed in Italy for a long time before Michel Angelo. Perhaps the most striking and
familiar instance, and one with which Mr. Harford must have been acquainted, is that afforded
by the tombs of the Scaligeri at Verona, where, on the monument to Can Signorio, of the latter
part of the fourteenth century, appear Faith, Hope, Charity, Prudence, and other allegorical
figures.

Again, in speaking of the old basilica of St. Peter's, he speaks of the unusual Orientalism
of this the principal church of Western Europe, whose entrance is towards the east and the
altar to the west. Now this Orientalism is by no means unusual in the churches at Rome. Indeed,
it seems to have been the rule of building for the early churches,--and Santa Maria Maggiore,
San Giovanni Laterano, San Sebastiano, San Clemente, and innumerable others, exhibit it in
their construction. The priest, officiating at the altar, which stood advanced into the church,
looked toward the east.

Again, Mr. Harford says, "The pencil of Giotto was employed by Benedict XII. in the year 1340";
but he does not tell us how the pencil answered the purpose for which it was employed in a
hand other than its master's. Giotto died in 1336.

