PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 150.

APRIL 12, 1916

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARIVARIA.

We are in a position to state that the efficiency of Germany's new submersible Zeppelins has
been greatly exaggerated.

       ***

Many schemes for coping with our £2,100,000,000 War indebtedness are before the authorities,
and at least one dear old lady has written suggesting that they should hold a bazaar.

       ***

It is stated that the monkey market at Constantinople, which for hundreds of years has supplied
the baboons found in Turkish harems, has closed down. German competition is said to be responsible
for the incident.

       ***

The Government's indifference to the balloon type of aircraft has received a further illustration.
They have rejected Highgate's fat conscript.

       ***

German scientists are now making explosives out of heather. Fortunately the secret of making
Highlanders out of the same material still remains in our hands.

       ***

Deference to one's superiors in rank is all very well up to a point, but we should never go
so far as to allow an article by a titled war-correspondent to be headed "The Great Offensive
at Verdun."

       ***

British songsters, says a writer in The Daily Chronicle, are now being illegally used to regale
the wealthy gourmets of the West End in place of the foreign varieties, which can no longer
be imported. For ourselves, who are nothing if not British, we are glad of any sign that native
musicians are coming by their own.

       ***

The practice of interning travellers in Tube and other stations during the progress of Zeppelin
raids on the North-East Coast having become extremely popular, it is suggested that some much-needed
revenue might be obtained by imposing a small tax--a penny, say, per hour--upon those who thus
enjoy the protection and hospitality of our railways.

       ***

It is officially announced that Oxford is to have no more Rhodes Kolossals.

       ***

Lord ROBERT CECIL admitted in Parliament last week that the contraband list is to be enlarged,
and it is rumoured that, notwithstanding the serious effect the step may have in the United
States and elsewhere, the list will be extended to include munitions of war.

       ***

A prominent City barber points out to an Evening News correspondent that it would be most unfortunate
if the high cost of shaves should result in a discontinuance of the practice of tipping the
operator, and adds that only two of the services have increased in price. He means, of course,
to draw attention to the fact that sporting chatter, dislocation of the neck, and the removal
of superfluous portions of the ears are still provided free of charge.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anti-Climax.

From a feuilleton (showing what our serial fictionists have to put up with):--

    "'To-morrow?' repeated Rosalie, dully. 'I'm afraid I can't
    to-morrow.'

    To-morrow----!

    There will be another fine instalment to-morrow."--Daily
    Mirror.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF COCOA

AND CERTAIN OLD ASSOCIATIONS REVIVED BY A DRAUGHT OF THIS NUTRITIOUS BEAN.

["The rate on cocoa is raised from 1-1/2d. to 6d. per lb." (Loud cheers).

The CHANCELLOR'S Budget Speech.]

  Now, ere the price thereof goes soaring up,
    Ere yet the devastating tax comes in,
  I wish to wallow in the temperate cup
    (Loud cheers) that not inebriates, like gin;
  Ho, waiter! bring me--nay, I do not jest--
        A cocoa of the best!

  Noblest of all non-alcoholic brews,
    Rich nectar of the Nonconformist Press,
  Tasting of CADBURY and The Daily News,
    Of passive martyrs and the law's distress,
  And redolent of the old narcotic spice
        Of peace-at-any-price--

  What memories, how intolerably sweet,
    Hover about its fat and unctuous fumes!
  Of Little England and a half-baked Fleet,
    Of German friendship pure as vernal blooms,
  And that dear country's hallowed right to dump
        Things on us in the lump;

  Of tropic isles whereon this beverage springs,
    And niggers sweating out their pagan souls;
  Of British workmen, flattered even as kings,
    So to secure their suffrage at the polls;
  Of liberty for all to go on strike
        Just when and where they like.

  I would renew these wistful dreams to-night;
    For, since upon my precious nibs, when ground,
  McKENNA's minions, with to-morrow's light,
    Will plant a tax of sixpence in the pound,
  My sacred memories, cheap enough before,
        Will clearly cost me more.

  O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER SCRAP OF PAPER.

I look all right, and I feel all right, but the doctor said the Army was no place for me. Having
given me a piece of paper which said so, he looked over my head and called out, "Next, please."
It was with this document I was going to produce a delicious thrill--what I might call an "electric"
moment. I carefully rehearsed what should happen, though I was not quite sure what attitude
to adopt--whether to give the impression that I was a member of a pacific society, look elaborately
unconcerned or truculently youthful. This, I decided, had better be left to the psychological
moment.

I would take my seat or strap in the crowded tram or train. Observing that I wore neither khaki
nor armlet someone would want to know why "a big, strong, healthy-looking fellow like you was
not in the Army." I should then try to look pacific or elaborately--see above again. But I
should say nothing. My studied silence would annoy everybody. I was quite sure of this, because
I really can do that sort of silence very well. The inevitable old woman with a bundle would
fix me with her watery eye. "The man in the street," who, of course, would now be in the tram
or train, would give a brief history of his three sons and one brother-in-law at the Front.
The armleted conductor (we are now in the tram) would give my ticket a very rude punch and
my penny a very angry stare. When I was quite sure I had been set down as a slacker, I should
produce the doctor's certificate of exemption. In my ultra-polite manner, which is nearly as
good as my annoying silence, I should hand it to the man whose three sons and one brother-in-law
had evidently been writing for more cigarettes. I would then say, "I know you can talk. It
is possible you can read. Would you be good enough to read aloud this certificate?" It would
be read and then handed back to me. I would fold it carefully and place it in my inside pocket.
Looking very tenderly at the long row of rebuked countenances, I should get up and make for
the door. This would be the delicious thrill, the electric moment. The following is what did
happen.

I was on the Tube. Conditions were favourable, as Sir OLIVER LODGE would say to Mrs. PIPER.
The old woman with the bundle was not there, but the shop-girl with three regimental brooches
was. Everything was going as well as I could have wished. The shop-girl closed her novel and
fingered her brooches. A fat old gentleman sniffed vigorously, and someone asked why "a big,
strong, healthy, etc., etc." Nobody seemed to be impressed by my splendid silence, but it was
there all the same, and somebody was going to be very sorry before he got home. I touched my
tie and lit a fresh cigarette. The air was tense. I could almost see my electric moment walking
down the compartment to meet me. We were nearing a station. I felt in my pocket.

I had left the certificate at home!

       *       *       *       *       *

HOME HELPS FOR NON-COMBATANTS.

THE ARMY AND NAVY EXEMPTIONS SUPPLY ASSOCIATION, LIMITED, offer facilities for the evasion
of military service.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ladies supplied to act as Widowed Stepmothers to young Slackers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gentlemen not desirous of serving should inspect one of our Bijou Residences. Bath (h. and
c.); rent inclusive. District enjoys best water supply and most lenient Exemption Tribunal
in the Home Counties.

       *       *       *       *       *

Persons requiring the Loan of Children may obtain these useful aids to exemption in lots of
not less than half-a-dozen (mixed), by the day, week, or month, as desired.

       *       *       *       *       *

FLAT FOOT IN TWELVE DAYS! A GENUINE DISCOVERY.

Gentlemen wishing to acquire this useful impediment may do so with secrecy and despatch on
application (with fee). No permanent disability need be feared, a certain cure being guaranteed
within one calendar month after date of signing peace, upon payment of a further fee.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEARN TO FAINT.

One Correspondence Course will teach you this useful art in two and a half lessons.

       *       *       *       *       *

Do you want not to go to the Front? Then try our LITTLE WHITE LIVER PILLS and you will never
have another worry. Dose: One, once. Sold everywhere.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO LOOK OLD. A USEFUL WRINKLE.

No more worry. No matter how youthful your appearance, in TEN MINUTES we can make you look

  AS GREY AS GRANDPA.

Call and inspect our appliances. They will convince you.

       *       *       *       *       *

Are you a MAN OF GENIUS? And young? And in perfect health? We will see that you are saved for
your country. In the words of one of our exempted clients:--

  "For why should youth aglow with gifts divine
  Be driven forth to glut the foreign swine?"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

XXXVII.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--This letter is written in England, but the reason for my presence here is
not to be dismissed in a breath or mentioned first anyhow. It is to be led up to gradually,
the music being stopped and the audience being asked to refrain from shuffling their feet about
and coughing when we come to the critical moment.

Reviewing my military career, I do not look upon myself as great; I look upon myself rather
as very great. Even at the beginning of it I had a distinct way with me. I would say to fifty
men, "Form fours," and sure enough they would form them. I would then rearrange my ideas and
say, "Form two-deep," and there, in the twinkling of an eye, was your two deep. This is not
common, I think; it was just something in me, some peculiar gift for which I was not responsible.
So pleasing was the effect that I would sometimes go on repeating the process for ten minutes
or so, and every time it fell out exactly as I said it would, no one ever daring to suggest
that the sooner I settled down to a definite policy, whether in fours or twos, the sooner the
War would end.

For six months I continued performing this difficult and dangerous work, only once making the
mistake of ordering my men to take a left turn and myself taking a right one. Fortunately this
happened in a local town of tortuous by-ways, and so it fell out that I and my platoon only
met again later in the day; and a most touching meeting it was. Discussing the matter afterwards
with my C.O., I inclined to the view that it was an accident which I, for my part, was quite
ready to forgive and forget. My C.O. was, however, out of sorts at the moment; in fact he let
his tongue run away with him. He even proposed to put me on the Barrack Square for a month,
a suggestion which caused my Adjutant (who was interfering as usual) to smile quite unpleasantly.
I just looked them straight in the face and said nothing. This, I think, was little short of
masterly on my part, since I knew all the time, and knew that they know, that there was in
fact no Barrack Square thereabouts to put me on.

After this my men did so extraordinarily well that I became a marked man. I was, in fact, invited
to step over to France and to give some practical demonstrations in the art of making war.
To pack a few articles into a bag and to parade my men was with me the work of a moment. Before
starting it was, however, proper to address a pre-battle speech to them. Silence was enjoined
and I spoke, spoke simply and honestly as a great soldier should. "Form fours," said I, and
paused dramatically. "Form two-deep," I continued, and my meaning was understood. "Form fours,"
I concluded ... and we were ready for the worst.

So we moved away for the Field. We did this, I remember, at 5 A.M. Not a moment was to be lost.
Our train started at noon and we had three miles to march to the station. Running it pretty
close, wasn't it?

Never shall I forget the anxious faces which greeted our arrival at the French port. "Nip up
to the trenches," said O.C. megaphone, "and save the situation if you can." Up to the trenches
we nipped, covering the distance of sixty miles in less than three weeks. There was no doubt
about our willingness and ability to do as we were told; our only difficulty was to discover
in the dark where the situation was. Never shall I forget the tense strain that first night,
my men standing to arms through the long hours, with their rifles pointing into the darkness
beyond. But not a shot was fired, and when dawn broke all was well. True, the first light revealed
the fact that I had got us all with our backs to the enemy, so that if there had been a battle
it would have been between ourselves and Mr. Jones's platoon. But you can't have everything;
and sense of direction never was my strong point. Never shall I forget our first breakfast
in the trenches. It consisted of bacon and eggs, marmalade and tea. How strange and novel an
experience it was to be at war!

Never shall I forget.... Now I know there was something else, but there are such a lot of things
that I am never going to forget about this War that I cannot be expected to remember them all.
It was something about someone not shaving, and being in the rear rank while the front rank
was being inspected, and in the front rank while the rear rank was being inspected. It was
by such brilliance of strategy as this that I was able to do the Bosch out of that little dinner
he meant to have in Paris. It was owing to the same, and to my being overheard to remark that
I could run the blessed War by myself better than this, that I was given a pen and a piece
of blotting-paper and told to carry on. After which, of course, the wretched Bosch never even
got as far as Calais.

Truly a remarkable man! But hear the crisis of my career.

This letter is written in England. If you would only read your morning paper properly, you
would know why. Looking down the Births Column to see if anybody you know has been born, you
would have noticed that We, Henry, are the father of a son, a tall, good-looking fellow, who
weighs eight, eighteen or eighty pounds (I could not be sure which) and is a man of few words,
obviously the strong silent sort.

On hearing the news we at once reported our achievement to the Staff and asked what we were
to do about it. We were informed that, as far as we were concerned, the War stood adjourned
for eight days. Later, as we stood in the street trying to think it all out and to remodel
our demeanour so as to suggest the responsibility and respectability of a father, we were asked
severely why we were standing idle, and told that, unless we were seen forthwith moving off
for England at the double, action would be taken. So home, where we were very respectfully
saluted by the New Draft. A strange but nice woman who had the parade in hand invited us to
come a little closer, but this we refused to do, giving as our reason that we were beginning
as we meant to go on and that undue familiarity is bad for discipline. We then addressed a
few kind words to the Lady in the Case, who appeared to take it all very much as a matter of
course, and with her discussed future dispositions. The Army and the Bar were negatived at
once; it was suggested (not by us) that we have already in our small family an example sufficiently
fortunate of both. He will be a sailor or a financier. There is something about sailors; it
is always a pleasure and a pride to take one of them out to dinner in a public place, especially
if he's your own. On the other hand the financier alternative is suggested with a view to the
possibility (as things tend) that it may be he who has to take us out to dinner.

  Yours ever, HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The fall of rain during February in Exeter amounted to 5.39
    inches. During the same month 80 hours 58 mins. of sunshine were
    recorded, being an average of 2 hours 42 mins. per day. The
    chief tradesmen of the district are responsible for this
    gratifying result."

    Express and Echo (Exeter).

They seem to be easily satisfied down in the West. If London tradesmen take to purveying the
weather we shall want a little less rain and a good deal more sunshine.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN PRAISE OF PUSSY.

    [Professor ROBERT WALLACE, of Edinburgh University, has been
    defending the cat as a useful member of society and a defence
    against the ravages of plague, and encourages the breeding,
    collecting and distributing of types of cats known to be
    "superior ratters."]

  In these days of stress and passion
  Feline charms are out of fashion,
    And the cult of Pasht is coldly looked upon;
  But cat-lovers may take solace
  From the words of ROBERT WALLACE,
    Who's a scientific Edinboro' don.

  Cats as lissome merry minxes,
  Or impenetrable Sphinxes--
    Leonine, aloof, impassive, topaz-eyed--
  Leave our staid professor chilly,
  For he clearly thinks it silly
    To regard them from the decorative side.

  It is not their grace, now serious,
  Now malicious, now mysterious,
    That appeals to his utilitarian mind;
  But, when viewed as extirpators
  Of disease-disseminators,
    Then he looks with admiration on their kind.

  For if cats should ever shun us
  Rats with plague would overrun us,
    And they're bad enough on economic grounds;
  For their annual depredation
  On the food-stuffs of the nation
    He would estimate at twenty million pounds.

  True, O Puss, romance is lacking
  In your latest champion's backing,
    But at least he isn't talking through his hat;
  And if, after all, what matters
  Is to have "superior ratters"--
    Well, he pays the highest homage to the Cat.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEROISM.

There are heroes and heroes. All heroes are heroes: that is certain. But there are some heroes
whose heroism involves more thought (shall I say?), more material, than that of others, who
are heroic in a kind of rush, without any premeditation--heroic by instinct. Now it seems to
me that the rewards of the more complex heroes ought--but let me illustrate.

I have a friend who is a hero. The other day in France he did one of the most desperate things,
and did it apparently as a matter of course; and he is to have the V.C. for it. But is the
V.C. enough'? If it's enough for the instinctive heroes, is it enough for him? That is my question.
The secret history of his deed is known only to me and to himself, and when I give you an idea
of it you will be able to answer.

I will tell you.

Never mind what the deed was. All I will say is that it is comparable to the glorious feat
of Lieutenant WARNEFORD, who bombed the Zeppelin from above and sent it crashing down. My friend
is an aviator too, and since I am not allowed to describe his great performance in detail let
us pretend that it was an exact replica of the WARNEFORD triumph. Armed with his bombs he saw
the approaching Zepp and flew high, six or seven thousand feet, to get above it. So far he
had merely obeyed the dictates of his brave impulsive nature. He had given no thought to the
chances of danger or death, but had flown direct to his duty. So far he was instinctive. But
my friend, as well as being unusually brave, is a singularly retiring kind of man. He hates
publicity, ostentation. Very shy and very quiet, he moves about the world unperceived, and
has all the reluctances of the anchorite. Nothing but his deep feeling about the War could
have got him to do anything as prominent as aviation, so that it is not unnatural that, as
he mounted higher and higher and came nearer and nearer to the desired point over the Zepp,
he should suddenly realise what it would mean for him if he succeeded in bringing it down.

Not that he had too much time for such reflections, for until the envelope intervened between
him and the Zepp's marksmen he was being blazed at steadily. Bullets whistled about him. But
one thinks swiftly, and in a flash he saw the extremely distasteful consequences to humility,
and the dislocation of his secluded way of life if, dropping his bombs accurately, he earned
(as he was bound to do) the Victoria Cross. All this he saw, and was properly furious at his
bad luck--at the trick that destiny had played on him. He then dropped the bombs, the envelope
ignited, and the Zepp, with its crew and its deadly cargo, fell to earth and was blown to atoms.

Now my point is that for such a hero as my friend, whose whole soul is to be outraged by publicity
and réclame, and much of whose dearly loved privacy is to be lost for ever, there ought to
be a V.C. above and beyond the ordinary V.C.--a super V.C.; for he performed not one deed,
but two: he not only destroyed the Zepp but he surrendered his sanctuary.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Exhibition of Mr. Punch's War Cartoons is now being held at the Leicester Galleries, Leicester
Square.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE PRINCE OF ARTILLERYMEN

WHO RECENTLY BROUGHT DOWN A ZEPPELIN.

  When, Gunner, through the breech you passed
    That wingéd messenger of death,
  And having made the breech-block fast,
    With pounding heart and bated breath
  Drew back the rod of tempered steel
    That frees the charge and fires the fuse,
  I would have given much to feel
    My feet in your distinguished shoes.

  But when your deadly missile burst
    Right on the rover, checked his speed,
  And made him rock like one whose thirst
    Has frankly caused him to exceed,
  You must have felt as feels a god
    To whom whole nations bend the knee--
  Whichever of the dozen odd
    Disputant gunners you may be.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Who can tell but what Rumania's watchful eye will yet sound the
    bugle note which at the psychological moment will unite the
    Balkan thrones?"--Shanghai Mercury.

Rumania seems to have something more than a speaking eye. It even plays tunes.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a German paper quoted by The Times:--

    "The German people fully recognises the nicely retiring manner
    of the Kaiser during this war."

The Allies are confident that it will receive further recognition before long.

       *       *       *       *       *

In an article entitled "The Superiority of German Strategy" the Frankfurter Zeitung says:--

    "The road before us is, however, long and calls for great
    achievements. We are not lacking in strength. Let us wait and
    see."

Mr. ASQUITH is wondering what this flattery portends.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "I have spoken of the good there is in grooves, in the groovy
    way of life ... Who can be blind to the fact that life in a
    groove leads to bigotry and nar-grooves, in the groovy way of
    life?"

    "Claudius Clear" in "The British Weekly."

Not we. We have never been blind to anything of the sort.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Little Lady, during all these months thoughts entirely with
    you, treasuring up unbleaching memory of happy hours spent
    together."--Advertisement in "The Times."

Presumably in the wash-house. Unless some confusion arose, in the mind of the advertiser, between
dying and bleaching.

       *       *       *       *       *

ECONOMY IN DRESS: THE NEW SMARTNESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MATCH PLAY.

Since the Budget was produced the match-mendicant is at work more industriously than ever,
patting his pockets and looking round expectantly at his fellow-travellers. The surreptitious
filling of private boxes in restaurants and club smoke-rooms is rapidly on the increase. Yet
if men would only meet the proposed match-tax calmly and thoughtfully they might still remain
honest and independent.

There are too many three-match men. Just as the tennis-player sends down the first ball into
the net with a fine abandon, and is more careful with the second, so the three-match man strikes
his first match without arresting his progress along the street, only slows down a little with
the second, and not until the third is in his fingers does he look about for a doorway.

If deep doorways and public telephone boxes were put to better use by the smokers of England
much waste of matches would be avoided.

And why do not men buy their matches in a businesslike way? Every man should ask to see them
before making a purchase. He should compare the brands, take note of the length and thickness
of the sticks, examine the size and quality of the heads, test the durability of the sides
of the boxes, compare the numbers in the various boxes, test the breaking strain of the matches
and the strength of the flares when struck, and time with a stop-watch the burning of a certain
length of match.

Many matches are ruined and wasted by harsh treatment. Strong men are apt to use their strength
like giants in striking their matches, with the result that the matches break, or their heads
are pulled off, or the side of the box is irreparably injured. Remember that the striking of
a match is more of a wrist movement than an arm movement. The man who strikes a match straight
from the shoulder deserves to lose it; and the average match is not made to be struck even
from the elbow. Many a man, puzzled at his lack of success in striking matches, will find the
secret of his failure in too vigorous a use of the forearm. The best plan--one that is adopted
by our leading actors and other experts--is to stand firmly with the feet about fourteen inches
apart, hold the box between the thumb and fingers of the left hand (be careful to avoid the
unsightly method, which some strikers adopt, of holding it in the palm), take the match about
one inch and an eighth from the head with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, bend
back the right wrist until the head of the match is two and a half inches from the end of the
box, and with a swift but not too sudden wrist-movement away from you rub the head of the match
against the side of the box. A little careful practice will soon get one into the way of judging
the distance accurately, so that, on the one hand, the box is not missed, and, on the other
hand, the head of the match is not too severely strafed.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Five Zeppelins were seen off the East Coast between nine and
    ten last night. They appeared to be rather larger machines than
    those visiting the coast on previous occasions. Measures were
    taken." Western Evening Herald.

We always use a simple foot-rule for this purpose.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Forty Thousand American inhabitants at Erzram were massacred by
    the Turks."

    Zululand Times.

More trouble for President WILSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, April 4th.--When introducing a Budget designed to raise a revenue of seventy or eighty
millions, Mr. GLADSTONE was wont to speak for four or five hours. Mr. McKENNA, confronted with
the task of raising over five hundred millions, polished off the job in exactly seventy-five
minutes. Mr. GLADSTONE used to consider it necessary to prepare the way for each new impost
by an elaborate argument. That was all very well in peace-time. But we are at war, when more
than ever time is money, and so Mr. McKENNA was content to rely upon the imperative formula
of the gentlemen of the road, "Stand and deliver."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment, it is true, he reverted to the old traditions of Budget-night. After observing
that there was no parallel in history to the willingness to be taxed which had been displayed
by the British people, he declared that it would be a mistake to drive this spirit of public
sacrifice too hard. The difficulty which many people had in maintaining a standard of life
suitable to their condition was described in such moving terms as to convince some of Mr. McKENNA's
more ingenuous hearers that the income-tax was not going to be raised after all.

They were quickly disillusionised. The rich will have to contribute (with super-tax) close
on half their incomes; the comparatively well-to-do a fourth; even the class to whose special
hardships the CHANCELLOR had just made such pathetic allusion will have to pay an additional
sixpence in the pound. If in the circumstances some of them feel inclined to echo Sir Peter
Teazle's remark to Joseph, "Oh, damn your sentiment," I think they may be excused.

That, however, was Mr. McKENNA's only lapse. The rest of his speech was ruthlessly and refreshingly
practical. The millions were ticked off as rapidly, and almost as mechanically, as the two-pences
in the other taxis. Five millions from cinemas, horse-races, and other amusements, three from
railway tickets, seven from sugar, two from mineral waters, another two from coffee and cocoa
(even the great Liberal drink cannot escape under a Cocoalition), and nearly a million from
motor vehicles.

Forty-five years ago Mr. LOWE proposed to extract "ex luce lucellum" by putting a tax of a
half-penny a box upon matches, and was duly punished for his pun. When the matchmakers of the
East-end (quite as dangerous in their way as those of the West-end) marched in procession to
the House of Commons, the Government bowed before the storm. Undeterred by their fate, Mr.
McKENNA now proposes to put a tax of 4d. on every thousand matches, and expects to get two
millions out of it. But it must not be forgotten that there are substitutes for matches; and
I should not be surprised if Mr. McKENNA himself has to put up with a spill.

Not much criticism was however to be heard to-night, though Mr. WILLIAM O'BRIEN gave it as
his opinion that Ireland ought to be omitted from the Budget altogether. Here somebody tactlessly
reminded him that a war was going on in Europe, and shunted him on to a less picturesque line
of argument.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Wednesday, April 5th.--Congratulations are due to the Earl of MEATH on a long-delayed triumph.
For fifteen years he has been trying to convince the British Government that there is an institution
called Empire Day. Throughout the Dominions, May 24th, QUEEN VICTORIA's birthday, is kept as
a public holiday, and even in the Old Country, despite official discouragement, the Union Jack
is hoisted on thousands of schools and saluted by millions of children. To the suggestion that
the public offices should be similarly adorned the Government, under the erroneous belief that
patriotism and militarism were identical, has hitherto maintained an unflagging opposition.
But to-day Lord CREWE admitted that the proposal was reasonable.

Sir GEORGE REID has made the surprising discovery that there are a number of excellent speakers
in the House of Commons who do not speak, but concentrate themselves upon the despatch of business.
Perhaps this was his genial way of indicating the more obvious fact that there are others of
a precisely opposite kind. He himself is an excellent speaker who speaks; but concentration
is perhaps hardly his strongest point, and he wandered to-day over so many fields that the
CHAIRMAN had more than once, with obvious regret, to recall him to the strict path of the Finance
Bill, which ultimately passed its first reading, amid cheers that it would have done the KAISER
good to hear.

Mr. PEMBERTON-BILLING, having been prevented by the Budget from making his usual Tuesday speech,
delivered it to-day, and had a success which was, I trust, as gratifying to him as it was surprising
to the House.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

At the close of his now customary catalogue of the defects he has discovered in our air-service,
he offered personally to organize raids upon the enemy's aircraft headquarters, and ventured
to believe that he could bag as many Zeppelins in a day as the Government could bring down
in a year by their present methods of misplaced guns and misplaced confidence.

Mr. TENNANT did not think our confidence was misplaced. But he would certainly accept Mr. BILLING's
offer, and would confer with him as to how to make the best use of his services. It seems probable,
therefore, that for some little time the House will have to do without its weekly lecture from
the Member for East Herts. Under the shadow of this impending bereavement Mr. TENNANT is bearing
up as well as can be expected.

Thursday, April 6th.--Everyone was delighted to see the PRIME MINISTER back in his place to-day
after his three weeks' absence. Members on both sides cheered loudly and long as he entered
the House. They also displayed a gratifying curiosity regarding his views on various subjects,
and to that end had put down no fewer than thirty-two questions for his consideration. The
amount of information they received was hardly commensurate with the industry displayed in
framing them. Mr. ASQUITH made, however, one announcement of great moment. The Government are
now considering how many recruits they have got, and how many they still want. They will then
announce their decision as to the method to be adopted for obtaining more, and will give a
day for its discussion. This is to be done before Easter. Asked how long the House would adjourn
for, Mr. ASQUITH replied, with obvious sincerity, "I hope for some time."

The great crisis of which we have heard so much in the newspapers is thus postponed. But a
little crisis, not altogether unconnected with the other, had still to be resolved. The Government
had a motion down to stop the payment of double salaries to Members on service, and to this
Sir FREDERICK BANBURY had tabled an amendment providing that Parliamentary salaries should
be dropped altogether. Mr. DUKE and other Unionists subsequently put down another amendment,
designed to stop the discussion of the larger question on the ground that it was a breach of
the party truce.

The SPEAKER however decided that Sir FREDERICK was entitled to first cut at the Banbury cake.
He made, as I thought, a very fair and not unduly partisan use of his opportunity, arguing
that the conditions of Parliamentary life had changed since the War, and that as Members were
no longer called upon to work hard they should save the country a quarter-of-a-million by dropping
their salaries.

No one, I think, was prepared for the tremendous blast of invective which came from Mr. DUKE.
In language which seemed to cause some trepidation even to the Ministers he was supporting
he denounced his right hon. friend for introducing "this stale and stinking bone of contention,"
and plainly hinted that it was part of a plot to get rid of the PRIME MINISTER. If that eminent
temperance advocate, Sir THOMAS WHITTAKER, had not poured water into Mr. DUKE's wine, and emptied
the House in the process, there might have been a painful scene.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"DISRAELI."

Our early-Victorian oligarchs disdained their DISRAELI as a mountebank because he wore the
wrong waistcoats and had genius instead of common-sense. If he had grown to be the least like
Mr. LOUIS NAPOLEON PARKER'S Disraeli, if he had taken to standing over Governors of the Bank
of England and forcing them to sign documents under threat of smashing up their silly old bank,
if he had been such a judge of men as to have made that prize ass, Lord Deeford, his secretary,
or conducted his menage at Downing Street in the highly diverting manner exhibited in Mr. PARKER's
second Act, one trembles to think what they would have called him--and done to him. And whether,
if the Bank had ever had such a Governor as Sir Michael Probert, England would have ever been
in a position to buy a single share in the Suez Canal or any other venture, is a question for
the curious to consider.

No wonder the Americans enjoyed Disraeli! REINHARDT should pirate it for Berlin, as it would
lend some colour to the imaginative Dr. HELLFERICH's airy dissertations on English finance.
Can it be that our author is a hyphenated patriot in disguise and that this is merely a ramification
of the so thorough German Press Bureau's activities? Perish the thought!

At the opening of the play, with Mr. Disraeli and his wife as guests at Glastonbury Towers,
all went well. The almost uncanny lifelikeness of Mr. DENNIS EADIE's make-up, the steady flow
of the great man's good things, which had been discerningly culled and quite skilfully put
together, his swift parries and kindly thrusts, his charming tenderness towards that best of
wives, the shining heroine of the crushed thumb, all this was admirable, was eminently believable--that
is if you except the exaggerated futility and insolence of the aristocratic background. It
was when the adventuress got going; when casements began to be mysteriously unlocked by fair
hands, and pretty ears applied to key-holes at vital moments of quite improbable disclosures
to more than improbable young men; when important despatches and secret codes began to be left
about in conspicuous places, in rooms conveniently vacated for notoriously suspect plotters;
when the Prime Minister began to bounce and prance and to lay booby traps, into which not his
enemies but his incomparable secretary promptly blundered--it was then that things went crooked.

