The tall man seemed to have disappeared. Not only did he never cross the threshold, but he
never so much as showed face at a window; or, at least, not so far as I could see; for I dared
not creep forward beyond a certain distance in the day, since the upper floor commanded the
bottoms of the links; and at night, when I could venture farther, the lower windows were barricaded
as if to stand a siege. Sometimes I thought the tall man must be confined to bed, for I remembered
the feebleness of his gait; and sometimes I thought he must have gone clear away, and that
Northmour and the young lady remained alone together in the pavilion. The idea, even then,
displeased me.

Whether or not this pair were man and wife, I had seen abundant reason to doubt the friendliness
of their relation. Although I could hear nothing of what they said, and rarely so much as glean
a decided expression on the face of either, there was a distance, almost a stiffness, in their
bearing which showed them to be either unfamiliar or at enmity. The girl walked faster when
she was with Northmour than when she was alone; and I conceived that any inclination between
a man and a woman would rather delay than accelerate the step. Moreover, she kept a good yard
free of him, and trailed her umbrella, as if it were a barrier, on the side between them. Northmour
kept sidling closer; and, as the girl retired from his advance, their course lay at a sort
of diagonal across the beach, and would have landed them in the surf had it been long enough
continued. But when this was imminent, the girl would unostentatiously change sides and put
Northmour between her and the sea. I watched these manoeuvres, for my part, with high enjoyment
and approval, and chuckled to myself at every move.

On the morning of the third day she walked alone for some time, and I perceived, to my great
concern, that she was more than once in tears. You will see that my heart was already interested
more than I supposed. She had a firm yet airy motion of the body, and carried her head with
unimaginable grace; every step was a thing to look at, and she seemed in my eyes to breathe
sweetness and distinction.

The day was so agreeable, being calm and sunshiny, with a tranquil sea, and yet with a healthful
piquancy and vigour in the air, that, contrary to custom, she was tempted forth a second time
to walk. On this occasion she was accompanied by Northmour, and they had been but a short while
on the beach, when I saw him take forcible possession of her hand. She struggled, and uttered
a cry that was almost a scream. I sprang to my feet, unmindful of my strange position; but,
ere I had taken a step, I saw Northmour bareheaded and bowing very low, as if to apologise;
and dropped again at once into my ambush. A few words were interchanged; and then, with another
bow, he left the beach to return to the pavilion. He passed not far from me, and I could see
him, flushed and lowering, and cutting savagely with his cane among the grass. It was not without
satisfaction that I recognised my own handiwork in a great cut under his right eye, and a considerable
discoloration round the socket.

For some time the girl remained where he had left her, looking out past the islet and over
the bright sea. Then with a start, as one who throws off preoccupation and puts energy again
upon its mettle, she broke into a rapid and decisive walk. She also was much incensed by what
had passed. She had forgotten where she was. And I beheld her walk straight into the borders
of the quicksand where it is more abrupt and dangerous. Two or three steps farther and her
life would have been in serious jeopardy, when I slid down the face of the sand-hill, which
is there precipitous, and, running half-way forward, called to her to stop.

