Before quitting the subject of the sonnet it would, however, be well to mention the changes
which were wrought in its structure by early poets desirous of emulating the Italians. Shakspere,
as already hinted, adhered to the simple form introduced by Surrey: his stanzas invariably
consist of three separate quatrains followed by a couplet. But Sir Philip Sidney, whose familiarity
with Italian literature was intimate, and who had resided long in Italy, perceived that without
a greater complexity and interweaving of rhymes the beauty of the poem was considerably impaired.
He therefore combined the rhymes of the two quatrains, as the Italians had done, leaving himself
free to follow the Italian fashion in the conclusion, or else to wind up after English usage
with a couplet. Spenser and Drummond follow the rule of Sidney; Drayton and Daniel, that of
Surrey and Shakspere. It was not until Milton that an English poet preserved the form of the
Italian sonnet in its strictness; but, after Milton, the greatest sonnet-writers--Wordsworth,
Keats, and Rossetti--have aimed at producing stanzas as regular as those of Petrarch.

The great age of our literature--the age of Elizabeth--was essentially one of Italian influence.
In Italy the Renaissance had reached its height: England, feeling the new life which had been
infused into arts and letters, turned instinctively to Italy, and adopted her canons of taste.
'Euphues' has a distinct connection with the Italian discourses of polite culture. Sidney's
'Arcadia' is a copy of what Boccaccio had attempted in his classical romances, and Sanazzaro
in his pastorals.[18] Spenser approached the subject of the 'Faery Queen' with his head full
of Ariosto and the romantic poets of Italy. His sonnets are Italian; his odes embody the Platonic
philosophy of the Italians.[19] The extent of Spenser's deference to the Italians in matters
of poetic art may be gathered from this passage in the dedication to Sir Walter Raleigh of
the 'Faery Queen:'

     I have followed all the antique poets historical: first
     Homer, who in the persons of Agamemnon and Ulysses hath
     ensampled a good governor and a virtuous man, the one in his
     Ilias, the other in his Odysseis; then Virgil, whose like
     intention was to do in the person of Æneas; after him
     Ariosto comprised them both in his Orlando; and lately Tasso
     dissevered them again, and formed both parts in two persons,
     namely, that part which they in Philosophy call Ethice, or
     virtues of a private man, coloured in his Rinaldo, the other
     named Politico in his Goffredo.

From this it is clear that, to the mind of Spenser, both Ariosto and Tasso were authorities
of hardly less gravity than Homer and Virgil. Raleigh, in the splendid sonnet with which he
responds to this dedication, enhances the fame of Spenser by affecting to believe that the
great Italian, Petrarch, will be jealous of him in the grave. To such an extent were the thoughts
of the English poets occupied with their Italian masters in the art of song.

It was at this time, again, that English literature was enriched by translations of Ariosto
and Tasso--the one from the pen of Sir John Harrington, the other from that of Fairfax. Both
were produced in the metre of the original--the octave stanza, which, however, did not at that
period take root in England. At the same period the works of many of the Italian novelists,
especially Bandello and Cinthio and Boccaccio, were translated into English; Painter's 'Palace
of Pleasure' being a treasure-house of Italian works of fiction. Thomas Hoby translated Castiglione's
'Courtier' in 1561. As a proof of the extent to which Italian books were read in England at
the end of the sixteenth century, we may take a stray sentence from a letter of Harvey, in
which he disparages the works of Robert Greene:--'Even Guicciardine's silver histories and
Ariosto's golden cantos grow out of request: and the Countess of Pembroke's "Arcadia" is not
green enough for queasy stomachs; but they must have seen Greene's "Arcadia," and I believe
most eagerly longed for Greene's "Faery Queen."'

Still more may be gathered on the same topic from the indignant protest uttered by Roger Ascham
in his 'Schoolmaster' (pp. 78-91, date 1570) against the prevalence of Italian customs, the
habit of Italian travel, and the reading of Italian books translated into English. Selections
of Italian stories rendered into English were extremely popular; and Greene's tales, which
had such vogue that Nash says of them, 'glad was that printer that might be so blest to pay
him dear for the very dregs of his wit,' were all modelled on the Italian. The education of
a young man of good family was not thought complete unless he had spent some time in Italy,
studied its literature, admired its arts, and caught at least some tincture of its manners.
Our rude ancestors brought back with them from these journeys many Southern vices, together
with the culture they had gone to seek. The contrast between the plain dealing of the North
and the refined Machiavellism of the South, between Protestant earnestness in religion and
Popish scepticism, between the homely virtues of England and the courtly libertinism of Venice
or Florence, blunted the moral sense, while it stimulated the intellectual activity of the
English travellers, and too often communicated a fatal shock to their principles. Inglese Italianato
è un diavolo incarnato passed into a proverb: we find it on the lips of Parker, of Howell,
of Sidney, of Greene, and of Ascham; while Italy itself was styled by severe moralists the
court of Circe. In James Howell's 'Instructions for forreine travell' we find this pregnant
sentence: 'And being now in Italy, that great limbique of working braines, he must be very
circumspect in his carriage, for she is able to turne a Saint into a devill, and deprave the
best natures, if one will abandon himselfe, and become a prey to dissolut courses and wantonesse.'
Italy, in truth, had already become corrupt, and the fruit of her contact with the nations
of the North was seen in the lives of such scholars as Robert Greene, who confessed that he
returned from his travels instructed 'in all the villanies under the sun.' Many of the scandals
of the Court of James might be ascribed to this aping of Southern manners.

Yet, together with the evil of depraved morality, the advantage of improved culture was imported
from Italy into England; and the constitution of the English genius was young and healthy enough
to purge off the mischief, while it assimilated what was beneficial. This is very manifest
in the history of our drama, which, taking it altogether, is at the same time the purest and
the most varied that exists in literature; while it may be affirmed without exaggeration that
one of the main impulses to free dramatic composition in England was communicated by the attraction
everything Italian possessed for the English fancy. It was in the drama that the English displayed
the richness and the splendour of the Renaissance, which had blazed so gorgeously and at times
so balefully below the Alps. The Italy of the Renaissance fascinated our dramatists with a
strange wild glamour--the contrast of external pageant and internal tragedy, the alternations
of radiance and gloom, the terrible examples of bloodshed, treason, and heroism emergent from
ghastly crimes. Our drama began with a translation of Ariosto's 'Suppositi' and ended with
Davenant's 'Just Italian.' In the very dawn of tragic composition Greene versified a portion
of the 'Orlando Furioso,' and Marlowe devoted one of his most brilliant studies to the villanies
of a Maltese Jew. Of Shakspere's plays five are incontestably Italian: several of the rest
are furnished with Italian names to suit the popular taste. Ben Jonson laid the scene of his
most subtle comedy of manners, 'Volpone,' in Venice, and sketched the first cast of 'Every
Man in his Humour' for Italian characters. Tourneur, Ford, and Webster were so dazzled by the
tragic lustre of the wickedness of Italy that their finest dramas, without exception, are minute
and carefully studied psychological analyses of great Italian tales of crime. The same, in
a less degree, is true of Middleton and Dekker. Massinger makes a story of the Sforza family
the subject of one of his best plays. Beaumont and Fletcher draw the subjects of comedies and
tragedies alike from the Italian novelists. Fletcher in his 'Faithful Shepherdess' transfers
the pastoral style of Tasso and Guarini to the North. So close is the connection between our
tragedy and Italian novels that Marston and Ford think fit to introduce passages of Italian
dialogue into the plays of 'Giovanni and Annabella' and 'Antonio and Mellida.' But the best
proof of the extent to which Italian life and literature had influenced our dramatists, may
be easily obtained by taking down Halliwell's 'Dictionary of Old Plays,' and noticing that
about every third drama has an Italian title. Meanwhile the poems composed by the chief dramatists--Shakspere's
'Venus and Adonis,' Marlowe's 'Hero and Leander,' Marston's 'Pygmalion,' and Beaumont's 'Hermaphrodite'--are
all of them conceived in the Italian style, by men who had either studied Southern literature,
or had submitted to its powerful æsthetic influences. The Masques, moreover, of Jonson, of
Lyly, of Fletcher, and of Chapman are exact reproductions upon the English court theatres of
such festival pageants as were presented to the Medici at Florence or to the Este family at
Ferrara.[20] Throughout our drama the influence of Italy, direct or indirect, either as supplying
our playwrights with subjects or as stimulating their imagination, may thus be traced. Yet
the Elizabethan drama is in the highest sense original. As a work of art pregnant with deepest
wisdom, and splendidly illustrative of the age which gave it birth, it far transcends anything
that Italy produced in the same department. Our poets have a more masculine judgment, more
fiery fancy, nobler sentiment, than the Italians of any age but that of Dante. What Italy gave,
was the impulse toward creation, not patterns to be imitated--the excitement of the imagination
by a spectacle of so much grandeur, not rules and precepts for production--the keen sense of
tragic beauty, not any tradition of accomplished art.

The Elizabethan period of our literature was, in fact, the period during which we derived most
from the Italian nation.

The study of the Italian language went hand in hand with the study of Greek and Latin, so that
the three together contributed to form the English taste. Between us and the ancient world
stood the genius of Italy as an interpreter. Nor was this connection broken until far on into
the reign of Charles II. What Milton owed to Italy is clear not only from his Italian sonnets,
but also from the frequent mention of Dante and Petrarch in his prose works, from his allusions
to Boiardo and Ariosto in the 'Paradise Lost,' and from the hints which he probably derived
from Pulci, Tasso and Andreini. It would, indeed, be easy throughout his works to trace a continuous
vein of Italian influence in detail. But, more than this, Milton's poetical taste in general
seems to have been formed and ripened by familiarity with the harmonies of the Italian language.
In his Tractate on Education addressed to Mr. Hartlib, he recommends that boys should be instructed
in the Italian pronunciation of vowel sounds, in order to give sonorousness and dignity to
elocution. This slight indication supplies us with a key to the method of melodious structure
employed by Milton in his blank verse. Those who have carefully studied the harmonies of the
'Paradise Lost,' know how all-important are the assonances of the vowel sounds of o and a in
its most musical passages. It is just this attention to the liquid and sonorous recurrences
of open vowels that we should expect from a poet who proposed to assimilate his diction to
that of the Italians.

After the age of Milton the connection between Italy and England is interrupted. In the seventeenth
century Italy herself had sunk into comparative stupor, and her literature was trivial. France
not only swayed the political destinies of Europe, but also took the lead in intellectual culture.
Consequently, our poets turned from Italy to France, and the French spirit pervaded English
literature throughout the period of the Restoration and the reigns of William and Queen Anne.
Yet during this prolonged reaction against the earlier movement of English literature, as manifested
in Elizabethanism, the influence of Italy was not wholly extinct. Dryden's 'Tales from Boccaccio'
are no insignificant contribution to our poetry, and his 'Palamon and Arcite,' through Chaucer,
returns to the same source. But when, at the beginning of this century, the Elizabethan tradition
was revived, then the Italian influence reappeared more vigorous than ever. The metre of 'Don
Juan,' first practised by Frere and then adopted by Lord Byron, is Pulci's octave stanza; the
manner is that of Berni, Folengo, and the Abbé Casti, fused and heightened by the brilliance
of Byron's genius into a new form. The subject of Shelley's strongest work of art is Beatrice
Cenci. Rogers's poem is styled 'Italy.' Byron's dramas are chiefly Italian. Leigh Hunt repeats
the tale of Francesca da Rimini. Keats versifies Boccaccio's 'Isabella.' Passing to contemporary
poets, Rossetti has acclimatised in English the metres and the manner of the earliest Italian
lyrists. Swinburne dedicates his noblest song to the spirit of liberty in Italy. Even George
Eliot and Tennyson have each of them turned stories of Boccaccio into verse. The best of Mrs.
Browning's poems, 'Casa Guidi Windows' and 'Aurora Leigh,' are steeped in Italian thought and
Italian imagery. Browning's longest poem is a tale of Italian crime; his finest studies in
the 'Men and Women' are portraits of Italian character of the Renaissance period. But there
is more than any mere enumeration of poets and their work can set forth, in the connection
between Italy and England. That connection, so far as the poetical imagination is concerned,
is vital. As poets in the truest sense of the word, we English live and breathe through sympathy
with the Italians. The magnetic touch which is required to inflame the imagination of the North,
is derived from Italy. The nightingales of English song who make our oak and beech copses resonant
in spring with purest melody, are migratory birds, who have charged their souls in the South
with the spirit of beauty, and who return to warble native wood-notes in a tongue which is
their own.

What has hitherto been said about the debt of the English poets to Italy, may seem to imply
that our literature can be regarded as to some extent a parasite on that of the Italians. Against
such a conclusion no protest too energetic could be uttered. What we have derived directly
from the Italian poets are, first, some metres--especially the sonnet and the octave stanza,
though the latter has never taken firm root in England. 'Terza rima,' attempted by Shelley,
Byron, Morris, and Mrs. Browning, has not yet become acclimatised. Blank verse, although originally
remodelled by Surrey upon the versi sciolti of the Italians, has departed widely from Italian
precedent, first by its decasyllabic structure, whereas Italian verse consists of hendecasyllables;
and, secondly, by its greater force, plasticity, and freedom. The Spenserian stanza, again,
is a new and original metre peculiar to our literature; though it is possible that but for
the complex structures of Italian lyric verse, it might not have been fashioned for the 'Faery
Queen.' Lastly, the so-called heroic couplet is native to England; at any rate, it is in no
way related to Italian metre. Therefore the only true Italian exotic adopted without modification
into our literature is the sonnet.

In the next place, we owe to the Italians the subject-matter of many of our most famous dramas
and our most delightful tales in verse. But the English treatment of these histories and fables
has been uniformly independent and original. Comparing Shakspere's 'Romeo and Juliet' with
Bandello's tale, Webster's 'Duchess of Malfy' with the version given from the Italian in Painter's
'Palace of Pleasure,' and Chaucer's Knight's Tale with the 'Teseide' of Boccaccio, we perceive
at once that the English poets have used their Italian models merely as outlines to be filled
in with freedom, as the canvas to be embroidered with a tapestry of vivid groups. Nothing is
more manifest than the superiority of the English genius over the Italian in all dramatic qualities
of intense passion, profound analysis, and living portrayal of character in action. The mere
rough detail of Shakspere's 'Othello' is to be found in Cinthio's Collection of Novelle; but
let an unprejudiced reader peruse the original, and he will be no more deeply affected by it
than by any touching story of treachery, jealousy, and hapless innocence. The wily subtleties
of Iago, the soldierly frankness of Cassio, the turbulent and volcanic passions of Othello,
the charm of Desdemona, and the whole tissue of vivid incidents which make 'Othello' one of
the most tremendous extant tragedies of characters in combat, are Shakspere's, and only Shakspere's.
This instance, indeed, enables us exactly to indicate what the English owed to Italy and what
was essentially their own. From that Southern land of Circe about which they dreamed, and which
now and then they visited, came to their imaginations a spirit-stirring breath of inspiration.
It was to them the country of marvels, of mysterious crimes, of luxurious gardens and splendid
skies, where love was more passionate and life more picturesque, and hate more bloody and treachery
more black, than in our Northern climes. Italy was a spacious grove of wizardry, which mighty
poets, on the quest of fanciful adventure, trod with fascinated senses and quickened pulses.
But the strong brain which converted what they heard and read and saw of that charmed land
into the stuff of golden romance or sable tragedy, was their own.

English literature has been defined a literature of genius.

Our greatest work in art has been achieved not so much by inspiration, subordinate to sentiments
of exquisite good taste or guided by observance of classical models, as by audacious sallies
of pure inventive power. This is true as a judgment of that constellation which we call our
drama, of the meteor Byron, of Milton and Dryden, who are the Jupiter and Mars of our poetic
system, and of the stars which stud our literary firmament under the names of Shelley, Keats,
Wordsworth, Chatterton, Scott, Coleridge, Clough, Blake, Browning, Swinburne, Tennyson. There
are only a very few of the English poets, Pope and Gray, for example, in whom the free instincts
of genius are kept systematically in check by the laws of the reflective understanding. Now
Italian literature is in this respect all unlike our own. It began, indeed, with Dante, as
a literature pre-eminently of genius; but the spirit of scholarship assumed the sway as early
as the days of Petrarch and Boccaccio, and after them Italian has been consistently a literature
of taste. By this I mean that even the greatest Italian poets have sought to render their style
correct, have endeavoured to subordinate their inspiration to what they considered the rules
of sound criticism, and have paid serious attention to their manner as independent of the matter
they wished to express. The passion for antiquity, so early developed in Italy, delivered the
later Italian poets bound hand and foot into the hands of Horace. Poliziano was content to
reproduce the classic authors in a mosaic work of exquisite translations. Tasso was essentially
a man of talent, producing work of chastened beauty by diligent attention to the rule and method
of his art. Even Ariosto submitted the liberty of his swift spirit to canons of prescribed
elegance. While our English poets have conceived and executed without regard for the opinion
of the learned and without obedience to the usages of language--Shakspere, for example, producing
tragedies which set Aristotle at defiance, and Milton engrafting Latinisms on the native idiom--the
Italian poets thought and wrote with the fear of Academies before their eyes, and studied before
all things to maintain the purity of the Tuscan tongue. The consequence is that the Italian
and English literatures are eminent for very different excellences. All that is forcible in
the dramatic presentation of life and character and action, all that is audacious in imagination
and capricious in fancy, whatever strength style can gain from the sallies of original and
untrammelled eloquence, whatever beauty is derived from spontaneity and native grace, belong
in abundant richness to the English. On the other hand, the Italian poets present us with masterpieces
of correct and studied diction, with carefully elaborated machinery, and with a style maintained
at a uniform level of dignified correctness. The weakness of the English proceeds from inequality
and extravagance; it is the weakness of self-confident vigour, intolerant of rule, rejoicing
in its own exuberant resources. The weakness of the Italian is due to timidity and moderation;
it is the weakness that springs not so much from a lack of native strength as from the over-anxious
expenditure of strength upon the attainment of finish, polish, and correctness. Hence the two
nations have everything to learn from one another. Modern Italian poets may seek by contact
with Shakspere and Milton to gain a freedom from the trammels imposed upon them by the slavish
followers of Petrarch; while the attentive perusal of Tasso should be recommended to all English
people who have no ready access to the masterpieces of Greek and Latin literature.

Another point of view may be gained by noticing the pre-dominant tone of the two literatures.
Whenever English poetry is really great, it approximates to the tragic and the stately; whereas
the Italians are peculiarly felicitous in the smooth and pleasant style, which combines pathos
with amusement, and which does not trespass beyond the region of beauty into the domain of
sublimity or terror. Italian poetry is analogous to Italian painting and Italian music: it
bathes the soul in a plenitude of charms, investing even the most solemn subjects with loveliness.
Rembrandt and Albert Dürer depict the tragedies of the Sacred History with a serious and awful
reality: Italian painters, with a few rare but illustrious exceptions, shrink from approaching
them from any point of view but that of harmonious melancholy. Even so the English poets stir
the soul to its very depths by their profound and earnest delineations of the stern and bitter
truths of the world: Italian poets environ all things with the golden haze of an artistic harmony;
so that the soul is agitated by no pain at strife with the persuasions of pure beauty.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR SONGS OF TUSCANY

It is a noticeable fact about the popular songs of Tuscany that they are almost exclusively
devoted to love. The Italians in general have no ballad literature resembling that of our Border
or that of Spain. The tragic histories of their noble families, the great deeds of their national
heroes, and the sufferings of their country during centuries of warfare, have left but few
traces in their rustic poetry. It is true that some districts are less utterly barren than
others in these records of the past. The Sicilian people's poetry, for example, preserves a
memory of the famous Vespers; and one or two terrible stories of domestic tragedy, like the
tale of Rosmunda in 'La Donna Lombarda,' the romance of the Baronessa di Carini, and the so-called
Caso di Sciacca, may still be heard upon the lips of the people.

This defect of anything corresponding to our ballads of 'Chevy Chase,' or 'Sir Patrick Spens,'
or 'Gil Morrice,' in a poetry which is still so vital with the life of past centuries, is all
the more remarkable because Italian history is distinguished above that of other nations by
tragic episodes peculiarly suited to poetic treatment. Many of these received commemoration
in the fourteenth century from Dante; others were embodied in the novelle of Boccaccio and
Cinthio and Bandello, whence they passed into the dramas of Shakspere, Webster, Ford, and their
contemporaries. But scarcely an echo can be traced through all the volumes of the recently
collected popular songs. We must seek for an explanation of this fact partly in the conditions
of Italian life, and partly in the nature of the Italian imagination. Nowhere in Italy do we
observe that intimate connection between the people at large and the great nobles which generates
the sympathy of clanship. Politics in most parts of the peninsula fell at a very early period
into the hands either of irresponsible princes, who ruled like despots, or else of burghers,
who administered the state within the walls of their Palazzo Pubblico. The people remained
passive spectators of contemporary history. The loyalty of subjects to their sovereign which
animates the Spanish ballads, the loyalty of retainers to their chief which gives life to the
tragic ballads of the Border, did not exist in Italy. Country-folk felt no interest in the
doings of Visconti or Medici or Malatesti sufficient to arouse the enthusiasm of local bards
or to call forth the celebration of their princely tragedies in verse. Amid the miseries of
foreign wars and home oppression, it seemed better to demand from verse and song some mitigation
of the woes of life, some expression of personal emotion, than to record the disasters which
to us at a distance appear poetic in their grandeur.

These conditions of popular life, although unfavourable to the production of ballad poetry,
would not, however, have been sufficient by themselves to check its growth, if the Italians
had been strongly impelled to literature of this type by their nature. The real reason why
their Volkslieder are amorous and personal is to be found in the quality of their imagination.
The Italian genius is not creatively imaginative in the highest sense. The Italians have never,
either in the ancient or the modern age, produced a great drama or a national epic, the 'Æneid'
and the 'Divine Comedy' being obviously of different species from the 'Iliad' or the 'Nibelungen
Lied.' Modern Italians, again, are distinguished from the French, the Germans, and the English
in being the conscious inheritors of an older, august, and strictly classical civilisation.
The great memories of Rome weigh down their faculties of invention. It would also seem as though
they shrank in their poetry from the representation of what is tragic and spirit-stirring.
They incline to what is cheerful, brilliant, or pathetic. The dramatic element in human life,
external to the personality of the poet, which exercised so strong a fascination over our ballad-bards
and playwrights, has but little attraction for the Italian. When he sings, he seeks to express
his own individual emotions--his love, his joy, his jealousy, his anger, his despair. The language
which he uses is at the same time direct in its intensity, and hyperbolical in its display
of fancy; but it lacks those imaginative touches which exalt the poetry of personal passion
into a sublimer region. Again, the Italians are deficient in a sense of the supernatural. The
wraiths that cannot rest because their love is still unsatisfied, the voices which cry by night
over field and fell, the water-spirits and forest fairies, the second-sight of coming woes,
the presentiment of death, the warnings and the charms and spells, which fill the popular poetry
of all Northern nations, are absent in Italian songs. In the whole of Tigri's collection I
only remember one mention of a ghost. It is not that the Italians are deficient in superstitions
of all kinds. Every one has heard of their belief in the evil eye, for instance. But they do
not connect this kind of fetichism with their poetry; and even their greatest poets, with the
exception of Dante, have shown no capacity or no inclination for enhancing the imaginative
effect of their creations by an appeal to the instinct of mysterious awe.

The truth is that the Italians as a race are distinguished as much by a firm grasp upon the
practical realities of existence as by powerful emotions. They have but little of that dreamy
Schwärmerei with which the people of the North are largely gifted. The true sphere of their
genius is painting. What appeals to the imagination through the eyes, they have expressed far
better than any other modern nation. But their poetry, like their music, is deficient in tragic
sublimity and in the higher qualities of imaginative creation.

It may seem paradoxical to say this of the nation which produced Dante. But we must remember
not to judge races by single and exceptional men of genius. Petrarch, the Troubadour of exquisite
emotions, Boccaccio, who touches all the keys of life so lightly, Ariosto, with the smile of
everlasting April on his lips, and Tasso, excellent alone when he confines himself to pathos
or the picturesque, are no exceptions to what I have just said. Yet these poets pursued their
art with conscious purpose. The tragic splendour of Greece, the majesty of Rome, were not unknown
to them. Far more is it true that popular poetry in Italy, proceeding from the hearts of uncultivated
peasants and expressing the national character in its simplicity, displays none of the stuff
from which the greatest works of art in verse, epics and dramas, can be wrought. But within
its own sphere of personal emotion, this popular poetry is exquisitely melodious, inexhaustibly
rich, unique in modern literature for the direct expression which it has given to every shade
of passion.

Signor Tigri's collection,[22] to which I shall confine my attention in this paper, consists
of eleven hundred and eighty-five rispetti, with the addition of four hundred and sixty-one
stornelli. Rispetto, it may be said in passing, is the name commonly given throughout Italy
to short poems, varying from six to twelve lines, constructed on the principle of the octave
stanza. That is to say, the first part of the rispetto consists of four or six lines with alternate
rhymes, while one or more couplets, called the ripresa, complete the poem.[23] The stornello,
or ritournelle, never exceeds three lines, and owes its name to the return which it makes at
the end of the last line to the rhyme given by the emphatic word of the first. Browning, in
his poem of 'Fra Lippo Lippi,' has accustomed English ears to one common species of the stornello,[24]
which sets out with the name of a flower, and rhymes with it, as thus:

    Fior di narciso.
  Prigionero d'amore mi son reso,
  Nel rimirare il tuo leggiadro viso.

The divisions of those two sorts of songs, to which Tigri gives names like The Beauty of Women,
The Beauty of Men, Falling in Love, Serenades, Happy Love, Unhappy Love, Parting, Absence,
Letters, Return to Home, Anger and Jealousy, Promises, Entreaties and Reproaches, Indifference,
Treachery and Abandonment, prove with what fulness the various phases of the tender passion
are treated. Through the whole fifteen hundred the one theme of Love is never relinquished.
Only two persons, 'I' and 'thou,' appear upon the scene; yet so fresh and so various are the
moods of feeling, that one can read them from first to last without too much satiety.

To seek for the authors of these ditties would be useless. Some of them may be as old as the
fourteenth century; others may have been made yesterday. Some are the native product of the
Tuscan mountain villages, especially of the regions round Pistoja and Siena, where on the spurs
of the Apennines the purest Italian is vernacular. Some, again, are importations from other
provinces, especially from Sicily and Naples, caught up by the peasants of Tuscany and adapted
to their taste and style; for nothing travels faster than a Volkslied. Born some morning in
a noisy street of Naples, or on the solitary slopes of Radicofani, before the week is out,
a hundred voices are repeating it. Waggoners and pedlars carry it across the hills to distant
towns. It floats with the fishermen from bay to bay, and marches with the conscript to his
barrack in a far-off province. Who was the first to give it shape and form? No one asks, and
no one cares. A student well acquainted with the habits of the people in these matters says,
'If they knew the author of a ditty, they would not learn it, far less if they discovered that
it was a scholar's.' If the cadence takes their ear, they consecrate the song at once by placing
it upon the honoured list of 'ancient lays.' Passing from lip to lip and from district to district,
it receives additions and alterations, and becomes the property of a score of provinces. Meanwhile
the poet from whose soul it blossomed that first morning like a flower, remains contented with
obscurity. The wind has carried from his lips the thistledown of song, and sown it on a hundred
hills and meadows, far and wide. After such wise is the birth of all truly popular compositions.
Who knows, for instance, the veritable author of many of those mighty German chorals which
sprang into being at the period of the Reformation? The first inspiration was given, probably,
to a single mind; but the melody, as it has reached us, is the product of a thousand. This
accounts for the variations which in different dialects and districts the same song presents.
Meanwhile, it is sometimes possible to trace the authorship of a ballad with marked local character
to an improvisatore famous in his village, or to one of those professional rhymesters whom
the country-folk employ in the composition of love-letters to their sweethearts at a distance.[25]
Tommaseo, in the preface to his 'Canti Popolari,' mentions in particular a Beatrice di Pian
degli Ontani, whose poetry was famous through the mountains of Pistoja; and Tigri records by
name a little girl called Cherubina, who made rispetti by the dozen as she watched her sheep
upon the hills. One of the songs in his collection (p. 181) contains a direct reference to
the village letter-writer:--

  Salutatemi, bella, lo scrivano;
  Non lo conosco e non so chi si sia.
  A me mi pare un poeta sovrano,
  Tanto gli è sperto nella poesia.[26]

While I am writing thus about the production and dissemination of these love-songs, I cannot
help remembering three days and nights which I once spent at sea between Genoa and Palermo,
in the company of some conscripts who were going to join their regiment in Sicily. They were
lads from the Milanese and Liguria, and they spent a great portion of their time in composing
and singing poetry. One of them had a fine baritone voice; and when the sun had set, his comrades
gathered round him and begged him to sing to them 'Con quella patetica tua voce.' Then followed
hours of singing, the low monotonous melodies of his ditties harmonising wonderfully with the
tranquillity of night, so clear and calm that the sky and all its stars were mirrored on the
sea, through which we moved as if in a dream. Sometimes the songs provoked conversation, which,
as is usual in Italy, turned mostly upon 'le bellezze delle donne.' I remember that once an
animated discussion about the relative merits of blondes and brunettes nearly ended in a quarrel,
when the youngest of the whole band, a boy of about seventeen, put a stop to the dispute by
theatrically raising his eyes and arms to heaven and crying, 'Tu sei innamorato d' una grande
Diana cacciatrice nera, ed io d' una bella Venere bionda.' Though they were but village lads,
they supported their several opinions with arguments not unworthy of Firenzuola, and showed
the greatest delicacy of feeling in the treatment of a subject which could scarcely have failed
to reveal any latent coarseness.

The purity of all the Italian love-songs collected by Tigri is very remarkable.[27] Although
the passion expressed in them is Oriental in its vehemence, not a word falls which could offend
a virgin's ear. The one desire of lovers is lifelong union in marriage. The damo--for so a
sweetheart is termed in Tuscany--trembles until he has gained the approval of his future mother-in-law,
and forbids the girl he is courting to leave her house to talk to him at night:--

  Dice che tu tì affacci alia finestra;
  Ma non tì dice che tu vada fuora,
  Perchè, la notte, è cosa disonesta.

All the language of his love is respectful. Signore, or master of my soul, madonna, anima mia,
dolce mio ben, nobil persona, are the terms of adoration with which he approaches his mistress.
The elevation of feeling and perfect breeding which Manzoni has so well delineated in the loves
of Renzo and Lucia are traditional among Italian country-folk. They are conscious that true
gentleness is no matter of birth or fortune:--

  E tu non mi lasciar per poverezza,
  Chè povertà non guasta gentilezza.[28]

This in itself constitutes an important element of culture, and explains to some extent the
high romantic qualities of their impassioned poetry. The beauty of their land reveals still
more. 'O fortunatos nimium sua si bona norint!' Virgil's exclamation is as true now as it was
when he sang the labours of Italian country-folk some nineteen centuries ago. To a traveller
from the north there is a pathos even in the contrast between the country in which these children
of a happier climate toil, and those bleak, winter-beaten fields where our own peasants pass
their lives. The cold nights and warm days of Tuscan springtime are like a Swiss summer. They
make rich pasture and a hardy race of men. Tracts of corn and oats and rye alternate with patches
of flax in full flower, with meadows yellow with buttercups or pink with ragged robin; the
young vines, running from bough to bough of elm and mulberry, are just coming into leaf. The
poplars are fresh with bright green foliage. On the verge of this blooming plain stand ancient
cities ringed with hills, some rising to snowy Apennines, some covered with white convents
and sparkling with villas. Cypresses shoot, black and spirelike, amid grey clouds of olive-boughs
upon the slopes; and above, where vegetation borders on the barren rock, are masses of ilex
and arbutus interspersed with chestnut-trees not yet in leaf. Men and women are everywhere
at work, ploughing with great white oxen, or tilling the soil with spades six feet in length--Sabellian
ligones. The songs of nightingales among acacia-trees, and the sharp scream of swallows wheeling
in air, mingle with the monotonous chant that always rises from the country-people at their
toil. Here and there on points of vantage, where the hill-slopes sink into the plain, cluster
white villages with flower-like campanili. It is there that the veglia, or evening rendezvous
of lovers, the serenades and balls and feste, of which one hears so much in the popular minstrelsy,
take place. Of course it would not be difficult to paint the darker shades of this picture.
Autumn comes, when the contadini of Lucca and Siena and Pistoja go forth to work in the unwholesome
marshes of the Maremma, or of Corsica and Sardinia. Dismal superstitions and hereditary hatreds
cast their blight over a life externally so fair. The bad government of centuries has perverted
in many ways the instincts of a people naturally mild and cheerful and peace-loving. But as
far as nature can make men happy, these husbandmen are surely to be reckoned fortunate, and
in their songs we find little to remind us of what is otherwise than sunny in their lot.

A translator of these Volkslieder has to contend with difficulties of no ordinary kind. The
freshness of their phrases, the spontaneity of their sentiments, and the melody of their unstudied
cadences, are inimitable. So again is the peculiar effect of their frequent transitions from
the most fanciful imagery to the language of prose. No mere student can hope to rival, far
less to reproduce, in a foreign tongue, the charm of verse which sprang untaught from the hearts
of simple folk, which lives unwritten on the lips of lovers, and which should never be dissociated
from singing.[29] There are, besides, peculiarities in the very structure of the popular rispetto.
The constant repetition of the same phrase with slight variations, especially in the closing
lines of the ripresa of the Tuscan rispetto, gives an antique force and flavour to these ditties,
like that which we appreciate in our own ballads, but which may easily, in the translation,
degenerate into weakness and insipidity. The Tuscan rhymester, again, allows himself the utmost
licence. It is usual to find mere assonances like bene and piacere, oro and volo, ala and alata,
in the place of rhymes; while such remote resemblances of sound as colli and poggi, lascia
and piazza, are far from uncommon. To match these rhymes by joining 'home' and 'alone,' 'time'
and 'shine,' &c, would of course be a matter of no difficulty; but it has seemed to me on the
whole best to preserve, with some exceptions, such accuracy as the English ear requires. I
fear, however, that, after all, these wild-flowers of song, transplanted to another climate
and placed in a hothouse, will appear but pale and hectic by the side of their robuster brethren
of the Tuscan hills.

In the following serenade many of the peculiarities which I have just noticed occur. I have
also adhered to the irregularity of rhyme which may be usually observed about the middle of
the poem (p. 103):--

  Sleeping or waking, thou sweet face,
  Lift up thy fair and tender brow:
  List to thy love in this still place;
  He calls thee to thy window now:
  But bids thee not the house to quit,
  Since in the night this were not meet.
  Come to thy window, stay within;
  I stand without, and sing and sing:
  Come to thy window, stay at home;
  I stand without, and make my moan.

Here is a serenade of a more impassioned character (p. 99):--

  I come to visit thee, my beauteous queen,
  Thee and the house where thou art harboured:
  All the long way upon my knees, my queen,
  I kiss the earth where'er thy footsteps tread.
  I kiss the earth, and gaze upon the wall,
  Whereby thou goest, maid imperial!
  I kiss the earth, and gaze upon the house,
  Whereby thou farest, queen most beauteous!

In the next the lover, who has passed the whole night beneath his sweetheart's window, takes
leave at the break of day. The feeling of the half-hour before dawn, when the sound of bells
rises to meet the growing light, and both form a prelude to the glare and noise of day, is
expressed with much unconscious poetry (p. 105):--

  I see the dawn e'en now begin to peer:
  Therefore I take my leave, and cease to sing,
  See how the windows open far and near,
  And hear the bells of morning, how they ring!
  Through heaven and earth the sounds of ringing swell;
  Therefore, bright jasmine flower, sweet maid, farewell!
  Through heaven and Rome the sound of ringing goes;
  Farewell, bright jasmine flower, sweet maiden rose!
The next is more quaint (p. 99):--

  I come by night, I come, my soul aflame;
  I come in this fair hour of your sweet sleep;
  And should I wake you up, it were a shame.
  I cannot sleep, and lo! I break your sleep.
  To wake you were a shame from your deep rest;
  Love never sleeps, nor they whom Love hath blest.

A very great many rispetti are simple panegyrics of the beloved, to find similitude for whose
beauty heaven and earth are ransacked. The compliment of the first line in the following song
is perfect (p. 23):--

  Beauty was born with you, fair maid:
  The sun and moon inclined to you;
  On you the snow her whiteness laid
  The rose her rich and radiant hue:
  Saint Magdalen her hair unbound,
  And Cupid taught you how to wound--
  How to wound hearts Dan Cupid taught:
  Your beauty drives me love-distraught.

The lady in the next was December's child (p. 25):--

  O beauty, born in winter's night,
  Born in the month of spotless snow:
  Your face is like a rose so bright;
  Your mother may be proud of you!
  She may be proud, lady of love,
  Such sunlight shines her house above:
  She may be proud, lady of heaven,
  Such sunlight to her home is given.

The sea wind is the source of beauty to another (p. 16):--

  Nay, marvel not you are so fair;
  For you beside the sea were born:
  The sea-waves keep you fresh and fair,
  Like roses on their leafy thorn.
  If roses grow on the rose-bush,
  Your roses through midwinter blush;
  If roses bloom on the rose-bed,
  Your face can show both white and red.

The eyes of a fourth are compared, after quite a new and original fashion, to stars (p. 210):--

  The moon hath risen her plaint to lay
  Before the face of Love Divine.
  Saying in heaven she will not stay,
  Since you have stolen what made her shine:
  Aloud she wails with sorrow wan,--
  She told her stars and two are gone:
  They are not there; you have them now;
  They are the eyes in your bright brow.

Nor are girls less ready to praise their lovers, but that they do not dwell so much on physical
perfection. Here is a pleasant greeting (p. 124):--

  O welcome, welcome, lily white,
  Thou fairest youth of all the valley!
  When I'm with you, my soul is light;
  I chase away dull melancholy.
  I chase all sadness from my heart:
  Then welcome, dearest that thou art!
  I chase all sadness from my side:
  Then welcome, O my love, my pride!
  I chase all sadness far away:
  Then welcome, welcome, love, to-day!

The image of a lily is very prettily treated in the next (p 79):--

  I planted a lily yestreen at my window;
  I set it yestreen, and to-day it sprang up:
  When I opened the latch and leaned out of my window,
  It shadowed my face with its beautiful cup.
  O lily, my lily, how tall you are grown!
  Remember how dearly I loved you, my own.
  O lily, my lily, you'll grow to the sky!
  Remember I love you for ever and aye.

The same thought of love growing like a flower receives another turn (p. 69):--

  On yonder hill I saw a flower;
  And, could it thence be hither borne,
  I'd plant it here within my bower,
  And water it both eve and morn.
  Small water wants the stem so straight;
  'Tis a love-lily stout as fate.
  Small water wants the root so strong:
  'Tis a love-lily lasting long.
  Small water wants the flower so sheen:
  'Tis a love-lily ever green.

Envious tongues have told a girl that her complexion is not good. She replies, with imagery
like that of Virgil's 'Alba ligustra cadunt, vaccinia nigra leguntur' (p. 31):--

  Think it no grief that I am brown,
  For all brunettes are born to reign:
  White is the snow, yet trodden down;
  Black pepper kings need not disdain:
  White snow lies mounded on the vales
  Black pepper's weighed in brazen scales.

Another song runs on the same subject (p. 38):--

  The whole world tells me that I'm brown,
  The brown earth gives us goodly corn:
  The clove-pink too, however brown,
  Yet proudly in the hand 'tis borne.
  They say my love is black, but he
  Shines like an angel-form to me:
  They say my love is dark as night;
  To me he seems a shape of light.

The freshness of the following spring song recalls the ballads of the Val de Vire in Normandy
(p. 85):--

  It was the morning of the first of May,
  Into the close I went to pluck a flower;
  And there I found a bird of woodland gay,
  Who whiled with songs of love the silent hour.
  O bird, who fliest from fair Florence, how
  Dear love begins, I prithee teach me now!--
  Love it begins with music and with song,
  And ends with sorrow and with sighs ere long.

Love at first sight is described (p. 79):--

  The very moment that we met,
  That moment love began to beat:
  One glance of love we gave, and swore
  Never to part for evermore;
  We swore together, sighing deep,
  Never to part till Death's long sleep.

Here too is a memory of the first days of love (p. 79):--

  If I remember, it was May
  When love began between us two:
  The roses in the close were gay,
  The cherries blackened on the bough.
  O cherries black and pears so green!
  Of maidens fair you are the queen.
  Fruit of black cherry and sweet pear!
  Of sweethearts you're the queen, I swear.

The troth is plighted with such promises as these (p. 230):--

  Or ere I leave you, love divine,
  Dead tongues shall stir and utter speech,
  And running rivers flow with wine,
  And fishes swim upon the beach;
  Or ere I leave or shun you, these
  Lemons shall grow on orange-trees.

The girl confesses her love after this fashion (p. 86):--

  Passing across the billowy sea,
  I let, alas, my poor heart fall;
  I bade the sailors bring it me;
  They said they had not seen it fall.
  I asked the sailors, one and two;
  They said that I had given it you.
  I asked the sailors, two and three;
  They said that I had given it thee.
It is not uncommon to speak of love as a sea. Here is a curious play
upon this image (p. 227):--

  Ho, Cupid! Sailor Cupid, ho!
  Lend me awhile that bark of thine;
  For on the billows I will go,
  To find my love who once was mine:
  And if I find her, she shall wear
  A chain around her neck so fair,
  Around her neck a glittering bond,
  Four stars, a lily, a diamond.

It is also possible that the same thought may occur in the second line of the next ditty (p.
120):--

  Beneath the earth I'll make a way
  To pass the sea and come to you.
  People will think I'm gone away;
  But, dear, I shall be seeing you.
  People will say that I am dead;
  But we'll pluck roses white and red:
  People will think I'm lost for aye;
  But we'll pluck roses, you and I.

All the little daily incidents are beautified by love. Here is a lover who thanks the mason
for making his window so close upon the road that he can see his sweetheart as she passes (p.
118):--

