The French Canadians, who occupied his vacant acres, have shown both a marvellous tenacity
for their own customs and also a fecundity that has enabled people, numbering 60,000 at the
time of the British conquest, to multiply now to some 2,500,000, scattered over the United
States and Canada. To govern them has never been an easy problem. Nairne says that the French
officer, Bougainville, who had known the Canadians in many campaigns, called them at Murray's
table a brave and submissive people; he thought they needed the strong hand of authority and
added that he was sure the British method of government would soon spoil them. Under the French
régime they had had no gleam of political liberty. For twenty years before the conquest France
had exacted from them the fullest possible measure of military service. The British ended this
and brought liberty. Its growth is sometimes so rapid as to be noxious, and, no doubt, some
of those who came to Nairne's domain gave him much trouble. "No people," Nairne said of them,
"stand more in awe of punishment when convinced that there is power to inflict it, as none
are so easily spoiled as to be mutinous by indulgences." Some of them showed striking intelligence:
in 1784 we find Nairne recommending for appointment as Notary one Malteste (no doubt the well-known
name Maltais is a later form) as a "remarkable honest, well-behaved countryman with more education
than is commonly to be found with one in his station." The dwellers at Malbaie were for the
most part a quiet people entirely untouched by the movements of the outside world. "Nothing
here," wrote Nairne in 1798, "is considered of importance but producing food to satisfy craving
Stomachs, which the people of this cold and healthy country remarkably possess, and to feed
numbers of children.... They have no other ambition or consideration whatever but simply to
procure food and raiment for themselves and their numerous families."

They had a very clear idea of their rights. Nairne's grant conferred upon him those of fishing
and hunting. But the inhabitants declared that when land was once granted, the seigneur lost
all control over the adjoining waters. Nairne wished, for instance, to prohibit the spearing
of salmon at night by the Canadians, with the aid of torches or lanterns. But they had never
been hampered by such restrictions and, when Nairne tried to check them, they said that they
would not be hindered. It was in vain that he said "I had rather have no power at all and no
seigneurie at all [than] not to be able to keep up the rights of it." When, in 1797, he ordered
one Joseph Villeneuve to cease the "flambeau" fishing at night, the fellow "roared and bellowed"
and set him at defiance; no less than twenty companions joined him in the fishing. They would
acknowledge no law nor restraint and seem to have had force majeure on their side. It was not
until long after that the legislature at Quebec passed strict laws regulating the modes of fishing.

Whatever the limitations on the seigneur's authority he had the undoubted right of control
over fishing in rivers and lakes until the adjacent lands were conceded to occupiers. It was
important, therefore, not to grant lands which carried with them the best fishing and Nairne's
ardent friend Gilchrist kept exhorting him from Scotland on this point. "There is no place
... I would so willingly and happily pass life in," he wrote, in 1775, "as in your Neighbourhood
and often have I been seized with the memory of your easy and uncontrolled way of rising, lying,
dancing, drinking, &c., at your habitation.... One hope ... I wish to be well founded and that
is that your Stewart, Factor or Attorney, has not conceded any lands with the River in front
from the Rapides du Vieux Moulin. If otherwise, you have lost more than the profits [which]
all above Brassar's will yield in our lifetime. The fishing in that part of the River is alone
worth crossing the Atlantic."

Over trade Nairne and Fraser tried to exercise some real control. Their grants gave them no
right to trade with the Indians and in reality no authority over trade. But they were guardians
of the law and took steps to check traders from violating it. One Brassard, who lived up the
Murray River, seems to have been a frequent offender. It was easy to debauch the Indians with
drink and then to get their furs for very little and the seigneurs needed always to be alert.
In 1778 we find Malcolm Fraser making with one Hugh Blackburn a bargain which outlines what
the seigneurs tried to do in regard to trade. Blackburn binds himself in the sum of £200 to
obey certain restrictions: he will not attempt to debauch the Indians belonging to the King's
Posts; in no circumstances will he sell them liquor; nor will he sell liquor on credit to anyone.
He will obey the lawful orders of Nairne and Fraser relative to the carrying on of his trade;
he will pay his debts, and will make others pay what they owe him, refusing them credit if
accounts are not paid within six months. In consideration of these pledges by Blackburn Fraser
guarantees his credit with the Quebec merchants. The difficulty in regard to trade with the
Indians settled itself by the tragic remedy of their gradual extinction. In 1800 Nairne says
that the Micmacs, once a great nuisance, are now rarely seen.

Nairne was a good farmer and his letters contain many references to farming operations. At
Murray Bay, he says, plowing goes on for seven months in the year, from the middle of April
to the middle of November. But the Canadians do not plough well; they do not understand how
to preserve the crops when cut; and, on the whole, are backward in agriculture. He himself
preserved for a domain more land than he could ever get cleared, for this clearing was heavy
work. Some of the soil at Murray Bay is very good. Gilchrist writes indeed to say that he has
been talking in Scotland about Nairne's land. "On my mentioning that you had lime, without
digging for it, it was acknowledged that you possessed all the advantages possible and that
anything might be done with ground such as yours which is dry; and I verily believe would you
thoroughly lime your land you may keep it in crops as long as you please and have prodigious
returns." Good farming, he says, Nairne may have and he should preserve good fishing; then
Murray Bay will be perfect. "If I have the pleasure of seeing your sisters, I'll represent
Mal Bay as the counterpart of Paradise before the fall." He adds some local characterizations.
"Catish will do for Eve, La Grange for Adam, and Dufour for the Devil."

Nairne was married in 1766 to Christiana Emery. Of her history I know nothing, except that
she was born in Edinburgh and married in Canada. Soon after marriage Nairne paid a long visit
to Scotland and there in 1767 the freedom of the borough of Sterling was conferred upon him.
Mrs. Nairne must have been considerably younger than her husband, for though he lived to ripe
old age, she survived him by twenty-six years, dying at Murray Bay in 1828. Whether she brought
any dowry I do not know; Nairne certainly had had in mind the improvement of his position by
marrying. Nine children were born to them but three died in childhood of an epidemic fever
that broke out at Murray Bay in 1773 while Nairne was in Scotland. A fourth child, Anne, died
of consumption. Five children lived to grow up--three daughters and two sons.

Canada seemed so remote that it was not easy for Nairne to keep in touch with his kin. The
scattering of families, one of the penalties Imperial Britain, with a world wide domain, imposes
upon her sons, had taken Nairne's brother Robert to India. At a time only ten years later than
Clive's great victory of Plassey, Britain's grasp on the country was, as yet, by no means certain
and India was amazingly remote; five years usually elapsed between the sending of a letter
to India from Canada and the receipt of a reply! On January 5th, 1770, Robert Nairne writes
from Marlborough, India, acknowledging a letter from his brother John, only recently received,
dated April 21, 1767. The brothers discuss family news and family plans, their old father's
health, the desirability of settling down at home in Scotland, the life each is living, remote
from that home. Though an officer, Robert engaged in trade and made some money. "The Company's
pay is hardly subsistence," he says, "and here we have not, as on t'other side of India the
spoils of plundered provinces to grow fat on. I keep my health very well and if I want the
satisfaction, I am also free from many Anxietys, people are subject to who are more in the
glare of life." He was in a retired place, where there were few people and perennial summer,
with "no variety of seasons nor of anything else." Time passes insensibly, he says; "in India
years are like months in Europe ... I write, read, walk and go in company the same round nearly
throughout the year. Here we have little company; yet everyone wants to go to out settlements
where they are quite alone. I cannot account for it. Mal Bay is your out settlement. Do you
like that as well as Quebec?"

Robert Nairne was something of a philosopher. "Have you ever so much philosophy," he writes
to the seigneur of Murray Bay in 1767, "as to think everything that happens is for the best?
I am so far of that mind that content and discontent I think arises [sic] rather from the cast
of our own thoughts than from outward accidents and that there is nearly an equal distribution
of the means of happiness to all men, and that they are the happiest that improve their means
the most." He felt the weariness of exile, the Scot's longing for his own land. "Certainly
to a person of a right tone of mind if there are enjoyments in life, it must be in our own
country amongst our friends and relations. With such conditions the bare necessaries of life
are better than riches without them.... Death is but a limited absence and you and I are much
in that state with regard to our friends at home."

It was not long before Robert Nairne's letters ceased altogether. In 1776, John Nairne received
at Murray Bay the sad news that, in November or December, 1774, his brother had been killed
in a petty expedition against some local tribesmen. A native chieftain had murdered, cooked
and eaten a rival who was friendly to the East India Company and Robert Nairne with some natives,
and only three Europeans, went up country, through woods and bogs, to seize the offender. When
there was fighting his natives fled, and he was shot through the body. It was a pity, says
John Nairne's correspondent, Hepburn, to lose his life "in so silly a manner." He would soon
have been governor of Bencoolen and was in a way to make "a great figure in life." Of his fortune
of £6,000 John Nairne received a part. Twenty-five years after his brother's death Nairne was
to get at Murray Bay similar news of the loss of his own son in distant India. It has levied
a heavy tribute of Britain's best blood.

In 1774 Nairne again revisited Scotland. Though no politician, he must have heard much about
the Quebec Act, then before the Imperial Parliament. The Governor of Canada, Sir Guy Carleton,
after careful consideration of the whole question, had reached the conclusion, not belied by
subsequent history, as far as the Province of Quebec is concerned, that Canada would always
be French and that, with some slight modifications, the French system found there by Britain
should be given final and legal status under British supremacy. So the Quebec Act was passed
in 1774. While the British criminal law was introduced, the French civil law, including the
land system under which Nairne held Murray Bay, was left unchanged. The Bill gave the Church
the same privileged position that it had enjoyed under Catholic sovereigns. The tithe could
be collected by legal process; taxation for church purposes voted by the parochial authority
called the fabrique was as compulsory as civil taxes, unless the person taxed declared that
he was not a Roman Catholic; and the whole ecclesiastical system of New France was supported
and encouraged. The Bill caused much irritation in Protestant New England, which saw some malicious
design in the establishment of Roman Catholicism on its borders. The Continental Congress of
1775 denounced the Quebec Act, and even the Declaration of Independence has something to say
about it.

It is obvious that Nairne disliked the Bill. His irrepressible friend, Gilchrist, wrote giving
a picture of its probable dire social results, upsetting all domestic relations between the
two races. The Bill, says Gilchrist, "is the most pernicious [that] could have been devised.
Judge of the Fêtes now that the fools have got the sanction of the British Parliament to their
beggaring principles. It is not clear that your Protestant servants will [even] be allowed
to work upon their [the Roman Catholic] idle days. What would you and I think on being told
by these black rascals [the priests are meant of course] that our people, I mean Protestants,
durst not obey our orders without a dispensation from them?"

The social consequences of the Quebec Act did not prove as revolutionary as Nairne's animated
correspondent feared. Less than is usually supposed did the habitant like it since it placed
him again under the priest's and the seigneur's authority, suspended since the British conquest.
To the English colonies it added one to other causes of friction that boded trouble to the
British Empire. In the previous year the people of Boston had defied Britain, by throwing into
their harbour cargoes of tea upon which the owners proposed to pay a hated duty, levied by
outside authority. The Quebec Act brought a final rupture a step nearer and at last there was
open war. "The colonists have brought things to a crisis now, indeed;" wrote Gilchrist; "the
consequences must be dreadful to them soon and I am afraid in the end to our country." To Great
Britain indeed disastrous they were to be and soon the seigneur of Murray Bay was busy with
his share in preparing for the conflict.

When war with the revolted colonies grew imminent, it was obvious that a man of Nairne's experience
in military matters would soon be needed. One aim of the government was to keep the French
Canadians quiet by disarming their prejudices and impressing upon them their duty to George
III. From Quebec, on July 13th, 1775, Nairne was given instructions to undertake this work
for his district. Self-control and cool persuasiveness fitted him for his task, he was told;
his work would be to visit all the parishes on the north shore, with the aim of winning the
loyal support of the French Canadians during the coming struggle. Though fifteen years of tranquility
under the mild British sway had made the habitants prosperous and averse to war, it was still
possible to get from them useful military service, under the leadership of British officers.
Nairne was to tell them that the Americans would borrow their dollars, take their provisions,
pay for them only in worthless letters of credit upon the Congress, and even make free with
their lands. He was to show, also, how bitterly the Protestant English colonies hated the Roman
Catholic faith of the Canadians. A British fleet, he was to add, would soon arrive and, if
the Canadians joined the revolt, the second British conquest would be shorter and not quite
so gentle as the first; for "a fair and open enemy is a different thing from a rebel and a
traitor."

Fifteen years earlier the Canadians had borne a heavy part in defending their country against
the British assailant; now they were to fight in his interests. Whenever possible Nairne was
to employ the same old Captains of militia who had fought the battles of France against the
British; he was to make a roll of those fit to bear arms, and to report the number of discharged
soldiers in his district. To him were entrusted commissions for Captains whom he might select;
the inferior officers he might also name. The Church aided his work as much as possible, the
Vicar-General sending to the priests instructions to this effect.

On taking up his task Nairne found that at Murray Bay there were thirty-two men between the
ages of 16 and 55. When summoned to meet him they were respectful, but showed fear of having
to serve in the army and pleaded that they were only a new settlement. Had there been, as is
so generally supposed, many disbanded soldiers among them we should have had a different tale
but, already, in 1775, most of the people at Murray Bay were French. Neither they nor their
neighbours showed any zeal for the upholding of British rule in Canada. At Les Eboulements
and Baie St. Paul, whither Nairne went, the inhabitants were respectful, as at Murray Bay,
but also objected to military service. At Isle aux Coudres they disregarded Nairne's summons
to meet him, while at St. Anne de Beaupré they made open manifestations of hostility.

In the actual fighting, now imminent, Nairne was eager to take part, and, on August 12th, he
wrote to Sir Guy Carleton offering himself for any service and applying for a vacant captaincy.
On the 9th of September he received an urgent summons to Quebec, and, from that time, for six
or seven years, he was engaged in the great fratricidal struggle.

Again, in a time of crisis, Great Britain made special use of the Highlanders. Many of those
who had served during the conquest of Canada had become settlers in the New World. Now at the
call to arms some of them--between one and two hundred--rallied again to fight Britain's battles.
They were formed into a regiment known as the Royal Highland Emigrants. It was not a regular
corps but was organized for this special campaign only. Nairne's rank in the regular army was
that of Captain; now he was given the duty of Major, though this promotion was not yet permanent.
Malcolm Fraser served in the same corps as Captain and Paymaster. The commanding officer, Colonel
Allan McLean, was brave and indefatigable and he and his Highlanders played a creditable part
in the work of saving Canada for Britain.

When the American colonies saw that the war was inevitable they saw too that Quebec was the
key of the situation. Washington himself declared that in favour of the holders of Quebec would
the balance turn in the great conflict. From the outset there was an eager desire to attack
the Canadian capital. Washington believed--with some truth, indeed,--that its defences were
ridiculous. He thought, too, that the Governor, Sir Guy Carleton, had no money to buy even
provisions, that the Canadians were eager to throw off the yoke of Great Britain and to co-operate
with the revolted colonies, and that some even of the few regulars to be found in Quebec would
join the colonial army. To take Quebec seemed, therefore, comparatively easy, and the task
was undertaken by a man with a sinister name for posterity as a traitor to the young republic,
but a vigorous and able officer,--Colonel Benedict Arnold. Wolfe's rôle Arnold essayed to play
and Wolfe's fame he fondly hoped would be his.

A fundamental difference existed, however, between Arnold's task and that of Wolfe. Wolfe's
army had been carried to Quebec in ships; Arnold's was to advance by land. He chose the shortest
route to Quebec from the New England seaboard. It lay through the untrodden wilderness and
its difficulties were terrible. Half of it was up the Kennebec river along whose shallow upper
reaches the men would have to drag their boats on chill autumn days in water sometimes to their
waists; then they must take them over the steep watershed dividing the waters flowing northward
to the St. Lawrence from those flowing southward to the Atlantic. Even when they embarked on
the upper waters of the Chaudière, which flows into the St. Lawrence near Quebec, the hardships
were killing. The numerous rapids and falls on that swift and turbulent river would wreck their
boats. At the time no fleet defended Quebec. If, instead of advancing by this land route, the
Americans had been able to bring, by sea, an adequate force as Wolfe had done, the later history
of Canada might indeed have been different.

Arnold set out in the middle of September with 1100 or 1200 men,--"the very flower of the colonial
youth" they have been called. Many were hardy frontier men trained in Indian wars, who knew
well the difficulties of the wilderness. But now they were face to face with something more
difficult than they had ever before encountered. When one Parson Emerson had committed the
enterprise to the divine care in a prayer that, tradition says, lasted for one hour and three-quarters,
the army began its struggle across the dreadful three hundred miles of forest. The swollen
rivers swept away much ammunition and food, until upon the army settled down the horror of
starvation. The boats proved to be badly built; their crews were always wet and shivering.
At night the men had sometimes to gather on a narrow footing of dry land in the midst of a
swamp and huddled over a fire that at any moment rain might extinguish. The cold became terrible.
Many lay down by the trail to die. When the journey was half over, Colonel Enos, deeming it
useless to lead the force farther amid such conditions, turned back. With him went some hundreds
of men; but Arnold held on grimly. He pushed ahead to get succour for his starving force from
the Canadian settlements near Quebec. With a few boats and canoes his party committed themselves
to the Chaudière river. In two hours Arnold was swept down twenty miles, steering as best he
could through the rapids, and avoiding the rocks, in the angry river. At one place all his
boats and canoes were carried over a fall and capsized, the occupants struggling to land. But
this reckless courage did wonders. By October 30th, after more than a month of unspeakable
hardship, Arnold had reached the borderland of civilization in Canada, and was sending back
provisions to his men. It is little short of marvellous that at Point Levi on November 9th
he could muster six hundred men, five hundred of whom were fit for duty.

The Canadians and Indians had been very friendly; without their aid the greater part of Arnold's
force would have perished. Even before Quebec he was dependent on their kindly offices. Its
defenders, among whom were Nairne and Fraser, moved every boat to the north side of the St.
Lawrence; the frigate Lizard and the sloop-of-war Hunter, pigmy representatives at Quebec of
Britain's might upon the sea, lay near Wolfe's Cove ready to attack him if he tried to cross.
But the Indians brought canoes and on the night of November 13th, silently and unobserved,
they carried Arnold's force across the river almost under the bows of the ships watching for
them. The Americans landed where Wolfe had landed sixteen years earlier. On the morning of
the 14th, to the surprise of Quebec's garrison, a body of Americans appeared on the Plains
of Abraham, not eight hundred yards from the walls, and gave three loud huzzas. The British
answered with three cheers and with the more effective retort of cannon, loaded with grape
and canister shot, and the hardy pioneers of Arnold's attacking force retired.

Quebec was not in a happy situation. Montreal had already fallen to the Americans advancing
by Lake Champlain, and to force the final surrender of Canada General Montgomery was hurrying
to join Arnold at Quebec. For a time its defenders were uncertain whether Carleton himself,
absent at Montreal, had not fallen into the hands of the enemy. A miraculous escape he indeed
had. Leaving Montreal on a dark night, when the Americans were already within the town, Carleton
went in a skiff down the river, both shores of which were already occupied by the enemy for
fifty miles below Montreal. At the narrows at Berthier their blazing camp fires sent light
far out over the surface of the water. Carleton's party could hear the sentry's shout of "All's
Well," and the barking of dogs. But they let the boat float down with the current so that it
might look like drifting timber, and, when they could, impelled it silently with their hands.
At Three Rivers they thought themselves safe and Carleton lay down in a house to sleep. But,
while he was resting, some American soldiers entered the house. His disguise as a peasant saved
him; he passed out unchecked. The skiff soon carried him to an armed brig, the Fell, which
lay at the foot of the Richelieu Rapids. He hastened on to Quebec, which showed joy unspeakable
when he arrived on November 19th. Meanwhile Montgomery pursued his rival down the river and
on December 1st he joined Arnold before Quebec.

Now the siege began in earnest. Carleton had 1800 men; Arnold and Montgomery can hardly have
had more than a thousand, and these were badly equipped. For the Americans the prospects of
success were, at no time, very great, unless they could secure help from the Canadians. This,
indeed, was not wholly wanting. Montgomery's march along the north shore of the St. Lawrence
to Quebec was a veritable triumph. He promised to the habitants liberty, freedom from heavy
taxes, the abolition of the seigneurs' rights and other good things. Some of the Canadians
hoped that, in joining the Americans, they were hastening the restoration of France's power
in Canada--an argument however of little weight with many, who remembered grim days of hard
service and starvation when, without appreciation or reward, they had fought France's battle.
The habitants were, in truth, friendly enough to the Americans; but they would not fight for
them. The invaders tried to arouse the fear of the peasantry by a tale that when the British
caught sixty rebel Canadians, they had hanged them over the ramparts of Quebec, without time
even to say "Lord, have mercy upon me," and had thrown their bodies to the dogs. But this only
made the habitants think it as well perhaps not to take arms openly against such stern masters.
The Church's weight was wholly on the British side. Canadians who joined the rebel Americans
died without her last rites. Only one priest, M. de Lotbinière, a man, it is said, of profligate
character, espoused the cause of the invaders. For doing so he was promised a bishopric: to
see Puritan New Englanders offering a bishopric in the Roman Catholic Church as a reward for
service, is not without its humour.

As December wore on Montgomery grew eager to seize his prey. Carleton sat unmoved behind his
walls and allowed the enemy to invest the town. He would hold no communication with the rebel
army. When Montgomery sent messengers to the gates, under a flag of truce, Carleton would not
receive them; the only message he would take, he said, would be an appeal to the mercy of the
King, against whom they were in rebellion. Montgomery, too, showed for his foe lofty scorn,
in words at least. On December 15th in General Orders he spoke of "the wretched garrison" posted
behind the walls of Quebec, "consisting of sailors unacquainted with the use of arms, of citizens
incapable of the soldier's duty and [a gibe at the corps in which Nairne served] a few miserable
emigrants." He went on to promise his troops that when they took Quebec "the effects of the
Governor, garrison, and of such as have been active in misleading the inhabitants and distressing
the friends of liberty" should be equally divided among the victors. The opposing sides showed,
in truth, the bitterness and exasperation of family quarrels and abandoned the usual courtesies
of war. The Americans lay in wait to shoot sentries; they fired on single persons walking on
the ramparts. It was reported to the British that Montgomery had said "he would dine in Quebec
or in Hell on Christmas"--gossip probably untrue, as a British diarist of the time is fair
enough to note, since it is not in accord with the dignity and sobriety of Montgomery's character.

He did what he could to make possible this Christmas festivity within Quebec's walls. His men
got together some five hundred scaling ladders. Then heavy snow came and the defenders jeered
at such preparations: "Can they think it possible that they can approach the walls laden with
ladders, sinking to the middle every step in snow? Where shall we be then? Shall we be looking
on cross-armed?" The clear and inconceivably cold weather was also one of Quebec's defences
for, as one diarist puts it, no man, after being exposed to it for ten minutes, could hold
arms in his half-frozen hands firmly enough to do any execution. But by nothing short of death
itself was Montgomery to be daunted; steadily he made his plans to assault the town.

Meanwhile Quebec was ready. Carleton ordered out of the town all who could not assist to the
best of their power in the defence. Some shammed illness to escape their tasks. But this was
the exception. Well-to-do citizens worked zealously, took their share of sentry duty on the
bitterly cold nights, and submitted to the commands of officers in the militia, their inferiors
in education and fortune. On the loftiest point of Cape Diamond Carleton erected a mast, thirty
feet high, with a sentry box at its top. From this he could command a bird's eye view of the
enemy's operations, to a point as distant as Ste. Foy Church. When one of the besiegers asked
a loyalist Canadian what the queer-looking object on the pole really was he answered, "It is
a wooden horse with a bundle of hay before him." A second remark capped this one: "General
Carleton has said that he will not give up the town till the horse has ate all the hay; and
the General is a man of his word."

Although Montgomery did not eat his Christmas dinner in Quebec a few days later he was ready
for an assault. The crisis came on the last day of the year 1775. Early on that day, between
four and five in the morning, Captain Malcolm Fraser, in command of the main guard, was going
his rounds in Quebec when he saw a signal thrown by the enemy from the heights outside the
walls near Cape Diamond. Fraser knew at once that it meant an attack. He sent word to the other
guards in Quebec and ordered the ringing of the alarm bell, and the drum-beat to arms. He himself
ran down St. Louis street, shouting to the guards to "Turn out" as loudly and often as he could,
and with such effect that he was heard even by General Carleton, lodged at the Recollet convent.
It was a boisterous night and the elements themselves raged so fiercely that some of the alarms
were not heard. But, in time, all Quebec was aroused and the guards stood at their posts.

The alarm was completed when to its din was added the menacing sound of cannon. The besiegers
began to ply the town with shells, and those who looked out over the ramparts could see in
the darkness the flash of guns. Soon began from behind ridges of snow, within eighty yards
of the walls of Cape Diamond, the patter of musketry. The Americans were seeking to lead the
defenders of Quebec to believe that an assault on the walls of the Upper Town on the side of
the Plains of Abraham was imminent and to hold the defence to this point. In fact the real
danger was far away.

Montgomery's was a hazardous plan. He had resolved to try to seize the Lower Town first and
then to get his troops into the Upper Town by way of the steep Mountain Street, thus taking
the defenders of the walls in the rear. It was a desperate venture, depending for its success
largely upon the surprise of the garrison which Malcolm Fraser's thorough-going alarm had prevented.
Montgomery himself, with a force of several hundred men, marched to the Lower Town from Wolfe's
Cove along the narrow path under the cliffs, a distance of nearly two miles, with progress
impeded by darkness, by heavy snow-drifts, and by blocks of ice which the tide had strewn along
the shore. His men struggled on in the dark hoping to surprise the post which guarded the road
below Cape Diamond at a point called Près de Ville. Here were some fifty defenders and the
tale of what happened is soon told. The guardians of the post were on the alert, for at it,
too, Malcolm Fraser's warning had been effective. As Montgomery bravely advanced, at the head
of his men, there was a flash and a roar in the darkness and the blinding snow storm, and,
a moment after, Montgomery lay dead in the snow with a bullet through his head. Two or three
other officers were struck down. The British heard groans and then there was silence. As daylight
came they saw hands and arms protruding from the snow, but only slowly did they realize that
the chief of their foes was killed.

Nairne was on duty elsewhere but he did not miss severe fighting. Arnold was to advance on
the Lower Town from the north-eastern suburb, St. Roch's, to meet at the foot of Mountain Street
Montgomery coming from the west. At first he was more fortunate than Montgomery. When the rocket
from Cape Diamond went up he set out. The storm was frightful but it served to conceal Arnold's
force from Quebec's sentries. The Americans passed under the height where stands the Hôtel
Dieu. Here Nairne was stationed with a small guard. They spied the Americans in the darkness
and kept up as effective a fire as the dim light permitted. But the assailants were able to
advance along the whole east side of Quebec and to reach the entrance to the Sault au Matelot,
a short and narrow street opening into the steep Mountain Street, by which alone the Upper
Town could be reached. Here fortune favoured them for, apparently, in spite of Fraser's alarm,
they surprised the guard at the first barrier by which the street was closed. The street itself
they secured but when they reached the second barrier at its farther end, commanding the road
to the Upper Town, it was well defended by an alert garrison. Arnold had already been wounded
and taken to the rear and Morgan, an intrepid leader, was in command of the assailing force.
Every moment he expected that Montgomery would arrive to attack the second barrier on the Sault
au Matelot from the West as he attacked it from the East. But Montgomery was dead and Morgan
waited in vain.

While the Americans were checked by the second barrier, Carleton was not idle. There was an
excellent chance to send a force out of the Palace Gate near the Hôtel Dieu, by which the assailants
had passed, and to attack them in the rear. For this duty Colonel Caldwell was told off and
he took with him Nairne and his picket of about thirty men. The force plodded through the deep
snow in the tracks of the enemy who, about daybreak, were astonished to find themselves shut
in by British forces at each end of the Sault au Matelot. A hand to hand fight followed. The
Americans took refuge in the houses of the street and it was the task of the British to drive
them out. In this Nairne distinguished himself. "Major Nairne of the Royal Emigrants and M.
Dambourges of the same corps by their gallant behaviour attracted the attention of every body,"
writes an English officer.[8] By ladders, taken from the enemy, they mounted to a window of
one of the houses, from which came a destructive fire, and at the point of the bayonet drove
the foe out by the door into the street. In the end, to the number of more than four hundred,
the Americans were forced to surrender. The casualties included thirty killed and forty-two
wounded. By eight o'clock all was over. "It was the first time I ever happened to be so closely
engaged," Nairne wrote to his sister on May 14th, 1776, "as we were obliged to push our bayonets.
It is certainly a disagreeable necessity to be obliged to put one another to death, especially
those speaking the same language and dressed in the same manner with ourselves.... These mad
people had a large piece of white linen or paper upon their foreheads with the words "Liberty
or Death" wrote upon it." Nairne's account is modest enough. One would not gather from it that
his own conspicuous courage had obtained general recognition.[9]

Even with Montgomery killed, Arnold wounded, and quite one-quarter of their force dead or captured,
those grim men who wished "Liberty or Death" had no thought of raising the siege. Ere long
Arnold was again active and, for four months longer, the Americans kept Carleton shut up within
Quebec. So deep lay the snow that to walk into the ditch from the embrasures in the walls was
easy; buried in the snow were the muzzles of guns thirty feet from the bottom of the ditch.
Sometimes Nairne was actively engaged in scouting work. In February we find him leading a party
to take possession of the English burying ground in the suburbs; on March 19th, he went out
into the open from Cape Diamond to the height overlooking the Anse de Mer. But nothing happened;
a diarist expresses, on April 21st, his contempt for the American attack by writing: "Hitherto
they have killed a boy, wounded a soldier, and broke the leg of a turkey."[10]

The assailants were, in truth, impotent before the masterly inactivity of Carleton, who waited
patiently behind his walls for the arrival in the spring of a British fleet. Counting upon
this expectancy the Americans tried an old-time ruse. Between nine and ten o'clock in the evening
of May 3rd, with the moon shining brightly and the tide flowing in and nearly high, a ship
under full sail came into view from the direction of the Island of Orleans. With the wind behind
her she swung in at a good rate of speed. Those who watched were, for a moment, sure that the
long expected rescue had come. But, as she bore down to the cul de sac where lay the shipping
at Quebec, she made no response to signals. At last, the British, after three vain efforts
to draw a response, warned her to reply or they should fire. When this threat was carried out
she was only some two hundred yards away. Then suddenly flames burst out on the ship, followed
by random explosions; a boat left her side rowed very swiftly, and it was now apparent that
she was sent to burn, if possible, the British shipping. It must have been an anxious moment
when she was so near and heading straight for her prey. But, showing a natural prudence, those
who steered left her too soon and, with no hand at the helm, her head came up quickly in the
wind. By this time all Quebec had been alarmed and, as attack from the landward side was also
expected, every man was soon at his post. The ship was a striking sight as, with sails and
rigging on fire, she drifted helplessly before the town. When the tide turned she floated down,
a mass of fire, with explosions shaking her from time to time, to the shallows off Beauport
where she soon lay stranded, a blackened ruin of half-burnt timbers.

Quebec still waited for rescue, and not in vain. At day break, on the 6th of May, a frigate
appeared round Point Levi. Again went forth the cry of "A ship," "A ship." "The news," we are
told, "soon reached every pillow in town." Men half dressed rushed to the Grand Battery, which
was quickly crowded with spectators, who indulged in much shaking of hands, and in the exchange
of compliments, as the character of the ship became clear. She was the British frigate Surprise,
and, with much difficulty, had forced her way, under full sail, through the great fields of
ice which still blocked the river. Following her closely were the Isis and a sloop the Martin.
Quebec went wild with joy. But there was still serious business on hand. The Surprise brought
a part of the 29th regiment and a good many marines. They were landed at once. Carleton lost
not a moment and, by twelve o'clock of the same day, the gates of Quebec were thrown open and
he marched out to attack the Americans.

It was only a thin red line that stretched across the Plains of Abraham. But the Americans
dared not face it. The newly arrived ships might, they feared, carry a force up the river and
cut off retreat; so, after some desultory skirmishing, the investing army fled. It was now
commanded by General Wooster, for Arnold had gone to Montreal. The flight soon became a panic.
Arms, clothes, food, private letters and papers were thrown away. Nairne was in command of
a portion of the Highland Emigrants, who were the vanguard of the British pursuing force, and
was among the first to occupy the American batteries. On that very ground he had fought, victorious
in 1759, woefully beaten in 1760; now, a victor again, he helped to drive back a force, some
of whose members had been his companions in those earlier campaigns. That night the relieved
British slept secure in Quebec, while the bedraggled American force was making its distressful
way towards Montreal.

Though the American army soon withdrew from Montreal and from Canada, the war was still to
drag on for many weary years. Throughout the whole of it Nairne remained on active service.
In September, 1776, we find him in command of the garrison at Montreal. In 1777 he was sent
to command the post at Isle aux Noix which guarded the route into Canada by way of Lake Champlain.
Here Fraser was serving under him as Captain; the two friends were usually together throughout
the war. At Isle aux Noix Nairne remained until June, 1779. We get glimpses from his letters
of the defects in the service at this time. There were involuntary evils, such as scurvy, caused
by want of fresh meat and vegetables, but relieved by drinking a decoction of hemlock spruce.
Moral evils there were too, such as gambling and drunkenness; in 1778 the commanding officer
gave warning that he had heard of losses at play, and that those taking part in such practises
would be excluded from promotion.

The British officers showed sometimes a fool-hardy recklessness. On March 9th, 1778, one Lieutenant
Mackinnon, with forty-five volunteers, set out from Pointe au Fer, near Isle aux Noix, to surprise
an American post at Parsons' House, no less than sixty miles distant, and in the heart of the
enemy's country. A few days later two of the volunteers returned with news that the attack
had wholly failed, that six of the party were killed and six wounded, and that Lieutenant Mackinnon
and four others were missing. So reckless an attack was bad enough and, in the General Orders,
it was condemned as "a presumptuous disregard of military discipline"; only vigilance and watchfulness
were required of the picket at Pointe au Fer, so that the enemy might not invade the province.
At the incident the Commander-in-Chief was very angry. "I never saw the General in such a passion
in my life," wrote an officer to Nairne. Mackinnon had surrounded the house in the darkness
and both he and his men, as far as is known, had done their best. Though wounded and for a
time missing, in the end Mackinnon got back crippled to Isle aux Noix. But he had failed, and
whispers soon began that he showed cowardice in the attack; an absurd charge, as Nairne said,
for he had given proof of rather too much, than of too little, courage. The accusation gave
Nairne infinite trouble. The subalterns in the Royal Highland Emigrants refused to do duty
with Mackinnon, and General Haldimand, who succeeded Carleton in the summer of 1778, would
not take the matter seriously enough to grant a Court Martial, that Mackinnon might clear himself.
For quite a year and a half the affair dragged on. In the end, at a Court of Enquiry, Mackinnon
was acquitted. Haldimand told Nairne to rebuke the officers sternly for combining to subvert
authority, for disrespect to their superiors, and for refusing, on the basis of futile reports
and hearsays, to serve with Mackinnon. "I much mistake his character," wrote Nairne of Mackinnon,
"if he can ... be prevented from calling one or two of those gentlemen to a severe account."

A part of Nairne's duty was to watch the French Canadians and check sedition. In spite of the
failure of Arnold's expedition many of them were still favourable to the American cause. They
harboured deserters in the remoter parishes, gave protection and assistance to rebels, and
threw as many difficulties as possible in the path of loyalists. Nairne found two men issuing
papers from a printing press to foment sedition and sent them down to Quebec to stand their
trial for treason.

From Isle aux Noix Nairne was sent, in the summer of 1779, with fifty of his Royal Highland
Emigrants, to command at Carleton Island, near Kingston where Lake Ontario flows into the St.
Lawrence; some thirty-five years later his only surviving son held a military command at the
same place. Here there was much to do in strengthening the fortifications and in keeping up
communications with Niagara and other points in the interior. The situation was not without
its embarrassments. Prisoners were sent in from Niagara and he had no prison in which to keep
them. For want of fresh meat and vegetables there was much sickness. But the Indians were his
greatest trial. Through him came their supplies and, to hold them at all, he had sometimes
to serve out the rum for which such savages are always greedy. On July 4th, Nairne made a speech
to these Mississaga Indians and said pretty plainly what he thought of them. Against the American
scouts they had proved no defence; at night they fired off guns in the neighbouring woods and
created false alarms, which prevented Nairne's men from getting their proper sleep. "My men
work hard in the day," he said, "and I will have them to sleep sound at night," and he warned
the Indians that he would fire upon them if their noise disturbed him further. The savages,
he wrote to Haldimand, are "almost unbearable, greedy and importunate." They behaved more like
rebels than friends and their talk ended always in the demand for rum, "the cause of all bad
behaviour in Indians."

On the remoter frontiers the war was ruthless beyond measure. Sir John Johnson devastated the
Mohawk valley, in the present State of New York, and some of his prisoners were received at
Carleton Island. Of this inglorious warfare Haldimand's secretary, Captain Matthews, wrote
to Nairne a little later [17th June, 1780], "You will have heard that Sir John Johnson has
executed the purpose of his enterprise without the loss of a man, having destroyed upwards
of an hundred dwelling houses, barns, mills, stock, &c., and brought off 150 Loyalists, besides
Women and Children." The worst outrages came from the Indian allies, of whom Nairne thought
so badly. From Niagara, on March 1st, 1779, Captain John MacDonnell wrote to Nairne of the
terrible massacre at Cherry Valley, on the New York frontier, which excited horror throughout
the colonies, and did much to inflame the hatred of the Americans for England. Not, however,
the English but the Indians were really guilty. "There has nothing appeared," wrote Captain
MacDonnell, "on the theatre of the war of near so tragical or rather barbarous a hue; the reflection
never represents itself to my view but when accompanyed with the greatest horrors; both Sexes,
young and old Tomahawked, Speared and Scalped indiscriminately in the most inhuman and cruel
manner. But that there was all possible care and precaution taken to prevent them is undenyable.
Captain Butler, who had command of the expedition, was indefatigable in his endeavours and
exertions to restrain and mitigate the fury and ferocity of the savages often at the risk of
the Tomahawk being made use of against himself as well as the Indian officers.... Out of a
hundred and seventy scalps three-fourths were those of Women and Children." Butler's name is
still looked upon in the United States as that of a fiend incarnate, but the testimony of his
fellow officer seems to free him from blame for the worst of the horrors. Both sides were bitter,
but Nairne himself never shows any vehemence of passion. In his view the war was a painful
necessity, to be fought to the end without anger.

Late in 1779, Nairne was recalled from Carleton Island. He reached Montreal on the 5th of December,
and, two days later, secured leave of absence to look after his private affairs. At this time
General Haldimand had matured a plan to take advantage of the remote position of Murray Bay
to confine there some of his American prisoners. At Murray Bay they seemed particularly safe.
There was as yet no road over Cap Tourmente; in any case to go in the direction of Quebec would
mean seizure sooner or later; to go in the opposite direction would be to perish in the wilderness;
and the only outlet was by water across a wintry river some twelve miles broad. On the 26th
of January, 1780, Haldimand wrote to Nairne at Murray Bay that he was to erect buildings for
rebel and other prisoners, and that, to do the work, some men were being sent down; he was
to employ in addition as many of the inhabitants as he might think necessary.

Nairne stayed on at Murray Bay in 1780 much longer than the two months for which he had originally
asked. A part of his duty was to watch that American colony, so different in station and situation
from the many Americans who now visit the spot. As yet there were no barracks in which to confine
the poor fellows, and the climate of Murray Bay is not too hospitable in winter. Some kind
of rough quarters must have been prepared for the prisoners, in the winter of 1779-80, and
they were kept busy in helping to build the houses intended for their occupation. They seemed
contented. One of them Nairne kept about his person. He knew where everything was placed and
all the men were used, Nairne says, in the best manner he could think of. But liberty is sweet
and they longed for their own land. So, early in May, 1780, when the ice was out of the river
and there was a chance to get away, eight of them made a dash for liberty.[11] No doubt under
cover of night, they stole a boat and put out boldly into the great river across which, in
so small a craft, few ever venture, even in mild summer weather. Almost wonderful to relate,
they reached the south shore in safety. Nairne was uncertain whether they had gone up, down,
or across the river. He hurried to Tadousac, crossed to Cacouna and then went up the south
shore. At St. Roch he found that the men, rowing a boat, had been seen to pass. On May 14th
this boat was found abandoned. On the 15th the men were seen on the highway carrying their
packs. We are almost sorry to learn that the poor fellows were in the end captured and taken
to Quebec. Nairne reported the flight of these men on the 14th of May. Their example was contagious
for, on the 18th, while he was absent in their pursuit, four others made off, found a small
boat on the shore some nine miles from Malbaie, and put out into the river, where their tiny
craft was seen heading for Kamouraska on the south shore. A few days later two others also
escaped. These had not courage to strike out into the river, and one of them was caught at
Baie St. Paul. Nairne offered a reward of four dollars for each of the prisoners and probably
all were taken. A sequel of the incident was that a non-commissioned officer and eight men
of the Anhalt-Zerbst Regiment were sent to guard the remaining prisoners at Murray Bay--a task
apparently beyond Nairne's local militia. This guard was, no doubt, composed of Germans; one
wonders to what extent they fraternized with the French Canadians. It is amusing to read that,
when one of them deserted, he was brought back by a habitant.

In 1781 we find Nairne stationed at Verchères on the south side of the St. Lawrence, nearly
opposite Montreal. He was now in charge of the expatriated Loyalists who had found refuge in
that part of Canada. A whole corps of them were billeted in the two parishes of Verchères and
Contrecoeur--the officers chiefly at Contrecoeur. They lived, of course, in the cottages with
the habitants. On December 16th, 1781, Nairne writes to General Riedesel, a German officer
who played a conspicuous part on the British side in the Revolutionary war and was now in command
at Sorel, that the Canadians do not mind supplying firewood for the loyalist officers but that
they rather object to having the same people quartered upon them for two years at a time. Though
an occasional officer had said that the Loyalists were not obedient, he adds that they were
quiet and orderly people. Some of them had large families and must have crowded uncomfortably
their involuntary hosts. These colonial English living in the households of their old-time
enemies, the French Canadians, make a somewhat pathetic picture. We see what domestic suffering
the Revolutionary War involved. Some were very old; one "genteel sort of woman," a widow, had
four children, the youngest but four months old; there was another whose husband had been hanged
at Saratoga as a spy. Very large sums passed through Nairne's hands in behalf of the Loyalists.
One account which he renders amounts to about £20,000.[12]

Nairne's regiment, the Royal Highland Emigrants, had been put upon the permanent establishment
in 1779. Sometimes he complained that his own promotion was slow; not until the spring of 1783
was he given the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. Having reached this goal he intended, as soon
as he decently could, to sell out and retire. Late in 1782 we find him again in command at
Isle aux Noix and not sure but that he may at any time be surprised by the Americans. It seems
odd that, though Cornwallis had already surrendered at Yorktown, and the war was really over,
Nairne was still hoping for final victory for Great Britain; on February 8th, 1783, he writes:
"It is to be hoped that affairs will at last take a favourable turn to Great Britain; her cause
is really a just one." In fact preliminary articles of the most disastrous peace Great Britain
has ever made had already been signed.

Nairne was now anxious to go home. But even in June, 1783, he could not get leave of absence
from Isle aux Noix for even a fortnight. Conditions were still unsettled. American traders
were now pressing into Canada but Nairne sent back any that he caught; the cessation of arms
was, he said, no warrant as yet for commercial intercourse and many suspicious characters were
about. The troops from Europe were returning home. General Riedesel, about to leave for Germany,
wrote from Sorel on July 6th, 1783, a warm letter of thanks to Nairne for the attention, readiness,
and punctuality of his services. Not long after, in the same year, Nairne was at last free.
He now sold his commission, receiving for it £3,000. With the sale he renounced all claim to
half-pay, pension, or other consideration for past services and the sum he received was, therefore,
no very great final reward for his long services. There had been some competition for this
commission and its final disposal throws some light on promotion in the army under the purchase
system. General Haldimand insisted that Captain Matthews, who appears to have been his relative,
should get it, since the General "must provide for his own family." At this time Malcolm Fraser
too thought of selling out but he made difficulties about terms and the opportunity passed;
Fraser was, indeed, to live to see recruiting service in the war of 1812. When the war was
over, Nairne hurried to Murray Bay and to the country life in which he delighted, and in his
correspondence we soon find him discussing not high questions of national defence but the qualities
of "a well-bred bull calf" and of an improved plough. "I have more satisfaction," he says,
perhaps with a touch of irony, "in a country life and [in] cultivating a farm than even [in]
being employed as first major of the Quebec militia." Henceforth his heart is wholly at Murray
Bay and in his interests there.

[Footnote 8: Diary of an English Officer. Proceedings of the Literary and Historical Society
of Quebec, 1871-72, p. 61.]

[Footnote 9: See Appendix C., p. 273, for the text of his letter to his sister describing the
operations of the winter at Quebec.

Colonel Nairne's life was troubled with many sorrows. In 1773, when he was on a visit to Scotland,
Malcolm Fraser had had the painful duty of writing to tell him of the death of three of his
infant children at Murray Bay from a prevailing epidemic. His daughter, Anne, born in 1784,
was sent to Scotland to be educated. She contracted consumption and after a prolonged illness
died there in 1796. "This event gave me great affliction," wrote Nairne, "she was always a
most amiable child." There now remained two sons and three daughters,[13] and Nairne may well
have been certain that his name would go down to an abundant posterity. One of the chief interests
of his life was their training and education. All in turn were sent to Scotland for their chief
schooling. The eldest son, John, born in 1777, and his sister Christine, some three years older,
lived in Edinburgh with aunts who showed exhaustless kindness and interest. Nairne was grateful,
and writing from Malbaie on August 27th, 1791, he says: "[I] am glad of an opportunity, my
dear Christine and Jack, to remind you both in the strongest manner I am able of the gratitude
and assiduous Duty you owe to your Aunts and other Relations for admitting you into their family
and also for the attention they are pleased to bestow on your education." Upon his children
he imposes indeed counsels of perfection not easy to fulfil; "Remember it's my injunctions
and absolute orders to you both to have always an obedient temper to your superiors ... to
receive every reprimand with submission and attention as it can only be intended for your benefit
in order to give you a valuable character which of all things is the greatest blessing both
for this world and the next; besides you must consider that you are never to indulge yourselves
in any sort of indolence or laziness but to rise early in the morning to be the more able to
fulfil your Duty.... As to you, Jack, I expect to see you a Gallant and honourable fellow that
will always scorn to tell the least lie in your life. It was well done to answer Captain Fraser
[Malcolm Fraser, a Lieutenant in 1762, is still only a Captain in 1791!] with which he was
well pleased.... Both of you have I think improved in your writing which gives me pleasure."
He adds regretfully to Christine: "I cannot send you a muff this year but perhaps I may do
so next year." The letter closes with a modest list of purchases to be sent out from Edinburgh
for Malbaie: "one piece of Calico for two gowns; one piece of calico for children; three pieces
of linen (for shirts), two of which coarse and the other a little finer; one yard of cambrick;
five yards of muslin (for caps and Handkerchiefs); six yards of lace (for caps); twelve yards
of different ribbons, three pairs of worsted stockings and three pairs of cotton stockings
for myself."

Jack was to follow a military career, and he entered the army when a youth of sixteen or seventeen.
His first active service was in the West Indies, after war with revolutionary France broke
out, and the dangers of that climate gave his father some anxiety; all will be well, he hopes,
if Jack continues to take a certain "powder of the Jesuits' Bark"; above all "the best rules
are temperance and sobriety"; then "the same gracious Power who protected me in many dangers
through the course of three Wars will also vouchsafe protection to you through this one." In
1795, when Jack was only eighteen, his corps was back in England and, through the influence
of a distant relative, General Graeme, with the Duke of York, Commander in Chief of the Army
and all powerful in days when promotion went avowedly by favour and purchase rather than by
merit, Jack secured a Lieutenancy in the 19th Regiment. His father was delighted: "I wish you
much joy with all my heart of your quick rise in being at your age already a Lieutenant in
an old Regiment whereas I was past twenty-six years of age before I obtained a Lieutenancy
in the British service and that only in a young corps." At the time, with Britain warring on
the French Directory, service in Europe for Jack was not unlikely, and was desired by Nairne.
But in the end Jack's regiment was ordered to India. Nairne was sorely disappointed, but writing
to Jack he laid down a great guiding principle: "we must suppose that Providence orders everything
aright and that, provided we are always active and diligent in doing our duty, there is reason
to be satisfied." In view of what was to happen, his anxiety for the success of his son is
pathetic. He exhorts him in regard to every detail of conduct. He is to avoid drink and gambling;
to pay his accounts promptly; to be punctual and scrupulously exact whenever duty or business
is concerned. The father is particularly anxious about his son's capacity to express himself
in good English and lays down the sound maxim that "writing a correct and easy style is undoubtedly
of all education the most necessary and requisite." To acquire this he "ought to write and
read a great deal with intense labour, attention and application"; to write several hours a
day is not too much and to get time he must go to bed early and rise early. It is wise to keep
a grammar and dictionary always at hand to correct possible errors. He should also translate
from French into English. The father himself undertakes the duty of the complete letter writer,
drawing up for Jack a model on which his letters may be based. "In writing ordinary letters
(as in conversation) a large scope may be taken, as of News, all sorts of information, adventures,
descriptions, remarks, enquirys, compliments, &c., &c., but in a letter upon business one is
commonly confined only to what is necessary to be said on the subject and to civilitys and
politeness." Certainly Jack did not lack admonition and when he does well his father writes
that it makes him "very happy." When in one letter Jack mentions the practise of smoking his
father is severe: "All our family have ever been temperate not [practising] even the Debauchery
of smoking tobacco, a nasty Dutch, Damn'd custom, a forerunner of idleness and drunkenness;
therefore Jack, my lad, let us hear no more of your handling your Pipe, but handle well your
fuzee, your sword, your pen and your Books."

Certainly the pictures sometimes drawn of the brutality, violent manners and ignorance of the
British officer at this period find no confirmation in Nairne's monitions to his son, or in
the account of his own military experience which dates from the mid-eighteenth century. He
says to Jack: "Say your Prayers regularly to God Almighty and trust entirely to His Will and
Pleasure for your own preservation.... If you should happen to be in an engagement attend to
your men, encourage them to act with spirit in such a manner as most effectually to destroy
their enemy's."[14] When Jack is a little too free in his demands for money the Colonel, writing
on Nov. 22nd, 1795, tells him of his own experience:

     I have done wrong in having given you so much money since you went
     into the Army which might have served you almost without any pay
     from the King and which by the bye I can little afford. You
     obtained it easily; for which reason I suppose you have spent it
     easily: you have no right to expect more than I had at your age yet
     you seem to regard twenty pounds as I would have done twenty
     shillings. But you must now understand that twenty pounds is a
     considerable sum to my circumstances they being straitened for the
     Rank and the family which I have to support; therefore I have to
     inform you that you are to draw no more Bills upon Mr. Ker nor upon
     me without first obtaining his or my consent in writing for so
     doing. It is no disgrace nor does it hurt the service (but quite
     the contrary) for every officer and soldier to live within the
     limits of the pay which Government has thought proper to allow
     them. They are thereby more led to temperance, to improve
     themselves by study, to mind their duty and how best to promote the
     service of their country. I served sixteen years as a subaltern
     officer in the army, made long sea voyages with the Regiment,
     furnished myself with sea stores, camp equipage and every other
     necessary equipments [and] my Father nor any Relation during that
     time was never [put to] one farthing's expense upon my account.
     Altho' I sometimes lost money in the Recruiting service I repayed
     it by stoppages from my pay, was always present with the men
     whether in camp or in Garrison and punctually attending on my Duty.
     I endeavoured to be in a good mess for my Dinner, drank small Beer
     or Water when it was good; when the Water was bad qualified it with
     a mixture of Wine or Ginger or Milk or Vinegar but no grog or
     smoking tobacco. I was always an enemy to suppers, never engaged
     myself in the Evenings, but on particular occasions or to be
     Complaisant to Strangers. Nor [did I] ask Company to see me when on
     Guard; nor show a Vanity to treat people. By which means I had a
     great deal of quiet and sober time to myself, to read and to write,
     &c., &c., especially as I always rose early in the Mornings. You
     may believe also that I was always far from being concerned in any
     sort of Gaming so as to risk losing any of my money or to have a
     desire to gain any from others. By such a Conduct I received more
     favour and regard sometimes from my Commanding officers even than I
     thought I was entitled to.

These monitions to Jack were written while his father was in Scotland in 1795. There they separated,
the father to return to Canada with Christine whose schooldays were now ended, Jack to go with
his regiment to India. In parting from his son the father pronounced a solemn benediction:
"that God may preserve you and assist you in following always that which is good and virtuous
shall ever be my most earnest prayer." They never met again. Jack continued to draw rather
freely upon his father for funds, and Nairne wrote to the Colonel of the regiment to ask for
information about the young man. Before an answer came Scottish relatives learned in 1800 of
Jack's fate and wrote of it to Murray Bay. A friend of the family in India had noticed in the
newspaper that some one was promoted to John Nairne's place. This led to enquiry, when it was
found that he had died in August, 1799. Not until six months after his death, and then only
in reply to the enquiry as to Jack's demands for money, did his commanding officer write the
following letter to Colonel Nairne:

     Colonel Dalrymple to Colonel Nairne

     From Columbo [India], 1st Feb., 1800.

     I received your letter dated October, 1798, but a short time ago
     but too late, had there been any occasion to have spoken to your
     son upon the subject it contained for, Poor fellow, it is with pain
     I'm to inform you of his death. He died upon the 7th of August,
     1799, in the Coimbalore country upon the return from the capture of
     Seringapatam. Never did a young man die more regretted nor never
     was an officer more beloved by his corps. He was an honour to his
     profession. An involuntary tear starts in my eye on thus being
     obliged to give you this painful information.

     The cause of his having drawn for so much money from Bombay was
     unfortunately his ship parted from us and they did not join at
     Columbo for some months, where I understand he had been induced to
     play by some designing people. But I assure you, from the moment he
     joined here, his life was exemplary for all young men. He was
     beloved by every description of people. From the very sudden way he
     took the field and the very expensive mode of campaigning in this
     country he was in debt to the paymaster. He was not singular; they
     were all in the same predicament. The first division of the prize
     money which was one thousand ster. Pagodas, about your hundred
     pounds, will only clear him with the Regiment.

Long before this letter arrived the news was known at Murray Bay. Malcolm Fraser, the tried
family friend, writes on September 1st, 1800, that he has just discharged the most painful
task of telling the sad news to Jack's sister and companion, Christine, who was visiting in
Quebec. In his grief Nairne gives an exceeding bitter cry, "Lord, help me. I shall lose all
my children before I go myself." His sister Magdalen wrote from Edinburgh on March 17th, 1800,
to offer comfort and to hope that he bears the trial "with Christian fortitude, and that God
will reward him by sparing those that remain to be a blessing to him," Nairne's sisters now
had with them in Edinburgh the two remaining children, Tom and Mary, called "Polly." John is
gone but Tom is left, says the fond aunt, and to console Nairne she tells of Tom's virtues:
"Never was father blessed with a more promising son than our little Tom, and though I used
to dread he was too faultless and too good to live, I would now persuade myself he is intended
by Providence to compensate you for the losses you have sustained." On Tom now centred the
hopes of the Nairne family.

The sands of Nairne's own life were running out. As he looked around him he could see much
to make his heart content. He was never unmindful of the singular beauty of the place. "I wish
I could send you a landscape of this place," he wrote to a friend, John Clark, in 1798; "Was
you here your pencil might be employed in drawing a beautiful one which this Bay affords, as
the views and different objects are remarkably various and entertaining." This is, no doubt,
a mild account of the beauties of a very striking scene, but the 18th century had not developed
our appreciation for nature. Nairne tells of his delight in tramping through the woods, and
over the mountains, with a gun on his shoulder. The increase of settlement, and the burning
of the woods, had driven the wild animals farther back into the wilderness, but partridges
and water fowl were still abundant. There was salmon fishing almost at his door and "Lake Nairne,"
the present Grand Lac, had famous trout fishing. The thick woods, which at his coming extended
all round the bay, were now cleared away. Much land had been enclosed and brought under cultivation
and to do this had been a laborious and expensive task. Now he had three farms of his own,
each with a hundred acres of arable land and with proper buildings. There was also a smaller
farm for hay and pasture. "I have been employed lately," he writes in 1798, "making paths into
our woods and marking the trees in straight lines thro' tracts of pretty good land in order
to encourage the young men to take lots of land." He tells how the successive ridges, representing,
no doubt, different water levels in remote ages, were numbered. In the highest, Number 7, the
lakes are all situated; the elevated land was generally the best but as yet settlement was
chiefly in Flats 1, 2, and 3. His great aim had always been to get people on the land and he
denounced obstacles put in their way. "For God's sake let them pitch away, and if they have
not good titles give them better." The Manor House had become a warm and comfortable residence
well finished and well furnished. In 1801 Nairne wrote to his sister, with some natural exultation,
that where he had at first found an untrodden wilderness were now order, neatness, good buildings,
a garden and plenty of flowers, fruits and humming birds. In the winter one might often say
"O, it's cold," but means of warming oneself were always available. His wife had proved always
a useful helper and was indeed a motherly, practical woman, beloved by the people. These came
to pay their compliments on the first day of the year, when there was much drinking of whiskey
and eating of cakes, all costing a pretty penny. There were 100 young men in the parish composing
a complete company of militia. The children grew up so fast that he could not distinguish the
half of them.

On the commercial side also Murray Bay was developing. In 1800 a man came through the district
buying up wheat at "9 livers a Bushel," but since the population was increasing very rapidly,
and the people were accustomed to eat a great deal of bread, there was not much wheat for export.
The total exports of all commodities amounted in 1800 to £1500:--oil, timber, grain, oxen and
a few furs being the chief items. Oil was the most important product; it came from the "porpoise"
fishery. What Nairne calls a porpoise, is really the beluga, a small white whale. The fishery
is an ancient industry on the St. Lawrence.[15] The creature has become timid and is now not
readily caught so that the industry survives at only a few points. At Malbaie it has wholly
ceased; but in the summer of 1796 sixty-two porpoises were killed at "Pointe au Pique." In
the summer of 1800, which was hot and dry, no less than three hundred were "catched." Malbaie
must have had bustling activity on its shores when such numbers of these huge creatures were
taken in a single season. We can picture the many fires necessary for boiling the blubber.
The oil of each beluga was worth £5 and the skin £1. Nairne's own share in a single year from
this source of revenue was £70, but even then the industry was declining.

We have Nairne's statement of income in 1798 and it indicates simple living at Malbaie. We
must remember that in addition, he had received a number of bequests which brought in a considerable
income and that he had sold out of the army for £3000. Perhaps, too, 1798 was a bad year.

"Porpoise" fishery                          £20
Income from four farms at £20 each           80
Profits from mills                           20
                                          -----
                                           £120

The rent from the land granted to the habitants was scarcely worth reckoning, as the people
paid nothing until the land was productive, a condition that could apparently be postponed
indefinitely. Since under the seigniorial tenure, the farmers must use the seigneur's grist
mill, Nairne had his mill in operation and Fraser was building one in 1798. Nairne had also
one or more mills for sawing timber. "I hope there are a great many loggs brought and to be
brought to your and my saw mills," Fraser wrote in 1797, but an income of only £20 a year from
the mills does not indicate any extortionate exercise of seigniorial rights.

Already some of the city people were beginning to find Murray Bay a delightful place in which
to spend the summer. In 1799 Nairne writes to a friend, Richard Dobie, in Montreal, that it
is the best place in the world for the recovery of strength. "You shall drink the best of wheys
and breathe the purest sea air in the world and, although luxuries will be wanting, our friendship
and the best things the place can afford to you, I know, will make ample amends:"--a simple
standard of living that subsequent generations would do well to remember. In 1801 the manor
house must have been the scene of some gaiety for there and at Malcolm Fraser's were half a
score of visitors. Christine, Nairne's second daughter, who preferred Quebec to the paternal
roof, had come home for a visit and other visitors were the Hon. G. Taschereau and his son,
Mr. Usburn, Mr. Masson, Mrs. Langan and Mrs. Bleakley, Fraser's daughters, described as "rich
ladies from Montreal," the last with three children. No doubt they drove and walked, rowed
and fished, much as people from New York and Baltimore and Boston and Toronto and Montreal
do still on the same scene, when they are not pursuing golf balls. The coming of people with
more luxurious habits made improvements necessary and also, Nairne says, increased the expense
of living--a complaint that successive generations have continued with justice to make.

With Tom and Mary Nairne absent at school in Edinburgh, the family at Murray Bay during Nairne's
last days consisted of but four persons--of himself and his wife and the two daughters Magdalen
and Christine. Christine, a fashionable young lady, disliked Murray Bay as a place of residence,
tolerated Quebec, but preferred Scotland where she had been educated. "Christine does not like
to stay at Murray Bay and Madie her sister does not like to stay anywhere else," wrote Nairne
in 1800. In the manner of the eighteenth century he was extremely anxious that his children
should be "genteel". Christine's Quebec friends pleased him. "I saw her dance at a ball at
the Lieutenant-Governor's and she seemed at no loss for Genteel partners but does not prepare
to find one for life. I am well pleased with her and do not in the least grudge her so long
as she is esteemed by the best company in the place." It was not easy to find at Quebec proper
accommodation for unmarried young women living away from home. Nairne writes in August, 1797,
that he and Christine each paid $1.00 a day in Quebec where they lodged, although they mostly
dined and drank tea abroad. "The town gentry of Quebec are vastly hospitable Civil and well-bred
but no such a thing as an invitation to stay in any of their houses." At length a Mr. Stewart
opened his doors. He must, Nairne wrote, be paid tactfully for the accommodation he furnishes.
Things went better when later Miss Mabane, the daughter of a high official of the Government,
kept Christine with her at Quebec all the winter of 1799-1800; no doubt Christine was pleased
when Miss Mabane would not allow her to go to Murray Bay even for the summer. Her elder sister,
Madie, appears to have been hoydenish and somewhat uncongenial to a young lady so determined
to be "genteel."

In the winter time communication with the outside world was almost entirely suspended. In case
of emergency it was possible indeed to pass on snow shoes by Cap Tourmente, over which there
was still no road, and so reach Quebec by the north shore. But this was a severe journey to
be undertaken only for grave cause. Partly frozen over, and often with great floes of ice sweeping
up and down with the tide, the river was dangerous; the south shore, lying so well in sight,
was really very remote. Yet news passed across the river. On February 12th, 1797, Malcolm Fraser,
who was on the south shore, found some means of sending a letter to Nairne. Anxious to get
word in return he planned a signal. He said that on March 6th he would go to Kamouraska, just
opposite Murray Bay, and build a fire. If Nairne answered by one fire Fraser would be satisfied
that nothing unusual had happened; if two fires were made he would understand that there was
serious news and would wish as soon as possible to learn details. Signalling across the St.
Lawrence attained a much higher development than is found in Fraser's crude plan. Philippe
Aubert de Gaspé tells how the people on the south shore could read what had happened on the
north shore from Cap Tourmente to Malbaie. On St. John's eve, December 26th, the season of
Christmas festivities, there was a general illumination. Looking then across the river to a
line of blazing fires the news was easily understood. "At Les Eboulements eleven adults have
died since the autumn, three of whom were in one house, that of Dufour. All are well at the
Tremblays; but at Bonneau's some one is ill. At Belairs a child is dead,"--and so on. The key
is simple enough. The situation of the fire would indicate the family to which it related.
A fire lighted and kept burning for a long time meant good news; when a fire burned with a
half smothered flame it meant sickness; the sudden extinguishing of the fire was a sign of
death; as many times as it was extinguished so many were the deaths; a large blaze meant an
adult, a small one a child. Before the days of post and telegraph these signals were used winter
and summer; so great an obstacle to communication was the mighty tide of the St. Lawrence.[16]

At all seasons but especially in winter the news that reached Malbaie was of a very fragmentary
character. With his kin in Scotland Nairne exchanged only an annual letter but since each side
took time and pains to prepare it, the letter told more, probably, than would a year's bulk
of our hurried epistles. Newspapers were few and dear and only at intervals did any come. Books
too were scarce. Occasionally Nairne notes those that he thought of buying--St. Simon's "Memoirs;"
an account of the Court of Louis XIV; "A Comparative View of the State and Facultys of Man
with those of the Animal World;" "Elegant Extracts or Useful and Entertaining passages in prose,"
a companion volume to a similar one in poetry, and so on. He writes gratefully, in 1799, to
a friend in Quebec, who had sent newspapers and sermons, both of which remotely different classes
of literature had furnished "great entertainment." From Europe he is receiving the volumes
of the new edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica, still on the shelves at Murray Bay, and
is thankful that they were not captured by the French. "The older I grow the fonder I am of
reading and that book is a great resource." Our degenerate age gets little "entertainment"
out of sermons and usually keeps an encyclopædia strictly for "reference"; obviously Nairne
read it.

The old soldier watched and commented upon developments which were the fruit of seed he himself
had helped to sow. He had fought to win Canada for Britain; he had fought to crush the American
Revolution. By 1800 he sees how great Canada may become and is convinced that yielding independence
to the United States has not proved very injurious to Great Britain. Though, in a short time,
the United States was to secure the great West by purchasing Louisiana from France, when Nairne
died it had not done so and in 1800 he could say that the United States "are small in comparison
of the whole of North America. They are bounded upon all sides and will be filled up with people
in no very great number of years. Our share of North America is yet unknown in its extent.
Enterprising people in quest of furs travel for years towards the north and towards the west
through vast countries of good soil uninhabited as yet ... [except] for hunting, and watered
with innumerable lakes and rivers, stored with fish, besides every other convenience for the
use of man, and certainly destined to be filled with people in some future time. We have only
[now] heard of one named Mackenzie[17] who is reported to have been as far as the Southern
Ocean (from Canada) across this continent to the West." Long before Canada stretched from the
Atlantic to the Pacific Nairne was thus dreaming of what we now see.

Of war, then raging, Nairne took a philosophic view. "War may be necessary," he writes in 1798,
"for some very Populous countrys as any crop when too thick is the better of being thinned."
But it occurred to him that the problem of over-population in Europe might have been solved
in a less crude manner. "It is strange," he says, "that there should be so much of the best
part of the globe still unoccupied, where the foot of man never trod, and in Europe such destruction
of people. It is however for some purpose we do not, as yet, comprehend." Those were the days
when Napoleon Bonaparte's star was rising and when, in defiance of England, led by Pitt, he
smote state after state which stood in the path of his ambition. Nairne's friend and business
agent James Ker, an Edinburgh banker, was obviously no admirer of Pitt, for he writes on July
20th, 1797, of the struggle with revolutionary France which, though it was to endure for more
than twenty years, had already, he thought, lasted too long:

     After a four years' war undertaken for the attainment of objects
     which were unattainable, in which we have been gradually deserted
     by every one of our allies except Portugal, ... too weak to leave
     us; and after a most shameless extravagance and Waste of the public
     money which all feel severely by the imposition of new and
     unthought of taxes, we have again sent an ambassador to France to
     try to procure us Peace.... If our next crop be as bad as our two
     last ones God knows what will become of us. If it were not for the
     unexampled Bounty and Charity of the richer classes the Poor must
     have literally starved, but we have been favoured with a very mild
     winter.

In 1798 when Napoleon led his forces to Egypt and disappeared from the ken of Europe, Nairne
hopes devoutly that "he has gone to the Devil, or, which is much the same thing, among the
Turks and Tartars where he and his army may be destroyed." After Nelson succeeded in his attack
on the French fleet at the Battle of the Nile Nairne rejoices that his country is supreme on
the sea, "By ruling the waves she will rule the wealth of the world not by plunder and conquest
but by wisdom and commerce and increasing riches everywhere to the happiness of mankind." On
March 20th, 1801, when Austria had just made with France the Peace of Lunéville, Ker writes
again to Nairne:

     We live in the age of wonders, sudden changes and Revolutions. The
     French have now completely turned the tables on us. They have
     forced Austria to a disastrous peace and Russia, Prussia, Denmark
     and Sweden from being our friends and Allies are now uniting with
     our bitter foes for our destruction, so that from having almost all
     Europe on our side against France we have now the contest to
     support alone against her and almost all Europe and nothing
     prevents the ambitious French Republic from being conquerors of the
     world but our little Islands and our invincible fleets.
     Notwithstanding all this we do not seem afraid of invasion and a
     large fleet under Sir Hide Parker and Lord Nelson is preparing to
     sail for the Baltic to bring the northern powers to a sense of
     their duty, and to break in pieces the unnatural coalition with our
     inveterate foes, the foes of Religion, Property, true Liberty,
     which but for our strenuous efforts would soon nowhere exist on
     this Globe.

In spite of what Ker says as to no fear of invasion, such a fear grew really very strong in
1801, and, for a brief period, it seemed as if Murray Bay might become a refuge for Nairne's
kindred in the distressed mother land. One of his sisters writes in an undated letter:

     We are much obliged to you for the kind of reception you say we
     should have met with at Mal Bay had we fled there from the French
     and I do assure you ... it was for some time a very great comfort
     and relief to think we had resources to trust to. I for one, I am
     sure, was almost frightened out of my wits, for a visit from these
     monsters, even the attempt, tho' they had been subdued after
     landing, was fearsome. I suspect you might have had more of your
     friends than your own family to have provided for. The Hepburns I
     know turned their thoughts toward you and all of us determined to
     work for our bread the best way we could. But you might have no
     small addition to your settlers; some of us poor old creatures
     would have settled heavy enough I fear upon yourself and family. It
     is a fine place Mal Bay turned by your account. What a deal of
     respectable company. I am glad of it on your account. A very great
     piece of good fortune to get Col. Fraser so near; I wonder he does
     not marry Maidy, but she will think him too old. I think Christine
     may do a great deal worse than spend the summer if not more at Mal
     Bay. You are most amazingly indulgent to her. I wish she would make
     a grateful return by bestowing more of her company on her friends
     at home in a situation it would appear so pleasant. But she is a
     good kind-hearted Lassie after all and I suppose when she has got
     her full swing of Quebec she will be very well pleased to return
     home.

A legislature now sat at Quebec, the result of the new Constitutional Act passed in 1791, and
Nairne might have become a member. Murray Bay then formed a part of what, with little fitness,
had been called by the English conquerors the County of Northumberland, no doubt because it
lay in the far north of Canada as Northumberland lies in the far north of England. Two members
sat in the legislature for this county. "I never had any idea of trying to be one of them,"
writes Nairne in 1800, "but succeeded in procuring that honour for a friend Dr. Fisher, who
resides in Quebec. He is rich and much flattered with it and is ready on all occasions to speak."

To Nairne, contrary to a general impression, the climate of Canada did not seem to grow milder
as the land was cleared. In any case the blood of old age runs less hotly. Formerly the winter
had its delights of hunting excursions but now, he writes, these are all over. "The passion
I had formerly for hunting and fishing and wandering through the woods is abated.... What with
the cold hand of old age my former Winter excursions into the woods seem impossible and no
more now of fishing and hunting which formerly I esteemed so interesting a business." He writes
again: "My employment is more in the sedentary way than formerly and what from calls in my
own affairs and calls from people here in theirs, accounts to settle, &c., [I have] ... plenty
of occupation. Besides being a Justice of the Peace and Colonel of Militia ... I employ myself
without doors in farming, gardening, clearing and manuring land." If we may credit the words
of Bishop Hubert of Quebec written just at this time (in 1794) the new liberties gained by
the habitants did not make the seigneur's task easier. The good bishop makes sweeping charges
of general dishonesty; of attempts to defraud the church of her tithe and the seigneurs of
their dues; of bitter feuds between families and innumerable law suits. In such conditions
Nairne, as a justice of the peace, would have his hands full.

His end was drawing very near. One of his sisters died in 1798. This brought sad thoughts but
he wrote: "I am very thankful to have found in the world connexions who have produced such
regards and sympathys. Time seems not to be going slowly now-a-days but running fast. I hope
we are to have other times and to know one another hereafter." "I must make haste now," he
wrote later, in 1801, "to finish all improvements here that may be possible as I will soon
be finished myself. Crushed already under a load of years of 7 times 10 really I find the last
2 years ... heavier than 20 before that time." "The scenes of this life," he had written to
his old friend and neighbour Malcolm Fraser "are continually varying like the elements, sometimes
cloudy, sometimes sun shine; [it] never lasts long one way or the other till night soon comes
and we must then lie down and die. Therefore all is vanity and vexation of spirit, but God
will help us and most certainly some time or other bless and reward the friendly honest man."

His last letter to his Scottish relations was intended to be a farewell:

     Colonel Nairne to his Sister Miss M. Nairne From Murray Bay, 20th
     April, 1802.

     My Dear Madie,--

     I shall see our friends in the world of spirits probably before any
     of you; whatever darkness we are in here I have always convinced
     myself that we shall meet again in a better place hereafter.

     Although I have enjoyed good health till past 70 years of age, the
     agues of Holland and sometimes excessive fatigue have probably
     weakened parts of my inward machinery that they are now wore out
     and must soon finish their functions. I can have no reason to
     expect to live longer than our father; I am chiefly uneasy that the
     event may occasion grief to my sisters, yet it ought to be less
     felt my being at a distance; a poor affair to grieve when it must
     be all your fates to follow. I am happy that Mr. Ker understands my
     circumstances and my last will, and that he will be so good and so
     able to assist in settling it properly; I wish to follow his ideas
     therein in case of any difficulty, and I am likewise perfectly
     satisfied with all Mr. Ker's accounts with me. I write this letter
     to you to go by the first ship in case I should not be able to
     write later; I do not expect to be able to write to Robie Hepburn
     nor to Mr. Ker; nothing I can tell now from this country can
     entertain them; my mind is taken up with nothing but the
     Friendship, which they know.... So soon as the weather is warmer I
     intend to go to Quebec in order to obtain the best advice: I shall
     not personally be so conveniently situated there, as here. I am
     able yet to go out as far as a bank before the Door and to walk
     through the rooms; indeed the arrangements and conveniences of this
     house with the attendance and attention I receive are all in the
     best manner I can possibly desire; ... it's enough to say that were
     you here I think you would approve of them. Industry and neatness
     prevail and everything nesessary [is] foreseen and provided for. No
     wonder my wife and I agree so well now these thirty-five years as
     she happens to be equal in every moral attribute which I pretend
     to.... We are in friendship with everybody, because we do justice
     impartially and really without vanity have assisted many persons in
     forming farms and providing for the support of familys; although
     thereby not in the way of enriching ourselves it affords perhaps as
     much Satisfaction.

     This place certainly thrives exceedingly; although we may by such
     exertions be recommending ourselves to the Father of all things,
     how poor they appear in my eyes having read lately the Newspapers.
     Most unreasonable are some men in Parliament to find fault with the
     ministry of Pitt and Dundass who have steered the Vessel of the
     State so successfully through such dangerous times and threatening
     appearances. Every Briton I think has reason to be proud of his
     Country which is raised higher than ever before not only in
     national Character but in its prospects of Commerce and Wealth by
     the Peace [the brief Peace of Amiens signed in March, 1802]. What
     prodigious honour and glory has been acquired and bestowed upon our
     Army of Egypt, exertions indeed on the most conspicuous theatre of
     the World and at the most conspicuous period of the world. We
     formerly thought ourselves sort of heroes by conquering Louisbourg
     and Quebec but nothing must be compared to that of Egypt.... The
     French troops have fought much better under their Diacal
     Republican government than under their King's and our troops not
     only fight equally well as formerly, but our Generals and Officers
     are much better writers; never have I read better wrote letters
     than those describing these renown'd events.

     But pray allow me to sink into poetry to help to fill up this
     paper; ... let me transcribe a letter in verse which is handed me
     now by an old Soldier residing near us.[18] He received it from an
     acquaintance of his who is only a private soldier in the 26th
     Regiment. That Regt. is now gone home; ... should it be at
     Edinburgh pray invite James Stevenson to a dram of Whiskey for my
     sake; though I do not know the man we had served together in the
     American War and he shows the idea the private men had of me and
     how a man of a slender education (I believe from Glasgow) can make
     verses. The Canadians here, I believe, have the same opinion though
     they are very far from making verses upon any subject whatever; it
     is much more useful here to cut down trees which they can do with
     great dexterity.

     Quebec, 25th April, 1800.

        My worthy conty, gude Jock Warren,
        Thou's still jocose and ay auld farren,
        Gentle and kind, blythe, frank and free,
        And always unco' gude to me.
        And now thou's sold thy country ware
        And towards hame mean to repair.[19]
        Accept these lines although but weak
        And read them for thy Comrade's sake.
        May plenty still around thee smile
        And God's great help thy foes beguile,
        In Wisdom's path be sure to tread
        And her fair daughter Virtue wed.
        My compliments and love sincere
        To all our friends both here and there,
        But in particular to him
        That's tall in body, long in limb,
        Auld faithful Loyal, Johny Nairne,
        Lang may he count you his ain bairne;
        By his example still be sway'd;
        Be his good precepts still obeyed;
        Revere this good and worthy man
        And always do the best you can.
        This is my wish and expectation,
        God granting you and me salvation.
        We ance were young but now we're auld,
        Oour blood from heat commences cauld,
        A drop of whiskey warms the whole,
        Renews the body, cheers the soul;
        Observing still due moderation,
        In order to prevent vexation,
        Proceeding on with cautious care
        Till Death with his grim face appear;
        Then with a conscience, just and true
        See Heaven's Glory, in your View.

     My neighbour, Mr. Fraser, tells me that by my looks and speaking he
     cannot think me so ill as imagined. You will think the same by my
     writing the above. My distemper is owing to Gravelly Ulcers and it
     is a great chance at my time of life to recover, so [we] should be
     prepared for the worst.

     It is a satisfaction to me to have been able to write this letter,
     such as it is. My thoughts are every day and every night with my
     sisters and [I] figure myself frequently at your fireside. Remember
     I am not to write any more unless I get a great deal better. [I]
     shall refer you to Christine to correspond and to tell you all you
     would wish to know from this country. And now I have nothing but
     Compts. and love to send to all my friends--to Robie Hepburn as my
     oldest and nearest my heart--my blessings to his family, as to the
     Kers and Congaltons. And once more to Anny you and Mary and Mrs.
     Ker and my Polly and Tom. God bless you all. I am truly my dear
     Madie with much affection,

     Yours for aye,

     JOHN NAIRNE.

Nairne was not mistaken in his view that the end was near. He writes about this time to his
physician at Quebec (there was no practitioner at Murray Bay) describing his symptoms and ends:
"Now, dear Doctor, I dare say you think some apologies necessary for my troubling you so particularly
with the complaints of an old man of 71, as his inward machinery is probably wore out and irreparable."
In a last vain hope they took him to Quebec for medical care. But the machinery was, indeed,
"wore out," and at Quebec, on July 14th, 1802, he closed his eyes on a world which, though
it brought him labour and sorrow, he thought to be very good.

Among his own letters is preserved the printed invitation to his funeral:

     Quebec, Wednesday, 14th July, 1802.

     Sir,--

     The favour of your company is requested to attend the Funeral of
     the late Colonel Nairne, from No. 1 Grison Street, on Cape Diamond,
     to the place of interment, on Friday next at one o'clock in the
     afternoon.

All that was most worthy in Quebec attended to do honour to his memory. He was buried in the
Protestant cemetery; long after his body was removed to Mount Hermon Cemetery, to lie beside
his son and grandson--the last of his race.

Nairne played his part with high purpose and integrity. Among his papers at Murray Bay is a
prayer, intended apparently for daily use, in which he asks that he may be vigilant in conduct
and immovable in all good purposes; that he may show courage in danger, patience in adversity,
humility in prosperity. He asks, too, to be made sensible "how little is this world, how great
[are] thy Heavens, and how long will be thy blessed eternity." It is the prayer of a strong
soul facing humbly and reverently the tasks of life.[20] He would have wished to found a community
English speaking and Protestant. But the forces of nature were against him. The few English
speaking people who came in (and they were but a few scattered individuals) for the most part
married French wives. The children held the faith and spoke the tongue which they learned at
their mothers' knees. It was the course of nature, and always we are foolish to quarrel with
nature. A granite monument marks the resting place where the good old man sleeps in the cemetery
at Quebec, but some memorial might well stand at Murray Bay, that those who look out upon the
majestic river, the blue mountains, the smiling valley should have before them a reminder of
the "friendly, honest man" who, a century and a half ago, began to win their heritage from
the wilderness.[21]

[Footnote 13: It may be convenient to state at once the dates of the births and deaths of each
of these children:

Magdalen (Madie) (Mrs. McNicol)  born 1767  died 1839. Christine Nairne                   "
1774    "  1817. John Nairne                        "  1777    "  1799. Mary (Polly) Nairne
"  1782    "  1821. Thomas Nairne                      "  1787    "  1813. ]

[Footnote 14: See Appendix D., p. 277., for a formal memorandum drawn up by Nairne for his
son's guidance.]

[Footnote 15: See Appendix E., p. 279. Two drafts remain at Murray Bay, both copious in length,
and neither like the inscription now to be found at Mount Hermon Cemetery. (See p. 221.) In
the taste of the time inscriptions were expected to give a full account of the career of the
dead man. One of these inscriptions speaks of Nairne's "enjoying as a reward of his services
a gift of Land on the River St. Lawrence. He had alike the merit and the happiness of converting
a wild and uninhabited desert into a flourishing colony of above 1000 inhabitants, who regarded
him as their Tender Friend and Patriarch. He died honoured with the esteem of all who knew
him." The other inscription mentions what, otherwise, we should not have known, that Nairne
received a wound on the Plains of Abraham.

At his father's death Thomas Nairne was the only surviving son. In 1791 the father had written
of this boy, born in 1787 and thus only four years old: "Tom continues very stout but not easy
to manage and [I] am afraid it will be difficult to separate [him] from his mother. He does
not speak a word of English; neither do your sisters Mary (now called Polly) or Anny speak
any other language than French; but I intend to send them all to Quebec next summer, where
it's to be hoped they will soon learn to understand a little English." So to Quebec Tom was
sent to begin his education. By 1798, when only eleven years old, he had gone to the relatives
in Scotland and Nairne's friend, Ker, writes of him: "I think Tommie one of the sweetest tempered
fine boys I ever saw and he will, I doubt not, be the comfort and delight of you all." Polly
was there too--"a very good girl ... of great use to her Aunts to whom she pays every attention."
Tom, like his brother John, was carefully instructed by his father. He must look after himself,
dress, care for his clothes, and keep clean, without troubling others. Especially must he try
to think clearly and speak distinctly--truly a sound beginning of education. His brother's
death in 1799 made him an important person, the pride of his house. "There are many Tams now
in this parish," wrote his father in 1801, "even a part of it is named St. Thomas, all in compliment
to our Tom." At the time of his father's death in 1802, a boy of fifteen, Tom was attending
the Edinburgh High School. Before me lies a coverless account book of octavo size in which
are written by some careful person, in clear round-hand, recipes, scraps of poetry, problems
in arithmetic and geometry, and among other things, "Tom's Expenses, 1796." A quarter at the
High School costs 10/6, "Lattin books," 4/-, school money is 3/-, a ferret 3d., and so on.
His sister Polly's expenses are entered in the same book and that young lady's outlay was more
formidable. Items for the milliner such as "making up a Bonnet. 3/6," (young ladies still wore
bonnets) are frequent. Miss Polly spent 6/- on ear-rings. Once when she took a "Shaise" it
cost her 2/-, while "Chair Hire" is sometimes 1/6 and sometimes reduced to the modest proportions
of 9d. No doubt for her health's sake she bought for 1/- a "Sacred Tincture" which, we may
hope, did her good.

Thomas Nairne was an attractive boy. He lived with his father's executor and friend, James
Ker, an Edinburgh banker, a wise, prudent, far-seeing, man. Mr. Ker was married to Colonel
Nairne's niece and he received Tom as his own child. The boy was the inseparable companion
of Ker's son Alick. Tom won praises on all sides. An Aunt wrote seriously that she had feared
he was too good to live; and she comforted Nairne's grief at his son John's death by the thought
of what Tom will be to him. He is "a happy chearful pleased little fellow always quiet at home"--but
also "happy and at home wherever he goes." So thoughtful, she adds, is he that, entirely on
his own motion, he deems it proper to write to his mother; one of these letters is before me--beautifully
written in a large but well-formed schoolboy hand. "A very promising sweet young man," was
the renewed judgment of his business-like guardian upon Tom in 1803, when he was a boy of only
sixteen. By that time, it was thought that Tom had exhausted the advantages of the Edinburgh
High School. The Edinburgh accent of the day did not suit the taste of his fastidious guardian,
who hoped that in an English school a better manner of speech might be acquired. Tom's cousin
and companion, Alick Ker, a boy a few years older, was going to school at Durham and thither
also went Tom. The lads "are the greatest friends in the world," wrote his watchful aunt; "Alick
does not know how to exist without Tom but Tom is more independent of Alick, for he is not
so shy." In an aunt's, perhaps partial, view Tom was quicker and showed more application than
Alick. "Tom advances with great deliberation in his height," she writes, which was very convenient,
for, since Alick was older, Tom came in for Alick's out-grown clothes and this saved expense.

When the boy's school days were drawing to an end his future course was the topic of much discussion.
Tom's father had wished him to study law, though not to practice it: in Canada, he thought,
there was no lucrative opening for any one trained in the law unless he was made a judge. Old
Malcolm Fraser, Tom's adviser after his father's death, would have had him, for safety's sake,
adopt a civilian life; he was the last male of his house and therefore ought not to be exposed
to a soldier's dangers. Tom's Edinburgh friends wished him to become a Writer to the Signet
or, at any rate, to learn something about business since, as a landed proprietor, he must be
a man of affairs. But the youth took the matter in his own hands. For his father's character
and career he had always a great reverence; soldier's blood was in his veins, and nature had
her way. Tom became a soldier and, when the school days are ended, we find the boy, not yet
eighteen, Lieutenant in the 10th Regiment of Foot. Fraser wrote to Tom protesting against what
he had done and from Maldon Barracks, in Essex, on April 5th, 1805, Tom answers his godfather's
objections. Perhaps to add solemnity to his argument the old man had assumed the tone of a
valetudinarian and Tom replies: "I would fain hope you had no reason for saying you would soon
follow my dear Father. I hope God will spare you to us since he has thought proper to take
my Father to Himself. Your loss would be irreparable, I having no other person to protect my
mother and sisters as I have chosen a line of life in which I may never have the fortune of
being near them." In spite of Fraser's appeal, Tom's resolution to remain in the army was unshaken.

It was an amazing era in Europe and well may Fraser have feared for the young Lieutenant's
safety. While the boy was writing, Napoleon Bonaparte, with the lustre fresh upon him of a
recent gorgeous coronation at Paris as Emperor of the French, was gathering at Boulogne a great
army and hundreds of small boats with which this army might, he hoped, be thrown across into
England within twenty-four hours. That country was very nervous but, for some reason, Tom's
regiment, instead of being kept at home to meet the invader, was sent to Gibraltar. Here he
remained inactive while world-shaking events were happening, while Trafalgar and Austerlitz
and Jena were fought, and Pitt stricken with "the noblest of all sorrows," grief for the seeming
ruin of his country, told those about him to "roll up the map of Europe," and died heartbroken.
Not unnaturally at such a time Gibraltar seemed dull; a miserable place, Tom thought, a prison
on a large scale. His friends wrote him letters containing an abundance of good advice, all
of which he took with becoming modesty. A letter from Fraser of this character is still excellent
reading; his counsels to the young soldier have added weight when we remember that the author
was with Wolfe at Louisbourg and Quebec and now, nearly fifty years later, was still active
in the militia forces of Canada.

     Malcolm Fraser to Lieut. Thomas Nairne

     From Murray Bay, 7th October, 1805.

     My Dear Godson,--

     I had the very great pleasure of receiving yours of the 5th April
     last at this place on the 15th September and as your sister Miss
     Christine has wrote you I must refer you to her for the news of
     Murray Bay. She left this for Quebec a few days ago and every thing
     continues to go well here and I hope will do so. Your mother
     improves your estate daily and if she lives ten years I am
     convinced that she will make it worth double what it was ten years
     ago and if after a peace, when I hope you will have a company, you
     can get exchanged into a Regiment serving in this Country without
     losing rank, you will by that means have an opportunity of
     examining your own affairs here and it will give the greatest
     pleasure to your mother and other relations and friends within your
     native country, and particularly to me, should I happen to live so
     long. Christine has I suppose wrote that you are now an uncle, your
     sister Madie having been delivered of a fine boy about two months
     ago, and I have the pleasure to tell you that she and her husband
     seem to be very happy and, tho' I did not at first approve of the
     match, that I am now quite reconciled to it as are all her friends
     here, as well as those in Scotland as far as I can learn.

     Now as to yourself: tho' I had some objections to your going into
     the army so very young, yet now that you have become a soldier, I
     hope you will continue to follow the military life with ardour and
     Emulation as far as lays in your power and that you will endeavour
     to employ your spare time in acquiring the various accomplishments
     necessary to become a good officer. I would by no means advise you
     to avoid such innocent pleasures and amusements as are suitable to
     your age and rank. But I pray you beware of being led astray or
     going into any excess. I am very glad to find that the army is now
     in general much less addicted to (what was falsely called) the
     pleasures of the bottle than in former times, but you may still
     meet with temptations in that way which I hope you'll guard
     against. Try to resemble your late worthy father in temperance and
     moderation as well as in punctuality and exactness in doing your
     duty with strict subordination to your superiors, particularly to
     the commanding officer of your corps, as it is by his
     recommendation, commonly, that those under his immediate command
     may expect promotion. You must by all means avoid getting into any
     parties or factions against him, which I have known sometimes to
     have unfortunately happened to others; but there can be hardly
     anything more detrimental to the service as well as dishonourable
     to the corps wherein it takes place. I would also recommend to you
     ..., in case you are engaged in any action, to beware of passing
     judgment on the conduct of your Commanders, till at least you are
     of an age and have acquired experience to entitle you to give your
     opinion, as it is very common for a young man to be mistaken. You
     must also avoid any dispute or difference with your brother
     officers, for tho' there are unhappily some cases where a gentleman
     must vindicate his honour yet where I have known such things
     happen they might have been prevented with honour if the parties
     had not allowed their passions to get the better of their reason;
     and you must remember there is never honour to be acquired by being
     quarrelsome, but the reverse, and that your life ought now to be
     devoted to the service of your King and country. I know you will
     not be sparing of it when occasion requires.

     I would also recommend to you to read useful books when you have
     time and to acquire a competent knowledge of History, both Ancient
     and Modern, especially that of the country in whose service you
     are engaged, as also such books as treat of your profession; and to
     pay particular attention to the lives and actions of those who have
     distinguished themselves in its service, who you will find to have
     been in general as remarkable for their moral, as for their
     military characters; and I hope you will endeavour to imitate them
     and, tho' you may not acquire the rank, you must remember that you
     cannot become a good general or even a good officer without first
     acquiring a competent knowledge of your profession. For this
     purpose (tho' I never had any proper knowledge of those matters
     myself yet I am sensible of my deficiency) I would have you study
     and read such books as treat of fortification and encampments; and
     as you are still very young I imagine you may soon acquire a
     competent knowledge by such reading, suitable to avail yourself of
     it on any emergency.

     I must now recommend you to keep those who may be under your
     command in that degree of subordination and obedience which the
     service requires. But you must never forget that your inferiors,
     even the Private Man who serves in the ranks, is your fellow
     soldier and fellow-man, and that you are bound to show him every
     attention and humanity in your power. This was one of the many good
     qualities for which your father was remarkable, for which he was
     beloved by all ranks; and I hope you will imitate him. I must now
     conclude by recommending to you to let me hear from you once a
     year, at least, or oftener if an opportunity offers. Nothing can
     give more pleasure than to hear good accounts of you to

     Your affectionate godfather,

     MALCOLM FFRASER.

     In short you must never forget that you may at times become
     responsible for the lives and honour of those under your command as
     well as for your own, and, it may even happen, for that of your
     King and Country, in some degree, and that you are to act
     accordingly. All this with more and much better you may read or
     hear from others; but I flatter myself that you will not think the
     less of it as coming from me.

It must be admitted that the soldier's ideal in that age for the British army was as high as
our own. We are accustomed to think that a hundred years ago drunkenness was hardly accounted
a vice. Perhaps it was not in civil life, but in the army, in young Nairne's time, sobriety
was the rule. Writing on May 20th, 1807, he says that few in the army resort to drink, as a
pleasure, even at Gibraltar, where wine is cheap and plentiful; the allowance in the regiment
after dinner is but one-third of a bottle, and only now and then when there are guests is it
usual to depart from this allowance. The deadly dullness and idleness of Gibraltar were its
chief defects, the young officer thought.

There had been futile talk of peace. On August 13th, 1806, Ker wrote to Murray Bay from Edinburgh:
"We expect to hear of Peace between this country and France. The Earl of Lauderdale has been
sent to Paris to treat. But what sort of peace can we make with Bona Parte?" What sort indeed?
Peace was not to come during Tom Nairne's lifetime. He was getting ready meanwhile for an enlarged
career. At Gibraltar he pressed his guardian to purchase him a captaincy. Those were the bad
old days when promotion in the army went largely by purchase and Tom had been Lieutenant for
little more than a year when, at a cost of £1,000, Ker bought for him the desired rank; he
attained to this dignity at the age of nineteen. The purchase strained his resources severely
but his family got some comfort out of the thought that he was advancing. There was an excellent
library at Gibraltar and he had good opportunities for self-improvement of which he promised
to avail himself. But the promise was hardly realized. At any rate Tom gave a very poor account
of his own doings for, after he had returned to England, he wrote to his mother (from Chelmsford
Barracks on March 19th, 1808) a not very flattering account of himself at Gibraltar:

     Only figure to yourself a rock, about two miles and a half in
     length and scarcely the fifth part of that in breadth, and then
     most likely you will not be so much astonished at my making the
     above comparison [of Gibraltar to a prison], from which you may
     wisely suppose that those unfortunate beings who had the misfortune
     of being shut up in it led a most inactive and stupid life....
     However, to give the Devil his due, I must not omit to observe that
     it contained a most excellent Library, by which means officers
     might improve themselves greatly and spend their leisure hours to
     their credit, provided they were desirous of doing so; particularly
     as nothing existed in that place to take off their attention from
     study; and I make no doubt but some young men had the sense to
     profit by that favourable opportunity. At the same time [I] am
     extremely sorry to inform you your promising son did not, in any
     shape whatever, and am much concerned to add that he spent a very
     idle life whilst there, doing nothing else the live-long day than
     riding or lounging; which I presume you will think was a complete
     disgrace to any man of a liberal education, in which I perfectly
     agree with you.... I sincerely hope and trust that he [your son]
     will mend as he becomes older and wiser.

Tom confesses himself at this time "a complete idle, good for nothing fellow," but he disarms
his mother's reproaches when he adds that he is chiefly occupied in thinking of her and of
his large estate in Canada where he longs to be. It had for him a new attraction, since his
cousin Alick Ker was just going out to Canada, a Captain on the staff of Sir James Craig, the
new Governor, who was related to the Kers. For the time Tom's family was content that he should
be at Gibraltar, where he was safe, and where, too, as Ker prudently says, "he lives cheaper
than he could in England, has a genteel [how the age loved that word!] society and the use
of a large Library." He rode on the sandy beach; sometimes, until the coming of the French
troops, the British officers were allowed to ride into Spain.

These diversions all came to an end on August 26th, 1807, when Tom turned his back on Gibraltar
for good. Incredible as it may now seem, the voyage to England took nearly a month; he arrived
on the 24th of September. The young man had been turning over seriously his future prospects.
In a letter to his mother he makes some enquiry about his own probable income from his estate.
While protesting that he is himself "a Devilish ugly fellow" he has some thought of getting
his mother to choose a "rib" for him and, presumptuous as it may seem, she must be handsome.
He was thinking now of a civilian career. At Gibraltar he had found that he was short-sighted,
and long sight seemed a necessity to a soldier. But Fraser, to whom he poured out his woe,
answered that short-sightedness need not interfere with his efficiency; Colonel Nairne had
been short-sighted and yet, withal, a successful officer; the question of sight would matter
only if he was in command, in face of the enemy, and, even then, he could get assistance. Fraser
advised him to stay in the army until he attained the rank of a field officer, when he might
retire on half pay to his estate at Murray Bay, "extensive but not valuable in proportion."
In truth Tom, tired of the army, was home-sick. He says to Fraser that he is "feeling an indescribable
degree of anxiety to see my dearest mother, sisters, and yourself, not forgetting to include
my estate, where I often figure myself, strutting about like unto a mighty Bashaw; which peaceful
idea I sincerely hope will be realized, some day or other, if it pleases God to spare me so
long; ... my only desire is now that blessed time may be near at hand or even that I could
afford to set out to Murray Bay without any further delay. However it is proper to drown that
wish, for the present, amongst the noise of arms, as the whole world is up against us, and
my assistance, though little enough, God knows, may be of some use. At all events it would
be tasting the sweets of this life before I had ever felt the miseries of it." He ends by asking
that nothing of which he is possessed may be spared "towards making Alick Ker pass a pleasant
time in Canada."

The fear which the old aunt had ingenuously expressed that Tom might prove too good to live
was happily belied, for he appears to have been a sufficiently idle young fellow, though, as
his watchful guardian wrote, "a good economist"; the same guardian thought this extremely opportune,
since "Bona Parte," with all Europe under his heel, was making it lively for the fortunate
islands, and forcing them to levy a tax of 10% on incomes. "This tax," writes the indignant
banker, "is one of the many blessed fruits of the French Revolution, and of the horrible tyranny
and perfidy of their rascally Emperor."

Not long did Tom remain in England. Soon he was off with his regiment to Sicily, at this period
garrisoned by British troops, and saved by a strip of inviolate sea from the grasp of the master
of Italy. The sojourn in Sicily must have been dull. He was stationed at Syracuse, but his
school training had not gone deep enough to interest him in Thucydides's marvellous story of
the siege of that place or in the antiquities of Sicily. The chief surviving record of his
sojourn in Sicily is an account from his washerwoman, "Mrs. De Lass," dated at Syracuse the
8th of March, 1809. His distaste for the army was now complete. His sister Polly had ended
her school days and, by a fortunate circumstance, had gone out to Canada "under the protection
of Sir William Johnstone's lady" and to Canada Tom was himself resolved to go. Early in 1810,
he was back in Edinburgh, taking a few weeks' holiday with the Kers, resolved to go on half
pay at once, if possible, or, failing this, to sell out, and after a delay of fourteen or fifteen
months, to go home to Murray Bay. The intervening time he intended to spend in the study of
farming; he had almost completed a plan for going into Berwickshire to reside with a farmer
and thus equip himself as a land owner. His friends thought him changeable. "The Captain,"
wrote Ker on the 30th of March, 1810, "is a sweet tempered good young man but he wants steadiness....
I fear that after trying to be a farmer at Murray Bay he may tire and want to return to the
army." So serious was Tom about his future bucolic life that he wrote to his sister Christine,
as he had written before to his mother, to ask whether she did not think he should look round
for a wife; such a companion would be necessary, he thought, if he settled down as a farmer
in Canada. We can imagine that the proposition, from a youth of twenty-three, caused some dismay
among the occupants of the Manor House at Murray Bay; but Tom was soon professing himself something
of a woman hater and he never married.

His return to Murray Bay followed quickly. By a fortunate, or perhaps, in view of the tragic
fate awaiting poor Tom, unfortunate, chance, instead of going on half-pay, he was able to exchange
from the 10th Regiment of Foot to the Newfoundland Regiment. The chief reason for the exchange
was that the Newfoundland Regiment was ordered to Canada, where Tom could get leave of absence
to pay a long visit to Murray Bay and learn how its life would suit him. So, in the autumn
of 1810, the young man was in Canada, which he had not seen since childhood. To Murray Bay
he soon paid a flying visit; the longer leave of absence would come later. His competent, busy,
prudent and affectionate old mother welcomed him with open arms. He had thought of himself
as a young Bashaw strutting round among the people of his seigniory. No doubt they were much
interested to see the young Captain; but his duties soon called him back to Quebec, from which
place on December 3rd, 1810, he writes to his mother:

     I have this moment finished drinking tea, all alone.... You have
     totally spoiled my relish for anything except for Murray Bay; my
     notions of things in general appear to be entirely changed. Murray
     Bay while viewed only in perspective afforded me a sort of pleasing
     reflection; but now that I have a nearer view and enjoyed its
     comforts my ideas have experienced a complete revolution. So you
     see what your society and most kind loving treatment have effected.
     You may therefore rest assured that no stone will be left unturned
     to try to get back in order that we may remain together in this
     world as long as it may please the Almighty to permit us. On my
     arrival here at 2 o'clock p.m. I proceeded to the Upper Town in
     order to look out for a bed, concerning the getting of which I had
     entertained my doubts being, tout ensemble, a queer figure,
     having on my covered handkerchief, thick great coat, Canadian
     boots, and round hat; in short at the first essay I was refused by
     a "No room in the house, Sir," a common reply given to those whose
     unfortunate appearance happens not exactly to please the harsh and
     scrutinizing eye of the lord of the mansion. I then turned my
     frozen steps towards this house of hospitality where after
     explaining mon besoin to the waiter he scrupulously and
     critically eyed me from top to toe, from head to foot, then turned
     on his heel to go to his master and report accordingly. During his
     absence I commenced a serious inspection of self to find if
     possible what had attracted his attention so pointedly towards my
     toes, when I observed the cause to be the silver chain of my
     over-alls peeping out from under my great-coat; which, no doubt,
     was the reason of having received a favourable answer; for on his
     re-entrance he asked me to sit down and I finally engaged a room.

On January 9th, 1811, Tom wrote to say that a man had arrived from Murray Bay but without letters:

     "What the Devil has come over those sisters of mine? Pray are they
     still behind the stove patching their old stockings? No time
     forsooth--Rediculous--Could not the lazy wretches have only wrote
     me the scratch of a pen merely to wish me a good New Year? Mr.
     McCord to be sure mumbles something about time; it is highly
     diverting to have country lasses talk about want of time,
     particularly those I am now speaking of, unless they have greatly
     altered for the better since I saw them last, and turned their
     hands to cow-keeping, tending of poultry, or something of that
     description; but I'll be bound for it they still employ themselves
     with nothing else except perching behind the stove, growling, and
     driving carriols."

He exhorts his sisters to take long walks in the fine cold weather. Then he dips into politics.
There is to be an election at Murray Bay for the county of Northumberland and Mr. Bouchette,
a Canadian, had asked for the interest of Tom as seigneur. He regrets that he cannot himself
offer to stand since he is unsettled in plans, "and totally unacquainted with the language
of the country"; a strange comment on the fact that in early youth he had known only French.
The habitant had recently secured the right to vote but already pleased himself in exercising
it. Though, as Tom says, "Dr. La Terrière of the adjacent seigniory of Les Eboulements, the
Curés, and the Devil knows who" all wished Bouchette elected and Tom was himself anxious that
a habitant should not be chosen, Bouchette failed and a habitant was sent to Quebec to represent
the district in the Legislature.

Tom's letters written during the winter of 1810-1811 are full of the gossip and events of the
time in Quebec. He is now obviously keen for self-improvement, and, in the manner of his father,
for the improvement of others also; while congratulating Polly on the better style of her letters
which are now "sprightly", he corrects her spelling. Among other things he is trying to complete
a proper inscription for his father's tomb. He sends for the title deeds of his property in
order that he may do homage to the governor Sir James Craig, and shows a lively interest in
the management of his estate. His father's old friend, Colonel Fraser, was visiting Quebec
which, more than fifty years earlier, he had helped to win for Britain but where now, it is
somewhat sad to think, he has, as Tom says, very few acquaintances. So the young Captain spends
two or three hours daily with the Colonel and finds that he has many interesting subjects to
talk with him about. He drives with him into the country. He enquires about a house in Quebec
which his mother had some thought of buying and talks of a trip to Montreal to buy a horse
to send to Murray Bay. In the letters home Christine, "Rusty" is the special object of his
teasing. She has been accustomed to spend the winters at Quebec, but is now at Murray Bay,
and he asks how she likes the dull country at this season. "She never says anything about it,
which is in her favour.... I trust that through the means of Picquet you contrive to keep her
rusty dollars moving." Tom's absence from Murray Bay was soon to end. On March, 23rd, 1811,
he wrote joyously that he has got leave of absence for six months, and is coming "to my own
dear Murray Bay." Christine had been dangerously ill and he is naturally anxious to be at home.

So behold the young seigneur disporting himself at Murray Bay in the spring of 1811. Old Malcolm
Fraser, at the manor of Mount Murray just across the bay, kept a watchful eye on the godson
who, he had begun to fear, was not proving wholly satisfactory. The cause of Fraser's misgiving
is not clear but he lectured Tom with tactful insight. Of his own career the young officer
was now beginning to take a new view. During the long holiday at Murray Bay he had time to
taste its pleasures and to learn its chief interests. He went out fishing and shooting; he
sailed and rowed on the river; he occupied himself in the daily business of the seigniory,
for which his competent mother had so long cared; she was now building a mill which would probably
add to Tom's revenues. He made friends with the curé Mr. Le Courtois. This gentleman, a French
émigré, who found a refuge in Canada, had thrown himself with great devotion into the rough
life of a missionary among the scattered peoples, Canadians and Indians alike, of his remote
parish. He was a man of culture and remained always a valued counsellor of the Protestant family
in the Manor House.[22] But, in spite of all the interests and friendships at Murray Bay, Tom
soon found that the little community hardly needed him. Every thing was well looked after,
prosperous and promising. He would be only a fifth wheel to the coach and, before long, he
had made up his mind that he had better stick to his military career.

Without doubt Tom was a young man of winning character. Malcolm Fraser, having studied him
and lectured him, reconsidered his unfavourable estimate, and wrote to Ker on the 10th of October,
1811: "I think him incapable of any immoral or mean action; ... he seems to hearken to the
lectures of his old Godfather tho' not perhaps always delivered in the most delicate Style."
To his mother he was a tender son, and for his father's memory he showed a filial reverence.
One of his first acts on arriving in Canada had been to arrange for the erection in Quebec
of a proper monument in his memory--something that others had long talked about and which Tom
brought to completion, but which has, alas, long since disappeared. Tom was in truth a man
of action, and to action in the larger world he now turned. Towards the end of September, 1811,
at the time when, to-day, Murray Bay's summer sojourners turn reluctantly homeward from the
crisp autumn air and from the mountain sides beginning to show the season's glowing tints,
Captain Nairne set out from the Manor House to join his regiment at Quebec. He had in mind
a plan to go back to Europe and to get to Spain or Portugal for a share in the Peninsular War
then raging. Fraser, now in his 79th year, writes on October 10th, 1811, his advice that the
young man "should continue on full pay till he attains the rank of Major, by brevet or otherwise,
and then, if he chooses, he may exchange and retire on the half of whatever full pay he holds
at the time, and as soon as such exchange can be accomplished with decency and propriety."
War with the United States was now impending, hardly a fitting time for a young man to withdraw
from the army, and Fraser points out that "in the present situation of public affairs and at
his age and fitness for service" Tom's retirement would be hardly decent. "Next to my own nearest
connections," he continues, "my chief attention will be paid to Captain Nairne and the other
connections of his late Father with whom I had the happiness to live in Friendship and intimacy
from our first meeting (1757) till his Decease (1802) and I trust we shall meet again in a
future state."

The young man thus returned to his military duties with his old friend's benediction and restored
confidence. But to the family the plan for a military career was a sore disappointment. His
sister Christine, its woman of the world, and the one most in touch with the Canadian society
of the time, was keen that Tom should live at Murray Bay. To her entreaties he answers on October
6th, 1811, that there is no earthly use for him at Murray Bay where everything is so well looked
after that his presence would do more harm than good. Time would hang heavy on his hands if
he were always employed in fishing, shooting and navigating the river. It is better, he says,
that he should continue in his present position and he intends to withdraw his application
for half pay. When Christine returns to the charge and urges that Murray Bay is not to be despised
the young man retorts that he never said it was and answers her with some dignity:

     It will ill become me to despise the favourite residence of a
     person for whom I have at all times testified the greatest love
     esteem and respect. Indeed I think my behaviour hitherto might have
     spared me such a severe remark.... You charge me with being
     inconsistent and changeable, in which opinion you are not, I
     believe, singular; but until you point out to me where I have been
     so, I shall till then, plead not guilty in my own mind.

War was now brooding over Canada--the fratricidal War of 1812. But for the time Quebec was
gay. There was hardly a week without a private ball, Tom wrote in February, 1812; and the assemblies,
dinners and suppers were innumerable. He chaffs his sister Christine, whose rheumatic pains
had apparently become a kind of family joke, and says that, since they are the enemies of high
kicking, her inability longer for this pastime "is partly the cause of her sounding a retreat
to the peaceful shades and grottoes of Murray Bay." Polly, the other unmarried sister, was
more content to be at Murray Bay, with results that led to a family tragedy as we shall see
later. Her brother pictures her driving his nag with her carriole through the country; so reckless
is she that she is sure to run down some one. "Does she, proud and high, still continue hopping
away to the country weddings?" His request that Pope's Works and The Spectator be sent to him
seems to indicate a serious turn of mind. He is sending to Murray Bay The Lady of the Lake
and The Lay of the Last Minstrel whose middle-aged author was just turning from poetry to win
unprecedented success as a writer of fiction. In the spring he goes out shooting for snipe
nearly every day; and he sends to Murray Bay for his fishing tackle. When a fellow officer
falls ill he sends him down to Murray Bay for a month.

Soon came a more active life. War with the United States was near and Canada was getting ready.
In May, 1812, Malcolm Fraser, led to Quebec from Murray Bay and the intervening parishes what
militia he could muster. At the same time, he was made a commissioner to administer the oaths
of allegiance: in extreme old age the veteran was ready again to do what he could. The Newfoundland
regiment, to which Tom belonged, was ordered to the interior. The storm cloud drew near and
burst on June 19th, 1812, in the form of a declaration of war by the United States on Great
Britain. The Americans intended to pour troops into Upper Canada, but sparsely settled at that
time, and quickly to occupy it. The frontier on the Niagara River was the chief danger point
and the Newfoundland Regiment was sent up to Lake Ontario to aid in the defence. On July 3rd,
1812, Tom writes from Kingston in Upper Canada. The news has reached him that war has been
declared; and already, busy with the task of placing men and supplies where they will be most
needed, he has been the length of Lake Ontario in the Royal George; staying two days at York,
now Toronto; going thence to Niagara and then sailing back to Kingston. At Kingston there are
1,000 militia and Carleton Island, (where Tom's father had commanded in the War of the American
Revolution) has been taken by the British--an inglorious success for its garrison consisted
of but three veterans and some women. The adjacent Indians, says the young Captain, "are anxious
to be at the Yankees with their Toma-hawks." Altogether some exciting campaigns were in prospect
and Tom was glad that his family was "snug at Murray Bay."

There, remote and isolated, they seemed indeed safe--so safe that, to share the security, a
general descent of their friends seemed imminent. At Quebec there was, for a time, something
like a panic. "Every one here," wrote Mrs. Hale to Miss Nairne "is in a complete state of anxiety
and suspense, not at all knowing whether we shall be attacked, or what may become of us. I
have just now seen Colonel Fraser, who assures me I shall be welcome at your mother's house,
in case we should be obliged to leave Quebec. [He] advised my writing for fear you should have
applications from other quarters.... Many ladies are going to England.... My spirits are so
depressed that I cannot pretend to amuse you with any anecdotes." Murray Bay offered its hospitality
with great heartiness and Mr. Hale wrote, "I believe all Quebec mean to move towards you if
necessary, so you must prepare."

Quebec was in a flutter of successive excitements, now certain that it was invulnerable, now
fearing an immediate descent of the enemy, and always longing for peace. In England the Orders
in Council which provoked the war were now revoked, and Malcolm Fraser wrote that this must
soon bring peace in America, especially since New England and New York were against the war.
Miss Nairne's friend in Quebec, Judge Bowen[23], wrote to her in November, 1812, announcing
the armistice for six months, arranged some time before, and assuring the ladies at Murray
Bay that all cause for anxiety was now past,--an illusive hope for the armistice was not ratified
by President Madison and the war went on. We get echoes of social jealousies that may now amuse
us. Sir James Craig, the late Governor, had repressed sternly the aspirations of the French
element and had been specially friendly with the Nairne circle; he was indeed a cousin of the
Nairnes' relative by marriage, James Ker. But now with Sir George Prevost as Governor things
were changed. Sir George came from Halifax and Quebec society looked with green-eyed jealousy
upon his "Halifax people." "They are not the right sort," Judge Bowen wrote to Christine Nairne:

     It will be long before we meet a staff like Sir James Craig's
     gentlemanly men.... The castle affords no delight but to the
     Halifax people. They are all Gods, the Quebecers all Devils. As for
     me I have no desire to be deified.... Would you believe it Pierre
     Bedard [a French Canadian leader whom Sir James Craig had clapped
     into prison] is now Judge of the Court of King's Bench at Three
     Rivers. Would that poor Sir James[24] could raise his head to take
     a view of the strange scenes daily occurring here; but it is better
     he should be spared the Loathsome sight. What it will end in I dare
     scarcely express.

In these days there was ceaseless anxiety at Murray Bay. "We are all here in a complete state
of suspense," wrote Christine Nairne, "... My brother is now in Upper Canada doing duty as
a marine officer on board the Royal George. We are in the utmost anxiety about him but on the
Almighty we rely for preservation in these horrid times." Echoes came of stirring events. Tom
wrote of General Brock's succeeds in capturing Detroit and with it the American General Hull
and his whole army. A little later the Detroit garrison was sent to Montreal and Captain Nairne,
doing duty on the Royal George, carried General Hull--"the extirpating General" he called him
in view of dire threats that Hull had made as to what he should do--with 200 prisoners from
Niagara to Kingston and then in batteaux down the River St. Lawrence on the way to Montreal,
through whose streets the Canadian militia marched their prisoners to the strains of "Yankee
Doodle." Elated with the success against General Hull, Tom now expected to hear any day that
the American fort at the mouth of the Niagara River had been taken by General Brock. He heard
a much sadder tale. Instead of awaiting attack the Americans became the aggressors and crossed
the river into Canada. In a successful attempt to dislodge them from Queenston Heights the
gallant Brock was slain. The invaders were driven back; but all Canada mourned for Brock. Mrs.
Bowen wrote to Christine Nairne, "I am sure you will have deeply felt the loss of poor General
Brock. He was always a great favourite of yours as well as mine. Salter Mountain spoke in the
highest terms of him in his sermon last Sunday."

As the war became more grim in character Captain Nairne formed a fixed resolve to see it through
to the end. On October 5th, 1812, he writes from Kingston that in response to his former request
he had just received notice of having been put on half pay. With this release he might now
have retired to the serenity of Murray Bay. But, even though he had not changed his mind, this
would have been to turn his back on fighting when men were most needed. So when Captain Wall
of the 49th Regiment broke his leg, and was thus rendered unfit for service, with him Nairne
effected an exchange. "I could not reconcile myself to the idea of sneaking down to Murray
Bay and forsaking my post at the present critical period," he wrote to Fraser. That old soldier
was delighted at Tom's spirit and made this note at the foot of the letter which announced
this action:

     Point Fraser, [Murray Bay], Oct. 23rd, 1812: I do hereby certify
     that my Godson Captain Thomas Nairne has, as I think, acted as
     becomes him and very much to my satisfaction--Malcolm ffraser.

From Prescott on the 29th of October, 1812, Tom wrote to his mother of his delight at being
once more a regular "in that distinguished old corps the 49th." It was indeed a fine regiment.
Brock had led it in North Holland and in 1801 it had been on board the fleet at Copenhagen
with Hyde Parker and Nelson; it is now the Berkshire Regiment and the name "Queenston" where
its commander, Brock, fell, is on its flag. Though a soldier not a sailor, Tom had now one
gunboat and three armed batteaux under his command, and, when writing, he had just arrived
at Prescott with the American prisoners taken in the gallant action at Queenston where Brock
was killed. His tone is serious and tender. "When the war is over I trust in God we shall all
have a happy meeting again at Murray Bay, perhaps never more to part during our stay in this
world." It was now his plan that if he should outlive the war he would go to Edinburgh, find
a wife and settle himself on his property without loss of time. A few days later, on November
15th, he writes from Kingston of a lively incident in which he has taken part. With six schooners
and an armed tug, the Oneida, of 18 guns, all full of troops, the Americans had appeared before
the place. At 4 o'clock on the morning of the 10th the adjutant of the 49th came into Tom's
barrack room to arouse him with the news that the enemy was thought to be landing a force five
or six miles above the town. "He lit my candle," says Tom, "and left. I immediately jumped
out of bed, dressed myself in a devil of a hurry and sallied forth to the Barrack yard where
I found three Companies of the 49th under arms, Gunners preparing matches and artillery horses
scampering out of the yards with field pieces." He was soon sent to hold a bridge about three
miles west of the town. The ships kept up a fierce cannonade for some time but it was so briskly
returned that in the end they drew away having lost four men. But they had command of the lake,
a supremacy not to be challenged until a British Commodore, Sir James Yeo, arrived in the following
summer.

In his letters at this time Nairne speaks of his heavy expenses and says that even if the opportunity
came to visit Murray Bay he could not go for lack of money. So he begs his mother to build
all the mills and houses she can, and thus to make the profits which he sorely needs. He complains
of hearing from home so rarely: "You have only wrote once, I believe, since I came to the Upper
Country. What in the name of wonder are you all about? I hope Yankey Doodle has not run off
with you. I am sure there can be no complaints of my being negligent in this way."

The scene changed rapidly. Early in February, 1813, Nairne was sent to Niagara. Here for a
time he was stationed at Fort George. The Americans were now menacing Fort Erie on the Canadian
side of the Niagara River. But things were looking well for the British. On January 22nd the
British Colonel Procter defeated the American General Winchester at Frenchtown near Detroit
and made him and 500 of his men prisoners. Now young Nairne talked even of "extirpating" General
Harrison whom the English were attacking in what is now the state of Ohio. But again high hopes
were dashed. General Harrison succeeded in forcing the British to evacuate Detroit; then he
invaded Canada, and before the campaign of 1813 was over he defeated the British badly at the
river Thames in what is now Western Ontario. Meanwhile about Niagara there was some lively
campaigning. In March Nairne describes an exciting night journey in sleighs from Fort George
to Chippewa near Niagara Falls where an American landing was feared. Echoes of more distant
wars reach this remote frontier. This was the winter of Napoleon's terrible retreat from Moscow
and word comes, "glorious news certainly if true," that 140,000 French have been captured by
the Russians.

Nearer home the chronicle was less glorious. The American fleet appeared before York (Toronto),
burned the Parliament Buildings and public records, and carried off even the church plate,
and the books from the library, of Upper Canada's capital, acts avenged by the burning of Washington
later in the war. Flushed with success, the Americans now prepared to attack Fort George in
overwhelming force. The 49th, Nairne's regiment, were the chief defenders. The attack came
on May 27th, 1813. There was sharp and bloody fighting. Greatly outnumbered, the British were
beaten; so hastily did they evacuate the fort that Nairne and others lost their personal effects.
He writes, somewhat ruefully, that he has now only the clothes on his back and his watch, a
purse, a family ring, and some trinkets. But this had its compensations; now he could carry
everything in a haversack and blanket. Even paper, pens and ink are hardly to be got; he is
writing on the last bit of paper he is likely to have for some time.

For many weeks the young man took his share in this campaigning in the Niagara peninsula. The
British headquarters were by this time at Burlington Heights at the head of Lake Ontario, half
way between Fort George and York, the ruined capital. By June the British had turned on the
foe with vigour. On June 6th they rather stumbled into victory at Stoney Creek, capturing two
American Generals, Winder and Chandler. On June 7th a British squadron, under Sir James Yeo,
appeared off Burlington Heights, bombarded the American camp on the shore at Forty Mile Creek
and compelled a retreat towards Fort George. Soon the British were menacing the enemy in Fort
George itself. Nairne's letters, watched for, we may be sure, at Murray Bay with breathless
interest, recount the incidents of the campaign. At Beaver Dam, only a dozen miles or so from
Fort George, Lieutenant Fitzgibbon of Nairne's regiment, the 49th, entrapped an advancing party
of Americans and, by the clever use of 200 Indian allies, filled them with such dread of being
surrounded and massacred by the savages that nearly 600 Americans surrendered to little more
than one-third of their number. These same wild Indians in their war paint were enough, Nairne
thought, "to frighten the Black Deil himsel'," and their proximity in the campaign is one of
many causes for which he thanks Heaven that the plague of war is so far removed from Murray
Bay; even if it lasted for years, it would still not reach that remote haven, he says. Meanwhile
Murray Bay can help him. Two pairs of socks, one flannel and one linen shirt, have been the
modest increases to his wardrobe since the hasty exit from Fort George many weeks before. He
begs his sisters to make him some shirts and socks, but not many, since on the marches, usually
made at night, he has to carry all his belongings on his own back. The charge of a too elaborate
transport service sometimes brought against the British army in modern campaigns seems to have
no place in the War of 1812. The British, few in number and defending an immense area, had
to do killing work. Nairne says that his men were able only rarely even to take off their accoutrements.

With the arrival of Yeo's squadron the war was again half military, half naval. Yeo was a brilliant
young officer and the remote waters of Lake Ontario witnessed some clever naval tactics. The
small fleets were evenly matched. Chauncey, the American commander, was very cautious and would
not fight unless he could get the advantage of his longer range of guns, while Yeo, if he fought
at all, preferred to fight at close quarters; so they manoeuvred for position, each declaring
that the other could not be brought to bay. On August 3rd, 1813, Nairne wrote from Burlington
Heights to Malcolm Fraser. In an earlier letter that veteran had expressed the desire of dancing
at Tom's wedding and Tom had told him, with the prophetic saving clause "should I outlive this
war," that to see his friend of eighty years dancing would be a considerable inducement to
marry. He hopes that they may soon discuss the war "over a good bottle of your Madeira at Mount
Murray."

He calls Burlington Heights the stronghold of Upper Canada. "The situation we have chosen is
by nature a strong position being bounded on the east by Burlington bay, on the south by a
commanding battery, ditch and parapet, this being the only side bounded by the mainland; on
the west by a morass and creek; on the north by the continuation of this same creek, which
here discharges itself into Burlington bay. The height of the land above the level of the water
all round is upwards of 100 feet and the only side therefore necessary to fortify is the south,
which I assure you is pretty strongly so." Here was the chief British supply depôt and Nairne
had just been sent thither to aid in repelling a menace from the American fleet. He had brought
his force from Ten Mile Creek, in boats, on the open lake, and the journey, lasting all day,
was ticklish enough. All the time the American fleet was in pursuit and it reached the narrow
gateway to Burlington Bay only an hour and a half after Captain Nairne entered. The enemy intended
to storm the heights, and landed 800 men for that purpose; but finding the position too strong,
they re-embarked their force at daylight on August 1st, and bore away for York (Toronto) where
they wrought new havoc in that undefended and "much to be pitied town."

On August 20th Nairne writes, still from Burlington Heights. This, his last letter, gives a
dramatic account of a running fight between the rival fleets, in the dark, illuminated, however,
by the flashes from their cannon:

     It was a moment of great anxiety with us when the two fleets lay in
     sight of each other, the one wishing to avoid coming to hard knocks
     and the other straining every nerve to be at it. I rode 20 miles to
     see the hostile squadrons, and, for nearly two days, had the
     pleasure of observing their movements from the mountain at Forty
     Mile Creek, and I must confess I never saw a more gratifying or
     more interesting sight. At 11 o'clock on the night of the last day
     that I was there (the 10th inst.) Sir James Yeo contrived to bring
     them [the Americans] to a partial engagement and for an hour and a
     half the Lake opposite the Leo appeared to be in a continual
     blaze. I remained in a state of uncertainty as to the result till
     daylight when I observed the Yanky fleet steering for Fort George
     with two Schooners less than they had the evening before, and our
     fleet steering towards York with two additional sail. [They were
     the Julia and the Growler.] The Americans have besides lost two
     of their largest Schooners, which upset from carrying a press of
     sail, when our fleet was in chase of them.

While this dramatic fighting is going on before his eyes Nairne's one regret is that his present
quarters are "completely out of the way of broken heads."

Meanwhile at Murray Bay events were happening. Colonel Fraser was kept busy. Some of the French
Canadians already showed a restiveness that ended in open rebellion in 1837 and these misguided
people now dreamed of using the war with the United States as an opportunity for throwing off
the British yoke. At Murray Bay traitorous meetings were held. Fraser watched them closely
and caused a number of the habitants to be imprisoned for a time on a charge of treason. For
an old man of eighty he showed amazing vigour. His neighbours of the Nairne household were
now in great trouble. Tom's elder sister by five years, Mary, the sprightly "Polly" of his
letters, had brought grief to her family. She made a clandestine marriage with a habitant,
the news of which, the young man, in his last letter preserved to us, wrote, "nearly bereft
me of my senses." In those anxious days of domestic difficulty and of war the old mother and
her two remaining daughters at the Manor House had assuredly enough to think of. Then came
Fate's sharpest blow. The tradition is still preserved at Murray Bay that on November 11th,
1813, Mrs. Nairne, the Captain's mother, was in the kitchen at Murray Bay, when suddenly a
sound like the report of a gun came up as it were from the cellar. She put her hands to her
head, cried "Tom is killed," and sank fainting into a chair. The day and the hour were, it
is said, noted by those about her.

By this time Thomas Nairne's regiment had passed from Burlington Heights to Kingston, at the
opposite end of Lake Ontario, some two hundred miles away. The St. Lawrence River had now become
the chief danger point for Canada. On October 21st the American General Wilkinson, with 8,000
men, left Sackett's Harbour near the east end of Lake Ontario, opposite Kingston, in boats,
to descend the St. Lawrence and attack Montreal--the identical plan that the British had found
so successful in 1760. In addition, as fifty years earlier, another American force was to advance
through the country bordering on Lake Champlain so that the two armies might unite before Montreal.
From the first the American plans went ill. The more easterly force met with ignominious defeat
by a handful of French Canadians at Chateauguay. Wilkinson did little better. British troops,
among them Nairne's regiment, were hurried down the river under Colonel Morrison to harass,
if possible, Wilkinson's rear and to fire upon his 300 boats from the points of vantage on
the shore. After a slow descent, day after day, on the night of November 10th the rear of the
American force, under General Boyd, landed and encamped near Crysler's farm, a short distance
above the beginning of the Long Sault Rapids on the St. Lawrence, to descend which needed caution.
As the American rear was some distance from the vanguard, the British, though much inferior
in numbers, thought the time favourable for attack. On the morning of the 11th when General
Boyd was about to begin his day's march forward, the British, some 800 against a force of 1800,
advanced in line. Their right was on the river and the line extended to a wood about 700 yards
to the left. The American general did not refuse the gage of battle and a sharp fight followed.
Boyd tried to outflank the British left and Nairne's company was sent forward to charge for
one of the enemy's guns. When well in advance it was checked by a deep ravine lying between
the two armies and the American cavalry made a movement to cut off the advancing party. The
pause was fatal to Thomas Nairne. A musket ball entered his head just above the left ear; he
died instantly and without pain. The British won the day. After a fierce fight the enemy fled
to their boats, embarked in great disorder and fled down the river. Their generals, when they
could hold a council, decided that the attack on Montreal must be abandoned.

Meanwhile dead on the field of battle lay Thomas Nairne. When the action was over and the enemy
had retired, his fellow officers bethought them of the body of their companion lying stark
where he fell. Already some sinister visitor had been upon the spot for his watch was stolen--"as
was not unusual on such occasions," wrote Nairne's Commanding-officer, Colonel Plenderleath,
grimly. They dug a grave; Colonel Plenderleath stooped over the body to cut off for those who
loved him a lock of hair falling over the dead face, and then, without a coffin, they laid
him in the earth. But before the grave was filled a member of the Canadian militia stepped
forward. He said that he had known Nairne's father, and begged that, for the esteem and veneration
which he bore that gallant soldier, he might be allowed time to provide a coffin for his son.
A rough box was hastily prepared. In this the body was placed and once more lowered into the
grave and there, a few yards from where he fell, the mortal remains of Thomas Nairne were committed
to the earth with the solemn rites of the Anglican Church.

The next day Colonel Plenderleath, who was not two yards away when Captain Nairne fell, wrote
to Judge Bowen what words of comfort he could for Nairne's friends:

     He was a gallant officer of most amiable Manners and
     Disposition.... It may be of some comfort to his family that he has
     fallen in the honourable service of his country. We obtained a
     complete victory, having beaten a force greatly superior to ours,
     driven him from the field of battle, and captured one Gun and
     several Prisoners.

If Nairne fell Canada was saved and the gallant young officer did not die in vain.

News travelled slowly in those days but bad news has swifter wings than good; a week after
Thomas Nairne fell the particulars of his death had reached Quebec. It was Judge Bowen's painful
duty to send to Murray Bay the intelligence he had received from Nairne's Colonel. He wrote
to Mr. Le Courtois, the curé, giving the sad news and adding "I understand that the enemy have
since crossed over to their own side.... Would to God their visit had fallen upon any other
head than that of our poor friends." He begged Mr. Le Courtois, who, himself an exile from
France because of the Revolution, had witnessed many sad days, to be the minister of consolation
at this time. "You will, I am sure be the friend of the distressed and instil into their bosoms
that peace which, I am afraid, nothing but your assistance and time can restore to them." Mr.
Le Courtois was to hand to Miss Nairne a touching and wise letter from Bowen. "Do not, my dear
Miss Nairne," he wrote, "give way to feelings but too natural upon a trying moment like this
but rather exert yourself to speak comfort and consolation to your dear Mother. Recall to her
that we are all but sojourners here on earth and that he is but gone before to those blessed
mansions of eternal peace and happiness where she will one day meet him never to part again."
Old Malcolm Fraser sent the sad news to Tom's friends in Scotland. "I am not fit to write much,"
he said, but he found comfort in the thought that the young Captain died gallantly and that
the enemy "must have suffered great loss of men, as they were entirely drove off the Field
and they lost a piece of cannon. But, alas! all this can afford little consolation to his good
and afflicted mother."

Nairne's body was not allowed to remain where he had fallen. Judge Bowen thought he ought to
lie at Quebec beside his soldier father and this was also in accord with Mrs. Nairne's wishes.
Colonel Morrison, the officer in command on the field where Nairne fell, had already been transferred
to the garrison at Quebec and every attention was paid to the task. Bowen ordered a strong
oak coffin, large enough to contain that in which Nairne was buried, and with this itself in
an outer box a man was sent to bring back the body. He bore a letter from the Bishop of Quebec
to the clergyman who had buried Nairne. All was carried out as arranged. A second time Nairne's
body was taken from the grave where it had been laid and its bearer began his long winter journey
to Quebec. The sleigh with its sad burden, a moving dark speck on a white background, made
its slow way along the wintry roads and by the shores of the ice bound St. Lawrence. We can
picture the awed solemnity with which the French Canadian peasants heard the story of Nairne's
fall as his body rested for the night in inn or farm yard. On January 20th, 1814, Bowen wrote
to Mr. Le Courtois that the body would arrive by Saturday as it was at Berthier on the previous
day when the stage passed.

The funeral took place at one o'clock on the 26th of January, 1814. Of the people of Murray
Bay a single unnamed habitant was present, a man detained by Bowen in Quebec that he might
witness the ceremony and carry back an account of it to his home. "I examined the body," wrote
Bowen briefly of what must have been a grim task, "with the assistance of my friend Buchanan
and there cannot now be the smallest doubt as to the identity of it. He was buried poor Fellow
in the Cloathes he wore when killed. His Regimental Jackit and shoes which were put into his
coffin I found in it upon opening it and have taken them out and will preserve them for his
poor friends if so melancholy a Remembrance of him should be desired by them." The lock of
hair cut off by Colonel Plenderleath at the funeral was brought to Quebec by young Sewell,
one of Nairne's companions; the remainder of his effects, sent forward in a box, seem to have
been lost on the way. At the funeral the six senior Captains in Quebec were his pall bearers
and the mourners were fellow officers of the 49th and Quebec friends of his family--well-known
names--Caldwell, McCord, Stewart, Hale, Mountain, Dunn and Bowen himself. A great crowd was
present. "Never," wrote Bowen to Miss Nairne, "was a funeral at Quebec more generally attended."
The death of the young officer was too tragic not to call forth the sympathy of a wide circle.
Eulogies were pronounced upon him and they said only what was true--that a soldier, brave,
lovable and promising had fallen on the field of honour.

[Footnote 22: See Appendix G., p. 287. "The Curés of Malbaie".]

[Footnote 23: Bowen's career was remarkable.

With the death of Thomas Nairne almost end the dramatic events in the history of the family.
It remains briefly to bring this to its conclusion, and to add to it some general account of
a village of French Canada in the past and in the present. Captain Nairne's mother was now
the owner of the property and it continued in her competent hands until her death in 1828.
"Polly's" marriage had taken that daughter away and, though there was a reconciliation, no
longer was the Manor House her home. Mrs. McNicol (with her husband and children) and Christine
Nairne still lived there with the widow of Colonel Nairne, and life went on much as before,
save that its interests were now narrowed to Murray Bay; no more was there an outside career,
such as the young Captain's, to watch.

When Thomas Nairne was killed the struggle against Napoleon in Europe had reached a supreme
crisis. Occasional letters to Murray Bay give glimpses of great events. On March 16th, 1814,
an Edinburgh friend writes to Christine: "The Castle was fired to-day in honour of the successes
of our allies in France who have again routed Bonaparte, who has retreated to Paris. His enemies
are within twenty-five miles of that capital so we must hope that the Tyrant's fate is at the
Crisis and that we shall soon enjoy the blessings of a permanent peace; much has Bony to answer
for." Ker wrote a little later from Edinburgh to say that Bonaparte "is now a prisoner on board
of one of our 74 gun ships," and to express the hope that by his fall Britons will soon get
quit of the property tax.

On March 17th, 1815, we hear from another correspondent of the renewed firing of the Castle
guns at Edinburgh, this time to announce the arrival from America of the ratification of Peace
with the United States. "We only regret this had not been settled before the disastrous affair
at New Orleans where we have lost so many brave men and able generals, but such are the horrors
of war." Just as this peace came in America renewed war broke out in Europe. "That monster
Bonaparte a fortnight since landed and raised the standard of rebellion in the south of France.
The accounts from there are very contradictory." On March 22nd the news seems better. "Troops
are assembling in defence of France and the traitor does not seem to have any adherents, so
we would fain hope all may go well." The writer, a Miss Beck, sends, for the amusement of Murray
Bay, the book "Guy Mannering," which is "in very high repute ... the author unknown, but very
generally thought to be Walter Scott, the Poet."

The hope that all would go well in regard to Bonaparte was soon dissipated. Ker wrote on April
10th, 1815, a bitter letter:

     We were flattering ourselves with being at Peace with the whole
     world when like a thunderbolt, the tremendous news of the monster
     Buonaparte's Escape from Elba, his landing and rapid progress
     through France, and the second Expulsion of the unhappy Bourbons
     burst upon us!... We have the immediate prospect of being involved
     in a bloody and interminable war, the consequences of which no man
     can foretell. The French army, Marshalls, and Generals have covered
     themselves with indelible Disgrace and shewn themselves, what I
     always thought them, the most perfidious and perjured traitors and
     miscreants that the world ever produced, and the rest of the French
     Nation are a set of the most unprincipled Knaves and Cowards that
     ever were recorded in history. I trust however that their
     punishment is at hand and that the Almighty will speedily hurl
     vengeance on their guilty heads. Among other evils, a new tax on
     Property, with additions, is said to be in immediate contemplation
     and God knows how we shall bear all the accumulating Burdens to
     which this Country must be subjected.

Just at this time came old Malcolm Fraser's end. At the age of 82 he died on June 17th, 1815,
the day before the battle of Waterloo. He had entered the army in 1757 and apparently was still
serving in the Canadian militia at the time of his death so that his military career covered
well nigh sixty years. One instruction given in his will is characteristic; it is that his
body might "be committed to the earth or water, as it may happen, and with as little ceremony
and expense as may be consistent with decency." His removal was a heavy blow to the family
at the Manor House. It was Christine who kept most in touch with the outside world and to her
the letters of the period are nearly all addressed. They contained the gossip of Quebec,--how
in December, 1814, a Mr. Lyman--"a bad name for a true story to come from,"--had brought word
of peace negotiations at Ghent; news of General Procter's Court Martial and of a fee of £500
paid to Andrew Stuart, one of the lawyers in the case. The letters are few and in 1817 they
cease altogether. During the spring of the year Christine had been ailing. On a June day she
drove out for an airing and, as she alighted from the carriage, expired instantly. The feeling
of the Protestant family towards the Roman Catholic Church is shown in the fact that she left
a small legacy to the curé, Mr. Le Courtois.

There now remained but two daughters. In May, 1821, "Polly" died in Quebec at Judge Bowen's
house. Her old mother followed in 1828. Of Colonel Nairne's large family but one child remained,
Mrs. McNicol. Her husband, Peter McNicol, appears to have been a quiet and retiring man and
of him we hear little. He was an officer in the local militia and, in 1830, became a Captain
in the second Battalion of the County of Saguenay. There were two sons, Thomas and John. Thomas,
the elder, was to get the estate at Murray Bay; for John India was talked of; but his mother
could not let him go--"our family has been too unlucky by going there." In 1826, when a youth
of twenty, Thomas made a tour in Europe. Then, or later, the young man fell into dissipated
habits and he died in early manhood. There remained only John. When he came of age in 1829
he too travelled in Europe; in April he was at Rome and there saw the newly-elected Pope, Pius
VIII. He returned to Canada quite a man of the world and for a time lived in Quebec, engaged
in business. But in 1834 when his father Peter McNicol died[25] John's prospects changed. The
seigniory belonged to his mother, during her lifetime, but he was the heir. It seemed desirable
that the name of the first seigneur should be continued and, in 1834, by royal warrant, John
McNicol adopted the name and arms of Nairne. Once more was there a John Nairne. In 1837 we
find him empowered to take the oath of allegiance from the habitants--to show that they were
not in sympathy with the rebel Papineau. His mother, the old Colonel's last surviving child,
died in 1839. She was a kindly woman, of genial temper, with a fine faculty for friendship;
so intimate was she with Malcolm Fraser's daughter that she wrote "I do believe, nay am sure,
she has not a thought with which I am not made acquainted." She never lost her sympathy with
young people and her delight in their "innocent gaiety."

As in 1762, so now again in 1839, a John Nairne ruled at Murray Bay. The young seigneur soon
took a wife. In 1841 he married Miss Catherine Leslie, of a well known Canadian family, a bride
of only seventeen, and then settled down at Murray Bay to live the life of a country gentleman.
He became Colonel in the militia, took some part in politics on the Conservative side, and
studied agriculture. He was resolved to keep up the dignity of his position and set about rebuilding
the manor house. The work was begun in 1845 and completed by the autumn of 1847; the new structure
with little change is the present Manor. It is of stone covered with wood, a capacious dwelling
with some fine rooms, and admirably suited to its purpose. To John Nairne an heir was born
in 1842 and named John Leslie Nairne and the prospect seemed excellent for the final establishment
of a Nairne dynasty in the seigniory. But, alas, this was not to be. The child died in his
third year and the last of the Nairnes ruled at Murray Bay knowing that with himself the family
should become extinct.

We must turn now to study the type of community of which he was the chief. A singular type
it is, French in speech, Roman Catholic in faith, half feudal in organization, in a land British
in allegiance, if not in origin. Long the determined rival of the Briton in America the French
Canadian, though worsted in the struggle, remains still unconquered in his determination to
live his own separate life and pursue his own separate ideals. When the British took Canada
they fondly imagined that in a few years a little pressure would bring the French Canadians
into the Protestant fold.[26] Immediately after the conquest preparations for this gradual
absorption were made. The Roman Catholics were to be undisturbed but, as soon as a majority
in any parish was Protestant, a clergyman of that faith would be appointed and the parish church
would be given over to the Protestant worship. The minority would, it was hoped, acquiesce,
and, in time, adopt the creed of the majority. The most illuminating comment upon these expectations
is the fact that, during the half century after the conquest, Protestantism made probably not
more than half a dozen converts among the Canadians, while of Protestants coming to the country
during that time hundreds went over to the Church of Rome. In other ways too the type in French
Canada has proved curiously persistent. A Lowland Scot of twenty-five married an Irish woman
of twenty-three and went to live in a French Canadian parish. Hitherto they had spoken only
English but after twenty-five years they could not even understand it when heard. They explained
that at first they spoke English to each other but when the children went to school they used
only French. So the parents yielded "C'était les enfants, M'sieu!"

A modern critic of France[27] has announced, as a sounding paradox, that the French, even of
present-day anti-clerical France, are a profoundly religious people. Certainly this appears
in France's efforts in Canada. When the Roman Catholic faith was first planted there the ground
was watered with the blood of martyrs, done to death by brutal savages. At the very time when
in France Pascal's satire and scorn were making the spiritual sincerity of the Jesuits more
than doubtful, in Canada these same Jesuits were dying for their faith almost with a light
heart. They and others, like-minded, won New France for the Catholic Church and to that Church
the conquered habitant has since clung with a tenacity really heroic. He accepts its creed,
he believes in its clergy. Whatever license of conduct marked the clergy of France in the bad
days before the Revolution, the clergy in Canada during the 300 years of its history have been
notable for a severity in morals so austere that hardly once in that long period has there
been a whisper of scandal. In consequence, they have always retained the respect of the people
and to-day, in every village, the curé commands extraordinary influence.

It may be that to the Church chiefly does the habitant owe the preservation of his identity.
Inferior to the heretic conqueror in social status, the habitant yet retained in religion the
sense of his own superiority. Was he not a member of an ancient body, in the presence of which
Protestantism represented a mushroom growth of yesterday? The Church taught him that wealth,
honour, and worldly power were not always given to the faithful; they had the truer riches
of spiritual privileges and spiritual hopes. What mattered the pride of life in the face of
these eternal treasures? So the habitant went his way. Led by his teachers he showed striking
tenacity of character. He would not follow the customs of the English. He looked with suspicion
upon their methods. Even in agriculture, where he had everything to learn, he would not imitate
him. Their language he would not learn, their religion he abhorred; so he remained, and he
remains still, true to his own traditions, a Gallic island in the vast Anglo-Saxon sea of North
America.

The habitant has not proved a pliable person. The very name shows his sense of his own dignity.
Though he held his land under feudal tenure he would not accept a designation that carried
with it some sense of the servile status of the feudal vassal in old France. So the Canadian
peasant, a feudal tenant en censive or en roture, yet wished not to be called censitaire or
roturier, names which he thought degrading; he preferred to be called a habitant, an inhabitant
of the country, a free man, not a vassal. The designation obtained official recognition in
New France and has come to be the characteristic word for the French Canadian farmer among
English-speaking people.

In other respects too the Canadian has been hardly less assertive. Earlier writers, while they
call him obliging, honest and courteous, speak also of his self-conceit, boastfulness, fondness
for drink. At Malbaie Nairne found him defiant when his spirit was aroused. Not less tenacious
than the men were the women. Malcolm Fraser tells how when he was stationed at Beaumont, near
Quebec, in January, 1761, he sent one of his men to cut wood on the property of a certain habitant,
the man himself consenting. But Madame, his wife, was not pleased. She abused Fraser, called
him opprobrious names, and, in a war of words, remained, he admits, mistress of the field.
The wrathful virago carried her appeal to Murray in Quebec, who, she said, had passed many
officers under the rod and Fraser found himself called upon to explain the matter. In a petition
he humbly begs that some "recompence" (of punishment of course) may be made to the woman for
"the insolent expressions used by her as well against the general, as the officers, who have
the honour to serve under His Excellency."

Even when he knows only rude frontier life the French Canadian often retains something of the
politeness and deference in manner of the nation from which he springs. But, unlike them, he
has retained little sense of what is artistic. No thought of beauty of situation seems to determine
his choice of the site for his dwelling. What he has in mind is protection from the prevailing
wind, if this is possible, and, for the rest, convenience. So he puts his house close to the
highway, in many cases even abutting upon it. He shows no taste in grouping his farm buildings.
He plants few trees and his house stands bare and unattractive by the road side. The absence
of trees near his dwelling is sometimes accounted for by the need, in earlier times, of clearing
away everything that might offer a chance of ambush to his Indian enemies. If this is the true
origin of the habit, an instinct survives long after the need which developed it has disappeared.
The houses are persistent in type and nearly always of wood. The principle doorway opens into
the living room, usually of a good size. It is kitchen, diningroom, parlour, often even workshop.
In this chamber cooking, sewing, repairing of tools, all the varied family activities, take
place. One large guest chamber or two small bedrooms open off it. In the corner there is a
rude staircase and up under the sloping roof are two more rooms; one a bed-room probably with
three or four beds, the other a general lumber room. Often there are two families in a household.
As always with the French, family feeling is very strong. As soon as they are old enough the
elder sons may go out into the world; it is usually a younger son whom the father selects to
remain with him on the family property. This son is free to marry and to him, when the old
father dies, the land goes on condition that he will always keep the door open to members of
the family who may seek its refuge. It is not easy to see how so small a cottage can discharge
these hospitable functions; in addition to adults there are often, in a French Canadian family,
from ten to fifteen, sometimes twenty or twenty-five children. Through the long winters, doors
and windows remain closed. The family gets on without fresh air and it gets on also without baths.

Since there are often many hands to do the work habitant farming is greatly diversified. But
improvements come only slowly. Some of the most fertile areas in Quebec have been half ruined
because the habitant would not learn the proper rotation of crops. Of the value of fertilizing
he has had only a slight idea. His domestic animals are usually of an inferior breed, except
perhaps the horses. Of these he is proud and, no matter how poor, usually keeps two, an extravagance
for which he was rebuked by successive Intendants under the French régime. In recent times
the French Canadian farmer has been making great progress. He is pre-eminently a handy man.
Though his versatility is lessening, to this day, in some of the remoter villages, he buys
almost nothing; he is carpenter, farmer, blacksmith, shoemaker; and, if not he, his wife is
weaver and tailor. The waggon he drives is his handiwork; so is the harness; the home-spun
cloth of his suit is made by his wife from the wool of his own sheep: it is an excellent fabric
but, alas, the young people now prefer the machine-made cottons and cloths of commerce and
will no longer wear homespun. Sometimes the habitant makes his own boots, the excellent bottes
sauvages of the country. The women make not only home-spun cloth, but linen, straw hats, gloves,
candles, soap. When there are maple trees, the habitant provides his own sugar; he makes even
the buckets in which the sap of the maple tree is caught. Tobacco grows in his garden, for
the habitant is an inveterate smoker: sometimes the boys begin when only five years old or
less. The women and the girls, indeed, do not smoke and an American visitor, who declares that
he saw pretty French Canadian brunettes of sixteen puffing clouds of smoke as they worked in
the harvest field, is solemnly rebuked by a French Canadian writer; the brunettes must have
been Indian women.[28]

Though nearly all the children now go to school, yet reading can hardly be considered one of
the amusements of the habitant. In the neighbourhood of Malbaie, at least, rarely does one
see other than books of devotion in a habitant household; the book-shelf is conspicuous by
its absence. Of course newspapers are read but many of the habitants are still illiterate,
or nearly so, and read nothing. Not less gay are they for this deprivation. They are endless
talkers, good story tellers, and fond of song and dance. They have preserved some of the popular
songs of France,--Malbrouck s'en va-t-en guerre, En roulant ma Boule roulant, A la Claire Fontaine,
and others--and these airs simple, pleasing, a little sad, have become characteristic of French
Canada. Nearly every house has its violin, often home-made, and though this music is rude it
suffices for dancing. But some of the bishops are as severe in regard to dancing as is the
Methodist "Book of Discipline" and in their dioceses the practise is allowed only under narrow
restrictions. The short Canadian summer makes that season for the habitant one of severe labour.
Winter, though it has its own labours, such as cutting wood, is the great season of social
intercourse. For a long time the habitant would not consider a mechanic his social equal; perhaps,
still, the daughters of a farmer would spurn the advances of the village carpenter. But whatever
the social distinctions, baptisms, marriages, anniversaries, are made the occasions for festivity.
There are corvées récreatives, such as parties gathered for taking the husks off Indian corn,
when there is apt to be a good deal of kissing as part of the game. At New Year, the jour de
l'an, the feasting lasts for three days. Hospitality is universal and it is almost a slight
not to call at this time upon any acquaintance living within a distance of twenty miles. Every
habitant has his horse and sleigh and thinks little of a long drive.

Often in the foreground of the habitant's life, always in the background at least, stand the
Church and the priest. Malbaie, like a hundred other populous, present-day Roman Catholic parishes,
was nursed in the first instance by the travelling missionary. In winter he could go on snow
shoes but his usual means of travel in a country, covered by forests, but with a net-work of
lakes and rivers, was by canoe. Malbaie could be reached either from Tadousac, at the mouth
of the Saguenay, one of the earliest mission stations in Canada, or from Baie St. Paul in the
other direction. The St. Lawrence was oftentimes a perilous route. Its waves rise at times
huge as those of Ocean itself; a frail canoe could only hug the shore and at times would be
storm bound for days. The missionary travelled usually with an attendant. They carried a portable
chapel with the vessels necessary for the celebration of the mass. We have a description of
the arrival of one of these missionaries, the Abbé Morel, as long ago as in 1683, at Rivière
Ouelle where one now takes the ferry to cross to Murray Bay. A group of people stand on the
shore watching a small black object round a distant point. As it comes nearer they see it is
a birch bark canoe, paddled by two men. In a short time the bow of the canoe has touched the
sandy beach where stands the waiting group. As the figure in the bow rises a long black cassock
falls down to his feet; he is the long expected missionary come to celebrate mass. With the
sun sinking behind the mountains of the north shore, a kind of triumphal procession escorts
the missionary to one of the neighbouring houses. The evening is spent in preparation for the
service of the morrow. The priest hears confessions and imposes penances. At daybreak on the
following morning the people begin to gather, some coming by land from the neighbouring clearings,
others, in birch bark canoes, from points more distant. Perhaps fifty persons gather before
the house. Meanwhile in its best room the portable altar has been arranged. Silence falls upon
the people as they enter the door. The mass begins; after the gospel the priest preaches a
practical sermon with impressive solemnity. The mass over, a second service, vespers, soon
follows. Then the people separate. Before the priest leaves he says the office of the dead
over a grave made, it may be, many weeks ago, he baptizes children born since his last visit,
and perhaps marries one or more bashful couples. "How beautiful upon the mountains," says a
Canadian historian of the work of these devoted men, "are the feet of those who bring the gospel
of peace."[29] Such a scene we may be sure was enacted many a time for the benefit of the scattered
sheep at Malbaie before and after the arrival of Colonel Nairne.

It was not until 1797 that these occasional services ceased and Murray Bay secured a resident
priest. Then was fully established in the parish the imposing church system that to-day probably
retains its original vigour more completely in the Province of Quebec than in any other country
in the world. At its head is the diocesan bishop. Subject only to the distant authority of
the Pope he reigns supreme. With one or two exceptions, such as that of the curé of Quebec,
he appoints and he can remove any and every priest in his diocese, a right, it is said, almost
never exercised arbitrarily. He fixes the tariff to be paid for masses. It is he who determines
whether such a practise as, for instance, dancing shall be permitted in the diocese. He watches
over the Church's rights and gives the alarm when a political leader proposes anything that
seems to menace them. If a newspaper adopts a course dangerous to the Church it has often happened
that the bishop gives it one or two warnings; in case of continued obstinacy his last act is
to forbid the faithful to read the paper; and since most of them will obey, this involves ruin
for the recalcitrant journal.

The bishop visits each parish at least every third year and sometimes even annually. A mounted
cavalcade will probably meet him as he crosses its boundary. A procession is formed. The roads
have been cleared and decorated with boughs of ever-green trees stuck in the ground. The people
watch the cavalcade from their doors and all kneel as the procession passes. The bishop goes
at once to the church where he gives his benediction and holds confirmation. He remains for
some days. There is daily communion and spiritual instruction. He inspects everything--the
church and its furnishings, the registers, the accounts, the inventory of effects, the cemetery.
He has already given notice that he is ready to hear any complaints or grievances even against
the curé. We may be sure that when he comes there is a general clearing up of parochial difficulties.
A wise bishop is a great peacemaker; an arbitrary one commands an authority not lightly to
be disregarded.

The church that towers over the humble cottages of a French Canadian village invariably seems
huge. But we need to remember how large are the parishes and how few in number relatively are
the churches; it is probable that in English-speaking Canada there are half a dozen churches,
or more, to every one in the Province of Quebec. In all Canada, rural and urban, there is probably
not a Protestant parish to which are attached as many, or perhaps half as many, people as the
five thousand who dwell in the parish of St. Etienne de la Malbaie, one of secondary importance
in the Province of Quebec. In a whole diocese there are often not more than forty or fifty
parishes. In the country the churches are usually built at intervals of not more than three
leagues (nine miles) so that no one may have to travel more than a league and a half to mass.
The life of the people centres in the Church. In its registers, kept with great accuracy, is
to be found the chief record of the village drama, the story of its births, marriages and deaths.
True to the tastes of old France the French Canadian has an amazing interest in family history,
and genealogies, based upon these ample records, are closely studied. In the olden days the
habitant brought his savings to be kept in the Church's strong chest. The church edifice, its
pictures and its other furnishings, are things in which to take pride. Each village aspires
to have its own chime of bells. To chronicle baptisms, marriages, burials, anniversaries, the
chimes are rung for a longer or shorter time according to the fee paid. Every day one hears
them often and a considerable revenue must come from this source. Whatever the habitant knows
of art, painting, sculpture, music, he learns from the Church and it is all associated with
religious hopes and fears. "Dwellers in cities," says a French Canadian writer, "have concerts,
theatres, museums; in the rural communities it is the Church that provides all this. During
her services the most fervent among the faithful taste by anticipation the joys of heaven and
murmur, enchanted: 'Since here all is so beautiful in the house of the Lord how much more so
will it be in his paradise!'"[30]

Thus it happens that here the parish and its church have a significance not felt where, as
now in practically all English speaking countries, each community represents a variety of religious
beliefs. At Malbaie, as in dozens of other parishes, there is not, except in summer, a single
Protestant. So strong is the pressure of religious and social opinion, that even persons with
no belief in Christianity are constrained to join outwardly at least in the church services.
In the villages, at least, nearly every one confesses and partakes of the communion many times
in the year; at Easter there are practically no abstentions from the sacrament. With this unanimity
it has been possible to establish by legislation a most elaborate system providing for the
support of the priests, for keeping up cemeteries and other parish needs. Elsewhere left largely
to voluntary action, in Quebec such duties become a tax on the community as a whole. Whether
a parishioner likes it or not, he must, if the taxpayers so determine, pay his share for building
a church or for other similar expenditure decided upon.

We will suppose that a new residence for the priest is desired. A majority of ratepayers must
address to the bishop of the diocese a petition with a plan of what is proposed. The commission
of five members which exists in every diocese then gives ten days' public notice in order that
objectors may have every opportunity to express their views. When, in the end, a decision to
build is reached, the commissioners announce this by public proclamation. The next step is
for the ratepayers of the parish to meet and vote the necessary money. Trustees are then appointed
to carry out the work with power to collect the required funds from the Catholic ratepayers.
This assessment is a first charge on the land; it must be divided into at least twelve equal
instalments and the payments are spread over not less than three, or more than eight, years.
To be quite safe the trustees levy fifteen per cent. more than the estimated cost. If ready
money is not on hand for the work the church property may be mortgaged. When the building is
completed the trustees render their accounts with vouchers and take oath that they are correct.
All is precise, clearly defined, business-like.

No expenditure of money can be made for building without the consent of the people. Always
in French Canada a trace of old Gallican liberties has remained, in the power over Church finances
left in the hands of churchwardens (marguillers) elected by the people. But in the old days
when the habitant was more ignorant and less alert than now he is, no doubt the voice in this
respect might be the voice of the churchwarden, but the hand was the hand of the curé. No doubt,
also, it is still true that any project upon which the curé sets his heart he will in the end
probably get a majority of the parishioners to adopt. But he must persuade the people. Sometimes
they oppose his plan strenuously and feeling runs high. Then when a churchwarden is elected,
as one is annually, the curé may have his candidate, the opposing party theirs. At Malbaie
recently there was a sharp difference of opinion between the curé and the people on a question
relating to the cemetery. The parties divided on the choice of a churchwarden and the curé's
candidate was defeated.

Yet the curé's position is one of great strength and authority. He has his own income uncontrolled
by the fabrique, which is master of the rest of the church finances. The curé's tithe consists
of one twenty-sixth of the cereals produced by the parishioners. A further tithe he has: the
twenty-sixth child born to any pair of his parishioners is by custom brought to the priest
and he rears it; sometimes, strange to say, this tithe is offered! From his tithe on cereals
the income is not large; at Malbaie it is probably never more than from $1000 to $1200 a year;
sometimes much less. The average income of a curé is not more than $600. It is the custom for
the parishioner to deliver duly at the priest's house one twenty-sixth of his grain and in
the autumn a great array of vehicles may be seen making their way thither. Usually there is
considerable variety in the grain thus brought but sometimes the curé is almost overwhelmed
by a single product such as peas; one of their number, thus paid, the neighbouring clergy christened
the "curé des pois." The French Canadian farmer is often narrowly penurious and if he will
not pay, as sometimes happens, the curé rarely presses him or takes steps to recover what the
law would allow. In any case a bad harvest is likely to leave the curé poor. Changes in the
type of farming may also curtail his income. Of the products of dairy farming he gets no share,
yet it is a creditable fact that many priests have urged their people to adopt this kind of
farming. Fees for weddings which, in Protestant Churches, go usually to the minister, are in
the Province of Quebec handed over to the general church fund. Of course the priest has sources
of income other than the tithe. He receives fees for masses but the sums chargeable for these
ceremonies are determined by the bishop; the priest himself has no power of undue exaction.
There is indeed no evidence of a desire for such exaction. Whatever personal differences may
arise, the French Canadian curé is usually one in thought and aim with his people. Wherever
he goes he is always respectfully saluted. To him the needy turn and there are heavy calls
upon his charity. Few curés have any surplus income. They keep up a large house and have constant
need of one or more horses. Most curés, it is said, die poor.

It is the complaint in Great Britain and the United States that, rather than enter the Christian
ministry, the best intellects are seeking secular pursuits. This is not the case in the Province
of Quebec. The curés watch the promising boys in the schools. The Church has many boarding
schools where boys are led on step by step to the final one of entering the priesthood. A promising
boy, if he needs it, is given a scholarship. When the time comes he is sent to complete his
education at Rome or elsewhere. The Church has selected him, trained him in her service, and,
for the rest of his life, his best powers are at her call. Every family is ambitious to have
a representative in the priesthood and this becomes the most notable thing not merely in the
family but also in the parish. The Province of Quebec has many parish histories. These volumes
are rather dreary reading, it must be admitted, consisting chiefly of the record of the building
or improvement of the church and of the coming and the going of the curés. But one chief record
is always found--that of the sons of the parish who have entered the priesthood. They are its
glory. Not merely pride in the success of their offspring leads parents to wish for a son in
the priesthood. He may bring to them more substantial benefits. He is the interpreter of sacred
mysteries, the intercessor in some respects between God and man, and he will plead for them
in the court of Heaven.

This ambition to get sons into the priesthood has made it possible now for the Church to rely
wholly upon priests Canadian in origin. Not always was this the case. After the British conquest
it was not easy to get priests. The British government frowned upon the introduction of priests
from France, still Britain's arch-enemy. Irish priests were thought of, but they could not
speak French and, besides, the Bishop of Quebec did not find in them the submissive obedience
of the Canadian priest. For a time it was seriously proposed to supply Canada with priests
from Savoy, since of them Britain could have no political fears. But for the time the French
Revolution solved the question. Emigré priests, driven from France, could be in Canada no political
danger to Great Britain since, like her, they desired the overthrow of the existing French
government. So a good many emigré priests were brought out, among them Mr. Le Courtois, so
long the curé of Malbaie. This movement soon spent itself. In time the Church in Canada had
a number of seminaries for training priests and it now levies a heavy tithe upon the best intellects
of the country. Recently a new emigration of French priests to Canada has taken place. But
they have not been wholly welcome; their tone is not quite that of the Canadian priesthood;
sometimes they assume patronizing airs and they are felt to be foreigners. I have even heard
a French Canadian priest say in broken English to a Protestant from the Province of Ontario:
"I feel that I have more in common with you than I have with the French priests who are flocking
into this country."

The Canadian curé is the priest always. Unlike the clergy in other parts of Canada he wears
his cassock even when he goes abroad; one sees dozens of these black robes in the streets,
on the steamers and trains. He does not share in the amusement of other people. In Quebec Anglican
clergymen play golf and tennis; probably if a curé did so he might be called to account by
the bishop. Occasionally priests ride bicycles, but even this is looked upon with some suspicion.
Into general society the priests go but little. They come together in each other's presbyteries
for mutual counsel and to celebrate anniversaries, such as the 25th year of the ordination
of one of their number. The large presbyteries, which one sees even in remote parishes, are
necessary to house the visiting clergy on such occasions. They assist each other when their
parishes have special fêtes. But their social intercourse is chiefly with each other. The courtly
abbé of old France, a universal guest in salons and at dinner tables, is hardly found at all
in the Province of Quebec. Nor is the scholar usual. Even in small parishes there are rarely
less than 500 or 600 communicants and the calls upon the curé's time are heavy. There are,
of course, priests of literary tastes; as there are those with a taste for art, to whom are
due the occasional good pictures found in the parish churches. Some priests interest themselves
in agriculture and give wise guidance to their people. But behind everything is the solemn,
severe, exacting, conception of the priest's high function as the medium of God's speech to
man. He is almost sexless--a being apart consecrated to an awe-inspiring office. A mother will
sometimes quiet an unruly child by threatening the portentous intervention of the curé.

Yet he is the universal friend. His relation to his people is not merely official; it is affectionate,
personal. The confessional makes him familiar with the intimate details of nearly every one's
life. On all the joyous and sad crises, at births, marriages, and deaths, he is at hand with
sympathy, comfort and support. When he goes on a journey he looks up not merely his own but
his parishioners' friends and is welcome everywhere. He is the general counsellor, the reconciler
of family quarrels, the arbitrator in differences, the guardian of morals. The seigneur at
Malbaie found the priest enquiring as to the manner in which the male and female servants of
the Manor were lodged.

Colonel Nairne thought that the Church was too willing to see the people remain ignorant; with
her the primary virtue is obedience. But it is not less true that on moral questions, such
as sobriety and purity, the Church has always shown great vigilance and zeal. In the old days
there was a mighty struggle between the Bishop of Quebec and the governor Frontenac as to the
sale of intoxicating liquors, and the Church is still keen for temperance. It is due to her
that public drinking places are unknown in most Canadian villages. At Murray Bay it happened
recently that, by some lapse in vigilance, the party favourable to the granting of licenses
got the upper hand. The results were immediate and deplorable. Summer visitors frequently found
their drivers under the influence of liquor and the habitant, usually courteous and respectful,
was now often rude and quarrelsome. The sudden fall made one realize how slight might be the
strength of virtue due merely to the absence of temptation. The Church saw the danger. In the
following winter she began a systematic temperance campaign. For some ten days daily services
were held at which eloquent denunciations of intemperance roused the people. Every effort was
made to ensure attendance at these services and the parish church, a great structure, was well
filled daily. Hundreds signed the pledge and by the next summer all was changed. No one was
licensed to sell liquor and the community was sober. If the relapse had been rapid it must
be admitted that the recovery was not less so.

The curé and his assistants do their work with the precision and regularity of a business man
in his office. They watch education, and have their own educational ideals. In the public schools
of the English-speaking world in America, manners and religion receive, alas, but slight attention.
But in Quebec one need only pass along a country road to see that the children are taught respect
and courtesy. The chief subject of instruction is religion and to prepare the children for
the first communion seems to be the main aim of education. In the parish the priest is never
far away. Nearly always one or other of the clergy is at the presbytery to answer calls of
urgency, and their duties begin at an early hour. "I am very busy until nine o'clock in the
morning," a curé once said to me. My comment was that most of us are only beginning the serious
duties of the day at that hour. "But I am tired by that time," he said, rather sadly, "for
already, so early in the day, I have heard much of human sin." The people come early in the
morning to confess and by nine o'clock the curé was weary of the tale of man's frailty. Thursday
is his day of recreation. Only on that day usually does he leave his parish and then he always
arranges that a neighbouring priest shall be within call. This oversight is not spasmodic;
it is persistent, alert, universal, and hardly varies with the individual curé. In human society
there is no institution more perfectly organized than the Roman Catholic Church and in Quebec
her traditions have a vitality and vigour lost perhaps in communities more initiated. Of course
not every one accepts or heeds the curé's ministry. Many a mauvais sujet is careless or even
defiant but, when his last moments come, at his bedside stands the priest to show to the repentant
sinner the path of blessedness, and, when he is gone, his wayward course will give ground to
call the living to earlier obedience.

In the Canadian parishes faith is simple, with a pronounced taste for the supernatural. In
the year 1907 a Jesuit priest, M. Hudon, published at Montreal the life of Marie Catherine
de Saint Augustin, 1632-1668, a Quebec nun. This devout lady lived in an atmosphere charged
always with the supernatural. She knew of events before they happened; with demons who tempted
her she had terrific combats; she read the thoughts of others with divine insight. Perhaps
the climax of her experiences is found when she has regularly, as confessor and mentor, the
Jesuit father and martyr Bréboeuf, dead for some years. M. Hudon declared that he had submitted
the evidence for these wonders to all the tests that modern scientific canons could require
and that they were undoubtedly true. The Archbishop of Quebec, Mgr. Begin, wrote a prefatory
note approving of the teaching of the book, and adding that Mother Marie Catherine's life could
not fail to be an inspiration to young girls to live nobly. This simple belief in the constant
occurrence of the supernatural is not found only in the remoter parishes of the Province of
Quebec as a French Canadian writer seems to indicate;[31] it appears everywhere. All Christians
believe in a God who shapes human events and hears and answers prayer. But many, Catholic and
Protestant alike, believe that the energy of God, in response to man's appeal, is applied through
the ordinary machinery of nature's laws. Modern thought is pervaded with the conception of
nature's rigour. I have seen good Catholics shrug their shoulders at the wonders narrated by
Marie Catherine de Saint Augustin. But others, and these not only the ignorant, think that
this attitude shows the lack of a deeper faith. Must God and his saints, they ask, be confined
within the narrow framework of nature's laws? Cannot He do all things?

So it is not strange that the Canadian peasant dwells in a world charged with the supernatural.
Night furnishes the opportunity for goblins to be abroad; the flickering lights on the marshes
are goblin fires. Then, too, the vagrant dead wander about restlessly, sinful souls refused
entrance to Heaven until they have sought and secured adequate prayers for their pardon and
relief. To cross a cemetery at night might attract the fatal vengeance of the dead thus disturbed.
The grumbling mendicant at the door may really be an evil spirit bent on mischief. With a few,
magic and the gift of the evil eye are still dreaded forces and it is well to know some charm
by which evil may be averted. Since night is the time of danger, if abroad then be watchful;
if at home close doors and windows, ere you go to sleep. I was once on a fishing expedition
with habitant guides when we had to share the same cabane. The air becoming insufferable, I
got up quietly, opened the door and went back to bed. Presently I heard one of the guides steal
softly to the door and close it. When I thought he was asleep I opened it again. But in vain;
once more it was closed. In the morning nothing was said about it. Certainly not cold was what
he feared, for the weather was hot. I do not think it was the mosquitoes. Was it the goblins?

A simpler and touching faith is common. Every one has noticed in the Province of Quebec the
numerous crosses by the way side. These Calvaires are of rough wood, usually eight or ten feet
high; sometimes with the cross are the dread implements of Christ's pain--the crown of thorns,
the hammer and nails, the executioner's ladder, the Roman soldier's spear. Often at the foot
is a box for alms to help the forgotten dead who are in purgatory. As the habitant passes them
he usually lifts his hat. The Calvaires are a kind of domestic altar to which the people come.
In the summer evenings one may see a family grouped about them in prayer. When there is need
for special prayers, several families will come across the fields to meet at the Calvaire.
Dr. Henry, of whom more later, tells how at Malbaie some eighty years ago he found in the cottages
social family worship night and morning. It is to be feared that the present generation at
Malbaie is less devout, corrupted it may be by the heretic visitors' bad influence and example.
But still the guide with whom one goes camping rarely neglects his evening devotions. In some
families prayer sanctifies all the actions of the day. There is prayer at rising, prayer at
going to bed. Though here, as in France, women are spoken of as only créatures, the mother
is usually better educated than the father and often leads these devotions, the others joining
in the responses. Before meals is recited a prayer, usually the Benedicite. There is often
a family oratory and here at the appropriate seasons, in the month consecrated to the special
family saint and guardian, in May, the Virgin's month, in June, that of the Sacred Heart, in
November, "the month of the dead," special prayers are said. On Sunday evenings the family
chant the Canticles. The Church's feasts are marked by festal signs such as the laying of the
best rugs on the floor. If there is drought groups gather frequently at the Calvaires to pray
for rain. Occasionally such supplications have a curiously commercial basis in frugal minds.
A habitant's wife, learning that a near neighbour had made an offering to the curé for prayers
for rain, declared that she would give nothing, since if rain fell on the neighbour's farm
it would not stop there: "S'il mouille chez les Pierrot Benjamin, il mouillera ben icitte."[32]

In each year, if he chooses, the habitant has a good many chances to cast his vote. The Church,
the greatest institution of the village has its annual election--that for a churchwarden; of
the three churchwardens one retires every year. An annual election there is also for the municipal
council, two or three of whose members retire each year. This body looks after the highways,
the granting of licenses to sell spirituous liquors and so on. Annually also are elected school
commissioners, who have charge of education. The municipal council and the school commission
are comparatively new institutions in the Province of Quebec. They have been borrowed from
the Anglo-Saxon world, but the habitant takes kindly to the elector's privileges and struggles
are sometimes keen. The innovation of the ballot not having been adopted, as yet, in municipal
elections, the voting is open. Every voter must thus show his preferences and when a moral
question, such as the licensing of drinking places, is before the electors this open voting
aids the Church's influence. Usually the curé is an ardent temperance man and to vote for a
license against his wishes, made known perhaps from the pulpit, needs great strength of conviction.
It thus happens that a very large number of parishes in the Province of Quebec have no licensed
drinking places.

Of offices in the gift of the village voter those in the Church are the most highly esteemed.
To be a municipal councillor or a school commissioner is indeed all very well. But the village
council is not really very important. It spends only a few hundred dollars a year and to keep
up the roads is not an exciting task. The village council rarely has even the "town hall" usual
in other communities; it meets in the "salle publique," or the vestry, of the Church, or in
the school house. The school commissioners too have no very dazzling work to do. The curé is
sometimes their chairman and thus in some degree they come under the control of the Church.
The commissioners appoint the teachers in the schools and keep up the school buildings, but
their outlay is also very small, for the salaries of teachers, usually women, are appallingly
low. The really important elective office in the parish is that of churchwarden (marguiller).
In the church the churchwardens have a special seat of honour assigned to them. They control
the temporalities and may beard even the curé himself. Large sums of money pass through their
hands. They receive the pew rents,--and every habitant has a pew; they receive the voluntary
offerings. It often happens that the Church accumulates large sums of money and that, if the
building of a presbytère or parish church is decided upon, there is enough on hand to pay for
it outright. The municipal council and the schoolboard, on the other hand, are always poor.
The habitant watches their taxation with a parsimonious scrutiny and it is a thankless task
to carry on their work.

Municipal interests represent of course only a part of the village's political thought. In
provincial politics, federal politics, there is often in Quebec an interest keener even than
in other parts of Canada. It would be too much to say that the habitant has a wide outlook
on public questions; but the village notary and the village doctor are likely to have political
ambitions and rivalry becomes acute; often indeed the curse of the village is the professional
politician. At times in Quebec politics have been closely associated with religion and always
the bishops are persons to be reckoned with. Their attitude has ever been that, if the policy
of one or the other party seems to be inimical to the Church, they have the right to direct
Catholic electors to vote against such a party. From the point of view of British supremacy
in French Canada it would be a mistake to say that the bishops in a political rôle have always
been mischievous. After the conquest they soon became the most staunch supporters of the authority
of George III and through the Church the British conqueror was able to reach the people. When
the American Revolution began, the bishops were strenuous for British connection and from the
pulpits came solemn warnings against the Americans. Again in Britain's war on Revolutionary
France the Canadian bishops were with her, heart and soul. They ordered Te Deums when Nelson
destroyed the French fleet at the battle of the Nile, and over Trafalgar there were great rejoicings.
After Waterloo we find in French Canada perhaps the most curious of all the thanksgivings;
at Malbaie, as elsewhere, a Te Deum was sung and the people were told in glowing terms of the
victory of the "immortal Wellington" which had covered "our army" with glory and ended a cruel
war. Later, in the days of Papineau, the Church opposed rebellion; she has since opposed annexation
to the United States. She has also helped to preserve order. If a crime was to be detected,
the curé read from the pulpit a demand that any one, who could give information to further
this end, should do so. Solemn excommunication was pronounced against offenders; to make the
warning impressive the priest would drop to the ground a lighted candle and put it out with
his foot; so would God extinguish the offenders thus denounced, and those who abetted their crimes.

Since the Church has aided the state, not unnaturally she expected some special favours in
return. She got them in the days of the early British governors of Canada. Sir Guy Carleton,
afterwards Lord Dorchester, secured for the Church the legal power to levy the tithe on Catholics
and practically all the other privileges she had enjoyed under the old régime. The bishops
tended to become more and more active in politics and this reached a climax in 1896. With great
heat the bishops threw themselves into the attack on the Liberal party, because it would not
support the Church's demands for her own separate schools in Manitoba, supported by taxes levied
on Roman Catholics by the state. Some of the bishops went too far in denunciation; an appeal
against their action was carried by Catholics to the Pope and the offenders were rebuked. The
incident showed that in politics the habitant knows his own mind, for he gave an overwhelming
support to the party on which the bishops were warring. Since then many a habitant draws a
sharp distinction between the spiritual and the political claims of the bishops. Their full
spiritual authority he does not doubt; in politics he thinks his own opinion as good as theirs.

If in spiritual matters the Church led it was intended that in temporal affairs too the habitants
should always have guidance. An old world flavour seems to pervade the relations between seigneur
and vassal in a French Canadian parish. The seigneur was himself the vassal of the crown, bound
to do humble homage at the capital when he received his grant. We have a detailed account of
the ceremony as performed, perhaps for the first time under British rule. On December 23rd,
1760, in the morning one Jacques Noël, a seigneur, accompanied by royal notaries, proceeded
to the government house in Quebec. He knocked at the principal entrance and, when a servant
appeared, Noël asked if His Excellency James Murray, the Governor, was at home. The servant
replied that His Excellency was within and that he would give him notice. On being admitted
to the presence of the Governor, Noël with head uncovered, and, to symbolize his humble obedience,
wearing neither sword nor spur, fell on his knees before him and declared that he performed
faith and homage for the seigniory to which, on his father's death, he had become the heir.
He then took an oath on the gospels to be faithful to the king and to be no party to anything
against his interests; to hold his own vassals to the same obedience; and to perform all other
duties required by the terms of his holding.

The Crown required very little of the seigneur and so, in truth, did the seigneur of his tenants.
Their annual payment of cens et rentes rarely amounted to more than a very few dollars. When
it fell due in the autumn they were given abundant notice. Still in the Canadian parishes,
when the Sunday morning mass is over, the crier stands on a raised platform near the church
door, the people gather round, and the announcement is made of tithes and taxes due, of articles
lost or found, of anything indeed of general interest to the community. It was in this way
that as St. Martin's day, November 11th, approached the people were reminded of the falling
due of the cens et rentes. The meaning of the two terms is somewhat obscure. The cens was a
trifling payment by the censitaire in recognition of the seigneur's position and rights as
landowner; while the rentes represented a real rental based in some degree on the supposed
value of the land. But the rate was usually conventional and very small. In early Canada the
river was the highway and upon it therefore every settler desired to have a frontage. There
was, also, greater safety from Indian attacks in having the houses close together at the front
of the farms. So these became long narrow strips, with the houses built so close together that
the country side often seems like a continuous village. The habitant paid usually in cens et
rentes twenty sols (about twenty cents) for each arpent (192 feet) of frontage; instead of
cash usually he might pay in kind--a live capon or a small measure (demi-minot) of grain for
each arpent. He paid also about one cent of rent for each superficial acre. Thus for a farm
of 100 acres, with two arpents of frontage, a habitant might pay $1.00 in cash and two capons.
If each of 400 such tenants paid for their frontage in capons, 800 of these fowls would he
brought to the seigneur's barn-yard each autumn!

Though payment was due on November 11th, the habitants usually waited for the first winter
days when the sleighing had become good. In many of the sleighs, hastening with the merry sound
of bells over the wintry roads to the manor house, there would be one or two captive capons
or a bag or two of grain. M. de Gaspé has described how on such an occasion the seigneur, or
some member of his family for him, would be found by the tenant "seated majestically in a large
arm chair, near a table covered with green baize cloth." Here he received the payments, or
in many cases only excuses for non-payment. The scene outside was often animated, for the fowls
brought in payment of the rent, with legs tied but throats free, would not bear their captivity
in silence. Rent day was a festal occasion, but the great day in the year at the manor house
was New Year's Day. Then the people came to offer their respects to the seigneur and Nairne
speaks of the prodigious consumption of whiskey and cakes at such a time. The seigneur was
usually god-father to the first-born of the children of his tenants. It is a pretty custom
among French Canadians for the children to go on New Year's Day, which is a great festival,
to the chamber of their parents in the early morning and kneel before the bed for their benediction.
To the seigneur as to a parent came on this day his god-children and we have it from M. de
Gaspé, an eye witness, that on one occasion he saw no less than one hundred of these come to
call upon the seigneur at the manor house! In the old days the people came also on the first
day of May to plant the May-pole before his door and to dance round it.

Some of the seigneurs were as poor as their own censitaires and, like them, toiled with their
hands. But usually there was a social gulf between the cottage and the manor house. Even the
Church marked this. The seigneur had the right to a special pew; he was censed first; he received
the wafer first at the communion; he took precedence in processions, and was specially recommended
from the pulpit to the prayers of the congregation. Caldwell, who was seigneur of Lauzon opposite
Quebec, used to drive through his great seigniory in state, half reclining on the cushions
of his carriage and with a numerous following. If on a long drive he stopped at a farm house,
even for the light refreshment of a drink of milk, he never paid the habitant with anything
less than a gold coin. I once asked a habitant, who remembered the old days, whether the seigneur
really was such a very great man in the village. He replied, with something like awe in his
voice, "Monsieur, il était le roi, l'empereur, du village."

The ministrations of the manor house were often patriarchical and beneficent; the seigneur's
wife was like the squire's wife in an English village. In time this relation aroused resentment.
Some villager's son with a taste for business or letters made his way in the world, got into
touch with more advanced thought, and when he came back to the village was not so willing as
formerly to touch his hat to the seigneur and accept an inferior social status as a matter
of course. M. de Gaspé tells how he often accompanied Madame Taché, in her own right co-seigneuress
of Kamouraska, opposite Malbaie, in her visits to the people on the seigniory. She took alms
to the poor, and wine, cordials, delicacies to the sick and convalescent. "She reigned as sovereign
in the seigniory," he says, "by the very tender ties of love and of gratitude." When she left
the village church after mass on Sunday the habitants, most of whom drove to church in their
own vehicles, would wait respectfully for her to start and then follow her in a long procession,
none of them venturing to pass her on the road. At the point where she turned from the high-way
up the avenue leading to the manor house, each habitant, as he passed, would raise his hat,
although only her back was in view disappearing in the direction of the house.

But early in the 19th century this spirit was changing:

     One day I was myself witness, says M. de Gaspé, of a violation of
     this universal deference. It was St. Louis's day, the festival of
     the parish of Kamouraska. As usual Madame Taché, at the close of
     mass, was leading the long escort of her censitaires, when a
     young man, excited by the frequent libations of which in the
     country many are accustomed to partake during the parish fêtes,--a
     young man, I say, breaking from the procession passed the carriage
     of the seigneuress as fast as his horse would go. Madame Taché
     stopped her carriage and turning round towards those who followed
     her cried in a loud voice:

     "What insolent person is this who has passed before me?"

     An old man went up to her, hat in hand, and said with tears in his
     voice:

     "Madame, it is my son who unfortunately is tipsy, but be sure that
     I shall bring him to make his apologies and meanwhile I beg you to
     accept mine for his boorishness."

     I ought to add that the whole parish spoke with indignation of the
     conduct of the young man. The delinquent had committed a double
     offence. He had been rude to their benefactress, and besides,
     violating a French Canadian custom, he had passed a carriage
     without asking permission.[33]

This must have been before 1813 for in that year this good Madame Taché died: even so early
was youth restive under the old traditions of deference and subordination. Already some even
of the seigneurs were saying that the system retarded settlement. It would have suited the
seigneurs to have their holdings converted into freehold, for then they could have held the
unsettled land as their own property instead of being under obligation to grant it for a nominal
rental to censitaires. But to make this conversion would have been too kind to the seigneurs;
so the matter dragged on for a long time.

The grievances of the habitant against the seigneurs were numerous, some of them real, some
fanciful. It seemed anomalous that, in a British colony in the nineteenth century, there should
be men holding great tracts of land with rights over their tenants, as some authors have seriously
claimed, extending from the power of trying them for petty offences to that of inflicting the
death penalty. This last right was, in any case, only nominal and was never exercised by any
seigneur in Canada; but even the claim that it existed shows how high were the authority and
privilege of the seigneur. A right like the corvée had a sinister meaning. One of the greatest
hardships of the old régime, in France it meant that, on demand, the peasant must drop his
own work to join in making highways, in carrying from one place to another the effects of a
regiment, and other unwelcome tasks, all without pay. In Canada it was milder. The seigneur
levied a corvée of so many days' labour, which he employed on the useful task of improving
the highway. Some seigneurs required that at the times they chose, the habitants should work
for them a certain number of days, usually six, in each year. They could even make the habitants
work without pay at building a manor house; a few of the massive stone mansions still fairly
numerous in the Province of Quebec were constructed by such labour. Not unnaturally the habitant
came to feel it odious and humiliating to be obliged thus to give his labour at another's order.

The seigneuries too were often broken up. In Canada there is no law of primogeniture and, at
a seigneur's death, the land went to daughters as well as to sons. Few of the old seigniorial
families remained on their original estates. In time those who held the property came to think
that a rental of about a cent an acre was not enough. In the days of French rule they could
not have increased it; but the old custom, they claimed, did not apply under British sovereignty.
So these charges were often increased; in time instead of a penny the habitant had to pay three-pence,
six-pence, and even eight-pence, an acre; the seigneurs, as a judge put it, showed an excellent
knowledge of arithmetical progression. Thus the cens et rentes began to bring in a real income.
So did the lods et ventes, the tax of one-twelfth of the price of whatever land the habitant
sold. In early days land was rarely sold. But when towns and villages had grown up on seigniorial
estates, a good deal of buying and selling took place and there stood always the seigneur demanding
in every transaction his share of the selling price. If the land was sold two or three times
in a year, as might well happen, each time the seigneur got his share of one-twelfth. If the
occupier had built on the land a house at his own cost, none the less did the seigneur, who
had done nothing, get his large percentage on the selling value of these improvements. This
was a real grievance. To avoid paying the seigneur's claim a price, lower than that really
paid, was sometimes named in the deed, and this led to perjury. To protect themselves the seigneur
used his droit de retrait the right for forty days of himself taking the property at the price
named. This involved vexation and delay and increased discontent. Moreover the seigneur's right
to lods et ventes stood in the way of a ready transfer of property between members of the same
family.

There were other causes of discontent. The seigneur had the droit de banalité, the banal rights,
under which in France the habitant must use the seigneur's wine-press, his oven and his mill.
In Canada no wine was made, so the seigneur's winepress did not exist. Some attempts were made
to force the habitant to bake his bread in the seigneur's oven but what would do in a compact
French village, where fuel was scarce, became absurd in Canada; the picture is ludicrous of
a habitant carrying a dozen miles, over rough roads, to the seigneur's oven, unbaked dough
which might be hard frozen en route. Moreover new inventions made ovens common and cheap so
that the habitant could afford to have his own. The seigneur's oven thus caused no grievance.
Not so however the seigneur's mill. In the early days when the seigneur had the sole right
to build a mill this became for him, in truth, a duty sometimes burdensome; for, whether it
would pay or not, the government forced him to build a mill or else abandon the right. But
in time the mill proved profitable and to it the peasant must bring his wheat. There might
be a good mill near his house, while the seigneur's mill might be a dozen miles away and even
then might give poor service; yet to the seigneur's mill he must go. If it was a wind-mill,
nature, by denying wind, might cause a long delay before the flour should be ready. As time
went on, some seigneurs claimed or reserved a monopoly in regard to all mills; grist mills,
saw mills, carding mills, factories of every kind. Canada in time exported flour, but the seigneur's
rights stood in the way of the free grinding of the wheat for this trade. The habitant might
have on his land an excellent mill site with water power convenient, but he could not use it
without the seigneur's consent. More than this the seigneur often reserved the right to take
such a site to the extent of six arpents for his own use without any compensation to the habitant.

In many cases the seigneur might freely cut timber on the habitant's land to erect buildings
for public use,--church, presbytery, mill, and even a manor house. The rights to base metals
on the property he also retained. The eleventh fish caught in the rivers was his. He might
change the course of streams or rivers for manufacturing purposes; he alone could establish
a ferry; his will determined where roads should be opened. Some seigneurs were even able to
force villages and towns to pay a bonus for the right to carry on the ordinary business of
buying and selling. So it turned out that if the habitant's crop failed he had little chance
to do anything else without the seigneur's consent; he is, says the report of a Commission
of Enquiry in 1843, "kept in a perpetual state of feebleness and dependence. He can never escape
from the tie that forever binds to the soil him and his progeny; a cultivator he is born, a
mere cultivator he is doomed to die." No doubt this plaint is pitched in a rather high key.
But in time the burden of grievances was generally felt and then the seigniorial system was doomed.

In the days of the last John Nairne political agitation became an old story at Malbaie. We
get echoes of meetings held in the village to support the cause of the idol of habitant radicalism,
Louis Joseph Papineau; in 1836 ninety-two resolutions drawn up by him and attacking the whole
system of government in Canada appear to have met with clamorous approval from the assembled
villagers. Papineau was himself a seigneur and did not assail the system. But after his unsuccessful
rebellion in 1837-38 the attack on the seigneurs intensified. We know little of what happened
at Malbaie but the end came suddenly. In 1854, after an election fought largely on this issue,
the Parliament of Canada swept away the seigniorial system. The habitants then became tenants
paying as rent the old cens et rentes. They could not be disturbed as long as this trifling
rent was paid. Moreover at any time they might become simple freeholders by paying to the seigneur
a sum of money representing their annual rent capitalized on a six per cent, basis. The term
seigneur is still used but is now a mere honorary title. No longer does his position give him
the authority of a magistrate; no longer must the habitants grind their corn at his mill; no
longer can he claim lods et ventes when land is sold. For the loss of these rights he was paid
compensation out of the public treasury.[34]

With the abolition of the seigniorial system ends too the story of the Nairne family. In 1861,
exactly one hundred years after Colonel Nairne first visited Malbaie, died his grandson and
the last of his descendants, John McNicol Nairne, son of Colonel Nairne's eldest daughter Magdalen.
This last Nairne left the property absolutely to his widow, tied only by the condition that
it was to go to her male issue if she had such, even by a second marriage. In 1884, she too
died childless, and bequeathed the property to an old friend, both of herself and of her husband,
Mr. W.E. Duggan. Had Mr. Duggan not survived Mrs. Nairne the property was to go to St. Matthew's
Church, Quebec. Mr. Duggan occupied it, until his death in 1898, when it passed by will to
his half-brother, Mr. E.J. Duggan, the present seigneur.[35]

It is a sad story this of the extinction of a family. Both Thomas Nairne and his father were
buried at first in the Protestant cemetery at Quebec. But not there permanently were they to
lie, and many years ago they found a resting-place in a new tomb in Mount Hermon Cemetery.
On a lovely autumn day in 1907 I made my way in Quebec to the spot where the Nairnes are interred.
In the fresh cool air it was a pleasure to walk briskly the three miles of the St. Louis road
to the cemetery. One crossed the battle field of the Plains of Abraham where, within a few
months, a century and a half ago, Britain and France grappled in deadly strife. The elder Nairne
saw that field with its harvest of dead on September 13th, 1759, and, in the following April,
he saw its snow stained with the blood of brave men who fell in Murray's battle with Lévis.
In May, 1776, he marched across it in victorious pursuit of the fleeing American army. At Mount
Hermon I readily found the Nairne tomb. It lies on the slope of the hill towards the river.
Through the noble trees gleamed the mighty tide of the St. Lawrence. A great pine tree stands
near the block of granite that marks the Nairne graves and a gentle breeze through its countless
needles caused that mysterious sighing which is perhaps nature's softest and saddest note.
One's thoughts went back to the brave old Colonel who wrought so well and had such high hopes
for his posterity to the soldier son, remembered here, who died in far distant India; and to
the other soldier son who fell in Canada upon the field of battle. He was the last male heir
of his line. The name and the family are now well-nigh forgotten. The inscriptions on the tomb,
reared by a friend, connected with the Nairnes by ties of friendship only, not of blood, are
themselves the memorial of the rise and extinction of a Canadian family.[36]

[Footnote 25: He must have been a Roman Catholic for he was buried in the churchyard at Murray
Bay.]

[Footnote 26: We have seen (ante p. 49) how at Malbaie Colonel Nairne expected that a Protestant
missionary would soon make the community Protestant.]

[Footnote 27: Professor Barrett Wendell, France of To-day, New York, 1907.]

[Footnote 28: Roy, Histoire de la Seigneurie de Lauzon, IV: 169, 170.]

[Footnote 29: The Abbé H.R. Casgrain: Une Paroisse Canadienne au XVII. Siècle. Oeuvres, Vol.
I, pp. 483 sqq.]

[Footnote 30: Roy, La Seigneurie de Lauzon, IV: 247.]

[Footnote 31: M. Léon Gérin in "L'Habitant de Saint-Justin", p. 202.]

[Footnote 32: Roy, La Seigneurie de Lauzon IV: 245.]

[Footnote 33: De Gaspé, Mémoires, p. 533, 4.]

[Footnote 34: Mr. Nairne claimed as compensation for his lods et ventes £4,560, 9s. 6d., (Halifax
currency) and for the banal rights £3,400. He probably received considerably less. More than
400 dwellers in the seigniory still pay the annual cens et rentes.]

[Footnote 35: Malcolm Fraser's seigniory, Mount Murray, remained somewhat longer in the family
of its original owner. On Fraser's death in 1815 his eldest son William, who had become a medical
practitioner and a Roman Catholic, succeeded. He died without issue in 1830 and his brother,
John Malcolm Fraser, then fell heir to the seigniory. When he died in 1860 the property passed
by will to his two daughters, both married to British officers. The elder, Mrs. Reeve, succeeded
to the manor house. The younger, Mrs. Higham, soon sold her share to the Cimon family who became
prominent in the district and one of whose members sat in Parliament at Ottawa on the Conservative
side. Mrs. Reeve died in 1879 leaving the use of the property to her husband, Colonel Reeve,
for his life. When he died in 1888, his son Mr. John Fraser Reeve, Malcolm Fraser's great-grandson,
became seigneur. In 1902 he sold the property to the present seigneur, Mr. George T. Bonner,
of New York, a Canadian by birth. Though there are numerous living descendants of Malcolm Fraser,
Murray Bay knows them no more.]

[Footnote 36: Sacred to the memory of Lieutenant Colonel John Nairne, First Seigneur of Murray
Bay. This Gallant Officer during 38 years distinguished himself as an able and brave Soldier.
For simplicity of manners as a man, for Intrepidity and humanity as a Soldier, and for the
virtues of a Gentleman, his memory will long be respected and cherished. Born in Scotland,
March 1, 1731. Died at Quebec, July 14, 1802.

Lieutenant Colonel Nairne first entered the Dutch Service where he belonged to that distinguished
Corps, the Scotch Brigade. He afterwards entered the British Service where under Wolfe he was
present at the taking of Louisbourg and Quebec. He also served under Murray and Carleton and
distinguished himself in a most gallant manner when Quebec was attacked by the Americans in
the years 1775 and 1776.

And of his eldest son, Lieutenant John Nairne of the 19th Regiment of Foot, who fell a victim
to the climate of India when returning with the victorious troops from the capture of Seringapatam
in the 21st year of his age; also of his youngest son, Captain Thomas Nairne, of the 49th Regiment
of Foot who bravely fell at the head of his Company in the Battle at Chrysler's Farm in Upper
Canada November 11, 1813, aged 26 years.

Also of John Leslie Nairne, great grandson of Colonel Nairne, born July 23, 1842, died March
18, 1845; and of John Nairne, Esq., Grandson of Colonel Nairne, born at Murray Bay, March 22nd,
1808, died at Quebec June 8, 1861; and of his Widow, Maria Katherine Leslie, died at Quebec,
August 25, 1884, deeply regretted by her friends and by the poor of whom she was the constant
benefactress.

In the Middle Ages mankind in pursuit of change of air and scene and of bodily and spiritual
health went on pilgrimage to some famous shrine; in modern times dwellers in cities, in a similar
pursuit, go in summer to some beautiful spot by sea, or lake, or mountain. To many these places
then become as sacred as was the saint's shrine of an earlier age. Busy men have leisure there
to be idle, to read, to enjoy companionship, to pursue wholesome pleasures. Such a spot has
Murray Bay become to many. Their intrusion was not looked upon with favour by those who wished
to preserve the old simplicity, but it could not be resisted. More than a hundred years ago
Colonel Nairne and Colonel Fraser had parties of guests in the summer that must have made the
two manor houses lively enough. The beauty of the place, its coolness when Quebec and Montreal
suffered from sweltering heat in the short Canadian summer, the simplicity and charm of its
life, proved alluring. There was also excellent sport. Salmon and trout abounded. Though time
has brought changes, in some seasons the salmon fishing is still excellent and, in all the
world, probably, there is no better trout fishing than in the upper waters of the Murray and
in some of the lakes.

Thus it happened that the earliest annals of pleasure seeking at Murray Bay relate to fishing.
It is at least possible that more than two hundred years ago the Sieur de Comporté tried his
fortune as a fisherman in the lake that bears his name. A hundred and fifty years ago, as we
have seen, Captain Nairne and his guest Gilchrist had such excellent salmon fishing that Gilchrist
thought this sport alone worth a trip across the Atlantic. Many other fishing expeditions to
Malbaie there must have been and, fortunately, a detailed narrative of one of them, made in
1830, has been preserved. The fishermen were Major Wingfield and Dr. Henry--attached to the
66th regiment at Montreal.

They went by steamer from Montreal to Quebec and an American General on board jeered at them
for travelling three hundred miles to catch fish which they could buy in the market at their
door! When they reached Quebec they found no steamer for Murray Bay,--hardly strange as then
the steamboat was comparatively new. Three days they waited at Quebec until at length they
bargained with the captain of a coasting schooner bound for Kamouraska, on the south shore
of the St. Lawrence, to land them at Malbaie. The weather was stormy, the ship nearly foundered,
and the eighty miles of the journey occupied no less than four days and nights. The fishermen
had brought with them a quarter of cold lamb, a loaf, and a bottle of wine, but, before the
journey was over, sheer hunger drove them to the ship's salt pork and to sausages stuffed with
garlic. Rather than take refuge below among "thirty or forty dirty habitants from Kamouraska"
they stuck to the deck and encamped under the great sail, but the rain fell so heavily that
they could not even keep their cigars alight. At length "with beards like Jews," cold, wet,
half-starved and miserable, they reached their destination. As they landed at Murray Bay they
saw a salmon floundering in a net, bought it, and carried it with them to the house of a man
named Chaperon where they had engaged lodgings. Here, says Dr. Henry, the sensation of being
clean and comfortable in their host's "pleasant parlour" was delicious. The tea, the toast,
the dainty prints of fresh butter were all exquisite "after rancid pork and garlic," and he
declares that they ate for two hours and consumed "some half gallon of thick cream and half
a bushel of new laid eggs." Under their window bloomed a rose bush in full flower. Murray Bay
was at its best.

On Monday morning, July 5th, 1830, the two fishermen engaged a calèche, and a boy named Louis
Panet drove them up the Murray River. The present village church was already standing, "a respectable
church," says Dr. Henry, "with its long roof and glittering spire and a tall elm or two"; the
elms, alas, have disappeared and now there are only willows. A wooden bridge crossed the Murray
and its large abutments loaded with great boulders told of formidable spring floods sweeping
down the valley. A recent "éboulement" or land slide had blocked the road along the river and
men were still busy clearing away the rubbish. Eight or ten miles up the river at the fall
known as the Chute, still a favourite spot for salmon fishing, they had magnificent sport.
One Jean Gros, in a crazy canoe, took them to the best places for casting the fly. The first
salmon weighed twenty-five pounds and they had to play it for three-quarters of an hour. That
evening when they returned to M. Chaperon's, to feast once more, they had five salmon weighing
in all one hundred and five pounds and forty-five sea trout averaging three pounds each. No
wonder Gilchrist has said such fishing was worth a trip across the Atlantic! The blot on the
day's enjoyment was that in the July weather they were pestered with flies.

Excellent sport continued from day to day. Once Jean Gros lost his hold of the pole by which
he controlled the canoe and it drifted helplessly towards a rapid, Henry all the time playing
a salmon. The man was alarmed and knelt to mumble prayers but Henry caught up a board thrown
from the shore, gave him a whack with it on the back and shouted: "Ramez! Sacré! Ramez!" The
effect was electrical. The old fellow seized the board, paddled with it like mad, steered down
the rapid, and Henry finally landed his salmon. Day after day the two fishermen drove up to
the Chute to fish until, after a fortnight, the river fell and the salmon ceased to rise; then
they went down in a large boat to Rivière Noire, said never yet to have been fished with a
rod, slept at night on the sandy beach, but had no luck. Henry tells of an annoyance at Malbaie
that still continues; mongrel dogs ran after their calèche; sometimes one would try to seize
the horse by the nose and nearly cause a run-away. Each cur pursued the vehicle and barked
himself hoarse, and then, when he retired, his neighbour would take up the task. At length,
after this experience had been frequently renewed, they decided to retaliate. One black shaggy
beast had made himself specially obnoxious; with his thick wooly fur he did not mind in the
least being struck by the whip. So one day Dr. Henry got ready the salmon gaff and, as the
brute darted out at them, skilfully hooked him by the side. The driver whipped up his horse,
which seemed to enjoy the punishment of his enemy, and the vehicle went tearing along the road,
the dog yelling hideously as he was dragged by the hook. The people ran to the doors holding
up their hands in astonishment. The Doctor soon shook off the dog and he trotted home little
the worse. Next day when he saw the fisherman's calèche coming he limped into the house "as
mute as a fish" with his tail between his legs.

Dr. Henry thought Murray Bay an earthly paradise. The people in this "secluded valley" were
the most virtuous he had ever seen. Flagrant crime was unknown,--doors were never locked at
night. There was no need of temperance reform; "whole families pass their lives without any
individual ever having tasted intoxicating fluids." The devout people, he says, had social
family worship, morning and evening; the families were huge, fifteen to twenty children being
not uncommon; when a young couple married the relations united to build a house for them; and
so on. Unfortunately we know from other sources that conditions were not as idyllic at Murray
Bay as Dr. Henry describes; but it was, no doubt, a simple and virtuous community.

In time its isolation was to disappear before invaders like Dr. Henry, in pursuit of pleasure.
So gradual was the change that we hardly know when it came. By 1850 there was a little summer
colony mostly from Quebec and Montreal. Soon a few came from points more distant. As means
of transport on the St. Lawrence improved a great many travellers passed Murray Bay on their
way to the Saguenay. Tadousac, at its mouth, was already well known and an occasional stray
visitor stopped off at Murray Bay to see what it was like. The accommodation offered was rude
enough, no doubt, but perhaps less rude than one might suppose. At Pointe au Pic stood a substantial
stone house. This was turned into a hotel and known some fifty years ago as Duberger's house.
There were besides a few other houses for summer visitors. Thus, long ago, was there tolerable
comfort at Murray Bay. In any case visitors soon found that the place had abundant compensations
even for discomfort. They came and came again. Friends came to visit them and they too learned
to love the spot. Some Americans from New York chanced to find it out and others of their countrymen
followed; by 1885 already well established was the now dominant American colony.

The influx has limited and restricted but has not destroyed the old diversion of fishing. There
are still many hundreds of lakes in the neighbourhood on which no fisherman has ever yet cast
a fly. But nearly all the good spots within easy range are now leased or owned by private persons
and clubs; no longer may the transient tourist fish almost where he pleases. All the better
for this restriction is the quality of the fishing. What magnificent sport there is in some
of those tiny lakes on the mountain side and what glorious views as one drives thither! To
reach Lac à Comporté, for instance, one crosses the brawling Murray, drives up its left bank
for a mile or so and then heads straight up the mountain side. Turning back one can see the
silver gleam of the small river winding through its narrow valley until lost in the enveloping
mountains. From points still higher one looks northwestward upon the mountain crests worn round
ages ago, some of them probably never yet trodden by the foot of man. Most are wooded to the
top but there are bare crags, a glowing purple sometimes in the afternoon light; but the prevailing
tone is the deep, deep blue, the richest surely that nature can show anywhere. Along the road
where we are driving stretch the houses of the habitants and sometimes, to survey the passing
strangers, the whole family stands on the rude door-step. They rarely fail in a courteous greeting,
with a touch still of the manners of France.

Two or three days spent on one of these wild mountain lakes, such as Lac à Comporté, is as
pleasant an experience as any one can have. The walk is beautiful from the last cottage where
the vehicles are left and the two or three men are secured who shoulder the packs with the
necessary provisions. At first the forest path is hewn broadly in a straight line but it soon
narrows to a trail winding up the mountain side. The way is rough; one must clamber over occasional
boulders and turn aside to avoid fallen trees. The white stems of birches are conspicuous in
the forest thicket. After a stiff climb we have passed over the shoulder of the mountain; the
path is now trending downward and at length through the arch of green over the pathway one
catches the gleam of the lake. The pace quickens and in a few minutes we stand upon the shore
of a lovely little sheet of water with a shore line perhaps three miles long, lying in the
mountain hollow. Evening is near and, half an hour later, each fisherman is in a boat paddled
softly by a habitant companion. In a thousand places the calm water is disturbed by the trout
feeding busily; they often throw themselves quite clear of the water and, when the sport has
well begun, at a single cast one occasionally takes a trout on each of his three flies. Before
it is dark the whole circuit of the lake has been made and a goodly basket of trout is the result.

A camp at evening is always delightful. The tired fishermen lie by the cheery fire while the
men prepare the evening meal, to consist chiefly of the trout just caught. They have the vivacity
and readiness of their race: rough habitants though they are their courtesy is inborn, inalienable.
After the meal is over silence often falls on the group of three or four by the fire. Every
one is tired and at barely nine o'clock it is time for bed. Before each of the two or three
small tents standing some distance apart by the water's edge the men have built a blazing fire
which throws its light far out over the tiny lake. All round rise the mountains, now dark and
sombre; a sharp wind is blowing and as one stands alone looking out over the water there comes
a sense of chill; for a moment the mountain solitude seems remote, melancholy and friendless:
with something like a shiver one turns to the cheerful fire before the tent. Here blankets
are spread on sweet scented boughs of sapin; the bed is hard, but not too hard for a tired
man and one quickly falls asleep.

Other fishing expeditions at Murray Bay take one farther afield and into more varied scenes.
In its upper stretches, three thousand feet above the sea, the Murray River flows through a
level country before it plunges into mountain fastnesses, almost impregnable in summer, for
a long and troubled détour, to emerge at length into this last valley. To reach this flat upland
one must drive through a beautiful mountain pass with great heights towering on either side
of the winding roadway. In the upper river the fishing is still unsurpassed. Of small trout
there are vast numbers, excellent for the table, but in the deep pools are also huge trout,
ranging in weight from three to eight pounds. The surrounding country is open; there are only
clumps of scrubby timber; and the plain is covered with deep moss readily beaten into a hard
path upon which the foot treads silently. Here the bears come to feed upon the berries and
the Canadians have called the plain prettily the "Jardin des Ours." Other sport than trout
fishing there is. In season the caribou and the moose are abundant--but that is a sportsman's
tale by itself.

Fishing and hunting are not the sole diversions. As long ago as in 1811, when young Captain
Nairne came here fresh from Europe, the boating attracted him and he spent much time on the
bay and the river. No doubt the young seigneur was soon skilful in the art of paddling a canoe.
In those days there were real Indians and no other canoes than those of birch bark; now these
have well-nigh disappeared and, indeed, few visitors at Murray Bay, use any kind of a canoe.
The pastime is thought too dangerous for all but the initiated. Amid these mountains, winds
rise quickly and beat up a sea, and it is well to keep near the shore. The rising tide sweeps
like a mill race over the bar at the mouth of the bay and when one has passed out to the great
river it is like being afloat on the open sea. On perfectly calm days we may go far out to
be swept up with the tide; but it is both safer and pleasanter to glide along close to shore
under the shadow of the cliffs, around sharp corners, dodging in and out among boulders submerged,
or now being submerged, by the rising tide. The successive sandy beaches are each backed by
high cliffs. The river is a shining, spangled, surface of light blue and white, reflecting
the sky sprinkled with fleecy clouds. Here a chattering stream, the Petit Ruisseau, falls over
white rocks to lose itself in the sand. Far ahead now one can see the Church of Ste. Irénée
perched on a level table-land, two or three hundred feet above the river. Soon a dark green
line on the high birch-clad shore marks the gorge by which the Grand Ruisseau flows to the
St. Lawrence. At its mouth is a good place to land and make tea. The canoes are drawn up on
a sandy beach under the shadow of cliffs, a medley of red and grey and brown. Near by, the
Grand Ruisseau, a fair sized brook, babbles in its bed crowded with great boulders. A wild
path, part of it including steps from rock to rock in the bed of the stream itself, leads to
a lovely little cascade where, in white foam, the water falls into a deep dark pool. One hurries
to visit it and then, with the evening shadows falling and the narrow gorge becoming sombre,
it is wise to hasten back. As one steps out from the wooded path to the shore of the great
river the scene is enchanting. The river's shining surface is perfectly smooth. Far across
it is a dark-blue serried line of mountains. Houses, twenty miles distant, stand out white
in the last light of the sun. From the tin-covered spire of a church far away, the flash of
the rays comes back like the glow of fire. Standing in shadow we look out on a realm of light:

    "As when the sun prepared for rest
    Hath gained the precincts of the West,
    Though his departing radiance fail
    To illuminate the hollow vale,
    A lingering light he fondly throws
    On the fair hills, where first he rose."

The shore is strangely silent; one hears only the occasional puffing of the white whale or
the sad cry of the loon.

A thrilling diversion is that of running the rapids in the Murray River. The canoe is sent
up by charette and after luncheon it is a walk or drive of eight or nine miles up the river
to the starting point--a deep, dark-brown pool, which soon narrows into a swift rapid, the
worst in all the stretches to the river's mouth. Formerly a procession of half a dozen canoes
would go through the rapid with light hearts, but, long ago, when the river was very high,
a canoe upset here and one of its occupants was never seen alive again. As one paddles out
into the pool and is drawn into the dark current moving silently and swiftly to the rapid the
heart certainly beats a little faster. The water's surface is an inclined plane as it flows
over the ledge of rock. Straight ahead the current breaks on a huge black rock in a cloud of
white foam. One must sweep off to the right, with the great volume of the water, and need catch
only a little spray in swinging safely past the danger point. Then, in the waves caused by
the current, before the canoe is quite turned "head-on" a wave may curl over the bow and leave
the occupants kneeling in half an inch of water. In such a case it is wise to land and empty
the canoe. In the next rapid, a tangled maze, the water is shallow and skill is required to
wind in and out among the rocks and find water enough to keep afloat. Then the canoe slips
over a ledge with plenty of water and the only care is to curve sharply to the left with the
current before it strikes the bank straight ahead. The whole trip down the river occupies two
glorious hours. There are short stretches of smooth and deep water; then the river contracts
and pours with impetuous swiftness down a rocky slope. Sometimes trees stand close to the river;
then there are bare grey banks of clay; then smiling fields sloping gently up to the high land;
at times the canoe is in shade, then in the flashing sunlight. The river grows milder as it
nears its mouth but the excitement does not end until we float under the bridge at Malbaie
village and lift the canoe over the boom fastened there to catch logs in their descent. To
paddle home in calm water across the bay seems tame after dancing for two hours on that tossing
current.

Of course there are many walks and drives--on the whole the most delightful of Malbaie's diversions.
The favourite walk is to "Beulah." A generation that does not read its Bible as it should may
need to be told that Beulah is the name of the land no more desolate in which the Lord delighteth;
some Bible reader so named a spot on the mountain where one looks out far, far, afield in every
direction for immense distances. It may be reached by a forest path straight up the mountain
side from Pointe au Pic. We go through spruce and birch woods till we reach an opening where
we look out northward on rounded mountain tops blue, silent, immeasurable, spreading away,
one might almost fancy to the North Pole itself, so endless seems their mass. On beautiful
turf through woods, then by a cow path across a bog, the path leads until a bare hill top lies
full in view. This is Beulah. Standing there one seems to have the whole world at one's feet.
When Petrarch had climbed Mount Ventoux, near Avignon, the first man for half a century to
do so, the scene overwhelmed him; thoughts of the deeper meaning of life rose before his mind;
he drew from his pocket St. Augustine and read: "Men go about to wonder at the height of the
mountains and the mighty waves of the sea, and the wide sweep of rivers and the circuit of
the ocean and the revolution of the stars, but themselves they consider not." I never stand
on "Beulah" without thinking of this passage. Far away to the distant south shore, and up and
down the river we can survey a stretch of eighty or ninety miles. We stand in the midst of
a sea of mountains and look landward across deep valleys in all directions with the ranges
rising tier on tier beyond.

Among diversions for men golf, in spite of a certain reaction, has still the chief place. The
club house is on the west shore of the bay. One plays out northward. The players zigzag here
and there among curious earth mounds formed by the eddying swirl of water when the river's
current held high carnival over these level stretches. Then the course leads up to the higher
slope and mounts steadily, until, at the farthest hole, a considerable height has been reached.
As one turns back towards the river he faces a wonder scene of changing grey and blue and green
and white. The smoke of passing steamers floats lazily in the air; they take the deep channel
by the south shore and are a dozen miles away. It is usually a silent world that one looks
out upon; but when there is a north-east wind great green waves come rolling in upon the sandy
shore of the bay and fill the air with their undertone.

Even the rainy days have their own pleasures. One is glad of its excuse to sit before a crackling
fire of birch wood and read. When the rain has ceased and the sun comes out, looking across
to Cap à l'Aigle and up the river valley one sees new beauties. The mist disperses slowly.
First it leaves bare the rounded mountain tops; they stand out dark, massive, with bases shrouded
still in fleecy white. When the sun grows strong, river and valley are soon clear again, though
the outlines are still a little softened. Up over the sand and boulders of the bay comes the
rising tide changing sombre brown to shining blue. It rushes noisily across the bar at the
bay's mouth a few hundred yards away.

The visitors to this beautiful scene gather year by year from places widely separated and form
in this remote village a society singularly cosmopolitan. English, French, Americans, Canadians,
all mingle here with leisure to meet and play together. For a time far away seems the hard
world of competition. Rarely do newspapers arrive until at least the day after publication;
the telegraph is used only under urgent necessity; as far as possible business is excluded.
The cottages are spacious enough but quite simple, with rooms usually divided off only by boards
of pine or spruce. Very little decoration makes them pretty. Gardening has a good many devotees;
the long day of sunshine and in some seasons the abundant rain of this northern region help
to make vegetation luxurious. If one drives he may take a planche--the convenient serviceable
"buck-board,"--still unsurpassed for a country of hills and rough roads. But to me at least
the calèche is the more enjoyable. It comes here from old France, a two-wheeled vehicle, with
the seat hung on stout leather straps reaching from front to back on each side of the wooden
frame. It is not a vehicle for those sensitive to slight jars. The driver sits in a tiny seat
in front and one is amazed at the agility with which even old men spring from this perch to
walk up and down the steep hills. Their ponies are beautiful little animals, specially fitted
by a long development for work in this hilly country. So well do they mount its heights that
travellers repeat an unconfirmed tradition of their having been known to climb trees!

It is not strange that in our happy summer days we acquire a deep affection for this northern
region, its brilliant colouring, its crisp air. Not its least charm is in the cheerful and
kindly people. One would not have them speak any other tongue than their French, preserving
here archaic usages, with new words for new things, influenced of course by English, but still
the beautiful language of an older France than the France of to-day. The people have their
own tragedies. One sees pale women, over-worked. The physician's skill is too little sought;
the country ranges are very remote; it is difficult and expensive to get medical aid; and there
are deformed cripples who might have been made whole by skill applied in time. Consumption
too is here a dread scourge, though against it a strenuous campaign has now begun. Many children
are born but too many die. Still, most of the people live in comfort and they enjoy life--enjoy
it probably much more than would an Anglo-Saxon community of the same type.

We who are among them in the summer are citizens of another and an unknown world. New York
and Chicago, Boston and Washington, Toronto and Montreal are to us realities with one or other
of which, in some way, each of us is linked. To this simple people they are all merely that
outer world whence come their fleeting visitors of summer, as out of the unknown come the migrant
birds to pause and rest awhile. We bring with us substantial material benefits; but it is not
clear that our moral influence is good. Leaving his farm the habitant brings to the village
his horse and calèche to become a hired charretier. He often gets good fares but there is much
idle waiting. Bad habits are formed and regular industry is discouraged. The curé finds Malbaie
a difficult sphere. We alone get unmixed benefit from this fair scene, its days of glad serenity,
and of almost solemn stillness, when even a bird's note is heard but rarely.

Because all that concerns it interests us I have tried to put together from scattered fragments
the story long forgotten of the past of Malbaie. In it there is abundance of the tragedy never
remote from man's life: if the telling of the tale has been a pleasure it has proved not less
a sad pleasure. But the story adds only a deeper meaning to our beautiful playground. After
all it is man and his activities which give to nature's scenes their deepest interest; Quebec's
chief charm is due to Wolfe and Montcalm, St. Helena's to Napoleon. The shaggy mountain crests
which we view from our valley, the glistening blue river, the strong north-east wind which
clouds the sky, turns the river to grey, and sprinkles its surface with white caps,--all are
full for us of joyous beauty. But how much less of interest would there be did the white spire
of the village church not peep out above the green trees up the bay to tell of man's weakness
and his hopes! The story of the brave old soldier who peopled this valley, the pathetic tragedy
of his successor's fate, add something here to the bloom of nature. It may be that the chief
service of the chequered and half-forgotten past when it speaks is to show how vain and transient
is all we think and plan,--"what shadows we are and what shadows we pursue." But be it so.
One would not miss from life this last joy of knowing what it really means.

AUTHORITIES

CHAPTER I.--For Jacques Cartier see his Voyages of 1535-36, in French (Ed. D'Avezac) Paris,
1863, translated into English (Ed. Baxter), New York, 1906. For Champlain see his Oeuvres (Ed.
Laverdière) Quebec, 1870. Bourdon's Act of Faith and Homage is in Canadian Archives, Series
M., Vol. I, p. 387. M. B. Sulte gives an account of the Carignan Regiment in the Proc. and
Trans. of the Royal Society of Canada for 1902. The account of the Sieur de Comporté in France
is in Canadian Archives Series B., F., 213, p. 46; that of the auction sale of his property
is in a MS. preserved at Murray Bay, while a record of the sale of Malbaie to the government
is in Canadian Archives, Series M., Vol. LXV, p. 75. "The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents"
(Ed. Thwaites) (Cleveland, 1900), Vol. LXIX., pp. 80 sqq. contains the account of Malbaie in
1750. The authority for the burning of Malbaie in 1759 is Sir James M. Le Moine, "The Explorations
of Jonathan Oldbuck," Quebec, 1889, based upon documents printed by "T.C." in L'Abeille, Nov.
and Dec., 1859. Standard histories of the time such as Parkman's "Montcalm and Wolfe" give
references to authorities for the events of the Seven Years' War.

CHAPTER II.--The "Dictionary of National Biography" contains good articles on Lord Lovat, General
Murray, &c., with references to authorities. Alexander Mackenzie's "History of the Frasers
of Lovat" (Inverness, 1896) is the most recent detailed history of the family. MacLean, "An
Historical Account of the Settlement of Scotch Highlanders in America," (Cleveland, 1900),
contains valuable information. The portion of the chapter relating to Malbaie is based upon
MSS. preserved there in the Murray Bay Manor House.

CHAPTER III.--MS. material preserved at Murray Bay.

CHAPTER IV.--Much original material relating to the Siege of Quebec in 1775-76 has been published
by the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec. To be specially noted are the two volumes
of documents on the "Blockade of Quebec in 1775-76 by the American Revolutionists, (Les Bostonnais)"
Edited by F.C. Würtele (Quebec, 1905 and 1906). Two or three works have been written recently
on the episode from the American point of view: Codman, "Arnold's Expedition to Quebec" (New
York, 1901); Justin H. Smith, "Arnold's March from Cambridge to Quebec, a critical study, together
with a reprint of Arnold's Journal," (New York, 1903); Justin H. Smith, "Our Struggle for the
Fourteenth Colony," 2 Vols. (New York, 1907). The story of Nairne's part in the war is based
chiefly upon MS. material preserved at Murray Bay. The incident of the escaped prisoners is
told in Nairne's reports; to Captain Matthews, Secretary to Haldimand, on the 14th of May,
1780, and to Major Le Maistre, on the 5th of June. These are at Murray Bay. A further report
to Matthews on the 3rd of June is preserved at Ottawa; Canadian Archives, Series B, Vol. 73,
p. 130. Mr. James Thompson was in charge of the building of the houses for the prisoners and
tells of their escape in his MS. Diary.

CHAPTER V. and CHAPTER VI. are based upon MSS. at Murray Bay.

CHAPTER VII.--M. Léon Gérin has given an exhaustive analysis of the life of the habitant in
"L'Habitant de Saint Justin," published in the Proc. and Trans, of the Royal Society of Canada
for 1898 (Ottawa, 1898). M. J.-E. Roy's "Histoire de la Seigneurie de Lauzon," of which five
volumes have been published (the last, Levis, Quebec, 1904) is the most detailed and authoritative
account of a Canadian Seigniory. Vol. IV deals especially with the life of the habitants. Philippe
Aubert de Gaspé's "Les anciens Canadiens," (Quebec, 1863), and his "Mémoires" (Ottawa, 1866),
contain much that is interesting on the life of a Canadian manor. So also do H.R. Casgrain's
"Une Paroisse Canadienne au XVIIe Siècle," Oeuvres Completes, Vol. I (Montreal, 1884), and
Parkman's "The Old Régime in Canada," (Boston, 1893). W. Bennett Munro's "The Seigniorial System
in Canada," (New York, 1907), and his "Documents relating to Seigniorial Tenure in Canada,"
(Toronto, 1908), cover adequately the whole subject, and contain, in addition, abundant references
to further authorities. The "Mandements des Evêques de Québec," (Ed. Têtu and Gagnon), in six
volumes, the first published in 1887, contain much of interest in regard to the attitude of
the Church to the people. The Second Part of "The Report of the Commission charged with revising
and consolidating the General Statutes of the Province of Quebec," (Quebec, 1907), outlines
the legal aspects of the school and Church systems. M. André Seigfried's "Le Canada, Les Deux
Races," (Paris, 1906), translated into English under the title of "The Race Question in Canada,"
(London, 1907), is a passionless analysis of religious and political thought in the Province
of Quebec.

CHAPTER VIII.--The account of fishing at Murray Bay in 1830 is by Walter Henry; "Events of
a Military Life," 2 Vols. (London, 1843). The chapter is based chiefly upon personal observation.

APPENDICES

APPENDIX A (p. 31)

THE JOURNAL OF MALCOM FRASER, FIRST SEIGNEUR OF MOUNT MURRAY, MALBAIE

Malcolm Fraser was a young man of about twenty-six when he kept his diary of Wolfe's campaign
against Quebec. It shows that already he had considerable powers of observation and very definite
opinions. No doubt Fraser preserved a record of events in the campaign earlier than those of
1759; and it seems likely that the habit of recording his experiences would also have been
kept up in later life. When, some time before 1860, were made the extracts from Fraser's Journal
upon which the present notes are based, the original remained in the possession of his son
the Hon. John Malcolm Fraser. The extracts were published by the Literary and Historical Society
of Quebec in 1868 and have been used by Parkman and other historians, who usually, however,
confuse Fraser with his commanding officer Colonel Simon Fraser. The extracts have long been
out of print. I have not been able to trace the original MS. or any other Journal of Fraser,
except a brief and quite valueless one preserved at Mount Murray. In one of his later letters,
written fifty years after this Journal, Fraser speaks of his reluctance to handle the pen.
But this did not keep him from writing in a beautiful round hand many long letters and making
also copies for his own use.

Early in the spring of 1859 a great British fleet had arrived in America from England and a
squadron under Admiral Holmes had gone to New York to embark the Highlanders and other regiments
wintering there to proceed to Quebec. The place of rendezvous was Louisbourg. Fraser's Journal
begins on May 8th, 1759, with the departure of the regiments from Sandy Hook, the fleet consisting
of about twenty-eight sail. The Highlanders had taken part in the siege and capture of Louisbourg
in the previous year but had gone to New York for the winter. On May 17th the fleet sailed
into Louisbourg Harbour after "a very agreeable and quick passage" of nine days. Patches of
snow lay still on the ground and on the 29th of May Louisbourg Harbour was so full of ice that
boats could not pass from the ships to shore. "I suppose," says Fraser, "the ice comes from
the Gulf and river of St. Lawrence," regions he was in time to be very familiar with. He hears
that a Lieutenant has shot himself on one of the men of war "for fear I suppose the French
should do it. If he was wearied of life, he might soon get out of it in a more honourable way."

On Monday, June 4th, after much bustle of preparation, the fleet set sail for Quebec. "I take
it to consist of about 150 sail," says Fraser; so great was the array that to count the ships
was almost impossible. They numbered in fact nearly 300, a huge force. On June 13th the fleet
anchored at Bic in the St. Lawrence River. As they came up the river Fraser noted that the
north shore was but little inhabited, a defect which, within a few years, he was himself to
try to remedy in part. On June 23rd a whole division of the fleet anchored near Isle aux Coudres
as Jacques Cartier had done more than two hundred years earlier.

Arrived before Quebec the Highlanders were sent to Point Levi where, on July 1st, they pitched
their tents. The next day Fraser's company established itself in the Church of St. Joseph there.
The Canadians were carrying on guerilla warfare, firing on the British from the woods and Fraser
was shocked at the horrid practise of scalping. He writes on July 2nd:

"While we were out, I observed several dead bodies on the road, not far from our Camp; they
were all scalped and mangled in a shocking manner. I dare say no human creature but an Indian
or Canadian could be guilty of such inhumanity as to insult a dead body."

He was to see worse atrocities committed on his own side. On July 10th, still at Point Levi,
he writes of the doings of a company of the colonial scouting force, the Rangers, commanded
by Captain Gorham, who soon after desolated Malbaie.

"A party of our Rangers having been sent out on this side of the river (the south), on the
9th they took one man prisoner and two boys (his children) having followed him a little way,
making a great noise, were in a most inhuman manner murdered by those worse than savage Rangers,
for fear, as they pretend, they should be discovered by the noise of the children. I wish this
story was not fact, but I'm afraid there is little reason to doubt it:--the wretches having
boasted of it on their return, tho' they now pretend to vindicate themselves by the necessity
they were under; but, I believe, this barbarous action proceeded from that cowardice and barbarity
which seems so natural to a native of America, whether of Indian or European extraction. In
other instances, those Rangers have hitherto been of some use, and showed in general a better
spirit than usual. They are for the most part raised in New England."

On Friday, July 13th, the scene changed. Wolfe was planning an attack on Montcalm's camp and
Fraser writes: "I was sent orderly officer to the Camp, at Montmorency, where I had an opportunity
of seeing our own, and the French posts nigh the Fall. The river is fordable below the Fall
at low water." On July 24th, 350 of the Highlanders under Col. Simon Fraser were sent down
the river to bring in prisoners and cattle. The Highland leader met with misfortune. On July
26th Fraser writes: "Lieut. Alexander Fraser, Junior, returned to camp from the detachment
which marched with the Col. on the 24th. He brings news of the Colonel's having been wounded
in the thigh, by an unlucky shot from a small party of Canadians who lay in ambush and fired
on the detachment out of a bush, and then retired. In the evening, the Col. came to camp with
Capt. McPherson, who was wounded by the same shot, and the ball lodged in his thigh; but it
is thought neither of their wounds are (sic) dangerous. There was not another man of the detachment
touched." Next day the rest of the detachment "returned with three women and one man prisoners,
and above two hundred head of cattle."

On the following night July 28th, the French tried to destroy the British fleet by a fire ship.
"This night the French sent down a large fire raft which they did not set fire to till they
were fired on by some of the boats who are every night on the watch for them above the shipping.
Our boats immediately grappled it, and tho' it burnt with great violence, they towed it past
all the shipping without any damage." We know from other sources that one of the sailors engaged
in dragging away the fireship likened it to having "hell-fire in tow."

Fraser records on Tuesday, July 31st, the disastrous attempt by the British to carry by a frontal
attack Montcalm's entrenchments along the Beauport shore. The attack failed partly through
the rashness of the Grenadiers who dashed forward prematurely. For this Wolfe rebuked them
but he commended the cool steadiness of the Highlanders. Some 700 British casualties were the
results of the attack. When the British drew off they left many of their men fallen on the
shore. Fraser says: "I observed some men coming down from the trenches where some of our people
lay killed; we imagined they were Indians who were sent to scalp them, after the whole had
retreated."

At once after the disaster, the Highlanders were moved back to their old camp at Point Levi.
Some idle days followed. But, on August 15th, a detachment which included Fraser was sent to
the Island of Orleans. It was bent on the work of desolating the Canadian parishes, the people
of which still persisted in warring on the British. On Thursday, August 16th, the detachment,
consisting of about 170 officers and men, marched the length of the Island of Orleans and on
the 17th it crossed to St. Joachim--the fertile flats lying almost under the shadow of Cap
Tourmente: Fraser was drawing near to the Malbaie country. He writes: "Friday, 17th August.--Crossed
from the Isle of Orleans to St. Joachim. Before we landed we observed some men walking along
the fences, as if they intended to oppose us and on our march up to the Church of St. Joachim,
we were fired on by some party's of the Enemy from behind the houses and fences, but upon our
advancing they betook themselves to the woods, from whence they continued popping at us, till
towards evening, when they thought proper to retire, and we kept possession of the Priest's
house, which we set about fortifying in the best manner we could." They remained quietly at
St. Joachim for some days. But they were getting ready for the grim task of desolating the
parishes lying between St. Joachim and Montmorency. Fraser tells the story with soldier-like
brevity, but obviously he hated the work.

"Thursday, 23rd.--We were reinforced by a party of about one hundred and forty Light Infantry,
and a Company of Rangers, under the command of Captain Montgomery of Kennedy's or forty-third
Regiment, who likewise took the command of our detachment, and we all marched to attack the
village to the west of St. Joachim, which was occupied by a party of the enemy to the number
of about two hundred, as we supposed, Canadians and Indians. When we came pretty near the village,
they fired on us from the houses pretty smartly; we were ordered to lie behind the fences till
the Rangers, who were detached to attack the Enemy from the woods, began firing on their left
flank, when we advanc^d briskly without great order; and the French abandoned the houses and
endeavoured to get into the woods, our men pursuing close at their heels. However, as the affair
could not be remedied, I was obliged to let it drop.

"Friday, 24th August.--Began to march and burn as yesterday, till we came to Ange Gardien where
our detachment and Captain Ross, who had been posted for some days at Chateau Richer, joined
Colonel Murray with the three companies of Grenadiers of the 22nd, 40th and 45th Regiments,
where we are posted in four houses which we have fortified so as to be able, we hope, to stand
any attack which we can expect with small arms.

"Saturday, 25th.--Busy felling the fruit trees, and cutting the wheat to clear round us.

"Sunday, 26th.--The same.

"Monday, 27th August.--I hear Brigadier Murray has returned with his detachment, having had
all the success expected of the detachment. We received orders to march to-morrow to Chateau
Richer. Some men were observed skulking in the corn, round the houses we possessed; upon which,
some of our people fired from one of the houses, when the whole took the alarm and continued
firing from the windows and loopholes for about ten minutes. For my own part I can't say I
could observe any of the Enemy, but as we had one man killed, and most of the men affirmed
they saw men in the Corn, I can't doubt but there were a few of the Enemy near us."

So the record goes on. On August 30th the detachment was busy fortifying itself in the Church
at Château Richer near Quebec. On the next day orders came to burn the houses there but not
the church and return at once to Montmorency. At Ange Gardien, on the way, General Murray,
after whom Murray Bay is named, joined them with his detachment. As they marched along the
force burned all the houses and was soon back in camp at Montmorency. They had left a trail
black with desolation between that point and Cap Tourmente. Captain Gorham completed the tale
of woe by destroying Baie St. Paul and Malbaie. Hardly a house was left between Montmorency
and the Saguenay.

But all this was only side-play. The crisis of the campaign was now near. On September 3rd
Wolfe abandoned the camp at Montmorency. Fraser writes: "The Army at Montmorency decamped this
day, and crossed to the Island of Orleans, and from thence to Point Levy, without molestation
from the French, tho' they must have known some time ago that we intended to abandon that post."

Wolfe was now massing as many troops as possible above Quebec on the south side of the river.
On September 6th, 600 of the Highlanders, together with the 15th and the 43rd, marched six
miles above Point Levi and there embarked on board the ships. Fraser says: "We are much crowded;
the ship I am in has about six hundred on board, being only about two hundred and fifty tons."
On the 7th and 8th it rained and the men must have been very uncomfortable in their narrow
quarters. For some days still they remained in this condition. Meanwhile were issued to the
men careful instructions as to what they should do. The army was to drop down the river in
small boats, and to attempt to make a landing on the north shore.

On the evening of September 12th came the final effort so carefully planned. "About nine o'clock,
the night of the 12th, we went into the Boats as ordered." Fraser says that a shore battery
began to fire on the British boats about 4.0 A.M. before they landed and that the landing at
the Foulon to climb to the Heights was made at daybreak.

"Thursday, 13th September, 1759.--The Light Infantry under the command of Colonel Howe, immediately
landed and mounted the hill. We were fired on in the Boats by the Enemy who killed and wounded
a few. In a short time, the whole army was landed at a place called 'Le Foulon,' (now Wolfe's
Cove) about a mile and a half above the Town of Quebec, and immediately followed the Light
Infantry up the hill. There was a few tents and a Picket of the French on the top of the hill
whom the Light Infantry engaged, and took some of their Officers and men prisoners. We had
several skirmishes with the Canadians and Savages, till about ten o'clock, when the army was
formed in line of battle, having the great River St. Lawrence on the right with the precipice
which we mounted in the morning; on the left, a few houses, and at some distance the low ground
and wood above the General Hospital with the River St. Charles; in front, the Town of Quebec,
about a mile distant; in the rear, a wood occupied by the Light Infantry ... and the third
Battalion of the Royal Americans.... The Army was ordered to march on slowly in line of battle,
and halt several times, till about half an hour after ten, when the French began to appear
in great numbers on the rising ground between us and the Town, and [they] having advanced several
parties to skirmish with us, we did the like. They then got two Iron field pieces to play against
our line. Before eleven o'clock, we got one brass field piece up the Hill, which being placed
in the proper interval began to play very smartly on the Enemy while forming on the little
eminence. Their advanced parties continued to annoy us and wounded a great many men. About
this time, we observed the Enemy formed, having a bush of short brush wood on their right,
which straitened them in room, and obliged them to form in columns. About eleven o'clock, the
French Army advanced in columns till they had got past the bush of wood into the plain, when
they endeavoured to form in line of Battle, but being much galled by our Artillery, which consisted
of only one field piece, very well served, we observed them in some confusion. However they
advanced at a brisk pace till within about thirty or forty yards of our front, when they gave
us their first fire, which did little execution. We returned it, and continued firing very
hot for about six, or (as some say) eight minutes, when the fire slackening, and the smoke
of the powder vanishing, we observed the main body of the Enemy retreating in great confusion
towards the Town, and the rest towards the River St. Charles.

"In the afternoon, Mons. Bougainville, with the French Grenadiers and some Canadians, to the
number of two thousand who had been detached to oppose our landing at Cap Rouge, appeared between
our rear and the village St. Foy, formed in a line as if he intended to attack us; but the
48th Regiment with the Light Infantry and 3rd Battalion Royal Americans being ordered against
him, with some field pieces, they fired a few cannon shot at him when he thought proper to retire.

"Thus ended the battle of Quebec, the first regular engagement that we ... fought in North
America, which has made the king of Great Britain master of the capital of Canada, and it is
hoped ere long will be the means of subjecting the whole country to the British Dominion; and
if so, this has been a greater acquisition to the British Empire than all that England has
acquired by Conquest since it was a nation, if I may except the conquest of Ireland, in the
reign of Henry the 2nd.

"The Enemy's numbers I have never been able to get an exact account of. We imagined them seven
or eight thousand: this has been disputed since. However, I am certain they were greatly superior
to us in numbers, as their line was equal to ours in length, tho' they were in some places
nine deep, whereas ours was no more than three deep. Add to this, their advanced parties and
those in the bushes, on all hands, I think they must exceed five thousand.

"Our strength at the utmost did not exceed the thousand men in the line, exclusive of the 15th
Regiment and 2nd Battalion Royal Americans, who were drawn up on our left, fronting the River
St. Charles, with the 3rd Battalion Royal Americans and Light Infantry in the rear, and the
48th Regiment, who were drawn up between our main body and the Light Infantry as a Corps of
Reserve. So that I am pretty certain our numbers did not exceed four thousand men, the Regiments
being very weak, most of them under three hundred men each.

"We had only about five hundred men of our Army killed and wounded, but we suffered an irreparable
loss in the death of our commander the brave Major General James Wolfe, who was killed in the
beginning of the general action; we had the good fortune not to hear of it till all was over.

"The French were supposed to have about one thousand men killed and wounded, of whom five hundred
killed during the whole day, and amongst these Monsieur le Lieutenant Général Montcalm, the
commander in chief of the French Army in Canada, one Brigadier General, one Colonel and several
other Officers. I imagined there had been many more killed and wounded on both sides, as there
was a heavy fire for some minutes, especially from us.

"Friday, 14th September.--We got ashore our tents and encamped our Regiment on the ground where
they fought the battle yesterday. He[re] we are within reach of the guns of the town.

"Saturday, 15th September.--We were ordered to move our Camp nigh the wood, at a greater distance
from the Town. We are making advanced redoubts within five hundred yards of the town."

Such is Fraser's account of the struggle on the Plains of Abraham and of the conduct of the
Highlanders in their first pitched battle in North America. The resolute preparations to attack
Quebec produced their effect. On September 18th the fortress surrendered. A little later the
army broke up the camp outside the walls and marched into the town. The outlook was certainly
not cheerful: "Most of the houses are destroyed and we have but a very dismal prospect for
seven or eight months, as fresh provisions are very scarce, and every other thing exorbitantly
dear." A little later the fleet sailed away and General Murray with a small force was left
in a hostile country to hold Quebec through a long and bitterly cold winter. He established
two out-posts, one at Ste. Foy, the other at Lorette, and then the army bent all its energies
to meet the foes, cold, disease and the French. Fighting the cold was terrible work. Fraser writes:

"December 1st.--The Governor ordered two weeks wood to be issued to the Garrison. It is thought
we shall have a great deal of difficulty in supplying ourselves with fuel this winter. The
winter is now very severe.

"December 20th.--The winter is become almost insupportably cold. The men are notwithstanding
obliged to drag all the wood used in the Garrison on sledges from St. Foy, about four miles
distance. This is a very severe duty; the poor fellows do it however with great spirit, tho'
several of them have already lost the use of their fingers and toes by the incredible severity
of the frost, and the country people tell us it is not yet at the worst. Some men on sentry
have been deprived of speech and sensation in a few minutes, but hitherto, no person has lost
his life, as care is taken to relieve them every half hour or oftener when the weather is very
severe. The Garrison in general are but indifferently cloathed, but our regiment in particular
is in a pitiful situation having no breeches, and the Philibeg is not all calculated for this
terrible climate. Colonel Fraser is doing all in his power to provide trowsers for them, and
we hope soon to be on a footing with other Regiments in that respect.

"January, 1760.--Nothing remarkable during this month. The duty is very severe on the poor
men; we mount every day a guard of about one hundred men, and the whole off duty with a subaltern
officer from each Regiment are employed in dragging fire wood; tho' the weather is such that
they are obliged to have all covered but their eyes, and nothing but the last necessity obliged
any men to go out of doors."

Early in February the St. Lawrence froze over. On February 13th the British established a force
in the Church at St. Joseph at Point Levi but it was attacked by the French and then, on February
24th, Murray sent a rescue party. The Highlanders and the 28th went across on the ice and nearly
intercepted the retreat of the French force, which was driven off. The kilted Highlanders marching
on the ice in the bitter winter weather make an interesting picture. But by this time, no doubt,
they were not bare-legged!

Towards the end of March there was much illness and Fraser writes: "The Scurvy, occasioned
by salt provisions and cold, has begun to make fierce havock in the garrison, and it becomes
every day more general. In short, I believe there is scarce a man of the Army entirely free
from it." On the 24th of April he writes again: "Great havock amongst the Garrison occasioned
by the Scurvy, &c.; this is the more alarming, as the General seems certain that the French
are preparing to come and attack the place, and will he says, be here in a very few days."

Of the garrison of 5653 no less than 2312 were on the sick list, when, on the 26th, came the
great crisis of the defence of Quebec:

"On the night of the 26th April, a man of the French army who, with some others had been cast
away in a boat that night, came down the river on a piece of ice, and being taken up next morning
at the Town, gave the General information that the chevalier de Levi [Lévis] was within twenty
miles of us, with an army of about twelve thousand men, made up of regulars, Canadians and savages.

"27th April, 1760.--The Governor marched out, with the Grenadiers and Piquets of the garrison,
to support the Light Infantry which had taken post some days before near Cap Rouge. By the
time he got out, the vanguard of the French army appeared; upon which, he thought it adviseable
to withdraw the Light Infantry, and all the other outposts, and retire to Town; and for that
purpose he sent orders to the 28th, 47th and 58th and Colonel Fraser's Regiment to march out
to St. Foy and cover his retreat; the 35th Regiment, 2nd Battalion Royal Americans having been
detached in the morning to prevent the enemy, in case they attempted to land at Sillery or
any other place near the Town. The retreat was accordingly effected without any loss, tho'
the enemy were so nigh as to skirmish with our rear till we got within half a league of the
Ramparts.

"On the 28th April, 1760, about eight o'clock in the morning, the whole Garrison, exclusive
of the Guards, was drawn up on the parade, and about nine o'clock we marched out of Town with
twenty pieces of Field Artillery, that is, two to each Regiment. The men were likewise ordered
to carry a pick axe or spade each. When we had marched a little way out of Town, we saw the
advanced parties of the Enemy nigh the woods, about half a league distant from us. When we
were about three-quarters of a mile out of Town, the General ordered the whole to draw up in
line of Battle, two deep, and take up as much room as possible. Soon thereafter, he ordered
the men to throw down the intrenching tools, and the whole Army to advance slowly, dressing
by the right, having drawn up the 35th Regiment and 3rd Battalion Royal Americans in our rear
as a corps of reserve, with one hundred men (in a redoubt which was begun by us a few days
preceding) to cover our retreat in case of necessity. In this order, we advanced, about one
hundred paces, when the canonading began on our side, and we observed the French advanced parties
retiring, and their main body forming in order of Battle at the edge of the wood, about three
hundred paces distant we continued canonading and advancing for some minutes. The enemy, on
their side, played against the left of our army, where our Regiment happened to be, with two
pieces of cannon and killed and wounded us some men. The affair begun now to turn serious,
when the General ordered the Light Infantry, who were posted on the right of our army, to attack
five companies of French Grenadiers who they obliged to retire, but they being supported by
a large column of the enemy, the Light Infantry were in their turn obliged to give way, which
they doing along the front of our line on the right (as I am told) hindered our men on the
right from firing for some minutes which gave the enemy full time to form. On the left, matters
were in a worse situation. The company of Volunteers of the garrison, commanded by Captain
Donald McDonald of our Regiment, and Captain Hazen's company of Rangers who covered the left
flank of our army having been almost entirely destroyed, were obliged to give way; by this
means the left of the 28th Regiment was exposed, and this obliged them to give ground after
an obstinate resistance; Colonel Fraser's Regiment was next them to the right, and being in
danger of being surrounded, and at the same time extremely galled by a fire from the Bushes
in front and flank, were under a necessity of falling back instantly, when Colonel Fraser who
commanded the Left Brigade consisting of the 28th, 47th and his own Regiment, sent orders to
the 47th to retire; they were drawn up with a small rising ground in their front, which till
then covered them pretty much from the enemy's fire, but as most of the Regiment to the right,
as well as the two Regiments to the left of them, had by this time retired, it was absolutely
necessary for the 47th to quit that ground, otherwise they must inevitably have been surrounded
in a few minutes. Most of the Regiments attempted to carry off their artillery, but the ground
was so bad with wreaths of snow in the hollows, that they were obliged to abandon them, after
nailing them up, as well as the intrenching tools. Every Regiment made the best of their way
to Town, but retired however in such a manner that the enemy did not think proper to pursue
very briskly, otherwise they must have killed or made prisoners many more than they did. Our
loss was about three hundred killed, and about seven hundred wounded, and a few Officers and
men made prisoners. We had about three thousand in the field, one-third of whom had that very
day, come voluntarily out of the Hospitals; of these, about five hundred were employed in dragging
the cannon, and five hundred more in reserve, so that we could have no more than two thousand
in the line of battle, whereas the enemy must have had at least four times as many, beside
a large body in reserve, and notwithstanding their great superiority we suffered very little
in the retreat; some Regiments attempted to rally, but it was impossible to form in any sort
of order with the whole, till we got within the walls.

"Our Regiment had about four hundred men in the field near one half of whom had that day come
out of the Hospital, out of their own accord. We had about sixty killed and forty wounded,
and of thirty-nine officers, Captain Donald McDonald who commanded the volunteer company of
the army, and Lieutenant Cosmo Gordon who commanded the Light Infantry company of our Regiment,
were both killed in the field; Lieutenant Hector McDonald and Ensign Malcolm Fraser died of
their wounds, all very much regretted by every one who knew them. We had twenty-three more
Officers wounded; of this number was Colonel [Simon] Fraser, who commanded the left wing of
the army, and it was with great pleasure we observed his behaviour during the action, when
he gave his orders with great coolness and deliberation. He was touched at two different times;
the first took him in the right breast but having his cartouche box slung, it luckily struck
against the star of it and did not penetrate tho', otherways, must infallibly have done his
business. The second, he got in the retreat, but striking against the cue of his hair, he received
no other damage than a stiffness in his neck for some days. [Fraser then adds this tribute
to Lord Lovat's son:] Here I cannot help observing that if any unlucky accident had befallen
our Colonel, not only his Regiment must have suffered an irreparable loss, but I think I can,
without any partiality say, it would be a loss to his Country. His behaviour this winter in
particular to his Regiment has been such, as to make him not only esteemed by them, but by
the Garrison in general. Captain Alexander Fraser of our Regiment, was wounded in the right
temple, and thought very dangerous, the rest are mostly flesh wounds. I received a musket ball
in the right groin, which was thought dangerous for three or four days, as the ball was supposed
to be lodged, but whether it has wrought out in walking into Town, or did not penetrate far
enough at first to lodge, or is still in, I cannot say, but in twenty days I was entirely cured,
and the wound which was at first but small was entirely closed up.

"When we marched out, we thought the General did not intend to give the French battle; and
as he ordered the Army to carry out intrenching tools, we thought he meant to throw up works
on the rising ground, before the Town, if the Enemy should not choose to attack him that day;
but, it seems he changed his mind on seeing their situation, which gave him all the advantage
he could desire with such an inferior Army and where, if the Enemy ventured to attack him,
he could use his Artillery, on which was his chief dependence, to the best purpose: having
a rising ground, whereon he might form his Army and plant his Cannon, so as to play on the
Enemy as they advanced for about four hundred or five hundred yards, with round shot, and when
they came within a proper distance the grape shot must have cut them to pieces. However, it
seems he observed the enemy, some formed at the edge of the wood, some forming, and the rest
marching from St. Foy. It would give me great pleasure to relate something more to the advantage
of this gentleman who is, in many respects, possessed of several virtues, and particularly
all the military ones, except prudence, and entirely free of all mercenary principles; but,
as his conduct on this occasion is universally condemned by all those who are not immediately
dependent on him, truth obliges me to state matters as I believe, they really stood; more especially
as it is not said he advised with any of those who had a right to be consulted before such
a step should be taken. Nay, it is said: that the preceding night, at a meeting with the different
Commandants of the Corps, he declared his intention of fortifying himself on the heights and
not to attack the Enemy, unless he should be forced to it, which we were persuaded of by his
orders to carry out intrenching tools. We had very little chance of beating an Army four times
our number [an exaggeration: they were not twice as numerous] in a situation where we could
scarce act; and if the Enemy had made a proper use of their advantage, the consequences must
have proved fatal to us, as they might have got betwixt us and the Town, cut off our retreat,
and by that means ruined us to all intents." [It will hardly be denied that the young officer
is rather severe upon his future friend and patron, General Murray.]

"Our situation became now extremely critical: we were beat in the field, by an army greatly
superior in numbers, and obliged to rely on what defence we could make within the walls of
Quebec, which were hitherto reckoned of very little consequence against a superior army.

"The French that very night after the Battle opened trenches within six hundred yards of the
walls, and went on next, 29th April, with their works pretty briskly. For the first two days
after the battle there was very little done by us; and on the 1st of May, the largest of our
block houses (small square redoubts of Logs musquet proof) was blown up by accident, and Captain
Cameron of our Regiment and a subaltern of the 48th with several men, dangerously burnt and
bruised. On the 3rd day after the battle, the General set about to strengthen or (I may say)
fortify the Town, and the men worked with the greatest alacrity. In a few days there were about
one hundred additional guns mounted, with which our people kept an incessant fire on the enemy,
and retarded their works very much.

"On the 9th May, the Leostaff Frigate, Captain Dean, arrived from England, and brought us news
from thence, and informed us that there was a squadron in the River, which might be expected
every tide to our assistance. This added greatly to the spirits of the Garrison, and our works
were carried on briskly. The General seemed resolved from the first to defend the place to
the last. This, nobody doubted, and every one seemed to forget their late misfortune, and to
place entire confidence in the General's conduct, which all must acknowledge very resolute,
when reduced almost to an extremity.

