The sufferings of soldiers, many of whom were militia, who were taken on the frontiers of Canada,
are not to be withheld from the public. They were first stripped by the savages in the British
service, and then driven before them, half naked to the city of Quebec; from thence they were
sent, in ill-provided transports, to Halifax, suffering all the way, the torments of hunger
and thirst. When they arrived at Melville prison, they were shocking objects to the prisoners
they found there; emaciated, weak, dirty, sickly, and but half clothed, they excited in us
all, commisseration for their great misery; and indignation, contempt and revenge, towards
the nation who could allow such barbarity. The cruel deception practised on their embarkation
for England, instead of going home; their various miseries on ship-board, where as landsmen,
they underwent infinitely more than the sailors; for many of them never had seen the salt ocean;
and their close confinement in the hold of a ship, gave them the idea of a floating hell. The
captivity of the sailors was sufficiently distressing; but it was nothing to that of the wretched
landsmen, who considered a ship at all times, a kind of dungeon. The transporting our soldiers
to England, and their sufferings during their passage, and while confined in that country,
has engendered a hatred against the British nation, that ages will not obliterate, and time
scarcely diminish. We, Americans, can never be justly accused of want of humanity to the English
prisoner.

If the young American wishes to see instances of British barbarity, let him peruse the journal
of the campaigns under Armherst, Wolfe, Abercromby and others; there he will find that the
British soldiers under these commanders, committed barbarities in the French villages, for
which they deserved to be hanged. They even boasted of scalping the French. Every body of ordinary
information in New England, knows that Louisbourg could not have been taken, without the powerful
aid of the New England troops; yet in the historical journal by Knox, sanctioned by general
Armherst, there is only the following gentlemanlike notice of our countrymen. The author, captain
Knox, says that the transport he was in, was in miss-stays, and was in danger of being dashed
to pieces on a ledge of rocks, when the master instantly fell on his knees, crying out--"what
shall we do? I vow, I fear we shall all be lost; let us go to prayers; what can we do, dear
Jonathan? Jonathan went forward muttering to himself--Do? I vow Ebenezar, I don't know what
we shall do any more than thyself!" When fortunately one of our soldiers (who was a thorough
bred seaman, and had served several years on board a ship of war, and afterwards in a privateer,)
hearing and seeing the helpless state of mind which our poor New Englandmen were under, and
our sloop drawing towards the shore, called out, "why, d--n your eyes and limbs, down with
her sails, and let her drive a--e foremost, what the devil signifies your praying and canting
now?" Ebenezar quickly taking the hint, called to Jonathan to lower the sails, saying he believed
that young man's advice was very good, but wished he had not delivered it so profanely!!--and
the soldier took the helm and saved the sloop. If captain John Knox should be living, the old
gentleman would blush should he read this extract.

I have frequently thought that the over-rated and highly boasted British bravery and humanity,
would find their graves in America. The treatment these soldiers experienced has stigmatised
the English character, and deservedly so. It is not in the power of words, and scarcely in
the power of the painter's pencil, to convey an idea of their wretchedness. They were covered
with rags, dirt, and vermin. They were, to us, objects of pity, but to all others, objects
of disgust; even we, their brothers, recoiled, at times, on approaching them. Was there any
design in this? Did our enemies wish to impress their countrymen with an abhorrence of a yankee?
How else can we account for a treatment which our people never experienced when prisoners of
the Indians? No--the savages never starve their prisoners, nor deprive them the use of water.
Dispirited, and every way disheartened, our poor fellows had, generally speaking, the aspect
of a cowardly, low spirited race of men, and much inferior to the British. We here saw how
wretched circumstances, in a short time, debases a brave and high spirited man. When people
from the shore visited our ship, and saw our miserable soldiers, we do not wonder that they
despised them. We sometimes had the mortification of hearing remarks in the Scotch accent,
to this effect: "So, these are samples of the brave yankees that took the Guerriere and Java;
it proves to a demonstration, that the American frigates were manned with British deserters."

The sailors often tried to spirit up the soldiers, and to encourage them to cleanliness; but
it was in vain, as most of them were depressed below the elasticity of their brave souls; yet
amidst their distress, not a man of them would listen to proposals to enter the British service.
Every one preferred death, and even wished for it. The Americans are a clean people in their
persons, as well as in their houses. None of them are so poor as to live in cabins, like the
Irish; or in cottages, like the Scotch; but they are brought up in houses having chimnies,
glass windows, separate and convenient rooms, and good bedding; and to all these comfortable
things we must add that the poorest of our countrymen eat meat once every day, and most of
them twice. To young men so brought up and nourished, a British captivity on board their horrid
transports, and even on board their prison-ships, is worse than death. If we, Americans, treat
British prisoners as they treat ours, let it be sounded through the world to our disgrace.
Should the war continue many years, I predict that few Americans will be taken alive by the
English.

After these poor fellows had received money and clothing from our government, they became cheerful,
clean, and many of them neat, and were no bad specimens of American soldiery. We are sorry
to again remark, that there was observed something repulsive between the soldier and the sailor.
The soldier thought himself better than the Jack tar, while the sailor, felt himself, on board
ship, a better fellow than the soldier; one was a fish in the water; the other a lobster out
of the water. The sailors always took the lead, because they were at home; while the dispirited
landsman felt himself a stranger in an enemy's land, even among his countrymen. It would be
well if all our sea and land commanders would exert themselves to break down the partition
wall that is growing up between our sailors and soldiers; they should be constantly reminded
that they are all children of one and the same great family, whereof the President of the United
States is Father; that they have all been taught to read the same bible, and to obey the same
great moral law of loving one another. I observed, with pain, that nothing vexed a sailor more,
than to be called by a brother tar, a soldier-looking son of a ----. This term of contempt
commonly led to blows. This mutual dislike bred difficulties in the government of ourselves,
and sometimes defeated our best regulations; for it split us into parties; and then we behaved
as bad as our superiors and richer brethren do on shore, neglecting the general interest to
indulge our own private views, and spirit of revenge. I thought our ship often resembled our
republic in miniature; for human nature is the same always, and only varies its aspect from
situation and circumstances.

It is now the latter end of September; the weather pretty pleasant, but not equal to our fine
Septembers and Octobers in New-England. We are, every hour, expecting orders to quit this river,
to return to our own dear country.

CHAPTER III.

October 2d, 1814.--We were now ordered to pick up our duds and get all ready to embark in certain
gun-brigs that had anchored along side of us; and an hundred of us were soon put on board,
and the tide favouring, we gently drifted down the river Medway. It rained, and not being permitted
to go below, and being thinly clad, we were wet to the skin. When the rain ceased, our commander
went below, and returned, in a short time, gaily equipped in his full uniform, cockade and
dirk. He mounted the poop, where he strutted about, sometimes viewing himself, and now and
then eyeing us, as if to see if we, too, admired him. He was about five feet high, with broad
shoulders, and portly belly. We concluded that he would afford us some fun; but we were mistaken;
for, with the body of Dr. Slop, he bore a round, ruddy, open and smiling countenance, expressive
of good nature and urbanity. The crew said, that although he was no seaman, he was a man, and
a better fellow never eat the king's bread; that they were happy under his command; and the
only dread they had was, that he, or they should be transferred to another ship. Does not this
prove that seamen can be better governed by kindness and good humor than by the boatswain's
cat? We would ask two of our own naval commanders, B. and C. whether they had not better try
the experiment? We should be very sorry if the infant navy of our young country, should have
the character of too much severity of discipline. To say that it is requisite is a libel on
our national character. Slavish minds alone require the lash.

On board this brig were two London mechanics, recently pressed in the streets of the capital
of the English nation--a nation that has long boasted of its liberty and humanity. These cocknies
wore long coats, drab-coloured velvet breeches, and grey stockings. They were constantly followed
by the boatswain's mate; who often impressed his lessons, and excited their activity with a
rope's end which he carried in his hat. The poor fellows were extremely anxious to avoid such
repeated hard arguments; and they kept at as great a distance from their tyrant as possible,
who seemed to delight in beating them. It appeared to me to be far out-doing in cruelty, the
Algerines. They looked melancholy, and at times, very sad. May America never become the greatest
of naval powers, if to attain it, she must allow a brutal sailor to treat a citizen, kidnapped
from his family in the streets of our cities, worse than we use a dog. I again repeat it, for
the thousandth time, the English are a hard hearted, cruel and barbarous race; and, on this
account alone, I have often been ashamed, that we, Americans, descended mostly from them. When
a man is ill used, it invites others to insult him. One of our prisoners, who had been treated
with a drink of grog, took out his knife, and, as the cockney's face was turned the other way,
cut off one skirt of his long coat. This excited peals of laughter. When the poor Londoner
saw that this was done by a roguish American, at the instigation of his own countrymen, the
tear stood in his eye. Even our jolly, big bellied captain, enjoyed the joke, and ordered the
boatswain's mate to cut off the other skirt, who, after viewing him amidst shouts of laughter,
damned him for a land lubber, and said, now he had lost his ring-tail, he looked like a gentleman
sailor.

