SEEING EUROPE WITH FAMOUS AUTHORS, VOLUME V

GERMANY, AUSTRIA-HUNGARY, AND SWITZERLAND, PART ONE

Selected and Edited, with Introductions, etc., by

FRANCIS W. HALSEY

Editor of "Great Epochs in American History" Associate Editor of "The World's Famous Orations"
and of "The Best of the World's Classics," etc.

IN TEN VOLUMES

ILLUSTRATED

1914

INTRODUCTION TO VOLUMES V AND VI

Germany, Austria-Hungary and Switzerland

The tourist's direct route to Germany is by ships that go to the two great German ports--Bremen
and Hamburg, whence fast steamer trains proceed to Berlin and other interior cities. One may
also land at Antwerp or Rotterdam, and proceed thence by fast train into Germany. Either of
these routes continued takes one to Austria. Ships by the Mediterranean route landing at Genoa
or Trieste, provide another way for reaching either country. In order to reach Switzerland,
the tourist has many well-worn routes available.

As with England and France, so with Germany--our earliest information comes from a Roman writer,
Julius Caesar; but in the case of Germany, this information has been greatly amplified by a
later and noble treatise from the pen of Tacitus. Tacitus paints a splendid picture of the
domestic virtues and personal valor of these tribes, holding them up as examples that might
well be useful to his countrymen. Caesar found many Teutonic tribes, not only in the Rhine
Valley, but well established in lands further west and already Gallic.

By the third century, German tribes had formed themselves into federations--the Franks, Alemanni,
Frisians and Saxons. The Rhine Valley, after long subjection to the Romans, had acquired houses,
temples, fortresses and roads such as the Romans always built. Caesar had found many evidences
of an advanced state of society. Antiquarians of our day, exploring German graves, discover
signs of it in splendid weapons of war and domestic utensils buried with the dead. Monolithic
sarcophagi have been found which give eloquent testimony of the absorption by them of Roman
culture. Western Germany, in fact, had become, in the third century, a well-ordered and civilized
land. Christianity was well established there. In general the country compared favorably with
Roman England, but it was less advanced than Roman Gaul. Centers of that Romanized German civilization,
that were destined ever afterward to remain important centers of German life, are Augsburg,
Strasburg, Worms, Speyer, Bonn and Cologne.

It was after the formation of the tribal federations that the great migratory movement from
Germany set in. This gave to Gaul a powerful race in the Franks, from whom came Clovis and
the other Merovingians; to Gaul also it gave Burgundians, and to England perhaps the strongest
element in her future stock of men--the Saxons. Further east soon set in another world-famous
migration, which threatened at times to dominate all Teutonic people--the Goths, Huns and Vandals
of the Black and Caspian Sea regions. Thence they prest on to Italy and Spain, where the Goths
founded and long maintained new and thriving states on the ruins of the old.

Surviving these migrations, and serving to restore something like order to Central Europe,
there now rose into power in France, under Clovis and Charlemagne, and spread their sway far
across the Rhine, the great Merovingian and Carlovingian dynasties. Charlemagne's empire came
to embrace in central Europe a region extending east of the Rhine as far as Hungary, and from
north to south from the German ocean to the Alps. When Charlemagne, in 800, received from the
Pope that imperial crown, which was to pass in continuous line to his successors for a thousand
years, Germany and France were component parts of the same state, a condition never again to
exist, except in part, and briefly, under Napoleon.

The tangled and attenuated thread of German history from Charlemagne's time until now can not
be unfolded here, but it makes one of the great chronicles in human history, with its Conrads
and Henrys, its Maximilian, its Barbarossa, its Charles V., its Thirty Years' War, its great
Frederick of Prussia, its struggle with Napoleon, its rise through Prussia under Bismarck,
its war of 1870 with France, its new Empire, different alike in structure and in reality from
the one called Holy and called Roman, and the wonderful commercial and industrial progress
of our century.

Out of Charlemagne's empire came the empire of Austria. Before his time, the history of the
Austro-Hungarian lands is one of early tribal life, followed by conquest under the later Roman
emperors, and then the migratory movements of its own people and of other people across its
territory, between the days of Attila and the Merovingians. Its very name (Oesterreich) indicates
its origin as a frontier territory, an outpost in the east for the great empire Charlemagne
had built up. Not until the sixteenth century did Austria become a power of first rank in Europe.
Hapsburgs had long ruled it, as they still do, and as they have done for more than six centuries,
but the greatest of all their additions to power and dominion came through Mary of Burgundy,
who, seeking refuge from Louis XI. of France, after her father's death, married Maximilian
of Austria. Out of that marriage came, in two generations, possession by Austria of the Netherlands,
through Mary's grandson, Charles V., Holy Roman emperor and king of Spain. For years afterward,
the Hapsburgs remained the most illustrious house in Europe. The empire's later fortunes are
a story of grim struggle with Protestants, Frederick the Great, the Ottoman Turks, Napoleon,
the revolutionists of 1848, and Prussia.

The story of Switzerland in its beginnings is not unlike that of other European lands north
of Italy. The Romans civilized the country--built houses, fortresses and roads. Roman roads
crossed the Alps, one of them going, as it still goes, over the Great St. Bernard. Then came
the invaders--Burgundians, Alemanni, Ostrogoths and Huns. North Switzerland became the permanent
home of Alemanni, or Germans, whose descendants still survive there, around Zürich. Burgundians
settled in the western part which still remains French in speech, and a part of it French politically,
including Chamouni and half of Mont Blanc. Ostrogoths founded homes in the southern parts,
and descendants of theirs still remain there, speaking Italian, or a sort of surviving Latin
called Romansch.

After these immigrations most parts of the country were subdued by the Merovingian Franks,
by whom Christianity was introduced and monasteries founded. With the break-up of Charlemagne's
empire, a part of Switzerland was added to a German duchy, and another part to Burgundy. Its
later history is a long and moving record of grim struggles by a brave and valiant people.
In our day the Swiss have become industrially one of the world's successful races, and their
country the one in which wealth is probably more equally distributed than anywhere else in
Europe, if not in America.

F.W.H.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME V

Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Switzerland--Part One

I. THE RHINE VALLEY

INTRODUCTION TO VOLS. V AND VI--By the Editor

IN HISTORY AND ROMANCE--By Victor Hugo

FROM BONN TO MAYENCE--By Bayard Taylor

COLOGNE--By Victor Hugo

ROUND ABOUT COBLENZ--By Lady Blanche Murphy

BINGEN AND MAYENCE--By Victor Hugo

FRANKFORT-ON-MAIN--By Bayard Taylor

HEIDELBERG--By Bayard Taylor

STRASBURG--By Harriet Beecher Stowe

FREIBURG AND THE BLACK FOREST--By Bayard Taylor

II. NUREMBERG

AS A MEDIEVAL CITY--By Cecil Headlam

ITS CHURCHES AND THE CITADEL--By Thomas Frognall Dibdin

NUREMBERG TO-DAY--By Cecil Headlarn

WALLS AND OTHER FORTIFICATIONS--By Cecil Headlam

ALBERT DÜRER--By Cecil Headlam

III. OTHER BAVARIAN CITIES

MUNICH--By Bayard Taylor

AUGSBURG--By Thomas Frognall Dibdin

RATISBON--By Thomas Frognall Dibdin

IV. BERLIN AND ELSEWHERE

A LOOK AT THE GERMAN CAPITAL--By Theophile Gautier

CHARLOTTENBURG--By Harriet Beecher Stowe

LEIPZIG AND DRESDEN--By Bayard Taylor

WEIMAR IN GOETHE'S DAY--By Madame De Staël

ULM--By Thomas Frognall Dibdin

AIX-LA-CHAPELLE AND CHARLEMAGNE'S TOMB--By Victor Hugo

THE HANSEATIC LEAGUE--By James Howell

HAMBURG--By Theophile Gautier

SCHLESWIG--By Theophile Gautier

LÜBECK--By Theophile Gautier

HELIGOLAND--By William George Black

V. VIENNA

FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF THE CAPITAL--By Bayard Taylor

ST. STEPHEN'S CATHEDRAL--By Thomas Frognall Dibdin

THE BELVEDERE PALACE--By Thomas Frognall Dibdin

SCHÖNBRUNN AND THE PRATER--By Thomas Frognall Dibdin

VI. HUNGARY

A GLANCE AT THE COUNTRY--By H. Tornai de Kövër

BUDAPEST--By H. Tornai de Kövër

(Hungary continued in Vol. VI)

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

VOLUME V

A PANORAMA OF BERLIN FROM THE TOWN HALL

COLOGNE CATHEDRAL

COLOGNE CATHEDRAL BEFORE THE SPIRES WERE COMPLETED

BINGEN-ON-THE RHINE

NUREMBERG CASTLE

STOLZENFELS CASTLE ON THE RHINE

WIESBADEN

STRASBURG CATHEDRAL

STRASBURG

FRAUENKIRCHE, MUNICH

DOOR OF STRASBURG CATHEDRAL

STRASBURG CLOCK

GOETHE'S HOUSE, WEIMAR

SCHILLER'S HOUSE, WEIMAR

BERLIN: UNTER DEN LINDEN

BERLIN: THE BRANDENBURG GATE

BERLIN: THE ROYAL CASTLE AND EMPEROR WILLIAM BRIDGE

BERLIN: THE WHITE HALL IN THE ROYAL CASTLE

BERLIN: THE NATIONAL GALLERY AND FREDERICK'S BRIDGE

BERLIN: THE GENDARMENMARKT

THE COLUMN OF VICTORY, BERLIN

THE MAUSOLEUM AT CHARLOTTENBURG

THE NEW PALACE AT POTSDAM

THE CASTLE OF SANS SOUCI, POTSDAM

THE CATHEDRAL OF AIX-LA-CHAPELLE--TOMB OF CHARLEMAGNE

SCHÖNBRUNN, VIENNA

SALZBURG, AUSTRIA

I

THE RHINE VALLEY

IN HISTORY AND ROMANCE[A]

BY VICTOR HUGO

Of all rivers, I prefer the Rhine. It is now a year, when passing the bridge of boats at Kehl,
since I first saw it. I remember that I felt a certain respect, a sort of adoration, for this
old, this classic stream. I never think of rivers--those great works of Nature, which are also
great in History--without emotion.

I remember the Rhone at Valserine; I saw it in 1825, in a pleasant excursion to Switzerland,
which is one of the sweet, happy recollections of my early life. I remember with what noise,
with what ferocious bellowing, the Rhone precipitated itself into the gulf while the frail
bridge upon which I was standing was shaking beneath my feet. Ah well! since that time, the
Rhone brings to my mind the idea of a tiger--the Rhine, that of a lion.

The evening on which I saw the Rhine for the first time, I was imprest with the same idea.
For several minutes I stood contemplating this proud and noble river--violent, but not furious;
wild, but still majestic. It was swollen, and was magnificent in appearance, and was washing
with its yellow mane, or, as Boileau says, its "slimy beard," the bridge of boats. Its two
banks were lost in the twilight, and tho its roaring was loud, still there was tranquillity.

The Rhine is unique: it combines the qualities of every river. Like the Rhone, it is rapid;
broad like the Loire; encased, like the Meuse; serpentine, like the Seine; limpid and green,
like the Somme; historical, like the Tiber; royal like the Danube; mysterious, like the Nile;
spangled with gold, like an American river; and like a river of Asia, abounding with fantoms
and fables.

From historical records we find that the first people who took possession of the banks of the
Rhine were the half-savage Celts, who were afterward named Gauls by the Romans. When Rome was
in its glory, Caesar crossed the Rhine, and shortly afterward the whole of the river was under
the jurisdiction of his empire. When the Twenty-second Legion returned from the siege of Jerusalem,
Titus sent it to the banks of the Rhine, where it continued the work of Martius Agrippa. After
Trajan and Hadrian came Julian, who erected a fortress upon the confluence of the Rhine and
the Moselle; then Valentinian, who built a number of castles. Thus, in a few centuries, Roman
colonies, like an immense chain, linked the whole of the Rhine.

At length the time arrived when Rome was to assume another aspect. The incursions of the northern
hordes were eventually too frequent and too powerful for Rome; so, about the sixth century,
the banks of the Rhine were strewed with Roman ruins, as at present with feudal ones.

Charlemagne cleared away the rubbish, built fortresses, and opposed the German hordes; but,
notwithstanding all that he did, notwithstanding his desire to do more, Rome died, and the
physiognomy of the Rhine was changed.

The sixteenth century approached; in the fourteenth the Rhine witnessed the invention of artillery;
and on its bank, at Strassburg, a printing-office was first established. In 1400 the famous
cannon, fourteen feet in length, was cast at Cologne; and in 1472 Vindelin de Spire printed
his Bible. A new world was making its appearance; and, strange to say, it was upon the banks
of the Rhine that those two mysterious tools with which God unceasingly works out the civilization
of man--the catapult and the book--war and thought--took a new form.

The Rhine, in the destinies of Europe, has a sort of providential signification. It is the
great moat which divides the north from the south. The Rhine for thirty ages, has seen the
forms and reflected the shadows of almost all the warriors who tilled the old continent with
that share which they call sword. Caesar crossed the Rhine in going from the south; Attila
crossed it when descending from the north. It was here that Clovis gained the battle of Tolbiac;
and that Charlemagne and Napoleon figured. Frederick Barbarossa, Rudolph of Hapsburg, and Frederick
the First, were great, victorious, and formidable when here. For the thinker, who is conversant
with history, two great eagles are perpetually hovering ever the Rhine--that of the Roman legions,
and the eagle of the French regiments.

The Rhine--that noble flood, which the Romans named "Superb," bore at one time upon its surface
bridges of boats, over which the armies of Italy, Spain, and France poured into Germany, and
which, at a later date, were made use of by the hordes of barbarians when rushing into the
ancient Roman world; at another, on its surface it floated peaceably the fir-trees of Murg
and of Saint Gall, the porphyry and the marble of Bâle, the salt of Karlshall, the leather
of Stromberg, the quicksilver of Lansberg, the wine of Johannisberg, the slates of Coab, the
cloth and earthenware of Wallendar, the silks and linens of Cologne. It majestically performs
its double function of flood of war and flood of peace, having, without interruption, upon
the ranges of hills which embank the most notable portion of its course, oak-trees on one side
and vine-trees on the other--signifying strength and joy.

[Footnote A: From "The Rhine."

[Footnote A: From "Views Afoot." Published by G.P. Putnam's Sons.]

COLOGNE[A]

BY VICTOR HUGO.

The sun had set when we reached Cologne. I gave my luggage to a porter, with orders to carry
it to a hotel at Duez, a little town on the opposite side of the Rhine; and directed my steps
toward the cathedral. Rather than ask my way, I wandered up and down the narrow streets, which
night had all but obscured. At last I entered a gateway leading to a court, and came out on
an open square--dark and deserted. A magnificent spectacle now presented itself. Before me,
in the fantastic light of a twilight sky, rose, in the midst of a group of low houses, an enormous
black mass, studded with pinnacles and belfries. A little farther was another, not quite so
broad as the first, but higher; a kind of square fortress, flanked at its angles with four
long detached towers, having on its summit something resembling a huge feather. On approaching,
I discovered that it was the cathedral of Cologne.

What appeared like a large feather was a crane, to which sheets of lead were appended, and
which, from its workable appearance, indicated to passers-by that this unfinished temple may
one day be completed; and that the dream of Engelbert de Berg, which was realized under Conrad
de Hochsteden, may, in an age or two, be the greatest cathedral in the world. This incomplete
Iliad sees Homers in futurity. The church was shut. I surveyed the steeples, and was startled
at their dimensions. What I had taken for towers are the projections of the buttresses. Tho
only the first story is completed, the building is already nearly as high as the towers of
Notre Dame at Paris. Should the spire, according to the plan, be placed upon this monstrous
trunk, Strasburg would be, comparatively speaking, small by its side.[B] It has always struck
me that nothing resembles ruin more than an unfinished edifice. Briars, saxifrages, and pellitories--indeed,
all weeds that root themselves in the crevices and at the base of old buildings--have besieged
these venerable walls. Man only constructs what Nature in time destroys.

All was quiet; there was no one near to break the prevailing silence. I approached the façade,
as near as the gate would permit me, and heard the countless shrubs gently rustling in the
night breeze. A light which appeared at a neighboring window, cast its rays upon a group of
exquisite statues--angels and saints, reading or preaching, with a large open book before them.
Admirable prologue for a church, which is nothing else than the Word made marble, brass or
stone! Swallows have fearlessly taken up their abode here, and their simple yet curious masonry
contrasts strangely with the architecture of the building. This was my first visit to the cathedral
of Cologne. The dome of Cologne, when seen by day, appeared to me to have lost a little of
its sublimity; it no longer had what I call the twilight grandeur that the evening lends to
huge objects; and I must say that the cathedral of Beauvais, which is scarcely known, is not
inferior, either in size or in detail, to the cathedral of Cologne.

The Hôtel-de-Ville, situated near the cathedral, is one of those singular edifices which have
been built at different times, and which consist of all styles of architecture seen in ancient
buildings. The mode in which these edifices have been built forms rather an interesting study.
Nothing is regular--no fixt plan has been drawn out--all has been built as necessity required.
Thus the Hôtel-de-Ville, which has, probably, some Roman cave near its foundation, was, in
1250, only a structure similar to those of our edifices built with pillars. For the convenience
of the night-watchman, and in order to sound the alarum, a steeple was required, and in the
fourteenth century a tower was built. Under Maximilian a taste for elegant structures was everywhere
spread, and the bishops of Cologne, deeming it essential to dress their city-house in new raiment,
engaged an Italian architect, a pupil, probably, of old Michael Angelo, and a French sculptor,
who adjusted on the blackened façade of the thirteenth century a triumphant and magnificent
porch. A few years expired, and they stood sadly in want of a promenade by the side of the
Registry. A back court was built, and galleries erected, which were sumptuously enlivened by
heraldry and bas-reliefs. These I had the pleasure of seeing; but, in a few years, no person
will have the same gratification, for, without anything being done to prevent it, they are
fast falling into ruins. At last, under Charles the Fifth, a large room for sales and for the
assemblies of the citizens was required, and a tasteful building of stone and brick was added.
I went up to the belfry; and under a gloomy sky, which harmonized with the edifice and with
my thoughts, I saw at my feet the whole of this admirable town.

From Thurmchen to Bayenthurme, the town, which extends upward of a league on the banks of the
river, displays a whole host of windows and façades. In the midst of roofs, turrets and gables,
the summits of twenty-four churches strike the eye, all of different styles, and each church,
from its grandeur, worthy of the name of cathedral. If we examine the town in detail, all is
stir, all is life. The bridge is crowded with passengers and carriages; the river is covered
with sails. Here and there clumps of trees caress, as it were, the houses blackened by time;
and the old stone hotels of the fifteenth century, with their long frieze of sculptured flowers,
fruit and leaves, upon which the dove, when tired, rests itself, relieve the monotony of the
slate roofs and brick fronts which surround them.

Round this great town--mercantile from its industry, military from its position, marine from
its river--is a vast plain that borders Germany, which the Rhine crosses at different places,
and is crowned on the northeast by historic eminences--that wonderful nest of legends and traditions,
called the "Seven Mountains." Thus Holland and its commerce, Germany and its poetry--like the
two great aspects of the human mind, the positive and the ideal--shed their light upon the
horizon of Cologne; a city of business and of meditation.

After descending from the belfry, I stopt in the yard before a handsome porch of the Renaissance,
the second story of which is formed of a series of small triumphal arches, with inscriptions.
The first is dedicated to Caesar; the second to Augustus; the third to Agrippa, the founder
of Cologne; the fourth to Constantine, the Christian emperor; the fifth to Justinian, the great
legislator; and the sixth to Maximilian. Upon the façade, the poetic sculpture has chased three
bas-reliefs, representing the three lion-combatants, Milo of Crotona, Pepin-le-Bref, and Daniel.
At the two extremities he has placed Milo of Crotona, attacking the lions by strength of body;
and Daniel subduing the lions by the power of mind. Between these is Pepin-le-Bref, conquering
his ferocious antagonist with that mixture of moral and physical strength which distinguishes
the soldier. Between pure strength and pure thought, is courage; between the athlete and the
prophet--the hero.

Pepin, sword in hand, has plunged his left arm, which is enveloped in his mantle, into the
mouth of the lion; the animal stands, with extended claws, in that attitude which in heraldry
represents the lion rampant. Pepin attacks it bravely and vanquishes. Daniel is standing motionless,
his arms by his side, and his eyes lifted up to Heaven, the lions lovingly rolling at his feet.
As for Milo of Crotona, he defends himself against the lion, which is in the act of devouring
him. His blind presumption has put too much faith in muscle, in corporeal strength. These three
bas-reliefs contain a world of meaning; the last produces a powerful effect. It is Nature avenging
herself on the man whose only faith is in brute force....

In the evening, as the stars were shining, I took a walk upon the side of the river opposite
to Cologne. Before me was the whole town, with its innumerable steeples figuring in detail
upon the pale western sky. To my left rose, like the giant of Cologne, the high spire of St.
Martin's, with its two towers; and, almost in front, the somber apsed cathedral, with its many
sharp-pointed spires, resembling a monstrous hedgehog, the crane forming the tail, and near
the base two lights, which appeared like two eyes sparkling with fire. Nothing disturbed the
stillness of the night but the rustling of the waters at my feet, the heavy tramp of a horse's
hoofs upon the bridge, and the sound of a blacksmith's hammer. A long stream of fire that issued
from the forge caused the adjoining windows to sparkle; then, as if hastening to its opposite
element, disappeared in the water.

[Footnote A: From "The Rhine." Translated by D.M. Aird.]

[Footnote B: One of the illustrations that accompany this volume shows the spires in their
completed state.]

ROUND ABOUT COBLENZ[A]

BY LADY BLANCHE MURPHY

Coblenz is the place which many years ago gave me my first associations with the Rhine. From
a neighboring town we often drove to Coblenz, and the wide, calm flow of the river, the low,
massive bridge of boats and the commonplace outskirts of a busy city contributed to make up
a very different picture from that of the poetic "castled" Rhine of German song and English
ballad. The old town has, however, many beauties, tho its military character looks out through
most of them, and reminds us that the Mosel city (for it originally stood only on that river,
and then crept up to the Rhine), tho a point of union in Nature, has been for ages, so far
as mankind was concerned, a point of defense and watching. The great fortress, a German Gibraltar,
hangs over the river and sets its teeth in the face of the opposite shore; all the foreign
element in the town is due to the deposits made there by troubles in other countries, revolution
and war sending their exiles, émigrés and prisoners. The history of the town is only a long
military record, from the days of the archbishops of Trèves, to whom it was subject....

There is the old "German house" by the bank of the Mosel, a building little altered outwardly
since the fourteenth century, now used as a food-magazine for the troops. The church of St.
Castor commemorates a holy hermit who lived and preached to the heathen in the eighth century,
and also covers the grave and monument of the founder of the "Mouse" at Wellmich, the warlike
Kuno of Falkenstein, Archbishop of Trèves. The Exchange, once a court of justice, has changed
less startlingly, and its proportions are much the same as of old; and besides these there
are other buildings worth noticing, tho not so old, and rather distinguished by the men who
lived and died there, or were born there, such as Metternich, than by architectural beauties.
Such houses there are in every old city. They do not invite you to go in and admire them; every
tourist you meet does not ask you how you liked them or whether you saw them. They are homes,
and sealed to you as such, but they are the shell of the real life of the country; and they
have somehow a charm and a fascination that no public building or show-place can have. Goethe,
who turned his life-experiences into poetry, has told us something of one such house not far
from Coblenz, in the village of Ehrenbreitstein, beneath the fortress, and which in familiar
Coblenz parlance goes by the name of "The Valley"--the house of Sophie de Laroche. The village
is also Clement Brentano's birthplace.

The oldest of German cities, Trèves (or in German Trier), is not too far to visit on our way
up the Mosel Valley, whose Celtic inhabitants of old gave the Roman legions so much trouble.
But Rome ended by conquering, by means of her civilization as well as by her arms, and Augusta
Trevirorum, tho claiming a far higher antiquity than Rome herself, and still bearing an inscription
to that effect on the old council-house--now called the Red House and used as a hotel--became,
as Ausonius condescendingly remarked, a second Rome, adorned with baths, gardens, temples,
theaters and all that went to make up an imperial capital. As in Venice everything precious
seems to have come from Constantinople, so in Trier most things worthy of note date from the
days of the Romans; tho, to tell the truth, few of the actual buildings do, no matter how classic
is their look. The style of the Empire outlived its sway, and doubtless symbolized to the inhabitants
their traditions of a higher standard of civilization.

The Porta Nigra, for instance--called Simeon's Gate at present--dates really from the days
of the first Merovingian kings, but it looks like a piece of the Colosseum, with its rows of
arches in massive red sandstone, the stones held together by iron clamps, and its low, immensely
strong double gateway, reminding one of the triumphal arches in the Forum at Rome. The history
of the transformation of this gateway is curious. First a fortified city gate, standing in
a correspondingly fortified wall, it became a dilapidated granary and storehouse in the Middle
Ages, when one of the archbishops gave leave to Simeon, a wandering hermit from Syracuse in
Sicily, to take up his abode there; and another turned it into a church dedicated to this saint,
tho of this change few traces remain. Finally, it has become a national museum of antiquities.
The amphitheater is a genuine Roman work, wonderfully well preserved; and genuine enough were
the Roman games it has witnessed, for, if we are to believe tradition, a thousand Frankish
prisoners of war were here given in one day to the wild beasts by the Emperor Constantine.
Christian emperors beautified the basilica that stood where the cathedral now is, and the latter
itself has some basilica-like points about it, tho, being the work of fifteen centuries, it
bears the stamp of successive styles upon its face....

The Mosel has but few tributary streams of importance; its own course is as winding, as wild
and as romantic as that of the Rhine itself. The most interesting part of the very varied scenery
of this river is not the castles, the antique towns, the dense woods or the teeming vineyards
lining rocks where a chamois could hardly stand--all this it has in common with the Rhine--but
the volcanic region of the Eifel, the lakes in ancient craters, the tossed masses of lava and
tufa, the great wastes strewn with dark boulders, the rifts that are called valleys and are
like the Iceland gorges, the poor, starved villages and the extraordinary rusticity, not to
say coarseness, of the inhabitants. This grotesque, interesting country--unique, I believe,
on the continent of Europe--lies in a small triangle between the Mosel, the Belgian frontier
and the Schiefer hills of the Lower Rhine; it goes by the names of the High Eifel, with the
High Acht, the Kellberg and the Nurburg; the upper (Vorder) Eifel, with Gerolstein, a ruined
castle, and Daun, a pretty village; and the Snow-Eifel (Schnee Eifel), contracted by the speech
of the country into Schneifel.

The last is the most curious, the most dreary, the least visited. Walls of sharp rocks rise
up over eight hundred feet high round some of its sunken lakes--one is called the Powder Lake--and
the level above this abyss stretches out in moors and desolate downs, peopled with herds of
lean sheep, and marked here and there by sepulchral, gibbet-looking signposts, shaped like
a rough T and set in a heap of loose stones. It is a great contrast to turn aside from this
landscape and look on the smiling villages and pretty wooded scenery of the valley of the Mosel
proper; the long lines of handsome, healthy women washing their linen on the banks; the old
ferryboats crossing by the help of antique chain-and-rope contrivances; the groves of old trees,
with broken walls and rude shrines, reminding one of Southern Italy and her olives and ilexes;
and the picturesque houses, in Kochem, in Daun, in Travbach, in Bernkastel, which, however
untiring one may be as a sightseer, hardly warrant one as a writer to describe and re-describe
their beauties. Klüsserath, however, we must mention, because its straggling figure has given
rise to a local proverb--"As long as Klüsserath;" and Neumagen, because of the legend of Constantine,
who is said to have seen the cross of victory in the heavens at this place, as well as at Sinzig
on the Rhine, and, as the more famous legend tells us, at the Pons Milvium over the Tiber.

The last glance we take at the beauties of this neighborhood is from the mouth of the torrent-river
Eltz as it dashes into the Eifel, washing the rock on which stands the castle of Eltz. The
building and the family are an exception in the history of these lands; both exist to this
day, and are prosperous and undaunted, notwithstanding all the efforts of enemies, time and
circumstances to the contrary. The strongly-turreted wall runs from the castle till it loses
itself in the rock, and the building has a home-like inhabited, complete look; which, in virtue
of the quaint irregularity and magnificent natural position of the castle, standing guard over
the foaming Eltz, does not take from its romantic appearance, as preservation or restoration
too often does.

Not far from Coblenz, and past the island of Nonnenwerth, is the old tenth-century castle of
Sayn, which stood until the Thirty Years' War, and below it, quiet, comfortable, large, but
unpretending, lies the new house of the family of Sayn-Wittgenstein, built in the year 1848.
As we push our way down the Rhine we soon come to the little peaceful town of Neuwied, a sanctuary
for persecuted Flemings and others of the Low Countries, gathered here by the local sovereign,
Count Frederick III. The little brook that gives its name to the village runs softly into the
Rhine under a rustic bridge and amid murmuring rushes, while beyond it the valley gets narrower,
rocks begin to rise over the Rhine banks, and we come to Andernach.

Andernach is the Rocky Gate of the Rhine, and if its scenery were not enough, its history,
dating from Roman times, would make it interesting. However, of its relics we can only mention,
in passing, the parish church with its four towers, all of tufa, the dungeons under the council-house,
significantly called the "Jew's bath," and the old sixteenth-century contrivances for loading
Rhine boats with the millstones in which the town still drives a fair trade. At the mouth of
the Brohl we meet the volcanic region again, and farther up the valley through which this stream
winds come upon the retired little watering-place of Tönnistein, a favorite goal of the Dutch,
with its steel waters; and Wassenach, with what we may well call its dust-baths, stretching
for miles inland, up hills full of old craters, and leaving us only at the entrance of the
beech-woods that have grown up in these cauldron-like valleys and fringe the blue Laachersee,
the lake of legends and of fairies. One of these Schlegel has versified in the "Lay of the
Sunken Castle," with the piteous tale of the spirits imprisoned; and Simrock tells us in rhyme
of the merman who sits waiting for a mortal bride; while Wolfgang Müller sings of the "Castle
under the Lake," where at night ghostly torches are lighted and ghostly revels are held, the
story of which so fascinates the fisherman's boy who has heard of these doings from his grandmother
that as he watches the enchanted waters one night his fancy plays him a cruel trick, and he
plunges in to join the revellers and learn the truth.

Local tradition says that Count Henry II. and his wife Adelaide, walking here by night, saw
the whole lake lighted up from within in uncanny fashion, and founded a monastery in order
to counteract the spell. This deserted but scarcely ruined building still exists, and contains
the grave of the founder; the twelfth-century decoration, rich and detailed, is almost whole
in the oldest part of the monastery. The far-famed German tale of Genovefa of Brabant is here
localized, and Henry's son Siegfried assigned to the princess as a husband, while the neighboring
grotto of Hochstein is shown as her place of refuge. On our way back to the Rocky Gate we pass
through the singular little town of Niedermendig, an hour's distance from the lake--a place
built wholly of dark gray lava, standing in a region where lava-ridges seam the earth like
the bones of antediluvian monsters, but are made more profitable by being quarried into millstones.
There is something here that brings part of Wales to the remembrance of the few who have seen
those dreary slate-villages--dark, damp, but naked, for moss and weeds do not thrive on this
dampness as they do on the decay of other stones--which dot the moorland of Wales. The fences
are slate; the gateposts are slate; the stiles are of slate; the very "sticks" up which the
climbing roses are trained are of slate; churches, schools, houses, stables are all of one
dark iron-blue shade; floors and roofs are alike; hearth-stones and threshold-stones, and grave-stones
all of the same material. It is curious and depressing. This volcanic region of the Rhine,
however, has so many unexpected beauties strewn pell-mell in the midst of stony barrenness
that it also bears some likeness to Naples and Ischia, where beauty of color, and even of vegetation,
alternate surprisingly with tracts of parched and rocky wilderness pierced with holes whence
gas and steam are always rising.

[Footnote A: From "Down the Rhine."]

BINGEN AND MAYENCE[A]

BY VICTOR HUGO

Bingen is an exceedingly pretty place, having at once the somber look of an ancient town, and
the cheering aspect of a new one. From the days of Consul Drusus to those of the Emperor Charlemagne,
from Charlemagne to Archbishop Willigis, from Willigis to the merchant Montemagno, and from
Montemagno to the visionary Holzhausen, the town gradually increased in the number of its houses,
as the dew gathers drop by drop in the cup of a lily. Excuse this comparison; for, tho flowery,
it has truth to back it, and faithfully illustrates the mode in which a town near the conflux
of two rivers is constructed. The irregularity of the houses--in fact everything, tends to
make Bingen a kind of antithesis, both with respect to buildings and the scenery which surrounds
them. The town, bounded on the left by Nahe, and by the Rhine on the right, develops itself
in a triangular form near a Gothic church, which is backed by a Roman citadel. In this citadel,
which bears the date of the first century, and has long been the haunt of bandits, there is
a garden; and in the church, which is of the fifteenth century, is the tomb of Barthélemy de
Holzhausen. In the direction of Mayence, the famed Paradise Plain opens upon the Ringau; and
in that of Coblentz, the dark mountains of Leyen seem to frown on the surrounding scenery.
Here Nature smiles like a lovely woman extended unadorned on the greensward; there, like a
slumbering giant, she excites a feeling of awe.

The more we examine this beautiful place, the more the antithesis is multiplied under our looks
and thoughts. It assumes a thousand different forms; and as the Nahe flows through the arches
of the stone bridge, upon the parapet of which the lion of Hesse turns its back to the eagle
of Prussia, the green arm of the Rhine seizes suddenly the fair and indolent stream, and plunges
it into the Bingerloch.

To sit down toward the evening on the summit of the Klopp--to see the town at its base, with
an immense horizon on all sides, the mountains overshadowing all--to see the slated roofs smoking,
the shadows lengthening, and the scenery breathing to life the verses of Virgil--to respire
at once the wind which rustles the leaves, the breeze of the flood, and the gale of the mountain--is
an exquisite and inexpressible pleasure, full of secret enjoyment, which is veiled by the grandeur
of the spectacle, by the intensity of contemplation. At the windows of huts, young women, their
eyes fixt upon their work, are gaily singing; among the weeds that grow round the ruins birds
whistle and pair; barks are crossing the river, and the sound of oars splashing in the water,
and unfurling of sails, reaches our ears. The washerwomen of the Rhine spread their clothes
on the bushes; and those of the Nahe, their legs and feet naked, beat their linen upon floating
rafts, and laugh at some poor artist as he sketches Ehrenfels.

The sun sets, night comes on, the slated roofs of the houses appear as one, the mountains congregate
and take the aspect of an immense dark body; and the washerwomen, with bundles on their heads,
return cheerfully to their cabins; the noise subsides, the voices are hushed; a faint light,
resembling the reflections of the other world upon the countenance of a dying man, is for a
short time observable on the Ehrenfels; then all is dark, except the tower of Hatto, which,
tho scarcely seen in the day, makes its appearance at night, amid a light smoke and the reverberation
of the forge....

Mayence and Frankfort, like Versailles and Paris, may, at the present time, be called one town.
In the middle ages there was a distance of eight leagues between them, which was then considered
a long journey; now, an hour and a quarter will suffice to transport you from one to the other.
The buildings of Frankfort and Mayence, like those of Liège, have been devastated by modern
good taste, and old and venerable edifices are rapidly disappearing, giving place to frightful
groups of white houses.

I expected to be able to see, at Mayence, Martinsburg, which, up to the seventeenth century,
was the feudal residence of the ecclesiastical electors; but the French made a hospital of
it, which was afterward razed to the ground to make room for the Porte Franc; the merchant's
hotel, built in 1317 by the famed League, and which was splendidly decorated with the statues
of seven electors, and surmounted by two colossal figures, bearing the crown of the empire,
also shared the same fate. Mayence possesses that which marks its antiquity--a venerable cathedral,
which was commenced in 978, and finished in 1009. Part of this superb structure was burned
in 1190, and since that period has, from century to century, undergone some change.

I explored its interior, and was struck with awe on beholding innumerable tombs, bearing dates
as far back as the eighteenth century. Under the galleries of the cloister I observed an obscure
monument, a bas-relief of the fourteenth century, and tried, in vain, to guess the enigma.
On one side are two men in chains, wildness in their looks, and despair in their attitudes;
on the other, an emperor, accompanied by a bishop, and surrounded by a number of people, triumphing.
Is it Barbarossa? Is it Louis of Bavaria? Does it speak of the revolt of 1160, or of the war
between Mayence and Frankfort in 1332? I could not tell, and therefore passed by.

As I was leaving the galleries, I discovered in the shade a sculptured head, half protruding
from the wall, surmounted by a crown of flower-work, similar to that worn by the kings of the
eleventh century. I looked at it; it had a mild countenance; yet it possest something of severity
in it--a face imprinted with that august beauty which the workings of a great mind give to
the countenance of man. The hand of some peasant had chalked the name "Frauenlob" above it,
and I instantly remembered the Tasso of Mayence, so calumniated during his life, so venerated
after his death. When Henry Frauenlob died, which was in the year 1318, the females who had
insulted him in life carried his coffin to the tomb, which procession is chiseled on the tombstone
beneath. I again looked at that noble head. The sculptor had left the eyes open; and thus,
in that church of sepulchers--in that cloister of the dead--the poet alone sees; he only is
represented standing, and observing all.

The market-place, which is by the side of the cathedral, has rather an amusing and pleasing
aspect. In the middle is a pretty triangular fountain of the German Renaissance, which, besides
having scepters, nymphs, angels, dolphins, and mermaids, serves as a pedestal to the Virgin
Mary. This fountain was erected by Albert de Brandenburg, who reigned in 1540, in commemoration
of the capture of Francis the First by Charles the Fifth.

Mayence, white tho it be, retains its ancient aspect of a beautiful city. The river here is
not less crowded with sails, the town not less incumbered with bales, nor more free from bustle,
than formerly. People walk, squeak, push, sell, buy, sing, and cry; in fact in all the quarters
of the town, in every house, life seems to predominate. At night the buzz and noise cease,
and nothing is heard at Mayence but the murmurings of the Rhine, and the everlasting noise
of seventeen water mills, which are fixt to the piles of the bridge of Charlemagne.

[Footnote A: From "The Rhine." Translated by D.M. Aird.]

FRANKFORT-AM-MAIN[A]

BY BAYARD TAYLOR

Frankfort is a genuine old German city. He agreed, and did it; and at the present time one
can distinguish a rude nine on the vane, as if cut with bullets, while two or three marks at
the side appear to be from shots that failed.

[Footnote A: From "Views Afoot." Published by G.P. Putnam's Sons.]

HEIDELBERG[A]

BY BAYARD TAYLOR

Here in Heidelberg at last, and a most glorious town it is. I forget exactly how many casks
it holds, but I believe eight hundred.

[Footnote A: From "Views Afoot."

[Footnote A: From "Sunny Memories of Foreign Lands." Mrs. Stowe published this work in 1854,
after returning from the tour she made soon after achieving great fame with "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

[Footnote A: From "Views Afoot." Published by G.P. Putnam's Sons.]

II

NUREMBERG

AS A MEDIEVAL CITY[A]

BY CECIL HEADLAM

In spite of all changes, and in spite of the disfigurements of modern industry, Nuremberg is
and will remain a medieval city, a city of history and legend, a city of the soul. She is like
Venice in this, as in not a little of her history, that she exercises an indefinable fascination
over our hearts no less than over our intellects. The subtle flavor of medieval towns may be
likened to that of those rare old ports which are said to taste of the grave; a flavor indefinable,
exquisite. Rothenburg has it; and it is with Rothenburg, that little gem of medievalism, that
Nuremberg is likely to be compared in the mind of the modern wanderer in Franconia. But tho
Rothenburg may surpass her greater neighbor in the perfect harmony and in the picturesqueness
of her red-tiled houses and well-preserved fortifications, in interest at any rate she must
yield to the heroine of this story.

For, apart from the beauty which Nuremberg owes to the wonderful grouping of her red roofs
and ancient castle, her coronet of antique towers, her Gothic churches and Renaissance buildings
or brown riverside houses dipping into the mud-colored Pegnitz, she rejoices in treasures of
art and architecture and in the possession of a splendid history such as Rothenburg can not
boast. To those who know something of her story Nuremberg brings the subtle charm of association.
While appealing to our memories by the grandeur of her historic past, and to our imaginations
by the work and tradition of her mighty dead, she appeals also to our senses with the rare
magic of her personal beauty, if one may so call it. In that triple appeal lies the fascination
of Nuremberg....

The facts as to the origin of Nuremberg are lost in the dim shadows of tradition. When the
little town sprang up amid the forests and swamps which still marked the course of the Pegnitz,
we know as little as we know the origin of the name Nürnberg. It is true that the chronicles
of later days are only too ready to furnish us with information; but the information is not
always reliable. The chronicles, like our own peerage, are apt to contain too vivid efforts
of imaginative fiction. The chroniclers, unharassed by facts or documents, with minds "not
by geography prejudiced, or warped by history," can not unfortunately always be believed. It
is, for instance, quite possible that Attila, King of the Huns, passed and plundered Nuremberg,
as they tell us. But there is no proof, no record of that visitation. Again, the inevitable
legend of a visit from Charlemagne occurs. He, you may be sure, was lost in the woods while
hunting near Nuremberg, and passed all night alone, unhurt by the wild beasts. As a token of
gratitude for God's manifest favor he caused a chapel to be built on the spot. The chapel stands
to this day--a twelfth-century building--but no matter! for did not Otho I., as our chroniclers
tell us, attend mass in St. Sebald's Church in 970, tho St. Sebald's Church can not have been
built till a century later?

The origin of the very name of Nuremberg is hidden in the clouds of obscurity. In the earliest
documents we find it spelt with the usual variations of early manuscripts--Nourenberg, Nuorimperc,
Niurenberg, Nuremberc, etc. The origin of the place, we repeat, is equally obscure. Many attempts
have been made to find history in the light of the derivations of the name. But when philology
turns historian it is apt to play strange tricks. Nur ein Berg (only a castle), or Nero's Castle,
or Norix Tower--what matter which is the right derivation, so long as we can base a possible
theory on it? The Norixberg theory will serve to illustrate the incredible quantity of misplaced
ingenuity which both of old times and in the present has been wasted in trying to explain the
inexplicable.

Be that as it may, the history of our town begins in the year 1050. It is most probable that
the silence regarding the place--it is not mentioned among the places visited by Conrad II.
in this neighborhood--points to the fact that the castle did not exist in 1025, but was built
between that year and 1050. That it existed then we know, for Henry III. dated a document from
here in 1050, summoning a council of Bavarian nobles "to his estate Nourinberc." The oldest
portion, called in the fifteenth century Altnürnberg, consisted of the Fünfeckiger Thurm--the
Five-cornered tower--the rooms attached and the Otmarkapelle. The latter was burned down in
1420, rebuilt in 1428, and called the Walpurgiskapelle. These constituted the Burggräfliche
Burg--the Burggraf's Castle. The rest of the castle was built on by Friedrich der Rotbart (Barbarossa),
and called the Kaiserliche Burg. The old Five-cornered tower and the surrounding ground was
the private property of the Burggraf, and he was appointed by the Emperor as imperial officer
of the Kaiserliche Burg. Whether the Emperors claimed any rights of personal property over
Nuremberg or merely treated it, at first, as imperial property, it is difficult to determine.
The castle at any rate was probably built to secure whatever rights were claimed, and to serve
generally as an imperial stronghold. Gradually around the castle grew up the straggling streets
of Nuremberg. Settlers built beneath the shadow of the Burg. The very names of the streets
suggest the vicinity of a camp or fortress. Söldnerstrasse, Schmiedstrasse, and so forth, betray
the military origin of the present busy commercial town. From one cause or another a mixture
of races, of Germanic and non-Germanic, of Slavonic and Frankish elements, seems to have occurred
among the inhabitants of the growing village, producing a special blend which in dialect, in
customs, and in dress was soon noticed by the neighbors as unique, and stamping the art and
development of Nuremberg with that peculiar character which has never left it.

Various causes combined to promote the growth of the place. The temporary removal of the Mart
from Fürth to Nuremberg under Henry III. doubtless gave a great impetus to the development
of the latter town. Henry IV., indeed, gave back the rights of Mart, customs and coinage to
Fürth. But it seems probable that these rights were not taken away again from Nuremberg. The
possession of a Mart was, of course, of great importance to a town in those days, promoting
industries and arts and settled occupations. The Nurembergers were ready to suck out the fullest
advantage from their privilege. That mixture of races, to which we have referred, resulted
in remarkable business energy--energy which soon found scope in the conduct of the business
which the natural position of Nuremberg on the south and north, the east and western trade
routes, brought to her. It was not very long before she became the center of the vast trade
between the Levant and Western Europe, and the chief emporium for the produce of Italy--the
"Handelsmetropole" in fact of South Germany.

Nothing in the Middle Ages was more conducive to the prosperity of a town than the reputation
of having a holy man within its borders, or the possession of the miracle-working relics of
a saint. Just as St. Elizabeth made Marburg so St. Sebaldus proved a very potent attraction
to Nuremberg. As early as 1070 and 1080 we hear of pilgrimages to Nuremberg in honor of her
patron saint.

Another factor in the growth of the place was the frequent visits which the Emperors began
to pay to it. Lying as it did on their way from Bamberg and Forcheim to Regensburg, the Kaisers
readily availed themselves of the security offered by this impregnable fortress, and of the
sport provided in the adjacent forest. For there was good hunting to be had in the forest which,
seventy-two miles in extent, surrounded Nuremberg. And hunting, next to war, was then in most
parts of Europe the most serious occupation of life. All the forest rights, we may mention,
of wood-cutting, hunting, charcoal burning and bee-farming belonged originally to the Empire.
But these were gradually acquired by the Nuremberg Council, chiefly by purchase in the fifteenth
century.

In the castle the visitor may notice a list of all the Emperors--some thirty odd, all told--who
have stayed there--a list that should now include the reigning Emperor. We find that Henry
IV. frequently honored Nuremberg with his presence. His last visit to Nuremberg was a sad one.
His son rebelled against him, and the old king stopt at Nuremberg to collect his forces. In
the war between father and son Nuremberg was loyal, and took the part of Henry IV. It was no
nominal part, for in 1105 she had to stand a siege from the young Henry. For two months the
town was held by the burghers and the castle by the Prefect Conrad. At the end of that time
orders came from the old Kaiser that the town was to surrender. He had given up the struggle,
and his undutiful son succeeded as Henry V. to the Holy Roman Empire, and Nuremberg with it.
The mention of this siege gives us an indication of the growth of the town. The fact of the
siege and the words of the chronicler, "The townsmen (oppidani) gave up the town under treaty,"
seem to point to the conclusion that Nuremberg was now no longer a mere fort (castrum), but
that walls had sprung up round the busy mart and the shrine of St. Sebald, and that by this
time Nuremberg had risen to the dignity of a "Stadt" or city state. Presently, indeed, we find
her rejoicing in the title of "Civitas" (state). The place, it is clear, was already of considerable
military importance or it would not have been worth while to invest it. The growing volume
of trade is further illustrated by a charter of Henry V. (1112) giving to the citizens of Worms
customs' immunity in various places subject to him, among which Frankfort, Goslar and Nuremberg
are named as royal towns ("oppida regis").

[Footnote A: From "The Story of Nuremberg."

In the neighborhood of Nuremberg--that is to say, scarcely more than an English mile from thence--are
the grave and tombstone of Albert Dürer. He was, in truth, the Shakespeare of his art--for
the period.

[Footnote A: From "A Bibliographical, Antiquarian and Picturesque Tour." Dibdin's tour was
made in 1821.]

NUREMBERG TO-DAY[A]

BY CECIL HEADLAM

Nuremberg is set upon a series of small slopes in the midst of an undulating, sandy plain,
some 900 feet above the sea. Here and there on every side fringes and patches of the mighty
forest which once covered it are still visible; but for the most part the plain is now freckled
with picturesque villages, in which stand old turreted châteaux, with gabled fronts and latticed
windows, or it is clothed with carefully cultivated crops or veiled from sight by the smoke
which rises from the new-grown forest of factory chimneys.

The railway sets us down outside the walls of the city. As we walk from the station toward
the Frauen Thor, and stand beneath the crown of fortified walls three and a half miles in circumference,
and gaze at the old gray towers and picturesque confusion of domes, pinnacles and spires, suddenly
it seems as if our dream of a feudal city has been realized. There, before us, is one of the
main entrances, still between massive gates and beneath archways flanked by stately towers.
Still to reach it we must cross a moat fifty feet deep and a hundred feet wide. True, the swords
of old days have been turned into pruning-hooks; the crenelles and embrasures which once bristled
and blazed with cannon are now curtained with brambles and wall-flowers, and festooned with
Virginia creepers; the galleries are no longer crowded with archers and cross-bowmen; the moat
itself has blossomed into a garden, luxuriant with limes and acacias, elders, planes, chestnuts,
poplars, walnut, willow and birch trees, or divided into carefully tilled little garden plots.
True it is that outside the moat, beneath the smug grin of substantial modern houses, runs
that mark of modernity, the electric tram.

But let us for the moment forget these gratifying signs of modern prosperity and, turning to
the left ere we enter the Frauen Thor, walk with our eyes on the towers which, with their steep-pitched
roofs and myriad shapes and richly colored tiles, mark the intervals in the red-bricked, stone-cased
galleries and mighty bastions, till we come to the first beginnings of Nuremberg--the Castle.
There, on the highest eminence of the town, stands that venerable fortress, crowning the red
slope of tiles. Roofs piled on roofs, their pinnacles, turrets, points and angles heaped one
above the other in a splendid confusion, climb the hill which culminates in the varied group
of buildings on the Castle rock. We have passed the Spittler, Mohren, Haller and Neu Gates
on our way, and we have crossed by the Hallerthorbrücke the Pegnitz where it flows into the
town. Before us rise the bold scarps and salient angles of the bastions built by the Italian
architect, Antonio Fazuni, called the Maltese (1538-43).

Crossing the moat by a wooden bridge which curls round to the right, we enter the town by the
Thiergärtnerthor. The right-hand corner house opposite us now is Albert Dürer's house. We turn
to the left and go along the Obere Schmiedgasse till we arrive at the top of a steep hill (Burgstrasse).
Above, on the left, is the Castle.

We may now either go through the Himmels Thor to the left, or keeping straight up under the
old trees and passing the "Mount of Olives" on the left, approach the large deep-roofed building
between two towers. This is the Kaiserstallung, as it is called, the Imperial stables, built
originally for a granary. The towers are the Luginsland (Look in the land) on the east, and
the Fünfeckiger Thurm, the Five-cornered tower, at the west end (on the left hand as we thus
face it). The Luginsland was built by the townspeople in the hard winter of 1377. The mortar
for building it, tradition says, had to be mixed with salt, so that it might be kept soft and
be worked in spite of the severe cold. The chronicles state that one could see right into the
Burggraf's Castle from this tower, and the town was therefore kept informed of any threatening
movements on his part.

To some extent that was very likely the object in view when the tower was built, but chiefly
it must have been intended, as its name indicates, to afford a far look-out into the surrounding
country. The granary or Kaiserstallung, as it was called later, was erected in 1494, and is
referred to by Hans Behaim as lying between the Five-cornered and the Luginsland Towers. Inside
the former there is a museum of curiosities (Hans Sachs' harp) and the famous collection of
instruments of torture and the Maiden (Eiserne Jungfrau). The open space adjoining it commands
a splendid view to the north. There, too, on the parapet-wall, may be seen the hoof-marks of
the horse of the robber-king, Ekkelein von Gailingen. Here for a moment let us pause, consider
our position, and endeavor to make out from the conflicting theories of the archeologists something
of the original arrangement of the castles and of the significance of the buildings and towers
that yet remain.

Stretching to the east of the rock on which the Castle stands is a wide plain, now the scene
of busy industrial enterprise, but in old days no doubt a mere district of swamp and forest.
Westward the rock rises by three shelves to the summit. The entrance to the Castle, it is surmised,
was originally on the east side, at the foot of the lower plateau and through a tower which
no longer exists.

Opposite this hypothetical gate-way stood the Five-cornered tower. The lower part dates, we
have seen, from no earlier than the eleventh century. It is referred to as Alt-Nürnberg (old
Nuremberg) in the Middle Ages. The title of "Five-cornered" is really somewhat a misnomer,
for an examination of the interior of the lower portion of the tower reveals the fact that
it is quadrangular. The pentagonal appearance of the exterior is due to the fragment of a smaller
tower which once leaned against it, and probably formed the apex of a wing running out from
the old castle of the Burggrafs. The Burggräfliche Burg stood below, according to Mummenhof,
southwest and west of this point. It was burned down in 1420, and the ruined remains of it
are supposed to be traceable in the eminence, now overgrown by turf and trees, through which
a sort of ravine, closed in on either side by built-up walls, has just brought us from the
town to the Vestner Thor.

The Burggraf's Castle would appear to have been so situated as to protect the approach to the
Imperial Castle (Kaiserburg). The exact extent of the former we can not now determine. Meisterlin
refers to it as a little fort. We may, however, be certain that it reached from the Five-cornered
tower to the Walpurgiskapelle. For this little chapel, east of the open space called the Freiung,
is repeatedly spoken of as being on the property of the Burggrafs. Besides their castle proper,
which was held at first as a fief of the Empire, and afterward came to be regarded as their
hereditary, independent property, the Burggrafs were also entrusted with the keeping of a tower
which commanded the entrance to the Castle rock on the country side, perhaps near the site
of the present Vestner Thor. The guard door may have been attached to the tower, the lower
portion of which remains to this day, and is called the Bailiff's Dwelling (Burgamtmannswohnung).
The exact relationship of the Burggraf to the town on the one hand, and to the Empire on the
other, is somewhat obscure. Originally, it would appear, he was merely an Imperial officer,
administering Imperial estates, and looking after Imperial interests. In later days he came
to possess great power, but this was due not to his position as castellan or castle governor
as such, but to the vast private property his position had enabled him to amass and to keep.

As the scope and ambitions of the Burggrafs increased, and as the smallness of their castle
at Nuremberg, and the constant friction with the townspeople, who were able to annoy them in
many ways, became more irksome, they gave up living at Nuremberg, and finally were content
to sell their rights and possessions there to the town. Beside the guard door of the Burggrafs,
which together with their castle passed by purchase into the hands of the town (1427), there
were various other similar guard towers, such as the one which formerly occupied the present
site of the Luginsland, or the Hasenburg at the so-called Himmels Thor, or a third which once
stood near the Deep Well on the second plateau of the Castle rock. But we do not know how many
of these there were, or where they stood, much less at what date they were built. All we do
know is that they, as well as the Burggrafs' possessions, were purchased in succession by the
town, into whose hands by degrees came the whole property of the Castle rock. Above the ruins
of the "little fort" of the Burggrafs rises the first plateau of the Castle rock. It is surrounded
by a wall, strengthened on the south side by a square tower against which leans the Walpurgiskapelle.

The path to the Kaiserburg leads under the wall of the plateau, and is entirely commanded by
it and by the quadrangular tower, the lower part of which alone remains and is known by the
name of Burgamtmannswohnung. The path goes straight to this tower, and at the foot of it is
the entrance to the first plateau. Then along the edge of this plateau the way winds southward,
entirely commanded again by the wall of the second plateau, at the foot of which there probably
used to be a trench. Over this a bridge led to the gate of the second plateau. The trench has
been long since filled in, but the huge round tower which guarded the gate still remains and
is the Vestner Thurm. The Vestner Thurm of Sinwel Thurm (sinwel = round), or, as it is called
in a charter of the year 1313, the "Middle Tower," is the only round tower of the Burg. It
was built in the days of early Gothic, with a sloping base, and of roughly flattened stones
with a smooth edge. It was partly restored and altered in 1561, when it was made a few feet
higher and its round roof was added. It is worth paying the small gratuity required for ascending
to the top. The view obtained of the city below is magnificent. The Vestner Thurm, like the
whole Imperial castle, passed at length into the care of the town, which kept its Tower watch
here as early as the fourteenth century.

The well which supplied the second plateau with water, the "Deep Well," as it is called, stands
in the center, surrounded by a wall. It is 335 feet deep, hewn out of the solid rock, and is
said to have been wrought by the hands of prisoners, and to have been the labor of thirty years.
So much we can easily believe as we lean over and count the six seconds that elapse between
the time when an object is dropt from the top to the time when it strikes the water beneath.
Passages lead from the water's edge to the Rathaus, by which prisoners came formerly to draw
water, and to St. John's Churchyard and other points outside the town. The system of underground
passages here and in the Castle was an important part of the defenses, affording as it did
a means of communication with the outer world and as a last extremity, in the case of a siege,
a means of escape.

Meanwhile, leaving the Deep Well and passing some insignificant modern dwellings, and leaving
beneath us on the left the Himmelsthor, let us approach the summit of the rock and the buildings
of the Kaiserburg itself. As we advance to the gateway with the intention of ringing the bell
for the castellan, we notice on the left the Double Chapel, attaching to the Heathen Tower,
the lower part of which is encrusted with what were once supposed to be Pagan images. The Tower
protrudes beyond the face of the third plateau, and its prominence may indicate the width of
a trench, now filled in, which was once dug outside the enclosing wall of the summit of the
rock. The whole of the south side of this plateau is taken up by the "Palast" (the vast hall,
two stories high, which, tho it has been repeatedly rebuilt, may in its original structure
be traced back as far as the twelfth century), and the "Kemnate" or dwelling-rooms which seem
to have been without any means of defense. This plateau, like the second, is supplied with
a well. But the first object that strikes the eye on entering the court-yard is the ruined
limetree, the branches of which once spread their broad and verdant shelter over the whole
extent of the quadrangle.

On leaving the Castle we find ourselves in the Burgstrasse, called in the old days Unter der
Veste, which was probably the High Street of the old town. Off both sides of this street and
of the Bergstrasse ran narrow crooked little alleys lined with wooden houses of which time
and fire have left scarcely any trace. As you wander round the city tracing the line of the
old walls, you are struck by the general air of splendor. Most of the houses are large and
of a massive style of architecture, adorned with fanciful gables and bearing the impress of
the period when every inhabitant was a merchant, and every merchant was lodged like a king.
The houses of the merchant princes, richly carved both inside and out, tell of the wealth and
splendor of Nuremberg in her proudest days. But you will also come upon a hundred crooked little
streets and narrow alleys, which, tho entrancingly picturesque, tell of yet other days and
other conditions.

They tell of those early medieval days when the houses were almost all of wood and roofed with
straw-thatching or wooden tiles; when the chimneys and bridges alike were built of wood. Only
here and there a stone house roofed with brick could then be seen. The streets were narrow
and crooked, and even in the fifteenth century mostly unpaved. In wet weather they were filled
with unfathomable mud, and even tho in the lower part of the town trenches were dug to drain
the streets, they remained mere swamps and morasses. In dry weather the dust was even a worse
plague than the mud. Pig-styes stood in front of the houses; and the streets were covered with
heaps of filth and manure and with rotting corpses of animals, over which the pigs wandered
at will. Street police in fact was practically non-existent. Medievalism is undoubtedly better
when survived.

[Footnote A: From "The Story of Nuremberg." Published by E.P. Dutton & Co.]

WALLS AND OTHER FORTIFICATIONS[A]

BY CECIL HEADLAM

A glance at the map will show us that Nuremberg, as we know it, is divided into two almost
equal divisions. They are called after the names of the principal churches, the St. Lorenz,
and the St. Sebald quarter. The original wall included, it will be seen, only a small portion
of the northern or St. Sebald division. With the growth of the town an extension of the walls
and an increase of fortification followed as a matter of course. It became necessary to carry
the wall over the Pegnitz in order to protect the Lorenzkirche and the suburb which was springing
up around it. The precise date of this extension of the fortifications can not be fixt. The
chronicles attribute it to the twelfth century, in the reign of the first Hohenstaufen, Konrad
III. No trace of a twelfth-century wall remains; but the chroniclers may, for all that, have
been not very wide of the mark. The mud and wood which supplied the material of the wall may
have given place to stone in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. However that may be,
it will be remembered that the lower part of the White Tower, which is the oldest fragment
of building we can certainly point to dates from the thirteenth century. All other portions
of the second wall clearly indicate the fourteenth century, or later, as the time of their
origin....

Beyond the White Tower the moat was long ago filled up, but the section of it opposite the
Unschlittplatz remained open for a longer period than the rest, and was called the Klettengraben,
because of the burdocks which took root there. Hereabouts, on a part of the moat, the Waizenbräuhaus
was built in 1671, which is now the famous Freiherrlich von Tuchersche Brewery. Here, too,
the Unschlitthaus was built at the end of the fifteenth century as a granary. It has since
been turned into a school.

We have now reached one of the most charming and picturesque bits of Nuremberg. Once more we
have to cross the Pegnitz, whose banks are overhung by quaint old houses. Their projecting
roofs and high gables, their varied chimneys and overhanging balconies from which trail rich
masses of creepers, make an entrancing foreground to the towers and the arches of the Henkersteg.
The wall was carried on arches over the southern arm of the Pegnitz to the point of the Saumarkt
(or Trödelmarkt) island which here divides the river, and thence in like manner over the northern
arm. The latter portion of it alone survives and comprises a large tower on the north bank
called the Wasserthurm, which was intended to break the force of the stream; a bridge supported
by two arches over the stream, which was the Henkersteg, the habitation of the hangman, and
on the island itself a smaller tower, which formed the point of support for the original, southern
pair of arches, which joined the Unschlitthaus, but were so badly damaged in 1595 by the high
flood that they were demolished and replaced by a wooden, and later by an iron bridge.

Somewhere in the second half of the fourteenth century, then, in the reign of Karl IV., they
began to build the outer enceinte, which, altho destroyed at many places and broken through
by modern gates and entrances, is still fairly well preserved, and secures to Nuremberg the
reputation of presenting most faithfully of all the larger German towns the characteristics
of a medieval town. The fortifications seem to have been thrown up somewhat carelessly at first,
but dread of the Hussites soon inspired the citizens to make themselves as secure as possible.
In times of war and rumors of war all the peasants within a radius of two miles of the town
were called upon to help in the construction of barriers and ramparts. The whole circle of
walls, towers, and ditches was practically finished by 1452, when with pardonable pride Tucher
wrote, "In this year was completed the ditch round the town. It took twenty-six years to build,
and it will cost an enemy a good deal of trouble to cross it." Part of the ditch had been made
and perhaps revetted as early as 1407, but it was not till twenty years later that it began
to be dug to the enormous breadth and depth which it boasts to-day. The size of it was always
a source of pride to Nurembergers, and it was perhaps due to this reason that up till as recently
as 1869 it was left perfectly intact. On the average it is about 100 feet broad.

It was always intended to be a dry ditch, and, so far from there being any arrangements for
flooding it, precautions were taken to carry the little Fischbach, which formerly entered the
town near the modern Sternthor, across the ditch in a trough. The construction of the ditch
was provided for by an order of the Council in 1427, to the effect that all householders, whether
male or female, must work at the ditch one day in the year with their children of over twelve
years of age, and with all their servants, male or female. Those who were not able to work
had to pay a substitute. Subsequently this order was changed to the effect that every one who
could or would not work must pay ten pfennige. There were no exemptions from this liturgy,
whether in favor of councillor, official, or lady. The order remained ten years in force, tho
the amount of the payment was gradually reduced....

At the time of the construction of these and the other lofty towers it was still thought that
the raising of batteries as much as possible would increase their effect. In practise the plunging
fire from platforms at the height of some eighty feet above the level of the parapets of the
town wall can hardly have been capable of producing any great effect, more especially if the
besieging force succeeded in establishing itself on the crest of the counterscarp of the ditches,
since from that point the swell of the bastions masked the towers. But there was another use
for these lofty towers. The fact is that the Nuremberg engineers, at the time that they were
built, had not yet adopted a complete system of flank-works, and not having as yet applied
with all its consequences the axiom that that which defends should itself be defended, they
wanted to see and command their external defenses from within the body of the place, as, a
century before, the baron could see from the top of his donjon whatever was going on round
the walls of his castle, and send up his support to any point of attack. The great round towers
of Nuremberg are more properly, in fact, detached keeps than portions of a combined system,
rather observatories than effective defenses.

The round towers, however, were not the sole defenses of the gates. Outside each one of them
was a kind of fence of pointed beams after the manner of a chevaux-de-frise, while outside
the ditch and close to the bridge stood a barrier, by the side of which was a guard-house.
Tho it was not till 1598 that all the main gates were fitted with drawbridges, the wooden bridges
that served before that could doubtless easily be destroyed in cases of emergency. Double-folding
doors and portcullises protected the gateways themselves. Once past there, the enemy was far
from being in the town, for the road led through extensive advanced works, presenting, as in
the case of the Laufer Thor outwork, a regular "place d'armes." Further, the road was so engineered
as not to lead in a straight line from the outer main gates to the inner ones, but rather so
as to pursue a circuitous course. Thus the enemy in passing through from the one to the other
were exposed as long as possible to the shots and projectiles of the defenders, who were stationed
all round the walls and towers flanking the advanced tambour. This arrangement may be traced
very clearly at the Frauen Thor to-day. The position of the round tower, it will be observed,
was an excellent one for commanding the road from the outer to the inner gate.

At intervals of every 120 or 150 feet the interior wall is broken by quadrilateral towers.
Some eighty-three of these, including the gate towers, can still be traced. What the number
was originally we do not know. It is the sort of subject on which chroniclers have no manner
of conscience. The Hartmann Schedel Chronicle, for instance, gives Nuremberg 365 towers in
all. The fact that there are 365 days in the year is of course sufficient proof of this assertion!
The towers, which rise two or even three stories above the wall, communicated on both sides
with the covered way. They are now used as dwelling-houses. On some of them there can still
be seen, projecting near the roof, two little machicoulis turrets, which served as guard-rooms
for observing the enemy, and also, by overhanging the base of the tower, enabled the garrison
to hurl down on their assailants at the foot of the wall a hurricane of projectiles of every
sort. Like the wall the towers are built almost entirely of sandstone, but on the side facing
the town they are usually faced with brick. The shapes of the roofs vary from flat to pointed,
but the towers themselves are simple and almost austere in form in comparison with those generally
found in North Germany, where fantasy runs riot in red brick. The Nuremberg towers were obviously
intended in the first place for use rather than for ornament.

At the end of our long perambulations of the walls it will be a grateful relief to sit for
a while at one of the "Restaurations" or restaurants on the walls. There, beneath the shade
of acacias in the daytime, or in the evening by the white light of incandescent gas, you may
sit and watch the groups of men, women, and children all drinking from their tall glasses of
beer, and you may listen to the whirr and ting-tang of the electric cars, where the challenge
of sentinels or the cry of the night-watchman was once the most frequent sound. Or, if you
have grown tired of the Horn- and the Schloss-zwinger, cross the ditch on the west side of
the town and make your way to the Rosenau, in the Fürtherstrasse. The Rosenau is a garden of
trees and roses not lacking in chairs and tables, in bowers, benches, and a band. There, too,
you will see the good burgher with his family drinking beer, eating sausages, and smoking contentedly.

[Footnote A: From "The Story of Nuremberg." Published by E.P. Dutton & Co.]

ALBERT DÜRER[A]

BY CECIL HEADLAM

Among the most treasured of Nuremberg's relics is the low-ceilinged, gabled house near the
Thiergärtnerthor, in which Albert Dürer lived and died, in the street now called after his
name. The works of art which he presented to the town, or with which he adorned its churches,
have unfortunately, with but few exceptions, been sold to the stranger. It is in Vienna and
Munich, in Dresden and Berlin, in Florence, in Prague, or the British Museum, that we find
splendid collections of Dürer's works. Not at Nuremberg. But here at any rate we can see the
house in which he toiled--no genius ever took more pains--and the surroundings which imprest
his mind and influenced his inspiration.

If, in the past, Nuremberg has been only too anxious to turn his works into cash, to-day she
guards Albert Dürer's house with a care and reverence little short of religious. She has sold,
in the days of her poverty and foolishness, the master's pictures and drawings, which are his
own best monument; but she has set up a noble monument to his memory (by Rauch, 1840) in the
Dürer Platz, and his house is opened to the public between the hours of 8 A.M. and 1 P.M.,
and 2 and 6 P.M. on week days. The Albert-Dürer-Haus Society has done admirable work in restoring
and preserving the house in its original state with the aid of Professor Wanderer's architectural
and antiquarian skill. Reproductions of Dürer's works are also kept here.

The most superficial acquaintance with Dürer's drawings will have prepared us for the sight
of his simple, unpretentious house and its contents. In his "Birth of the Virgin" he gives
us a picture of the German home of his day, where there were few superfluous knick-knacks,
but everything which served for daily use was well and strongly made and of good design. Ceilings,
windows, doors and door-handles, chests, locks, candlesticks, banisters, waterpots, the very
cooking utensils, all betray the fine taste and skilled labor, the personal interest of the
man who made them. So in Dürer's house, as it is preserved to-day, we can still see and admire
the careful simplicity of domestic furniture, which distinguishes that in the "Birth of the
Virgin." The carved coffers, the solid tables, the spacious window-seats, the well-fitting
cabinets let into the walls, the carefully wrought metal-work we see there are not luxurious;
their merit is quite other than that. In workmanship as in design, how utterly do they put
to shame the contents of the ordinary "luxuriously furnished apartments" of the present day!

And what manner of man was he who lived in this house that nestles beneath the ancient castle?
In the first place a singularly loveable man, a man of sweet and gentle spirit, whose life
was one of high ideals and noble endeavor. In the second place an artist who, both for his
achievements and for his influence on art, stands in the very front rank of artists, and of
German artists is "facile princeps." At whatever point we may study Dürer and his works we
are never conscious of disappointment. As painter, as author, as engraver, or simple citizen,
the more we know of him the more we are morally and intellectually satisfied. Fortunately,
through his letters and writings, his journals and autobiographical memoirs we know a good
deal about his personal history and education.

Dürer's grandfather came of a farmer race in the village of Eytas in Hungary. The grandfather
turned goldsmith, and his eldest son, Albrecht Dürer the elder, came to Nuremberg in 1455 and
settled in the Burgstrasse (No. 27). He became one of the leading goldsmiths of the town; married
and had eighteen children, of whom only three, boys, grew up. Albrecht, or as we call him Albert
Dürer, was the eldest of these. He was born May 21, 1471, in his father's house, and Anthoni
Koberger, the printer and bookseller, the Stein of those days, stood godfather to him. The
maintenance of so large a family involved the father, skilful artist as he was, in unremitting
toil.

His father, who was delighted with Albert's industry, took him from school as soon as he had
learned to read and write and apprenticed him to a goldsmith. "But my taste drew me toward
painting rather than toward goldsmithry. I explained this to my father, but he was not satisfied,
for he regretted the time I had lost." Benvenuto Cellini has told us how his father, in like
fashion, was eager that he should practise the "accurst art" of music. Dürer's father, however,
soon gave in and in 1486 apprenticed the boy to Michael Wolgemut. That extraordinary beautiful,
and, for a boy of that age, marvelously executed portrait of himself at the age of thirteen
(now at Vienna) must have shown the father something of the power that lay undeveloped in his
son. So "it was arranged that I should serve him for three years. During that time God gave
me great industry so that I learned many things; but I had to suffer much at the hands of the
other apprentices."

When in 1490 his apprenticeship was completed Dürer set out on his Wanderjahre, to learn what
he could of men and things, and, more especially, of his own trade. Martin Schongauer was dead,
but under that master's brothers Dürer studied and helped to support himself by his art at
Colmar and at Bâsle. Various wood-blocks executed by him at the latter place are preserved
there. Whether he also visited Venice now or not is a moot point. Here or elsewhere, at any
rate, he came under the influence of the Bellini, of Mantegna, and more particularly of Jacopo
dei Barbari--the painter and engraver to whom he owed the incentive to study the proportions
of the human body--a study which henceforth became the most absorbing interest of his life.

"I was four years absent from Nuremberg," he records, "and then my father recalled me. After
my return Hans Frey came to an understanding with my father. He gave me his daughter Agnes
and with her 200 florins, and we were married." Dürer, who writes so lovingly of his parents,
never mentions his wife with any affection; a fact which to some extent confirms her reputation
as a Xantippe. She, too, in her way, it is suggested, practised the art of cross-hatching.
Pirkheimer, writing after the artist's death, says that by her avariciousness and quarreling
nature she brought him to the grave before his day. She was probably a woman of a practical
and prosaic turn, to whom the dreamy, poetic, imaginative nature of the artist-student, her
husband, was intolerably irritating. Yet as we look at his portraits of himself--and no man
except Rembrandt has painted himself so often--it is difficult to understand how any one could
have been angry with Albert Dürer. Never did the face of man bear a more sweet, benign, and
trustful expression. In those portraits we see something of the beauty, of the strength, of
the weakness of the man so beloved in his generation. His fondness for fine clothes and his
legitimate pride in his personal beauty reveal themselves in the rich vestments he wears and
the wealth of silken curls, so carefully waved, so wondrously painted, falling proudly over
his free neck.

[Footnote A: From "The Story of Nuremberg."

The New Residence is not only one of the wonders of Munich, but of the world. Then follow the
celebrated Aegina marbles, from the temple of Jupiter Panhellenius, on the island of Aegina.

[Footnote A: From "Views Afoot." Published by G.P. Putnam's Sons.]

[Footnote B: This was written about 1848. The population of Munich is now (1914), 595,000.
The whole had a singularly novel and pleasing appearance.

[Footnote A: From "A Bibliographical, Antiquarian and Picturesque Tour," published in 1821.]

[Footnote B: Ratisbon has now (1914) a population of 53,000. Its manufactured products consist
chiefly of pottery and lead pencils.]

IV

BERLIN AND ELSEWHERE

A LOOK AT THE GERMAN CAPITAL[A]

BY THEOPHILE GAUTIER

The train spins along across great plains gilded by the setting sun; soon night comes, and
with it, sleep. At stations remote from one another, German voices shout German names; I do
not recognize them by the sound, and look for them in vain upon the map. Magnificent great
station buildings are shown up by gaslight in the midst of surrounding darkness, then disappear.
We pass Hanover and Minden; the train keeps on its way; and morning dawns.

On either side stretched a peat-moss, upon which the mist was producing a singular mirage.
We seemed to be upon a causeway traversing an immense lake whose waves crept up gently, dying
in transparent folds along the edge of the embankment. Here and there a group of trees or a
cottage, emerging like an island, completed the illusion, for such it was. A sheet of bluish
mist, floating a little above the ground and curling up along its upper surface under the rays
of the sun, caused this aqueous phantasmagoria, resembling the Fata Morgana of Sicily. In vain
did my geographical knowledge protest, disconcerted, against this inland sea, which no map
of Prussia indicates; my eyes would not give it up, and later in the day, when the sun, rising
higher, had dried up this imaginary lake, they required the presence of a boat to make them
admit that any body of water could be real.

Suddenly upon the left were massed the trees of a great park; Tritons and Nereids appeared,
dabbling in the basin of a fountain; there was a dome and a circle of columns rising above
extensive buildings; and this was Potsdam....

A few moments later we were in Berlin, and a fiacre set me down at the hotel. One of the keenest
pleasures of a traveler is that first drive through a hitherto unknown city, destroying or
confirming his preconceived idea of it. All that is peculiar and characteristic seizes upon
the yet virgin eye, whose perceptive power is never more clear.

My idea of Berlin had been drawn in great measure from Hoffman's fantastic stories. In spite
of myself, a Berlin, strange and grotesque, peopled with Aulic councillors, sandmen, Kreislers,
archivist Lindursts, and student Anselms, had reared itself within my brain, amid a fog of
tobacco-smoke; and there before me was a city regularly built, stately, with wide streets,
extensive public grounds, and imposing edifices of a style half-English, half-German, and modern
to the last degree.

As we drove along I glanced down into those cellars, with steps so polished, so slippery, so
well-soaped, that one might slide in as into the den of an ant-lion--to see if I might not
discover Hoffman himself seated on a tun, his feet crossed upon the bowl of his gigantic pipe,
and surrounded by a tangle of grotesque chimeras, as he is represented in the vignette of the
French translation of his stories; and, to tell the truth, there was nothing of the kind in
these subterranean shops whose proprietors were just opening their doors! The cats, of benignant
aspect, rolled no phosphorescent eyeballs, like the cat Murr in the story, and they seemed
quite incapable of writing their memoirs, or of deciphering a score of Richard Wagner's.

These handsome stately houses, which are like palaces, with their columns and pediments and
architraves, are built of brick for the most part, for stone seems rare in Berlin; but the
brick is covered with cement or tinted stucco, to simulate hewn stone; deceitful seams indicate
imaginary layers, and the illusion would be complete, were it not that in spots the winter
frosts have detached the cement, revealing the red shades of the baked clay. The necessity
of painting the whole façade, in order to mask the nature of the material, gives the effect
of enormous architectural decorations seen in open air. The salient parts, moldings, cornices,
entablatures, consoles, are of wood, bronze, or cast-iron, to which suitable forms have been
given; when you do not look too closely the effect is satisfactory. Truth is the only thing
lacking in all this splendor.

The palatial buildings which border Regent's Park in London present also these porticoes, and
these columns with brick cores and plaster-fluting, which, by aid of a coating of oil paint,
are expected to pass for stone or marble. Why not build in brick frankly, since its water-coloring
and capacity for ingeniously varied arrangement furnish so many resources? Even in Berlin I
have seen charming houses of this kind which had the advantage of being truthful. A fictitious
material always inspires a certain uneasiness.

The hotel is very well located, and I propose to sketch the view seen from its steps. It will
give a fair idea of the general character of the city. The foreground is a quay bordering the
Spree. A few boats with slender masts are sleeping on the brown water. Vessels upon a canal
or a river, in the heart of a city, have always a charming effect. Along the opposite quay
stretches a line of houses; a few of them are ancient, and bear the stamp thereof; the king's
palace makes the corner. A cupola upon an octagonal tower rises proudly above the other roofs,
the square sides of the tower adding grace to the curve of the dome.

A bridge spans the river, reminding me, with its white marble groups, of the Ponte San Angelo
at Rome. These groups--eight in number, if my memory does not deceive me--are each composed
of two figures; one allegorical, winged, representing the country, or glory; the other, a young
man, guided through many trials to victory or immortality. These groups, in purely classic
taste, are not wanting in merit, and show in some parts good study of the nude; their pedestals
are ornamented with medallions, whereon the Prussian eagle, half-real, half-heraldic, makes
a fine appearance. Considered as a decoration, the whole is, in my opinion, somewhat too rich
for the simplicity of the bridge, which opens midway to allow the passage of vessels.

Farther on, through the trees of a public garden of some kind, appears the old Museum, a great
structure in the Greek style, with Doric columns relieved against a painted background. At
the corners of the roof, bronze horses held by grooms are outlined upon the sky. Behind this
building, and looking sideways, you perceive the triangular pediment of the new Museum.

On crossing the bridge, the dark façade of the palace comes in view, with its balustraded terrace;
the carvings around the main entrance are in that old, exaggerated German rococo which I have
seen before and have admired in the palace in Dresden. This kind of barbaric taste has something
charming about it, and entertains the eye, satiated with chefs d'oeuvre. It has invention,
fancy, originality; and tho I may be censured for the opinion, I confess I prefer this exuberance
to the coldness of the Greek style imitated with more erudition than success in our modern
public buildings. At each side stand great bronze horses pawing the ground, and held by naked
grooms.

I visited the apartments of the palace; they are rich and elegant, but present nothing interesting
to the artist save their ancient recessed ceilings filled with curious figures and arabesques.
In the concert-hall there is a musicians' gallery in grotesque carving, silvered; its effect
is really charming. Silver is not used enough in decorations; it is a relief from the classic
gold, and forms admirable combinations with colors. The chapel, whose dome rises above the
rest of the building, is well planned and well lighted, comfortable, reasonably decorated.

Let us cross the square and take a look at the Museum, admiring, as we pass, an immense porphyry
vase standing on cubes of the same material, in front of the steps which lead up to the portico.
This portico is painted in fresco by various hands, under the direction of the celebrated Peter
Cornelius. The paintings form a broad frieze, folding itself back at each end upon the side
wall of the portico, and interrupted in the middle to give access to the Museum. The portion
on the left contains a whole poem of mythologic cosmogony, treated with that philosophy and
that erudition which the Germans carry into compositions of this kind; the right, purely anthropologie,
represents the birth, development, and evolution of humanity.

If I were to describe in detail these two immense frescoes, you would certainly be charmed
with the ingenious invention, the profound knowledge, and the excellent judgment of the artist.
The mysteries of the early creation are penetrated, and everything is faultlessly scientific.
Also, if I should show you them in the form of those fine German engravings, the lines heightened
by delicate shadows, the execution as accurate as that of Albrecht Dürer, the tone light and
harmonious, you would admire the ordering of the composition, balanced with so much art, the
groups skilfully united one to another, the ingenious episodes, the wise selection of the attributes,
the significance of each separate thing; you might even find grandeur of style, an air of magisterial
dignity, fine effects of drapery, proud attitudes, well-marked types, muscular audacities à
la Michel Angelo, and a certain Germanic savagery of fine flavor. You would be struck with
this free handling of great subjects, this vast conceptive power, this carrying out of an idea,
which French painters so often lack; and you would think of Cornelius almost as highly as the
Germans do. But in the presence of the work itself, the impression is completely different.

I am well aware that fresco-painting, even in the hands of the Italian masters, skilful as
they were in the technical details of their art, has not the charm of oil. The eye must become
habituated to this rude, lustreless coloring, before we can discern its beauties. Many people
who never say so--for nothing is more rare than the courage to avow a feeling or an opinion--find
the frescoes of the Vatican and the Sistine frightful; but the great names of Michel Angelo
and Raphael impose silence upon them; they murmur vague formulas of enthusiasm, and go off
to rhapsodize--this time with sincerity--over some Magdalen of Guido, or some Madonna of Carlo
Dolce. I make large allowance, therefore, for this unattractive aspect which belongs to fresco-painting;
but in this case, the execution is by far too repulsive. The mind may be content, but the eye
suffers. Painting, which is altogether a plastic art, can express its ideal only through forms
and colors. To think is not enough; something must be done....

I shall not now give an inventory of the Museum in Berlin, which is rich in pictures and statues;
to do this would require more space than is at my command. We find represented here, more or
less favorably, all the great masters, the pride of royal galleries. But the most remarkable
thing in this collection is the very numerous and very complete collection of the primitive
painters of all countries and all schools, from the Byzantine down to those which immediately
precede the Renaissance. The old German school, so little known in France, and on many accounts
so curious, is to be studied to better advantage here than anywhere else. A rotunda contains
tapestries after designs by Raphael, of which the original cartoons are now in Hampton Court.

The staircase of the new Museum is decorated with those remarkable frescoes by Kaulbach, which
the art of engraving and the Universal Exposition have made so well known in France. We all
remember the cartoon entitled "The Dispersion of Races," and all Paris has admired, in Goupil's
window that poetic "Defeat of the Huns," where the strife begun between the living warriors
is carried on amidst the disembodied souls that hover above that battlefield strewn with the
dead. "The Destruction of Jerusalem" is a fine composition, tho somewhat too theatrical. It
resembles a "close of the fifth act" much more than beseems the serious character of fresco
painting. In the panel which represents Hellenic civilization, Homer is the central figure;
this composition pleased me least of all. Other paintings as yet unfinished present the climacteric
epochs of humanity. The last of these will be almost contemporary, for when a German begins
to paint, universal history comes under review; the great Italian painters did not need so
much in achieving their master-pieces. But each civilization has its peculiar tendencies, and
this encyclopedic painting is a characteristic of the present time. It would seem that, before
flinging itself into its new career, the world has felt the necessity of making a synthesis
of its past....

This staircase, which is of colossal size, is ornamented with casts from the finest antiques.
Copies of the metopes of the Pantheon and friezes from the temple of Theseus are set into its
walls, and upon one of the landings stands the Pandrosion, with all the strong and tranquil
beauty of its Caryatides. The effect of the whole is very grand. At the present day there is
no longer any visible difference between the people of one country and of another. The uniform
domino of civilization is worn everywhere, and no difference in color, no special cut of the
garment, notifies you that you are away from home. The men and women whom I met in the street
escape description; the flâneurs of the Unter den Linden are exactly like the flâneurs of the
Boulevard des Italiens. This avenue, bordered by splendid houses, is planted, as its name indicates,
with lindens; trees "whose leaf is shaped like a heart," as Heinrich Heine remarks--a peculiarity
which makes Unter den Linden dear to lovers, and eminently suited for sentimental interviews.
At its entrance stands the equestrian statue of Frederick the Great. Like the Champs-Elysées
in Paris, this avenue terminates at a triumphal arch, surmounted by a chariot with four bronze
horses. Passing under the arch, we come out into a park in some degrees resembling the Bois
de Boulogne.

Along the edge of this park, which is shadowed by great trees having all the intensity of northern
verdure, and freshened by a little winding stream, open flower-crowded gardens, in whose depths
you can discern summer retreats, which are neither châlets, nor cottages, nor villas, but Pompeiian
houses with their tetrastylic porticos and panels of antique red. The Greek taste is held in
high esteem in Berlin. On the other hand, they seem to disdain the style of the Renaissance,
so much in vogue in Paris; I saw no edifice of this kind in Berlin.

Night came; and after paying a hasty visit to the zoological garden, where all the animals
were asleep, except a dozen long-tailed paroquets and cockatoos, who were screaming from their
perches, pluming themselves, and raising their crests, I returned to my hotel to strap my trunk
and betake myself to the Hamburg railway station, as the train would leave at ten, a circumstance
which prevented me from going, as I had intended, to the opera to hear Cherubini's "Deux Journées,"
and to see Louise Taglioni dance the Sevillana....

For the traveler there are but two ways: the instantaneous proof, or the prolonged study. Time
failed me for the latter. Deign to accept this simple and rapid impression.

[Footnote A: From "A Winter in Russia." By permission of, and by arrangement with, the publishers,
Henry Holt & Co. Copyright, 1874. Since Gautier wrote, Berlin has greatly increased in population
and in general importance. What is known as "Greater Berlin" now embraces about 3,250,000 souls.
Many of the quaint two-story houses, which formerly were characteristic of the city, have given
way to palatial houses and business blocks. Berlin is a thoroughly modern commercial city.

[Footnote A: From "Sunny Memories of Foreign Lands."]

[Footnote B: King Frederick William III. and Queen Louise are here referred to. Since Mrs.
Stowe's visit (1854) the Emperor William I. and the Empress Augusta have been buried in this
mausoleum.]

LEIPSIC AND DRESDEN[A]

BY BAYARD TAYLOR

I have now been nearly two days in wide-famed Leipsic, and the more I see of it, the better
I like it.

[Footnote A: From "Views Afoot." Published by G.P. Putnam's Sons.]

[Footnote B: A Prussian or Saxon thaler is about seventy cents. Author's note--The thaler went
out of use in Germany in 1906.]

WEIMAR IN GOETHE'S DAY[A]

BY MADAME DE STAËL

Of all the German principalities, there is none that makes us feel so much as Weimar the advantages
of a small state, of which the sovereign is a man of strong understanding, and who is capable
of endeavoring to please all orders of his subjects, without losing anything in their obedience.
Such a state is as a private society, where all the members are connected together by intimate
relations. The Duchess Louisa of Saxe Weimar is the true model of a woman destined by nature
to the most illustrious rank; without pretension, as without weakness, she inspires in the
same degree confidence and respect; and the heroism of the chivalrous ages has entered her
soul without taking from it any thing of her sex's softness. The military talents of the duke
are universally respected, and his lively and reflective conversation continually brings to
our recollection that he was formed by the great Frederic. It is by his own and his mother's
reputation that the most distinguished men of learning have been attracted to Weimar, and by
them Germany, for the first time, has possest a literary metropolis; but, as this metropolis
was at the same time only an inconsiderable town, its ascendency was merely that of superior
illumination; for fashion, which imposes uniformity in all things, could not emanate from so
narrow a circle.

Herder was just dead when I arrived at Weimar; but Wieland, Goethe, and Schiller were still
there. Their writings are the perfect resemblances of their character and conversation. This
very rare concordance is a proof of sincerity; when the first object in writing is to produce
an effect upon others, a man never displays himself to them, such as he is in reality; but
when he writes to satisfy an internal inspiration which has obtained possession of the soul,
he discovers by his works, even without intending it, the very slightest shades of his manner
of thinking and acting.

The residence in country towns has always appeared to me very irksome. The understanding of
the men is narrowed, the heart of the women frozen there; people live so much in each other's
presence that one is opprest by one's equals; it is no longer this distant opinion, the reverberation
of which animates you from afar like the report of glory; it is a minute inspection of all
the actions of your life, an observation of every detail, which prevents the general character
from being comprehended; and the more you have of independence and elevation of mind, the less
able you are to breathe amidst so many little impediments.

This painful constraint did not exist at Weimar; it was rather a large palace than a little
town; a select circle of society, which made its interest consist in the discussion of all
the novelties of art and science: women, the amiable scholars of some superior men, were constantly
speaking of the new literary works, as of the most important public events. They enjoyed the
whole universe by reading and study; they freed themselves by the enlargement of the mind from
the restraint of circumstances; they forgot the private anecdotes of each individual, in habitually
reflecting together on those great questions which influence the destiny common to all alike.
And in this society there were none of those provincial wonders, who so easily mistake contempt
for grace, and affectation for elegance.

Charlemagne was born at Aix-la-Chapelle, and died there. He was born in the old place, of which
there now only remains the tower, and he was buried in the church that he founded in 796, two
years after the death of his wife Fastrada. Leo the Third consecrated it in 804, and tradition
says that two bishops of Tongres, who were buried at Maestricht, arose from their graves, in
order to complete, at that ceremony, 365 bishops and archbishops--representing the days of
the year. This historical and legendary church, from which the town has taken its name, has
undergone, during the last thousand years, many transformations. No sooner had I entered Aix
than I went to the chapel.... The effect of the great "portail" is not striking; the façade
displays the different styles of architecture--Roman, Gothic, and modern--without order, and
consequently, without grandeur; but if, on the contrary, we arrive at the chapel by Chevet,
the result is otherwise. The high "abside" of the fourteenth century, in all its boldness and
beauty, the rich workmanship of its balustrades, the variety of its "gargouilles," the somber
hue of the stones, and the large transparent windows--strike the beholder with admiration.

Here, nevertheless, the aspect of the church--imposing tho it is--will be found far from uniform.
Between the "abside" and the "portail," in a kind of cavity, the dome of Otho III., built over
the tomb of Charlemagne in the tenth century, is hid from view. After a few moments' contemplation,
a singular awe comes over us when gazing at this extraordinary edifice--an edifice which, like
the great work that Charlemagne began, remains unfinished; and which, like his empire that
spoke all languages, is composed of architecture that represents all styles. To the reflective,
there is a strange analogy between that wonderful man and this great building.

After having passed the arched roof of the portico, and left behind me the antique bronze doors
surmounted with lions' heads, a white rotundo of two stories, in which all the "fantasies"
of architecture are displayed, attracted my attention. At casting my eyes upon the ground,
I perceived a large block of black marble, with the following inscription in brass letters:--

"Carolo Magno."

Nothing is more contemptible than to see, exposed to view, the bastard graces that surround
this great Carlovingian name; angels resembling distorted Cupids, palm-branches like colored
feathers, garlands of flowers, and knots of ribbons, are placed under the dome of Otho III.,
and upon the tomb of Charlemagne.

The only thing here that evinces respect to the shade of that great man is an immense lamp,
twelve feet in diameter, with forty-eight burners; which was presented, in the twelfth century,
by Barbarossa. It is of brass, gilt with gold, has the form of a crown, and is suspended from
the ceiling above the marble stone by an iron chain about seventy feet in length.

It is evident that some other monument had been erected to Charlemagne. There is nothing to
convince us that this marble, bordered with brass, is of antiquity. As to the letters, "Carolo
Magno," they are not of a late date than 1730.

Charlemagne is no longer under this stone. In 1166 Frederick Barbarossa--whose gift, magnificent
tho it was, does by no means compensate for this sacrilege--caused the remains of that great
emperor to be untombed. The Church claimed the imperial skeleton, and, separating the bones,
made each a holy relic. In the adjoining sacristy, a vicar shows the people--for three francs
seventy-five centimes--the fixt price--"the arm of Charlemagne"--that arm which held for a
time the reins of the world. Venerable relic! which has the following inscription, written
by some scribe of the twelfth century:

"Arm of the Sainted Charles the Great."

After that I saw the skull of Charlemagne, that cranium which may be said to have been the
mold of Europe, and which a beadle had the effrontery to strike with his finger.

All were kept in a wooden armory, with a few angels, similar to those I have just mentioned,
on the top. Such is the tomb of the man whose memory has outlived ten ages, and who, by his
greatness, has shed the rays of immortality around his name. "Sainted, Great," belong to him--two
of the most august epithets which this earth could bestow upon a human being.

There is one thing astonishing--that is, the largeness of the skull and arm. Charlemagne was,
in fact, colossal with respect to size of body as well as extraordinary mental endowments.
The son of Pepin-le-Bref was in body, as in mind, gigantic; of great corporeal strength, and
of astounding intellect.

An inspection of this armory has a strange effect upon the antiquary. Besides the skull and
arm, it contains the heart of Charlemagne; the cross which the emperor had round his neck in
his tomb; a handsome ostensorium, of the Renaissance, given by Charles the Fifth, and spoiled,
in the last century, by tasteless ornaments; fourteen richly sculptured gold plates, which
once ornamented the arm-chair of the emperor; an ostensorium, given by Philippe the Second;
the cord which bound our Savior; the sponge that was used upon the cross; the girdle of the
Holy Virgin, and that of the Redeemer.

In the midst of innumerable ornaments, heaped up in the armory like mountains of gold and precious
stones, are two shrines of singular beauty. One, the oldest, which is seldom opened, contains
the remaining bones of Charlemagne, and the other, of the twelfth century, which Frederick
Barbarossa gave to the church, holds the relics, which are exhibited every seven years. A single
exhibition of this shrine, in 1696, attracted 42,000 pilgrims, and drew, in ten days 80,000
florins. This shrine has only one key, which is in two pieces; the one is in the possession
of the chapter, the other in that of the magistrates of the town. Sometimes it is opened on
extraordinary occasions, such as on the visit of a monarch....

The tomb, before it became the sarcophagus of Charlemagne, was, it is said, that of Augustus.
After mounting a narrow staircase, my guide conducted me to a gallery which is called the Hochmünster.
In this place is the arm-chair of Charlemagne. It is low, exceedingly wide, with a round back;
is formed of four pieces of white marble, without ornaments or sculpture, and has for a seat
an oak board, covered with a cushion of red velvet. There are six steps up to it, two of which
are of granite, the others of marble. On this chair sat--a crown upon his head, a globe in
one hand, a scepter in the other, a sword by his side, the imperial mantle over his shoulders,
the cross of Christ round his neck, and his feet in the sarcophagus of Augustus--Carolus Magnus
in his tomb, in which attitude he remained for three hundred and fifty-two years--from 852
to 1166, when Frederick Barbarossa, coveting the chair for his coronation, entered the tomb.
Barbarossa was an illustrious prince and a valiant soldier; and it must, therefore, have been
a moment singularly strange when this crowned man stood before the crowned corpse of Charlemagne--the
one in all the majesty of empire, the other in all the majesty of death. The soldier overcame
the shades of greatness; the living became the despoliator of inanimate worth. The chapel claimed
the skeleton, and Barbarossa the marble chair, which afterward became the throne where thirty-six
emperors were crowned. Ferdinand the First was the last; Charles the Fifth preceded him.

In 1804, when Bonaparte became known as Napoleon, he visited Aix-la-Chapelle. Josephine, who
accompanied him, had the caprice to sit down on this chair; but Napoleon, out of respect for
Charlemagne, took off his hat, and remained for some time standing, and in silence. The following
fact is somewhat remarkable, and struck me forcibly. In 814 Charlemagne died; a thousand years
afterward, most probably about the same hour, Napoleon fell.

In that fatal year, 1814, the allied sovereigns visited the tomb of the great "Carolus." Alexander
of Russia, like Napoleon, took off his hat and uniform; Frederick William of Prussia kept on
his "casquette de petite tenue;" Francis retained his surtout and round bonnet. The King of
Prussia stood upon the marble steps, receiving information from the provost of the chapter
respecting the coronation of the emperors of Germany; the two emperors remained silent. Napoleon,
Josephine, Alexander, Frederick William, and Francis, are now no more.

A few minutes afterward I was on my way to the Hôtel-de-Ville, the supposed birthplace of Charlemagne,
which, like the chapel, is an edifice made of five or six others. In the middle of the court
there is a fountain of great antiquity, with a bronze statue of Charlemagne. To the left and
right are two others--both surmounted with eagles, their heads half turned toward the grave
and tranquil emperor.

The evening was approaching. I had passed the whole of the day among these grand and austere
"souvenirs;" and, therefore, deemed it essential to take a walk in the open fields, to breathe
the fresh air, and to watch the rays of the declining sun. I wandered along some dilapidated
walls, entered a field, then some beautiful alleys, in one of which I seated myself. Aix-la-Chapelle
lay extended before me, partly hid by the shades of evening, which were falling around. By
degrees the fogs gained the roofs of the houses, and shrouded the town steeples; then nothing
was seen but two huge masses--the Hôtel-de-Ville and the chapel. All the emotions, all the
thoughts and visions which flitted across my mind during the day, now crowded upon me. The
first of the two dark objects was to me only the birthplace of a child; the second was the
resting-place of greatness. At intervals, in the midst of my reverie, I imagined that I saw
the shade of this giant, whom we call Charlemagne, developing itself between this great cradle
and still greater tomb.

[Footnote A: From "The Rhine." Translated by D.M. Aird.]

THE HANSEATIC LEAGUE[A]

BY JAMES HOWELL

The Hans, or Hanseatic League, is very ancient, some would derive the word from hand, because
they of the society plight their faith by that action; others derive it from Hansa, which in
the Gothic tongue is council; others would have it come from Hander see, which signifies near
or upon the sea, and this passeth for the best etymology, because their towns are all seated
so, or upon some navigable river near the sea. The extent of the old Hans was from the Nerve
in Livonia to the Rhine, and contained sixty-two great mercantile towns, which were divided
into four precincts. The chiefest of the first precinct was Lübeck, where the archives of their
ancient records and their prime chancery is still, and this town is within that verge; Cullen
is chief of the second precinct, Brunswick of the third, and Dantzic of the fourth. The kings
of Poland and Sweden have sued to be their protector, but they refused them, because they were
not princes of the empire.

They put off also the King of Denmark with a compliment, nor would they admit the King of Spain
when he was most potent in the Netherlands, tho afterward, when it was too late, they desired
the help of the ragged staff; nor of the Duke of Anjou, notwithstanding that the world thought
he should have married our queen, who interceded for him, and so it was probable that thereby
they might recover their privileges in England. So I do not find that they ever had any protector
but the great Master of Prussia; and their want of a protector did do them some prejudice in
that famous difference they had with our Queen.

The old Hans had extraordinary immunities given them by our Henry the Third, because they assisted
him in his wars with so many ships, and as they pretend, the king was not only to pay them
for the service of the said ships but for the vessels themselves if they miscarried. Now it
happened that at their return to Germany, from serving Henry the Third, there was a great fleet
of them cast away, for which, according to covenant, they demanded reparation. Our king in
lieu of money, among other facts of grace, gave them a privilege to pay but one per cent.,
which continued until Queen Mary's reign, and she by advice of King Philip, her husband, as
it was conceived, enhanced the one to twenty per cent.

The Hans not only complained but clamored loudly for breach of their ancient privileges confirmed
unto them, time out of mind, by thirteen successive kings of England, which they pretended
to have purchased with their money. King Philip undertook to accommodate the business, but
Queen Mary dying a little after, and he retiring, there could be nothing done. Complaint being
made to Queen Elizabeth, she answered that as she would not innovate anything, so she would
maintain them still in the same condition she found them. Hereupon their navigation and traffic
ceased a while, wherefore the English tried what they could do themselves, and they thrived
so well that they took the whole trade into their own hands, and so divided themselves (tho
they be now but one), to staplers and merchant-adventurers, the one residing constant in one
place, where they kept their magazine of wool, the other stirring and adventuring to divers
places abroad with cloth and other manufacturies, which made the Hans endeavor to draw upon
them all the malignancy they could from all nations.

Moreover, the Hans towns being a body politic incorporated in the empire, complained thereof
to the emperor, who sent over persons of great quality to mediate an accommodation, but they
could effect nothing. Then the queen caused a proclamation to be published that the easterlings
or merchants of the Hans should be entreated and used as all other strangers were, within her
dominations, without any mark of difference in point of commerce. This nettled them more, thereupon
they bent their forces more eagerly, and in a diet at Ratisbon they procured that the English
merchants who had associated themselves into fraternities in Emden and other places should
be declared monopolists; and so there was a committal edict published against them that they
should be exterminated and banished out of all parts of the empire; and this was done by the
activity of one Sudennan, a great civilian.

There was there for the queen, Gilpin, as nimble a man as Suderman, and he had the Chancellor
of Emden to second and countenance him, but they could not stop the said edict wherein the
Society of English Merchant-Adventurers was pronounced to be a monopoly; yet Gilpin played
his game so well, that he wrought underhand, that the said imperial ban should not be published
till after the dissolution of the diet, and that in the interim the Emperor should send ambassadors
to England to advise the queen of such a ban against her merchants. But this wrought so little
impression upon the queen that the said ban grew rather ridiculous than formidable, for the
town of Emden harbored our merchants notwithstanding and afterward Stade, but they not being
able to protect them so well from the imperial ban, they settled in the town of Hamburg. After
this the queen commanded another proclamation to be divulged that the easterlings or Hanseatic
merchants should be allowed to trade in England upon the same conditions and payment of duties
as her own subjects, provided that the English merchants might have interchangeable privilege
to reside and trade peaceably in Stade or Hamburg or anywhere else within the precincts of
Hans. This incensed them more, thereupon they resolved to cut off Stade and Hamburg from being
members of the Hans or of the empire; but they suspended this decision till they saw what success
the great Spanish fleet should have, which was then preparing in the year eighty-eight, for
they had not long before had recourse to the King of Spain and made him their own, and he had
done them some material good offices; wherefore to this day the Spanish Consul is taxed of
improvidence and imprudence, that there was no use made of the Hans towns in that expedition.

The queen finding that they of the Hans would not be contented with that equality she had offered
betwixt them and her own subjects, put out a proclamation that they should carry neither corn,
victuals, arms, timber, masts, cables, minerals, nor any other materials, or men to Spain or
Portugal. And after, the queen growing more redoubtable and famous, by the overthrow of the
fleet of eighty-eight, the easterlings fell to despair of doing any good. Add hereunto another
disaster that befell them, the taking of sixty sails of their ships about the mouth of Tagus
in Portugal by the Queen's ships that were laden with "ropas de contrabando," viz., goods prohibited
by her former proclamation into the dominions of Spain. And as these ships were upon point
of being discharged, she had intelligence of a great assembly at Lübeck, which had met of purpose
to consult of means to be revenged of her thereupon she stayed and seized upon the said sixty
ships, only two were freed to bring news what became of the rest. Hereupon the Pope sent an
ambassador to her, who spoke in a high tone, but he was answered in a higher.

Ever since our merchants have beaten a peaceful and free uninterrupted trade into this town
and elsewhere within and without the Sound, with their manufactures of wool, and found the
way also to the White Sea to Archangel and Moscow. Insomuch that the premises being well considered,
it was a happy thing for England that that clashing fell out betwixt her and the Hans, for
it may be said to have been the chief ground of that shipping and merchandising, which she
is now come to, and wherewith she hath flourished ever since. But one thing is observable,
that as that imperial or committal ban, pronounced in the Diet at Ratisbon against our merchants
and manufactures of wool, incited them more to industry. So our proclamation upon Alderman
Cockein's project of transporting no white cloths but dyed, and in their full manufacture,
did cause both Dutch and Germans to turn necessity to a virtue, and made them far more ingenious
to find ways, not only to dye but to make cloth, which hath much impaired our markets ever
since. For there hath not been the third part of our cloth sold since, either here or in Holland.

[Footnote A: From "Familiar Letters." "Montaigne and 'Howell's Letters'," says Thackeray, in
one of the "Roundabout Papers," "are my bedside books." Howell wrote this letter in Hamburg
in October, 1632.]

HAMBURG[A]

BY THÉOPHILE GAUTIER

To describe a night journey by rail is a difficult matter; you go like an arrow whistling through
a cloud; it is traveling in the abstract. You cross provinces, kingdoms even, unawares. From
time to time during the night, I saw through the window the comet, rushing down upon the earth,
with lowered head and hair streaming far behind; suddenly glares of gaslight dazzled my eyes,
sanded with the goldust of sleep; or the pale bluish radiance of the moon gave an air of fairy-land
to scenes doubtless poor enough by day. Conscientiously, this is all I can say from personal
observation; and it would not be particularly amusing if I should transcribe from the railway
guide the names of all the stations between Berlin and Hamburg.

It is 7 a.m., and here we are in the good Hanse town of Hamburg; the city is not yet awake,
or at most is rubbing its eyes and yawning. While they are preparing my breakfast, I sally
forth at random, as my custom is, without guide or cicerone, in pursuit of the unknown.

The hotel, at which I have been set down, is situated on the quay of the Alster, a basin as
large as the Lac d'Enghien, which it still further resembles in being peopled with tame swans.
On three sides, the Alster basin is bordered with hotels and handsome modern houses. An embankment
planted with trees and commanded by a wind-mill in profile forms the fourth; beyond extends
a great lagoon. From the most frequented of these quays, a café painted green and built on
piles, makes out into the water, like that café of the Golden Horn where I have smoked so many
chibouques; watching the sea-birds fly. At the sight of this quay, this basin, these houses,
I experienced an inexplicable sensation: I seemed to know them already. Confused recollections
of them arose in my memory; could I have been in Hamburg without being aware of it? Assuredly
all these objects are not new to me, and yet I am seeing them for the first time. Have I preserved
the impression made by some picture, some photograph?

While I was seeking philosophic explanations for this memory of the unknown, the idea of Heinrich
Heine suddenly presented itself, and all became clear. The great poet had often spoken to me
of Hamburg, in those plastic words he so well knew how to use--words that were equivalent to
realities. In his "Reisebilder," he describes the scene--café basin, swans, and townsfolk upon
the quays--Heaven knows what portraits he makes of them! He returns to it again in his poem,
"Germania," and there is so much life to the picture, such distinctness, such relief, that
sight itself teaches you nothing more.

I made the circuit of the basin, graciously accompanied by a snow-white swan, handsome enough
to make one think it might be Jupiter in disguise, seeking some Hamburg Leda, and, the better
to carry out the deception, snapping at the bread-crumbs offered him by the traveler. On the
farther side of the basin, at the right, is a sort of garden or public promenade, having an
artificial hillock, like that in the labyrinth in the "Jardin des Plantes." Having gone thus
far, I turned and retraced my steps.

Every city has its fashionable quarter--new, expensive, handsome--of which the citizens are
proud, and through which the guide leads you with much complacency. The streets are broad and
regular, and cut one another at right angles; there are sidewalks of granite, brick, or bitumen;
there are lamp-posts in every direction. The houses are like palaces; their classically modern
architecture, their irreproachable paint, their varnished doors and well-scoured brasses, fill
with joy the city fathers and every lover of progress. The city is neat, orderly, salubrious,
full of light and air, and resembles Paris or London. There is the Exchange! It is superb--as
fine as the Bourse in Paris! I grant it; and, besides, you can smoke there, which is a point
of superiority.

Farther on you observe the Palace of Justice, the bank, etc., built in the style you know well,
adored by Philistines of every land. Doubtless that house must have cost enormously; it contains
all possible luxury and comfort. You feel that the mollusk of such a shell can be nothing less
than a millionaire. Permit me, however, to love better the old house with its overhanging stories,
its roof of irregular tiles, and all its little characteristic details, telling of former generations.
To be interesting, a city must have the air of having lived, and, in a sense, of having received
from man a soul. What makes these magnificent streets built yesterday so cold and so tiresome,
is that they are not yet impregnated with human vitality.

Leaving the new quarter, I penetrated by degrees into the chaos of the old streets, and soon
I had before my eyes a characteristic, picturesque Hamburg; a genuine old city with a medieval
stamp which would delight Bonington, Isabey or William Wyld. I walked slowly, stopping at every
street-corner that I might lose no detail of the picture; and rarely has any promenade amused
me so well.

Houses, whose gables are denticulated or else curved in volutes, throw out successive overhanging
stories, each composed of a row of windows, or, more properly, of one window divided into sections
by carved uprights. Beneath each house are excavated cellars, subterranean recesses, which
the steps leading to the front door bestride like a drawbridge. Wood, brick, stone and slate,
mingled in a way to content the eye of a colorist, cover what little space the windows leave
on the outside of the house. All this is surmounted by a roof of red or violet tiles, or tarred
plank, interrupted by openings to give light to the attics, and having an abrupt pitch. These
steep roofs look well against the background of a northern sky; the rains run off them in torrents,
the snow slips from them; they suit the climate, and do not require to be swept in winter.
Some houses have doors ornamented with rustic columns, scroll-work, recessed pediments, chubby-cheeked
caryatides, little angels and loves, stout rosettes and enormous shells, all glued over with
whitewash renewed doubtless every year.

The tobacco sellers in Hamburg can not be counted. At every third step you behold a bare-chested
negro cultivating the precious leaf or a Grand Seigneur, attired like the theatrical Turk,
smoking a colossal pipe. Boxes of cigars, with their more or less fallacious vignettes and
labels, figure, symmetrically disposed, in the ornamentation of the shop-fronts. There must
be very little tobacco left at Havana, if we can have faith in these displays, so rich in famous
brands.

As I have said, it was early morning. Servant-maids, kneeling on the steps or standing on the
window-sills, were going on with the Saturday scrubbing. Notwithstanding the keen air, they
made a display of robust arms bare to the shoulder, tanned and sunburned, red with that astonishing
vermilion that we see in some of Rubens' paintings, which is the joint result of the biting
of the north wind and the action of water upon these blond skins; little girls belonging to
the poorer classes, with braided hair, bare arms, and low-necked frocks, were going out to
obtain articles of food; I shivered in my paletot, to see them so lightly clad. There is something
strange about this; the women of northern countries cut their dresses out in the neck, they
go about bare-headed and bare-armed, while the women of the South cover themselves with vests,
haicks, pelisses, and warm garments of every description.

Walking on, still at random, I came to the maritime part of the city, where canals take the
place of streets. As yet it was low water, and vessels lay aground in the mud, showing their
hulls, and careening over in a way to rejoice a water-color painter. Soon the tide came up,
and everything began to be in motion. I would suggest Hamburg to artists following in the track
of Canaletto, Guardi, or Joyant; they will find, at every step, themes as picturesque as and
more new than those which they go to Venice in search of.

This forest of salmon-colored masts, with their maze of cordage and their yellowish-brown sails
drying in the sun, these tarred sterns with apple-green decks, these lateen-yards threatening
the windows of the neighboring houses, these derricks standing under plank roofs shaped like
pagodas, these tackles lifting heavy packages out of vessels and landing them in houses, these
bridges opening to give passage to vessels, these clumps of trees, these gables overtopped
here and there by spires and belfries; all this bathed in smoke, traversed by sunlight and
here and there returning a glitter of polished metal, the far-off distance blue and misty,
and the foreground full of vigorous color, produced effects of the most brilliant and piquant
novelty. A church-tower, covered with plates of copper, springing from this curious medley
of rigging and of houses, recalled to me by its odd green color the tower of Galata, at Constantinople....

As the hour advanced, the crowd became more numerous, and it was largely composed of women.
In Hamburg they seem to enjoy great license. Very young girls come and go alone without anyone's
noticing it, and--a remarkable thing!--children go to school by themselves, little basket on
the arm, and slate in hand; in Paris, left to their own free will, they will run off to play
marbles, tag, or hop-scotch.

Dogs are muzzled in Hamburg all the week, but on Sundays they are left at liberty to bite whom
they please. They are taxed, and appear to be esteemed; but the cats are sad and unappreciated.
Recognizing in me a friend, they cast melancholy glances at me, saying in their feline language,
to which long use has given me the key:

"These Philistines, busy with their money-getting, despise us; and yet our eyes are as yellow
as their louis d'or. Stupid men that they are, they believe us good for nothing but to catch
rats; we, the wise, the meditative, the independent, who have slept upon the prophet's sleeve,
and lulled his ear with the whir of our mysterious wheel! Pass your hand over our backs full
of electric sparkles--we allow you this liberty, and say to Charles Baudelaire that he must
write a fine sonnet, deploring our woes."

As the Lübeck boat was not to leave until the morrow, I went to Wilkin's to get my supper.
This famous establishment occupies a low-ceiled basement, which is divided into cabinets ornamented
with more show than taste. Oysters, turtle-soup, a truffled filet, and a bottle of Veuve Cliquot
iced, composed my simple bill of fare. The place was filled, after the Hamburg fashion, with
edibles of all sorts; things early and things out of season, dainties not yet in existence
or having long ceased to exist, for the common crowd. In the kitchen they showed us, in great
tanks, huge sea-turtles which lifted their scaly heads above the water, resembling snakes caught
between two platters. Their little horny eyes looked with uneasiness at the light which was
held near them, and their flippers, like oars of some disabled galley, vaguely moved up and
down, as seeking some impossible escape. I trust that the personnel of the exhibition changes
occasionally.

In the morning I went for my breakfast to an English restaurant, a sort of pavilion of glass,
whence I had a magnificent panoramic view. The river spread out majestically through a forest
of vessels with tall masts, of every build and tonnage. Steam-tugs were beating the water,
towing sailing-vessels out to sea; others, moving about freely, made their way hither and thither,
with that precision which makes a steam-boat seem like a conscious being, endowed by a will
of its own, and served by sentient organs. From the elevation the Elbe is seen, spreading broadly
like all great rivers as they near the sea. Its waters, sure of arriving at last, are in no
haste; placid as a lake, they flow with an almost invisible motion. The low opposite shore
was covered with verdure, and dotted with red houses half-effaced by the smoke from the chimneys.
A golden bar of sunshine shot across the plain; it was grand, luminous, superb.

[Footnote A: From "A Winter in Russia." By arrangement with, and by permission of, the publishers,
Henry Holt & Co. Copyright, 1874. Hamburg is now the largest seaport on the continent of Europe.
London and New York are the only ports in the world that are larger. Exclusive of its rural
territory, it had in 1905 a population of 803,000.]

SCHLESWIG[A]

BY THÉOPHILE GAUTIER

When you are in a foreign country, reduced to the condition of a deaf-mute, you can not but
curse the memory of him who conceived the idea of building the tower of Babel, and by his pride
brought about the confusion of tongues! An omnibus took possession of myself and my trunks,
and, with the feeling that it must of necessity take me somewhere, I confidingly allowed myself
to be stowed in and carried away. The intelligent omnibus set me down before the best hotel
in the town, and there, as circumnavigators say in their journals, "I held a parley with the
natives." Among them was a waiter who spoke French in a way that was transparent enough to
give me an occasional glimpse of his meaning; and who--a much rarer thing!--even sometimes
understood what I said to him.

My name upon the hotel register was a ray of light. The hostess had been notified of my expected
arrival, and I was to be sent for as soon as my appearance should be announced; but it was
now late in the evening, and I thought it better to wait till the next day. There was served
for supper a "chaud-froid" of partridge--without confiture--and I lay down upon the sofa, hopeless
of being able to sleep between the two down-cushions which compose the German and the Danish
bed....

I explored Schleswig, which is a city quite peculiar in its appearance. One wide street runs
the length of the town, with which narrow cross streets are connected, like the smaller bones
with the dorsal vertebræ of a fish. There are handsome modern houses, which, as usual, have
not the slightest character. But the more modest dwellings have a local stamp; they are one-story
buildings, very low--not over seven or eight feet in height--capped with a huge roof of fluted
red tiles. Windows, broader than they are high, occupy the whole of the front; and behind these
windows, spread luxuriantly in porcelain or faience or earthen flowerpots, plants of every
description; geraniums, verbenas, fuchsias--and this absolutely without exception. The poorest
house is as well adorned as the best. Sheltered by these perfumed window-blinds, the women
sit at work, knitting or sewing, and, out of the corner of their eye, they watch, in the little
movable mirror which reflects the streets, the rare passer-by, whose boots resound upon the
pavement. The cultivation of flowers seem to be a passion in the north; countries where they
grow naturally make but little account of them in comparison.

The church in Schleswig had in store for me a surprise. Protestant churches in general, are
not very interesting from an artistic point of view, unless the reformed faith may have installed
itself in some Catholic sanctuary diverted from its primitive designation. You find, usually,
only whitewashed naves, walls destitute of painting or bas-relief, and rows of oaken benches
well-polished and shining. It is neat and comfortable, but it is not beautiful. The church
at Schleswig contains, by a grand, unknown artist, an altar-piece in three parts, of carved
wood, representing in a series of bas-reliefs, separated by fine architectural designs, the
most important scenes in the drama of the Passion.

Around the church stand sepulchral chapels of fine funereal fancy and excellent decorative
effect. A vaulted hall contains the tombs of the ancient Dukes of Schleswig; massive slabs
of stone, blazoned with armorial devices, covered with inscriptions which are not lacking in
character.

In the neighborhood of Schleswig are great saline ponds, communicating with the sea. I paced
the high-road, remarking the play of light upon this grayish water, and the surface crisped
by the wind; occasionally I extended my walk as far as the chateau metamorphosed into a barrack,
and the public gardens, a miniature St. Cloud, with its cascade, its dolphins, and its other
aquatic monsters all standing idle. A very good sinecure is that of a Triton in a Louis Quinze
basin! I should ask nothing better myself. This German Venice has its canal, the Brenta, whose
villas, tho not built by Sanmichele or Palladio, none the less make a fine show against the
fresh green of their surroundings.

On arriving at Lübeck, a special omnibus received me and my luggage, and I was soon set down
at the hotel. The city seemed picturesque as I caught a glimpse of it through the darkness
by the vague light of lanterns; and in the morning, as I opened my chamber-window, I perceived
at once I had not been mistaken.

The opposite house had a truly German aspect. It was extremely high and overtopped by an old-fashioned
denticulated gable. At each one of the seven stories of the house, iron cross-bars spread themselves
out into clusters of iron-work, supporting the building, and serving at once for use and ornament,
in accordance with an excellent principle in architecture, at the present day too much neglected.
It is not by concealing the framework, but by making it distinct, that we obtain more character.

This house was not the only one of its kind, as I was able to convince myself on walking a
few steps out of doors. The actual Lübeck is still to the eye the Lübeck of the Middle Ages,
the old capital of the Hanseatic League.[B] All the drama of modern life is enacted in the
old theater whose scenery remains the same, its drop-scene even not repainted. What a pleasure
it is to be walking thus amid the outward life of the past, and to contemplate the same dwellings
which long-vanished generations have inhabited! Without doubt, the living man has a right to
model his shell in accordance with his own habits, his tastes, and his manners; but it can
not be denied that a new city is far less attractive than an old one.

When I was a child, I sometimes received for a New Year's present one of those Nuremberg boxes
containing a whole miniature German city. In a hundred different ways I arranged the little
houses of painted wood around the church, with its pointed belfry and its red walls, where
the seam of the bricks was marked by fine white lines. I set out my two dozen frizzed and painted
trees, and saw with delight the charmingly outlandish and wildly festal air which these apple-green,
pink, lilac, fawn-colored houses with their window-panes, their retreating gables, and their
steep roofs, brilliant with red varnish, assumed, spread out on the carpet.

My idea was that houses like these had no existence in reality, but were made by some kind
fairy for extremely good little boys. The marvelous exaggeration of childhood gave this little
parti-colored city a respectable development, and I walked through its regular streets, tho
with the same precautions as did Gulliver in Liliput. Lübeck gave back to me this long-forgotten
feeling of my childish days. I seemed to walk in a city of the imagination, taken out of some
monstrous toy-box. I believe, considering all the faultlessly correct architecture that I have
been forced to see in my traveler's life, that I really deserved that pleasure by way of compensation.

A cloister, or at least a gallery, a fragment of an ancient monastery, presented itself to
view. This colonnade ran the whole length of the square, at the end of which stood the Marienkirche,
a brick church of the fourteenth century. Continuing my walk, I found myself in a market-place,
where awaited me one of those sights which repay the traveler for much fatigue: a public building
of a new, unforeseen, original aspect, the old Stadthaus in which was formerly the Hanse hall,
rose suddenly before me.

It occupies two sides of the square. Imagine, in front of the Marienkirche, whose spires and
roof of oxydized copper rise above it, a lofty brick façade, blackened by time, bristling with
three bell-towers with pointed copper-covered roofs, having two great empty rose-windows, and
emblazoned with escutcheons inscribed in the trefoils of its ogives, double-headed black eagles
on a gold field, and shields, half gules, half argent, ranged alternately, and executed in
the most elaborate fashion of heraldry.

To this façade is joined a palazzino of the Renaissance, in stone and of an entirely different
style, its tint of grayish-white marvelously relieved by the dark-red background of old brick-work.
This building, with its three gables, its fluted Ionic columns, its caryatides, or rather its
Atlases (for they are human figures), its semicircular window, its niches curved like a shell,
its arcades ornamented with figures, its basement of diamond-shaped stones, produces what I
may call an architectural discord that is most unexpected and charming. We meet very few edifices
in the north of Europe of this style and epoch.

In the façade, the old German style prevails: arches of brick, resting upon short granite columns,
support a gallery with ogive-windows. A row of blazons, inclined from right to left, bring
out their brilliant color against the blackish tint of the wall. It would be difficult to form
an idea of the character and richness of this ornamentation.

This gallery leads into the main building, a structure than which no scene-painter, seeking
a medieval decoration for an opera, ever invented anything more picturesque and singular. Five
turrets, coiffed with roofs like extinguishers, raise their pointed tops above the main line
of the façade with its lofty ogive-windows--unhappily now most of them partially bricked up,
in accordance, doubtless, with the exigencies of alterations made within. Eight great disks,
having gold backgrounds, and representing radiating suns, double-headed eagles, and the shields,
gules and argent, the armorial bearings of Lübeck, are spread out gorgeously upon this quaint
architecture. Beneath, arches supported upon short, thick pillars yawn darkly, and from far
within there comes the gleam of precious metals, the wares of some goldsmith's shop.

Turning back toward the square again, I notice, rising above the houses, the green spires of
another church, and over the heads of some market-women, who are chaffering over their fish
and vegetables, the profile of a little building with brick pillars, which must have been a
pillory in its day. This gives a last touch to the purely Gothic aspect of the square which
is interrupted by no modern edifice. The ingenious idea occurred to me that this splendid Stadthaus
must have another façade; and so in fact it had; passing under an archway, I found myself in
a broad street, and my admiration began anew.

Five bell-towers, built half into the wall and separated by tall ogive-windows now partly blocked
up, repeated, with variations, the façade I have just described. Brick rosettes exhibited their
curious designs, spreading with square stitches, so to speak, like patterns for worsted work.
At the base of the somber edifice a pretty little lodge, of the Renaissance, built as an afterthought,
gave entrance to an exterior staircase going up along the wall diagonally to a sort of mirador,
or overhanging look-out, in exquisite taste. Graceful little statues of Faith and Justice,
elegantly draped, decorated the portico.

The staircase, resting on arches which widened as it rose higher, was ornamented with grotesque
masks and caryatides. The mirador, placed above the arched doorway opening upon the market-place,
was crowned with a recessed and voluted pediment, where a figure of Themis held in one hand
balances, and in the other a sword, not forgetting to give her drapery, at the same time, a
coquettish puff. An odd order formed of fluted pilasters fashioned like pedestals and supporting
busts, separated the windows of this aërial cage. Consoles with fantastic masks completed the
elegant ornamentation, over which Time had passed his thumb just enough to give to the carved
stone that bloom which nothing can imitate....

The Marienkirche, which stands, as I have said, behind the Stadt-haus, is well worth a visit.
Its two towers are 408 feet in height; a very elaborate belfry rises from the roof at the point
of intersection of the transept. The towers of Lübeck have the peculiarity, every one of them,
of being out of the perpendicular, leaning perceptibly to the right or left, but without disquieting
the eye, like the tower of Asinelli at Bologna, or the Leaning Tower of Pisa. Seen two or three
miles away, these towers, drunk and staggering, with their pointed caps that seem to nod at
the horizon, present a droll and hilarious silhouette.

On entering the church, the first curious object that meets the eye is a copy of the Todtentanz,
or Dance of Death, of the cemetery at Bâsle. I do not need to describe it in detail. The Middle
Ages were never tired of composing variations upon this dismal theme. The most conspicuous
of them are brought together in this lugubrious painting, which covers all the walls of one
chapel. From the Pope and the Emperor to the infant in his cradle, each human being in his
turn enters upon the dance with the inevitable terror. But death is not depicted as a skeleton,
white, polished, cleaned, articulated with copper wire like the skeleton of an anatomical cabinet:
that would be too ornamental for the vulgar crowd. He appears as a dead body in a more or less
advanced state of decomposition, with all the horrid secrets of the tomb carefully revealed....

The cathedral, which is called in German the Dom, is quite remarkable in its interior. In the
middle of the nave, filling one whole arch, is a colossal Christ of Gothic style, nailed to
a cross carved in open-work, and ornamented with arabesques. The foot of this cross rests upon
a transverse beam, going from one pillar to another, on which are standing the holy women and
other pious personages, in attitudes of grief and adoration; Adam and Eve, one on either side,
are arranging their paradisaic costume as decently as may be; above the cross the keystone
of the arch projects, adorned with flowers and leafage, and serves as a standing-place for
an angel with long wings. This construction, hanging in mid-air, and evidently light in weight,
notwithstanding its magnitude, is of wood, carved with much taste and skill. I can define it
in no better way than to call it a carved portcullis, lowered halfway in front of the chancel.
It is the first example of such an arrangement that I have ever seen....

The Holstenthor, a city gate close by the railway station, is a most curious and picturesque
specimen of German medieval architecture. Imagine two enormous brick towers united by the main
portion of the structure, through which opens an archway, like a basket-handle, and you have
a rude sketch of the construction; but you would not easily conceive of the effect produced
by the high summit of the edifice, the conical roofs of the towers, the whimsical windows in
the walls and in the roofs, the dull red or violet tints of the defaced bricks. It is altogether
a new gamut for painters of architecture or of ruins; and I shall send them to Lübeck by the
next train. I recommend to their notice also, very near the Holstenthor, on the left bank of
the Trave, five or six crimson houses, shouldering each other for mutual support, bulging out
in front, pierced with six or seven stories of windows, with denticulated gables, the deep
red reflection of them trailing in the water, like some high-colored apron which a servant-maid
is washing. What a picture Van den Heyden would have made of this!

Following the quay, along which runs a railway, where freight-trains were constantly passing,
I enjoyed many amusing and varied scenes. On the other side of the Trave were to be seen, amid
houses and clumps of trees, vessels in various stages of building. Here, a skeleton with ribs
of wood, like the carcass of some stranded whale; there, a hull, clad with its planking near
which smokes the calker's cauldron, emitting light yellowish clouds. Everywhere prevails a
cheerful stir of busy life. Carpenters are planing and hammering, porters are rolling casks,
sailors are scrubbing the decks of vessels, or getting the sails half way up to dry them in
the sun. A barque just arriving comes alongside the quay, the other vessels making room for
her to pass. The little steamboats are getting up steam or letting it off; and when you turn
toward the city, through the rigging of the vessels, you see the church-towers, which incline
gracefully, like the masts of clippers. Other misfortunes came with the Thirty Years' War.
As early as 1425, one of the constant sources of Lübeck's wealth had begun to fail her--the
herring, which was found to be deserting Baltic waters. The discovery by the Portuguese of
a route to India by the Cape of Good Hope was another cause of Lübeck's decline.]

HELIGOLAND[A]

BY WILLIAM GEORGE BLACK

In Heligoland itself there are few trees, no running water, no romantic ruins, but an extraordinary
width of sea-view, seen as from the deck of a gigantic ship; and yet the island is so small
that one can look around it all, and take the sea-line in one great circle.

Seen from a distance, as one must first see it, Heligoland is little more than a cloud on the
horizon; but as the steamer approaches nearer, the island stands up, a red rock in the ocean,
without companion or neighbor. A small ledge of white strand to the south is the only spot
where boats can land, and on this ledge nestle many white-walled, red-roofed houses; while
on the rim of the rock, nearly two hundred feet above, is a sister hamlet, with the church-tower
and lighthouse for central ornaments.

On the Unterland are the principal streets and shops, on the Oberland are many of the best
hotels and government-house. As there is no harbor, passengers reach the shore in large boats,
and get their first glimpse of the hardy, sun-browned natives in the boatmen who, with bright
jackets and hats of every picturesque curve that straw is capable of, pull the boat quickly
to the steps of the little pier. Crowds of visitors line the way, but one gets quickly through,
and in a few minutes returns either to familiar quarters in the Oberland, or finds an equally
clean and moderate home among the lodging-house keepers or seamen. The season is a very short
one, only ten weeks out of fifty-two, but the prices are moderate and the comfort unchallengeable....

Heligoland is only one mile long from pier to Nordkap, and a quarter of a mile wide at its
widest--in all it is three-quarters of a square mile in size. There are no horses or carts
in Heligoland--only six cows, kept always in darkness, and a few sheep and goats tethered on
the Oberland. The streets are very narrow, but very clean, and the constant repetition in houses
and scarves and flags of the national colors gives Heligoland a gay aspect; for the national
colors are anything but dull.

Green land, red rocks, white strand--nothing could be better descriptive of the island than
these colors. They are easily brought out in domestic architecture, for with a whitewashed
cottage and a red-tiled roof the Heligolander has only to give his door and window-shutters
a coat of bright green paint, and there are the colors of Heligoland. In case the unforgettable
fact should escape the tourist, the government have worked the colors into the ingenious and
pretty island postage-stamp, and many of our German friends wear bathing-pants of the same
unobtrusive tints.

Life is a very delightful thing in summer in this island. On your first visit you feel exhilarated
by the novelty of everything as much as by the strong warm sea wind which meets you wherever
you go. When you return, the novelty has worn away, but the sense of enjoyment has deepened.
As you meet friendly faces and feel the grip of friendly hands, so you also exchange salutations
with Nature, as if she, too, were an old Heligoland friend. You know the view from this point
and from that; but, like the converse of a friend, it is always changing, for there is no monotony
in the sea. The waves lap the shore gently, or roar tumultuously in the red caverns, and it
is all familiar, but none the less welcome and soothing because of that familiarity. It is
not a land of lotus-eating delights, but it is a land where there is little sound but what
the sea makes, and where every face tells of strong sun and salt waves. No doubt, much of its
charm lies in its contrast to the life of towns or country places. Whatever comes to Heligoland
comes from over the sea; there is no railway within many a wide mile; the people are a peculiar
people, with their own peculiar language, and an island patriotism which it would be hard to
match....

From the little pier one passes up the narrow white street, no broader than a Cologne lane,
but clean and bright as is no other street in Europe, past the cafés with low balconies, and
the little shops--into some there are three or four steps to descend, into others there is
an ascent of a diminutive ladder--till the small square or garden is reached in front of the
Conversation House, a spacious building with a good ball-room and reading-room, where a kiosque,
always in summer full of the fragrant Heligoland roses, detains the passer-by. Then another
turn or two in the street, and the bottom of the Treppe is approached--the great staircase
which winds upward to the Oberland, in whose crevices grow masses of foliage, and whose easy
ascent need not be feared by any one, for the steps are broad and low.

The older flight of steps was situated about a hundred paces northward from the present Treppe.
It was cut out of the red crumbling rock, and at the summit passed through a guard-house. Undoubtedly
the present Treppe should be similarly fortified. It was built by the government in 1834. During
the smuggling days, it is said, an Englishman rode up to the Oberland, and the apparition so
shocked an old woman, who had never seen a horse before, that she fell senseless to the ground.

From the Falm or road skirting the edge of the precipice from the head of the stairs to Government
House, one of the loveliest views in all the world lies before our eyes. Immediately beneath
are the winding stairs, with their constant stream of broad-shouldered seamen, or coquettish
girls, or brown boys, passing up and down, while at each resting-place some group is sitting
on the green-red-white seats gossiping over the day's business. Trees and plants nestle in
the stair corners, and almost conceal the roadway at the foot.

Lifting one's eyes away from the little town, the white pier sprawls on the, sea, and countless
boats at anchor spot with darkness the shining water. Farther away, the Düne lies like a bar
of silver across the view, ribbed with emerald where the waves roll in over white sand; and
all around it, as far as the eye can reach, white sails gleam in the light, until repose is
found on the horizon where sea and sky meet in a vapory haze. At night the Falm is a favorite
resort of the men whose houses are on the Oberland. With arms resting on the broad wall, they
look down on the twinkling lights of the houses far beneath, listen to the laughter or song
which float up from the small tables outside the café, or watch the specks of light on the
dark gleam of the North Sea. It is a prospect of which one could hardly tire, if it was not
that in summer one has in Heligoland a surfeit of sea loveliness....

Heligoland is conjecturally identified with the ocean island described by Tacitus as the place
of the sacred rites of the Angli and other tribes of the mainland. It was almost certainly
sacred to Forsete, the son of Balder the Sun-god--if he be identified, as Grimm and all Frisian
writers identify him, with Fosite the Frisian god. Forsete, a personification to men of the
great white god, who dwelt in a shining hall of gold and silver, was among all gods and men
the wisest of judges.

It is generally supposed that Heligoland was first named the Holy Island from its association
with the worship of Forsete, and latterly in consequence of the conversion of the Frisian inhabitants.
Hallier has, however, pointed out that the Heligolanders do not use this name for their home.
They call the island "det Lunn"--the land; their language they call "Hollunner," and he suggests
that the original name was Hallig-lunn. A hallig is a sand-island occasionally covered with
water. When the Düne was connected with the rock there was a large stretch of sand covered
by winter floods. Hallig-lunn would then mean the island that is more than a hallig; and from
the similarity of the words to Heligoland a series of etymological errors may have arisen;
but Hallier's derivation is, after all, only a guess.

[Footnote A: From "Heligoland and the Islands of the North Sea." Heligoland, an island and
fortress in the North Sea, lies thirty-six miles northwest of the mouth of the Elbe--Hamburg.
It was ceded to Germany by Great Britain in 1890; and is attached to Schleswig Holstein.

We visited the imperial library a day or two ago. Travelers have described the same feeling
while listening to the "Miserere" in the Sistine Chapel at Rome.

[Footnote A: From "Views Afoot."

So much for the living. A word or two now for the dead.

Among the treasures, which it contains, it is now high time to enter and to look about us.

Here and there rise more stately edifices, as theaters, from the doors of which a throng of
heated spectators is pouring out.

The lowlands are exceedingly beautiful in the northeast and west, where the great mountain,
peaks rise into the clear blue sky or are hidden by big white clouds, but no beauty can be
compared to the young green waving corn or the ripe ears when swaying gently in the breeze.
One sees miles and miles of corn, with only a tree here and there to mark the distances, and
one can not help comparing the landscape to a green sea, for the wind makes long silky waves,
which make the field appear to rise and fall like the ocean. In the heat of midday the mirage,
or, as the Hungarians call it, "Délibáb," appears and shows wonderful rivers, villages, cool
green woods--all floating in the air. Sometimes one sees hundreds of white oxen and church
towers, and, to make the picture still more confusing and wonderful, it is all seen upside
down. This, the richest part of the country, is situated between the rivers Danube and Theiss,
and runs right down to the borders of Servia. Two thirds of Hungary consist of mountainous
districts, but one third has the richest soil in Europe.

Great rivers run through the heart of the country, giving it the fertility which is its great
source of wealth. The great lowlands, or "Alföld," as the Magyars call them, are surrounded
by a chain of mountains whose heights are nearly equal to some Alpine districts. There are
three principal mountain ranges--the Tátra, Mátra, and Fátra--and four principal rivers--the
Danube, Theiss, Drave, and Save. Hungary is called the land of the three mountains and four
rivers, and the emblem of these form the chief feature in the coat-of-arms of the country.

The Carpathian range of mountains stretches from the northwest along the north and down the
east, encircling the lowlands and sending forth rivers and streams to water the plains. These
mountains are of a gigantic bulk and breadth; they are covered with fir and pine trees, and
in the lower regions with oaks and many other kinds. The peaks of the high Tátra are about
9,000 feet high, and, of course, are bare of any vegetation, being snow-covered even in summer-time.
On the well-sheltered sides of these mountains numerous baths are to be found, and they abound
in mineral waters. Another curious feature are the deep lakes called "Tengerszem" (Eyes of
the Sea). According to folklore they are connected with the sea, and wonderful beings live
in them. However, it is so far true that they are really of astonishing depth. The summer up
in the Northern Carpathians is very short, the nights always cold, and there is plenty of rain
to water the rich vegetation of the forests. Often even in the summer there are snowstorms
and a very low temperature.

The Northeastern Carpathians include a range of lower hills running down to the so-called Hegyalja,
where the wonderful vine which produces the wine of Tokay is grown. The southeastern range
of the Carpathians divides the county of Máramaros from Erdély (Transylvania). The main part
of this country is mountainous and rugged, but here also there is wonderful scenery. Everything
is still very wild in these parts of the land, and tho mineral waters abound everywhere, the
bathing-places are very primitive.

The only seaport the country possesses is Fiume, which was given to Hungary by Maria Theresa,
who wanted to give Hungary the chance of developing into a commercial nation. Besides the deep
but small mountain lakes, there are several large ones; among these the most important is the
Balaton, which, altho narrow, is about fifty miles long. Along its borders there are summer
bathing-places, considered very healthy for children. Very good wine is produced here, as in
most parts of Hungary which are hilly, but not situated too high up among the mountains. The
lake of Balaton is renowned for a splendid kind of fresh-water fish, the Fogas. It is considered
the best fish after trout--some even prefer it--and it grows to a good size.

The chief river of Hungary is the Danube, and the whole of Hungary is included in its basin.
It runs through the heart of the country, forming many islands; the greatest is called the
Csallóköz, and has over a hundred villages on it. One of the prettiest and most cultivated
of the islands is St. Margaret's Isle, near Budapest, which has latterly been joined to the
mainland by a bridge. Some years ago only steamers conveyed the visitors to it; these still
exist, but now carriages can drive on to the island too. It is a beautiful park, where the
people of Budapest seek the shade of the splendid old trees. Hot sulfur springs are to be found
on the island, and there is a bath for the use of visitors.

The Danube leaves Hungary at Orsova, and passes through the so-called Iron Gates. The scenery
is very beautiful and wild in that part, and there are many points where it is exceedingly
picturesque, especially between Vienna and Budapest. It is navigable for steamships, and so
is the next largest river, the Theiss. This river begins its course in the Southeastern Carpathians,
right up among the snow-peaks, amid wild and beautiful scenery, and it eventually empties its
waters into the Danube at Titel. The three largest rivers of Hungary feed the Danube, and by
that means reach the Black Sea.

Hungary lies under the so-called temperate zone, but there does not seem much temperance in
the climate when we think of the terrible, almost Siberian winters that come often enough and
the heat waves occasioning frequent droughts in the lowlands. The summer is short in the Carpathians;
usually in the months of August and September the weather is the most settled. June and July
are often rainy--sometimes snowstorms cause the barometer to fall tremendously. In the mountain
districts there is a great difference between the temperature of the daytime and that of the
night. All those who go to the Carpathians do well to take winter and Alpine clothing with them.

The winter in the mountains is perhaps the most exhilarating, as plenty of winter sport goes
on. The air is very cold, but the sun has great strength in sheltered corners, enabling even
delicate people to spend the winter there. In the lowlands the summer is exceedingly hot, but
frequent storms, which cool the air for some days, make the heat bearable. Now and then there
have been summers when in some parts of Hungary rain has not fallen for many weeks--even months.
The winter, too, even in the more temperate parts, is often severe and long, there being often
from eight to ten weeks of skating, altho the last few years have been abnormally mild. In
the valleys of the Carpathians potatoes, barley, oats, and cabbages are grown, while in the
warmer south wheat, maize, tobacco, turnips, and the vine are cultivated. Down by the Adriatic
Sea the climate is much warmer, but Hungary, as already mentioned, has only the town of Fiume
of her own to boast of. The visitors who look for a temperate winter and want to get away from
the raw cold must go to the Austrian town of Abbazia, which is reached in half an hour by steamboat,
and is called the Austrian Riviera. Those who visit Hungary should come in spring--about May--and
spend some weeks in the capital, the lowlands and hilly districts, and go north to the mountains
and bathing-places in the summer months.

Tokay produces some of the finest wine in the world, and the vintage time in that part of the
country is most interesting and picturesque.

[Footnote A: From "Hungary." Published by the Macmillan Co.]

BUDAPEST[A]

BY H. TORNAI DE KÖVËR

Budapest is one of the most beautifully situated cities in Europe. Nobody can ever forget the
wonderful sight of the two sister towns divided by the wide and swiftly flowing Danube, with
the steamers and barges on her waters. Buda, the old stronghold, is on one side with the fantastic
"Gellért" hill, which is a formidable-looking mass of rocks and caves; farther on is the lovely
royal palace with its beautifully kept gardens clinging to the hillside; then the oldest part,
called the stronghold, which has been rebuilt exactly in the style Matthias Corvinus built
it, and which was demolished during the Turkish invasion. Here is the old church of Matthias
too, but it is so much renovated that it lacks the appearance of age. Behind the smaller hills
larger ones are to be seen covered with shady woods; these are the villa regions and summer
excursion places for the people.

Along the Danube are green and shady islands of which the most beautiful is St. Margaret's
Isle, and on the other side of the waters is the city of "Pest," with the majestic Houses of
Parliament, Palace of Justice, Academy of Science, and numerous other fine buildings. At the
present time four bridges join the two cities together, and a huge tunnel leads through the
first hill in Buda into another part of the town. One can not say which is the more beautiful
sight: to look from Pest, which stands on level ground, up to the varying hilly landscape of
Buda; or to look from the hillside of the latter place on to the fairy-land of Pest, with the
broad silver Danube receding in the distance like a great winding snake, its scales all aglitter
in the sunshine. It is beautiful by day, but still more so at night, for myriads of lights
twinkle in the water, and the hillsides are dotted as if with flitting fairy-lamps. Even those
who are used to the sight look at it in speechless rapture and wonder. What must it be like
to foreigners!

Besides her splendid natural situation, Budapest has another great treasure, and this is the
great quantity of hot sulfur springs which exists on both sides of the Danube. The Romans made
use of these at the time of their colonization, and we can find the ruins of the Roman baths
in Aquincum half an hour from Budapest. During the Turkish rule many Turkish baths were erected
in Buda. The Rudas bath exists to this day, and with its modernized system is one of the most
popular. Császár bath, St. Lukács bath, both in Buda, have an old-established reputation for
the splendid cures of rheumatism. A new bath is being built in Pest where the hot sulfur water
oozes up in the middle of the park--the same is to be found in St. Margaret's Isle. Besides
the sulfur baths there are the much-known bitter waters in Buda called "Hunyady" and "Franz
Joseph," as well as salt baths.

The city, with the exception of some parts in Buda, is quite modern, and has encircling boulevards
and wide streets, one of the finest being the Andrássy Street. The electric car system is one
of the most modern, while underground and overground electric railways lead to the most distant
suburbs. The city has a gay and new look about it; all along the walks trees are planted, and
cafés are to be seen with a screen of shrubs or flowers around them. In the evening the sound
of music floats from the houses and cafés. There are plenty of theaters, in which only the
Hungarian language is used, and a large and beautiful opera-house under government management.
There are museums, institutions of art and learning, academies of painting and music, schools,
and shops, and life and movement everywhere. At present [1911] the city numbers about 900,000
souls, but the more distant suburbs are not reckoned in this number.

[Footnote A: From "Hungary." Published by the Macmillan Co.]

