"I rather think I am Dick's friend for all I'm worth," he said slowly, at last. "Even if I
were tempted to disloyalty, I should be ashamed to harbor it with your faithfulness standing
before me. And I believe this very afternoon was a kind of crisis with him--that he was gathering
himself together when I came away."

"And by your help, I dare say," added his wife.

"I hope so. I know but one thing that seems to me more worth while than the purpose of helping
Dick Percival to be what it is in him to be."

"And what is that other better thing?"

"You arrant fraud! Do you need to ask?" he said, laughing.

"Well, comfort yourself. You are to go on fulfilling your two purposes in life--you and I together."

"I pray we may. I believe we shall," answered her husband earnestly.

"I know we shall, doubting Thomas. I'm one of the women who are strong in unreasoning faith."

They stood silently smiling at each other for a moment.

"Shall we celebrate the beginning of home with pomp and music?" she asked. "There's a little
time before dinner. Make yourself comfortable. Push Mrs. Percival up to the fire."

"Mrs. Percival!" Ellery exclaimed, dropping his guilty arm and looking about in a startled manner.

"Oh, I forgot you didn't know. I've been all over the house this afternoon, christening our
things with the names of the people that gave them to us. Doesn't it make all the wedding presents
seem very friendly and not at all new? Wouldn't you know, even if you hadn't been told, that
this particular chair was Mother Percival--it's so graceful and comforting. Dump yourself into
it, Ellery."

She pushed him down laughing.

"Ah, I begin to see that you stole your atmosphere. The things aren't so new after all. They're
old acquaintances."

"Of course they are. Isn't it jolly to have 'your loving friends' tucked around in spirit in
every nook and corner of the house, without the nuisance of having the good people here in
the body to disturb our privacy?"

"I see," he meditated, then went on ungratefully: "After all, I think I'm more taken with the
privacy than with the spiritual presences, though they can hardly be considered skeletons at
the feast."

"I should think not," exclaimed Madeline indignantly. "I love them each and all--well, with
a few exceptions, Ellery. You needn't grin sarcastically. Now there's the piano--such a piano
as I have always dreamed of but never hoped to own. If I called it a Steinway Grand, I should
know that it was an excellent instrument; but when I call it 'Vera,' it warms and delights
my heart a thousand times."

Ellery rose and bowed ceremoniously to the piano.

"Vera, will you and Mrs. Norris favor me with Schubert's Serenade, while I sit on Mrs. Percival?"
he asked. "I am ragingly hungry, but perhaps the Serenade will keep me harmless and quiet for
a little."

He sat and listened and looked into the warm deep heart of the friendly fire. Dreams and hopes
came back to him, as things once seen through a glass darkly, but now face to face. Without
turning, he was conscious of Madeline, across the room, filling life with music.

When a small maid, as new as the books, appeared to announce dinner, he looked up startled.

"Shall we go?" asked Madeline, rising.

"To our own private particular family communion-table," he answered, drawing her arm through his.