PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

December 5, 1891.

QUITE FABULOUS!

(A STORY OF THE TIMES, DEDICATED TO PROFESSOR MUNRO.)

KING COLE, although described as a "merry old soul," was in reality a tyrant. He had a number
of subjects who used to work underground, and their labour was to bring to the surface the
black diamonds of the earth. It was not altogether a pleasant occupation, but still, the task
had to be accomplished. His Majesty was fond of ferocious practical jokes, and perchance this
may have been the origin of the jocular description attached to his name. One day, some of
his subjects complained that their hours of labour were too many.

"How long do you work?" asked the King.

"May it please you, Sire, sixteen," was the reply.

"Try what you can do with twelve," and they were about to depart rejoicing, when the Monarch
called them back and added, "But mind you, I shall expect just as many black diamonds to be
unearthed as before."

So the King's subjects worked only twelve hours, and strange to say, quite as many black diamonds
were produced as in the olden days. Then the workmen began to grumble once more, and the King
again interviewed them.

"Do you still work twelve hours?" he asked the deputation.

"Certainly, Your Majesty; but we think half would be quite enough," returned the spokesman.

"By all means--why not make it three hours?" and again his subjects were departing, rejoicing,
when once more he added, "But I shall expect just the same output as before."

And he got it, for the men worked harder than ever. And then they came yet again to him. Once
more they considered the hours of labour excessive. They thought sixty minutes plenty.

"So do I," replied the Monarch, "not only plenty, but too many. But as it is scarcely worth
while employing you only half an hour a day, I shall make other arrangements."

And from that time forth he brought up his black diamonds from the centre of the earth by machinery!

       *       *       *       *       *

NOT "HALF A CHAP."--A well-known Clergyman, who "does nothing by halves." i.e., Dean HOLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

In the Christmas Numbers of the numerous picture-papers it is at first rather difficult to
discover which is the genuine article illustrated, and which the advertisement, likewise illustrated.
In the outside picture of the Christmas Number of The Penny Illustrated Paper, which represents
a couple dancing together, I am not yet quite sure that the handsome Hebraic gentleman, dancing
with a fair Anglo-Saxon girl, is not assuring his frightened-looking partner that "Epps's Cocoa
is Grateful--Comforting," as stated in the paragraph immediately beneath the aforesaid picture.
On the next page is a sad illustration entitled, "The Curse of Revenge. Lost to Human Aid."
which turns out to be not a Christmas story at all, but an advertisement for Fruit Salt. Then
opposite this commences a story by GEORGE R. SIMS; and at the foot of this page some one replies,
"Mr. DOOLAN! There's no one of that name here now, Sir." Whereupon, being interested, the reader
turns over page 1 to find at the head of page 2, not the continuation of the above interesting
story in the shape of some remark on the part of the inquirer, nor any account of what happened
after this reply had been given, but simply "Benson's Watches" followed by "Fry's Chocolate,"
then a picture (not an advertisement) facing that, and then on page 4 the remainder of the
dialogue. It doesn't much matter perhaps, as the excitement aroused by the story is not violent,
and the mistake of giving somebody else's card for your own does not occur here for the first
time as the motive of a plot. CUTHBERT BEDE's name is to a "Christmas Carol," and Mr. JOHN
LATEY's to a dramatically told tale called "Mark Temple's Trial," in which the imaginary heroine
pays a visit to a very real person of the name of Madame KATTI LANNER, whose pupils are represented
as all assembled, with bouquets and posies, to do honour to the birthday of their "well-loved
mistress," who is at the same time, "the acknowledged mistress of the choreographic art." In
this story, the author is to be complimented on his invention of the name, "Lord Morgagemore"
as an ancient looking and highly aristocratic Irish title.

"Up to any game at Christmas, if it's not too high," says the Baron of Hampershire, who detests
all game that is lofty, but is glad to welcome a Shakspearian Revival by MYERS & Co. in the
shape of a Nine Men's Morris, a title the Baron recommends to the notice of Mr. WILLIAM MORRIS,
yclept "BILLY," when he is making another bouquet of poesies. By the way, BIM BROS.' Almanac
Cards, one of the Baron's Lady Helps describes as "decidedly dainty." Christmas is specially
a card-playing season, a time of Pax to everybody.

From the Gordon Stables of HUTCHINSON & Co. issues the nightmare tale of The Cruise in the
Crystal Boat; when finished, try their Family Difficulty, by SARAH DOUDNEY. Send to the Deanery
of DEAN AND SON, ask for Baby's Biography and The Little One's Own Beehive. The Spindleside
department of the Baron's Booking-Office recommends both the above for the Tiny Trots; while
the Spearside tells the boys to go in for MANVILLE FENN's Burr Junior and Mrs. R. LEE's Adventures
in Australia. Then for all-comers, procure BEATRICE HARRADEN's New Book of Fairies, for, our
"Co." thus puts it, "This is all concerning those poor little Fairies, about whom no one takes
any trouble, and who are left out in the cold at Christmas time." Thus for this week conclude
the duties of Mesdames BLYTHE and GAY, the Baron's Lady Assistant Perusers. "I trust my gentle
Public will benefit by their advice," quoth,

Theirs truly,

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

"NOW YOU'RE QUITE THE GENTLEMAN!"

(A BALLAD OF BIRMINGHAM.)

    ["You will not find an alliance in which the weaker side has
    been so loyal, so straight, so single-hearted, so patriotic
    as the Liberal Unionists have been during the last five
    years.... Birmingham is the centre, the consecration of this
    alliance."--Lord Salisbury at Birmingham.

    "Now I neither look for nor desire reunion" (with the
    Gladstonian Liberals.)--Mr. Chamberlain at Birmingham.]

AIR--"YE GENTLEMEN OF ENGLAND."[1]

  Ye Gentlemen of England,
    Who follow SALIS-BU-RY,
  How little did you count upon
    Assistance from J.C.!
  Give ear unto his speeches old,
    And they will plainly show
  Once he'd scorn to be borne
    Where the Tory breezes blow,
      Where the Lilies and Primroses bloom,
      And the Tory zephyrs blow.

  If once he did oppose you,
    To-day he is at war
  With GLADSTONE and his Items.
    Faith, JOE has travelled far!
  The Primrose Dames shall teach him
    True patriot "form" to know.
  He is leal, and will kneel
    To the "Lilies" in fair row;
      To the pretty, winsome Primrose girls,
      Who buttonhole Brum JOE.

  Ye Gentlemen of England,
    Whom once he did deride,
  How safe ye are, and how serene,
    With JOSEPH on your side.
  He talks no more of "Ransom"
    ('Tis P-e-n-s-i-o-n rather now),
  Brum JOE will not go
    Where the Hawarden winds do blow;
      Where HARCOURT thunders loud and long,
      And Gladstonians blare and blow.

  The Orchid from his button
    JOE's willing to displace,
  To take the Primrose posy
    That's proffered by Her Grace.
  O gentle dame and dainty,
    What man could answer "No!"
  As you prest to his breast
    The most blessed flowers that blow,
      The blossoms loved by BEACONSFIELD
      The bravest blooms that blow?

  O (Brummagem) Tory Beauty,
    'Tis yours to consecrate
  The holiest Alliance
    Our land hath seen of late.
  Shall he reject its symbol,
    Or answer "Not for JOE!"?
  Nay, sweet girl, such a churl
    Were no "Gentleman" you know;
      And JOE is "quite the Gentleman,"
      Brum BRUMMEL in full blow!

  Then courage, all brave Unionists,
    And never be afraid
  Whilst Brummagem Republican
    Is witched by Primrose Maid.
  There is soft fascination
    In radiant rank, we know;
  And a posy, though primrosy,
    From soft hands makes soft hearts glow,
      Lilies--though they toil not nor spin
      Are beauteous--in full blow!

[Footnote 1: Mr. CHAMBERLAIN was once reported to have congratulated himself upon his co-operation
with "English Gentlemen."]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD LYTTON.

BORN NOV. 8, 1831. DIED NOV. 24, 1891.

  Were clever wise, were grandiose great,
  How many a servant of the State
    Had left a more enduring name.
  But all is not for all; 'tis far
  From flaming meteor to fixed star,
    From notoriety to fame.

  Picturesque son of brilliant sire,
  It wanted but the touch of fire
    Prometheus only knows to bring
  The flame divine in him to wake
  Who moved our plaudits when he spake,
    But stirred no passion when he'd sing.

  The Orient pageantry he loved,
  The histrio not the hero moved,
    The dilettante not the sage.
  Hence in our England's East his hand
  Turned, in a story sternly grand,
    A motley mock-heroic page.

  He by the Seine found fitter place
  For courtly wit and modish grace,
    Than by the Indus. There right well
  His facile talent served his Chief;
  And England hears with genuine grief
    That sudden-sounding passing bell.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW NAME.

  Who prizes Literature? All sorts and sizes
  Of literary wares now hang on "prizes."
  'Tis not prose fictionists or poem-spinners
  The public rush for; no, 'tis "all the winners!"
  Letters in lotteries find support most sure--
  Let us be frank, and call them Lotteryture!

       *       *       *       *       *

SUITOR RESARTUS.

A SENTIMENTAL DILEMMA.

  How can I woo you in this ancient suit?
    You do not notice it, of course; I know it.
  My soul is burdened with a shapeless boot,
    Your heart is singing welcome to your poet.
  Here in the shadowy settle I can sit
    And sparkle with you, brightly confidential,
  But when into the lamp-bright zone you flit,
    I shrink into some corner penitential.
  A well-dressed crowd, their tailors all unpaid,
    Throng round you there, and cuffs and collars glisten;
  Of pity's blindness, as of scorn, afraid,
    I shun the merry fray, and darkling listen,
  For who could urge the timidest of suits,
    Conscious of such indifferent clothes and boots?

  You think me quite as good as other men;
    Nay, more, I think you think me vastly better;
  Your candid glances seem to ask me when
    I'll seek to bind you in a willing fetter.
  Is this presumption? Not from friend to friend,
    Whose souls unite like clasping hands of lovers;
  Yet can I breathe no word of love, to end
    The delicate doubt that o'er the unspoken hovers.
  If I were hopeless that you loved me not,
    My hopeless love, confess'd, myself would flatter,
  But should the blissful dream be true, I wot
    That love confess'd the joy of love would shatter.
  My Queen, indeed as king I'd love to lord it;
    I cannot tell you that I can't afford it.

       *       *       *       *       *

POSSIBLE EXPLANATION:--"For many months nothing has been heard of Lieutenant IVANITCH," was
the remark of our leading journal à propos of Russian disappearances. Is it not probable that
IVANITCH, unable to find a post to suit him, has gone on tour with a "scratch company"?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

NO XVII.

    SCENE--Under the Colonnade of the Hôtel Grande Bretagne,
    Bellagio. CULCHARD is sitting by one of the pillars, engaged
    in constructing a sonnet. On a neighbouring seat a group of
    smart people are talking over their acquaintances, and near
    them is another visitor, a Mr. CRAWLEY STRUTT, who is
    watching his opportunity to strike into the conversation.

Mrs. Hurlingham. Well, she'll be Lady CHESEPARE some day, when anything happens to the old
Earl. He was looking quite ghastly when we were down at SKYMPINGS last. But they're frightfully
badly off now, poor dears! Lady DRIBLETT lets them have her house in Park Lane for parties
and that--but it's wonderful how they live at all!

Colonel Sandown. He looked pretty fit at the Rag the other day. Come across the SENLACS anywhere?
Thought Lady SENLAC was going abroad this year.

Mr. Crawley Strutt. Hem--I saw it mentioned in the Penny Patrician that her Ladyship had--

Mrs. Hurl. (without taking the slightest notice of him). She's just been marryin' her daughter,
you know--rather a good match, too. Not what I call pretty,--smart-lookin', that's all. But
then her sister wasn't pretty till she married.

Col. Sand. Nice family she married into! Met her father-in-law, old Lord BLETHERHAM, the other
morning, at a chemist's in Piccadilly--he'd dropped in there for a pick-me-up; and there he
was, tellin' chemist all the troubles he'd had with his other sons marryin' the way they did,
and that. Rum man to go and confide in his chemist, but he's like that--fond of the vine!

Mr. C.S. Er--er--it's becoming a very serious thing, Sir, the way our aristocracy is deteriorating,
is it not?

Col. S. Is it? What have they been up to now, eh? Haven't seen a paper for days.

Mr. C.S. I mean these mixed marriages, and, well, their general goings on, I don't know if
you're acquainted with a paper called the Penny Patrician? I take it in regularly, and I assure
you--loyal supporter of our old hereditary institutions as I am--some of the revelations I
read about in high life make me blush--yes, downright blush for them! [Mrs. HURLINGHAM retires.

Col. S. Do they, though? If I were you I should let 'em do their own blushin', and save my pennies.

Mr. C.S. (deferentially). No doubt you're right, Sir, but I like the Patrician myself--it's
very smartly written. Talking of that, do you happen to know the ins and outs of that marriage
of young Lord GOSLINGTON's? Something very mysterious about the party he's going to marry--who
are her people now?

Col. S. Can't say, I'm sure--no business of mine, you know.

Mr. C.S. There I venture to think you're wrong, Sir. It's the business of everybody--the duty,
I may say--to see that the best blood of the nation is not--(Col. S. turns into the hotel;
Mr. C.S. sits down near CULCH.)--Remarkably superior set of visitors staying here, Sir! My
chief objection to travel always is, that it brings you in contact with parties you wouldn't
think of associating with at home. I was making that same remark to a very pleasant little
fellow I met on the steamer--er--Lord UPPERSOLE, I think it was--and he entirely concurred.
Your friend made us acquainted.--(PODBURY comes out of the hotel.)--Ah, here is your friend.--(To
PODB.)--Seen his Lordship about lately, Sir?--Lord UPPERSOLE, I mean, of course!

Podb. UPPERSOLE? No--he's over at Cadenabbia, I believe.

Mr. C.S. A highly agreeable spot to stay at. Indeed, I've some idea myself of--Exceedingly
pleasant person his Lordship--so affable, so completely the gentleman!

Podb. Oh, he's affable enough--for a boot-maker. I always give him a title when I see him,
for the joke of the thing--he likes it.

Mr. C.S. He may, Sir. I consider a title is not a thing to be treated in that light manner.
It--it was an unpardonable liberty to force me into the society of that class of person--unpardonable,
Sir!

    [He goes.

Podb. Didn't take much forcing, after he once heard me call him "Lord UPPERSOLE"! Where are
all the others, eh? Thought we were going up to the Villa Serbelloni this afternoon.

Culch. I--er--have not been consulted. Are they--er--all going?

    [With a shade of anxiety.

Podb. I believe so. You needn't be afraid, you know. HYPATIA won't have the chance of ragging
you now--she and Miss TROTTER have had a bit of a breeze.

Culch. I rather gathered as much. I think I could guess the--

Podb. Yes, HYPATIA's rather uneasy about poor old BOB; thinks Miss TROTTER is--well, carrying
on, you know. She is no end of a little flirt--you know that well enough!--(C. disclaims impatiently.)
Here you all are, eh?--(To Miss P., Miss T., and BOB.)--Well, who knows the way up to the villa?

Miss T. It's through the town, and up some steps by the church--you cann't miss it. But Mr.
PRENDERGAST is going to show me a short cut up behind the hotel--aren't you, Mr. PRENDERGAST?

Miss P. (icily). I really think, dear, it would be better if we all kept together--for so many
reasons!

Culch. (with alacrity). I agree with Miss PRENDERGAST. A short cut is invariably the most indirect
route.

Miss P. (with intention). You hear what Mr. CULCHARD says, my dear MAUD? He advocates direct
ways, as best in the long run.

Miss T. It's only going to be a short run, my love. But I'm vurry glad to observe that you
and Mr. CULCHARD are so perfectly harmonious, as I'm leaving him on your hands for a spell.
Aren't you ever coming, Mr. PRENDERGAST?

    [She leads him off, a not unwilling captive.

A PATH IN THE GROUNDS OF THE VILLA SERBELLONI.

Podb. (considerately, to CULCHARD, who is following Miss PRENDERGAST and him, in acute misery).
Look here, old fellow, Miss PRENDERGAST would like to sit down, I know; so don't you bother
about keeping with us if you'd rather not, you know!

    [CULCHARD murmurs an inarticulate protest.

Miss P. Surely, Mr. PODBURY, you are aware by this time that Mr. CULCHARD has a perfect mania
for self-sacrifice!

    [CULCHARD drops behind, crushed.

AMONG THE RUINS AT THE TOP OF THE HILL.

Culch. (who has managed to overtake Miss T. and her companion). Now do oblige me by looking
through that gap in the pines towards Lecco. I particularly wish you to observe the effect
of light on those cliffs--it's well worth your while.

Miss T. Why, certainly, it's a view that does you infinite credit. Oh, you didn't take any
hand in the arrangement? But ain't you afraid if you go around patting the scenery on the head
this way, you'll have the lake overflow?

Bob. P. Ha-ha-ha! One in the eye for you, CULCHARD!

Culch. (with dignity). Surely one may express a natural enthusiasm without laying oneself open--?

Miss T. Gracious, yes! I should hope you wouldn't want to show your enthusiasm that way--like
a Japanese nobleman!

Culch. (to himself). Now that's coarse--really coarse!--(Aloud.)--I seem to be unable to open
my mouth now without some ridiculous distortion--

Miss T. My!--but that's a serious symptom--isn't it? You don't feel like you were going to
have lock-jaw, do you, Mr. CULCHARD?

    [CULCHARD falls back to the rear once more. Later--Mr.
    VAN BOODELER has joined the party; HYPATIA has contrived
    to detach her brother, CULCHARD has sought refuge with
    PODBURY.

Miss T. (to VAN B.). So that's what kept you? "Well, it sounds just too enchanting. But I cann't
answer for what Miss PRENDERGAST will say to it. It mayn't suit her notions of propriety.

Mr. Van B. I expect she'll be superior to Britannic prejudices of that kind. I consider your
friend a highly cultivated and charming lady, MAUD. She produces that impression upon me.

Miss T. I presume, from that, she has shown an intelligent interest in the great American novel?

Mr. Van B. Why, yes; it enlists her literary sympathies--she sees all its possibilities.

Miss T. And they're pretty numerous, too. But here she comes. You'd better tell her your plan
right now.

Miss P. (in an earnest undertone to BOB, as they approach, followed by CULCH. and BOB). You
must try and be sensible about it, BOB; if you are too blind to see that she is only--

BOB (sulkily). All right! Haven't I said I'd go? What's the good of jawing about it?

Mr. V.B. (to Miss P.) I've been telling my cousin I've been organising a little water-party
for this evening--moonlight, mandolins, Menaggio. If you find that alliteration has any attractions,
I hope you and your brother will do me the pleasure of--

Miss P. I'm afraid not, thanks. We have all our packing to do. We find we shall have to leave
early to-morrow.

    [Van B.'s face falls; BOB listens gloomily to Miss T.'s
    rather perfunctory expressions of regret; PODBURY looks
    anxious and undecided; CULCHARD does his best to control an
    unseemly joy.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GOOD NEW "TIMES."

Nobody, after visiting Terry's Theatre, can apply to Mr. PINERO's piece the hackneyed phrase,--used
apologetically by an unconscionable reader after detaining the leading journal for three-quarters
of an hour,--"Oh, there's nothing in The Times," for, in Mr. PINERO's piece there is plenty
of amusement, if not of absorbing interest.

The story is that of a parvenu, whose sole object in life, to be recognised by "Society," is
thwarted by the marriage of his good-for-nothing son with the daughter of an Irish lodging-house
keeper. The struggles of Mr. and Mrs. Bompas to conceal this mésalliance, and the assistance
given them in their difficulties by the Hon. Montague Trimble, constitute the motive of the
play. But the question that must occur to the critical mind is, "Did the author mean this piece
for high comedy, or farcical comedy?" If the former, then Mr. TERRY is wrong in his conception
of the part; if the latter, everybody else is wrong in their conception of their parts.

It seems to me as if, in the course of rehearsal, the peculiarities distinguishing the character
of Percy Egerton Bompas, M.P., had gradually become assimilated with the individualities of
the actor, Mr. EDWARD TERRY. If Mr. PINERO so meant it, if he so wrote it for Mr. TERRY and
for Mr. TERRY only, then there is nothing more to be said; Mr. PINERO's ideal is realised.
But if the author did not intend Mr. TERRY's impersonation, then he must be content to sacrifice
the ideal to the real, shrug his shoulders, and pocket his profits. Yet, as if making an appeal
to the public to judge between the auctorial abstract and the representational concrete, Mr.
PINERO not only publishes his playbook, but sells it in the theatre. Visitors to TERRY's, who
buy the book, will judge the play by its stage interpretation that has had the advantage of
the author's personal supervision and direction. The representation, therefore, is either more
or less in accordance with his teaching, or flatly contradicts it.

The publication of the book of a comedy in a theatre may be thankfully received as a present
help to the audience, and an aid to memory afterwards, or it may be considered as a protest
on the part of the author who says, "Here's what I have written. See how they act it: whether
it be farce or comedy, judge for yourselves. You pay your money, and you take your choice."
Suffice it, then, to record that, on the night of this deponent's visit, the piece played from
eight till past eleven, and that the audience from first to last was generally amused, but,
I should be inclined to say, particularly disappointed at the collapse of Mr. TERRY's part
in the last Act (the principal portion of which he passes curled up on a sofa, with the top
of his forehead powdered white! Why?), and mystified by the sudden and apparently unnecessary
revelation, made by Miss Cazalet, to the effect that Lucy Tuck (a mentally and physically short-sighted
girl) is her illegitimate daughter; and these two last-named personages, though essential to
the plot, fail unfortunately in rousing any sentiment of pity or of sympathy.

Mr. ELLIOT is excellent as the Hon. Montague Trimble; nothing better, apart from Mr. HARE's
eccentric characters, has been seen on the stage for some considerable time. I hope the author
is of the same opinion. Mr. FRED THORNE is capital as the Irish Member; and as Mrs. Hooley,
an obtrusively Irish eccentricity of Thackerayan extraction, Miss ALEXES LEIGHTON is very good,
for the character, as drawn by the author, is obtrusive, and is so meant to be. The Mrs. Egerton
Bompas of Miss FANNY BROUGH is the woman to the life, and, in my humble judgment, Miss BROUGH's
impersonation is well-nigh faultless. Whether, if the part of Egerton Bompas were played as
high comedy, this would still improve Miss BROUGH's impersonation of Mrs. Bompas or not, it
is difficult to decide; but I am inclined to think this would be the result. What does the
author think? Most likely he will continue to "think"; it is the wiser course. Mr. HENRY V.
ESMOND makes the lad, Howard Bompas, unnecessarily repulsive; but if, in doing so, he is only
exactly carrying out the author's idea, i.e., "Master's orders," then he is no longer responsible
for the overcharged colouring. The probable fate of this unhappy pair, an impulsive uneducated
kind of Irish orange-girl married to a contemptible young sot, is not a pleasant termination
to the story, nor is the anticipatory sadness felt for the future of this ill-assorted couple
in any way dissipated by the stereotyped and perfunctory offer of marriage made by the young
London Journal Nobleman to the daughter of the utterly crushed snob just before the Curtain
descends.

Why the piece is called The Times, remains a mystery. To-day would have been better; that is,
if by The Times is only meant "The Present Day." And if it doesn't mean this, what meaning
has it? For alliterative advertisement it may be useful; e.g., "Times at TERRY's." The dialogue
generally is easy, natural and telling.

Yours,

PRIVATE BOX.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLLOW THE BARON!

    ["Such characters as he should retire into fiction, they
    are too exaggerated for real life."--"Times" on Mr. R.L.
    Stevenson's Sad Maron of Samou.]

  Oh, most excellent true! How I thank thee, great Times,
    For teaching that phrase! 'Tis delicious!
  Fiction! The haunt of mad follies, crass crimes,
    Fads futile, and tastes meretricious.
  Oh, joy, to transport to that Limbo of Fools,
    Upon trial and honest conviction,
  The plagues of our Parties, our Churches, our Schools,
    Who ought to "retire into Fiction."

  When WINDYWHAME, M.P., goes spouting about,
    His flatulent madness and malice;
  When SLUDGE, after years of dogmatical doubt,
    Finds Faith's Wonderland worthy of Alice;
  When POPINJAY airs his effeminate Art,
    And DOBBS sputters dirt in choice diction,
  Ye gods, there'd be joy in Church, Forum, and Mart,
    If the fools would "retire into Fiction."

  Pragmatical pietists, sceptics obtuse
    Who Progress impede with crude cackle,
  Predestinate duffers of prattle profuse,
    Who the biggest world-problems would tackle;
  State-quacks, shouting Emperors, queer School-Board cranks,
    We'll give you our best benediction,
  And speed you at parting with heartiest thanks,
    If you'll only--"retire into Fiction!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ARMING THE AMAZONS.

(MODERN BRUMMAGEM VERSION.)

    [At the meeting (at Birmingham) of the National Union of
    Conservative and Constitutional Associations, a resolution in
    favour of "considering the claims of women to be admitted to
    the franchise when entitled by ownership or occupation," was
    carried "by an overwhelming majority, amid loud cheers."
    Mrs. FAWCETT afterwards said, "What new forces were they (the
    Conservative Party) prepared to bring against the anarchy,
    socialism and revolution which were arrayed against them?
    The granting of women's suffrage would be against the
    disintegrating power of the other side, as women were
    everywhere anti-revolutionary forces.... This would add
    about 800,000 to the electorate. They would be, she believed,
    middle-aged women of property, than whom she thought they
    could not assemble more anti-revolutionary forces."]

Trojan Leader loquitur:--

  To arm the Amazons against the Greeks,
  OVIDIUS hints, proud manhood galls and piques.
  No doubt; yet NASO did it in his day,
  And we, in ours, who, sorely-pressed, would stay
  The rising tide of Revolution, check
  Disintegration, of the claws who'd peck
  At our political sleeves and platform hearts
  Must not be frightened.
      "Rummiest of starts,"
  The ribald Cockney cries; to see at length,
  "The Tory seeking to recruit his strength
  Prom those he dubbed, in earlier, scornfuller mood
  The crowing hens, the shrieking sisterhood!"
  Shade of sardonic SMOLLETT, haunt no more
  St. Stephen's precincts; list not to the roar
  Of the mad Midland cheers, when FEILDING's plan
  Of levelling (moneyed) Woman up to Man
  Wins "Constitutional" support and votes
  From a "majority" of Tory throats!
  Mrs. LYNN LINTON, how this vote must vex,
  That caustic censor of her own sweet sex!
  Wild Women--with the Suffrage! Fancy that,
  O fluent Lady, at tart nick-names pat!
  Girls of the Period? They were bad enough,
  But what a deal of skimble-skamble stuff
  Will Mrs. FAWCETT's Middle-aged Ones talk
  When these eight hundred thousand hens o' the walk
  Cackle for Order, Purity, and Peace!!!

  Partlets may save our Capitol, as geese
  Once did the Roman; nigh a million--JUNOS,
  Roll back the tide of Revolution. Who knows?
  Not PRIAM-SALISBURY. Does he look askance
  At the new Amazonian Queen's advance?
  Does he hide apprehension with a smile?
  The Amazons are used to Grecian guile;
  ACHILLES-GLADSTONE sorely they mistrust.
  Which side will give them more than fain it must?
  To-day the Trojans show the friendlier front
  PENTHESILEA, whom the Greeks would shunt,
  Proffers her aid to Tory Troy, to keep
  High Ilium against the foes who creep
  Nearer and nearer to its sacred walls.
  ACHILLES o'er the trenches loudly calls,
  In menace fierce, thrasonic in his boast,
  His Myrmidons, a mad and motley host,
  Mean boundless mischief, the Palladium's gone
  If they are not repulsed. It must be done,
  Come what, come will. PRIAM has trimmed his sails
  To popular winds until the pilot fails
  To know the old and carefully charted course.
  His wisdom, and brave ARTHUR-HECTOR's force,
  May yet prove vain if no auxiliar hand
  Help yon Anarchic legions to withstand.
  The Amazonian host? Aha! Well hit!
  Scruple to take she-helping? Not a bit
  Too late for proud punctilio. No, this Queen
  Is not so lovely, of such royal mien,
  As hers who witched ACHILLES e'en in death.
  An elderly Amazon of shortish breath,
  With gingham huge and gig-lamps, though she hold
  That "Property" buckler broad and bossed with gold
  Is scarce a Siren--of the ancient style;
  More of Minerva's frown than Venus' smile!
  But then, eight hundred thousand!!! There's the rub.
  Recruited from the Platform and the Tub,
  With Middle-aged and Propertied Amazons,
  Ilium may master e'en the Myrmidons.
  Come, anti-revolutionaries, come!
  Strike Anarchy dead, and Socialism dumb!
  Accept new arms, ye maiden cohorts! Take
  The weapon that shall make ACHILLES shake,
  And reinforce, against the wiles of Greece,
  The powers of Property, Privilege, and Peace!

       *       *       *       *       *

OPTIMISM.

  "All's for the best," smirks fatuous DIVES. He
  Means, "I'm the best, and therefore all's for me."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ONLY FANCY!

We understand that Mr. GLADSTONE has followed, with much interest, the speeches delivered in
the country last week, and was observed to be visibly affected at the touching spectacle of
the final reconciliation of Lord SALISBURY and Mr. CHAMBERLAIN at Birmingham. "They toil not,
neither do they spin," he said, furtively wiping away a tear; "nevertheless, they seem made
for each other's company."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Right Hon. Gentleman will take his turn next week, and a report is current in interested
quarters, that he as gone into training under the personal direction of Sir WILLIAM HARCOURT
and Mr. JOHN MORLEY, who assist to support him whilst he rehearses his speech. This is a fantasy
of disordered imagination. Mr. G. is in splendid form, spoiling for a fight.

       *       *       *       *       *

A trustworthy Correspondent informs us that, owing to accidental displacement of his notes,
a telling point was omitted from Lord SALISBURY's first speech at Birmingham. It was intended
to come in at the passage where the PREMIER boldly flouted apprehension, of Ministerial disaster
at the General Election. He had meant to cite Mr. JACKSON's appointment as conclusive proof
that the Government would exist at least up to the year 1900.

"SHAKSPEARE," he should have said, "has written, 'a tanner will last you nine year,' and of
course the duration of the Government will be co-incidental with the prolongation of the term
of our Financial Secretary to the Treasury, withdrawn from commercial pursuits at Leeds."

       *       *       *       *       *

HERR VON DER BLOWITZOWN-TROMP has some interesting reminiscences of the lamented Baron MAC
HINERY. "When he was appointed Legate at the Court of the Isle of Man," writes the great historian
of our times, "he dined with me in passing through Nanterre. It was the very day the Marquis
DE MOULIN had been elected Pompier. The other guests were, His Excellency the CON OF CRIM TARTARY,
Prince ALLEZ-VOUS-EN, His Excellency the VICUNA of BRAZIL, the SANDWICH AMBASSADOR, the DOGE
of VENICE, and the Baron MUNCHAUSEN, who was a kind of amateur partner of mine, in whom I had
much confidence--I always left him with my day's correspondence ready to be committed to paper.
In the course of the dinner a stupid garçon, handing the ice round, dropped a small piece down
the back of the neck of the DOGE of VENICE. With great presence of mind Baron MUNCHAUSEN seized
the poker (which fortunately happened to be in the fire), and, with inimitable dexterity, passed
the red-hot brand between the DOGE's shirt-collar and his neck, and, deftly touching the piece
of ice, melted it. It was an awkward moment. The canned lobster was just served, but no one
thought of eating it. The CON of CRIM TARTARY turning to Baron MAC HINERY, said,--

"You, my Lord, who are disinterested in this matter, tell us what you think of it."

"I think," replied the Baron, with admirable sangfroid, "his Highness the DOGE would have felt
better if the ice had been warmer, and the poker cooler."

Everybody laughed. The DOGE and Baron MUNCHAUSEN shook hands, and the dinner ended gaily.

       *       *       *       *       *

