ELOQUENCE.

It is the doctrine of the popular music-masters, that whoever can speak can sing. So, probably,
every man is eloquent once in his life. Our temperaments differ in capacity of heat, or we
boil at different degrees. One man is brought to the boiling point by the excitement of conversation
in the parlor. The waters, of course, are not very deep. He has a two-inch enthusiasm, a pattypan
ebullition. Another requires the additional caloric of a multitude, and a public debate; a
third needs an antagonist, or a hot indignation; a fourth needs a revolution; and a fifth,
nothing less than the grandeur of absolute ideas, the splendors and shades of Heaven and Hell.

But because every man is an orator, how long soever he may have been a mute, an assembly of
men is so much more susceptible. The eloquence of one stimulates all the rest, some up to the
speaking point, and all others to a degree that makes them good receivers and conductors, and
they avenge themselves for their enforced silence by increased loquacity on their return to
the fireside.

The plight of these phlegmatic brains is better than that of those who prematurely boil, and
who impatiently break the silence before their time. Our county conventions often exhibit a
small-pot-soon-hot style of eloquence. We are too much reminded of a medical experiment, where
a series of patients are taking nitrous-oxide gas. Each patient, in turn, exhibits similar
symptoms,--redness in the face, volubility, violent gesticulation, delirious attitudes, occasional
stamping, an alarming loss of perception of the passage of time, a selfish enjoyment of his
sensations, and loss of perception of the sufferings of the audience.

Plato says, that the punishment which the wise suffer, who refuse to take part in the government,
is, to live under the government of worse men; and the like regret is suggested to all the
auditors, as the penalty of abstaining to speak, that they shall hear worse orators than themselves.

But this lust to speak marks the universal feeling of the energy of the engine, and the curiosity
men feel to touch the springs. Of all the musical instruments on which men play, a popular
assembly is that which has the largest compass and variety, and out of which, by genius and
study, the most wonderful effects can be drawn. An audience is not a simple addition of the
individuals that compose it. Their sympathy gives them a certain social organism, which fills
each member, in his own degree, and most of all the orator, as a jar in a battery is charged
with the whole electricity of the battery. No one can survey the face of an excited assembly,
without being apprised of new opportunity for painting in fire human thought, and being agitated
to agitate. How many orators sit mute there below! They come to get justice done to that ear
and intuition which no Chatham and no Demosthenes has begun to satisfy.

The Welsh Triads say, "Many are the friends of the golden tongue." Who can wonder at the attractiveness
of Parliament, or of Congress, or the bar, for our ambitious young men, when the highest bribes
of society are at the feet of the successful orator? He has his audience at his devotion. All
other fames must hush before his. He is the true potentate; for they are not kings who sit
on thrones, but they who know how to govern. The definitions of eloquence describe its attraction
for young men. Antiphon the Rhamnusian, one of Plutarch's ten orators, advertised in Athens,
"that he would cure distempers of the mind with words." No man has a prosperity so high or
firm, but two or three words can dishearten it. There is no calamity which right words will
not begin to redress. Isocrates described his art, as "the power of magnifying what was small
and diminishing what was great";--an acute, but partial definition. Among the Spartans, the
art assumed a Spartan shape, namely, of the sharpest weapon. Plato's definition of rhetoric
is, "the art of ruling the minds of men." The Koran says, "A mountain may change its place,
but a man will not change his disposition";--yet the end of eloquence is,--is it not?--to alter
in a pair of hours, perhaps in a half-hour's discourse, the convictions and habits of years.
Young men, too, are eager to enjoy this sense of added power and enlarged sympathetic existence.
The orator sees himself the organ of a multitude, and concentrating their valors and powers:

  "But now the blood of twenty thousand men
  Blushed in my face."

That which he wishes, that which eloquence ought to reach, is, not a particular skill in telling
a story, or neatly summing up evidence, or arguing logically, or dexterously addressing the
prejudice of the company; no, but a taking sovereign possession of the audience.

This is that despotism which poets have celebrated in the "Pied Piper of Hamelin," whose music
drew like the power of gravitation,--drew soldiers and priests, traders and feasters, women
and boys, rats and mice; or that of the minstrel of Meudon, who made the pallbearers dance
around the bier. This is a power of many degrees, and requiring in the orator a great range
of faculty and experience, requiring a large composite man, such as Nature rarely organizes,
so that, in our experience, we are forced to gather up the figure in fragments, here one talent,
and there another.

The audience is a constant metre of the orator. There are many audiences in every public assembly,
each one of which rules in turn. If anything comic and coarse is spoken, you shall see the
emergence of the boys and rowdies, so loud and vivacious, that you might think the house was
filled with them. If new topics are started, graver and higher, these roisters recede; a more
chaste and wise attention takes place. You would think the boys slept, and that the men have
any degree of profoundness. If the speaker utter a noble sentiment, the attention deepens,
a new and highest audience now listens, and the audiences of the fun and of facts and of the
understanding are all silenced and awed. There is also something excellent in every audience,--the
capacity of virtue. They are ready to be beatified. They know so much more than the orator,--and
are so just! There is a tablet there for every line he can inscribe, though he should mount
to the highest levels. Humble persons are conscious of new illumination; narrow brows expand
with enlarged affections: delicate spirits, long unknown to themselves, masked and muffled
in coarsest fortunes, who now hear their own native language for the first time, and leap to
hear it. But all these several audiences, each above each, which successively appear to greet
the variety of style and topic, are really composed out of the same persons; nay, sometimes
the same individual will take active part in them all, in turn.

This range of many powers in the consummate speaker and of many audiences in one assembly leads
us to consider the successive stages of oratory.

Perhaps it is the lowest of the qualities of an orator, but it is, on so many occasions, of
chief importance,--a certain robust and radiant physical health,--or, shall I say? great volumes
of animal heat. When each auditor feels himself to make too large a part of the assembly, and
shudders with cold at the thinness of the morning audience, and with fear lest all will heavily
fail through one bad speech, mere energy and mellowness are then inestimable. Wisdom and learning
would be harsh and unwelcome, compared with a substantial cordial man, made of milk, as we
say, who is a house-warmer, with his obvious honesty and good meaning, and a hue-and-cry style
of harangue, which inundates the assembly with a flood of animal spirits, and makes all safe
and secure, so that any and every sort of good speaking becomes at once practicable. I do not
rate this animal eloquence very highly, and yet, as we must be fed and warmed before we can
do any work well, even the best, so is this semi-animal exuberance, like a good stove, of the
first necessity in a cold house.

Climate has much to do with it,--climate and race. Set a New Englander to describe any accident
which happened in his presence. What hesitation and reserve in his narrative! He tells with
difficulty some particulars, and gets as fast as he can to the result, and, though he cannot
describe, hopes to suggest the whole scene. Now listen to a poor Irish-woman recounting some
experience of hers. Her speech flows like a river,--so unconsidered, so humorous, so pathetic,
such justice done to all the parts! It is a true transubstantiation,--the fact converted into
speech, all warm and colored and alive, as it fell out. Our Southern people are almost all
speakers, and have every advantage over the New England people, whose climate is so cold, that,
'tis said, we do not like to open our mouths very wide. But neither can the Southerner in the
United States, nor the Irish, compare with the lively inhabitant of the South of Europe. The
traveller in Sicily needs no gayer melodramatic exhibition than the table d'hôte of his inn
will afford him, in the conversation of the joyous guests. They mimic the voice and manner
of the person they describe; they crow, squeal, hiss, cackle, bark, and scream like mad, and,
were it only by the physical strength exerted in telling the story, keep the table in unbounded
excitement. But in every constitution some large degree of animal vigor is necessary as material
foundation for the higher qualities of the art.

But eloquence must be attractive, or it is none. The virtue of books is to be readable, and
of orators to be interesting, and this is a gift of Nature; as Demosthenes, the most laborious
student in that kind, signified his sense of this necessity when he wrote, "Good Fortune,"
as his motto on his shield. As we know, the power of discourse of certain individuals amounts
to fascination, though it may have no lasting effect. Some portion of this sugar must intermingle.
The right eloquence needs no bell to call the people together, and no constable to keep them.
It draws the children from their play, the old from their arm-chairs, and the invalid from
his warm chamber; it holds the hearer fast, steals away his feet, that he shall not depart,--his
memory, that he shall not remember the most pressing affairs,--his belief, that he shall not
admit any opposing considerations. The pictures we have of it in semi-barbarous ages, when
it has some advantages in the simpler habit of the people, show what it aims at. It is said
that the Khans, or story-tellers in Ispahan and other cities of the East, attain a controlling
power over their audience, keeping them for many hours attentive to the most fanciful and extravagant
adventures. The whole world knows pretty well the style of these improvisators, and how fascinating
they are, in our translations of the "Arabian Nights." Scheherzarade tells these stories to
save her life, and the delight of young Europe and young America in them proves that she fairly
earned it. And who does not remember in childhood some white or black or yellow Scheherzarade,
who, by that talent of telling endless feats of fairies and magicians, and kings and queens,
was more dear and wonderful to a circle of children than any orator of England or America is
now? The more indolent and imaginative complexion of the Eastern nations makes them much more
impressible by these appeals to the fancy.

These legends are only exaggerations of real occurrences, and every literature contains these
high compliments to the art of the orator and the bard, from the Hebrew and the Greek down
to the Scottish Glenkindie, who

  --"harpit a fish out o' saut water,
    Or water out of a stone,
  Or milk out of a maiden's breast
    Who bairn had never none."

Homer specially delighted in drawing the same figure. For what is the "Odyssey," but a history
of the orator, in the largest style, carried through a series of adventures furnishing brilliant
opportunities to his talent? See with what care and pleasure the poet brings him on the stage.
Helen is pointing out to Antenor, from a tower, the different Grecian chiefs. "Antenor said:
'Tell me, dear child, who is that man, shorter by a head than Agamemnon, yet he looks broader
in his shoulders and breast. His arms lie on the ground, but he, like a leader, walks about
the bands of the men. He seems to me like a stately ram, who goes as a master of the flock.'
Him answered Helen, daughter of Jove: 'This is the wise Ulysses, son of Laertes, who was reared
in the state of craggy Ithaca, knowing all wiles and wise counsels.' To her the prudent Antenor
replied again: 'O woman, you have spoken truly. For once the wise Ulysses came hither on an
embassy, with Menelaus, beloved by Mars. I received them, and entertained them at my house.
I became acquainted with the genius and the prudent judgments of both. When they mixed with
the assembled Trojans and stood, the broad shoulders of Menelaus rose above the other; but,
both sitting, Ulysses was more majestic. When they conversed, and interweaved stories and opinions
with all; Menelaus spoke succinctly, few but very sweet words, since he was not talkative,
nor superfluous in speech, and was the younger. But when the wise Ulysses arose, and stood,
and looked down, fixing his eyes on the ground, and neither moved his sceptre backward nor
forward, but held it still, like an awkward person, you would say it was some angry or foolish
man; but when he sent his great voice forth out of his breast, and his words fell like the
winter snows, not then would any mortal contend with Ulysses; and we, beholding, wondered not
afterwards so much at his aspect." [Iliad, III. 192.]

Thus he does not fail to arm Ulysses at first with this power of overcoming all opposition
by the blandishments of speech. Plutarch tells us that Thucydides, when Archidamus, king of
Sparta, asked him, Which was the best wrestler, Pericles or he? replied, "When I throw him,
he says he was never down, and he persuades the very spectators to believe him." Philip of
Macedon said of Demosthenes, on hearing the report of one of his orations, "Had I been there,
he would have persuaded me to take up arms against myself"; and Warren Hastings said of Burke's
speech on his impeachment, "As I listened to the orator, I felt for more than half an hour
as if I were the most culpable being on earth."

In these examples, higher qualities have already entered; but the power of detaining the ear
by pleasing speech, and addressing the fancy and imagination, often exists without higher merits.
Thus separated, as this fascination of discourse aims only at amusement, though it be decisive
in its momentary effect, it is yet a juggle, and of no lasting power. It is heard like a band
of music passing through the streets, which converts all the passengers into poets, but is
forgotten as soon as it has turned the next corner; and unless this oiled tongue could, in
Oriental phrase, lick the sun and moon away, it must take its place with opium and brandy.
I know no remedy against it but cotton-wool, or the wax which Ulysses stuffed into the ears
of his sailors to pass the Sirens safely.

There are all degrees of power, and the least are interesting, but they must not be confounded.
There is the glib tongue and cool self-possession of the salesman in a large shop, which, as
is well known, overpower the prudence and resolution of housekeepers of both sexes. There is
a petty lawyer's fluency, which is sufficiently impressive to him who is devoid of that talent,
though it be, in so many cases, nothing more than a facility of expressing with accuracy and
speed what everybody thinks and says more slowly, without new information, or precision of
thought,--but the same thing, neither less nor more. It requires no special insight to edit
one of our country newspapers. Yet whoever can say off currently, sentence by sentence, matter
neither better nor worse than what is there printed, will be very impressive to our easily-pleased
population. These talkers are that class who prosper like the celebrated schoolmaster, by being
only one lesson ahead of the pupil. Add a little sarcasm, and prompt allusion to passing occurrences,
and you have the mischievous member of Congress. A spice of malice, a ruffian touch in his
rhetoric, will do him no harm with his audience. These accomplishments are of the same kind,
and only a degree higher than the coaxing of the auctioneer, or the vituperative style well
described in the street-word "jawing." These kinds of public and private speaking have their
use and convenience to the practitioners; but we may say of such collectively, that the habit
of oratory is apt to disqualify them for eloquence.

One of our statesmen said, "The curse of this country is eloquent men." And one cannot wonder
at the uneasiness sometimes manifested by trained statesmen, with large experience of public
affairs, when they observe the disproportionate advantage suddenly given to oratory over the
most solid and accumulated public service. In a Senate or other business committee, the solid
result depends on a few men with working talent. They know how to deal with the facts before
them, to put things into a practical shape, and they value men only as they can forward the
work. But some new man comes there, who has no capacity for helping them at all, is insignificant,
and nobody in the committee, but has a talent for speaking. In the debate with open doors,
this precious person makes a speech, which is printed, and read all over the Union, and he
at once becomes famous, and takes the lead in the public mind over all these executive men,
who, of course, are full of indignation to find one who has no tact or skill, and knows he
has none, put over them by means of this talking power which they despise.

Leaving behind us these pretensions, better or worse, to come a little nearer to the verity,
eloquence is attractive as an example of the magic of personal ascendency;--a total and resultant
power,--rare, because it requires a rich coincidence of powers, intellect, will, sympathy,
organs, and, over all, good-fortune in the cause. What we really wish for is a mind equal to
any exigency. You are safe in your rural district, or in the city, in broad daylight, amidst
the police, and under the eyes of a hundred thousand people. But how is it on the Atlantic,
in a storm? Do you understand how to infuse your reason into men disabled by terror, and to
bring yourself off safe then?--how among thieves, or among an infuriated populace, or among
cannibals? Face to face with a highwayman who has every temptation and opportunity for violence
and plunder, can you bring yourself off safe by your wit, exercised through speech?--a problem
easy enough to Caesar, or Napoleon. Whenever a man of that stamp arrives, the highwayman has
found a master. What a difference between men in power of face! A man succeeds because he has
more power of eye than another, and so coaxes or confounds him. The newspapers, every week,
report the adventures of some impudent swindler, who, by steadiness of carriage, duped those
who should have known better. Yet any swindlers we have known are novices and bunglers, as
is attested by their ill name. A greater power of face would accomplish anything, and, with
the rest of their takings, take away the bad name. A greater power of carrying the thing loftily,
and with perfect assurance, would confound merchant, banker, judge, men of influence and power,
poet, and president, and might head any party, unseat any sovereign, and abrogate any constitution
in Europe and America. It was said, that a man has at one step attained vast power, who has
renounced his moral sentiment, and settled it with himself that he will no longer stick at
anything. It was said of Sir William Pepperel, one of the worthies of New England, that, "put
him where you might, he commanded, and saw what he willed come to pass." Julius Caesar said
to Metellus, when that tribune interfered to hinder him from entering the Roman treasury, "Young
man, it is easier for me to put you to death than to say that I will"; and the youth yielded.
In earlier days, he was taken by pirates. What then? He threw himself into their ship; established
the most extraordinary intimacies; told them stories; declaimed to them; if they did not applaud
his speeches, he threatened them with hanging,--which he performed afterwards,--and, in a short
time, was master of all on board. A man this is who cannot be disconcerted, and so can never
play his last card, but has a reserve of power when he has hit his mark. With a serene face,
he subverts a kingdom. What is told of him is miraculous; it affects men so. The confidence
of men in him is lavish, and he changes the face of the world, and histories, poems, and new
philosophies arise to account for him. A supreme commander over all his passions and affections;
but the secret of his ruling is higher than that. It is the power of Nature running without
impediment from the brain and will into the hands. Men and women are his game. Where they are,
he cannot be without resource. "Whoso can speak well," said Luther, "is a man." It was men
of this stamp that the Grecian States used to ask of Sparta for generals. They did not send
to Lacedaemon for troops, but they said, "Send us a commander"; and Pausanias, or Gylippus,
or Brasidas, or Agis, was despatched by the Ephors.

It is easy to illustrate this overpowering personality by these examples of soldiers and kings;
but there are men of the most peaceful way of life, and peaceful principle, who are felt, wherever
they go, as sensibly as a July sun or a December frost,--men who, if they speak, are heard,
though they speak in a whisper,--who, when they act, act effectually, and what they do is imitated:
and these examples may be found on very humble platforms, as well as on high ones.

In old countries, a high money-value is set on the services of men who have achieved a personal
distinction. He who has points to carry must hire, not a skilful attorney, but a commanding
person. A barrister in England is reputed to have made twenty or thirty thousand pounds per
annum in representing the claims of railroad companies before committees of the House of Commons.
His clients pay not so much for legal as for manly accomplishments,--for courage, conduct,
and a commanding social position, which enable him to make their claims heard and respected.

I know very well, that, among our cool and calculating people, where every man mounts guard
over himself, where heats and panics and abandonments are quite out of the system, there is
a good deal of skepticism as to extraordinary influence. To talk of an overpowering mind rouses
the same jealousy and defiance which one may observe round a table where anybody is recounting
the marvellous anecdotes of mesmerism. Each auditor puts a final stroke to the discourse by
exclaiming, "Can he mesmerize me?" So each man inquires if any orator can change his convictions.

But does any one suppose himself to be quite impregnable? Does he think that not possibly a
man may come to him who shall persuade him out of his most settled determination?--for example,
good sedate citizen as he is, to make a fanatic of him? or, if he is penurious, to squander
money for some purpose he now least thinks of? or, if he is a prudent, industrious person,
to forsake his work, and give days and weeks to a new interest? No, he defies any one, every
one. Ah! he is thinking of resistance, and of a different turn from his own. But what if one
should come of the same turn of mind as his own, and who sees much farther on his own way than
he? A man who has tastes like mine, but in greater power, will rule me any day, and make me
love my ruler.

Thus it is not powers of speech that we primarily consider under this word Eloquence, but the
power that, being present, gives them their perfection, and, being absent, leaves them a merely
superficial value. Eloquence is the appropriate organ of the highest personal energy. Personal
ascendency may exist with or without adequate talent for its expression. It is as surely felt
as a mountain or a planet; but when it is weaponed with a power of speech, it seems first to
become truly human, works actively in all directions, and supplies the imagination with fine
materials.

This circumstance enters into every consideration of the power of orators, and is the key to
all their effects. In the assembly, you shall find the orator and the audience in perpetual
balance, and the predominance of either is indicated by the choice of topic. If the talents
for speaking exist, but not the strong personality, then there are good speakers who perfectly
receive and express the will of the audience, and the commonest populace is flattered by hearing
its low mind returned to it with every ornament which happy talent can add. But if there be
personality in the orator, the face of things changes. The audience is thrown into the attitude
of pupil, follows like a child its preceptor, and hears what he has to say. It is as if, amidst
the king's council at Madrid, Ximenes urged that an advantage might be gained of France, and
Mendoza that Flanders might be kept down, and Columbus, being introduced, was interrogated
whether his geographical knowledge could aid the cabinet, and he can say nothing to one party
or to the other, but he can show how all Europe can be diminished and reduced under the king
by annexing to Spain a continent as large as six or seven Europes.

This balance between the orator and the audience is expressed in what is called the pertinence
of the speaker. There is always a rivalry between the orator and the occasion, between the
demands of the hour and the prepossession of the individual. The emergency which has convened
the meeting is usually of more importance than anything the debaters have in their minds, and
therefore becomes imperative to them. But if one of them have anything of commanding necessity
in his heart, how speedily he will find vent for it, and with the applause of the assembly!
This balance is observed in the privatest intercourse. Poor Tom never knew the time when the
present occurrence was so trivial that he could tell what was passing in his mind without being
checked for unseasonable speech; but let Bacon speak, and wise men would rather listen, though
the revolution of kingdoms was on foot. I have heard it reported of an eloquent preacher, whose
voice is not yet forgotten in this city, that, on occasions of death or tragic disaster, which
overspread the congregation with gloom, he ascended the pulpit with more than his usual alacrity,
and, turning to his favorite lessons of devout and jubilant thankfulness, "Let us praise the
Lord," carried audience, mourners, and mourning along with him, and swept away all the impertinence
of private sorrow with his hosannas and songs of praise. [Diary, I. 469.]

