In the old days love was a cruel proprietary thing. But now Anna could let Nettie live in the
world of my mind, as freely as a rose will suffer the presence of white lilies. If I could
hear notes that were not in her compass, she was glad, because she loved me, that I should
listen to other music than hers. And she, too, could see the beauty of Nettie. Life is so rich
and generous now, giving friendship, and a thousand tender interests and helps and comforts,
that no one stints another of the full realization of all possibilities of beauty. For me from
the beginning Nettie was the figure of beauty, the shape and color of the divine principle
that lights the world. For every one there are certain types, certain faces and forms, gestures,
voices and intonations that have that inexplicable unanalyzable quality. These come through
the crowd of kindly friendly fellow-men and women--one's own. These touch one mysteriously,
stir deeps that must otherwise slumber, pierce and interpret the world. To refuse this interpretation
is to refuse the sun, to darken and deaden all life. . . . I loved Nettie, I loved all who
were like her, in the measure that they were like her, in voice, or eyes, or form, or smile.
And between my wife and me there was no bitterness that the great goddess, the life-giver,
Aphrodite, Queen of the living Seas, came to my imagination so. It qualified our mutual love
not at all, since now in our changed world love is unstinted; it is a golden net about our
globe that nets all humanity together.

I thought of Nettie much, and always movingly beautiful things restored me to her, all fine
music, all pure deep color, all tender and solemn things. The stars were hers, and the mystery
of moonlight; the sun she wore in her hair, powdered finely, beaten into gleams and threads
of sunlight in the wisps and strands of her hair. . . . Then suddenly one day a letter came
to me from her, in her unaltered clear handwriting, but in a new language of expression, telling
me many things. She had learnt of my mother's death, and the thought of me had grown so strong
as to pierce the silence I had imposed on her. We wrote to one another--like common friends
with a certain restraint between us at first, and with a great longing to see her once more
arising in my heart. For a time I left that hunger unexpressed, and then I was moved to tell
it to her. And so on New Year's Day in the Year Four, she came to Lowchester and me. How I
remember that coming, across the gulf of fifty years! I went out across the park to meet her,
so that we should meet alone. The windless morning was clear and cold, the ground new carpeted
with snow, and all the trees motionless lace and glitter of frosty crystals. The rising sun
had touched the white with a spirit of gold, and my heart beat and sang within me. I remember
now the snowy shoulder of the down, sunlit against the bright blue sky. And presently I saw
the woman I loved coming through the white still trees. . . .

I had made a goddess of Nettie, and behold she was a fellow-creature! She came, warm-wrapped
and tremulous, to me, with the tender promise of tears in her eyes, with her hands outstretched
and that dear smile quivering upon her lips. She stepped out of the dream I had made of her,
a thing of needs and regrets and human kindliness. Her hands as I took them were a little cold.
The goddess shone through her indeed, glowed in all her body, she was a worshipful temple of
love for me--yes. But I could feel, like a thing new discovered, the texture and sinews of
her living, her dear personal and mortal hands. . . .

THE EPILOGUE

THE WINDOW OF THE TOWER

This was as much as this pleasant-looking, gray-haired man had written. I had been lost in
his story throughout the earlier portions of it, forgetful of the writer and his gracious room,
and the high tower in which he was sitting. But gradually, as I drew near the end, the sense
of strangeness returned to me. It was more and more evident to me that this was a different
humanity from any I had known, unreal, having different customs, different beliefs, different
interpretations, different emotions. It was no mere change in conditions and institutions the
comet had wrought. It had made a change of heart and mind. In a manner it had dehumanized the
world, robbed it of its spites, its little intense jealousies, its inconsistencies, its humor.
At the end, and particularly after the death of his mother, I felt his story had slipped away
from my sympathies altogether. Those Beltane fires had burnt something in him that worked living
still and unsubdued in me, that rebelled in particular at that return of Nettie. I became a
little inattentive. I no longer felt with him, nor gathered a sense of complete understanding
from his phrases. His Lord Eros indeed! He and these transfigured people--they were beautiful
and noble people, like the people one sees in great pictures, like the gods of noble sculpture,
but they had no nearer fellowship than these to men. As the change was realized, with every
stage of realization the gulf widened and it was harder to follow his words.

I put down the last fascicle of all, and met his friendly eyes. It was hard to dislike him.

I felt a subtle embarrassment in putting the question that perplexed me. And yet it seemed
so material to me I had to put it. "And did you--?" I asked. "Were you--lovers?"

His eyebrows rose. "Of course."

"But your wife--?"

It was manifest he did not understand me.

I hesitated still more. I was perplexed by a conviction of baseness. "But--" I began. "You
remained lovers?"

"Yes." I had grave doubts if I understood him. Or he me.

I made a still more courageous attempt. "And had Nettie no other lovers?"

"A beautiful woman like that! I know not how many loved beauty in her, nor what she found in
others. But we four from that time were very close, you understand, we were friends, helpers,
personal lovers in a world of lovers."

"Four?"

"There was Verrall."

Then suddenly it came to me that the thoughts that stirred in my mind were sinister and base,
that the queer suspicions, the coarseness and coarse jealousies of my old world were over and
done for these more finely living souls. "You made," I said, trying to be liberal minded, "a
home together."

"A home!" He looked at me, and, I know not why, I glanced down at my feet. What a clumsy, ill-made
thing a boot is, and how hard and colorless seemed my clothing! How harshly I stood out amidst
these fine, perfected things. I had a moment of rebellious detestation. I wanted to get out
of all this. After all, it wasn't my style. I wanted intensely to say something that would
bring him down a peg, make sure, as it were, of my suspicions by launching an offensive accusation.
I looked up and he was standing.

"I forgot," he said. "You are pretending the old world is still going on. A home!"

He put out his hand, and quite noiselessly the great window widened down to us, and the splendid
nearer prospect of that dreamland city was before me. There for one clear moment I saw it;
its galleries and open spaces, its trees of golden fruit and crystal waters, its music and
rejoicing, love and beauty without ceasing flowing through its varied and intricate streets.
And the nearer people I saw now directly and plainly, and no longer in the distorted mirror
that hung overhead. They really did not justify my suspicions, and yet--! They were such people
as one sees on earth--save that they were changed. How can I express that change? As a woman
is changed in the eyes of her lover, as a woman is changed by the love of a lover. They were
exalted. . . .

