 Thus much accomplished, every
boy provides himself with an old tomato or other can, and it would surprise anyone not familiar
with these things, to see how rapidly and ingeniously these dock rats will fill those cans
to overflowing with all kinds of goods, from the openings thus made in the vessel containing them.

These same tactics are employed by the street gamins in front of those grocery stores where
barrels, boxes and cases are placed upon the sidewalk, and it is almost an impossibility for
any one but the sharpest to catch them thus stealing, so clever and adroit are they. One of
their very neat tricks is for a boy to place himself in view of the proprietor of a store,
who, knowing the youth is after some of the goods outside, keeps a sharp eye on him. Suddenly,
the boy makes a dash for some oranges and flies up the street, the proprietor in full chase.
At the distance of, perhaps, half a block, the boy stops, allowing himself to be caught, when
the irate shopkeeper roughly clutches him and, looking for the oranges stolen, is considerably
chopfallen to find the boy has taken nothing. Upon being asked why he run away, the boy says
he "thought he saw his brother and ran after him to speak to him." It seems plain enough, and
the grocery man returns to find that, in his absence, twenty boys have plenteously helped themselves
to everything within reach. It is now too late to re-catch the boy that he first ran after.
It is a piece of strategic cleverness that rarely fails to succeed; and if any one underrates
the finesse of the street Arabs of New York, he will stand a very good chance some day of being
a sufferer from them.

The operations of these embryo professionals are not confined to any one kind of theft. They
are adepts in all the ways of petty thieving. Sometimes, a drunken sailor or 'longshoreman
will stagger out of a saloon and, unsteadily navigating along, will fall, or seat himself on
a door-step and, either falling asleep or into a semi-conscious condition, will be surrounded
by a gang of these playful boys, while one, the leader, probably, will sneak up to the unlucky
man and relieve him of all he has about him, when they will scamper off.

These boys are often taken in hand by professional burglars, who use them to keep watch, posting
one of them as a sentry, perhaps employing another to squeeze through some small aperture and
open the doors of the place to be burglarized, for the fact of their whole lives being passed
upon the streets their education is of that character which tends to make them quick, bright,
smart and skillful in all things, and, when added to natural gifts of intelligence, render
them very dangerous as thieves or thieves' assistants. Readers of Charles Dickens will recall,
in this connection, the use to which burglar Bill Sykes applied little Oliver Twist.

Many of these gamins have houses under the docks. The floor is laid just above high-water mark.
It is boarded in on all sides with lumber stolen, day by day, from adjoining yards. Here they
pass their leisure time in comparative safety and quiet, and considerable comfort, as the whole
gang contribute to furnishing up the club-rooms. Stoves, chairs, tables, benches, and other
evidences of taste, are to be found there, and an occasional cheap picture, circus bill or
flash theatrical poster ornaments the sides of this not uncomfortable place. Here the members
play cards, dice and other games, drink beer, smoke and otherwise enjoy themselves. These houses
sometimes exist for years unknown to the police, and many a boy, detected in the commission
of some petty theft, has run along the pier, pursued by the policeman, when, suddenly scrambling
over the pier, he has disappeared, leaving the wondering officer to guess what had become of him.

In some portions of the town, garrets are made use of as club-rooms and places of rendezvous,
and are exceedingly well arranged. These places are used as storehouses, too, for the safe-keeping
of stolen articles of all kinds.

An instance of the daring and ingenuity of these "wharf rats," as well as an illustration of
some of their methods, is furnished in the following: Procuring a boat--loaned frequently with
the owner's knowledge of what it is to be used for--these boys will row, with muffled oars,
under some dock having valuable goods upon it. The only sound that disturbs the silence of
the night is the dull splash, splash and swish of the waters against the dock or some vessel
moored there. Everything is quiet, while the night watchman slowly paces along his narrow beat,
at the one end of which are the dancing, moonlit waters and at the other the sleeping city.
A favorable chance offering, the heads of the boys appear above the string-piece, and a bag
or sack is hurriedly lowered into the boat. Other goods follow until, sufficient having been
taken, the boat moves off as silently as it appeared. Sometimes, a boat is rowed under the
pier where barrels of whisky or other spirits lie, and, by inserting an auger between the planks
of the dock, a hole is bored in the barrel, when the liquor which escapes is guided into a
barrel. In this way many goods are stolen right under the noses, apparently, of the watchmen
and guardians.

Sometimes these wharf rats are captured in the act, when fierce fights ensue. They know there
is no escaping punishment, and they fight desperately. Having no homes or parents there is
no escape for them, for, even if not convicted of the theft, they must go to the House of Refuge.

After all, but little blame can be attached to these unfortunate boys and girls, for they are
just precisely what their associations have made them. They learn to swear, smoke, chew, steal,
before they can walk, and grow up to be what they are. The House of Refuge only serves to confirm
them in their viciousness and evil propensities by herding them with other criminals; so that,
by the time they are released they are ready and willing to take greater chances in securing
larger results, when the end invariably is the State prison--probably for life.

CHAPTER IV.

STORE GIRLS.

Their Fascinations, Foibles and Temptations.

Since the time when Mary Rogers, the beautiful cigar girl of Broadway, met her sad fate over
in Hoboken, the pretty shop girls of New York have contributed more than their full quota to
the city's contemporaneous history. They have figured in connection with many of its social
romances and domestic infelicities, as well as with its scandals and its crimes--secret and
revealed. In Gotham's grave and gay aspects--in its comedy, its tragedy, and its melo-drama,
we are perpetually running across the charming face, graceful form, and easy, gay demeanor
of the pretty shop girl.

As a rule, the temptress of the store is pretty--frequently quite beautiful, and almost invariably
handsomer than those fortunate daughters of Mammon whom she is called upon to serve, and who
often treat her with such top-lofty hauteur. And how stylish she frequently is, and how difficult
it is to describe this incommunicable quality of style, which those artful setters of baits--the
dealers in ready-made fabrics--understand so well! Who has not noticed how the tall, slender-framed
girls, with their graceful movements and flexible spines, their long, smooth throats and curved
waists, are drafted off to stand as veritable decoy-ducks? Who has not observed the grace and
ease with which they wear risky patterns and unusual façons, and so delude the arrogant but
ungraceful customer into buying, in the belief that she will look just as well as the pretty
model? The average well-to-do woman, with some pretensions to good looks, sees a beautiful
young creature with Junoesque air parading before her in bold color-combinations and doubtful
harmonies, and she imagines she can venture the same thing with like effect. But alas! what
a travesty the experiment frequently is!

Many of the New Yorkers who read this page will recall the Original Dollar Store on Broadway
and its fascinating young salesladies. Some of these were perfect sirens with their loveliness
of feature and delicacy of color; their luxuriant hair, made amenable to the discipline of
the prevailing fashion; the gown stylish and perfect, and frequently not at all reticent in
its revelations of form; the countenance calm, watchful and intelligent--frequently mischievous;
the walk something akin to the serene consciousness of power which we are told that Phryne
exemplified before her judges, and accompanied with that grace which is the birthright of beauty
in every age and under any circumstances.

For many reasons the tone of morality, in some instances, among store girls in this city is
not high. A variety of obvious causes contribute to this result, among which may be mentioned
their generally poor salaries: their natural levity, and the example of their companions; their
love of dress and display, coupled with a natural desire for masculine attentions; long hours
in close, impure air; sensational literature; frequent absence of healthy or adequate home
influence; and the many temptations which beset an attractive girl in such a position.

Many of them enter stores as mere children in the capacity of cash girls. They are the children
of poor parents, and as they grow up to young maidenhood, they acquire a sort of superficial
polish in the store, and are brightened without being educated. Some grow up and take their
places as full-blown salesladies, and begin to sigh for the gayety of the streets, for freedom
from restraint, and for amusements that are not within their reach. Naturally au fait in style,
with taste and clever fingers, they dress in an attractive manner, with the hope of beguiling
the ideal hero they have constructed from the pages of the trashy story paper. It is a sort
of voluntary species of sacrifice on their part--a kind of suicidal decking with flowers, and
making preparation for immolation. Full of pernicious sentimentality, they are open to the
first promising flirtation. They see elegantly-dressed and diamonded ladies, and their imagination
is fed from the fountains of vulgar literature until they dream that they, too, are destined
to be won by some splendid cavalier of fabulous wealth. Learning from the wishy-washy literature
that their face is their fortune, and so, reading what happened to others, and how perfectly
lovely and romantic it all was, they are ready for the wiles of the first gay deceiver. Waiting
in vain for their god-like ideal, they are finally content to look a little lower, and favorably
receive the immodest addresses of some clerk in their own store, or succeed in making a street
"mash."

Sometimes the pretty girl rushes impetuously into marriage, repents and separates from her
husband. She is still good looking, and her marital experience has given her an air of easy
assurance, and she readily finds employment as a saleslady. Her influence afterwards, among
girls comparatively innocent and without her experience, cannot but be pernicious, and at the
same time must exert a certain formative and shaping process in determing the peculiar character
of the whole class of girls in the store.

Very frequently she does not attain even to the questionable dignity of a marriage ceremony.
Flattered by the attentions of some swell, the pretty shop girl will be induced to accompany
him to the theatre and to supper in a concert saloon. Her vanity is kindled by his appearance.
She rejoices in the style of his clothes, in the magnificence of his jewelry, and she thinks
her mission in life is to walk beside the splendid swell, amid rose gardens, theatres and supper
rooms, for the remainder of her life. Finally she yields to his soft solicitations, and her
prospects are forever blighted. She becomes an incorrigible flirt, meets her "fellows" on the
corner of the street near the store, spends a certain number of evenings and nights with them
at hotels where no course of catechism takes place at the clerk's desk. She goes to Coney Island
or local beer gardens on Sundays, manifesting a vivid animal pleasure in her enjoyment, with
little manifestation of gratitude towards her escort who is supplying the money.

Sometimes, again, an exceptionally pretty girl will fall a victim to the proprietor, the manager
or some of the superintendents of the store; and there have been cases of this kind heard in
the courts, in one of which the proprietor not only seduced the girl, but married her, afterwards
obtaining a divorce because of her incontinence. Sometimes the lapse of these girls from the
paths of virtue is accompanied with exceptional hardships. The young lady is beautiful as well
as good perhaps, and the pride of her idolizing parents, who have taught her that she is fit
to be the wife of a duke. She attracts the eye of a man about town, and the process of courting
and flattery--of sapping and mining--begins, with the result that he has had in view since
the inception of the acquaintance. He is sorry at her situation; but she is hardly the person
for him to marry, even with her blooming, flower-like face. In such a situation--and such situations
are far too common with the class--Byron's lines, slightly altered, seem peculiarly applicable
to the pretty shop girl:

"'Twas thine own beauty gave the fatal blow, And help'd to plant the wound that laid thee low."

Sometimes it happens that the pretty girl, wearied of waiting for her knightly deliverer, comes
across the advertisement of a gifted seeress--the seventh daughter of a seventh daughter, perchance,
or "the only English prophetess who has the genuine Roman and Arabian talismans for love, good
luck, and all business affairs;" or the wonderful clairvoyant who can be "consulted on absent
friends, love, courtship and marriage." Not infrequently she falls into the toils of those
advertising frauds, who frequently combine the vile trade of procuress with the ostensible
trade of fortune-telling. When the girl is drawn to this den, the trump card offered her is,
of course, the young gentleman, rich as Crœsus and handsome as Adonis, with whom she is to
fall in love. He is generally described with considerable minuteness, and the time and place
of meeting foretold. This may be fictitious, and it is fortunate for her if it is so. Rut the
seeress too frequently needs no powers of clairvoyance or ratiocination to make these disclosures,
for some roue; who has exhausted the ordinary rounds of dissipation, or some fast young fellow
seeking a change, has made a bargain with the prophetess for a new and innocent victim--the
amount of the fee to depend on the means and liberality of the libertine and the attractiveness
of the victim. The vain, silly girl is dazzled with the wily woman's story, and readily promises
to call again. At her next visit the man inspects her from some place of concealment, and if
she meets his views, either an introduction takes place or a rendezvous is perfected. Thus
the acquaintance begins, with the result which every intelligent reader can see for himself.
Sometimes the picture of the scamp is shown, but in every case there is but one end in view
on the part of the seeress, and that end is almost invariably achieved. The girl thus becomes
clandestinely "gay," and spreads the influence of her evil example and impure associations
among her shopmates. Pope has told us in four immortal lines the effects of a constant contact
with vice.

In the case of the class of young girls under consideration this truth is peculiarly applicable.
In consequence of their associations they hear and see things whose influence is almost wholly
bad and pernicious. Those disguised advertisements in the newspapers called "Personals" are
of this evil character. To young girls, with minds imperfectly disciplined, there is a fatal
fascination in the mystery of surreptitious appointments and meetings. Mystery is so suggestive
and romantic, and the young girl who, from piqued curiosity, is tempted to dally with a "Matrimonial"
or a "Personal," is an object of commiseration. From dallying and reading and wondering, the
step is easy to answer such notices. She believes that she has a chance of getting a rich and
handsome husband, who will take her to Europe, and, in other respects, make her life a sort
of earthly paradise. The men who write such advertisements know this besetting female weakness
and bait their trap accordingly. And so a young girl, too frequently, walks alone and unadvised
into the meshes of an acquaintanceship which leads to her ruin. It is perhaps as useless to
ask the men who are base enough to conceive these things to refrain from publishing them, as
it is to urge the mercenary proprietors of certain newspapers to refrain from printing them
in their columns. Yet it must be perfectly clear to all right-thinking minds, that it is in
vain for parents to warn, parsons to preach, friends to advise, for the good to deplore, and
the ignorant to wonder, at the increasing deterioration of our metropolitan morals, while these
tempting lures to feminine destruction are so alluringly displayed.

It would be doing very imperfect justice to this theme did we fail to record our conviction
that some of the salesladies and shop girls of the city are thoroughly good, virtuous, honest
and respectable. Many of them, amid unhealthy influences and corroding associations, preserve
the white flower of a blameless life, and become the honored wives of respectable citizens.
But these are a small minority. At the same time it is useless to disguise the fact that there
are others whose character needs stronger colors for proper delineation than have hitherto
been employed. There are those among pretty shop girls who simply give up their leisure time
to surreptitious appointments. This is the worst and most dangerous form in which this prevalent
vice stalks abroad, and it more clearly stamps the character of a community than does its more
open and brazen manifestations. Many causes may lead to a woman's becoming a professional harlot,
but if a girl "goes wrong" without any very cogent reason for so doing, there must be something
radically unsound in her composition and inherently bad in her nature to lead her to abandon
her person to the other sex, who are at all times ready to take advantage of a woman's weakness
and a woman's love. Seduction and clandestine prostitution have made enormous strides in New
York, and especially among the young women and girls connected with stores, within the last decade.

Not long ago a woman, who then occupied a prominent position in a Sixth avenue store, was met
up-town in the evening. She is very good looking--strong and lithe and tall, with a cloud of
handsome hair that glistens like bronze; large dreamy eyes that flash and scintillate witchingly;
a handsome, pouting, ruddy mouth; while her neck, white and statuesque, crowns the full bosom
of a goddess. She said that she came out evenings occasionally to make money, not for the purpose
of subsistence, but to meet debts that her extravagance had caused her to contract. She said
in substance: "You see my appetite is fastidious, and I like good eating and drinking. I have
the most expensive suppers sometimes. I am engaged to be married to a young fellow who works
on a daily newspaper and who is busy at night. We shall be married some day, I suppose. He
does, not suspect me to be 'fast,' and you don't suppose I am going to take the trouble to
undeceive him. This is not a frequent practice of mine; I only come out when I want money,
and I always have an appointment before I come out. I always dress well of course, and can
pick up a gentleman anywhere when I like. Yes, I know I have good feet, and I know how to use
them. I have hooked many a fifty dollars by showing a couple of inches of my ankle. Of course,
I hate being in the store, but my fellow is rather jealous, and I keep going there as a blind.
Will I reform when I am married? Perhaps so--if he gives me heaps of money. I am no worse than
thousands of girls, single and married, who put on airs of purity and church-going. I know
plenty of ladies who pay five hundred dollars at the store for silks and finery, which they
persuade their husbands they bought for one-fourth of the price. And, for my part, I am going
to eat well, dress well, and enjoy myself as long as ever I can get the money, by hook or by
crook."

Readers of the works of Le Sage will recall the polite devil which the ingenious novelist releases
from his captivity in a vial, for the purpose of disclosing to the world the true inwardness
of society in Spain. Something of the role of this communicative imp we purpose to enact in
this chapter, the subject matter of which, we may safely venture to assert, is new to at least
nine-tenths of the residents of this great city. And if people, to the manner born, are unacquainted
with the form and manifestations of this particular phase of crime, how much more ignorant
must be those casual visitors, who only, at long intervals, are called by business, or impelled
by anticipations of pleasure, to visit the Empire City?

The mode of life of the merchant or business man does not bring him in contact with crime or
the haunts of criminals. He may pass down Sixth avenue, or Third avenue and the Bowery, on
the Elevated railroad; or through Greene, Wooster, and Bleecker streets, the Bowery, Fourth
avenue, Forsythe, Canal, Thirty-fourth, Houston, Twenty-third and Chatham streets, and other
thoroughfares, in a street car, knowing nothing about the inmates of the houses lining either
side of those same streets, or their manner of life, or anything about those inhabiting the
basement beneath. It is only when the startling head-lines in his favorite morning paper call
his attention to some frightful crime committed, that he learns either of its character, or
location, or the causes which produced it. To this lack of knowledge on the part of the respectable
portion of the community of the location of questionable places and the haunts of felons, is
to be attributed many of the robberies which, from time to time, are chronicled in the newspapers.
In the case of "the stranger within our gates" the danger of straying into the sloughs of vice
and consequent victimization, is of course greatly increased. And just here it is worthy of
remark that there appears to be some mysterious fatality by which strangers, greenhorns and
"innocents," generally, contrive to wander by unerring though devious ways, straight into the
talons of vigilant night-hawks.

Concert saloons and pretty waiter girls are treacherous things to meddle with. Neither can
be depended upon and generally both have unsavory reputations. The only thing pretty about
the girls is a pretty bad record.

During the war for the Union, when enlistments for the army were lively, and bounty jumpers
flourished, and money was nearly as plentiful as salt, concert saloon proprietors made enormous
fortunes. They were then a new sensation in this country; indeed, it may be said the war brought
them into being. Broadway, from Fourteenth street to the Battery was literally lined on both
sides with them, and when at night the lamps in front of these places were lighted, it rendered
the street almost as bright as day. Then, as now, they were principally confined to the basements
or cellars of buildings, but while some of them were known to be the rendezvous of thieves
and other criminals, there were a few which enjoyed a better reputation, and were frequented
by people of comparative respectability.

The pretty waiter girl, of course, was the principal magnet used to draw customers to these
saloons. She was and is to-day, in fact, the only attraction. Music of a coarse description
is used to attract the passer-by, who, glancing at the place from whence it proceeds, sees
flaring lights, gaudy and brilliant signs--generally the figure of some female in tights--and
is allured in by the unusual appearance, and the picture his imagination forms of a jolly time
to be had within. Still, the girl is the feature. It is a safe conclusion, that no waiter girl
in a concert saloon is virtuous, nor was there ever a really good girl engaged in any such
saloon. They are there to be bought by any one fancying them, and therein lies the charm--if
charm it can be called--of these places. A stranger has nothing to do but walk down the steps,
enter the saloon, seat himself at a table, and he will immediately be besieged by a crowd of
girls--if that be what he is seeking. As the stranger knows not the locality of other places
of entertainment, he accommodates himself to circumstances and takes what he sees before him.
Hence concert saloons thrive--but chiefly upon out-of-town people--countrymen, in fact.

There are various causes which conspire to make pretty waiter girls. They belong to three classes:
First, the young girl who, but recently fallen into sin, is placed there by "her friend," which
appellation more frequently than otherwise stands for "her seducer"; second, the young female
who naturally seeks a position as waitress, because it pays her best, the proprietors of some
saloons paying a weekly salary, in others a percentage upon the drinks sold; and third, an
older kind of female who, having run the gauntlet of nearly all forms of feminine degradation,
and losing most of the charms belonging to her sex, sees a chance, upon the percentages allowed
by the "boss," and the overcharge squeezed from frequenters, of making a living, with a prospect
of once in a while finding a man so drunk as not to have any choice in a companion for the
night. To this sort of individual, all females are beautiful and the ancient and faded siren
has as good a chance for patronage as her younger and more favored rival. Hence the concert
saloon has its advantages for all kinds of women, as well as its uses for all kinds of men.
The price of drinks in these places varies according to the tact of the pretty waiter girl,
the sobriety of the customer, or the "rules of the house." In all cases, however, drinks are
higher than at ordinary bars, for the musicians have to be paid, the girls to receive a percentage,
as well as the proprietor to reap his harvest. Besides, the smiles of lovely women must be
reckoned at something. In the Chatham street and Bowery dives, the worst and cheapest of liquors
and beers are dispensed to customers. In many of these concert saloons "private rooms" have
been arranged, where anyone so disposed may choose his female companion and retire to quaff
a bottle of wine (?) at five dollars a bottle--a customer who indulges in such a luxury as
wine being too important and consequential to associate with the common visitors. Money here
as elsewhere has its worshipers.

With this preface we shall now introduce the reader to the inside of one of these concert saloons,
and show him the pretty waiter girl as his fancy pictures her, and as she really is: Chancing
to walk along the street, the ears are assailed by the clash of music emanating from some basement,
down perhaps a half a dozen steps. A number of red globes, surrounding as many gas jets, serve
to show the entrance, on either side of which are full length paintings of women in short skirts.
The door is of green leather or oil-cloth. Pushing this open, we enter and seat ourselves at
one of the many round tables with which the place is plentifully supplied. In a second--not
longer--several girls are beside us, and some sit down at our table. One--perhaps two at once--will
immediately ask if we are not going to treat, and, in response, drinks are ordered. While one
of the girls proceeds to supply the order, and before the drinks are brought, we glance around
the saloon. On one side is the bar, at which several persons are standing, drinking with some
of the sweet-voiced houris. The barkeeper and proprietor, both in their shirt sleeves, are
behind it. On one side of the bar is a slightly-raised platform, upon which is a piano-player,
a violinist and a shrill fifer. This is the music that charms and attracts. Around the room
are men of all kinds, sailors, laboring men, seedy individuals, lovers, thieves, a few poor
gamblers, fellows in hard luck and waiting for "something to turn up." Sprinkled over the place,
talking, laughing, joking and striving to induce them to buy drinks, are a number of the waiter
girls. The floor is plentifully and generously covered with plain sawdust, which answers the
double purpose of effectually hiding the large cracks, and of absorbing the expectorations
and spilled beer. The time is yet early and business is not very brisk, so we chat with the
prettiest and youngest of the girls for a second only, when we are again importuned to drink
by another of the fair ones, even before the first round is brought, for it must be understood
that only the girl ordering the drinks gets any percentage. The drinks brought, the price is
asked and the amount paid, as follows: Two beers, two lemonades with a stick in it for two
girls, and two brandies for two others; total, one dollar and forty cents. Now the girls don't
drink brandy, they have a little colored water, but they charge for brandy all the same, and
pay the proprietor in pasteboard tickets, which are supplied by him to the girls in packages
of five dollars worth and upwards. For that which she charged one dollar and forty cents she
pays in checks forty cents, thus making a clear one dollar--five cents each for two beers,
ten cents each for lemonades, and five cents each for the colored water. The customer pays
ten cents for each glass of beer, twenty cents each for lemonade and forty cents each for brandy.
When the customer fails to call for drinks fast enough to suit the girls, they will leave for
some other table where they may be more liberally patronized. It is getting later, and as we
are about to leave, an unsteady and heavy foot is heard descending the steps outside, the doors
are pushed violently open and a big, burly man reels into the place. He is not entirely intoxicated,
but just enough so not to care for anything or anybody, and as he shuffles independently along
he is approached by a couple of girls, who, taking an arm each, affectionately guide him to
a chair. Being seated, he smiles benignly upon his fair captors and asks them to drink. He
is evidently, from his dress, a successful butcher or saloon-keeper and has plenty of money
about him. The drinks brought, he takes a roll of money from his pocket, and, thinking it is
a five-dollar bill, gives a fifty-dollar bill to the girl. She immediately leaves and in a
few seconds returns, giving him change for a five, saying quite pleasantly, "Here's your change,"
and, as he is about to place it in his pocket, asks him for "a quarter for luck." Several girls
now gather around the man, and by smiles, caresses, and other affectionate and flattering demonstrations,
finally persuade him into one of the private rooms, when he is lost to our sight, but we distinctly
hear the order, "bottle of wine."

Soon another man enters very drunk, and, seating himself, is soon similarly surrounded. In
about a minute one of the girls leaves and whispers to the proprietor, who, emerging from behind
his rampart, catches the unlucky visitor by the collar, and with the aid of a club compels
him to ascend the steps again to the street. The man not having any money was an unwelcome
guest, and they had no use for him.

Several others now enter, many of whom are personally known to the girls, and mutual glances
of recognition pass between them. These pass on down to the further and privileged part of
the place and are lost to view. The den is now pretty full and business is brisk. The bartender
and proprietor are hurriedly passing out ordered drinks. The girls are flying around, executing
orders and pocketing change. The piano-player bangs and thumps his hideously-wiry instrument.
Glasses are clinking, chairs and tables moving, and altogether there is a discordant tumult
well calculated to bewilder the coolest kind of a head.

Suddenly there is a scream--a piercing scream. Everybody starts and looks towards the spot
from whence it proceeded. One of the girls quickly says, "Oh, it's nothing, Jimmy is only licking
Hattie." The lover has only beaten the poor creature who is supporting him, and, strange as
it may appear, she will think all the more of him for this brutality. It is a pretty generally
known fact, so far as females of this class are concerned, that if a man occasionally severely
beats his mistress, she regards it as a proof that he entertains for her an ardent affection.
It is now getting late, and several of the girls are leaving for home with their new-made male
friends, and indications point towards the place being closed for the night. The butcher comes
forth from his "private room," followed by a number of the girls who have been his companions,
and is led to the door and assisted out. We leave also, and as we ascend the steps to the street
we discover our butcher in the hands of a policeman who is dragging him off to the station,
where we shall leave him for the night.

Now, most of these girls live in what are called furnished rooms, and it is to those that they
take their male friends when they leave the saloon, stopping on the way, of course, for "supper."
In some cases the girls are panel thieves--but that is rare. In nearly all cases they have
lovers and generally provide home comforts for their masters, but in all cases they are for
hire. The nature of the business they follow demands their attention at night, so that they
sleep nearly all the day. The great majority of them are veritable thieves. To drug a man who
carries money, or ply him with liquor until he is unconscious and then rob him of all he has,
is a very common proceeding, particularly when afterwards he is put out on the street and left,
when the chances are more than a hundred to one that he neither recollects the place where
he was nor the girl who stole his money or his valuables. The proprietor, if he can, divides
the stolen amount with the girl--with the lover always. Many instances are known of half-intoxicated
men leaving valuables with the bar-tender of some of these places, for supposed security, but
when requested to be returned were met with a denial that the valuables were ever intrusted
to him. With an air of insulted innocence the bartender declares that he never saw the articles
or the man before.

We shall now return to our butcher acquaintance, and follow the incident to its ending. So
we proceed to the Tombs the next morning, and there in the pen with the other prisoners we
find our man. Upon his arraignment in court he tells the following story, which is the truth
verbatim:

"I was wandering through Chatham street, when my attention became attracted by a bevy of gaudily-dressed
girls, who asked me to while away my spare hours in a concert saloon. Smitten with the charms
of the tempters I was loth to part with them, and after some preliminary conversation they
enticed me to their lair. I had at this time about five hundred dollars in my possession, and
after some hours carousal, they robbed and sent me away penniless. This is how it was done:
I entered the saloon and was taken to a private room, when I called for some wine, of which
we all partook. I may say here that the wine, so called, was really nothing but cider. The
girls sat on the sofa in this room with me. We continued to drink and I was the recipient of
more caresses than I ever was before in my life. After the lapse of perhaps three hours, some
of the girls left me, and when I called for more wine, I found that my money was gone. I was
not so drunk at this time that I could not understand that I had been robbed. I asked for the
girls that had left, and was told that they had gone home. I paid ninety dollars for wine in
this room, but they gave me sometimes cider and whisky mixed, and then when I became really
unconsciously intoxicated they put me out, after having taken all my money from my clothes.

"I had made an arrangement to go home with two of the girls, but I suppose when they saw that
some of their number had taken all my money, they left me. There was a sofa in this room and
one of the girls intimated to me that I had assaulted her and wanted some money. Another said
she could not afford to spend her time there unless she was paid. Another induced me to give
her money to buy a hat, and then when I lost consciousness they robbed me of all I had, my
watch and chain, scarf-pin, ring and the remainder of my money. Many times during the hours
I was there, drinks and wine were brought in that I did not order, but the girls would insist
that I had ordered it. Once in a while the 'madame' of the place would call in the room, and
coming up to me would embrace me and tell me I was a jolly fellow. I could not now recognize
any of the girls and do not know which saloon I went into. I live in this city."

As a matter of custom, detectives were placed upon the case after the discharge of the prisoner,
but that was the last ever heard of the matter, as he was unable to identify any of the parties
arrested.

The foregoing is only a sample of hundreds of similar cases constantly taking place, in some
of which the sufferer, if he is a stranger, and has no friends, is oftentimes sent to the Island
for ten days for being drunk, while the pretty waiter girl who has drugged, robbed and finally
discarded him is never even arrested. There are many other cases, however, in which the pretty
waiter girl does not fare so well, and after conviction has to serve out her time, thereby
losing her lover and her liberty.

What has been written applies more especially to the concert-saloon waiter girl, and does not
in the least pertain to that other class of girls who are found in what are called dance houses,
of which latter there are not a few in this city. There are some very peculiar kinds of females
to be found in dance houses and not to be met with outside the abodes of Terpsichore. The term,
dance house, itself, is susceptible of various interpretations. It may mean anything from Harry
Hill's, at Crosby and Houston streets, to an Italian gathering in Mott or Mulberry street.
But the performances carried on are precisely alike in all. In the sporting dance house, a
series of boxing matches, small theatrical sketches may be acted, a song or two interspersed,
and some piano playing, winding up afterwards with a dance, in which all so inclined may indulge,
taking either the regular girls employed in the house as partners, or others who have strayed
in from the streets.

In the regular dance houses, such as the Haymarket on Sixth avenue, "ladies" are admitted free,
but "gentlemen" are charged twenty-five cents admittance, and here regular dancing takes place,
such as quadrilles, waltzes, etc. In the French Madame's on Thirty-first street, which is ostensibly
a restaurant, the girls come in from the street, and while sipping black coffee, are ready
to accept an engagement to dance the cancan, which is performed up-stairs in rooms paid for
by those desiring to see the questionable performance. It is not infrequently danced by the
females in an entirely nude state, with various other concomitants not to be mentioned here,
but of such a nature as to horrify any but the most blasé roué. There is also the well-known
Billy McGlory's, in Hester street, near the Bowery, where general dancing is indulged in until
an early hour of the morning, when a universal cancan takes place upon the public floor, and
where each female boldly exposes just enough of her person to excite desire in the beholder.
These girls dance in ordinary street costumes, and in many cases are paid by the proprietor
for their services. It is a wild debauch, and needs but to be seen once, to be ever afterward
remembered with disgust and loathing.

There are other places, not particularly dance houses nor yet concert saloons, such as the
Empire, Star and Garter, Gould's, etc., which are used as general places of resort by all classes
of males and Magdalenes. Here may be found the professional prize fighter, men about town,
gamblers, merchants, clerks, politicians, bankers, officials of all kinds, and all classes
of females, mistresses, nymphs du pave, inmates of assignation houses, all intent on fun and
dissipation, and a desire to not only see the elephant, but pull it by the tail. Some of the
girls-haunting these places have been pretty waiter girls, but find it more profitable to ply
their trade as Cyprians. The bars are the chief sources of profit in these as in kindred establishments.
Hence females are encouraged to visit them, for when they congregate in force men will follow,
and men who enter these places do so for the purpose of finding congenial temporary mates and
spending money for drinks.

Of the females who make these places their resort for the best part of the night, and participate
in the recklessness and debauchery that has its ending only in an early death and the "Potter's
Field," nothing remains to be said, except that they are the same as thousands leading similar
lives in other cities of the world. The victims first of man's perfidy, through a too-confiding
reliance on his promises, they become so afterwards as a matter of business and livelihood.
Each has her lover, of course--what woman of the town has not?--and if she should happen to
make a little money in the way of her questionable business, she divides it with him, for generally
he has his eyes upon her during the entire course of the evening. Very few of them will leave
any of these places with strange men without first notifying their lovers of where they are
going and how long they will be away. In return for these services the lover sees to her, helps
her to customers, prevents her being imposed upon by others of her sex when in the dance houses
or concert saloons, and occasionally acts as her cavalier servante to various places for pleasure.
There are many girls to be seen in these dance houses who are not over fifteen years of age--and
they have lovers, too. In Billy McGlory's, one night, a desperate fight took place there over
two rival claimants for the regard of a girl not yet entered on her teens.

It is considered one of the sights of the great city to visit these up-town resorts. Here all
the young swells who desire to show country cousins the city, commercial travelers, chaperoned
by city salesmen of various business houses, chorus girls from the theaters, and a mixed company
generally, are to be found sitting around the various tables, drinking. The atmosphere is foggy
with cigar smoke. The saloon is all ablaze with light. On the stage is some fourth-rate performer
rendering a popular song. There is a long lunch counter, upon which is placed the materials
for manufacturing all kinds of sandwiches. There is the flower girl, with her tray of fresh
pansies and roses, casting a reflected bloom upon her otherwise pale face. There are the negro
waiters ready to pounce upon the first glass that is half-emptied of its contents, so that
its owner seeing no glass before him feels it incumbent to order again. There are crowds of
females--girls and women in street costumes--some smoking cigarettes sitting poised on men's
knees; others at the tables quaffing stimulants like their male companions. There are voices
loud, mingled with the constant succession of orders for drinks shouted out unpleasantly by
the waiters. There is the sound of clinking and jingling of glasses, the constant rapping on
tables, boisterous laughter, an occasional oath, and once in a while an hysterical scream,
as some unfortunate woman succumbs to the influence of rum. Above all this is heard at intervals,
the sound of music, as it squeezes itself through the thick and sticky air. Men and women are
continuously going and coming, and all this drags on until daylight appears, and the persons
in the place, from sheer fatigue and exhaustion, seek some place to sleep until the next night,
when the females go through the same scenes, with a new lot of the same kind of men. That is
the up-town place as it is to-day. The stories one hears are the same as those told two thousand
years ago. Woman's fall, man's perfidy, woman's frailty, man's inhumanity form the themes,
with drunkeness, depravity and debauchery thrown in parenthetically.

Most of the proprietors of these up-town resorts are very prosperous and would not countenance
theft of any kind, nor permit any woman guilty of it to come into their saloons if they knew
them to be thieves. Persons and property are comparatively as safe here as they can reasonably
be expected to be; but there are lots of persons who visit these places who are known to be
professional thieves and pickpockets, and while apparently in the place for amusement, are
really watching for some unfortunate who, under the influence of drink, attempts to find his
way home alone. Such an individual is followed, and by one pretext or another is robbed. Danger
lurks in all these places for the man who drinks. The temperate man is safe almost anywhere,
but the temperate man is not in the habit of visiting such places as have been described, except--once
in a while.

CHAPTER VI.

SHOP-LIFTERS.

Many persons contend that certain kinds of criminals inherit their law-breaking propensities.
There are others, less charitably disposed, perhaps, who strenuously insist that all criminals,
without exception, are simply born with a natural desire to be bad, and would not be otherwise
if they could; that they are prone and susceptible to the worst influences because they incline
that way. There are others, again, who as strongly and vigorously urge that felons, of whatever
grade, class or character, are made so by circumstances, in which poverty, idleness, inability
to obtain work, temptation, and a thousand other things, conspire to be either the direct or
indirect causes of the individual falling from the straight path and entering the crooked path
of crime. But, from whatever motive, by whatever temptation, whether forced or led, certain
it is that both male and female criminals have some peculiar ideas of crime, entertained, perhaps,
for reasons only known to themselves. The chances of escape from detection are, no doubt, seriously
weighed and carefully considered by the persons bent upon committing felony as a mode of livelihood,
and, undoubtedly, some special line is selected, as the particular branch of the profession
to be followed, in accordance with the physical and mental fitness of the man or woman to succeed
in it.

In other words, they gradually become "specialists," like other professional persons in the
respectable walks of life. It may be safely said, however, that a thief in one thing is a thief
in all things. He would be callow, indeed, who would predicate that a professional burglar
would hesitate to commit highway robbery because his weapon was a jimmy, or that a panel thief
would turn up his nose at picking an inviting pocket. It is all in the line of business, and
neither professional would lose caste. No doubt both men and women select the peculiar line
of crime for which they imagine they are physically and mentally best adapted, and which, in
each particular case, seems to offer the most facilities and immunities. For these considerations,
shop-lifting has its obvious attractions and temptations for women.

For years past, the newspapers of our large cities almost daily have chronicled the arrests
of men and women, in stores, who have been caught in the act of appropriating articles that
have been temptingly displayed on the counters. Yet it is very doubtful if there has yet appeared
one published account of the exact manner in which such goods have been stolen, or an explanation
given of the finesse by which, in spite of the Argus eyes of the watchers, clerks, visitors
and customers, the thief generally contrives to escape detection. It goes without saying that
there are adroit and dexterous shop-lifters of both sexes, while the manner of conducting their
operations is as diverse as can well be conceived.

The annual thefts of goods from the retail stores of this city alone aggregate an almost fabulous
sum. It is very difficult to reach a reliable approximation of the total amount thus stolen,
because store-keepers are naturally averse to having their losses from this source known. As
a prominent Sixth-avenue gentleman once remarked, "If I should tell how much I annually lost
through thieves, or suffered by shop-lifters, I would have the entire band occasionally paying
me visits, thinking I had not provided myself with the usual safe-guards against them." Nevertheless,
it can be stated as an absolute fact that not less than half a million dollars' worth of goods
yearly disappear from the stores through shop-lifters, embracing all kinds of articles, from
diamonds to penny fans.

The professional diamond and jewelry thief, however, is not to be confounded with the shop-lifter,
for the former employs quite a different modus operandi in capturing his illicit goods. The
diamond thief has been known to display the most fertile ingenuity in devising schemes to rob
the unwary though generally alert jeweler. An instance is recorded of a thief entering a jewelry
store, leaving his "pal" outside to look in through the window, asking to see some diamond
rings. While pretending to examine them with severe criticism, and keeping the salesman engaged,
he cleverly attached one end of the string, held by his confederate outside, to several of
the most valuable, and quietly dropped them at his feet. His "pal" then quietly pulled them
along the floor, out through the door, into the street and decamped. A search of the thief
who remained behind disclosed nothing and, as proof was thus wanting, he had to be discharged.

The female shop-lifter is generally a woman well known to the police, as her picture will,
in nearly every case, be found in the Rogues' Gallery at Police Headquarters. Usually, when
she discovers that her actions are watched and her movements shadowed, she quietly folds her
tent and proceeds to some other city where she is comparatively a stranger, and where, unsuspected,
she can ply her nefarious occupation with less risk of detection and capture. She is often
either the wife of a gambler, professional burglar, forger or other criminal; or she may be
the wife of some reputable mechanic whose income is insufficient to supply her with the furbelows
her vanity craves; or, again, she is one of those women who, having a natural aversion to labor,
seek to support themselves by petty thefts.

The fact is notorious, and easily demonstrated by the records of the police courts, that "a
shop-lifter once, a shop-lifter always." It is a lamentable psychological idiosyncrasy that,
despite the most earnest and apparently sincere resolutions to lead an honest life, the female
shop-lifter, intent on making a legitimate purchase, is incapable of withstanding the temptation
offered by a display of fancy articles. She will usually attempt to purloin some trinket or
other and be caught again. Perhaps the leniency with which crimes of this character have been
treated by the authorities has tended to increase the number of persons engaged in committing
them. For, heartless as man is at times, he detests the idea of prosecuting a woman for the
commission of a petty theft, when the end, for her, means the penitentiary. In very many, perhaps
the majority of, cases he will be satisfied if his goods are recovered, and permit the thief
to go unpunished. This is very frequently the case with that class of shop-lifters called,
by courtesy, the "kleptomaniac,"--the wealthy lady who steals what she could easily have purchased.
This is a phase of female character only accounted for upon the Christian hypothesis that her
thieving propensities are a disease, while they are really a manifestation of the same base
desires which actuate less fortunate women who expiate their misdemeanor in the penitentiary.

Most of the rich kleptomaniacs are well known to the various store-keepers. A woman of this
kind is watched from the moment she enters an establishment until she leaves it. Usually, a
trusty employee or detective follows her from counter to counter, unobserved, noting all the
articles purloined. When the fair and aristocratic thief enters her carriage and is driven
to her palatial residence a bill of the goods so "lifted," addressed to the husband, follows
her and, in nearly every case, is paid upon presentation and without questioning. Thus the
transaction ends, until another visit from the lady occasions another bill. If the "blue-blooded"
thief enters a store, however, where she is not known, and to the proprietor of which her "disease"
is unsuspected, she often escapes with her "swag," like the unfortunate female who adopts stealing
as a means of subsistence. There should be no distinction made between the wealthy and aristocratic
female thief and her less fortunate sister, for the crime is the same in both cases; the only
difference being that the latter cannot claim the possession of riches in extenuation of her guilt.

The frequency with which thefts by shop-lifters occur, and the amount of valuable goods stolen,
has rendered store-keepers more suspicious and cautious, probably, than any other class of
men in the world. Nearly all the large stores on Sixth avenue, Twenty-third street, Broadway,
Fourteenth street, and others, where ladies do most of their shopping, and which are perfectly
jammed with people nearly all day long, employ either male or female detectives (and in some
instances both are used), who are constantly on the alert for the detection of female shop-lifters.
Such stores as McCreery's, Lord & Taylor's, O'Neill's, Macy's, Simpson, Crawford & Simpson's,
Hearn's, Altman's, Koch's, Kaughran's, Ehrich's, Denning's, Stern's and Le Boutillier's are
examples. Some stores have had seats erected near the ceiling, where, secreted among shawls
and other pendant goods, the detectives are securely hidden from the sight of all persons,
and can thus watch the actions of every woman making a purchase. Other detectives are posted
at the different entrances; while still others, having the appearance of buyers, are constantly
walking and circulating through the various departments, on the lookout for thieves. During
the holidays all these precautions are doubled, and some officers are even posted on the sidewalk,
in front of the windows.

Before Christmas these stores carry enormous stocks of every kind of fancy goods, and their
lavish display, added to their crowded condition at all times, renders theft easier than usual.
So that, try as they may, the proprietors cannot prevent a certain amount of thieving, and
thousands of dollars worth of goods are annually lost to each store by the depredations of
shop-lifters. Even the small shops of Third and Eighth avenues, and Avenues A and B, are not
free from the visits of this class of thieves, and no stores are exempt from the imposition
of their tribute.

Before leaving home on a thieving excursion to the stores the female shop-lifter carefully
and systematically prepares her clothing, and sees that it is in proper form and ready for
business. This she does by first putting on a corset made especially for the purpose, with
broad, strong bands which pass over the shoulders. Between her legs she arranges a large bag
or receptacle made of some extremely strong cloth, which is suspended from the corset by a
stout band running around the waist. Her dress or frock covers this, and in front of the dress
is an opening or slit, nicely arranged in the folds so as not to be noticed, which leads into
the suspended bag. Over this, in winter, is worn a sealskin sacque, cloth cloak, fur circular,
or other garment, according to the means of the wearer. In summer she wears a light shawl,
which completely hides the slit in the dress from view. She now takes her muff, which, to the
uninitiated eye, has nothing to distinguish it, outwardly, from thousands of other muffs, but
which is a master-piece of ingenious contrivance. It is covered with any kind of fur, just
as honest muffs are, with the significant exception that, instead of being padded with cotton,
the fur rests upon a framework of wire. Between the fur covering and the wire supporting frame,
the space usually filled with cotton is left vacant, thus providing accommodation for quite
a stock of valuable lace, articles of jewelry, gloves, or anything small and valuable. In the
bottom of the muff there is a small slide, on the inside, worked by the hand of the wearer,
who, after introducing the stolen article into the muff, presses back this slide and drops
the plunder into the cavity between the frame and the fur.

With one of these muffs, shop-lifting is so easy as to be successfully practiced by novices,
as not one store-walker in a thousand would suspect that his counters could be worked through
a muff worn as these are when in action. Thus equipped, the expert female shop-lifter sallies
out. Generally, she dresses rather expensively. Sometimes she uses a carriage, but more frequently
walks, stopping to gaze in the store windows as she saunters along; and in no particular can
she be distinguished from others of her sex, except, perhaps, that in some cases she is rather
more richly and attractively clothed. Upon selecting a store that suits her, she walks boldly
in, going at once, and without noticeable hesitation, to the lace or other department, before
the counter of which she seats herself, adroitly arranging her dress and the slit. Asking the
saleswoman to be shown some kinds of lace, she examines it critically, and, laying it down
upon the counter, asks to see another kind, or some feathers, or something else, and so contrives
to have several articles just before her, one covering the other, if possible. Having accumulated
a number of articles upon the counter in an eligible position, she points to some things high
up on a shelf behind the counter, thus getting the saleswoman's back turned towards her for
an instant, when, with soft dexterity, she conveys anything that happens to be handily in the
way through the slit in her dress into the bag between her legs. The goods examined and priced,
"not suiting" her, and other customers coming up, she takes the opportunity of moving to another
counter, where the same tactics are repeated, and so on, till she is satisfied with her haul
or exhausted her stowage capacity.

The muff is worked in this way: The operator rests her hand, with the muff on it, on the goods
which she proposes to sample, and a moment of diverted attention on the part of the salesman
or saleswoman is ample for her to transfer to her ingenious warehouse such samples as she can
conveniently and quickly pick up with one hand. The movement of concealing the stolen articles
is instantaneously executed, and, however well the muff may be stuffed, it cannot be bulged
out to attract attention. It is surprising to know the vast quantities of material these bags
and muffs will contain. At police headquarters, once, in examining the contents of one of these
bags, it was found to actually hold a piece of satin, several cards of lace, a camel's-hair
shawl, two large china ornaments, a number of spools of silk, several elegant fans, expensive
ostrich plumes, and numberless smaller articles, feathers, artificial flowers and some minor
trinkets. Shop-lifters are the terror of the shop-keepers, for the thefts embrace everything
of convenient character lying about. With one dexterous sweep they will frequently put out
of sight a dozen small articles.

All the articles stolen are carried home, the trade-marks upon them destroyed, and then subsequently
sold to some "fence" for about one-third their value, to finally be resold again over the counter
of some other store in another city. It is seldom the female shop-lifter uses a male confederate,
but it frequently happens that they travel in couples, one engaging the attention of the seller
while the other fills her bag or muff, taking turn about until both have stolen sufficient
for the day. Sometimes several trips are made to the same store, but generally one is enough.

It often happens that store-keepers make mistakes and wrongfully accuse respectable ladies
of shop-lifting, and in such cases the over-zealous vender suffers greatly, both in loss of
custom and, oftentimes, in heavy damages in a court of law. All stores are provided with what
are called examination rooms. When a person is suspected of being a thief, some of the attaches
of the store, or a detective, as the case may be, taps the person lightly upon the shoulder,
and politely invites them into this examination room. Here their bundles and packages are searched
and, if warranted, their clothing is personally inspected by some female attendant. Here is
where some very curious scenes are enacted. The professional thief will resort to tears, expostulations,
explanations, excuses of all kinds, finally begging to be allowed to depart. The discovery
of the bag or the muff, however, invariably settles the case and the offender is marched off
to jail.

In the case of a mistake, as stated, the store-keeper generally makes the explanations, excuses,
and so forth, supplementing them afterwards by payment in a suit for damages.

Men shop-lifters--or, more properly, store thieves--pursue an entirely different method, and
confine their operations to a far different kind of store. They go into the thieving business
to make it pay, and are not tempted by the display of merely pretty things. They prefer to
operate in the wholesale stores, and how ingeniously and systematically they accomplish their
object, under the very eyes of people, borders on the marvelous.

It has often been said that the same amount of ingenuity, thought, care and planning, which
is bestowed by criminals upon the perpetration of felony, if directed properly upon some legitimate
business would render them successful and rich. Undoubtedly, this is true. What inventive faculties
they must have to devise such a convenient contrivance as the shop-lifter's muff, the various
burglar's implements, the safe-robber's tools, their delicate files, saws, etc., made from
the best of steel, and thousands of other things used in various ways, including the store
thief's satchel, must be manifest to the most ordinary comprehension.

As this latter article is used by the class of thief about to be spoken of, a short description
of it will not be amiss. To all outward appearance it is a very unpretentious traveling-bag.
It looks honest, and does not differ, apparently, from any other bag of its kind. A careful
scrutiny hardly discloses any variation from the ordinary valise; but, nevertheless, it has
a false side, so ingeniously arranged as to open and close noiselessly, being caught with a
well-oiled spring or fastening. The hinges of this false side are made on the iron which, in
ordinary satchels, contains the lock, and it opens upwards, when placed in the usual manner
upon a table, instead of downwards--just the reverse of the honest one. It is the simplest
thing in the world, then, for an expert, carrying a valise of this description by the handle,
to place it over a piece of valuable cloth, open the slide, which works with a spring; at the
precise moment slip the goods in, and, taking his valise by the handle, walk off undiscovered.
To any one who may be watching, the action of the thief is the most natural one in the world,
and if the goods themselves are not missed no one would ever suspect they were in the valise
carried by the gentleman who merely let it rest for a second on the table. But it is captured
all the same, although you cannot see it. It has changed from one place to the other under
the magical "presto" of the thief.

The store thief saunters down-town to the dry goods district, watches the wholesale houses,
notes the interior of the stores, and carefully makes his selection of some one suitable to
his purpose. The next morning, bright and early, he attires himself like a country store-keeper,
and, taking his satchel in his hand, he makes haste to reach the store he intends to work,
appearing to the quietly-observant porter like an out-of-town buyer, just come off some early
incoming train. Asking the porter or clerk, who, probably, about this time, is sweeping out,
in expectation of the arrival of some of the salesmen or proprietors, if Mr. Smith, a salesman,
is in, he is informed that none of the clerks or salesmen are down yet. Remarking in answer
that he will wait a moment or two, as he has just arrived from Schenectady, he deftly places
his gripsack upon the counter, over some valuable piece of goods, and saunters around the store,
coming back to where his valise is, when, embracing a favorable opportunity, he slips the one,
two or three pieces of cloth through the false portion of the valise, and, taking it by the
handle in the usual careless manner, "guesses he will go to his hotel and have a wash and return
later," and leaves the store not only undetected but entirely unsuspected. Very probably the
theft remains undiscovered until the next taking of stock, when it is impossible to tell how
the goods were lost, and in many cases some attache of the store is discharged, never knowing
for what sin of omission or commission he was suspected. The success of this mode of theft
is best shown by the infrequency with which such cases are ever brought to light or its perpetrator
ever caught and arrested.

In the issue of the New York World, bearing date Saturday, May 11, 1867, appeared a long article
criticising, exposing, and severely condemning the methods of the city's detective police.
"A detective," said the writer, "is presumed to be alike active, capable and honest, and were
he such, he would be a public benefactor; but as he is too often either ignorant, indolent,
or positively dishonest, he becomes a public pest. That detectives are in league with thieves;
that they associate with them publicly and privately on the most intimate terms; that they
occasionally 'put up' jobs with them by which the people are alike fleeced and astonished;
that although the perpetrators of great robberies are generally known to them, the said perpetrators
almost invariably escape punishment; that far more attention is paid to the sharing of the
plunder, or the obtaining of a large percentage on the amount of money recovered, than to the
furtherance of the ends of justice--all these statements are undeniably true."

Coming to specific charges, the writer said further on: "A handsome female, a Broadway shop-lifter,
recently testified that although she had been desirous of reforming her life for a year past,
she had been totally prevented from so doing by the extortions of certain members of the detective
force, who threatened to reveal her former history unless she 'came down handsomely,' and in
order to 'come down,' as they styled it, she was obliged to resort to her old disgraceful business."

The foregoing reference to a concurrent incident was presented to the reader as coldly and
curtly as a historic hailstone, striking him but to glance off, and not like a real, breathing
story, as it was, appealing strongly to his heart. The following facts, which have been kept
inviolate in this office for nearly twenty years, and only brought to light here because those
most concerned have passed away, will show what a stirring and pathetic narrative lay beneath
the newspaper chronicler's dry words.

Early in the spring of the year above named, an elderly gentleman of undoubted respectability
was shown into our private office. He was exceedingly nervous and flurried, and his wan, colorless
face looked like an effaced page. In a tortuous, round-about way, he intimated that his married
daughter was in great trouble, in consequence of the operation of a great weakness or defect
in character which was apparently hereditary. Her mother, his wife, he said, an excellent,
kind-hearted, conscientious, truthful woman, had occasionally manifested the kleptomania impulse
and had been detected. Happily the crime had been committed under circumstances which obviated
exposure; it had been charitably overlooked upon his paying the bill for the purloined goods.
Up to the date of her marriage, he had not observed or otherwise become cognizant of the development
of the unfortunate trait in his only daughter. Her husband was a noble-minded man who devotedly
loved her, and whom she idolized. Two years after her marriage she was caught shop-lifting
in an establishment where she was known. By a merciful stroke of fortune, the information and
the bill were sent to the father instead of the husband. Great moral and religious influence
had been brought to bear on her, and for several years there was cause to believe that she
had overcome her weakness. Unfortunately there had been another lapse into temptation. At present
she was suffering the tortures of the damned, but in what particular respect she had refused
to explain to him. "Father, find me an active, bold and energetic lawyer," she had said in
a paroxysm of tears, "and I will tell him what I cannot tell you."

The lady came to the office next morning, alone. She was pale as a lily, and she bore on her
forehead that shadow of melancholy which tells all the world that a woman is suffering and
unhappy. Her eyes were dark and soft as the darkest and softest violet, and she was dressed
with the utmost simplicity. She was in a most desponding mood. She said nothing was worth striving
for any more. There was no good under the sun for her. The splendor had gone from the grass--the
glory from the flower. Life, affection, family ties, love of good name--all these had ceased
to appeal to her.

In the sanctum sanctorum of a criminal lawyer's office the extremes of mental agony and poignant
suffering are sometimes revealed in all their phases; but it would be hard to imagine any one
suffering more than this fair, prepossessing woman, as she told how that sleepless and merciless
vulture of remorse, aided by the machinations of a licensed fiend in human form, dogged her
steps by day and made night horrible. The recital recalled the picture suggested by the lines:

"Lean abstinence, pole grief and haggard care, The dire attendants of forlorn despair."

With pale, quivering lips, she told the story of her humiliation. Primarily, some two years
after she became a happy wedded wife, she was impelled by an irresistible impulse to take some
article, almost valueless in itself, from the counter of a dry-goods store. She had been making
several purchases and had plenty of money in her pocket at the time. Afterwards, as opportunity
offered, the wretched larceny was repeated. Then came discovery, and her father's awakening
to the realization that his daughter was a thief. He summoned a minister and some worthy Christian
women--relatives of his--to talk to her and to urge her to seek strength from that source where
it is never withheld when earnestly and penitently invoked. She became a church-member, zealous
and earnest in the path of righteousness, partaking regularly of the Sacred Elements, visiting
the sick, relieving the distressed, and comforting the afflicted. To use Milton's language,

"Such a sacred and homefelt delight, Such sober certainty of waking bliss,"

she had never felt till then. Under these happy conditions five years passed, and then again
during the holiday season, temptation assailed her and was stronger than she. The person who
discovered her theft was a detective. He did not arrest and expose her. He did worse. He followed
her, obtained an interview and promised to keep her secret if she made it worth his while.
She willingly gave him a sum of money, and expected to hear no more of him or of her transgression.
But this newer edition of Fagin, who was as vile as the sewers, and who lied like a prospectus,
dogged her movements and systematically shadowed her wherever she went, again and again demanding
money and threatening her with newspaper publicity. She gave this rapacious vampire all the
money she could procure, even borrowing from her father. The pawnbrokers had in safe keeping
her diamonds, jewels, and some of her furs and laces. They had been pledged to furnish this
licensed black-mailer with money, and still he was insatiate and unappeased. Her husband's
suspicions meanwhile had been aroused. She spent so much money in occult ways that he had been
impelled to ask her father what he thought L---- was doing with so much money. Fettered thus,
with the torments both of Prometheus and Tantalus--the vulture gnawing at her vitals, and the
lost joys mocking her out of reach--she had at last in sheer desperation been driven to request
her father to procure her the assistance of a fearless lawyer.

It is not expedient to reveal the modus operandi used in emancipating this unfortunate lady
from her worse than Egyptian bondage. But the reader may rest assured that through the co-operation
of the police commissioners the shameless scoundrel was dismissed from the police force. Afterwards,
he served a term in a Western state prison, and up to this hour has been heard no more of in
New York.

Some years since respectable New York was startled and horrified by the recitals of criminal
life, which, in the fulfillment of a disagreeable public duty, the daily newspapers printed
in their news columns. The stirring appeal for the suppression of the evil then made by the
press to the moral sentiment of the community, was backed by the judiciary, by the money and
influence of wealthy and patriotic citizens, by the various charitable organizations, and by
the whole police force. Consequently, the foul Augean stable of vice and iniquity, for the
time being, at least, was in a great degree cleansed and purified. The leaders of that foul
army of vicious men and women were gradually rooted out and driven away from their noxious
haunts. Some found a congenial haven in the State prison, a few reformed, and many died in
want. The plague being temporarily stayed, and popular indignation a matter of record, New
York, as is its invariable custom, permitted its vigilance to go quietly to sleep, with a fair
prospect of it being rudely awakened to find history repeating itself. That this awakening
cannot safely be much longer deferred, it is partly the mission of the present chapter to show.
For it is useless to deny that we have in this city to-day, a condition of affairs very similar
to that which aroused the indignation and called for the severe repressional measures of our
immediate predecessors. Up-town, in many instances closely contiguous to the dwellings of people
of the highest respectability, there are dens as vile and infamous as ever disgraced any civilized
community. Hardly a street, however apparently exclusive and fashionable, can boast that it
is free from gambling, prostitution or panel houses.

Some time since, a journalist connected with a prominent morning paper, took great pains to
collect statistics concerning houses of prostitution in New York. The article in which the
results of his investigation were given, estimates that over $15,000,000 was invested in that
business, and that the yearly amount spent in those houses averaged over $10,000,000. In this
chapter, however, the reader's attention is more particularly invited to the class of assignation
and prostitution bagnios, known as panel houses.

The name "panel house" was originally derived from a false impression prevalent in the community,
that the rooms occupied by the inmates were fitted with sliding panels in the walls and partitions,
through and by means of which most of the robberies were committed. But, as will be seen hereafter,
the term is a misnomer, so far as the fact is concerned. But they had to have some distinctive
appellation, and "panel house" is a convenient generic term.

The proprietors of panel houses, in years gone by, were nearly all professional gamblers, a
fact which is more or less true to-day, where the real, genuine house of that character exists,
but there are hundreds of women who work the "panel game" upon their victims, who hire a simple
room in some furnished-room house. If detected the entire house has conferred upon it the name
of panel house, and is ever afterwards described and known as such in police and court records.

The real, Simon-pure panel thief is generally a young and pretty female, who has been initiated
into the mysteries of the game by either a gambler or a lover, and of whom she is the mistress.
It is the conception of a man's brain, needing the assistance of an attractive woman to carry
out the scheme, and was probably originally devised by some broken-down gambler to secure enough
funds wherewith to resume play. No woman would ever have dreamt of practicing such an intricate
and bold robbery, for she could never have carried it out. There are many women engaged in
these robberies who are neither young nor handsome, but they are adepts and make up in knowledge
and experience what they lack in charms; but the most successful are young and attractive.
They succeed better when they are winsome, for reasons which require no explanation.

Strange as it may appear, there are instances on record in which some of the professional females
engaged in this panel game have preserved intact their virtue, so far as men generally were
concerned, and have remained steadfast and true to their lovers, through all vicissitudes.
They have solicited and accompanied men to their rooms, yet still have so contrived and maneuvered,
as to have their male companion robbed without indulging in any of the other apparently necessary
concomitants to the success of the undertaking. But these women are rare--very rare indeed.
The fact of their occasional existence merely proves that the sole object of all women engaged
in the nefarious game of panel thieving is robbery--first, last and all the time.

From the well-known dislike of the victims of this game to making their names and losses known
by figuring prominently in a court of justice, panel-house thieves escape the punishment they
justly deserve and thrive more successfully, perhaps, than other professional robbers. Besides,
the game is practiced more particularly upon the most respectable element of the community.
Men of families, strangers visiting the city, men of advanced years, and even clergymen are
sometimes caught in the net. As may be imagined, people of this class prefer to lose their
money rather than have their names made public, and so long as such victims are to be found,
panel houses will thrive and thieves become rich. Instances are on record where as much as
eight thousand dollars have been secured from a single victim, who, from his prominence in
social and business circles, allowed the matter to drop, although he was acquainted with the thief.

A man and a woman are essential to the execution of the panel game. The woman's part consists
in "cruising," a term applied to walking the streets to pick up men. The man has two parts
to enact, as "runner" and "robber." The first role consists in being on the street watching
his female decoy. If he sees a man partially under the influence of liquor, he informs the
decoy, who places herself in the way of the obfuscated citizen. Or, in the event of the woman
securing a customer herself, the "runner" observes it, and when she and her new-found friend
proceed towards the house, the "runner" rapidly goes ahead and unobserved slips in first to
make arrangements for the second role in the drama, and which in some cases has ended in a tragedy.

The foregoing more particularly concerns panel thieves, that is, "couples" who adopt the business
on their own account. There are regular panel houses, by which is meant houses of ill-fame,
with perhaps from ten to twenty girl inmates, where nearly every room in the house is perfectly
arranged for systematically pursuing this kind of robbery, and where the moment a girl retires
to a room with a gentleman, the proprietor is notified, and when the chance occurs, completely
cleans the unconscious victim of every cent he may have about him. These houses, however, are
not now as plentiful as they were immediately after the close of the war. The victims of these
houses were many, for outwardly they did not differ from ordinary gilded palaces of sin, and,
being situated in streets well known to contain respectable seraglios, were frequently visited
in the orthodox way by gentlemen in search of the "elephant."

The game, however, is played in precisely the same way in all cases, whether by a "loving couple"
on their own account or by one of the many girls in a regular house instituted for the sole
purpose. And this is the way it is done: A pretty female, young, with entrancing eyes, an elegant
form, richly and fashionably attired, is noticed daintily picking her steps on a street crossing.
She is more frequently noticed in the act of crossing a street, as it affords her an opportunity
of rendering herself still more attractive and seductive by practicing those apparently aimless
little feminine arts that prove so fascinating to the coarser sex. The skirts are just lifted
high enough to discover a beautiful foot; perhaps a glimpse of an ankle bewitchingly smothered
in lace frills is revealed; while a warm scintillant glance of invitation is thrown at the
interested beholder, who, perhaps, follows and engages her in conversation. More than likely
he is agreeably surprised to find how lady-like and attractive her manners are, and by his
own suggestion or her invitation he readily accompanies her to her home; not, however, without
being previously warned that she is married, that her husband is very ugly and jealous, and
a big, strong, quarrelsome fellow, to boot.

The room to which she conducts him is apparently an ordinary room, furnished in an ordinary
way. It is, however, usually a front room, separated by folding doors from the room in the
rear. It is in connection with these folding doors that mystery and danger lurk. These folding
doors are a study. Some are so constructed that instead of opening in the center, one of them
opens upon hinges which are placed on that portion of the doors where the lock is usually situated,
so that it opens at the woodwork on the side. If a chance visitor to one of these rooms should
have his suspicions aroused by any act of his companion, and should closely examine the doors,
he would find a bolt on the inside securely fastened, but he would not be likely to see that
it barely rested in the socket, and thinking everything was all right, his suspicions would
be disarmed. As there would be but one other door in the room--that by which he entered--and
as he locked that himself, privacy would apparently be insured.

In the folding doors are several minute holes, through which a person behind them can watch
all that goes on in the front room. These holes, however, are frequently dispensed with, and
a cough or other understood signal by the female gives the thief warning when all is ready
for his entrance.

After the lapse of perhaps five minutes the female coughs or makes some understood signal,
the door noiselessly opens at the side, a man enters unseen, secures the victims clothing,
disappears into the next room, takes the money out of a pocket-book or pocket, replaces the
pocket-book in the clothes, takes the watch, the studs out of the shirt, everything, in fact,
of any value, and replacing the clothing, softly closes the door again. Now comes the scene:
A knock is heard on the other door--that by which the victim entered. With a slight scream
the female remarks, that the person knocking is her husband, and with great haste proceeds
to dress, all the while telling her now frightened companion that he will kill him if he sees
him, hurriedly assists him to dress and half pushing him, forces him out of the room, down
the stairs into the street.

Another phase of this trick is when, in the absence of folding doors, the lock or bolt is so
arranged that socket and bolt are both upon the door. Another is to fill the socket with some
substance, a cork for instance, so that when the bolt is pushed forward, it fails to enter
the socket.

An instance is related of an elderly man coming into one of these rooms, and casually remarking
to his female friend, "I hope I won't be rapped out of this room by anyone, for I have been
in two places to-night and was rapped out of both." That gentleman was robbed in the first
house he entered, and must have remarked in the second one that he was "rapped out" of the
first, for his companion in this last affair knew what had happened in the other cases, and
that he would not have been treated in that manner unless they had secured his money. And so
his remark being again overheard, he was unceremoniously "rapped out" of this third and last
house. Here is a case from the records which probably illustrates the method as well as any other:

An elderly man, about sixty years of age, entered a panel-room with a dark-haired, flashily-dressed
woman, who immediately requested him to bolt the door. This he did, but he might have saved
himself the trouble, for the door was no more closed then than it was before. These bolts are
very ingenious. The catch on the jamb of the door into which the bolt slides has three false
screw-heads in it. In reality it is not attached to the door-casing at all, but is fastened
to the body of the bolt by an unseen plate. Consequently, when the door is opened, the catch
goes forward with the remainder of the bolt. This, of course, was not noticed by the man, as
the gas was not turned up by the woman till after the door was closed. While the man was bolting
the door the woman hurried to the dressing-table and hastily laid her hat on one chair and
her cloak on the other. This action compelled the man to place his clothes on the couch or
on one of the chairs by the folding doors. When all was ready, one of the operators scratched
lightly on the door with his finger-nail, to warn the woman he was about to enter the room.
The next moment the man boldly opened the door wide, removed the chair out of his way, and
glided rapidly to the other chair, on which the man's clothes lay. At this moment the woman
redoubled her fascinations, for the purpose of distracting the attention of her companion,
in which intent she was eminently successful. The work of going through the man's pockets,
and what is technically known as "weeding" his pocket-book, was quickly over, the chair was
quietly replaced, the panel-door closed, and the thief appeared with a roll of bills in his
hand. The whole thing was done in from twenty to twenty-five seconds. Immediately after the
closing of the door the man went outside, and, knocking on the passage-door of the bedroom,
said in a loud whisper.

"Jenny, here's Joe; hurry up."

"My God!" exclaimed the girl, jumping up, "you must get away as fast as you can. That's my
lover. He's dreadful jealous, and would shoot you as soon as look at you."

It is needless to say that the victim required no urging. He jumped into his clothes as fast
as possible, only too glad to get out of the way before the appearance of the terrible imaginary
lover, and apparently without the slightest notion that he had been robbed.

The victims of these thefts have really no redress. It is so hard to find the guilty woman
afterwards, or even to locate the house, for unless the pleasure hunter suspects some trap
he pays no particular attention to the kind of house, its situation, or its number. In the
case of a stranger he never seeks the thieves again, but "pockets his loss." If an elderly
man, he does likewise. But if he be really an obstinate man, determined upon catching the thieves
and prosecuting them, he will invariably be approached and his money and valuables will be
returned to him upon condition that he withdraws his complaint. Convictions are very rarely
obtained in any case from the difficulty of identifying the parties.

Many of these women never see a penny of the plundered money, the man, in most cases, retaining
the whole of the loot. It sometimes happens that a victim discovers that he has been robbed
before he leaves, and makes what is called in the vernacular a "kick"; if so, it also sometimes
happens that he is unmercifully beaten by the lover and his pals, but it has occurred that
when "the kicker" was a man about town, that he has gotten away with his assailant in a manner
calculated to make the heart of a Sullivan beat with pleasure.

There is quite a different feature of this panel-game, but which more properly belongs to black-mail,
in which, through the peep-holes in the doors, the face of the man or woman in the adjoining
room is studied, waited for on the outside, followed to his or her home, and in a few days
threatened with exposure, if the sum demanded is not forthcoming.

Couples have been known to ply the panel-game very successfully in some of the most prominent
hotels in the city. The lady would make her conquest upon the streets in the ordinary manner
and the game would be worked in two rooms of the hotel as already described. This enterprise
was carried on successfully by a scoundrel and his wife at one time in one of the best hotels,
and although it was generally known, there never was any one to complain against them. It was
only by the proprietor specially employing several detectives that they were finally discovered,
arrested and punished.

CHAPTER IX.

A THEATRICAL ROMANCE.

A good many years since, at a fashionable boardinghouse in Philadelphia, a handsome Adonis-shapen
young man, well and favorably known by the name of George Hemmings, became acquainted with
a member of the fairer sex who had scarcely passed "sweet sixteen," and was accredited with
a bountiful supply of beauty, named then Eliza Garrett. An intimacy at once sprung up between
the two, which at length ripened into a mutual attachment.

A series of journeys were undertaken by Miss Garrett and Hemmings, and for some time they lived
together enjoying all the pleasures and sweets of love; but for some cause the pair separated,
and for a number of years saw nothing of each other. Meantime, many changes had occurred in
the circumstances of both. Eliza had been transformed into Mrs. Bethune and lived in a fashionable
part of Gotham, her reputed husband, John Bethune, Esquire, being a gentleman of wealth and
sporting proclivities.

George Hemmings, who, by the way, was very respectably connected, had migrated from the "City
of Brotherly Love" to "Gotham," and filled a position as superintendent in a dry-goods establishment.

It was whilst in this city, when "walking down Broadway" one afternoon, Hemmings' attention
was attracted by a lady who seemed to have been previously pleased with his acquaintance, and
in whom he recognized his former inamorata, Miss Garrett. A grand recapitulation of the pleasantries
of by-gone days ensued, and the damsel informed her "once dear George" that she was now Mrs.
Bethune, but prevailed upon him to accompany her to her home. Here a hearty welcome was accorded
him, and, if his statement be correct, it is said that the intimacy of former times was renewed.

Matters continued in this manner, and Hemmings was induced to leave his former situation and
take up his abode at the residence of Mrs. Bethune as general superintendent of that household,
inasmuch as Mr. Bethune himself was occasionally absent from the city.

On one occasion, as Mr. Hemmings alleged, the beauteous Mrs. Bethune was violently assaulted
by her better-half for some alleged indiscretion, and it was her early lover who played the
part of Good Samaritan on the occasion, comforting her as well as he was able himself, and
calling in a physician to bind up her wounds. During her sickness, the relationship between
Hemmings and the lady seems to have been of the most intimate character. She gave him a pair
of diamond ear-rings to pledge for four hundred dollars, which money was a portion of an amount
which was to be called into requisition for the necessary engagements and other expenses incurred
at the opening of a theatre in Pittsburg, the management to be assumed by Miss Kate Fisher,
the well-known "Mazeppa" and equestrienne actress, and George Hemmings. A troupe was thereupon
engaged, and the entire company, including Miss Fisher and Hemmings, started for Pennsylvania,
where they intended to delight the inhabitants with the drama of the "fiery, untamed steed" order.

Soon after "Cupid George" departed for the West, Mrs. Bethune became a prey to the "green-eyed
monster." She realized the temptations that would surely beset George as he basked in the smiles
of the alluring and classically modeled equestrienne. Other troubles beset Mrs. Bethune at
this juncture. Her husband asked her one day what had become of her diamond ear-rings, and
she was seized with confusion and dismay. To disclose the truth would be to incur Bethune's
jealousy, natural indignation and too probable violence, and so the convenient idea seems to
have occurred to her that by accusing Hemmings of the theft of the jewelry, she would achieve
a two-fold success; namely, the one of concealing her own frailty, and the other of snatching
her beloved one from a hated supposed rival. Bethune, believing her story, obtained a requisition
from Governor Fenton and procured Hemmings' arrest in Pittsburg, and he was accordingly brought
to this city. The services of Howe & Hummel were called into requisition, and Hemmings brought
into court for trial.

The greatest excitement was aroused amongst theatrical and sporting celebrities, and long before
the opening of the court every seat was filled by eager and expectant spectators, and when
the prisoner was called to the bar an immense throng surged to and fro to obtain a glimpse
at his features, and those of the accusing beauty.

City Judge Russel presided, and the Hon. Robert C. Hutchings, afterwards Surrogate, conducted
the prosecution.

Mr. Hutchings opened the case for the people in a fair and temperate speech, stating that he
was instructed that he should be enabled to establish a clear case of larceny against the defendant,
who then stood indicted for having, on the 19th of October, 1868, at the city of New York,
feloniously stolen, taken, and carried away, one pair of diamond ear-rings of the value of
$400, the property of one James A. Lynch.

Mr. Hutchings then called Mrs. Eliza Bethune, who, amidst breathless silence, was sworn, and
testified that Hemmings was observed by her daughter purloining the ear-rings from her boudoir
drawer on the day in question, and that immediately she was informed of the larceny she had
sought out Hemmings and ascertained that he had fled to Pittsburgh. On inquiry, she had also
traced the missing jewelry to a pawn-office kept by Mr. Barnard, at No. 404 Third avenue, where
the articles were pledged by Hemmings. She also went to Pittsburg with Detective Young, and
the pawn-ticket of the ear-rings was found on Hemmings, which she took from him. Mrs. Bethune
further stated that the officer then handcuffed the prisoner and brought him on to this city.

The witness was then subjected to a rigid cross-examination by Mr. Howe, who propounded questions
as follows:

Mr. Howe: Are you married to Mr. Bethune?

Mrs. Bethune (imploringly to Judge Russel): Am I compelled to answer that question?

Judge Russel: Mr. Howe, I have already ruled that these kind of questions are improper.

Mr. Howe (with pertinacity): Your honor, I desire to show that this witness is not the wife
of Mr. Bethune; and I contend that, in justice to my client, the question should be answered.

Judge Russel: I rule it out.

Mr. Howe: I take exception to the ruling of the court, and will now put another question, namely:

Is Mr. Bethune your husband? (Sensation in court.)

Judge Russel ruled the question inadmissible, and exception was taken.

Detective John Young, of the Eighteenth Precinct Police, was next called, and deposed: I am
connected with the Metropolitan Police of this city; I was sent with a requisition issued by
Governor Fenton to Pittsburgh to arrest George Hemmings for grand larceny; I went there with
Mr. and Mrs. Bethune; I took Hemmings into custody at the Pittsburgh Theatre; he made a violent
resistance, and scuffled with me; I was necessitated to handcuff him in the cars; he became
very abusive and threatening; in fact, so much so, that I was compelled to hit him on the head
with the butt-end of my pistol; at the time of his arrest he had upon him the ticket of the
ear-rings.

Alexander Barnard, a pawnbroker at No. 404 Third avenue, was the next witness, and said: I
know the prisoner at the bar; he pledged me with two diamond ear-rings on the 20th of last
October, which Mr. Lynch subsequently identified as his property.

Cross-examined by Mr. Howe: Hemmings has frequently pawned articles of jewelry with me; he
pledged them in the name of Mrs. Bethune.

Mr. Howe here requested that the pawnbroker should be directed to produce his book in order
that the jury might see the dates, the production of which the counsel insisted would entirely
contradict Mrs. Bethune's testimony.

The book was subsequently produced, and Mr. Barnard testified, on further cross-examination
by Mr. Howe, that Hemmings had pledged with him a watch belonging to Mrs. Bethune on the 17th
of November, being nearly one month after the date the ear-rings were pledged.

Mrs. Lynch proved that the ear-rings were her property, and that she had loaned them to Mrs.
Bethune.

Mrs. Bethune now took the witness stand, and she was asked by Mr. Howe how long she had known
Hemmings, the prisoner at the bar?

Mrs. Bethune: About twelve years.

Mr. Howe: Where did you first become acquainted with him?

Mrs. Bethune: At Philadelphia; I was employed in the United States Mint, and we boarded together
in the same house.

Mr. Howe: Did you subsequently come on to New York with him?

Witness (hesitatingly): I did.

Mr. Howe: Were you on terms of peculiar intimacy with him?

Mrs. Bethune: I was not (sensation in the court): we were friends.

Mr. Howe: Was it not at your solicitation that he was taken to live in the same house with
yourself and Mr. Bethune?

Mrs. Bethune: Yes, it was; but I merely took him in out of charity, as he was poor and had
no clothes (sensation in court).

Mr. Howe: Did you ever stay at the Washington Hotel in this city with him?

Judge Russel here interposed, and informed Mrs. Bethune that she need not answer that question.

Mr. Howe: Did you not visit him when he was employed at A. T. Stewart's store in this city?

Mrs. Bethune: I did; but I got him employed there.

Mr. Howe (aside): Compassionate woman (laughter). Now, Mrs. Bethune, through whom did you get
him employed at that store?

Mrs. Bethune: Through Mr. Griswold, a gentleman of my acquaintance.

Mr. Howe: Did you not know at the time you had Hemmings in your house that he was a married man?

Mrs. Bethune: I did. (Sensation.)

Mr. Howe: Have you not been to the Whitney House with Hemmings?

The court also decided that witness need not answer that question, whereupon counsel took exception.

Mr. Howe: Have you not frequently been to the Chanler House in this city with Mr. Hemmings?

Question overruled.

Mr. Howe: Did you not receive visits from Hemmings in East Fourth street, in this city?

Mrs. Bethune: Am I bound to answer that question?

Judge Russel: I overrule that question, and you need not answer it.

Mr. Howe: Did you ever live in a house in Lombard street, Philadelphia, kept by a Miss Graham,
and did you ever meet Hemmings there.

Mrs. Bethune (indignantly): I did not.

Mr. Howe: Did you ever introduce Hemmings to any person at Saratoga as your brother?

Mrs. Bethune (reluctantly): Yes, I have. (Sensation.)

Mr. Howe: How many times have you given Hemmings your jewelry to pledge that he might have money?

Mrs. Bethune: I never gave him permission to pledge any of my jewelry.

Mr. Howe: Do you mean to swear that he has never pledged any of your jewelry prior to the present
occasion?

Mrs. Bethune: Yes, he has, but not with my consent. (Sensation.)

Mr. Howe: Was that whilst he was living in your house?

Mrs. Bethune: It was.

Mr. Howe: Why did you not have him arrested for so doing?

Mrs. Bethune: Because he cried, and I forgave him. (Sensation.)

Mr. Howe: Yes, you forgave your "BROTHER" (roars of laughter). Now, madam! will you swear that
you did not give Hemmings your watch to pledge on the 17th of November last, nearly one month
after he pledged the ear-rings?

Mrs. Bethune: I did not; I will swear that I never gave him anything to pledge after he pawned
the ear-rings; I did not give him the ear-rings; I paid Kate Fisher the money with which to
open the theatre, and not to Hemmings; I did not pay her in the Chanler House, in Hemmings'
presence; I paid her on the street, the reason Hemmings went to Saratoga with me, was to take
care of Mr. Bethune's horses (immoderate laughter); I will swear that I had not seen Hemmings
since he took the ear-rings until I had him arrested; I did not arrest him right away, because
I was sick; the ear-rings were not mine, they belonged to Mr. Lynch; I borrowed them from Mrs.
Lynch.

Mr. Howe: What was your name when you became acquainted with Hemmings?

Mrs. Bethune: Eliza Garrett.

This closed the case for the prosecution, and Mr. Howe, for the defense, called Dr. J. Kennedy,
who testified as follows:

I am a physician, and reside in East Tenth street in this city; I have seen the prisoner before.
In October last, I saw him in a house in East Fourth street.

Mr. Howe: What were you doing at that house?

Dr. Kennedy: I was attending a lady there, professionally.

Mr. Howe: Would you know that lady again? Dr. Kennedy: I should. Mr. Howe (to Mrs. Bethune):
Madam, will you oblige me by standing up and raising your veil?

The lady complied with Mr. Howe's request, and amidst breathless silence Mr. Howe, addressing
Dr. Kennedy, said, "Doctor, is that the lady?"

Dr. Kennedy: It is. (Flutter in the court-room.)

Mr. Howe: How many times did you visit her?

Dr. Kennedy: Eight or ten times.

Mr. Howe: Was Hemmings in the room with her?

Dr. Kennedy: He was. (Sensation.)

Mr. Howe then applied for attachments against two witnesses who had been subpoenaed to prove
that Mrs. Bethune had been at the Whitney House and the Washington Hotel with Hemmings, but
Judge Russel declined to grant any time, and peremptorily ordered Mr. Howe to proceed with
his defense to the jury.

Mr. Howe then arose and addressed the court. He said:

Gentlemen of the Jury: I approach the consideration of this case with some degree of embarrassment,
which is necessarily forced upon me, from the fact, that whilst discharging, as I shall endeavor
to do, to the best of my ability, my duties as an advocate to the young man accused of this
larceny, I regret that I am called upon to animadvert in terms of censure and reproach, upon
one who leaves a name which is dear and hallowed to us all--the originator of our being--a
name that we all revere and respect when we view it in the beauteous and lovely purity which
is thrown around it. But I think, gentlemen, it is not unfair when that name is divested of
its purity, and becomes shrouded with that which is base and vile--when the guard which we
naturally and intuitively throw around it is dispelled, and, instead of the beauteous statue
of monumental alabaster, we see a black, fœtid, loathsome thing before us, from which we shrink
with indignation and horror, knowing it is that which drags our young men down to degradation,
disgrace and death--I say, in entering upon this prisoner's defense, such is the distinction
between pure and hallowed and virtuous women (against whom none dare point) and her who forgets
herself--forgets the holy ties due to her sex, and her own self-respect: and who assumes the
place of wife to a man without that sanction which God has instituted and commanded, and who,
entrapping others, comes to court to-day--not the pure being to demand your respect--but one
whom we can but contemplate with loathing and disgust, and who has proved herself utterly unworthy
of belief. Gentlemen, I simply wish to direct your attention to the proven facts. I have thus
ventured to allude to the distinction I have endeavored to draw, not for the purpose of warping
your minds, or in any degree throwing an unfair prejudice around this case; but, in view of
the solemnity of the oaths you have taken, to do justice between the People of the State of
New York and the prisoner at the bar, and to see upon what testimony you are asked to consign
an innocent, but foolish young man, for a long term of years to the state prison.

I find in the book before me, gentlemen, to my surprise--and when it will be handed to you
I think you will agree with me and share my astonishment--that on the first day of October
last Mr. Lynch has sworn that his diamond ear-rings were stolen. I find that from the first
day of October until the 8th day of December--a long lapse of nearly two months--no steps are
taken by those who are alleged to have sustained the loss, and nothing is done until the latter
date. I will show you why this demand is made upon the Executive--a novel proceeding altogether,
without any indictment being preferred in this office--and a journey is made to Pittsburgh,
not by the officers alone, but as we have it on the sworn testimony of the woman in this case,
that she, without her protector, without the man Bethune (who is with her now as her husband,
and who professed to be so then), proceeded alone to Pittsburgh, and is subsequently followed
by Mr. Bethune. That is the first era, the first of October. We next find Mrs. Bethune detailing
to you that these ear-rings were taken (how she does not know), but only what she was told
by a little girl whom we have not seen. So her story runs. It is pretty for the present; but
I hope to destroy the poetry of it very shortly. That this man stole, not on the first of October,
but on the 19th of October, and subsequently corrected to-day, by the lady of treacherous memory,
to the date of the 20th. At all events, it is perfectly clear, now, according to her last amended
allegation, that on the 20th of October she claims a larceny to have been committed. But a
Mr. Lynch is supposed to be the owner of the earrings, and not Mrs. Bethune! It transpires
that she had merely borrowed them for a while, as she tells you; and then on the 20th of October
she learns the loss. Why, gentlemen, did not Mrs. Bethune tell you, that nearly a month after
that and in November, she had met this man on the street with Miss Kate Fisher? That they had
business transactions, that she knew him--the theatrical manager--that he was to open a theatre--that
money was supplied by her for that express purpose? Did not she know within one month after
this transaction the same state of facts which she deposes to-day? Why not have had the prisoner
arrested on the street then?

No, gentlemen, I will give you my theory of this case; I will render to you what this man has
told me, and if it be not a common-sense view of it, no logic--no metaphysics--then discard
every word uttered and condemn this man. The pawnbroker throws additional light upon this transaction,
and, gentlemen, if you will refer to the date in his book of the 17th of November (a month
after his alleged larceny), you will find an important fact which I beseech you to hold, pointedly,
in your own estimation. You will remember that she contradicts herself, and stated that she
had had no transactions with Hemmings after the alleged larceny. One of the gentlemen on the
jury put the very pertinent question (seeing the force of this), whether she had transactions
with the prisoner after this alleged stealing. You will remember for yourselves, gentlemen,
and I point to it without fear of contradiction, that at first she stated the ear-rings were
taken on the 19th of October, but, seeing, with a woman's keen perception, the fatal error
she had made in stating that admission, seeing that you, as common-sense men, would have at
once said: "Why not have had him arrested then?" she quickly drew back, like a snail when the
crashing foot is coming upon it, and drew the horns within the shell which covered it; and,
yesterday, corrected the date. She changed the date and put it back from November to October.
I congratulate her upon the change! For all the trickery and malice which were embodied in
it, only enured to the prisoner's benefit. It was here sworn, to-day, that on the 17th of November
last, her watch and chain (her watch and chain, gentlemen) not Mr. Lynch's, but Eliza Bethune's,
was pledged in New York at Mr. Barnard's, the identical pawnbroker with whom the earrings were
pledged. By whom? By Mrs. Bethune? Oh no! gentlemen! but by Hemmings, the man here. If he accomplished
this ubiquitous feat, like the ghost in Hamlet, to be in two places at one time, he is one
of the most wonderful performers of the modern day. (Laughter.) He could not be in Barnard's
pawn-shop in New York pledging Mrs. Bethune's watch on the 17th of November, a month after
the larceny, and be, as she would have you believe, with Kate Fisher performing in Pittsburgh.
Why, look at that contradiction! I invoke that book (pointing to the pawnbroker's record),
as in other temples I appeal to the Holy one, for my protection. In your hands I place it.
Upon your altar do I offer it up; and I believe that you will grant my prayers, that this will
be taken as the strongest evidence of the prisoner's innocence. Records cannot lie here. The
testimony is that this man had subsequent transactions with Mrs. Bethune, supporting, beyond
a doubt, my theory that she gave him the ear-rings to pledge. Now let us see. She tells you
(and there are other circumstances of greater peculiarity still around this case)--she tells
you that she became acquainted with this man some twelve years since; and although I was prohibited
(perhaps properly) by the court from putting other questions, I think I am not saying too much,
when I urge that I did elicit from that lady sufficient to justify any one of you in forming
an opinion as to the immoral terms of intimacy subsisting between Hemmings and that lady who
was upon the witness stand. I can only say that I think there is not one of you composing that
jury who would be pleased to have a wife of yours detailing circumstances in any way similar.
I think that not only jealousy, but indignation of the strongest character, would be aroused
in each of you, and you would unhesitatingly brand her as an adulteress.

Now, gentlemen, we find they have known each other for twelve years, and what besides? Why,
she takes him into her house; she gives him an apartment there. Nay, she does more, according
to her confession. She saw that he was poor and had no clothes (to use her own expression.)
I do not think, gentlemen, that she exactly meant that, when she said it, in its literal signification
(laughter), but she certainly said that he had no clothes, and that she clothed him and she
"took him in" (loud laughter). She went to A. T. Stewart's (kind-hearted charitable woman!)
and saw Mr. Griswold. She interceded with Griswold and got Hemmings a situation in A. T. Stewart's.
What relation was Hemmings to her, at this time, to induce her to take this kind and charitable
interest in him? I, gentlemen, am not so charitable as she professed to be; neither do I think
you will be, gentlemen. I apprehend that the motive which actuated the taking in, the clothing
and the obtaining a situation at Stewart's, was another motive altogether (immoderate laughter).
What it was, I will leave you to conjecture. Look a little further. Hemmings is no relation
to her, and yet we find her taking him to Saratoga! In what capacity? Why, she tells you, to
attend Bethune's horses at Saratoga (laughter). Yes, gentlemen, and this hostler, this stable
boy, in the same breath, is introduced by this lady as what--a lover! oh, no, she dare not
do that--but as a relation--a blood relation! She makes him, for that occasion, her brother
at Saratoga! Well, so far, there is no impropriety, you will say; but coupled with several
other facts--coupled with the act that that book (the pawnbrokers book) teems with the name
of Bethune, as pledging jewelry pledged by Hemmings, and belonging to the lady, you must see
the intimacy which unquestionably existed. She admitted to you that time and again he had pledged
what? Why, he had pledged her studs, her brooches and God knows what all! What did she? Why
not have him arrested then? Oh! well, she says, "he cried--my brother cried." (Loud laughter.)
"I did not like to hurt my brother." She forgave him, and I will tell you why.

You know the quotation that "Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned." Mr. Hemmings, who is
a fine, healthy, fashionable, well-rounded and vigorous, and, some women might say, good-looking
young man, had migrated from the city of New York to spend some time in Pittsburgh, and he
was in dangerous proximity to a very enticing and attractive actress, Miss Kate Fisher. (Loud
laughter).

Gentlemen, in the play of Othello, which many of you have doubtless seen and read, you will
find the episode of the handkerchief, which you will remember belonged to Desdemona; being
the gift of her husband, the Moor. You remember Iago (in that case it was a man, however,)
instigated his wife to purloin the handkerchief, and to deposit it in the chamber of Cassio,
if I am correct; and Cassio, unfortunately, not seeing the little trap that was prepared for
him, wound that spotted piece of cambric around his knee to stop the blood flowing from the
wound he had received in a drunken brawl. Upon Othello seeing that, he states, that not being
jealous, he "was perplexed in the extreme," and the sequel was the murder about which we have
so often heard. I say, gentlemen, if ever there was the play of Othello reduced to private
life and reacted, it is here. These ear-rings are the handkerchief, and Mrs. Bethune is the
Iago. (Laughter.) This young man tells me, that in accordance with ancient usage and time-honored
customs existing between this gentleman and lady, she had given him, as she narrated here,
money to enable Kate Fisher to open a theatre at Pittsburgh, and that Hemmings was to be the
manager. She had given them, from time to time, money obtained from Barnard's pawn office,
through the instrumentality of the unfortunate Hemmings.

That is the history; that is all before you, and it cannot be gainsayed. Then why the arrest
this time more than at the others? It explains itself. You have it in testimony that these
ear-rings were the property of Mr. Lynch, and that Mrs. Lynch had loaned them to Mrs. Bethune.
Hemmings alleges, and I believe with truth, that Mrs. Bethune, whilst riding in a coach with
him, and after a "love encounter" (laughter) gave to him these jewels to hypothecate in the
place to which he had been a frequent visitor for Mrs. Bethune. He goes to this pawnbroker's
not in his own name, but, as the pawnbroker tells you (and I point to that fact as one of the
strong points in the defense), that he panned them with him, telling him at the time that they
belonged to Mrs. Bethune. Would a thief who stole your property or mine go to a place where
he was known, that is if he stole them with the intention of keeping them? There was no larceny
here, no dishonest motive about the transaction. Would he go to the pawnbroker to whom he was
known and say, "Here is some property; it is not mine, it is Mrs. Bethune's?" On the contrary,
you know, gentlemen--you must know--that there are a thousand other pawnbroker's establishments
in New York City; and if this had been a felonious taking of these ear-rings, Hemmings could
have gone to Simpson's across the way from this court house, or to another place at the Battery,
or east, west, north or south, upon any corner in New York to a strange pawnbroker, who did
not know him, had there been any felony about the transaction. Another point is, that a felon
who steals invariably covers up his crime. The Prosecution brought out this fact, and I appeal
to it as their own destruction, why in the name of Heaven did this man, if he intended to appropriate
these ear-rings to his own use, carry about him the evidence of his guilt? Why, they told you
when they got to Pittsburgh, after the altercation, that he produced the pawn-ticket! Did that
look like stealing?

But to revert to the ownership. Mr. Lynch, in a moment of kindness, loaned these ear-rings
to his wife. Mrs. Lynch again loaned them to Mrs. Bethune; and, as Hemmings says, whilst riding
in a coach, she (Mrs. Bethune) gave him those ear-rings to pledge. He did so pledge them. Mind
you, gentlemen, there has been no dispute about that since the commencement; he has never denied
the pledging. Having pledged them, as he represents, a request was made to Mrs. Bethune for
the return of the ear-rings. She could not produce them, and for the best possible reason;
and not until nearly two months after the occurrence is the complaint made before the police
magistrate. She wished to hide from Mr. Bethune (the gentleman who sustained the relation of
husband to her) what had become of the ear-rings; and, necessarily, she had no resort but to
turn round and say: "It is not very pleasant to tell my husband (or the man who stands in that
capacity) that I have given those ear-rings to a lover! I cannot, without offending you, tell
you the true cause of this affair, but I must, in order to save myself, say, O, this George
stole them, and he is in Pittsburgh with Kate Fisher." This is two months after the occurrence!
And then, on the first of December, a requisition is gotten out, and the more marvelous part
of it is, that she goes on alone in the first instance while Mr. Bethune followed subsequently.
Now see what occurred in Pittsburgh. She told you she did not know whether he was arrested
or not. She "believed" there was a form gone through of getting out some papers. She "believes"
she was taken before the mayor; and what became of the case she did not know. But Mr. Bethune,
who could not shield himself in this way, very promptly answered that he was arrested at the
suit of this man; and Hemmings could not make idle charges there. He was a theatrical manager
in Pittsburgh, a public man! and, as they told you, boasted that he was intimate with the members
of the press and police force, who were dead-heads at his theatre, and who witnessed the performance
gratuitously; so that you perceive he was very well known. Do you believe, will any sane man
of common sense credit the statement, that a man who was as well known in Pittsburgh as G.
L. Fox is in this city, could afford to arrest a citizen and have the matter made public unless
he had reasons to do so?

I say, gentlemen, that the entire case, from the commencement to the end, abounds in doubts
suggestive of this man's innocence, especially the fact which cannot be denied, that this lady,
she is not like Cæsar's wife, above suspicion, shields herself, as no honest woman would, behind
that protection which the judge afforded.

Good God, gentlemen, in a court of justice, where jurors are empanelled to decide upon the
future prospects and the life of this young man, would your wife or mine refuse to answer such
a question? Is it a shame for us to acknowledge that the holy bonds of matrimony have united
us with a being--the mother of our offspring? Would you deny that you were the husband of a
lady, placed upon the witness stand to support a charge against a thief for having stolen your
watch? Why, I think, gentlemen, that honor, affection, duty and every obligation known to society,
demands, in imperious tones, that instead of denying the wife of your bosom, you stand forward
as her champion and say, "Thank God, she is my wife and I am proud of it!" That is what you
or I would have answered. But the gauzy curtain that was covered over this foul tableau, has
been lifted up, and you see it in all it hideous deformity. As I have before stated, you have
seen, gentlemen, the flimsy evidence upon which is attempted to predicate a conviction for
grand larceny. I am confident that in spite of all the attempts that have been made by a shameless
wanton and her pretended husband, to crush this man, despite the meretricious trickery and
villainous conspiracy which instigated, concocted and carried out this persecution, relying
as I do, on your sense of justice, your strict integrity, and the independence of an American
jury, that you will not permit our temples erected to justice, to be prostituted to the accomplishment
of the designs of the polluted and the infamous and that innocence will triumph, and your verdict
be "Not guilty."

At the conclusion of Mr. Howe's address, Mr. Hutchings summed up for the people. Judge Russel
proceeded to charge the jury. After recapitulating very carefully the whole of the testimony,
told them that if they were satisfied that the prisoner Hemmings had taken these ear-rings
from Mrs. Bethune, and had pledged them without her consent, then they should convict; but
if they had any well-founded doubt arising from the testimony itself, and not engendered by
the eloquent speech of the prisoner's counsel, then they should give the prisoner the benefit
of the doubt and acquit him.

The jury then retired, and after a quarter of an hour's absence returned into court and rendered
a verdict of NOT GUILTY.

Hemmings was accordingly discharged, and he quitted the court amidst the congratulations of
his friends.

Mrs. Bethune also brought a charge of theft against Kate Fisher, which was heard at Essex Market
Police Court. The New York Herald reported the proceedings next day as follows:

Essex Market court-room was this afternoon densely crowded with theatrical personages of all
grades, apparently deeply interested in the progress of the case which concerns the position
and honor of an actress so well known as Kate Fisher. The seats of the court would not contain
more than half the number of the persons present, the remainder being compelled to stand around
against the walls and in the nooks of the doors, etc. Among those present were W. B. Freligh,
manager of the Bowery Theatre; John Jones, the treasurer; Clark, the stage manager; Deane,
leader of the orchestra, and others. The court-room was at last found to be too small, and
the whole party adjourned to examine the room on the second floor of the building, which was
also found to be rather small, but yet more convenient for the purposes of an examination.

Justice Shandley then took his seat on the bench, and the parties concerned appeared in court.
Mrs. Bethune was rather flashily dressed, and evidently intended to make a show. Kate Fisher
was quietly dressed in black, and was very modest in her demeanor; attracting no attention,
except from those who were acquainted with her. Mr. Bethune accompanied the complainant, and
Messrs. Howe and Hummel, appeared for Miss Kate Fisher.

Having taken their respective seats, the case of Eliza Bethune, of Centreville, Long Island,
against Kate Fisher, for the larceny of a gold watch and chain, valued at $200, was then called on.

Mrs. Bethune, the first witness, was then examined by her counsel. She stated that her name
was Eliza Bethune, and that she resided at Centreville, L. I. She knew Kate Fisher, and knew
her on the 16th of last November. She was then living in East Fourth street. On that day she
missed her watch, and her daughter told her that Miss Fisher had taken it. Acting on this information,
she sent for Kate Fisher on the afternoon of that day. Mrs. Bethune then asked her where her
watch was. Kate Fisher was very much intoxicated at the time, but understood all that was said
to her. She answered that she had taken it, and had given it to Hemmings. The watch and chain
was worth $200. Mrs. Bethune subsequently learned that the watch had been pledged. Some time
after, she, Mrs. Bethune, caused the arrest of Kate Fisher at Pittsburgh, but the case was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

Mr. Howe then asked if the counsel had closed his case, but received an answer in the negative,
as there were more witnesses to be examined. Mr. Howe stated that he was sorry that the case
was not closed, as before he desired to commence a cross-examination he would take all the
evidence to be exhausted. His case was a revival of one which had already been settled at the
General Sessions, and bore on its very face the evidence of a malicious prosecution to injure
the character and spotless reputation of a lady whose profession brought her constantly before
the public, and whose good name became thereby part of her business capital. He regretted it,
therefore, that the counsel for the complainant would not exhaust his case, as it made it necessary
to adopt a course of procedure in his cross-examination that he should have preferred not to
have done.

The counsel for Mrs. Bethune persisting that the cross-examination of each witness should go
on in regular order as each witness appeared on the stand, Mr. Howe then proceeded by asking
the witness her name.

My name is Eliza Bethune.

Are you married?

I am.

To whom?

Mr. Bethune.

What is his first name?

That is not your business.

Counsel appealed to the court, when the magistrate said the question was a proper one, and
she answered:

My husband's name is Bethune. His first name I do not choose to give.

After further questioning, she at last replied:

My first husband's name was John Bethune.

What is the name of your present husband?

That is not your business.

Is he here in court.

He is. He represents me here.

What is his first name?

After a great deal of cross-firing the answer was elicited that it was George Bethune.

Were you ever married to George Bethune, the one who is now in court?

Objected to by counsel.

Justice Shandley: That is a proper question, and must be answered.

That is my business. He has been my husband for over ten years.

Were you ever married to him?

Objected to. Objection overruled.

I have answered already. I have answered all I am going to do.

Justice Shandley insisted that she must answer the questions, but when she still refused, almost
in a defiant manner, he rose from the bench, and declared the case dismissed. His action was
received with rounds of applause from the persons assembled.

Aforetime, when the mariner was entirely dependent on the winds and the tides to make his voyage,
he was, as everybody knows, a peculiarly impulsive, generous, faithful and credulous mortal
in his love affairs. Once ashore, he spliced the main-brace, sneered oathfully at land-lubbers,
hitched up his trousers and ran alongside the first trim-looking craft who angled for his attentions--and
his money. These fine salt-water impulses, begotten of a twelve or fifteen-months' voyage,
have mostly vanished. Steam has greatly revolutionized Jack's sweet-hearting. He comes to port
every fortnight, or so; he wears dry goods and jewelry of the latest mode; and he marries a
wife, or divorces a wife, with the same conventional sangfroid of any mercantile "drummer"
who travels by railroad. The conjugal history of that distinguished son of Neptune, Captain
Oliver Perry Hazard, now to be related, haply has a delectable smack of mercantile jack's old-time
methods, mingled with the shrewder utilitarianism of the steamship Jack of to-day.

Up in the estuary called the Y, and at the mouth of the river Amstel, lay, some years ago,
the good American ship which had safely borne young Hazard across the Atlantic. He was a handsome,
a tall, and a lively young man of five and twenty; and, with a vivacious young mariner's curiosity,
he went ashore to sample the "Holland," for which the Dutch are so famous, to stroll across
the two hundred and ninety-odd bridges, and to take an observation of the pretty girls that
loomed up in sedate but ample old Amsterdam. There, in a saloon where the gin was a most divine
Hippocrene, and the cigars fragrant, Oliver beheld a tight little craft, and straightway ran
up his flag as a salute. She was a brunette, with as pretty a form as the sun had ever kissed.
Her dark, dark eyes were large, lustrous and superb. Oliver shares Lord Byron's weakness for
handsome eyes. He's very fond of them. The name of the Amsterdam divinity was Marie. He resembled
the same illustrious poet in his predilection for the name of Mary or Marie. He thought there
was a sweetness in it. And so he sank into the quicksands of Eros, right over his tarry toplights,
and, nothing loth, Marie accompanied him in the Avernian descent. Every morning that he lay
in the Dutch port our mariner squared his yard-arms and trimmed himself for bringing-to alongside
Marie. Every night the tics were getting tauter, and when he proposed that she should cross
with him to England there was no pitching on her part worth speaking of. And so they voyaged
to Albion and to several ports in Gaul; and there was no lee-way in their love, but still the
tics were getting tauter, evidencing strong probabilities of a life cruise together.

A year or two after, both Oliver and Marie were in New York, and, according to the affidavit
of Captain Hazard's mother, Marie called upon the matron and told her "that she had been living
with her son Oliver; that she had first met him in Amsterdam, and had traveled with him as
his wife in England and in France, and that he had brought her to America." Marie assured the
old lady that she loved him dearly, that she had been faithful and true to him ever since their
intimacy, and hence she was anxious that Oliver should marry her and make her an honest woman
in the eyes of the law and of the world. Whereupon, the mother persuaded the son to marry the
pretty, young, gazelle-eyed girl, who could speak American and write like a born citizen.

Oliver's own account of this momentous event, as chronicled in his affidavit, is not materially
different. He affirms that he first met Marie in a liquor store in Amsterdam, "which she was
in the habit of frequenting. At this time she was of loose character;" she "lived with him
and traveled to England and France, and he was going to send her back to Holland, when his
mother urged him to marry her, which he did reluctantly."

In what way or to what extent, if any, the relations between the young mariner and his wife
were affected after Hymen had stepped in and chained them together, there are data for determining.
If we are to unqualifiedly accept the averments of the captain's affidavit we should come to
the conclusion that Marie's nature and disposition were woefully transformed when she could
legally designate herself, "Mrs. Captain Oliver P. Hazard." She then discovered "a jealous
disposition" and "an ungovernable temper." When he returned from his various voyages she "did
not receive him kindly;" but, contrariwise, sometimes received him on the side of "a poker,"
on the end of "a dirk" or at the muzzle of "pistol." Moreover--and this is dolefully comic--"she
repeatedly left this deponent imprisoned in the house for hours under lock and key!" What a
situation for a foaming mariner, accustomed to roam the vastness of the majestic, the free,
the uncontrollable deep! Probably the next arraignment is still more exasperating. "She kept
a servant to act as a spy and treat this deponent with disrespect." With the lapse of years,
and with the peculiar hue which strife assumes in its backward prospective, his once happy-home
and connubial comforts wore a jaundiced and sickly aspect. He ceased to recall the days when
his heart was linked unto Marie's as a rosebud is linked to its stem.

Mrs. Hazard possessed some letters, written to her by her whilom amorous husband, which will
enable the reader to form a pretty correct idea of the estimation in which, until quite recently,
the captain held his pretty wife. For example, one Fourth of July, he writes from "On board
the U. S. Steamer John Rice," from Fortress Monroe to "My own dear and precious wife," informing
her that the ship has been landing troops, that he feels rather seedy and low-spirited, and
wishes he was at home to spend "the glorious Fourth" in her company. In a postscript he blazes
into amorous enthusiasm and exclaims, "Write your dear Olly!" and in the bottom left-hand corner,
within a sort of fairy circle, about the size of the orifice of a quart-bottle neck, appeared
the gushing invitation, ("Kiss me.")

Nearly a year afterward he writes from Havana, "On board the steamer Liberty, May 6, 1865,"
to "My own dear precious wife," informing her that he is safe from New Orleans, with other
personal matters not necessary to rehearse. He subscribes himself, "Your affectionate and loving
Olly." Over ten years afterward we find the captain writing another letter from on board the
same steamer, October 13, 1875, lying in Savannah, to "My darling beloved wife," in which he
graphically tells her the sort of dog Jocko is. "Jocko came on board all serene," writes the
captain, "He is asleep under my sofa all the time when he is not hunting beef, and I keep my
room very warm. So that is the kind of dog Jocko is. If he was a half decent dog I would keep
him on board, but he is asleep all the day under my sofa, and hates to be on deck. So he is
good for nix, the worse cur I ever saw. I will leave him with a good keeper, and glad to lose
sight of him."

At this period Mrs. Captain Hazard was in the habit of sub-letting a portion of her house;
and in the tail-end of the letter from which we have just quoted reference is made thereto.
"Have you advertised in the Tribute yet? Try fifty cents' worth for two days, you may catch
a sucker. May God, in his infinite mercy, ever bless, protect and make you well and successful,
my darling wife, is the prayer of your ever-loving and affectionate husband, Oliver P. Hazard."
In the usual corner appears the magic circle, with the imperative ("Kiss me.")

In the early portion of the year 1876, he had so persistently coaled up the fires of his love
boilers that he couldn't wait until the steamer sailed, but plunges into glowing correspondence
as soon as he reaches "Pier 2." He is now the captain of the Ocean Steam Navigation Company's
vessel, San Jacinto, and on April 22 he writes, "My own darling good wife," before sailing,
advising her to take good care of herself. The usual circular, hieroglyphic and osculatory
invitation appears at the lower left-hand corner.

Four brief days afterwards our Strephon has reached Savannah. Again he writes, April 26, 1876,
"On board the steamship San Jacinto." To "My blessed good darling wife," informing her that
he has "no aches, no pains," and assures her that he is "growing stronger." Then he rushes
into particulars in the following unique manner: "I still keep my oatmeal diet and Pepson.
God's blessing and infinite mercies on you, my darling. . . . I have had all kinds of horable
imaginations about you. . . . I hope Mr. C. K. Garrison will permit you to make next trip with
me. Eat no salt smoked meats or fish, or drink no strong tea, but cat oatmeal and what will
easily digest, to keep your bowels open. . . . I will, with God's help, be with my dear Marie
on Tuesday. I have the Harriet Beecher Stowe and Crane family to bring North this trip, about
the last of the crowd. I wish they were landed in New York, as I don't like any of them, but
will fight through in a quiet way." This epistle occupies six closely-written and carefully-numbered
pages of note-paper, and the lip sign-manual is emblazoned in the usual corner. It ought to
be remarked that the captain is an admirable penman, moderately seaworthy as to syntax, but
in need of overhauling in an orthographical aspect.

While we are busy with the correspondence, it may be apropos to quote the last amorous letter
he penned to his Marie before a cyclonic storm from the nor'east struck the Hymeneal ship,
and carried away her masts and rigging, leaving a pair of plunging, leaky bulk-heads on the
weary waste of the censorious world's waters. The envelope of this letter is indorsed in a
female hand--evidently the forlorn hand of Marie: "Last letter received from my husband." It
purports to have been written "On board the steamship Herman Livingston, Savannah, Jan. 5,
1878." It begins, in a modified form, thus: "My darling wife," and takes a flatulent turn almost
immediately, "we had a fair wind all the way; a few passengers, and only one lady, which was
Lydia. She was very pleasant and no trouble, as she was not sea-sick, and sat in the pilot-house
most of the time. I am feeling very well now. . . . It is not necessary to say that I have
not drank any strong drinks; that, of course, is finished. I am all right now, you know. .
. . I hope, my darling good wife, that you are feeling much better than when I left you, and
that your sore throat is quite well by this time. . . . I hope you will take good care of yourself
and not get cold. I shall take good care of myself. Little Maria sent me a pretty mug for my
New Year's. I will not use my new napkin ring, as it is too nice to be lost or broken here.
May God ever bless and protect you, and ever make you well and happy, is my ever prayer of
your loving husband,        OLLY."

Let not the reader imagine that Olly's love was all of the lip-and-epistolary cheap style.
Even as faith without works is dead, being alone, so professions of affection without exemplification
would be simply worth "Jocko," and that worthless creature, according to the mariner, was good
for "nix." No; the captain had presented his darling with diamonds--a cross, for example, which
cost $1,000, and a watch and chain and other jewelry, amounting in the whole to $2,800.

The impartial reader, therefore, from the excerpts of his correspondence and the summary of
the jewelry, will be enabled to form a pretty fair idea of the esteem in which the captain
formerly held his wife. Ah! but then the reader is not aware that Olly is very handsome, and
so very, very gay! Olly's immaculate shirt-bosom was in the habit of bristling with diamonds,
in the midst of which, like a headlight at the mizzen-top, coruscated a diamond cluster pin.

Marie was not jealous without a cause. Of this, every lady who has read thus far is morally
convinced. Marie and her "spy" had discovered the cause, just sixteen brief days after Olly
had penned that remarkable letter, with a benediction and a "kiss-me" lozenge at the end, Mrs.
Hazard and her maid, Esther Doerner, hied them down and across town until they reached a boarding-house
on West Ninth street. What happened in this high-toned hash dispensary let Miss Margaret Gilman,
an eye-witness, proclaim by her affidavit:

"At half-past eight in the evening, Mrs. Hazard came in and went to a hall bed-room in the
front, and knocked at the door of said room. She was accompanied by her maid, Esther Doerner.
After she knocked, the door was opened from within by Lena Kimball. Lena attempted to close
the door, but Mrs. Hazard's superior strength forced an opening, and she and her maid entered."
Now let lynx-eyed Esther take up the narrative for a brief space: "Lena was but slightly clothed,
having only a skirt and a sacque on. Lena asked: 'Who is this woman?' Mrs. Hazard replied,
'I am his lawful wife--you are his mistress!'" Then ensued a scene which Margaret and Esther
are in accord in describing: "Lena attacked Mrs. Hazard, slapped her in the face and pulled
her hair, said captain, meantime, holding his wife's hands and thus preventing her defending
herself!"

Let us hear Miss Margaret C. Gilman, who is a dressmaker, a little further: "About the following
Thursday I visited No. 106 West Sixteenth street, at request of said Lena Kimball, to arrange
about a dress for her, when I saw said Captain Hazard enter the room of Lena. I left them together,
alone. Lena told me that the captain would commence proceedings for a divorce from his wife."

Progressing chronologically onwards, we come to another day when Olly and his wife were quarreling
at a great rate in their home up-town. It appeared that the captain had between $4,000 and
$5,000 deposited in the Seamen's Savings Bank, and his wife was anxious that the money should
be drawn and be equally divided between them. To this Olly demurred, whereupon the irate wife
locked her faithless lord in the house, and kept him a close prisoner till he threw up the
sponge and promised to accede to her demands. He obtained his liberty, and ostensibly left
the house for the purpose of drawing the money and transferring $2,000 of it to his wife's
account. What he did do was to draw the cash, go to his brother-in-law's, pay some debts, and
then hand $3,000 to Lawrence Phillips, an insurance broker, at 85 Beaver street.

Of course, Olly did not return to his "blessed and darling wife" that night, nor the next,
nor ever again. He had, no doubt, an attack of the old "horable imaginations," and deemed it
advisable to put himself on an oatmeal diet somewhere in New Jersey. What he did do, as Marie's
detective discovered, was to proceed with Lena to Taylor's Hotel, Jersey City, where they registered
as Mr. and Mrs. James Peake, of Philadelphia. While enjoying this voluptuous seclusion with
the fascinating young blonde, Olly was plotting mischief and otherwise conspiring against the
forlorn Marie's peace and happiness. The following documents disclose the form their unchaste
deliberations assumed. On the eleventh of February, the ill-used Olly sent a freezing letter
to his wife, from which we quote:

"In view of the unhappy relations which exist and have for many years existed between us, I
have reached the conclusion that it is impossible for us longer to live together as man and
wife. Your manner of treating me has been so outrageous that it is necessary, in order to live
with you that I should sacrifice my manhood, my independence and my self-respect, as well as
the respect of all the members of my family and of my friends. While I believe your conduct
would, in the eyes of the law and society, warrant me in refusing you all support, still I
am inclined to deal liberally with you, and I have clothed Mr. Stanton, my counsel, with power
to arrange the details of a separation." He then goes on to state that, in such an arrangement,
certain considerations should have full weight, to wit: "That I am at present suspended from
my situation, and that you assert you brought about my suspension; that you have a very comfortable
home, for which I pay the rent, with about $5000 worth of furniture, which I would be willing
to turn over to you; that you have valuable diamonds, and that I have given you a great deal
of money of late."

Marie was, no doubt, pondering over her frigid Olly's proposal, and making up her mind how
to proceed, when another letter reached her. It was written in a bold, clear, round hand. It
bore no date or superscription, but the envelope is stamped: "New York, Feb. 12, 12 o'c." The
letter might have been written by a love-crazed Cassandra. It was as follows:

"You imagine me in Philadelphia. Not so. I am in the city, and will remain here until I accomplish
the ruin and destruction of the old fool, your husband, and yourself. I have sworn revenge
on you and I shall keep my oath. I do not care a damn for the old man. You expect him home
to-night, but you will be disappointed. The old fool is trying to get a divorce from you now.
My vengeance being accomplished I will leave the city, and not until then.

"With hatred and revenge, I am your enemy until death,         LINA KIMBALL."

Mrs. Hazard had been acting under legal advice, so far as the discovery and proof of her husband's
unfaithfulness were concerned. But determining upon a more active and aggressive warfare, she
was prudently advised to intrust her interests to Messrs. Howe & Hummel. The conflict was speedily
begun. On February 16th the first papers in the case were served upon Captain Hazard at his
lawyer's office, 198 Broadway. On the same day Mr. Henry Stanton promptly gave notice of his
appearance in Olly's behalf. On the twentieth of February, on the application of Howe & Hummel,
an order of arrest was granted by Judge Donohue, on the ground that the defendant intended
to leave the city, and that any order for alimony would thereby be ineffectual. On the following
day the captain did leave the city for Boston, and registered at the Parker House. It is alleged
that he was seen with Lena Kimball in the Hub; but the captain explained afterwards that he
had not vamoosed on purpose--he had gone to inspect a ship, with the possible intention of
buying a captain's share.

On February 28th, Mr. Stanton served upon Messrs. Howe & Hummel a copy of a petition and notice
of motion returnable the third Monday in March. On the same day the complaint was served upon
defendant's lawyer. Meantime, detectives were on the qui vive for Olly. They had his portrait
on tin imperial size, and they had a lock of his hair in an envelope. There were certain lager-beer
saloons in the vicinage of Sixth avenue and Sixteenth street he was said to frequent. A sharp
lookout was kept on his brother-in-law, Bradbury, as well. On March 19th the sheriff tapped
the distinguished son of Neptune on the shoulder and exhibited a momentous piece of paper.
The captain took an observation and hauled down his colors as a free man. He was a prisoner
and put himself promptly in tow. After a short run and a few tackings they ran into Ludlow
Harbor, and all was made taut for the captain.

Next day the petition and motion was argued for the prisoner, by Mr. Stanton, before Judge
Lawrence. Mr. Hummel opposed on behalf of Mrs. Hazard. It was argued that the alleged acts
of adultery had been condoned; that the defendant had no intention of leaving the state; that
when he separated from the plaintiff he went to live with his brother-in-law and mother; and
that he went to Boston for the purpose already stated. The alleged pokerings and dirkings and
pistolings were dilated upon. Esther, the spy, was denounced. It was affirmed that "on one
occasion, when he returned," with the odor of the sea fresh upon him, "plaintiff had a baby."
It has never been claimed that he was the father of it. Nor does he know who is the father.
He has never been able to find out the paternity of that babe, "nor does he know who the mother
is." Notwithstanding that he has been suffered to swell almost to bursting with ignorance of
these bottom facts, he "has been forced to support it." He showed that Mrs. Hazard possessed
diamonds and furniture and twenty-one building lots on Long Island; that she had been extravagant
as to crayon portraits and carriage hire; that for the last-mentioned item alone her expenses
for February had been about eighty-seven dollars. Wherefore, counsel argued, the court ought
either to dismiss the arrest or reduce the bail from $6,000, at which it had been fixed. Mr.
Howe had an equally affecting story to rehearse. He showed that Mrs. Hazard had been compelled,
through her husband's neglect to provide her with money, to pay several visits to a relative
of hers, to whom the adage "Blood is thicker than water" does not apply. With this personage
she had left, for pecuniary considerations received, her diamond cross and other valuables.

The judge took the papers and, a few days afterward, ordered the parties to the suit to appear
before a referee, who was instructed to take proof as to the defendant's ability to pay alimony,
and to determine what amount should be paid. On the evidence taken before the referee, Lamberson,
who died before the testimony was all in, both sides agreed on the question of alimony.

Thus far Mrs. Hazard's lawyers had carried all before them like an irresistible flood. They
now turned their attention to Lena Kimball. Mrs. Hazard had not forgotten nor forgiven that
face-slapping and hair-pulling in Ninth street. Lena's maledictory epistle had added brimstone
to the fire. And so it came to pass that Messrs. Howe & Hummel brought an action in the Supreme
Court against Lena for the assault and battery of their client. An order of arrest was promptly
issued by the court, holding the ravishing young blonde in bail in the sum of one thousand
dollars. After she had enjoyed the hospitalities of the warden for two days, the captain planked
down a thousand dollars in the hands of the sheriff, and Lena was free.

Behold, now, how tribulation followed tribulation!

Two days after Lena had breathed the air of freedom, Mrs. Hazard and her lawyers went before
a police magistrate, and had the fair creature arrested criminally for the same offense of
assault and battery. Being produced, Mrs. Kimball gave the required bail to answer at Special
Sessions. A fortnight afterwards the case came up. Lena pleaded guilty, and was fined.

After a good deal more litigation, an order was entered in the Supreme Court referring the
many issues of the case to James P. Ledwith, Esq., to take testimony and report thereon to
the court. Many hearings were had before the referee, and finally his report was in favor of
the plaintiff, Mrs. Hazard, who was awarded an absolute divorce, with a liberal allowance of
alimony and costs.

CHAPTER XI.

THE BARON AND "BARONESS."

The Romance of Baron Henri Arnous de Reviere, and "The Buckeye Baroness," Helene Stille.

During one October, our offices were visited by a lady who had achieved considerable distinction,
as well as notoriety, in Parisian society. This was Mrs. Helene Cecille Stille, otherwise the
"Baroness de Reviere," and sometimes designated "The Buckeye Baroness," She came for the purpose
of prosecuting a charge against the Baron de Reviere of "wrongful conversion and unlawful detention
of personal property," arising from circumstances which will appear further on.

The "Baroness" was then, as she still is, a handsome woman. She was then somewhat on the youthful
side of thirty. Highly attractive and fascinating, her every movement and gesture bespoke a
vigorous physical organization and perfect health. While the curves of her fine form partook
more of Juno's majestic frame than Hebe's pliant youth--while the full sweep and outline of
her figure denoted maturity and completeness in every part, the charming face, the large, gazelle
eyes, the voluptuous ease of her attitude, the gentle languor of her whole bearing, constituted
a woman which few susceptible young or even mature men could have looked on without misgivings
that they might but too soon learn to long for the glances, the smiles, the witcheries which
had made Helene Cecille Stille, in many respects, a counterpart of Helen of Troy.

We were not acquainted with the lady's antecedents nor with her remarkable history; but she
told a plausible story, and was very fluent and indignant, as may be gathered from the following
extract from the affidavit which was drawn under her instructions at the time:

Superior Court of the City of New York: Helene Stille, plaintiff, against the Baron Henri de
Reviere, defendant. City and County of New York, ss.--Helene Stille, of said city being duly
sworn, says that she is the above-named plaintiff, and that she has a good cause of action
against said defendant for wrongful conversion and unlawful detention of personal property,
arising on the following facts, namely:

In the summer of 1865, in the French empire, the above-named defendant, giving himself out
to be a French nobleman of princely fortune, and then representing himself to deponent as an
unmarried man, but being in truth, as deponent has since discovered, then a married man and
a common plebeian, swindler and common chevalier d’ industrie; by divers arts, devices, false
pretences and allurements, gained this plaintiff's affections and confidence, and did, by false,
wicked and fraudulent devices, debauch this plaintiff and induce her to live with him as his
wife; and having thus basely obtained ascendancy over her and won her confidence, did, by trick
and device, induce this plaintiff to deposit with him for safe keeping on the tenth day of
September, at the city of Paris, in France, the sum of twenty-seven thousand five hundred francs
in gold coin, and of the value of seven thousand five hundred dollars of American money, belonging
to this deponent; and said defendant then and there promised and agreed to return the same
property to this deponent on request.

And this deponent says, that having ascertained the defendant's real character, she demanded
the restoration to her of said money by said defendant, when said defendant absconded from
France and is now in this City and wholly refuses to return said amount of seven thousand five
hundred dollars to deponent, or any part thereof; but said defendant has wrongfully converted
said property to his own use, and now unlawfully detains the same from this deponent, at said
city of New York, and is now, as deponent is informed and verily believes, about to quit this
city, said defendant being only a transient boarder at the New York Hotel in this city.

Judge Freedman granted the application for an order of arrest; the warrant was placed in the
hands of Sheriff O'Brien; and Deputy Sheriffs Laurence, Delmore and the present elegant police
court clerk, John McGowan, proceeded to the New York Hotel, and just as the guests were assembling
for dinner, the haughty aristocrat was made a prisoner, despite his indignant protests.

In the newspapers of the day Mrs. Stille was described as "a beautiful woman, twenty-eight
years old, who has seen more life all over the globe than any woman of her age now living."
She was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, the daughter of respectable and well-to-do parents. Superbly
developed and precocious, at a very early age Helene began to sound the chords of feeling and
to taste the Circean cup that promises gratification and excitement, mingled with so much after-bitterness.
When she was yet seventeen, she was married to George Stille at Philadelphia, after the briefest
kind of an acquaintance. With him she came to New York, living in a style of careless gayety.
Early in 1867, she gave birth to a child, named George after his father, and in June of that
year Mrs. Stille, and Georgie, and his nurse, Mrs. Demard, were living in Saratoga. The dashing
young wife's flirtative proclivities led to a quarrel with her husband, and he left her in
a huff. His desertion did not perceptibly disturb the serene elasticity of her mind. She possessed
expansive tastes and a capacious heart, and she was speedily consoling herself by the attentions
of George W. Beers in the gay watering-place. When Helene, Mr. Beers, the baby and the nurse
returned to New York in September, they occupied a suite of rooms at the Prescott House. Not
unnaturally, the presence of the dashing woman in the hotel created a sensation, as such a
presence always will, as long as men continue to be the weak, erring, susceptible creatures
they are. So Helene was flattered, and courted, and admired; and as usual, some she fancied,
some she liked, some she laughed at, and some she reserved for her more precious favors. Then,
of course, Beers mounted up on his ear, and there was a quarrel, which resulted in the party
leaving the Prescott House for quarters over the club house at the corner of Prince and Mercer
streets. More quarrels for the same cause eventuated here, and then Beers left her for a while.
Not at all disconcerted, she took the child and his nurse to the St. Denis Hotel, where Beers
again returned, magnanimous and forgiving. But alas, it was no use. Helene's craving for admiration,
masculine attention and money were insatiable. So Beers became wildly jealous and indignant,
and left her for good. When next heard of, she was in Paris, where she had succeeded in making
the acquaintance of the Due de Morny, and sometimes figured as la Duchesse.

Baron Henri Arnous de Reviere was the eldest son of Baron William Arnous de Reviere, Counsellor-general
of the Department of the Loire Inferior. The title is hereditary; the family estate is situated
at Varades; and the ancestral records are kept in the archives of the ancient city of Rennes
in Brittany. The Baron first cropped up in this country about the outbreak of the rebellion,
when people here and in England were in great excitement over the steps taken by the general
government in securing the arrest of Messrs. Mason and Slidell. He had apparently made one
of the elder Dumas' heroes his exalted ideal, for at the period we speak of he had set the
fashionable world of Gotham agog by making a romantic conquest of a Mobile belle, who, after
becoming thoroughly infatuated with him, eloped to a prominent watering-place. The interference
of her friends prevented the consummation of a wedding; but his escapade formed the subject
of a book, afterwards dramatized, and acted at Wallack's Theatre. Subsequently the Baron married
Miss Blount, the daughter of a rich Southern lawyer.

When he returned to Paris, his fame had preceded him. Society in the gay capital under the
empire was of the kind to appreciate his exploits and to exalt him into a sort of rivalship
of Monte Cristo. He assiduously attended the theaters and salons, receiving homage everywhere-even
from the emperor himself. Finally he mounted the rostrum, and his lectures on L'Amour were
the talk of the gay city.

Among those who had rushed to listen to the Baron's impassioned eloquence was Helene Cecille
Stille, now the proprietress of the handsomest hotel on the Rue Mont-martre. It need scarcely
be premised that the wandering and appreciative eyes of the lecturer had rested on the beautiful
American, as she sat before him in an attitude expressive of dormant passion, tinged with an
imperious coquetry which was one of the most alluring of her charms. The Hotel Montmartre was
then the fashionable resort of Louis Napoleon's dissolute nobility, and the Baron de Reviere
soon found himself a worshiper in the luxurious retreat. He was not a man who courted by halves.
He fell madly in love with the voluptuous Helene, and yielding to an irresistible penchant,
the soiled beauty threw herself and her accumulated francs into his arms.

The Baron was one of those few men whose manners were perfect and whose dress never strikes
the eye, but which seems to have developed on them as the natural foliage of their persons.
He had a high appreciation of the enjoyments of life--vanity, ostentation, good eating, and
even the austere joys of the family. At home with his wife he illustrated the tender assiduity
of the young husband; abroad he was the personification of a youth just freed from parental
discipline. While his wife was the happiest woman in Paris, he was rendering Miss Stille equally
felicitous. The dinners he gave at home were unexcelled except by those banquets which he gave
at the hotel in the Rue Montmartre.

So complete had become the Baron's infatuation with the fair Helene in September, that he took
her to Biarritz, and, according to her own story, introduced her to the Emperor Napoleon. "Then,"
to use her own language when examined under oath, "I came back to Paris; stayed there about
a week, and then went to London with de Reviere. After spending ten days in London, we went
back to Paris and stopped at the Hotel de Louvre. We then went to Bordeaux, where I remained
a few days, and whence I went to Lisbon, Portugal, staying six weeks, and went back to Paris
by way of Marseilles, traveling part of the distance in the yacht of the Bey of Tunis. From
Paris, I went with de Reviere to Nantes, thence to Nazarre, where I stayed two days with de
Review's sister."

At this time the lady described her possessions as follows: "I had two hundred thousand francs
worth of furniture, fifty thousand francs of objects de vertu, nine horses, five carriages,
a hundred thousand francs worth of jewelry, many India shawls, twenty thousand francs worth
of furs of every kind and description known in the world, any quantity of laces, twelve velvet
dresses of different shades, and a toilet-set worth eighty-thousand francs, besides an income
derived from my family in America of sixty thousand dollars," received regularly through the
hands of her banker Mr. John Monroe of 5 Rue de la Paix.

Helene Stille then disposed of her maison and started with the Baron de Reviere on a trip to
South America. A full account of that trip would read like a supplement to the Arabian Nights.
For the purposes of this tour the lady became the Baroness de Reviere, and the pair traveled
through the land of Cortez and Pizarro like some fabled Eastern conquerors. A courier rode
ahead, and engaged nearly the entire apartments of every hotel at which they condescended to
stop. Postilions and outriders accompanied their entrance. In the hotels the Baron and "Baroness"
had their magnificent court dresses unpacked to impress and bewilder and confound the guests,
while the gaping domestics would spread the news abroad until the entire population of the
town would be assembled open-mouthed in front of the Baron's hotel, watching his movements
and admiring in no stinted terms the statuesque beauty of the "Baroness." This extensive triumphal
procession cost a lot of money, every cent of which is said to have been paid by the infatuated
woman.

It was during their progress through Peru that she seems to have first made the discovery that
the Baron already possessed one legal wife. From that hour, it is related to her credit, she
stopped all marital relations. She parted from her companion then and there, and returned to
Paris. She had two children by the Baron, as she testified in the legal proceedings brought
by her. The eldest, a boy, was named "Monsieur le Comte Edmond Viel d'Espenilles; the girl,
Santa Maria Rosa de Lenia--names given them by the Baron; for," added the lady, "he is fond
of long and sonorous names."

After the separation the Baron and Helene Stille were at daggers drawn. They had some virulent
litigation in Paris, and when the Baron came to New York with his family, consisting of his
wife, two children, two men servants and three maid servants, she quickly followed. The Baron
and his establishment were sojourning at the Clarendon Hotel, when he received the following
letter:

"MONSIEUR HENRI DE REVIERE:

I wish to know whether you intend doing anything toward the support of your child? She is a
poor, delicate little thing, being afflicted with curvature of the spine. I have had her under
treatment of Dr. Taylor for the last three months and his charges are five hundred dollars,
which for me, with my other expenses, is a great deal. I hope you will consider my claim a
just one and act accordingly. Rosa de Lenia is one of the most beautiful children in the world,
and I love her with such a love as you could never dream of.

Reply by bearer, or send reply later in the day, just as you feel disposed; but a reply I must
have. I should think your amour proper would not allow you to abandon your child, as you have
done for nearly three years.

HOFFMAN HOUSE, Sept. 26        HELENE DE STILLE"

The rejoinder was insulting, and so she had him arrested in order that "he might disclose those
dreadful things he pretended to know about me."

There was a hearing of the lady's case before Judge Jones of the Superior Court, when most
of the foregoing particulars of Miss Stille's history was drawn from her in cross-examination
by the defendant's counsel. At a subsequent hearing the Baron contributed an affidavit containing
many startling assertions accompanied by big figures.

"I left Paris in April for Madrid," he began, giving exactly the same route already described
by Miss Stille. Continuing, he said, "Further, I have had an office as government contractor
for artillery and ships of war. I also contracted with a Liverpool ship-builder (Laird) for
two iron-clads and four steam corvettes for twelve million francs. I acted as agent and partner
of L. Arman of Bordeaux and Vous of Nantes, and received in one year for my share eleven hundred
thousand francs profit. I sold forty guns to the Danish government, receiving as my commission
forty-five thousand francs. I sold in 1884, to the Prussian government, an iron-clad and two
steam corvettes for seven million five hundred thousand francs, and received five per cent,
commission." Then he professed to have had gigantic contracts in Chili, Peru and other parts
of South America for artillery and guano. Altogether his story was of the Brobdingnagian type.

The case, however, never came to trial, the friends of both parties to the action suggesting
an amicable settlement of their differences, which being adjusted to everyone's satisfaction,
the Baron went his way, lecturing on "Love," a theme on which he was most conversant, and the
fair Helene spent her time flitting between this city and gay Paris, in both of which cities
she is thoroughly at home. And so the somewhat famous episode ended, so far as the office of
Howe and Hummel was concerned.

CHAPTER XII.

THE DEMI-MONDE.

Reader, did you ever try to estimate the malign influence upon society of one single fallen
woman? Did you ever endeavor to calculate the evils of such a leaven stealthily disseminating
its influence in a community? Woman, courted, flattered, fondled, tempted and deceived, becomes
in turn the terrible Nemesis--the insatiate Avenger of her sex! Armed with a power which is
all but irresistible, and stripped of that which alone can retain and purify her influence,
she steps upon the arena of life ready to act her part in the demoralization of society. As
some one has remarked, "the lex talionis--the law of retaliation--is hers. Society has made
her what she is, and must now be governed by her potent influence." Surely the weight of this
influence baffles computation! View it in shattered domestic ties, in the sacrifice of family
peace, in the cold desolation of once happy homes! See the eldest son and hope of a proud family,
educated in an atmosphere of virtue and principle, who has given promise of high and noble
qualities. He falls a victim to the fashionable vice, and carries back to his hitherto untainted
home the lethal influence he has imbibed. Another and another, within the range of that influence,
suffers for his lapse from moral rectitude, and they in turn become the agents and disseminators
of fresh evils.

This promiscuous association is tacitly regarded as a necessary evil, the suppression of which
would produce alarming and disastrous effects upon the community at large. The passions, indolence,
and the love of dress and display are the main agents in producing the class of women we have
under consideration. It is a vulgar error and a popular delusion, that the life of a fallen
woman is as revolting to herself as it appears to the moralist and philanthropist. Authors
of vivid imagination love to portray the misery that is brought on an innocent and confiding
girl by the perfidy and desertion of her seducer. The stage presents the picture with all its
accessories of light, color and morbid emotion. The pulpit takes up the theme and howls its
evangelical horrors, picturing those women as being a continuous prey to "the long-beaked,
filthy vulture of unending despair." Women who in youth have lost their virtue, often contrive
to retain their reputation, and even when this is not the case, frequently amalgamate with
the purer portion of the population, and become, to all outward appearance, good members of
society.

The love of woman is usually pure and elevated. But when she devotes her affections to a man
who realizes her ideal, she does not hesitate to sacrifice all she holds dear for his gratification.
Actuated by a noble self-abnegation, she derives a melancholy pleasure from the knowledge that
she has utterly given up all she had formerly so zealously guarded, and she feels that her
love has reached its grand climacteric when she abandons herself, without redemption, to the
idol she has set up in the highest place in her soul. This heroic martyrdom is one of the recognizable
causes of the immorality that insidiously permeates our social system.

The crime of prostitution can be witnessed in New York in every phase in which it invites or
repels the passions of men. There are the splendid parlor houses distributed in the most fashionable
parts of the city; there are the bar houses; there are the dance houses; and there are the
miserable basements where this traffic is seen in its hideous deformity, divested of the gaslight
glare and tinsel of the high-toned seraglios. The internal arrangements of the palatial bagnios
are in many instances sumptuous, magnificent and suggestive. The walls of these seductive arsenals,
too, are frequently of a color calculated to throw the most becoming shade over the inmates,
while the pictures on the walls usually suggest resplendent sensuality. Many of these gilded
palaces are patronized by prominent citizens, officials in the government, state and civic
employ. Many of them, already married, keep mistresses in these establishments, while others
are content to be recognized as "lovers" of the inmates. Many of the country merchants who
periodically visit New York insist on being taken the "grand rounds," as it is termed, before
they will order goods or attend to business at all. The salesmen in our leading houses are
expect to be posted, and to act as escorts sad chaperones in this wine-guzzling tour. Indeed,
so much is this disgraceful feature recognized in some large business houses, that the proprietors
make an allowance to their salesmen for this purpose.

The proprietresses of these houses are all impervious to shame, and carry on their trade with
the sole ambition of realizing money. Many of them have summer establishments and suburban
villas at the watering-places, and carry on their nefarious business at Saratoga, Long Branch,
Coney Island, Newport and Cape May during the summer mouths. Many of them own handsome equipages,
in which, gorgeously attired, with liveried menials, they show themselves in Central Park to
the envy of the virtuous and honest of womankind. It is in the places kept by these women,
where the inmates are usually handsome young girls between the ages of fifteen and thirty,
that the precocious and well-to-do young men of this city fall an easy prey to vice, and become
in time the haggard and dissolute man of the town, or degenerate into the forger, the bank
defaulter or the swindler.

The bar and basement brothels, profusely scattered over the lower portions of the city, present
the most miserable phase of this disgusting evil. Nearly all these places are kept by men,
though nominally under control of their mistresses and wives, who are generally hideous specimens
of womanhood, and whose features present the traits of sensuality, cruelty and avarice as clearly
expressed as if traced there by Belial himself. The men, flashily dressed and bejeweled, their
flabby features decorated by a huge dyed mustache, frequent race courses and other places of
public resort, and loud in appearance as they are obscene in talk, are, in the estimation of
every self-respecting man, eminently fitted by Lucifer for laboring in the State-prison quarries
for the term of their natural lives.

The inmates of these basement brothels invite the pencil of a Hogarth. Their bloated forms,
pimpled features and bloodshot eyes are suggestive of an Inferno, while their tawdry dresses,
brazen leer, and disgusting assumption of an air of gay abandon, emphasizes their hideousness
and renders it more repulsive. Most of them have passed through the successive grades of immorality.
Some of them have been the queenly mistress of the spendthrift, and have descended, step by
step, to the foul, degraded beings of those human charnel-houses. In some instances fresh-looking
girls will be seen, and careful inquiry will discover the fact that they were either emigrant
or innocent country girls, who have been inveigled into these dens by the arts of procuresses
or brought there by their seducers. Unsophisticated and unacquainted with life in a great city,
without money or friends, they have been entrapped and compelled to submit to a life of shame
by the coarse words and frequently the brutal violence of their captors.

Between the two extremes of unfortunates already described, there is another class nomadic
in their habits. Some of these are street-walkers, some frequent dance houses like The Allen's,
Billy McGlory's, Owney Geoghegan's and Harry Hill's, while others circulate around such up-town,
west-side houses as the French Madame's, the Haymarket and Tom Gould's. They usually live in
furnished rooms, in houses owned by wealthy and respectable citizens, let to them by agents
who lease them at exorbitant rents, paid in advance. In both the eastern, western and central
portions of the city they may be found occupying rooms on the same floors with respectable
families. These women seldom conduct the prey that they have allured to their home, but to
some assignation house or fourth-rate hotel, of which there are a large number scattered over
the city.

Most of this class of unfortunates have a "lover"--a gambler or pimp, who occupies their room
and assumes the role of husband and protector for the nonce, with the privilege of spending
the girl's blood money in drink or dissipation, and unmercifully beating her when he feels
inclined that way. The pair call this place their home, and as they are shiftless in their
habits, and careless of sickness, they are frequently in a condition of chronic impecuniosity
and are thus liable to be "fired out" by the heartless agent. Many of these girls, from their
association with vicious society, become thieves, and ply their light-fingered privateering
while caressing their victim. It is a favorite dodge of some of the more comely and shapely
of this class, especially the frequenters of such places as Gould's, the Haymarket, the French
Ma-dames, the Star and Garter, and the Empire, to ask gentlemen on whom they have been unavailingly
airing their becks and nods and other fascinations to put a quarter into the top of their hosiery
"for luck." They usually get the quarter, and sometimes the man as well.

The assignation houses are usually located convenient to the great arteries of travel, and,
as we have already hinted, they are largely patronized; while the number of "flash hotels"
which are frequented by the "soiled doves" and their mates, is also numerous and scarcely less
notorious than the assignation houses. The proprietors of these "convenient" hotels invariably
keep the hotel register required by law, but agreeably fail to ask their lodgers for the time
being to chronicle either their own or even a fictitious name, thus, day after day, violating
a specific statute.

Besides these, there are assignation houses of a far different character. By these we mean
the introducing houses, such as ostensible millinery establishments and the like in fashionable
but retired streets, where ladies meet their lovers. Married women of the haut ton, with wealthy,
hard-working husbands courting Mammon downtown, imitating the custom of Messalina, not uncommonly
make use of these places. Sometimes the lady will even take along her young child as a "blind,"
and the little innocent will be regaled with sweetmeats in the parlor while the mother keeps
her appointment up-stairs.

Liberally, every woman who yields to her passions and loses her virtue is what Tom Hood would
have called "one more unfortunate," but many draw a distinction between those who live by promiscuous
intercourse, and those who merely manifest, like the ladies referred to above, a penchant for
one man. There is still another denomination of this latter kind, whom all the world has heard
of as kept mistresses. These women exercise a potent influence upon society and contribute
largely to swell the numbers of well-to-do young men who manifest an invincible distaste to
marriage. Laïs, when under the protection of a prince of the blood; Aspasia, whose friend is
one of the most influential noblemen in the kingdom; Phryne, the chere ami of a well-known
officer, or a man of wealth known on the stock exchange and in the city--have all great influence
upon the tone of morality, while the glare of their dazzling profligacy falls upon and bewilders
those who are in a lower condition of life, and acts as an incentive to similar deeds of licentiousness,
though necessarily on a more limited scale.

The prevalence of the kept mistress surpasses the wildest imagining in this city, although
in many a home her dire influence has extinguished the Hymeneal torch, and left nothing but
ashes and desolation. It is a great mistake to imagine that these kept women are without friends
and debarred from society. On the contrary, their acquaintance, if not select, is numerous.
They are useful, good-looking, piquant, tasteful and vivacious. Many of them have more than
one lover, and conduct their amours with singular finesse, generally escaping detection. They
are rarely possessed of more than a smattering of education, because their ranks are recruited
from a class where education is not in vogue. They are not, as a rule, disgusted with their
mode of living--most of them consider it as a means to an end, and in no measure degrading
or polluting. Most of them look forward to marriage and a certain state in society as their
ultimate lot. Many of these women reside in the most fashionable apartment houses up-town,
and successfully conceal their shame from the inquisitive eye of the respectable matron. They
may also be seen in the most fashionable hotels and boarding houses, while they have even crept
in as members of institutions and organizations which were incepted solely for the benefit
of high-toned and virtuous women. Moreover, they are to be seen in boxes at the theatre and
the opera, and in almost every accessible place where wealthy and fashionable people congregate.
In point of fact, through the potent influence of their more or less wealthy protector, they
possess the open sesame to all places where admittance is not secured by vouchers, and in many
instances those apparently insuperable barriers fall before their indorser's tact and address.

Our practice has furnished many illustrations of Thackeray's shrewd remark, that "Most men
have sailed near the dangerous isles of the Sirens at some time of their lives, and some have
come away thence wanting a strait-waistcoat." The following is a case in point, which occurred
in the time of the Tweed régime. The position, wealth and influence of the somewhat mature
Lothario, backed by the more or less corrupt judiciary of those days, prevented the ventilation
of this most remarkable and sensational scandal of our times in the newspapers. Begun as a
piquant flirtation, the intimacy, so far as the principal actor was concerned, traversed all
the stages between bliss and rapture on the one side, and fear and remorse on the other--between
garlands of roses and the iron link, forging a clanking manacle of the past. A man of singularly
graceful presence and attractive mien; a leading member of the bar, whose Corinthian taste
and princely hospitality nominated him as a fitting host of the Queen of England's eldest son,
when he visited this city; a prominent figure in the returning board that conferred the Presidency
on Hayes; and finally his country's representative at a leading European court; he now sleeps
the sleep which sooner or later comes to all--to victim as well as to victimizer.

It was about sundown of a beautiful evening in the early autumn of 1865, that the aristocratic
lawyer first beheld the lady with whom he was to become so insanely infatuated. But slightly
advanced in the thirties, the widow of a leading officer of the Confederate Army Medical Staff,
and formerly a leading Baltimore belle, she was a fascinating and beautiful woman, when meeting
the lawyer that evening on Fifth avenue, near Delmonico's old place, she met Fate. It seems
to have been a mutual infatuation--a case of love at first sight, and in a moment of delirium,
under an impulse which was perhaps uncontrollable, she sacrificed her virtue and her self-respect.

The story of her infatuation reads like the distempered dream of an opium-eater. It was a case
of fervent love on both sides. They met on the avenue, looked, spoke and, without more ado,
proceeded to Delmonico's to sup. The amour thus begun soon assumed a romantic intensity. When
she left the city, he dispatched ridiculously "spoony" telegrams to her in Baltimore, and in
his daily letters indulged in a maudlin sentimentality that might have inspired the envy of
a sighing Strephon in his teens.

During the summer of 1866, while his wife was in the country, he brought his Baltimore inamoretta
to New York, and established her in his splendid mansion on the Avenue. With an impudence and
infatuation perfectly astounding in so shrewd a man, he took no pains to conceal his conquest.
Jauntily would he pace down Broadway with her on his arm in the morning, and in the evening
she would be in waiting to accompany him home.

Tidings of this open liaison reached the lawyer's wife in her retreat among the Vermont hills,
and she promptly came to New York and dislodged the mistress pro tem. Relatives of the infatuated
widow also appeared at this juncture and strongly urged her to conquer her mad infatuation,
while a like appeal was made to the lawyer. But he was deaf to reason. He refused to give up
his idol, and the widow declared her intention, to use her own language, "of sticking to him
as long as he had a button on his coat."

Time sped on. The lawyer's passion began to be exhausted, and the unending insistence of her's
began to excite his repugnance. In the latter part of 1867, the lawyer began to realize the
force of this philosophy. The amorous widow was then boarding at the Metropolitan Hotel, and
he began to take the initiatory steps to be rid of her. After two years of madness, during
which she had sacrificed the respect of every relative she had, including her own daughter,
a pretty girl in her teens, it was hardly likely that he would evince the moral courage to
declare openly and straightforward to her that their relations must end. On the contrary, he
invoked the aid of three lawyers--two of them her own cousins, the other bearing an historic
name--to kidnap and spirit her out of the city. First they forcibly conveyed her to police
headquarters. Then, in spite of tears and protestations, she was kept all night in a dark room.
Her screams and entreaties might have moved a heart of stone, but they were unavailing. In
the morning she saw Superintendent Kennedy, and demanded the cause of the outrage. He informed
her that she had been brought there on a charge of being insane about the lawyer. A physician
was summoned, and by his direction, after he had submitted her to an examination, she was sent
back to her hotel. During the same afternoon, the lawyer called and emphatically denied having
had any hand in her contemplated imprisonment, and secured her release, conveniently imputing
the conspiracy to the jealousy of his wife.

Meantime, however, the lawyer and his fellow-accomplices of the law were plotting to get the
wretched woman placed in some private asylum. Bloomingdale and Flushing asylums were full,
and as she continued to follow her whilom lover and importune him to visit her, he found it
politic and convenient to renew his attentions and to feign a revival of his passion. In a
certain sense, he was to be pitied. Love of this kind begins as a gift; but a woman of this
temperament does not leave it so. She promptly turned it into a debt, and the more she loved
the debtor, the more oppressively and inexorably did she extort the uttermost penny from him.
About this time she was introduced to an eminent medical specialist in mental diseases, who,
by some inexplicable means, was induced to give a certificate of her insanity. Then her cousins
took her before a justice, and swore that she was an indigent lunatic, upon which showing the
court issued an order of committal to an asylum. A few days before her contemplated abduction,
the lawyer induced her to board at the Astor House, and on the morning of February 26, 1868,
he being engaged in the Federal court, while she was leisurely sauntering along Broadway looking
for him, as was her wont, she was suddenly seized by three hired ruffians, hustled into a carriage,
gagged and driven rapidly up-town to Central Park, when the bandage was removed from her mouth.
For four mortal hours she was driven about the park in the company of her brutal captors, and
afterward placed on board the afternoon train for Albany at the old Hudson River depot. "All
along the road," as she subsequently told the writer, "I implored the conductor to furnish
me with paper and pencil so that I might telegraph to New York, but it was only when we reached
the end of the journey that he did so. I gave him money to pay for the dispatch, but he probably
never sent it. When I reached Utica I was placed in a pretty bad ward, and when the physician,
Dr. Kellogg, saw me he went and reported to Dr. Gray, the director of the place. When he came
up he said I must not be treated so, and I was at once removed to the well ward; I remained
there two weeks, when I was discharged." Yes, she was discharged, and was received with crocodile
congratulations by the lawyer and one of her lawyer cousins, and triumphantly, as it were,
transported back to New York.

She was now placed in elegant apartments in the Hoffman House, and her lawyer lover resumed
his visits as formerly. During the summer she went to the country at his expense, and when,
in September, 1868, she returned to the city, he finally ceased to visit her. She was frantic
with disappointment, and her insane infatuation led her into all manner of indelicate demonstrations.
She dogged him in the streets; she followed him into court and interrupted him in his pleadings.
Sometimes she sat on the stoop of his elegant mansion all night. Once she dressed herself as
a soldier, and tried to gain access to him. Frequently she waylaid him, and sunk upon the pavement
in real or assumed paroxysmal fits when he approached. There were other demonstrations that
no decent pen could describe, except in a medical book for purposes of science. Naturally the
unfortunate lawyer was driven to the brink of desperation, and at this time he never went out
of doors without being accompanied by two detectives to protect him from her indelicate approaches.

On November 16, 1868, he caused her to be arrested for disorderly conduct and thrown into the
Tombs. The lawyer with the historic name appeared against her, and, to use her own language,
"without any examination, I was committed by Judge Dowling." Her gentle bearing and lady-like
address again stood her good stead, however, and in a few days she was released.

She now consulted the late James T. Brady, the greatest lawyer who ever practiced at the American
bar, and after listening carefully to her statement, he promised to see her "righted." Pending
legal action that eminent advocate died, and in the beginning of February, 1869, she took the
opinion of Edwin James, the English barrister, and a suit was immediately instituted against
her whilom lawyer lover in the Court of Common Pleas, damages being laid at $100,000. When
the defendant received notice of the suit he hastened to see Mr. James, and during several
conversations offered any reasonable compromise to procure a stay of proceedings. The lady's
version of the suit and the subsequent negotiations is as follows: "The suit was never placed
on the calendar. It was arranged with Mr. James to allow the case to proceed a certain length
and then obtain a release. Mr. James got no retainer, but took my case on speculation, with
the understanding that he was to have one thousand dollars at the end of the suit, if there
were any proceeds from the same. He continuously urged me to go to Europe with my daughter
for two years, and they would advance the money; but I declined. An order was obtained by the
defendant's lawyer to examine me; whereupon Mr. James advised me to leave the city in order
to avoid the examination. On my return Mr. James advised me to release the suit on the payment
of a certain sum by the defendant, he, the defendant, at the same time to make an apology for
what he had done and to express regret for my sufferings."

Accordingly, on May 27, 1868, she wrote a letter by advice of her counsel, authorizing him
to withdraw the suit on these conditions, and early in June she signed a "general release,"
professing afterwards to be entirely ignorant of the nature of the instrument. Indeed the unhappy
woman cared more for an expression of regret from her enslaver than for any pecuniary solace,
and she received no money, although her lawyer did, when the general release was signed. When
she discovered the nature of the instrument she was extremely indignant and demanded from Mr.
James the telegrams and letters in his possession which had been sent to her by her worshiper
in the heyday of their passion. The lawyer hesitated and delayed, and finally, being pressed
by a friend and kinsman of the unhappy lady, said, "I won't give them up unless I have an order
from the court." Subsequently he claimed that he had destroyed these tell-tale documents, and
that the "general release" authorized the proceedings.

She now consulted another law firm, but her case came to nothing, and meantime her former adorer,
now grown fiercely hostile, instituted proceedings in the Supreme Court, for the purpose of
procuring a perpetual injunction to forever restrain her from harassing him with such suits.
This was in 1870, in the early days of March, when the writer saw her last, and conversed with
her on her wrongs. Her picture lives in his recollection yet: The soft, large brown eyes, half
sad and half voluptuous in their tenderness; the soft, pleading face, with a refinement--even
a sort of nobleness--that had outlived the sacrifice of her virtue and reputation. To the last
she was a lady of extreme sweetness of manner, and a fascinating and interesting conversationalist.

Another notable man, now also a member of the "great majority"--a renowned Shakespearean critic,
author and censor in the domain of belles-lettres--brought great trouble and humiliation upon
himself by an amour with a ridiculously plain-looking and by no means young woman. He had naturally,
perhaps, a penchant in that direction, for on the appearance of the Lydia Thompson troupe of
original British blondes in this city, he wrought himself into a fervor of passionate folly
over the statuesque Markham, and designated her in his Erosian outpourings as "she of the vocal
velvet voice." There may have been some excuse for this passing delirium, and many others were
touched by it, Pauline Markham was a singularly beautiful girl, and she never looked so well
as when she sang; it sent warmth into her lips and took the hardness from her face. But the
lady with whom he became involved in a scrape, with the attendant litigation, payment of damages,
danger of publicity and total ruin of reputation in the exclusive places where his character
was respected and his judgment esteemed, was in every respect different from the lady of burlesque
opera. Bitterly did he regret his follies, for the facts were given to a newspaper famous for
its sensations, and the great littérateur was compelled literally to go down on his marrow
bones to induce the editor to withhold the particulars of his seduction of the lady from publication.
The sword of Damocles was suspended for weeks, during which the high-toned censor's condition
was sometimes pitiable to see. His entreaties finally carried the point, and the case became
one of those scandals of the existence of which the public never dreams.

The revelations not long since published in the London Pall Mall Gazette revealed fashionable
aristocratic depravity in the British metropolis in a shamefully disreputable light, and disclosed
the services of the professional procuress in all their repulsive loathsomeness. Although we
do not possess titled libertines at elegant leisure here, there can be no manner of doubt that
the procuress plies her vocation among us, and thrives on a liberally perennial patronage.
Whatever may be her characteristics in other respects, she is invariably an elegantly-dressed
woman, with persuasive address, suave speech and attractive mien. In most cases procuresses
possess houses of their own, where they procure desirable ladies for their patrons. Sometimes
these establishments are termed "Introducing houses," and, as may be imagined, are exceedingly
lucrative to their proprietors. Sometimes ladies are boarded and lodged in the house; but they
are usually "independent," or, in other words, living under the protection of some patron of
the establishment. Some of these procuresses possess a list of ladies whom they can send a
messenger for on demand. Take the case of a well-known establishment in one of the most fashionable
quarters up-town, for example:

A wealthy broker, speculator, or attache of Uncle Sam, calls upon the lady of the house at
a fashionable afternoon hour, orders wine, and enters into conversation about indifferent matters,
until he is able delicately to broach the subject he has in view. He explains that he wishes
to meet with a quiet lady, whose secrecy he can rely upon, and whom he can trust in every possible
way. He intimates his preference for an elegantly-formed, young and fairly good-looking acquaintance,
and would like her, in addition, to be vivacious, witty and a little gay. The lady of the house
listens complacently, and replies that she is acquainted with a lady who will suit him to a
nicety, and offers to send a message for her at once, if he wishes; but he must take his chance
of her being at home. Should she be out, she intimates an appointment will be made for next
day. In the meantime, a messenger is dispatched to the lady in question, and more wine is ordered
and drank. When the lady arrives, the introduction takes place, and the business is transacted,
as far as the procuress is concerned. Sometimes the gentleman pays the professional fee, and
sometimes the lady gives half the money she receives from the patron to the madame of the house.

Not infrequently these procuresses will write to men of means of their acquaintance, informing
them in some cipher or slang phrase that they have a new importation in their house awaiting
eligible disposition. Large sums are often paid under such circumstances, and the fresh importation
is usually sold in this way five or six times. In other words, she is represented as a maid
and imposed upon men as a virgin; which fabrication, as it is difficult to disprove, is believed,
more especially if the girl herself be well instructed.

To the house up-town, to which reference has been made above, both married and unmarried ladies
repair, in order to meet with and be introduced to gentlemen. This sort of clandestine meeting
is greatly on the increase in New York, as it is also in Paris and in London. Some curious
facts have come to us in a professional way, to which we can only refer in a general manner
here. The following is a case in point:

A brilliant and handsome lady, belonging to the best society in Gotham, married to a man of
wealth, found herself unhappy in his society, and after some time unwillingly came to the conclusion
that she had formed an alliance that was destined to make her miserable. Her passions were
naturally strong and her education had not been of the kind calculated to enable her to control
them. She had been, pampered and petted, and had been accustomed to have every desire gratified.
One day the name of the "Introduction-house" madame came up in conversation at a lady friend's
house, and the naughtiness of the topic was discussed with the freedom characteristic of progressive
society ladies, safe from intrusive masculine ears. A few days after, she ordered a cab and
drove to the house in question. She was received with empressement, and informed that it was
not necessary to explain the nature of her business. That, she was assured, was understood.
She was shown into a handsome drawing-room, elegantly furnished and upholstered, and requested
to wait a few minutes.

After waiting, in uneasy suspense, a little time, the door opened and a gentleman entered.
The heavy curtains of the windows and the thick blinds caused only a "dim, religious light"
to pervade the apartment, preventing the lady from seeing distinctly the features of her visitor.
He approached her with well-bred politeness, and, in a low tone of voice, began a conversation
with her about the beautiful weather New York was then enjoying. She listened for a brief moment,
and then, with a cry of astonishment, recognized her husband's voice. He, equally confused,
discovered that he had accidentally met in a house of ill-fame the wife whom he had sworn to
love and honor, but whom he had condemned to languish at home while he enjoyed himself abroad.
This remarkable rencontre had a happy termination, for, after a little legal sparring, it ended
in the reconciliation of husband and wife, who mutually admitted that they were both to blame.

The vile practices, the monstrous impudence, the cruel rapacity and enormous gains of the obscene
tribe of quacks, together with the mischief they do, and the ruin they work, would require
much more space to adequately ventilate than we can devote to it here. The healing art is a
noble one, and duly qualified men, interested in their profession, are public benefactors;
but the despicable race of charlatans not only rob their victims, but frequently ruin their
health, and drive them to the verge of insanity. There is probably hardly a reader of this
page who has not met, within the circle of his or her acquaintance, some unfortunate individual
whose hopes in life have been wholly or partially blighted by the adroitly-worded insinuations
of those advertising quacks. We all know that "fools are the game that knaves pursue," and
no well-informed member of the community needs to be informed that the victims captured by
quack advertisements are not among the wiser portion of the community. Many of them, however,
lie open to be allured into the quack's net, not by mere congenital and absolute folly, but
because of the inexperience of youth or lack of knowledge of the world, or perhaps in some
cases from a natural deficiency in the faculty of deciphering characteristic expression. There
are some who fail to recognize a quack advertisement when it meets their eye, from a defect
in perception similar to that which incapacitates certain persons from distinguishing a pocket-book
dropper, or a bunco steerer, or a billiard sharp, or a sporting "gent."

Of course, there are degrees and varieties of quacks, as well as in the character of their
announcements. The street-vender of a "magic pain-reliever," who, by dint of talk and manipulation,
convinces some credulous sufferer that his rheumatism is banished, is a quack. So are those
who advertise such preparations as sarsaparilla, blood-mixtures, and a variety of pills, potions
and lozenges too numerous to mention. So also are those marvelous discoverers of "hair restorers,"
"removers of freckles," and so on. Most of these do little harm beyond lightening the purses
of the purchasers, and in some cases the administration of an inert substance, by exciting
the victim's imagination, produces a cure. But the great injury, so far as these innoxious
preparations are concerned, lies in the fact that they prevent the sufferer from seeking proper
professional treatment. Still this class of quacks is rather to be reckoned among swindlers
who obtain money under false pretences, than among the bona fide medical quacks that we have
in view. The great aim of this pernicious class is to get people in fair, ordinary health to
consult them by means of newspaper advertisements, almanacs, pamphlets and circulars filled
with details of the character and symptoms of various diseases, scattered broadcast through
the land. We will not contaminate our pages in giving samples in extenso of this prurient and
abominable literature, but a few of the typical advertisements to be met in even respectable
newspapers, can hardly be omitted if the exposure is to be thorough:

*MEN ONLY*. A quick, Permanent Cure for Lost Manhood, Disability, Nervousness and Weakness.
No Quackery.

*TO WEAK MEN,*
Suffering from nervous debility, weakness of body and mind, loss of
memory, mental and physical exhaustion. On receipt of stamp we will send
you a valuable treatise upon the above diseases, also directions for
home-cure.        Address
                         * * * * * *

*ANY PART OF THE BODY* when deprived of growth, weak and undeveloped, lacking in proper size,
form and vigor, may be enlarged, developed and strengthened by simple scientific self-treatment.
We will prove this free to any honest person. Write for sealed circulars, description, references.

NERVOUS DEBILITATED MEN. You are allowed a free trial of thirty days of the use of -------'s
Celebrated Voltaic Belt with Electric Suspensory Appliances, for the speedy relief and permanent
cure of nervous debility, loss of vitality and manhood, and all kindred troubles. Also for
many other diseases. Complete restoration to health, vigor and manhood guaranteed. No risk
is incurred. Illustrated pamphlet in sealed envelope mailed free by addressing Voltaic Belt Co.

NERVOUS DEBILITY, weakness of body and mind, loss of memory, nervous and
physical exhaustion permanently and quickly cured. I will send you a
valuable treatise upon the above diseases, also directions for
home-cure, free of charge.
        Address        * * * * * *

*WEAK MEN* Can be promptly and lastingly cured, secretly and without nauseous drugging, by
the FRENCH HOSPITAL TREATMENT. Board of six regular physicians. Consultation free. Full restoration
to vigor and strength, however lost.

The list of lewd and brazen manifestoes might be indefinitely extended, but as they all bear
the same disgusting ear-marks, the foregoing must suffice. As for the pamphlets sent through
the mails in "sealed envelopes" by these harpies, the following titles will sufficiently indicate
their character: "The Friend in Need;" "A Medical Work on Marriage;" "The Tonic Elixir;" "The
Silent Friend;" "Manhood;" "A Cure for All;" "The Self Cure of Nervous Debility;" "The Self-adjusting
Curative;" "New Medical Guide;" "Debility, its Cause and Cure;" "A Warning Voice;" "Second
Life," and scores of others of a similar stamp. This disgusting literature corrupts and pollutes
the mind and morals of a large class of people who have not the courage to disbelieve its monstrous
exaggerations, or the good sense to despise its revolting indecencies. Nor is this strange,
when we reflect that the reading of even a standard medical work has a tendency to excite belief
in the reader that he is afflicted with the malady whose grim description he is perusing. His
apprehension being alarmed and his imagination excited, he has no difficulty in detecting all
or a great many of the symptoms in himself, although at the same time none of them may exist.
The quack, in his advertisements and publications, frequently warns the reader against quacks
and quackery, as, for instance, take the following cheeky extract:

"The object in writing these pages is to teach the public at large to discriminate between
the legitimate, duly-qualified practitioner and the legion of charlatans who infest every important
city and town of the United States, and particularly New York. That this is a subject of the
gravest importance cannot for a moment be doubted when it is considered that, dating from our
entrance into the world, 'from the cradle to the grave,' we too often require the valuable
services of the accoucheur, doctor, surgeon, or physician, in consequence of departing from
Nature's laws, increased state of civilization, and overtaxed condition of the mental and bodily
systems, necessitating from time to time the knowledge and attendance of the medical man. Under
these circumstances it behooves each individual to be placed on his guard, so as to be made
cognizant of the means to detect the nefarious, unqualified, and dishonest charlatans, in order
to save the one in search of health from falling in their meshes, and thus jeopardize the welfare
of his nearest and dearest objects. The laws of the country, public opinion, and private information,
have and are doing much to save the reputations of those who have made choice of the medical
profession, thereby exposing themselves to be placed on a level with some with whose names
we will not soil our pages, nor indirectly offer the advantages of publicity, for it has well
been remarked that to be mentioned with disparagement is to these preferable to not being mentioned
at all, and thus it very often happens that the veil to hide a motive is so flimsy that even
the uninitiated are unable to catch a glimpse at the mystery within."

Here are the strains of another disinterested Mentor in the same field, who once had an office
on West Twenty-second street in New York City:

"Country patients are informed that they can have the necessary remedies sent to any address,
or directed to be left at an Express Office till called for, in a portable compass. The medicines
are carefully packed, and free from observation; and may be taken without confinement or any
restraint. Patients should be as minute as possible in the details of their symptoms, age,
general habits of living and occupation in life. The Communication must be accompanied by the
usual CONSULTATION FEE OF FIVE DOLLARS, which may be sent in bank note, or by Post-office order,
without which no notice can be taken of the application. In all cases secrecy is to be considered
as inviolable, all letters being, if requested, either returned to the writers, or destroyed.

"Dr.---- begs to impress upon patients the importance of ONE personal interview, even when
resident at a distance. The advantages are manifold, when compared with mere correspondence.
A single visit will, in most cases, enable Dr.---- to form an instantaneous and accurate judgment,
and thus expedite the patient's recovery. In the first place, many important questions affecting
the patient are likely to be suggested by a personal interview, which might be lost sight of
in correspondence. Secondly, more correct diagnosis of the disorder and a better appreciation
of the patient's constitution can be arrived at, whilst a microscopic examination of the urine,
where necessary, will render any mistake impossible, especially in cases of Spermatorrhœa.
And thirdly, where the patient is laboring under urethral discharges, which may or may not
be produced by impure connection, one personal visit with a view to a urinary examination is
eminently advantageous. In a word, the correspondent will be more than repaid for the trouble
and expense of his journey by the increased rapidity of the cure. * * * * * * * *

"Such patients, although they may be reaping the rewards of their own folly, are, nevertheless,
the very ones who have special need of correct counsel, and are, for the most part, in just
the frame of mind to appreciate advice fitly rendered by a judicious medical man. In my experience,
it has always appeared strange to me why the treatment of this affection should remain abandoned
by respectable members of the profession to the benefit of quacks and those vile harpies who
play on this class of victims.

"Medical men are too apt treat the complaints of such patients lightly, making no effort to
allay their anxiety--a course which often leads them to apply for aid in illegitimate quarters,
and to become the victims of unprincipled men."

In some instances it is a clergyman who is the reputed advertiser, who, as in the following
unabridged "Ad," widely circulated in the country papers, wishes to communicate to suffering
humanity "the recipe that will cure you free of charge":

*A Card.* To all who an suffering from the errors and indiscretions of youth, nervous weakness,
early decay, loss of manhood, etc., I will lend a recipe that will cure you, FREE OF CHARGE.
This great remedy was discovered by a missionary in South America. Send a self-addressed envelope
to the Rev. * * * * Station D, New York City.

Then there are the "Retired Philanthropic Physicians," and the "Patients Who have been Cured,"
et hoc genus omne, who, with such rare disinterestedness, incur large weekly expenses in advertising
their willingness to forward to sufferers the means of self-cure "on receipt of two postage
stamps." In a word, one and all of these pirates have only one common aim and aspiration--to
fleece the fools who are credulous enough to seek their aid.

The main point to attain in this business is to decoy the victim to the advertiser's den or
office. Once there, he is impressed with the multifarious engagements of the human decoy-spider
who is probably appraising his prey through a peep-hole. By and by, the patient's anxiety is
dissipated by the appearance of the pretended Medicus, and he proceeds to give all the painful
details of his case, while the listener, by looks and words, does everything to increase his
alarm. The history finished, questions will be asked him as to his avocations, position and
income, all apparently with the view of elucidating the points of his case, but in fact for
the purpose of estimating the "size of his pile," with the object of ascertaining to what extent
he can be "bled." This essential information obtained, the quack at once sets his moral rack
to work. Everything will be said not only to confirm the patient's fears, but to increase them.
A pretended examination of urine will be made, and he will be gravely told that the quack's
worst fears are confirmed, ocular demonstration being offered the dupe. The effect of this
ordeal may be imagined. The unfortunate victim believes that he has received "confirmation,
strong as proof of holy writ," of his dangerous condition. Glibly the quack discourses on the
consequences of neglecting the terrible symptoms, and the great difficulty of combating them.
He is told that he will be liable to spinal disease, softening of the brain, or insanity. Sometimes
a collection of plates, containing hideous representations of dreadful eruption, and sores
covering all parts of the body, are submitted to the patient's horrified inspection. Frightened
by the hideous pictures before him, and at the same time soothed and charmed by the high-flown
encomiums which the quack pronounces on his particular "non-mercurial mode of treatment," the
patient becomes anxious to submit himself to the process. The quack is equally ready to take
the case in hand, and the only stumbling-block likely to be in the way, may be the patients'
inability to pay the large fee demanded. When the victim, however, is manifestly pecunious,
the remedy employed in the treatment is correspondingly expensive. In some cases "a preparation
of gold" has been used, and the patient has been instructed that it would be absolutely necessary
for him to remain in bed for the six weeks during which he would have to take the remedies,
and that he must have a nurse to sit up with him at night, in order to wake him and give him
the medicines regularly!

We presume no intelligent person need be told that the pretensions as to the "golden" and other
"secret and valuable medicines" which these quacks boast themselves to possess, are absolutely
without foundation. They no more possess such remedies than they possess any legitimate right
to the names and medical titles which they too frequently assume.

In cases of indiscretion, the quack treatment is always with mercury--notwithstanding denials.
Sometimes serious mercurial poisoning results, and not unfrequently, through the charlatan's
ignorance of proper treatment in complicated diseases, irreparable injury ensues.

The quack advertisements and pamphlets are the source of incalculable evils to youths between
the ages of seventeen and thirty. They are impelled by fear to visit the quack's den, where
they are "played" as long as practicable. Sometimes exciting drugs, like cantharides, are given
in the medicine, and thus intensify the evil. The quack, of course, ascribes the result to
the patient's alarming condition, who is growing worse, in spite of his medicines, and who
can only be cured by more powerful and costly drugs. Sometimes a seemingly candid but equally
misleading offer of "no cure no pay" is offered. In this case the patient is usually required
to sign a statement of his condition, in which his symptoms and his previous bad habits are
fully set forth. It is stipulated that the "doctor" is to be paid a certain round sum when
a cure is effected, and while the case is under treatment the patient pays for the medicines.
If no pay is asked for the "stuff," the quack is seldom or ever a loser. Such a document few
persons, with characters to lose, would care to run the risk of publishing, and hence they
generally acknowledge themselves cured, or pay the doctor handsomely to redeem the document.

While wading through this dark morass of deception and fraud, the "anatomical museums" must
not be overlooked. These Priapean establishments, in which is an exhibition of wax models of
different organs and parts of the human body, are too vile for description. "Lectures" are
delivered with the design of furnishing patients to the quack practitioners in whose interest
the place is run. Thousands--we might have said millions--of copies of disgusting little books
on "Marriage," or the "Philosophy of Marriage," or some cognate obscenity are distributed gratis,
and it is no unusual sight to see a score of nervous, hollow-eyed patients waiting for treatment.

We have endeavored to speak plainly and to the point in dealing with quacks and quackery, because
it is a topic of sovereign importance and urgency. Hundreds upon hundreds of our population
are plundered and poisoned by these medical pests of society, and if we have not made it plain
that it is dangerous to have anything to do with the advertising doctors of New York or any
other place, we have failed in our purpose. Their advertisements, their pamphlets, and their
rascally little books, penetrate the remotest corners of the land. Curiosity leads the farmer's
son or the apprentice to send for some advertised book to satisfy a craving for information,
or to pander to an already diseased imagination, and the bad seed is sown. He is surprised,
startled, and finally alarmed; and he writes. He is told in the reply that "I seek my remedies
in far-off climes; some in the distant prairie, some in the ever-blooming balsam; in the southern
climes, where eternal summer reigns, and on the top of the snow-clad Himalayas." Accompanying
the reply is a recipe calling for articles having no existence, or for decoctions from plants
unknown to botanists. But in whatever form the response comes, the result is uniform. Plunder,
always plunder, in the first place; sometimes this is supplemented by murder; whole families
are destroyed, insanity is engendered, and the victims of these vile knaves are driven headlong
to destruction and an early grave.

It has always been the dearest wish of a quack doctor to possess a diploma of some sort, no
matter where or how dishonestly procured. Sometimes it was forged; sometimes second-hand; but
however or wherever procured it was framed and conspicuously displayed in the "consulting"
room. By the recent and entirely wholesome amendment of the law, however, those beguiling documents
are no longer available. It is now imperative that the certificate of every physician must
be filed with the County Clerk. Until this provision is observed, no doctor--no matter how
eminent or well-qualified--can practice in New York. Many a quack, flourishing like a green
bay-tree, was summarily brought to the "end of his tether," by this most wise legislative enactment.

We would be derelict to the duty we owe to the public did we not here, and in this connection,
state our emphatic opinion that the editors and proprietors of newspapers, as a rule, have
hitherto looked too leniently on this subject of quackery and its baleful announcements. Happily
some of our journals will not publish such advertisements, and no editor can excuse himself
by saying that he is ignorant of the character of such announcements. It must be known to every
man of experience that such advertisements are unfit for the perusal of young men or women,
and it is surprising that the heads of families should permit newspapers containing those advertisements
to enter their houses. As a well-known English author some-time since wrote:

"It is pregnant with matter for grave reflection, and this not only in reference to patients
themselves, but also in regard to the reprehensible conduct of parents who so recklessly admit
into their family circle newspapers which insert the obscene advertisements of the quacks.
As I have said before, these advertisements are traps for their sons and an offense to the
modesty of their daughters. Well assured am I that many cases of unaccountable suicide in youths
and young men, which cause so much surprise and misery in families, are due to these unfortunates
having become the dupes of quacks."

This is a very terrible picture of the evil wrought through the abuse of the advertising columns
of the press, but experience has shown us that it is not by any means overdrawn. The responsibility
of the health and comfort--even of the lives--of many of the rising generation thus rests with
the newspapers. How careful, then, ought publishers to be that the columns of their journals
should in nowise assist in disseminating that which pollutes the minds of the young, renders
them unfit to fulfill the duties of society, or to enjoy its pleasures, and, in short, makes
their whole life a burden and a misery.

CHAPTER XVI.

ABORTION AND THE ABORTIONISTS.

 The Career of Madame Restell--Rosensweig's Good Luck.

Love's young dream--the dream of the ages--has sometimes a fearful awakening. In her "guileless
trust" and unsuspecting ignorance, a young woman weaves a light web of folly and vain hopes,
which one day closes around her like a poisoned garment, instantly changing all her fluttering
raptures into a wail of the deepest human anguish. All at once the whole force of her nature
is concentrated in the effort of concealment, and she shrinks with irresistible dread from
every course that would tend to unveil her miserable secret. Overshadowed by a misfortune that
is worse than death, in her half-benumbed mental condition, she hears of the professional abortionist,
and braces herself for one of those convulsive actions by which a betrayed woman will sometimes
leap from a temporary sorrow into the arms of Death.

The dark crime of abortion abounds in New York, as it does in all great cities. Yet this crime
is conducted with so much care that rarely a case comes to light. Even when one of these ghouls
is arrested and put on trial it is but seldom that conviction follows, because it is an offense
extremely difficult to bring home to the perpetrator. Many indictments, for inexplicable causes,
from time to time have been pigeon-holed; but as the transaction is committed in private, the
victim is the only witness, and she is naturally averse to exposure.

It is only when the remains of some beautiful victim are found packed in a box, or jammed into
a barrel, that the imagination realizes the imminent peril dishonored women incur by trusting
themselves to the mercy of those sordid butchers. The author of her wrong usually makes the
arrangement, under cover. The wily practitioner talks blandly and soothingly. If the operation
succeeds, all is well; if not, the poor victim's body is secretly disposed of. She is chronicled
among the mysterious disappearances, because every precaution had been taken that her friends
should know nothing whatever of her condition, or of her whereabouts.

Naturally, the practice of child-murder hardens the hearts and petrifies the feelings of those
systematically engaged in it. The tortures inflicted on the patient are, no doubt, in many
cases unavoidable if the end is to be achieved; but many of these operators are cruelly ignorant
and unscrupulous, and barbarously brutal and reckless. The mind shrinks from contemplating
the thrilling honors of some of the scenes enacted within those deadened walls. Despite the
tears and protestations of the suffering woman, the operation will sometimes be repeated two
or even three times. But helpless and unprotected as she is, she is compelled to submit, because
she is terrorized by her inquisitor's threats to send her to some hospital at once, to expose
her condition to the world and to die.

When death appears only too probable, the abortionist generally has the victim either sent
to a hospital or to some regular physician's premises, and leaving her before her condition
or their connection with the case has been discovered. If the death occurs on their own premises,
a certificate from some doctor called in at the fast moment, and deceived as to the cause of
death, may enable a quiet little funeral to take place. And again, the fact cannot be denied
that from time to time regular, diplomated physicians have been found who would not hesitate,
for a consideration, to give "crooked" certificates. Should it be found impracticable to dispose
of the body in such a convenient and regular way, in some cases it is shipped by rail to a
distant and fictitious address, without any clue by which it can be traced back to the "shipper."

The pitiable case of Miss Alice Augusta Bowlsby will occur to many readers just here. The facts
in her case were simply these: One Saturday night towards the end of August, 1871, a trunk
containing the remains of a young and beautiful female was found at the depot of the Hudson
River Railroad, checked for Chicago. The remains were subsequently recognized as those of Miss
Bowlsby of Paterson, New Jersey, and the trunk was traced, by means of the truckman employed
to carry it, back to the residence of Dr. Jacob Rosenzweig. It was soon discovered that the
death of the unhappy girl was caused by an operation tending to produce abortion. Rosenzweig
was a burly fellow, with a forbidding aspect, and a bold, confident look. His large, bullet
eyes looked defiantly from behind the deep-intrenched line of wrinkles that care or conscience
had gradually drawn around them. He had, in fact, a forbidding aspect, and when he was placed
on trial before Recorder Hackett, according to a newspaper reporter present,

"one eye was devoted to watching the Grecian bend of his vulture-hooked nose, while the other
was on duty over a precocious lock of his curling red hair, which clung to the verandah of
his left ear like a Virginia creeper."

Rosenzweig was convicted of manslaughter while treating a woman for abortion, and was sentenced
to state prison for seven years--a sentence so obviously out of proportion to the enormity
of the crime that a howl of public indignation went up to the skies. However, Recorder Hackett
had awarded the utmost penalty of the then existing law, and Rosenzweig was sent to Sing Sing.
Soon after, a law was enacted by the state legislature, making the penalty of crimes like Rosenzweig's
twenty years in the state prison, with hard labor. After this law was passed, and when the
abortionist had served about a year of his sentence, another charge of abortion was found against
him, and he was brought down the river, again put on trial and sentenced. Mr. Howe, for his
defense, in appeal, raised the natural objection that it was unfair and improper to try Rosenzweig
in two cases at once. Consequently, he got a new trial, in which he was acquitted, because
the old law under which he had been previously convicted had been repealed. Here was a manifest
miscarriage of justice effected by a wise change in the laws. This prisoner escaped, but such
a result could hardly, within the range of possibility, occur under the same law again.

In the majority of cases, the victims of abortion are gotten rid of by the practitioner before
they die. The operation once over, they are hurried from the premises with all possible dispatch,
even though the fatigue and exposure may imperil their lives. Many die a few days after reaching
home, in which case the name of the abortionist is never known, and many more linger for a
few months or years, mere physical wrecks of their former selves, till merciful Death folds
them in his leaden arms.

Before the recent laws were passed, making it a punishable offense to offer to produce abortions,
either by medicine or instruments, there were many nostrums, in the form of pills and powders,
covertly advertised for the alleged purpose of producing miscarriages. When a person called
on one of those quacks and explained the purpose for which the medicine was needed, he was
told that it was very dear--from five, ten, to fifteen dollars a box. At the same time he would
be assured that his lady friend was merely suffering from "an obstruction arising from cold."
If he insisted on explaining, the hard face of the quack would grow darker and harder, and
a mysterious gleam of intelligence would shoot from the speculative eye as he was told:

"I will not sell medicine for anything else but a cold; nor will I treat any lady for anything
else. Your young friend has only taken cold, and if she is not relieved by these pills she
had better come and see me herself."

No doubt most of those medicines were deceptive, fraudulent and futile. But they had the intended
effect of advertising the person who sold them, whose "professional" services were generally
brought into request when the pills proved inoperative. This was the secret of Madame Restell's
reputation and immense accumulated fortune. Her occupation was that of a midwife, and in that
assumed capacity she advertised her "Female Pills." As all the world knows now, her real vocation
was the ante-natal destruction of unwelcome babies. To her gorgeous palace at the corner of
Fifth avenue and Fifty-second street went for years some of the most wealthy and fashionable
women of this metropolis. It is a dreadful admission, and a sad commentary on our boasted civilization,
but the truth must be told. Some of her patrons were married ladies who, finding themselves
likely to become mothers, and being too heartless and frivolous to desire the pains and cares
of maternity, sought this woman's aid and, in some instances, paid her fabulous sums to have
their innocent offspring destroyed before they saw the light. Others who sought her services
were unmarried girls, who, having sacrificed their honor were prepared to pay any price to
conceal their shame, by the destruction of the little life which would blazon it to the world.

Madame Restell's clients were all, or nearly all women of the higher orders of society, and
of liberal means. Of this disgraceful fact there can be no manner of doubt. Her scale of charges
was so extravagant as to positively prohibit her employment by any one unable to pay a handsome
fee for the gratification of their murderous project. Sometimes a poor girl, ruined by some
wealthy libertine, would be supplied by him with funds to pay for the terrible operation which
would conceal her folly; but in the great majority of cases they were ladies of wealth and
social standing who went dressed in elegant apparel, loaded with jewelry, and double veiled,
to her palatial mansion to obtain her aid.

Madame Restell, whose name was a scandal and her Fifth-avenue house an outrage upon New York
for years, was a native of Painswick, Gloucestershire. She was the daughter of a humble laborer
named Trow, and first saw the light in 1813. Her educational facilities--as indeed were all
those similarly or even better circumstanced in England seventy years ago--were of the humblest
kind. But she was made to work, taught to use her needle, and "sent out to service" in her
early teens. And so it came to pass that, at the age of sixteeen, she was "maid of all work"
for a butcher in her native town. She was quite good-looking, with piercing black eyes and
thick, luxuriant black hair, and shapely form. She had many candidates for her young affections
among the young weavers of the place, but a journeyman tailor named Henry Somers was the successful
wooer. A year or two after the wedding, Mr. and Mrs. Somers emigrated and came to the city
of New York, settling over on the east side, about Oliver street. Somers was lazy, improvident
and a tippler, and after a short sojourn in America Mrs. Somers found herself a young and blooming
widow, with one child, a girl, to provide for. She had all along industriously supplemented
her husband's earnings by her needle. She was now wholly dependent upon it for the subsistence
of herself and child.

It was while in these pinched circumstances that she made the acquaintance of Charles R. Lohman,
a printer poor as herself, and became his wife. There was no immediate improvement in their
condition. Both were impatient of the pinchings of poverty. Neither was constitutionally disposed
to work hard and patiently for an honest competence. The celebrated "Female Pills" formed the
philosopher's stone which released them from this condition of chafing discontent and brooding
unrest. From what source a knowledge of the ingredients requisite for the composition of a
pill for such a diabolical purpose was derived, or whether, indeed, the pill was effective
or diabolical at all, remains a mystery, inasmuch as none of her medicine seems to have been
subjected to chemical analysis. Suffice to say that the couple rented a small room, and the
first advertisement of the female physician was printed in the old Sun, and paid for with borrowed
money.

Under such auspices the abortion business dawned upon this city, and in more than one of the
daily newspapers, between the years 1836 and 1840, appeared glowing puffs of "the beautiful
young female physician," as she was termed, accompanied by elaborate advertisements setting
forth her specialty. No wonder this Upas tree flourished by the river of crime on whose banks
it was fed. No wonder that her brother Joseph, who had been imported from madame's native English
town, was kept busy in putting up medicines and compounds for the ladies of New York. No wonder
that the Lohmans, alias the Restells, waxed fat and insolent, or that, with only thirty years
actual existence, madame informed the public that she had been for "thirty years physician
in European hospitals"!

By and by her boldness attracted the attention of the Albany Solons, and in 1846 a law was
enacted which was intended to prevent the dark crime which Madame Restell had helped to make
so fashionable. In September, 1847, a minion of justice invaded her Gehenna, then at No. 146
Greenwich street, and, upon an affidavit, she was arrested and put in prison. On the tenth
of that month she was arraigned and, pleading "Not guilty," was sent back to jail to await
her trial. At this preliminary proceeding it appeared that Dr. Samuel C. Smith had been called
upon to attend professionally a young woman of Orange County, by the name of Mary Bodine, and,
upon discovering evidences of foul play, communicated with the Mayor of New York, and Madame
Restell's arrest followed. Public excitement rose to an intense pitch. A spasm of morality
shook the city to its foundations. Nothing was talked of but the hideous crimes of the woman
abortionist. People lost sight of the war, then raging in Mexico, while listening to the stories
of imaginative people about heaps of babies' skulls supposed to be mouldering beneath the floors
of the Greenwich-street Golgotha. There were threats of mob violence, and of incendiary proceedings.
It was necessary to guard the premises, and Lohman kept himself religiously secluded from public
observation.

On the twentieth of October, 1847, the abortionist was placed in the dock of the Court of General
Sessions, before Recorder Scott and two aldermen. For the prosecution there appeared Ogden
Hoffman, John McKeon and Jonas B. Phillips; for the defense, James T. Brady and David Graham,
Jr. The prisoner was charged in the indictment with manslaughter in the second degree. Considerable
difficulty was experienced in obtaining a jury. Mary Bodine, herself, was the first witness.
She described her engagement as a servant with a person of the name of Cook; her seduction
three days after entering upon her duties, and the consequences that followed her visit to
Madame Restell's establishment; the conversation that took place; her sojourn in an apartment
of the dreadful den; her diet and treatment, and all the revolting details were given with
a pre-Raphaelite sharpness of outline that carried the conviction of truth. It was a long trial,
and not before November 12th did the Recorder sum up, when the jury, after a brief retirement,
found the prisoner "Guilty."

She was sent to the penitentiary on Blackwell's Island, and popular excitement was allayed,
while the spasm of public morality, with a soft sigh, fell asleep. When Madame Restell's term
of imprisonment expired she came back to the city and, purchasing a new property on Chambers
street, hung out her "Midwife" shingle, and carried on her business with nearly as much effrontery,
and with quite as much success, as before her prosecution and sentence.

A craving for pomp and ostentation was one of the peculiar phases of Madame Restell's character.
To gratify this kind of ambition, she purchased, through a real estate agent, ten lots on Fifth
avenue, between Fifty-second and Fifty-third streets. They cost at that time $1,000 each--$10,000
for the ten. When it became known that this woman was the purchaser of the ten lots, a movement
was at once made by reputable citizens interested in the respectability of New York's leading
avenue to repurchase the property. Five thousand dollars were offered for her bargain without
avail. When, many years later, the horrified residents of the fashionable thoroughfare beheld
ground broken and the abortionist's mansion gradually raising its brazen front, their indignation
knew no bounds. Large sums of money were offered the woman to forego her intention, but she
haughtily answered that "there was not money enough in New York" to prevent her. No expense
was spared, either in the construction or decoration of this palace of infamy. The frescoed
ceilings were works of art. Two Italians worked at them for a twelve-month, at an expense of
twenty thousand dollars. The carpets and upholstery, ordered through the house of A. T. Stewart
& Co., were manufactured specially in Paris. The paintings were selected from the productions
of the greatest artists of the period. Her stable was erected at a cost of twenty-eight thousand
dollars. The Osborne House, another of her investments, erected on the ground adjoining her
own residence, cost about two hundred thousand dollars.

In February, 1878, evil days again fell upon Madame Restell. On the eleventh of that month
she was arrested by Anthony Comstock, of the Society for the Prevention of Crime, and taken
to Jefferson Market Police Court, before Justice Kilbretli. She desired her release upon bail,
pending examination. The bail was fixed at $10,000, and although she offered to deposit with
the court that amount in government bonds, Judge Kilbreth refused. Satisfactory bail not being
forthcoming, she was committed to the Tombs, and assigned to a cell on the second tier of the
women's prison. By and by, she was released on bail and, pending her trial, some time early
on the morning of April 1, 1878, she committed suicide, by cutting her throat from ear to ear,
in her bath-tub. The scene was described in that morning's Herald, as follows:

"Mme. Restell's chambermaid, Maggie McGraw, went to her mistress' room at about eight o'clock
this morning, but not finding her there she went to the bathroom, which is on the second floor.
There, hanging on the door, she saw her mistress' clothes. Thinking that she was taking a bath
the girl went down-stairs, but soon returned and, seeing the clothes still there, she looked
in. Not seeing the madame, she became alarmed. A peculiar smell then attracted her attention
and, looking in, she saw that the bath-tub was filled with bloody water, and at the bottom
of the tub lay the body of her mistress, with her throat cut from ear to ear. The instrument
of death, a large carving-knife, was lying at her side. The bath-room is fitted up with Oriental
splendor, being frescoed and decorated handsomely."

The suicide was buried next day, being conveyed from the Fifth-avenue mansion to the Grand
Central Depot, and thence to Tarrytown, the place of interment. The funeral procession consisted
merely of the hearse carrying the body and one carriage. It is a strange, revolting story,
carrying its own warning and moral, besides furnishing an admirable instance of the unexpected
forms in which the great Nemesis manifests herself.

A large proportion of the marital infelicity now so alarmingly prevalent in this country is
no doubt caused by the mal-administration of our divorce laws, and by the demoralizing discord
between the legislative statutes of the various States on the subject of divorce. While in
the middle and a portion of the Eastern and Southern States, the conditions legally imposed,
before a dissolution of marriage can be judicially obtained, are wholesomely exacting and in
accord with the strict Scriptural standard, in certain of the Eastern, Southern and Western
States the most trifling alleged causes of disagreement or "incompatibility" are sufficient
to secure the law's disseverance of the marriage tie. The divorce business of certain courts
in Illinois, Iowa, Utah, and some of the territories, enjoy an infamous notoriety all over
the world; while even staid old Connecticut offers a positive reward to connubial infidelity
by at once granting a full or absolute divorce upon comparatively slight pretexts, leaving
both parties legally free to marry again as their altered fancies may elect.

He who, in New York,

        "Reads the in image act with pride
        And fancies that the law is on his side,"

may soon be taught, to his dismay, that some backwood's court in the West has privately given
his artful better-half a divorce, and authorized her to wed at her earlier pleasure with the
Lothario whom he--the cast-off husband--had not even begun to suspect of treachery. Or, again
the lord and master whose preference has wandered from his lawful wife to some designing female
poacher on her rightful domain, may openly give that wife the fullest justification in law
for a New York divorce, and, after the petition has been granted, go with his paramour to any
State outside the jurisdiction of the State of New York, and there be legally joined to her
for whom he has forsworn himself. One might infer from these dangerous and disgraceful possibilities
that but few of the married ones who, from whatever cause, were discontented with their domestic
relations, would be long restrained by any other than the highest exceptional moral considerations
from availing themselves of the relief so variously attainable. It must be borne in mind, however,
that an honorable action for divorce, openly and honestly undertaken in any State, involves
more or less public exposure with considerable pecuniary outlay. These two considerations,
in the present lax tendencies of our divorce laws, constitute the chief bar against a wholesome
"popular" adoption of the legal remedy for domestic troubles; while their potency has invoked
a class of fraudulent practitioners whose insidious business it is to procure dissolution of
marriage for any or no cause, "without publicity," and at a cost suited to the most limited
means. In other words, New York has been, and still is, the headquarters of a villainous divorce
ring, by the audaciously fraudulent practices of which the solemn marital covenant is made
a despised and brittle toy of the law--to be broken and discarded at the will of the vicious
and depraved.

Lord Howell, for fifty years a judge of Doctor's Commons, pointedly said: "A knowledge that
persons uniting in marriage must continue husbands and wives, often makes them good husbands
and wives; for necessity is a powerful master to teach the duties it imposes."

The question may arise, and it is pertinent, who employ these divorce specialists? We answer:
All sorts of people.

Another question naturally arises: What are such divorces worth? We reply that the whole business
is unblushing fraud upon the dupes who are entrapped into patronizing the business. Not one
of those divorces has ever yet held good when ultimately contested in open court, by the parties
against whom they have been secretly obtained. Many of them, however--perhaps thousands!--have
served the whole purpose of those purchasing them, because the husbands or wives so cruelly
wronged have either lacked the means, or the heart to take public legal measures for exposing
the fraud, and setting the divorce aside. How is the poor clerk, or mechanic, the invalid or
unfriended wife, to raise hundreds, perhaps thousands, of dollars necessary for such a purpose?

It seldom happens that the so-called divorce specialist applies to any of the courts in the
States of New York, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Maryland or South Carolina, because in those
States the testimony given in divorce proceedings becomes part and parcel of the written court
record. The names, residences, and occupations of the witnesses, and all the testimony they
offer, is carefully taken down by the referee, and reported upon by him to the court. The judge
takes all the papers, and grants the decree or refuses it, upon the report and the testimony,
and the record is perpetually on file, and accessible. Consequently when a husband or wife
unexpectedly finds that their hymeneal bonds are severed, they have the right and privilege
of inspecting the record of the case, in the court archives, and of examining the evidence
upon which the decree adverse to them was granted. These are what is termed "dangerous States,"
in the parlance of the specialists; for there is always a chance of the disbanded mate feeling
aggrieved and pugnacious, and of the cat coming with portly stare from the bag with a lively
prospect of the perjured witnesses and the specialist having to "scoot" for parts unknown,
or run the risk of dignifying the inside of the State prison. Many readers of this page will
no doubt remember with what precipitation the notorious Monro Adams made himself "scarce" in
January, 1882, upon the discovery of the irregular Chase divorce, and others of the same kind
fraudulently procured in Brooklyn.

In the Western and Southwestern States, on the other hand, where the population is sparser,
and where no such press of business is before the courts, divorce proceedings are mostly under
the immediate control of the court itself. The presiding judge hears the testimony as it is
presented, and decides the case on its merits, there and then. There is no necessity for employing
a referee, and there are no written records of the case. The decision, the date, and the abstract
records appear on the court books, and that is all. And yet, by the section of the Constitution,
already quoted, this decree is regarded,--by the court that grants it, at least,--as perfectly
legal and operative all over the Union. Although this is not the case, there are almost insuperable
obstacles to such a divorce being set aside. For there are no names of witnesses and no records.
There is the name of the lawyer; but if a "muss is raised." he is either non est inventus,
or his memory is paralyzed. He has no recollection of the names of the witnesses, of the date
of the hearing, or indeed of the case. No matter what evidence the injured party might be able
to produce, he cannot get an iota of satisfaction nor make the least progress until he knows
what evidence was presented against him when the decree was granted. Daniel McFarland found
this in Indiana, and so have scores of others. These Western and Southwestern States are therefore
not unadvisedly deemed "safe," and hence they are very largely patronized.

In Iowa, Indiana, and Rhode Island, again, the court possesses what is termed "discretionary
power" in divorce cases. The State Constitution, after specifying the usual prime ground--adultery--goes
on to specify: "And for any other cause for which the court shall deem it proper that a divorce
should be granted," or "when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court that the parties
can no longer live harmoniously together." It requires no elaborate reasoning to perceive that
a decree granted under such conditions remains tolerably secure. For the testimony has been
taken vive voce, and the decree pronounced in open court, after the judge has been "satisfied"
that the complainant "can no longer live harmoniously" with her Johnny or his Jenny.

A case illustrating this point came under our notice some years ago. A wealthy young Frenchman
eloped from Bordeaux with the girl-wife of a middle-aged wine exporter. The runaways came to
New York, and in a short time, through a specialist, the lady obtained, in an Iowa court, a
divorce from her deserted husband. The deferred rite of matrimony was then solemnized between
the pair.

About twelve months afterward, business called the happy husband back to France. It was not
deemed advisable for his charming wife to accompany him. Neither, as a matter of fact, did
she wish to undertake the voyage. But she accompanied him on board the steamer and bade him
a touching, emotional and affectionate adieu. Mark what followed! Hardly had he got twenty-four
hours beyond Sandy Hook than she proceeded to the same specialist, who had severed her former
bonds, and employed him to procure her another divorce. It was applied for, and duly granted
by the presiding judge of the Fourth District Court of Iowa. When this decree came to hand,
with its flash heading and big red seal, the lady was married to a handsome young dry-goods man.

Meantime the absent husband in Paris kept up a fervent correspondence with his wife, anathematizing
his ill-luck in being so long kept from her side. She replied regularly and kindly to these
letters until her wedding with the young dry-goods Adonis was consummated, when she abruptly
ceased to write. The Frenchman remonstrated, adjured, cursed and cabled, but receiving no response
finally hurried across the ocean to find that he was a divorced man, and to be reminded, in
the choice phraseology of his supplanter, that "what was sauce for the goose, was sauce for
the gander."

With true Gallic impetuosity he sought for VENGEANCE! He employed lawyers and spent considerable
money in the expectation not only of setting the divorce aside, but in bringing the lady and
her paramour to condign punishment. His efforts, however, proved perfectly impotent. The lawyer,
resident at the court, remembered nothing of the evidence, and the court remembered the case
only so far as that it was perfectly regular and satisfactory.

Thus it will be seen that

        "Domestic happiness,
 That only bliss of Paradise which has survived the fall,"

when once perverted by cunning treachery like this, leaves the betrayed with little chance
to cover its poor grave with the ostentatious monument of legal justice.

There are some aspects of this divorce specialist business which would be amusing did they
not furnish such a cloak and encouragement to depravity and licentiousness. The following narrative
of actual facts illustrates a phase of the kept-mistress ethics, and shows how the Western
bogus divorce operates in lowering the tone of society and in sapping the foundations of morality:

A few years since a young stock broker of this city, spent his summer vacation in the sylvan
glades of the country surrounding Lake Champlain. He possessed an appreciative eye for feminine
beauty, and a soul burning for adventure. Like most men of this type, he was not apt to be
disturbed by qualms of conscience where the gratification of his passions was concerned. In
an evil hour, he made the acquaintance of a handsome Vermont girl, just merging upon the full
meridian of exceptionally voluptuous charms. Without any special claim to mental endowments,
Sadie F----- was a superb animal. Her, our frisky broker saw, and wooed. The girl fell madly
in love with him, and, before long, ceased to be a virgin of the vale. Lothario was much attached
to her, and by his persuasions and ornate representations of city life, backed by aureate promises,
she was induced to fly from her once happy rural home and to live with her seducer in this
city. He began by treating her well, placing her in handsome apartments in a boarding house
on the west side, and for nearly a year the ardor of his attachment knew no abatement. Gradually,
however, the affection on his side began to wane. She awoke from her delusive dream to the
consciousness that she was alone in a great city without friends, money, or virtue. Whither
could she flee? She could not return to her country home to look into the sorrowful depths
of her mother's tender eye, or face the stings and sneers of the people of her native village.
"A life of pleasure"--as it is sarcastically termed--seemed her only resource. In her terrible
extremity, she made a last appeal to her deceiver, and succeeded in touching a tender spot
in his heart. Perplexed as to what disposition he could possibly make of the girl who had loved
him "not wisely but too well," he consulted an acquaintance notorious for the number and variety
of his amours. "Oh, my dear boy, that's easily settled,"' said the friend, "get a Western divorce
through one of those advertising fellows." The broker didn't "catch on"--he couldn't see why
he should obtain a divorce, and said as much. "But she wants the divorce!" replied the adviser.
"Let her be divorced from Frederick Brown, or Augustus Smith, or Maximilian Johnson, and then,
you see, her character will be restored, her virtue whitewashed, and she will be corroborated
and sustained as a respectable member of society; an object of envy and emulation on the part
of her sex, and of interest, admiration and honest courtship by ours." So a decree was duly
applied for through one of those "divorce lawyers" wherein the petitioner, Mrs. Sadie Johnson,
sought to be severed from the hated yoke of her husband, George Frederick Johnson, who, as
the petition set forth, not only treated her with habitual brutality but continually violated
the purity of the hymeneal couch, to wit, etc., etc. The papers were duly served upon the defendant,
who assumed the name of George Frederick Johnson for the purpose of the suit. At the expiration
of the time allowed in such cases for an answer to the petition, no defense had been set up.
The lady's lawyer thereupon moved for the appointment of a referee, as well as for counsel
fee and alimony. All went smoothly, of course, for the petitioner, and in due course the decree
of absolute divorce was granted to this unmarried lady, with permission for her to marry again,
while the disreputable George Frederick Johnson was absolutely debarred from any such privilege.

When the decree was recorded, Sadie returned to her family by the peaceful waters of the lake,
and was received with open arms. She was an object of envy to the unsophisticated young ladies
of the neighborhood, and of open and unbounded admiration to the young men. She had learned
to dress and to put on flash airs, and her experience in vice, gilded over by this divorce
sham, rendered her much more attractive metal to matrimonially-disposed Strephons than any
quiet, retiring Daphne of the rural district. She soon became the wife of a well-to-do country
store-keeper, and made his home a pandemonium, which ended by him employing a regular lawyer
to procure a divorce, when the foregoing facts were elicited.

There is a class of crimes prevalent in the metropolis, which, from its secret character and
the apparent respectability of those engaged in it, rarely ever sees the light of exposure.
Some of these offenses are hushed through the influence or prominence of the operators. In
others the facts are never divulged, because the victims prefer to suffer loss rather than
have their names dragged into a publicity which, to say the least, would reflect on them discreditably.
For these, and other obvious reasons, many kinds of secret crimes flourish and abound in the
esoteric life of great cities. In New York, where money is often rapidly acquired, and where
little curiosity is manifested as to the mode of its acquisition, there are naturally many
facilities for putting black-mailing schemes into successful operation. Scores of persons,
apparently respectable, are constantly on the alert to discover compromising facts in connection
with persons of wealth. Words dropped from ordinary conversations, hints and allusions overheard,
form a clue, which, followed up and reported in a broadly compromising form to the pecunious
person concerned, will, in the majority of instances, induce him to imitate the role of the
coon that preferred to "come down" rather than be shot at.

Experienced New Yorkers need not be told that there has existed among us for years a class
of individuals whose only source of revenue is black-mail. Ever on the qui vive for real scandal
or its counterfeit presentment, these cormorants levy tribute upon both sexes. The high and
haughty dame, with a too appreciative and wandering eye; the wealthy banker, with a proclivity
for "little French milliners;" the Christian husband, with a feminine peccadillo; the pew-owner
at church, with a disposition to apply St. Paul's "holy kiss" a little too literally; and the
saintly pastor with a skeleton in his closet, are all alike fish in the tribute net of this
insatiable toiler of the turbid sea of scandal.

No uninitiated person can form an idea of the large number of such cases that are yearly silenced
by the payment of hush-money in this city. Sometimes the victim and the victimizer meet, the
money demanded is paid over, and there the matter ends. More frequently the negotiation is
conducted by means of a "go between" with the same pecuniary result. In some cases, again,
the trouble receives settlement in the office of a lawyer, when a receipt and full release
of past and future claims is taken by the legal gentleman, who thus secures his client immunity
from further demands. It is a well-accepted axiom that under like circumstances the same cause
produces the same effect. And so the causes which lead to black-mailing in this city are precisely
similar to the influences operating in Paris or London to produce the same ignoble crime. A
married lady may become too familiar with some gentleman who has not the pleasure of being
known to her husband; she may have been tenderly sentimental and gushingly confidential with
him, and may even have confided her arduous imaginings to paper, when a rupture occurs--and
be sure that a rupture always does occur in such cases--the cavalier may not only threaten
to talk and "tell," but refuse to return the amatory correspondence, unless under substantial
pecuniary inducements. This is the return she gets for what may be termed her privateering
experiences, and there are numbers of creatures, whom it were sacrilege to call men, who make
a regular business of becoming acquainted with married women for this special purpose. Instances
are on record where a certain stipulated sum of money has been paid for years to a professional
black-mailer, who held letters written to him by a lady whose acquaintance was made at a matinee.
We were cognizant of a case in which the bird of prey, not content with his own extortions,
handed over the lady's letters, on his death-bed, to a confederate, who continued successfully
to maintain the payment of hush-money until death removed the weak and persecuted victim.

Ladies have no idea what risks they run when making chance acquaintances, nor how such intimacy
may end. They may be successfully fortified against all the arts and blandishments brought
to attack their honor, and yet be seriously compromised. The handsome and fashionably dressed
street-lounger is very frequently a resourceful rascal. He may invite the lady to take a carriage-ride,
and, as has sometimes happened, an accomplice acts in the capacity of hackman. The drive selected
is through the principal streets. Some hotel or fashionable restaurant is visited, and if she
still successfully resists wine and wiles, it is more than likely that she will be visited
the following day by a "detective" who will calmly inform her that he "shadowed" her yesterday.
Of course he is after money, and she pays his demand rather than permit him to carry into execution
his threat of telling her husband.

