TRANSCRIBER NOTES: 
| |To reflect the individual character of this document,| |inconsistencies in formatting have
been retained.    | |                                                     | |[HW:  ] denotes
a handwritten note.                  | +-----------------------------------------------------+

  INFORMANTS

  Abrams, M. E.                                                        1

  Adams, Ezra                                                          5

  Adams, Mary                                                          9

  Adams, Victoria                                                     10

  Adamson, Frank                                                      13

  Andrews, Frances                                                17, 18

  Arthur, Pete                                                        19

  Bacchus, Josephine                                                  20

  Ballard, William                                                    26

  Barber, Charley                                                     29

  Barber, Ed                                                          34

  Barber, Millie                                                      38

  Bates, Anderson                                                     42

  Bates, Millie                                                       46

  Bees, Welcome                                                       48

  Bell, Anne                                                          51

  Bevis, Caroline                                                     55

  Black, Maggie                                                       57

  Bluford, Fordon                                                     62

  Boulware, Samuel                                                    65

  Boyd, John                                                          70

  Bradley, Jane                                                       74

  Brice, Andy                                                         75

  Briggs, George                                              80, 89, 93

  Bristow, Josephine                                                  98

  Broome, Anne                                                       104

  Brown, Hagar                                             107, 112, 115

  Brown, Henry                                                  118, 122

  Brown, John C.                                                     127

  Brown, Mary Frances                                           131, 134

  Brown, Sara                                                   137, 141

  Bryant, Margaret                                                   143

  Burrell, Savilla                                                   149

  Burton, C. B.                                                      152

  Butler, George Ann                                                 153

  Butler, Isaiah                                                     155

  Butler, Solbert                                                    161

  Cain, Granny                                                  166, 168

  Caldwell, Laura                                                    169

  Caldwell, Solomon                                                  170

  Cameron, Nelson                                                    172

  Campbell, Thomas                                                   176

  Cannon, Sylvia                                                180, 187

  Caroline, Albert                                                   197

  Chisolm, Silvia                                                    199

  Chisolm, Tom                                                       201

  Cleland, Maria                                                     204

  Clifton, Peter                                                     205

  Coleman, Henry                                                     210

  Coleman, Rev. Tuff                                                 216

  Collier, Louisa                                                    218

  Collins, John                                                      224

  Corry, Bouregard                                                   227

  Craig, Caleb                                                       229

  Cunningham, Dinah                                                  234

  Daniels, Lucy                                                      238

  Davenport, John N.                                                 240

  Davenport, Moses                                                   244

  Davis, Charlie                                                     245

  Davis, Charlie                                                     250

  Davis, Heddie                                                      254

  Davis, Henry                                                       260

  Davis, Jesse                                                       263

  Davis, Lizzie                                            267, 288, 293

  Davis, Louisa                                                      299

  Davis, Wallace                                                304, 306

  Davis, William Henry                                               308

  Dawkins, Elias                                                     313

  Dill, Will                                                         319

  Dixon, Thomas                                                      324

  Dorroh, Isabella                                                   326

  Downing, Laurence                                                  329

  Dozier, Washington                                                 330

  Duke, Alice                                                        336

  Durant, Silva (Sylvia)                                        337, 342

       *       *       *       *       *

  Project 1885-1
  From Field Notes.
  District No. 4.
  April 27, 1937
  Edited by:
  Elmer Turnage

  FOLK LORE: FOLK TALES (Negro).

"Marse Glenn had 64 slaves. On Sat'day night, de darkies would have a little fun on de side.
A way off from de big house, down in de pastur' dar wuz about de bigges' gully what I is ebber
seed. Dat wuz de place whar us collected mos' ev'ry Sa'day night fer our lil' mite o' fun frum
de white folks hearin'. Sometime it wuz so dark dat you could not see de fingers on yo' han'
when you would raise it fo' your face. Dem wuz sho' schreechy nights; de schreechiest what
I is ever witnessed, in all o' my born natu'al days. Den of cose, dar wuz de moonlight nights
when a darky could see; den he see too much. De pastur' wuz big and de trees made dark spots
in it on de brightest nights. All kind o' varmints tuck and hollered at ye as ye being gwine
along to reach dat gully. Cose us would go in droves sometime, and den us would go alone to
de gully sometime. When us started together, look like us would git parted 'fo we reach de
gully all together. One of us see som'tin and take to runnin'. Maybe de other darkies in de
drove, de wouldn't see nothin' jes den. Dats zactly how it is wid de spirits. De mout (might)
sho de'self to you and not to me. De acts raal queer all de way round. Dey can take a notion
to scare de daylights outtin you when you is wid a gang; or dey kin scare de whole gang; den,
on de other hand, dey kin sho de'self off to jes two or three. It ain't never no knowin' as
to how and when dem things is gwine to come in your path right fo your very eyes; specially
when you is partakin' in some raal dark secret whar you is planned to act raal sof' and quiet
like all de way through.

"Dem things bees light on dark nights; de shines de'self jes like dese 'lectric lights does
out dar in dat street ever' night, 'cept dey is a scaird waary light dat dey shines wid. On
light nights, I is seed dem look, furs dark like a tree shad'er; den dey gits raal scairy white.
T'aint no use fer white folks to low dat it ain't no haints, an' grievements dat follows ye
all around, kaise I is done had to many 'spriences wid dem. Den dare is dese young niggers
what ain't fit to be called darkies, dat tries to ac' eddicated, and says dat it ain't any
spe'rits dat walks de earth. When dey lows dat to me, I rolls my old eyes at dem an' axes dem
how comes dey runs so fas' through de woods at night. Yes sirree, dem fool niggers sees dem
jes as I does. Raaly de white folks doesn't have eyes fer sech as we darkies does; but dey
bees dare jes de same.

"Never mindin' all o' dat, we n'used to steal our hog ever' sa'day night and take off to de
gully whar us'd git him dressed and barbecued. Niggers has de mos'es fun at a barbecue dat
dare is to be had. As none o' our gang didn't have no 'ligion, us never felt no scruples bout
not gettin de 'cue' ready fo' Sunday. Us'd git back to de big house along in de evenin' o'
Sunday. Den Marse, he come out in de yard an' low whar wuz you niggers dis mornin'. How come
de chilluns had to do de work round here. Us would tell some lie bout gwine to a church 'siety
meetin'. But we got raal scairt and mose 'cided dat de best plan wuz to do away wid de barbecue
in de holler. Conjin 'Doc.' say dat he done put a spell on ole Marse so dat he wuz 'blevin
ev'y think dat us tole him bout Sa'day night and Sunday morning. Dat give our minds 'lief;
but it turned out dat in a few weeks de Marse come out from under de spell. Doc never even
knowed nothin' bout it. Marse had done got to countin' his hogs ever' week. When he cotch us,
us wuz all punished wid a hard long task. Dat cured me o' believing in any conjuring an' charmin'
but I still kno's dat dare is haints; kaise ever time you goes to dat gully at night, up to
dis very day, you ken hear hogs still gruntin' in it, but you can't see nothing.

"After Marse Glenn tuck and died, all o' de white folks went off and lef' de plantation. Some
mo' folks dat wuz not o' quality, come to live dare an' run de plantation. It wuz done freedom
den. Wo'nt long fo dem folks pull up and lef' raal onexpected like. I doesn't recollect what
dey went by, fat is done slipped my mind; but I must 'av knowed. But dey lowed dat de house
wuz to draffy and dat dey couldn't keep de smoke in de chimney an' dat de doo's would not stay
shet. Also dey lowed dat folks prowled aroun' in de yard in de night time a keepin' dem awake.

"Den Marse Glenn's boys put Mammy in de house to keep it fer 'em. But Lawd God! Mammy said
dat de furs night she stayed dare de haints nebber let her git not narr'y mite o' sleep. Us
all had lowed dat wuz de raal reason dem white folks lef out so fas'. When Mammy could not
live in dat big house whar she had stayed fer years, it won't no use fer nobody else to try.
Mammy low dat it de Marse a lookin' fer his money what he done tuck and burried and de boys
couldn't find no sign o' it. Atter dat, de sons tuck an' tacked a sign on de front gate, offering
$200.00 to de man, white or black, dat would stay dar and fin' out whar dat money wuz burried.
Our preacher, the Rev. Wallace, lowed dat he would stay dar and find out whar dat money wuz
from de spirits. He knowed dat dey wuz tryin to sho de spot what dat money wuz.

"He went to bed. A dog began running down dem steps; and a black cat run across de room dat
turned to white befo' it run into de wall. Den a pair of white horses come down de stairway
a rattling chains fer harness. Next a woman dressed in white come in dat room. Brother Wallace
up and lit out dat house and he never went back no mo'.

"Another preacher tried stayin' dar. He said he gwine to keep his head kivered plum up. Some'tin
unkivered it and he seed a white goat a grinnin' at him. But as he wuz a brave man and trus'
de Lawd, he lowed, 'What you want wid me nohow?' The goat said, 'what is you doin' here. Raise,
I knows dat you ain't sleep.' De preacher say, 'I wants you to tell me what ole Marse don tuck
and hid dat money?' De goat grin and low, 'How come you don' look under your pillar, sometime?'
Den he run away. De preacher hopped up and looked under de pillar, and dar wuz de money sho
nuf. Peers like it wuz de one on de lef' end o' de back porch, but I jes remembers 'bout dat."

Source: Mrs. M. E. Abrams, Whitmire, S. C.; told her by old "uncle" "Mad" Griffin, Whitmire,
(Col. 82 yrs.) Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S. C. 2/25/37.

  Project #1655
  Henry Grant
  Columbia, S. C.

  REFLECTIONS OF EZRA ADAMS
  EX-SLAVE 83 YEARS OLD

Ezra Adams is incapable of self-support, owing to ill health. He is very well taken care of
by a niece, who lives on the Caughman land just off S. C. #6, and near Swansea, S. C.

"My mammy and pappy b'long to Marster Lawrence Adams, who had a big plantation in de eastern
part of Lancaster County. He died four years after de Civil War and is buried right dere on
de old plantation, in de Adams family burying grounds. I was de oldest of de five chillun in
our family. I 'members I was a right smart size plowboy, when freedom come. I think I must
of been 'bout ten or eleven years old, then. Dere's one thing I does know; de Yankees didn't
tech our plantation, when they come through South Carolina. Up in de northern part of de county
they sho' did destroy most all what folks had.

"You ain't gwine to believe dat de slaves on our plantation didn't stop workin' for old marster,
even when they was told dat they was free. Us didn't want no more freedom than us was gittin'
on our plantation already. Us knowed too well dat us was well took care of, wid a plenty of
vittles to eat and tight log and board houses to live in. De slaves, where I lived, knowed
after de war dat they had abundance of dat somethin' called freedom, what they could not wat,
wear, and sleep in. Yes, sir, they soon found out dat freedom ain't nothin', 'less you is got
somethin' to live on and a place to call home. Dis livin' on liberty is lak young folks livin'
on love after they gits married. It just don't work. No, sir, it las' so long and not a bit
longer. Don't tell me! It sho' don't hold good when you has to work, or when you gits hongry.
You knows dat poor white folks and niggers has got to work to live, regardless of liberty,
love, and all them things. I believes a person loves more better, when they feels good. I knows
from experience dat poor folks feels better when they has food in deir frame and a few dimes
to jingle in deir pockets. I knows what it means to be a nigger, wid nothin'. Many times I
had to turn every way I knowed to git a bite to eat. I didn't care much 'bout clothes. What
I needed in sich times was food to keep my blood warm and gwine 'long.

"Boss, I don't want to think, and I knows I ain't gwine to say a word, not a word of evil against
deir dust lyin' over yonder in deir graves. I was old enough to know what de passin' 'way of
old marster and missus meant to me. De very stream of lifeblood in me was dryin' up, it 'peared
lak. When marster died, dat was my fust real sorrow. Three years later, missus passed 'way,
dat was de time of my second sorrow. Then, I 'minded myself of a little tree out dere in de
woods in November. Wid every sharp and cold wind of trouble dat blowed, more leaves of dat
tree turnt loose and went to de ground, just lak they was tryin' to follow her. It seem lak,
when she was gone, I was just lak dat tree wid all de leaves gone, naked and friendless. It
took me a long time to git over all dat; same way wid de little tree, it had to pass through
winter and wait on spring to see life again.

"I has farmed 'most all my life and, if I was not so old, I would be doin' dat same thing now.
If a poor man wants to enjoy a little freedom, let him go on de farm and work for hisself.
It is sho' worth somethin' to be boss, and, on de farm you can be boss all you want to, 'less
de man 'low his wife to hold dat 'portant post. A man wid a good wife, one dat pulls wid him,
can see and feel some pleasure and experience some independence. But, bless your soul, if he
gits a woman what wants to be both husband and wife, fare-you-well and good-bye, too, to all
love, pleasure, and independence; 'cause you sho' is gwine to ketch hell here and no mild climate
whenever you goes 'way. A bad man is worse, but a bad woman is almost terrible.

"White man, dere is too many peoples in dese big towns and cities. Dere is more of them than
dere is jobs to make a livin' wid. When some of them find out dat they can't make a livin',
they turns to mischief, de easy way they thinks, takin' widout pay or work, dat which b'longs
to other people. If I understands right, de fust sin dat was committed in de world was de takin'
of somethin' dat didn't b'long to de one what took it. De gentleman what done dis was dat man
Adam, back yonder in de garden. If what Adam done back yonder would happen now, he would be
guilty of crime. Dat's how 'ciety names sin. Well, what I got to say is dis: If de courts,
now, would give out justice and punishment as quick as dat what de Good Master give to Adam,
dere would be less crime in de land I believes. But I 'spose de courts would be better if they
had de same jurisdiction as de Master has. Yes, sir, they would be gwine some then.

"I tells you, dis gittin' what don't b'long to you is de main cause of dese wars and troubles
'bout over dis world now. I hears de white folks say dat them Japanese is doin' dis very thing
today in fightin' them Chinamens. Japan say dat China has done a terrible crime against them
and de rest of de world, when it ain't nothin' but dat they wants somethin' what don't belong
to them, and dat somethin' is to git more country. I may be wrong, anyhow, dat is what I has heard.

"What does I think de colored people need most? If you please sir, I want to say dis. I ain't
got much learnin', 'cause dere was no schools hardly 'round where I was brung up, but I thinks
dat good teachers and work is what de colored race needs worser than anything else. If they
has learnin', they will be more ashame to commit crime, most of them will be; and, if they
has work to do, they ain't gwine to have time to do so much wrong. Course dere is gwine to
be black sheeps in most flocks, and it is gwine to take patience to git them out, but they
will come out, just as sho' as you is born.

"Is de colored people superstitious? Listen at dat. You makes me laugh. All dat foolishness
fust started wid de black man. De reason they is superstitious comes from nothin' but stomp-down
ignorance. De white chillun has been nursed by colored women and they has told them stories
'bout hants and sich lak. So de white chillun has growed up believin' some of dat stuff 'til
they natchally pass it on from generation to generation. Here we is, both white and colored,
still believin' some of them lies started back when de whites fust come to have de blacks 'round
them.

"If you wants to know what I thinks is de best vittles, I's gwine to be obliged to omit (admit)
dat it is cabbage sprouts in de spring, and it is collard greens after frost has struck them.
After de best vittles, dere come some more what is mighty tasty, and they is hoghead and chittlings
wid 'tatoes and turnips. Did you see dat? Here I is talkin' 'bout de joys of de appetite and
water drapping from my mouth. I sho' must be gittin' hongry. I lak to eat. I has been a good
eater all my life, but now I is gittin' so old dat 'cordin' to de scriptures, 'De grinders
cease 'cause they are few', and too, 'Those dat look out de windows be darkened'. My old eyes
and teeth is 'bout gone, and if they does go soon, they ain't gwine to beat dis old frame long,
'cause I is gwine to soon follow, I feels. I hope when I does go, I can be able to say what
dat great General Stonewall Jackson say when he got kilt in de Civil War, 'I is gwine to cross
de river and rest under de shade of de trees'."

[~HW: Ezra Adams, Swansea (about 10m. south of Columbia)~]

  Project 1885-1.
  Folk Lore
  District No. 4.
  May 27, 1937.
  Edited by: J. J. Murray.

  EX-SLAVE STORIES

"Aunt" Mary Adams was swinging easily back and forth in the porch swing as the writer stopped
to speak to her. When questioned, she replied that she and her mother were ex-slaves and had
belonged to Dr. C. E. Fleming. She was born in Columbia, but they were moved to Glenn Springs
where her mother cooked for Dr. Fleming.

She remembers going with a white woman whose husband was in jail, to carry him something to
eat. She said that Mr. Jim Milster was in that jail, but he lived to get out, and later kept
a tin shop in Spartanburg.

"Yes sir, Dr. Fleming always kept enough for us Niggers to eat during the war. He was good
to us. You know he married Miss Dean. Do you know Mrs. Lyles, Mrs. Simpson, Mr. Ed Fleming?
Well, dey are my chilluns.

"Some man here told me one day that I was ninety years old, but I do not believe I am quite
that old. I don't know how old I am, but I was walking during slavery times. I can't work now,
for my feet hurt me and my fingers ain't straight."

She said all of her children were dead but two, that she knew of. She said that she had a room
in that house and white people gave her different things. As the writer told her good-bye,
she said, "Good-bye, and may the Lord bless you".

  Source: "Aunt" Mary Adams, 363 S. Liberty Street, Spartanburg, S. C.
          Interviewer: F. S. DuPre, Spartanburg, S. C.

  Project #1655
  Everett R. Pierce
  Columbia, S. C.

  VICTORIA ADAMS
  EX-SLAVE 90 YEARS OLD.

"You ask me to tell you something 'bout myself and de slaves in slavery times? Well Missy,
I was borned a slave, nigh on to ninety years ago, right down here at Cedar Creek, in Fairfield
County.

"My massa's name was Samuel Black and missus was named Martha. She used to be Martha Kirkland
befo' she married. There was five chillun in de family; they was: Alice, Manning, Sally, Kirkland,
and de baby, Eugene. De white folks live in a great big house up on a hill; it was right pretty,
too.

"You wants to know how large de plantation was I lived on? Well, I don't know 'zackly but it
was mighty large. There was forty of us slaves in all and it took all of us to keep de plantation
goin'. De most of de niggers work in de field. They went to work as soon as it git light enough
to see how to git 'round; then when twelve o'clock come, they all stops for dinner and don't
go back to work 'til two. All of them work on 'til it git almost dark. No ma'am, they ain't
do much work at night after they gits home.

"Massa Samuel ain't had no overseer, he look after his own plantation. My old granddaddy help
him a whole heap though. He was a good nigger and massa trust him.

"After de crops was all gathered, de slaves still had plenty of work to do. I stayed in de
house wid de white folks. De most I had to do was to keep de house clean up and nurse de chillun.
I had a heap of pretty clothes to wear, 'cause my missus give me de old clothes and shoes dat
Missy Sally throw 'way.

"De massa and missus was good to me but sometime I was so bad they had to whip me. I 'members
she used to whip me every time she tell me to do something and I take too long to move 'long
and do it. One time my missus went off on a visit and left me at home. When she come back,
Sally told her that I put on a pair of Bubber's pants and scrub de floor wid them on. Missus
told me it was a sin for me to put on a man's pants, and she whip me pretty bad. She say it's
in de Bible dat: 'A man shall not put on a woman's clothes, nor a woman put on a man's clothes'.
I ain't never see that in de Bible though, but from then 'til now, I ain't put on no more pants.

"De grown-up slaves was punished sometime too. When they didn't feel like taking a whippin'
they went off in de woods and stay 'til massa's hounds track them down; then they'd bring them
out and whip them. They might as well not run away. Some of them never come back a-tall, don't
know what become of them. We ain't had no jail for slaves; never ain't see none in chains neither.
There was a guard-house right in de town but us niggers never was carried to it. You ask me
if I ever see a slave auctioned off? Yes ma'am, one time. I see a little girl 'bout ten years
old sold to a soldier man. Dis soldier man was married and didn't had no chillun and he buy
dis little girl to be company for his wife and to help her wid de house work.

"White folks never teach us to read nor write much. They learned us our A, B, C's, and teach
us to read some in de testament. De reason they wouldn't teach us to read and write, was 'cause
they was afraid de slaves would write their own pass and go over to a free county. One old
nigger did learn enough to write his pass and got 'way wid it and went up North.

"Missus Martha sho' did look after de slaves good when they was sick. Us had medicine made
from herbs, leaves and roots; some of them was cat-nip, garlic root, tansy, and roots of burdock.
De roots of burdock soaked in whiskey was mighty good medicine. We dipped asafetida in turpentine
and hung it 'round our necks to keep off disease.

"Befo' de Yankees come thru, our peoples had let loose a lot of our hosses and de hosses strayed
over to de Yankee side, and de Yankee men rode de hosses back over to our plantation. De Yankees
asked us if we want to be free. I never say I did; I tell them I want to stay wid my missus
and they went on and let me alone. They 'stroyed most everything we had 'cept a little vittles;
took all de stock and take them wid them. They burned all de buildings 'cept de one de massa
and missus was livin' in.

"It wasn't long after de Yankees went thru dat our missus told us dat we don't b'long to her
and de massa no more. None of us left dat season. I got married de next year and left her.
I like being free more better. Any niggers what like slavery time better, is lazy people dat
don't want to do nothing.

"I married Fredrick Adams; he used to b'long to Miss Tenny Graddick but after he was freed
he had to take another name. Mr. Jess Adams, a good fiddler dat my husband like to hang 'round,
told him he could take his name if he wanted to and dats how he got de name of Adams. Us had
four chillun; only one livin', dat Lula. She married John Entzminger and got several chillun.
My gran'chillun a heap of comfort to me."

  Home Address:
  Colonial Heights,
  Columbia, S. C.

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  FRANK ADAMSON
  EX-SLAVE 82 YEARS OLD.

"I 'members when you was barefoot at de bottom; now I see you a settin' dere, gittin' bare
at de top, as bare as de palm of my hand.

"I's been 'possum huntin' wid your pappy, when he lived on de Wateree, just after de war. One
night us got into tribulation, I tells you! 'Twas 'bout midnight when de dogs make a tree.
Your pappy climb up de tree, git 'bout halfway up, heard sumpin' dat once you hears it you
never forgits, and dats de rattlin' of de rattles on a rattle snake's tail. Us both 'stinctly
hear dat sound! What us do? Me on de ground, him up de tree, but where de snake? Dat was de
misery, us didn't know. Dat snake give us fair warnin' though! Marster Sam (dats your pa) 'low:
'Frank, ease down on de ground; I'll just stay up here for a while.' I lay on them leaves,
skeered to make a russle. Your pa up de tree skeered to go up or down! Broad daylight didn't
move us. Sun come up, he look all 'round from his vantage up de tree, then come down, not 'til
then, do I gits on my foots.

"Then I laugh and laugh and laugh, and ask Marster Sam how he felt. Marster Sam kinda frown
and say: 'Damn I feels like hell! Git up dat tree! Don't you see dat 'possum up dere?' I say:
'But where de snake, Marster?' He say: 'Dat rattler done gone home, where me and you and dat
'possum gonna be pretty soon!'

"I b'longs to de Peays. De father of them all was, Korshaw Peay. My marster was his son, Nicholas;
he was a fine man to just look at. My mistress was always tellin' him 'bout how fine and handsome-like
he was. He must of got use to it; howsomever, marster grin every time she talk like dat.

"My pappy was bought from de Adamson peoples; they say they got him off de ship from Africa.
He sho' was a man; he run all de other niggers 'way from my mammy and took up wid her widout
askin' de marster. Her name was Lavinia. When us got free, he 'sisted on Adamson was de name
us would go by. He name was William Adamson. Yes sir! my brothers was: Justus, Hillyard, and
Donald, and my sisters was, Martha and Lizzettie.

"'Deed I did work befo' freedom. What I do? Hoed cotton, pick cotton, 'tend to calves and slop
de pigs, under de 'vision of de overseer. Who he was? First one name Mr. Cary, he a good man.
Another one Mr. Tim Gladden, burn you up whenever he just take a notion to pop his whip. Us
boys run 'round in our shirt tails. He lak to see if he could lift de shirt tail widout techin'
de skin. Just as often as not, though, he tech de skin. Little boy holler and Marster Tim laugh.

"Us live in quarters. Our beds was nailed to de sides of de house. Most of de chillun slept
on pallets on de floor. Got water from a big spring.

"De white folks 'tend to you all right. Us had two doctors, Doctor Carlisle and Doctor James.

"I see some money, but never own any then. Had plenty to eat: Meat, bread, milk, lye hominy,
horse apples, turnips, collards, pumpkins, and dat kind of truck.

"Was marster rich? How come he wasn't? He brag his land was ten miles square and he had a thousand
slaves. Them poor white folks looked up to him lak God Almighty; they sho' did. They would
have stuck their hands in de fire if he had of asked them to do it. He had a fish pond on top
of de house and terraces wid strawberries, all over de place. See them big rock columns down
dere now? Dats all dats left of his grandness and greatness. They done move de whippin' post
dat was in de backyard. Yes sah, it was a 'cessity wid them niggers. It stood up and out to
'mind them dat if they didn't please de master and de overseer, they'd hug dat post, and de
lend of dat whip lash gwine to flip to de hide of dat back of their's.

"I ain't a complainin'. He was a good master, bestest in de land, but he just have to have
a whippin' post, 'cause you'll find a whole passle of bad niggers when you gits a thousand
of them in one flock.

"Screech owl holler? Women and men turn socks and stockings wrong side out quick, dat they
did, do it now, myself. I's black as a crow but I's got a white folks heart. Didn't ketch me
foolin' 'round wid niggers in radical times. I's as close to white folks then as peas in a
pod. Wore de red shirt and drunk a heap of brandy in Columbia, dat time us went down to General
Hampton into power. I 'clare I hollered so loud goin' 'long in de procession, dat a nice white
lady run out one of de houses down dere in Columbia, give me two biscuits and a drum stick
of chicken, patted me on de shoulder, and say: 'Thank God for all de big black men dat can
holler for Governor Hampton as loud as dis one does.' Then I hollers some more for to please
dat lady, though I had to take de half chawed chicken out dis old mouth, and she laugh 'bout
dat 'til she cried. She did!

"Well, I'll be rockin' 'long balance of dese days, a hollerin' for Mr. Roosevelt, just as loud
as I holler then for Hampton.

"My young marsters was: Austin, Tom, and Nicholas; they was all right 'cept they tease you
too hard maybe some time, and want to mix in wid de 'fairs of slave 'musements.

"Now what make you ask dat? Did me ever do any courtin'? You knows I did. Every he thing from
a he king down to a bunty rooster gits cited 'bout she things. I's lay wake many nights 'bout
sich things. It's de nature of a he, to take after de she. They do say dat a he angel ain't
got dis to worry 'bout.

"I fust courted Martha Harrison. Us marry and jine de church. Us had nine chillun; seven of
them livin'. A woman can't stand havin' chillun, lak a man. Carryin', sucklin', and 'tending
to them wore her down, dat, wid de malaria of de Wateree brung her to her grave.

"I sorrow over her for weeks, maybe five months, then I got to thinking how I'd pair up wid
dis one and dat one and de other one. Took to shavin' again and gwine to Winnsboro every Saturday,
and different churches every Sunday. I hear a voice from de choir, one Sunday, dat makes me
sit up and take notice of de gal on de off side in front. Well sir! a spasm of fright fust
hit me dat I might not git her, dat I was too old for de likes of her, and dat some no 'count
nigger might be in de way. In a few minutes I come to myself. I rise right up, walked into
dat choir, stand by her side, and wid dis voice of mine, dat always 'tracts 'tention, jined
in de hymn and out sung them all. It was easy from dat time on.

"I marry Kate at de close of dat revival. De day after de weddin', what you reckon? Don't know?
Well, after gittin' breakfas' she went to de field, poke 'round her neck, basket on her head
and picked two hundred pounds of cotton. Dats de kind of woman she is."

  Project 1815-1
  FOLKLORE
  Spartanburg Dist. I was a
slave of John Wallace. I was the only child, and when a small child, my
mother was sold to Joe Liggins by my old master, Bob Adams. It is said
that the old brick house where the Wallaces lived was built by a
Eichleberger, but Dr. John Simpson lived there and sold it to Mr.
Wallace. In the attic was an old skeleton which the children thought
bewitched the house. None of them would go upstairs by themselves. I
suppose old Dr. Simpson left it there. Sometimes later, it was taken out
and buried. Marse Wallace had many slaves and kept them working, but he
was not a strict master.

"I married Allen Andrews after the war. He went to the war with his master. He was at Columbia
with the Confederate troops when Sherman burnt the place. Some of them, my husband included,
was captured and taken to Richmond Va. They escaped and walked back home, but all but five
or six fell out or died.

"My young master, Editor Bill Wallace, a son of Marse John, was a soldier. When he was sick
at home, I fanned the flies from him with a home-made fan of peacock feathers, sewed to a long
cane.

"After the war, the 'bush-whackers', called Ku Klux, rode there. Preacher Pitts' brother was
one. They went to negro houses and killed the people. They wore caps over the head and eyes,
but no long white gowns. An old muster ground was above there about three miles, near what
is now Wadsworth school." I can't do much work except a little washing and ironing. My grandchildren
live with me. My other children help me a little when I need it. I heard about the 40 acres
of land and a mule the ex-slaves would get after the war, but I didn't pay any attention to
it. They never got anything. I think this was put out by the Yankees who didn't care about
much 'cept getting money for themselves.

"I come from the Indian Creek section of Newberry County. After about 1880 when things got
natural, some of the slaves from this section rented small one-horse farms and made their own
money and living. Some would rent small tracts of land on shares, giving the landlord one-half
the crop for use of the land.

"Everything is changed so much. I never learned to read and write and all I know is what I
heard in old times. But I think the younger generation of negroes is different from what they
used to be. They go where they want to and do what they want to and don't pay much attention
to old folks anymore.

"My mother's mother come from Virginia and my mother's father was born and raised in this county.
I don't remember anything about the Nat Turner Rebellion, and never heard anything about it.
We never had any slave up-risings in our neighborhood."

  Source: Frances Andrews (83), Newberry, S. C.
          Interviewer: G. L. Summer, Newberry, S. C. 8/11/37.

  Spartanburg, S. C.
  District No. 4
  May 27, 1937.
  Edited by
  R. V. Williams
  [~HW: Lambrigh~]

  Folk Lore: Folk Tales (negro)

"I was 'bout nine year ole when de big war broke loose. My pa and ma 'longed to de Scotts what
libbed in Jonesville Township. When I got big 'nough to work, I was gib to de youngest Scott
boy. Soon atter dis, Sherman come through Union County. No ma'm, I nebber seed Sherman but
I seed some of his soldiers. Dat's de time I run off in de wood and not narry a soul knowed
whar I was till de dus' had done settled in de big road.

"Every Sunday, Marse Scott sent us to church in one of his waggins. White folks rid to church
in de buggy and Marse went on de big saddle hoss. 'Bout dis time, Marse Scott went to Columbia
to git coffee and sugar. He stay mos' two weeks, kaize he drive two fine hosses to de buggy
'long wid a long hind end to fetch things to and fro in. De roads was real muddy and de hosses
haf to res' ever night. Den in Columbia, he would have a little 'joyment befo' he come back home."

Source: Miss Dorothy Lambright, W. Main St., Union, S. C. (Story told her by "Uncle Peter"
Seems like, I does know your face, but I been so sick all de year dat I can' hardly remember
nothin. Yes, sweetheart, I sho caught on to what you want. Oh, I wishes I did know somethin
bout dat old time war cause I tell you, if I been know anything, I would sho pour it out to
you. I got burn out here de other day en I ain' got near a thing left me, but a pair of stockings
en dat old coat dere on de bed. Dat how-come I stayin here wid Miss Celia. My husband, he dead
en she took me in over here for de present. No'um, I haven't never had a nine months child.
Reckon dat what ailin me now. Bein dat I never had no mother to care for me en give me a good
attention like, I caught so much of cold dat I ain' never been safe in de family way. Yes,
mam, I had my leg broke plenty times, but I ain' never been able to jump de time. Lord, I got
a misery in my back dere. I hope it ain' de pneumonias."

"Well, you see, I couldn' tell you nothin bout my mother cause I never didn' know nothin bout
my mother. My Jesus, my brother tell bout when dey had my mother layin out on de coolin board,
I went in de room whe' she was en axed her for somethin to eat en pushed her head dat way.
You know, I wouldn' touch my hand to do nothin like dat, but I never know. Dat it, de coolin
board, dat what dey used to have to lay all de dead people on, but dis day en time, de undertaker
takes dem en fixes dem up right nice, I say. I tellin you, I ain' had no sense since I lost
my people. Sometimes, I axes de Lord what he keepin me here for anyhow. Yes, mam, dat does
come to me often times in de night. Oh, it don' look like I gwine ever get no better in dis
life en if I don', I just prays to God to be saved. Yes, Lord, I prays to be lifted to a restful
home."

"Just like as I been hear talk, some of de people fare good in slavery time en some of dem
fare rough. Dat been accordin to de kind of task boss dey come up under. Now de poor colored
people in slavery time, dey give dem very little rest en would whip some of dem most to death.
Wouldn' none of dem daresen to go from one plantation to another widout dey had a furlough
from dey boss. Yes, mam, if dey been catch you comin back widout dat walkin paper de boss had
give you, great Jeruseleum, you would sho catch de devil next mornin. My blessed a mercy, hear
talk dey spill de poor nigger's blood awful much in slavery time. Hear heap of dem was free
long time fore dey been know it cause de white folks, dey wanted to keep dem in bondage. Oh,
my Lord, dey would cut dem so hard till dey just slash de flesh right off dem. Yes, mam, dey
call dat thing dey been whip dem wid de cat o' nine tail. No, darlin, I hear talk it been made
out of pretty leather plaited most all de way en den all dat part down to de bottom, dey just
left it loose to do de cuttin wid. Yes, honey, dem kind of whips was made out of pretty leather
like one of dese horse whips. Yes, mam, dat been how it was in slavery time."

"Yankees! Oh, I hear folks speak bout de Yankees plunderin through de country plenty times.
Hear bout de Yankees gwine all bout stealin white people silver. Say, everywhe' dey went en
found white folks wid silver, dey would just clean de place up. Dat de blessed truth, too,
cause dat exactly what I hear bout dem."

"Lord, pray Jesus, de white people sho been mighty proud to see dey niggers spreadin out in
dem days, so dey tell me. Yes, mam, dey was glad to have a heap of colored people bout dem
cause white folks couldn' work den no more den dey can work dese days like de colored people
can. Reckon dey love to have dey niggers back yonder just like dey loves to have dem dese days
to do what dey ain' been cut out to do. You see, dey would have two or three women on de plantation
dat was good breeders en dey would have chillun pretty regular fore freedom come here. You
know, some people does be right fast in catchin chillun. Yes'um, dey must been bless wid a
pile of dem, I say, en every colored person used to follow up de same name as dey white folks
been hear to."

"No'um, I never didn' go to none of dem cornshuckin en fodder pullin en all dem kind of thing.
Reckon while dey was at de cornshuckin, I must been somewhe' huntin somethin to eat. Den dem
kind of task was left to de men folks de most of de time cause it been so hot, dey was force
to strip to do dat sort of a job."

"Lord, I sho remembers dat earth shake good as anything. When it come on me, I was settin down
wid my foots in a tub of water. Yes, my Lord, I been had a age on me in de shake. I remember,
dere been such a shakin dat evenin, it made all de people feel mighty queer like. It just come
in a tremble en first thing I know, I felt de difference in de crack of de house. I run to
my sister Jessie cause she had been live in New York en she was well acquainted wid dat kind
of gwine on. She say, 'Josie, dis ain' nothin but dem shake I been tellin you bout, but dis
de first time it come here en you better be a prayin.' En, honey, everything white en colored
was emptied out of doors dat night. Lord, dey was scared. Great Jeruseleum! De people was scared
everywhe'. Didn' nobody know what to make of it. I tellin you, I betcha I was 30 years old
in de shake."

"Now, I guess time you get done gettin up all dem memorandums, you gwine have a pile. I tell
you, if you keep on, you sho gwine have a bale cause dere a lot of slavery people is spring
up till now. I ought to could fetch back more to speak to you bout, but just like I been tell
you, I wasn' never cared for by a mother en I is caught on to a heap of roughness just on account
dat I ain' never had a mother to have a care for me."

"Oh, de people never didn' put much faith to de doctors in dem days. Mostly, dey would use
de herbs in de fields for dey medicine. Dere two herbs, I hear talk of. Dey was black snake
root en Sampson snake root. Say, if a person never had a good appetite, dey would boil some
of dat stuff en mix it wid a little whiskey en rock candy en dat would sho give dem a sharp
appetite. See, it natural cause if you take a tablespoon of dat bitter medicine three times
a day like a person tell you, it bound to swell your appetite. Yes, mam, I know dat a mighty
good mixture."

"Oh, my Lord, child, de people was sho wiser in olden times den what dey be now. Dey been have
all kind of signs to forecast de times wid en dey been mighty true to de word, too. Say, when
you hear a cow low en cry so mournful like, it ain' gwine be long fore you hear tell of a death."

"Den dere one bout de rain. Say, sometimes de old rain crow stays in de air en hollers en if
you don' look right sharp, it gwine rain soon. Call him de rain crow. He hollers mostly like
dis, 'Goo-oop, goo-oop.' Like dat."

"De people used to have a bird for cold weather, too. Folks say, 'Don' you hear dat cold bird?
Look out, it gwine be cold tomorrow.' De cold bird, he a brown bird. If you can see him, he
a fine lookin bird, too. Yes'um, right large en strong lookin, but don' nobody hardly ever
see him dese days."

"En I reckon you hear talk bout dis one. Say, not to wash on de first day of de New Year cause
if you do, you will wash some of your family out de pot. Say, somebody will sho die. Dat right,
too. Den if possible, must boil some old peas on de first day of de New Year en must cook some
hog jowl in de pot wid dem. Must eat some of it, but don' be obliged to eat it all. En ought
to have everything clean up nicely so as to keep clean all de year. Say, must always put de
wash out on de line to be sure de day fore New Years en have all your garments clean."

"What my ideas bout de young folks dese days? Well, dey young folks en dey ain' young folks,
I say. Cose I don' bother up wid dem none, but I think wid my own weak judgment, dey quite
different from when I come along. Folks is awful funny dis day en time to my notion. Don' care
what people see dem do no time. I sho think dey worser den what dey used to be. De way I say
dey worser, I used to have to be back at such en such a time, if I went off, but now dey go
anytime dey want to en dey comes back anytime dey want to. I sho think dey worser. De fact
of it, I know dey worser." I was twelve years old the year the Confederate war started. My
father was John Ballard and my mother was Sallie Ballard. I had several brothers and sisters.
We belonged to Jim Aiken, a large landowner at Winnsboro. He owned land on which the town was
built. He had seven plantations. He was good to us and give us plenty to eat, and good quarters
to live in. His mistress was good, too; but one of his sons, Dr. Aiken, whipped some of de
niggers, lots. One time he whipped a slave for stealing. Some of his land was around four churches
in Winnsboro.

"We was allowed three pounds o' meat, one quart o' molasses, grits and other things each week--plenty
for us to eat.

"When freedom come, he told us we was free, and if we wanted to stay on with him, he would
do the best he could for us. Most of us stayed, and after a few months, he paid wages. After
eight months, some went to other places to work.

"The master's wife died and he married a daughter of Robert Gillam and moved to Greenville, S. C.

"The master always had a very big garden with plenty of vegetables. He had fifty hogs, and
I helped mind the hogs. He didn't raise much cotton, but raised lots of wheat and corn. He
made his own meal and flour from the mill on the creek; made home-made clothes with cards and
spinning wheels.

"They cooked in wide chimneys in a kitchen which was away off from the big house. They used
pots and skillets to cook with. The hands got their rations every Monday night. They got their
clothes to wear which they made on old spinning wheels, and wove them themselves.

"The master had his own tanyard and tanned his leather and made shoes for his hands.

"He had several overseers, white men, and some Negro foremen. They sometimes whipped the slaves,
that is the overseers. Once a nigger whipped the overseer and had to run away in the woods
and live so he wouldn't get caught. The nigger foremen looked after a set of slaves on any
special work. They never worked at night unless it was to bring in fodder or hay when it looked
like rain was coming. On rainy days, we shucked corn and cleaned up around the place.

"We had old brick ovens, lots of 'em. Some was used to make molasses from our own sugar cane
we raised.

"The master had a 'sick-house' where he took sick slaves for treatment, and kept a drug store
there. They didn't use old-time cures much, like herbs and barks, except sassafras root tea
for the blood.

"We didn't learn to read and write, but some learned after the war.

"My father run the blacksmith shop for the master on the place. I worked around the place.
The patrollers were there and we had to have a pass to get out any. The nigger children sometimes
played out in the road and were chased by patrollers. The children would run into the master's
place and the patrollers couldn't get them 'cause the master wouldn't let them. We had no churches
for slaves, but went to the white church and set in the gallery. After freedom, niggers built
'brush harbors' on the place.

"Slaves carried news from one plantation to another by riding mules or horses. They had to
be in quarters at night. I remember my mother rode side-saddle one Saturday night. I reckon
she had a pass to go; she come back without being bothered.

"Some games children played was, hiding switches, marbles, and maybe others. Later on, some
of de nigger boys started playing cards and got to gambling; some went to de woods to gamble.

"The old cotton gins on de farms were made of wooden screws, and it took all day to gin four
bales o' cotton.

"I was one of the first trustees that helped build the first colored folks' church in the town
of Greenwood. I am the only one now living. I married Alice Robinson, and had five sons and
one daughter, and have five or six grandchildren.

"Abraham Lincoln, I think, was a good man; had a big reputation. Couldn't tell much about Jefferson
Davis. Booker T. Washington--Everybody thinks he is a great man for the colored race.

"Of course I think slavery was bad. We is free now and better off to work. I think anybody
who is any count can work and live by himself.

"I joined de church when I was 17 years old, because a big preaching was going on after freedom
for the colored people.

"I think everybody should join the church and do right; can't get anywhere without it, and
do good."

  Source: William Ballard (88), Greenwood, S. C.
          Interviewed by: G. L. Summer, Newberry, S. C. (6/10/37)

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  CHARLEY BARBER
  EX-SLAVE 81 YEARS OLD.

Charley Barber lives in a shanty kind of house, situated on a plot of ground containing two
acres all his own. It is a mile and a half southeast of Winnsboro, S. C. He lives with an anaemic
daughter, Maggie, whose chief interests are a number of cats, about the premises, and a brindled,
crumple-horned cow that she ties out to graze every morning and milks at evening.

Charley is squat of figure, short neck, popeyed, and has white hair. He tills the two acres
and produces garden truck that he finds a sale for among the employees of the Winnsboro mills,
just across the railroad from his home. He likes to talk, and pricks up his ears,(so to speak),
whenever anything is related as having occurred in the past. He will importune those present
to hear his version of the event unusual.

"Well sah, dis is a pleasure to have you call 'pon me, howsomever it be unexpected dis mornin'.
Shoo! (driving the chickens out of the house) Shoo! Git out of here and go scratch a livin'
for them chickens, dat's followin' you yet, and you won't wean and git to layin' again. Fust
thing you know you'll be spoilin' de floor, when us is got company dis very minute. Scat! Maggie;
git them cats out de chairs long 'nough for Mr. Wood to set in one whilst he's come to see
me dis mornin'.

"And dat's it? You wants me to talk over de days dat am gone? How dis come 'bout and how dat
come 'bout, from de day I was born, to dis very hour? Let's light, up our smokestacks befo'
us begin. Maybe you wants a drink of, water. Maggie, fetch de water here!

"How old you think I is, sixty-five? My goodness! Do you hear dat Maggie? (Rubbing his hands;
his eyes shining with pleasure) Take another look and make another guess. Seventy-five? You
is growin' warm but you'll have to come again!

"Bless your soul Marse Wood, you know what old Mudder Shifton say? She 'low dat: 'In de year
1881, de world to an end will surely come'. I was twenty-five years old when all de niggers
and most of de white folks was believin' dat old lady and lookin' for de world to come to an
end in 1881. Dat was de year dat I jined de church, 'cause I wanted to make sure dat if de
end did come, I'd be caught up in dat rapture dat de white Methodist preacher was preachin'
'bout and explainin' to my marster and mistress at deir house on de piazza dat year.

"I is eighty-one years old. I was born up on de Wateree River, close to Great Falls. My marster
was Ozmond Barber. My mistress was name Miss Elizabeth; her de wife of Marse Ozmond. My pappy
was name Jacob. My mammy went by de name of Jemima. They both come from Africa where they was
born. They was 'ticed on a ship, fetch 'cross de ocean to Virginny, fetch to Winnsboro by a
slave drover, and sold to my marster's father. Dat what they tell me. When they was sailin'
over, dere was five or six hundred others all together down under de first deck of de ship,
where they was locked in. They never did talk lak de other slaves, could just' say a few words,
use deir hands, and make signs. They want deir collards, turnips, and deir 'tators, raw. They
lak sweet milk so much they steal it.

"Pappy care-nothin' 'bout clothes and wouldn't wear shoes in de winter time or any time. It
was 'ginst de law to bring them over here when they did, I learn since. But what is de law
now and what was de law then, when bright shiny money was in sight? Money make de automobile
go. Money make de train go. Money make de mare go, and at dat time I 'spect money make de ships
go. Yes sir, they, my pappy and mammy, was just smuggled in dis part of de world, I bet you!

"War come on, my marster went out as a captain of de Horse Marines. A tune was much sung by
de white folks on de place and took wid de niggers. It went lak dis:

  'I'm Captain Jenks of de Horse Marines
  I feed my horse on corn and beans.
  Oh! I'm Captain Jenks of de Horse Marines
  And captain in de army!'"

"When de Yankees come they seem to have special vengeance for my white folks. They took everything
they could carry off and burnt everything they couldn't carry off.

"Mistress and de chillun have to go to Chester to git a place to sleep and eat, wid kinfolks.
De niggers just lay 'round de place 'til master rode in, after de war, on a horse; him have
money and friends and git things goin' agin. I stay on dere 'til '76. Then I come to Winnsboro
and git a job as section hand laborer on de railroad. Out of de fust money,--(I git paid off
de pay train then; company run a special pay train out of Columbia to Charlotte. They stop
at every station and pay de hands off at de rear end of de train in cash). Well, as I was a
sayin': Out de fust money, I buys me a red shirt and dat November I votes and de fust vote
I put in de box was for Governor Wade Hampton. Dat was de fust big thing I done.

"De nex' big thing I done was fall in love wid Mary Wylie. Dat come 'bout on de second pay
day. De other nigger gals say her marry me for my money but I never have believed it. White
ladies do dat 'kalkilating' trick sometime but you take a blue-gum nigger gal, all wool on
de top of her head and lak to dance and jig wid her foots, to pattin' and fiddle music, her
ain't gonna have money in de back of her head when her pick out a man to marry. Her gonna want
a man wid muscles on his arms and back and I had them. Usin' dat pick and shovel on de railroad
just give me what it took to git Mary. Us had ten chillun. Some dead, some marry and leave.
My wife die year befo' last. Maggie is puny, as you see, and us gits 'long wid de goodness
of de Lord and de white folks.

"I b'longs to de St. John Methodist Church in Middlesix, part of Winnsboro. They was havin'
a rival (revival) meetin' de night of de earthquake, last day of August, in 1886. Folks had
hardly got over de scare of 1881, 'bout de world comin' to an end. It was on Tuesday night,
if I don't disremember, 'bout 9 o'clock. De preacher was prayin', just after de fust sermon,
but him never got to de amen part of dat prayer. Dere come a noise or rumblin', lak far off
thunder, seem lak it come from de northwest, then de church begin to rock lak a baby's cradle.
Dere was great excitement. Old Aunt Melvina holler: 'De world comin' to de end'. De preacher
say: 'Oh, Lordy', and run out of de pulpit. Everbody run out de church in de moonlight. When
de second quake come, 'bout a minute after de fust, somebody started up de cry: 'De devil under
de church! De devil under de church! De devil gwine to take de church on his back and run away
wid de church!' People never stop runnin' 'til they got to de court house in town. Dere they
'clare de devil done take St. John's Church on his back and fly away to hell wid it. Marse
Henry Galliard make a speech and tell them what it was and beg them to go home. Dat Mr. Skinner,
de telegraph man at de depot, say de main part of it was way down 'bout Charleston, too far
away for anybody to git hurt here, 'less a brick from a chimney fall on somebody's head. De
niggers mostly believes what a fine man, lak Marse Henry, tell them. De crowd git quiet. Some
of them go home but many of them, down in de low part of town, set on de railroad track in
de moonlight, all night. I was mighty sleepy de nex' mornin' but I work on de railroad track
just de same. Dat night folks come back to St. John's Church, find it still dere, and such
a outpourin' of de spirit was had as never was had befo' or since.

"Just think! Dat has been fifty-one years ago. Them was de glorious horse and buggy days. Dere
was no air-ships, no autos and no radios. White folks had horses to drive. Niggers had mules
to ride to a baseball game, to see white folks run lak de patarollers (patrollers) was after
them and they holler lak de world was on fire."

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  ED BARBER
  EX-SLAVE 77 YEARS OLD.

Ed Barber lives in a small one-room house in the midst of a cotton field on the plantation
of Mr. A. M. Owens, ten miles southeast of Winnsboro, S. C. He lives alone and does his own
cooking and housekeeping. He is a bright mulatto, has an erect carriage and posture, appears
younger than his age, is intelligent and enjoys recounting the tales of his lifetime. His own
race doesn't give him much countenance. His friends in the old days of reconstruction were
white people. He presumes on such past affiliation and considers himself better than the full-blooded
Negro.

"It's been a long time since I see you. Maybe you has forgot but I ain't forgot de fust time
I put dese lookers on you, in '76. Does you 'members dat day? It was in a piece of pines beyond
de Presbyterian Church, in Winnsboro, S. C. Us both had red shirts. You was a ridin' a gray
pony and I was a ridin' a red mule, sorrel like. You say dat wasn't '76? Well, how come it
wasn't? Ouillah Harrison, another nigger, was dere, though he was a man. Both of us got to
arguin'. He 'low he could vote for Hampton and I couldn't, 'cause I wasn't 21. You say it was
'78 'stead of '76, dat day in de pines when you was dere? Well! Well! I sho' been thinkin'
all dis time it was '76.

"'Member de fight dat day when Mr. Pole Barnadore knock Mr. Blanchard down, while de speakin'
was a gwine on? You does? Well, us come to common 'greement on dat, bless God!

"Them was scary times! Me bein' just half nigger and half white man, I knowed which side de
butter was on de bread. Who I see dere? Well, dere was a string of red shirts a mile long,
dat come into Winnsboro from White Oak. And another from Flint Hill, over de Pea Ferry road,
a mile long. De bar-rooms of de town did a big business dat day. Seem lak it was de fashion
to git drunk all 'long them days.

"Them red shirts was de monkey wrench in de cotton-gin of de carpet bag party. I's here to
tell you. If a nigger git hungry, all he have to do is go to de white folk's house, beg for
a red shirt, and explain hisself a democrat. He might not git de shirt right then but he git
his belly full of everything de white folks got, and de privilege of comin' to dat trough sometime
agin.

"You wants me to tell you 'bout who I is, where I born, and how old I is? Well, just cross
examine me and I'll tell you de facts as best I knows how.

"I was born twelve miles east of Winnsboro, S. C. My marster say it was de 18th of January, 1860.

"My mother name Ann. Her b'long to my marster, James Barber. Dat's not a fair question when
you ask me who my daddy was. Well, just say he was a white man and dat my mother never did
marry nobody, while he lived. I was de onliest child my mother ever had.

"After freedom my mother raised me on de Marse Adam Barber place, up by Rocky Mount and Mitford.
I stayed dere 'til all de 'citement of politics die down. My help was not wanted so much at
de 'lection boxes, so I got to roamin' 'round to fust one place and then another. But wheresomever
I go, I kept a thinkin' 'bout Rosa and de ripe may-pops in de field in cotton pickin' time.
I landed back to de Barber place and after a skirmish or two wid de old folks, marry de gal
de Lord always 'tended for me to marry. Her name was Rosa Ford. You ask me if she was pretty?
Dat's a strange thing. Do you ever hear a white person say a colored woman is pretty? I never
have but befo' God when I was trampin' 'round Charleston, dere was a church dere called St.
Mark, dat all de society folks of my color went to. No black nigger welcome dere, they told
me. Thinkin' as how I was bright 'nough to git in, I up and goes dere one Sunday. Ah, how they
did carry on, bow and scrape and ape de white folks. I see some pretty feathers, pretty fans,
and pretty women dere! I was uncomfortable all de time though, 'cause they was too 'hifalootin'
in de ways, in de singin', and all sorts of carryin' ons.

"Glad you fetch me back to Rosa. Us marry and had ten chillun. Francis, Thompkins, William,
Jim, Levi, Ab and Oz is dead. Katie marry a Boykin and is livin' in New York. My wife, Rosa,
die on dis place of Mr. Owens.

"I lives in a house by myself. I hoes a little cotton, picks plums and blackberries but dewberries
'bout played out.

"My marster, James Barber, went through de Civil War and died. I begs you, in de name of de
good white folks of '76 and Wade Hampton, not to forget me in dis old age pension business.

"What I think of Abe Lincoln? I think he was a poor buckra white man, to de likes of me. Although,
I 'spects Mr. Lincoln meant well but I can't help but wish him had continued splittin' them
fence rails, which they say he knowed all 'bout, and never took a hand in runnin' de government
of which he knowed nothin' 'bout. Marse Jeff Davis was all right, but him oughta got out and
fought some, lak General Lee, General Jackson and 'Poleon Bonaparte. Us might have won de war
if he had turned up at some of de big battles lak Gettysburg, 'Chickenmaroger', and 'Applemattox'.
What you think 'bout dat?

"Yes sah, I has knowed a whole lot of good white men. Marse General Bratton, Marse Ed P. Mobley,
Marse Will Durham, dat owned dis house us now settin' in, and Dr. Henry Gibson. Does I know
any good colored men? I sho' does! Dere's Professor Benjamin Russell at Blackstock. You knows
him. Then dere was Ouillah Harrison, dat own a four-hoss team and a saddle hoss, in red shirt
days. One time de brass band at Winnsboro, S. C. wanted to go to Camden, S. C. to play at de
speakin' of Hampton. He took de whole band from Winnsboro to Camden, dat day, free of charge.
Ah! De way dat band did play all de way to Ridgeway, down de road to Longtown, cross de Camden
Ferry, and right into de town. Dere was horns a blowin', drums a beatin', and people a shoutin':
'Hurrah for Hampton!' Some was a singin': 'Hang Dan Chamberlain on a Sour Apple Tree'. Ouillah
come home and found his wife had done had a boy baby. What you reckon? He name dat boy baby,
Wade Hampton. When he come home to die, he lay his hand on dat boy's head and say: 'Wade, 'member
who you name for and always vote a straight out democrat ticket'. Which dat boy did!"

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  MILLIE BARBER
  EX-SLAVE 82 YEARS OLD.

"Hope you find yourself well dis mornin', white folks. I's just common; 'spect I eats too much
yesterday. You know us celebrated yesterday, 'cause it was de Fourth of July. Us had a good
dinner on dis 2,000 acre farm of Mr. Owens. God bless dat white boss man! What would us old
no 'count niggers do widout him? Dere's six or seven, maybe eight of us out here over eighty
years old. 'Most of them is like me, not able to hit a lick of work, yet he take care of us;
he sho' does.

"Mr. Owens not a member of de church but he allowed dat he done found out dat it more blessed
to give than to receive, in case like us.

"You wants to know all 'bout de slavery time, de war, de Ku Kluxes and everything? My tongue
too short to tell you all dat I knows. However, if it was as long as my stockin's, I could
tell you a trunk full of good and easy, bad and hard, dat dis old life-stream have run over
in eighty-two years. I's hoping to reach at last them green fields of Eden of de Promise Land.
'Scuse me ramblin' 'round, now just ask me questions; I bet I can answer all you ask.

"My pa name, Tom McCullough; him was a slave of old Marster John McCullough, whose big two-story
house is de oldest in Fairfield County. It stands today on a high hill, just above de banks
of Dutchman Creek. Big road run right by dat house. My mammy name, Nicie. Her b'long to de
Weir family; de head of de family die durin' de war of freedom. I's not supposed to know all
he done, so I'll pass over dat. My mistress name, Eliza; good mistress. Have you got down dere
dat old marster just took sick and die, 'cause he wasn't touched wid a bullet nor de life slashed
out of him wid a sword?

"Well, my pa b'longin' to one man and my mammy b'longin' to another, four or five miles apart,
caused some confusion, mix-up, and heartaches. My pa have to git a pass to come to see my mammy.
He come sometimes widout de pass. Patrollers catch him way up de chimney hidin' one night;
they stripped him right befo' mammy and give him thirty-nine lashes, wid her cryin' and a hollerin'
louder than he did.

"Us lived in a log house; handmade bedstead, wheat straw mattress, cotton pillows, plenty coverin'
and plenty to eat, sich as it was. Us never git butter or sweet milk or coffee. Dat was for
de white folks but in de summer time, I minds de flies off de table wid the peafowl feather
brush and eat in de kitchen just what de white folks eat; them was very good eatin's I's here
for to tell you. All de old slaves and them dat worked in de field, got rations and de chillun
were fed at de kitchen out-house. What did they git? I 'members they got peas, hog meat, corn
bread, 'lasses, and buttermilk on Sunday, then they got greens, turnips, taters, shallots,
collards, and beans through de week. They were kept fat on them kind of rations.

"De fact is I can't 'member us ever had a doctor on de place; just a granny was enough at child
birth. Slave women have a baby one day, up and gwine 'round de next day, singin' at her work
lak nothin' unusual had happened.

"Did I ever git a whippin'? Dat I did. How many times? More than I can count on fingers and
toes. What I git a whippin' for? Oh, just one thing, then another. One time I break a plate
while washin' dishes and another time I spilt de milk on de dinin' room floor. It was always
for somethin', sir. I needed de whippin'.

"Yes sir, I had two brothers older than me; one sister older than me and one brother younger
than me.

"My young marster was killed in de war. Their names was Robert, Smith, and Jimmie. My young
mistress, Sarah, married a Sutton and moved to Texas. Nancy marry Mr. Wade Rawls. Miss Janie
marry Mr. Hugh Melving. At this marriage my mammy was give to Miss Janie and she was took to
Texas wid her young baby, Isaiah, in her arms. I have never seen or heard tell of them from
dat day to dis.

"De Yankees come and burn de gin-house and barns. Open de smokehouse, take de meat, give de
slaves some, shoot de chickens, and as de mistress and girls beg so hard, they left widout
burnin' de dwellin' house.

"My oldest child, Alice, is livin' and is fifty-one years old de 10th of dis last May gone.
My first husband was Levi Young; us lived wid Mr. Knox Picket some years after freedom. We
moved to Mr. Rubin Lumpkin's plantation, then to George Boulwares. Well, my husband die and
I took a fool notion, lak most widows, and got into slavery again. I marry Prince Barber; Mr.
John Hollis, Trial Justice, tied de knot. I loved dat young nigger more than you can put down
dere on paper, I did. He was black and shiny as a crow's wing. Him was white as snow to dese
old eyes. Ah, the joy, de fusses, de ructions, de beatin's, and de makin' ups us had on de
Ed Shannon place where us lived. Us stay dere seven long years.

"Then de Klu Kluxes comed and lak to scared de life out of me. They ask where Prince was, searched
de house and go away. Prince come home 'bout daylight. Us took fright, went to Marster Will
Durham's and asked for advice and protection. Marster Will Durham fixed it up. Next year us
moved to dis place, he own it then but Marster Arthur Owens owns it now. Dere is 2,000 acres
in dis place and another 1,000 acres in de Rubin Lumpkin place 'joinin' it.

"Prince die on dis place and I is left on de mercy of Marster Arthur, livin' in a house wid
two grandchillun, James twelve years, and John Roosevelt Barber, eight years old. Dese boys
can work a little. They can pick cotton and tote water in de field for de hands and marster
say: 'Every little help'.

"My livin' chillun ain't no help to me. Dere's Willie, I don't know where he is. Prince is
wid Mr. Freeman on de river. Maggie is here on de place but she no good to me.

"I 'spect when I gits to drawin' down dat pension de white folks say is comin', then dere will
be more folks playin' in my backyard than dere is today."

  Project 1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  ANDERSON BATES
  EX-SLAVE 87 YEARS OLD.

Anderson Bates lives with his son-in-law and daughter, Ed and Dora Owens, in a three-room frame
house, on lands of Mr. Dan Heyward, near the Winnsboro Granite Company, Winnsboro, S. C. Anderson
and his wife occupy one of the rooms and his rent is free. His son-in-law has regular employment
at the Winnsboro Cotton Mills. His wife, Carrie, looks after the house. Anderson and his daughter,
Dora, are day laborers on the neighborhood farms, but he is able to do very little work.

"I was born on de old Dr. Furman place, near Jenkinsville, S. C., in de year, 1850. My pappy
was name Nat and mammy name Winnie. They was slaves of old Dr. Furman, dat have a big plantation,
one hundred slaves, and a whole lot of little slave chillun, dat him wouldn't let work. They
run 'round in de plum thickets, blackberry bushes, hunt wild strawberries, blow cane whistles,
and have a good time.

"De old Dr. Furman house is ramshackle but it is still standin' out dere and is used as a shelter
for sawmill hands dat is cuttin' down de big pines and sawin' them on de place.

"Where did my pappy and mammy come from? Mammy was born a slave in de Furman family in Charleston,
but pappy was bought out of a drove dat a Baltimore speculator fetch from Maryland long befo'
de war. Doctor practice all 'round and 'bout Monticello, happen 'long one day, see my pappy
and give a thousand dollars for him, to dat speculator. I thank God for dat!

"Dr. Furman, my old marster, have a brudder called Jim, dat run de Furman School, fust near
Winnsboro, then it move to Greenville, S. C.

"My mistress name Nancy. Her was of de quality. Her voice was soft and quiet to de slaves.
Her teach us to sing:

  'Dere is a happy land, far, far 'way,
  Where bright angels stand, far, far 'way,
  Oh! How them angels sing!
  Oh! How them bells ring!
  In dat happy land, far, far 'way!'

"Dere was over a thousand acres, maybe two thousand in dat old Furman place. Them sawmill folks
give $30,000.00 for it, last year.

"My pappy and mammy was field hands. My brudders and sisters was: Liddie, Millie, Ria, Ella,
Harriet, Thomas, Smith, and Marshall. All dead but me and Marshall.

"I was fifteen when de Yankees come thru. They took off everything, hosses, mules, cows, sheep,
goats, turkeys, geese, and chickens. Hogs? Yes sah, they kill hogs and take off what parts
they want and leave other parts bleedin' on de yard. When they left, old marster have to go
up into Union County for rations.

"Dat's funny, you wants to set down dere 'bout my courtship and weddin'? Well, sir, I stay
on de old plantation, work for my old marster, de doctor, and fell head over heels in love
wid Carrie. Dere was seven more niggers a flyin' 'round dat sugar lump of a gal in de night
time when I breezes in and takes charge of de fireside cheer. I knocks one down one night,
kick another out de nex' night, and choke de stuffin' out of one de nex' night. I landed de
three-leg stool on de head of de fourth one, de last time. Then de others carry deir 'fections
to some other place than Carrie's house. Us have some hard words 'bout my bad manners, but
I told her dat I couldn't 'trol my feelin's wid them fools a settin' 'round dere gigglin' wid
her. I go clean crazy!

"Then us git married and go to de ten-acre quarry wid Mr. Anderson. I work dere a while and
then go to Captain Macfie, then to his son, Wade, and then to Marse Rice Macfie. Then I go
back to de quarry, drill and git out stone. They pay me $3.50 a day 'til de Parr Shoals Power
come in wid 'lectric power drills and I was cut down to eighty cents a day. Then I say: 'Old
grey hoss! Damn 'lectric toolin', I's gwine to leave.' I went to Hopewell, Virginia, and work
wid de DuPonts for five years. War come on and they ask me to work on de acid area. De atmosphere
dere tear all de skin off my face and arms, but I stuck it out to de end of de big war, for
$7.20 a day. I drunk a good deal of liquor then, but I sent money to Carrie all de time and
fetch her a roll every fourth of July and on Christmas. After de war they dismantle de plant
and I come back to work for Mr. Eleazer, on de Saluda River for $2.00 a day, for five years.

"Carrie have chillun by me. Dere was Anderson, my son, ain't see him in forty years. Essie,
my daughter, marry Herbert Perrin. Dora, another daughter, marry Ed Owens. Ed makes good money
workin' at de factory in Winnsboro. They have seven chillun. Us tries to keep them chillun
in school but they don't have de good times I had when a child, a eatin' cracklin' bread and
buttermilk, liver, pig-tails, hog-ears and turnip greens.

"Does I 'member anything 'bout de Klu Kluxes? Jesus, yes! My old marster, de doctor, in goin'
'round, say out loud to people dat Klu Kluxes was doin' some things they ought not to do, by
'stortin' money out of niggers just 'cause they could.

"When he was gone to Union one day, a low-down pair of white men come, wid false faces, to
de house and ask where Dick Bell was. Miss Nancy say her don't know. They go hunt for him.
Dick made a bee-line for de house. They pull out hoss pistols, fust time, 'pow'. Dick run on,
secon' time, 'pow'. Dick run on, third time, 'pow' and as Dick reach de front yard de ball
from de third shot keel him over lak a hit rabbit. Old miss run out but they git him. Her say:
'I give you five dollars to let him 'lone.' They say: 'Not 'nough.' Her say: 'I give you ten
dollars.' They say: 'Not 'nough.' Her say: 'I give you fifteen dollars.' They say: 'Not 'nough.'
Her say: 'I give you twenty-five dollars.' They take de money and say: 'Us'll be back tomorrow
for de other Dick.' They mean Dick James.

"Nex' day, us see them a comin' again. Dick James done load up de shotgun wid buckshot. When
they was comin' up de front steps, Uncle Dick say to us all in de big house: 'Git out de way!'
De names of de men us find out afterwards was Bishop and Fitzgerald. They come up de steps,
wid Bishop in de front. Uncle Dick open de door, slap dat gun to his shoulder, and pull de
trigger. Dat man Bishop hollers: 'Oh Lordy.' He drop dead and lay dere 'til de coroner come.
Fitzgerald leap 'way. They bring Dick to jail, try him right in dat court house over yonder.
What did they do wid him? Well, when Marse Bill Stanton, Marse Elisha Ragsdale and Miss Nancy
tell 'bout it all from de beginnin' to de end, de judge tell de jury men dat Dick had a right
to protect his home, and hisself, and to kill dat white man and to turn him loose. Dat was
de end of de Klu Kluxes in Fairfield."

  Project 1885-1
  From Field Notes
  Spartanburg, Dist. 4
  April 28. All de women
folks, both black as well as white wuz so glad to see 'em back dat we
jus jumped up and hollered 'Oh, Lawdy, God bless you.' When you would
look around a little, you would see some widout an arm or maybe dey
would be a walkin' wid a cruch or a stick. Den you would cry some widout
lettin your white folks see you. But Jane, de worsest time of all fer us
darkies wuz when de Ku Klux killed Dan Black. We wuz little chilluns a
playin' in Dans house. We didn't know he had done nothin' ginst de white
folks. Us wuz a playin by de fire jus as nice when something hit on de
wall. Dan, he jump up and try to git outten de winder. A white spooky
thing had done come in de doo' right by me. I was so scairt dat I could
not git up. I had done fell straight out on de flo'. When Dan stick his
head outten dat winder something say bang and he fell right down in de
flo'. I crawles under de bed. When I got dar, all de other chilluns wuz
dar to, lookin' as white as ashed dough from hickory wood. Us peeped out
and den us duck under de bed agin. Ain't no bed ebber done as much good
as dat one. Den a whole lot of dem come in de house. De wuz all white
and scairy lookin'. It still makes de shivvers run down my spine and
here I is ole and you all a settin' around wid me and two mo' wars done
gone since dat awful time. Dan Black, he wo'nt no mo' kaise dey took dat
nigger and hung him to a simmon tree. Dey would not let his folks take
him down either. He jus stayed dar till he fell to pieces.

"After dat when us chilluns seed de Ku Klux a comin', us would take an' run breakneck speed
to de nearest wood. Dar we would stay till dey wuz plum out o' sight and you could not even
hear de horses feet. Dem days wuz worse'n de war. Yes Lawd, dey wuz worse'n any war I is ebber
heard of.

"Was not long after dat fore de spooks wuz a gwine round ebber whar. When you would go out
atter dark, somethin' would start to a haintin' ye. You would git so scairt dat you would mighty
ni run every time you went out atter dark; even iffin you didn't see nothin'. Chile, don't
axe me what I seed. Atter all dat killin' and a burnin' you know you wuz bliged to see things
wid all dem spirits in distress a gwine all over de land. You see, it is like dis, when a man
gits killed befo he is done what de good Lawd intended fer him to do, he comes back here and
tries to find who done him wrong. I mean he don' come back hisself, but de spirit, it is what
comes and wanders around. Course, it can't do nothin', so it jus scares folks and haints dem."

  Source: "Aunt" Only those who have traveled this way before could
locate the 'turn in' to Uncle Welcome's house. When you have turned in
and come suddenly out from the plum thicket you find your road winding
along with cultivated patches on the left--corn and peas--a fenced-in
garden, the palings riven out by hand, and thick dark woods on the left.
A lonesome, untenanted cabin is seemingly in the way but your car swings
to the left instead of climbing the door-step and suddenly you find you
are facing a bog. The car may get through; it may not. So you switch off
and just sit a minute, seeing how the land lies. A great singing and
chopping of wood off to the left have kept the inmates from hearing the
approach of a car. When you rap therefore you hear, 'Come in'.

A narrow hall runs through to the back porch and off this hall on your right opens a door from
beyond which comes a very musical squeaking--you know a rocking chair is going hard--even before
you see it in motion with a fuzzy little head that rests on someone's shoulder sticking over
the top. And the fuzzy head which in size is like a small five-cent cocoanut, belongs to Uncle
Welcome's great-grand. On seeing a visitor the grand, the mother of the infant, rises and smiles
greeting, and, learning your errand, points back to the kitchen to show where Uncle Welcome
sits. You step down one step and ask him if you may come in and he pats a chair by his side.
The old man isn't so spry as he was when you saw him in the fall; the winter has been hard.
But here it is warm again and at most four in the April afternoon, he sits over his plate of
hopping John--he and innumerable flies. At his feet, fairly under the front of a small iron
stove, sits another great-grand with a plate of peas between her legs. Peas and rice, 'hopping
John'. (Someone says peas and hominy cooked together makes "limping Lizzie in the Low-Country."
But that is another story.)

       *       *       *       *       *

"Uncle Welcome, isn't Uncle Jeemes Stuart the oldest liver on Sandy Island?" Welcome: "Jeemes
Stuart? I was married man when he born. Jeemes rice-field. (Worker in rice-field) posed himself.
In all kinds of weather. Cut you down, down, down. Jeemes second wife gal been married before
but her husband dead.

"I couldn't tell the date or time I born. Your Maussa (Master) take it down. When I been marry,
Dr. Ward Fadder (Father) aint been marry yet. My mother had twelve head born Oatland. He bought
my mother from Virginia. Dolly. Sam her husband name. Sam come from same course. When my mother
been bought, her been young woman. Work in rice. Plow right now (Meaning April is time to plow
rice fields). I do carpenter work and mind horse for plantation. Come from Georgetown in boat.
Have you own carriage. Go anywhere you want to go. Oatland church build for colored people
and po-buckra. I helped build that church. The boss man, Mr. Bettman. My son Isaac sixty-nine.
If him sixty-nine, I one hundred four. That's my record. Maussa didn't low you to marry till
you twenty-two. Ben Allston own Turkey Hill. When him dead, I was twelve years old. Me! (Knocking
his chest)"

  Welcome Bees--
  Parkersville, S. C.
  (Near Waverly Mills, S. C.)
  Age 104.

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  ANNE BELL
  EX-SLAVE 83 YEARS OLD.
  ~HW: (near Winnsboro, S. C.)~]

Anne Bell lives with her niece, in a one-room annex to a two-room frame house, on the plantation
of Mr. Lake Howze, six miles west of Winnsboro, S. C. Her niece's husband, Golden Byrd, is
a share-cropper on Mr. Howze's place. The old lady is still spry and energetic about the cares
of housekeeping and attention to the small children of her niece. She is a delightful old lady
and well worth her keep in the small chores she undertakes and performs in the household.

"My marster was John Glazier Rabb; us call him Marse Glazier. My mistress was Nancy Kincaid
Watts; us call her Miss Nancy. They lived on a big plantation in Fairfield County and dere
I come into dis world, eighty-three years ago, 10th day of April past.

"My pappy name just Andy but after de freedom, he took de name of Andrew Watts. My old mammy
was Harriett but she come to you if you calls her Hattie. My brudders was Jake and Rafe. My
sister name Charity. They all dead and gone to glory long time ago; left me here 'lone by myself
and I's settin' here tellin' you 'bout them.

"My mammy was de cook at de 'Big House' for marster, Miss Nancy, and de chillun. Let me see
if I can call them over in my mind. Dere was Marse John, went off to de war, color bearer at
Seven Pines. Yes sir, him was killed wid de colors a flyin' in his hand. Heard tell of it many
times. He lies right now in de old Buck Church graveyard. De pine trees, seven of them, cry
and sob 'round him every August 6th; dat's de day he was killed. Oh, my God!

"Marse James went wid old Colonel Rion. They say he got shot but bullets couldn't kill him.
No, bless God! Him comed back. Then come Marse Clarence. He went wid Captain Jim Macfie, went
through it all and didn't get a scratch. Next was Miss Jesse. Then come Marse Horace, and Miss
Nina. Us chillun all played together. Marse Horace is livin' yet and is a fine A. R.P. preacher
of de Word. Miss Nina a rich lady, got plantation but live 'mong de big bugs in Winnsboro.
She married Mr. Castles; she is a widow now. He was a good man, but he dead now.

"De one I minds next, is Charlie. I nussed him. He married Colonel Province's daughter. Dat's
all I can call to mind, right now.

"Course de white folks I b'longs to, had more slaves than I got fingers and toes; whole families
of them. De carpenter and de blacksmith on de place made de bedsteads. Us had good wheat straw
mattresses to sleep on; cotton quilts, spreads, and cotton pillows. No trouble to sleep but
it was hard to hear dat white overseer say at day break: 'Let me hear them foots hit de floor
and dat befo' I go! Be lively! Hear me?' And you had to answer, 'Yas sah', befo' he'd move
on to de nex' house. I does 'member de parts of de bed, was held together by wooden pins. I
sho' 'members dat!

"Mammy Harriett was de cook. I didn't done no work but 'tend to de chillun and tote water.

"Money? Go 'way from here, boss! Lord, no sir, I never saw no money. What I want wid it anyhow?

"How did they feed us? Had better things to eat then, than now and more different kind of somethin's.
Us had pears, 'lasses, shorts, middlings of de wheat, corn bread, and all kinds of milk and
vegetables.

"Got a whuppin' once. They wanted me to go after de turkeys and I didn't want to go past de
graveyard, where de turkeys was. I sho' didn't want to go by them graves. I's scared now to
go by a graveyard in de dark. I took de whuppin' and somebody else must have got de turkeys.
Sho' I didn't drive them up!

"Slaves spun de thread, loomed de cloth, and made de clothes for de plantation. Don't believe
I had any shoes. I was just a small gal anyhow then, didn't need them and didn't want them.

"Yes, I's seen nigger women plow. Church? I wouldn't fool you, all de slaves big enough and
not sick, had to go to church on de Sabbath.

"They give us a half Saturday, to do as we like.

"I was 'bout ten years old when de Yankees come. They was full to de brim wid mischief. They
took de frocks out de presses and put them on and laugh and carry on powerful. Befo' they went
they took everything. They took de meat and 'visions out de smoke-house, and de 'lasses, sugar,
flour, and meal out de house. Killed de pigs and cows, burnt de gin-house and cotton, and took
off de live stock, geese, chickens and turkeys.

"After de freedom, I stayed on wid mammy right dere, 'til I married Levi Bell. I's had two
chillun. Dis my grand-daughter, I visitin'. I never 'spects to have as good a home as I had
in slavery time, 'til I gits my title to dat mansion in de sky. Dats de reason I likes to sing
dat old plantation spiritual, 'Swing Low Sweet Chariot, Jesus Gwinter Carry me Home'. Does
I believe in 'ligion? What else good for colored folks? I ask you if dere ain't a heaven, what's
colored folks got to look forward to? They can't git anywhere down here. De only joy they can
have here, is servin' and lovin'; us can git dat in 'ligion but dere is a limit to de nigger
in everything else. Course I knows my place in dis world; I 'umbles myself here to be 'zalted
up yonder."

  Project 1885-1
  FOLKLORE
  Spartanburg, Dist. 4
  July 26, 1937
  Edited by:
  Elmer Turnage

  SLAVERY REMINISCENCES

"I was raised in the wood across the road about 200 yards from here. I was very mischievous.
My parents were honest and were Christians. I loved them very much. My father was William Bevis,
who died at the age of eighty. Miss Zelia Hames of Pea Ridge was my mother. My parents are
buried at Bethlehem Methodist Church. I was brought up in Methodism and I do not know anything
else. I had two brothers and four sisters. My twin sister died last April 1937. She was Fannie
Holcombe. I was in bed with pneumonia at the time of her death and of course I could not go
to the funeral. For a month, I was unconscious.

"When I was a little girl I played 'Andy-over' with a ball, in the moonlight. Later I went
to parties and dances. Calico, chambric and gingham were the materials which our party dresses
were made of.

"My grandmother, Mrs. Phoebe Bevis used to tell Revolutionary stories and sing songs that were
sung during that period. Grandmother knew some Tories. She always told me that old Nat Gist
was a Tory ... that is the way he got rich.

"Hampton was elected governor the morning my mother died. Father went in his carriage to Jonesville
to vote for Hampton. We all thought that Hampton was fine.

"When I was a school girl I used the blue back speller. My sweetheart's name was Ben Harris.
We went to Bethlehem to school. Jeff and Bill Harris were our teachers. I was thirteen. We
went together for six years. The Confederate War commenced. He was very handsome. He had black
eyes and black hair. I had seven curls on one side of my head and seven on the other. He was
twenty-four when he joined the 'Boys of Sixteen'.

"He wanted to marry me then, but father would not let us marry. He kissed me good bye and went
off to Virginia. He was a picket and was killed while on duty at Mars Hill. Bill Harris was
in a tent nearby and heard the shot. He brought Ben home. I went to the funeral. I have never
been much in-love since then.

"I hardly ever feel sad. I did not feel especially sad during the war. I made socks, gloves
and sweaters for the Confederate soldiers and also knitted for the World War soldiers. During
the war, there were three looms and three shuttles in our house.

"I went often to the muster grounds at Kelton to see the soldiers drill and to flirt my curls
at them. Pa always went with me to the muster field. Once he invited four recruits to dine
with us. We had a delicious supper. That was before the Confederacy was paralyzed. Two darkies
waited on our table that night, Dorcas and Charlotte. A fire burned in our big fireplace and
a lamp hung over the table. After supper was over, we all sat around the fire in its flickering
light.

"My next lover was Jess Holt and he was drowned in the Mississippi River. He was a carpenter
and was building a warf on the river. He fell in and was drowned in a whirlpool." Yuh see I
wus jes uh young child when de free war close en I ain' know much to tell yuh. I born o'er
de river dere to Massa Jim Wilkerson plantation. Don' know wha' 'come uv my ole Massa chillun
a'ter dey head been gone. Yuh see, honey, Massa Jim Wilkerson hab uh heap uv slave en he hire
my mudder out to Colonel Durant place right down de road dere whey Miss Durant lib now. Coase
I been back o'er de river to visit 'mongest de peoples dere a'ter freedom wuz 'clare, but I
ain' ne'er lib dere no more."

"Gawd been good to me, honey. I been heah uh long ole time en I can' see mucha dese days, but
I gettin' 'long sorta so-so. I wuz train up to be uh nu'se 'oman en I betcha I got chillun
more den any 60 year ole 'bout heah now dat I nu'se when dey wuz fust come heah. No, honey,
ain' got no chillun uv me own. Aw my chillun white lak yuh."

"No, no'mam, dey wear long ole frock den en uh girl comin' on dere when dey ge' to be any kind
uv uh girl, dey put dat frock down. Oh, my child, dey can' ge' em short 'nough dese days. Ain'
hab nuthin but uh string on dese day en time. Dey use'er wear dem big ole hoop skirt dat sit
out broad lak from de ankle en den dey wear little panty dat show down twixt dey skirt en dey
ankle. Jes tie em 'round dey knees wid some sorta string en le' em show dat way 'bout dey ankle.
I 'member we black chillun'ud go in de woods en ge' wild grape vine en bend em round en put
em under us skirt en make it stand out big lak. Hadder hab uh big ole ring fa de bottom uv
de skirt en den one uh little bit smaller eve'y time dey ge' closer to de waist. Ne'er hab
none tall in de waist cause dat wuz s'ppose to be little bitty t'ing."

"Dey weave aw de cloth dey use den right dere on de plantation. Wear cotton en woolens aw de
time den. Coase de Madam, she could go en ge' de finest kind uv silk cause mos' uv her t'ing
come from 'broad. Child, I c'n see my ole mammy how she look workin' dat spinning wheel jes
us good uz ef dat day wuz dis day right heah. She set dere at dat ole spinning wheel en take
one shettle en t'row it one way en den annuder de udder way en pull dat t'ing en make it tighter
en tighter. Sumptin say zum, zum, zum, en den yuh hadder work yuh feet dere too. Dat wuz de
way dey make dey cloth dat day en time."

"Honey, peoples hadder work dey hand fa eve'yt'ing dey hab mos' den. Dey grew dey own rice
right dere on de plantation in dem days. Hadder plant it on some uv de land wha' wuz weter
den de udder land wuz. Dey hadder le' de rice ge' good en ripe en den dey'ud cut it en hab
one uv dem big rice whipping days. Heap uv people come from plantation aw 'bout en help whip
dat rice. Dey jes take de rice en beat it 'cross some hoes dat dey hab fix up somewhey dere
on de plantation. Honey, dey hab hoss jes lak dese hoss yuh see carpenter use 'boat heah dese
days. Dey'ud hab hundreds uv bushels uv dat rice dere. Den when dey ge' t'rough, dey hab big
supper dere fa aw dem wha' whip rice. Gi'e em aw de rice en hog head dey is e'er wan'. Man,
dey'ud hab de nicest kind uv music dere. Knock dem bones togedder en slap en pat dey hands
to aw kind uv pretty tune."

"Dem dey hab rice mortars right dere on de plantation wha' dey fix de rice in jes uz nice.
Now dey hab to take it to de mill. Yuh see dey hab uh big block outer in de yard wid uh big
hole in it dat dey put de rice in en take dese t'ing call pestles en beat down on it en dat
wha' knock de shaft offen it. Coase dey ne'er hab no nice pretty rice lak yuh see dese days
cause it wusn't uz white uz de rice dat dey hab 'boat heah dis day en time, but it wuz mighty
sweet rice, honey, mighty sweet rice."

"No'mam, didn't hab no schools tall den. Ne'er gi'e de colored peoples no l'arnin' no whey
'fore freedom 'clare. Wha' little l'arnin' come my way wuz wha' I ge' when I stay wid Miss
Martha Leggett down dere to Leggett's Mill Pond. A'ter freedom 'clare, uh lady from de north
come dere en Miss Leggett send we chillun to school to dat lady up on de hill dere in de woods.
No, honey, yah ain' ne'er see no bresh tent 'bout heah dis day en time. Dis jes de way it waz
make. Dey dig four big holes en put postes in aw four corner 'bout lak uh room. Den dey lay
log 'cross de top uv dat en kiver it aw o'er wid bresh (brush) dat dey break outer de woods.
Ne'er hab none uv de side shet up. En dey haul log dere en roll em under dat bresh tent fa
we chillun to set on. Oh, de teacher'ud hab uh big box fa her stand jes lak uh preacher. Eve'ybody
dat go to school dere hab one uv dem t'ing call slate dat yah ne'er hadder do nuthin but jes
wash it offen. En dey hab dese ole l'arnin' book wha' yuh call Websters."

"My white folks al'ays waz good to me, honey. Ne'er didn't nab to do no field work in aw me
life. When I stay dere wid Miss Leggett, I hadder pick up little chip 'bout de yard when I
fust come home from school en den I hadder go 'way up in de big field en drib de turkeys up.
We didn't find dat no hard t'ing to do lak de peoples talk lak it sumptin hard to do dese days.
We wuz l'arnt to work en didn't mind it neither. Al'ays minded to us own business."

"Oh, gourds waz de t'ing in dem days. Dey waz wha' de peoples hab to drink outer en wash dey
hominy en rice in aw de time. Dey was de bestest kind uv bowl fa we chillun to eat corn bread
en clabber outer. Peoples dis day en time don' hab no sech crockery lak de people use'er hab.
Honey, day hab de prettiest little clay bowls den."

"Annuder t'ing de peoples do den dat yuh ain' ne'er hear 'bout nobody doing dese days, dey
al'ays boil sumptin fa dey cows to eat lak peas en corn in uh big ole black pot somewhey dere
in de back lot. Coase it wuz jes half cooked, but day sho' done dat. Nobody ne'er t'ought 'bout
not cookin' fa dey cow den."

"Dat was sho' uh different day from dis, honey. De little chillun wus jes uz foolish den cause
de peoples ne'er tell dem 'bout nuthin tall in dat day en time. Aw dese little chillun 'bout
heah dese days don' hab no shame 'bout em no whey. Dey hab head full uv eve'yt'ing, honey,
aw sorta grown people knowings."

  Source: Maggie Black, ex-slave, age 79, Marion, S. C.
          Personal interview, June 1937

  Spartanburg, S. C.
  June 7, 1937

  FOLKLORE: EX-SLAVES

"I was born in Laurens County, S. C., at the 'brick house', which is close to Newberry County
line, and my master was Dr. Felix Calmes. The old brick house is still there. My daddy was
Joe Grazier and my mammy, Nellie Grazier.

"We had a pretty good house to live in in slavery time, and some fair things to eat, but never
was paid any money. We had plenty to eat like fat meat, turnips, cabbages, cornbread, milk
and pot-liquor. Master sent his corn and apples, and his peaches to old man Scruggs at Helena,
near Newberry, to have him make his whiskey, brandy, and wine for him. Old man Scruggs was
good at that business. The men hunted some, squirrels, rabbits, possums, and birds.

"In the winter time I didn't have much clothes, and no shoes. At nights I carded and spinned
on the mistress's wheels, helping my mammy. Then we got old woman Wilson to weave for us.

"Master had a big plantation of several farms, near about 1,000 acres or more. It was said
he had once 250 slaves on his places, counting children and all. His overseers had to whip
the slaves, master told them to, and told them to whip them hard. Master Calmes was most always
mean to us. He got mad spells and whip like the mischief. He all the time whipping me 'cause
I wouldn't work like he wanted. I worked in the big house, washed, ironed, cleaned up, and
was nurse in the house when war was going on.

"We didn't have a chance to learn to read and write, and master said if he caught any of his
slaves trying to learn he would 'skin them alive'.

"There was a church in the neighborhood on Dr. Blackburn's place, but we didn't get to go to
it much. I was 17 years old when I joined the church. I joined because the rest of the girls
joined. I think everybody ought to join the church.

"On Saturday afternoons the slaves had to work, and all day Sunday, too, if master wanted them.
On Christmas Day we was give liquor to get drunk on, but didn't have no dinner.

"When I was sick old Dr. P. B. Ruff attended me. Old Dr. Calmes, I 'member, traveled on a horse,
with saddle-bag behind him, and made his own medicines. He made pills from cornbread.

"I saw many slaves sold on the block--saw mammy with little infant taken away from her baby
and sent away. I saw families separated from each other, some going to one white master and
some to another.

"I married at 14 years old to Arthur Bluford. We had 10 children. I now have about 8 grandchildren
and about 7 or 8 great-grandchildren. I was married in the town of Newberry at the white folk's
Methodist church, by a colored preacher named Rev. Geo. De Walt.

"When freedom come, they left and hired out to other people, but I stayed and was hired out
to a man who tried to whip me, but I ran away. Dat was after I married and had little baby.
I told my mammy to look after my little baby 'cause I was gone. I stayed away two years 'till
after Dr. Calmes and his family moved to Mississippi."

Samuel Boulware's only home is one basement room, in the home of colored friends, for which
no rent charges are made. He is old and feeble and has poor eyesight, yet, he is self-supporting
by doing light odd jobs, mostly for white people. He has never married, hence no dependents
whatever. One of the members of the house, in which Samuel lives, told him someone on the front
porch wanted to talk with him.

From his dingy basement room he slowly mounted the steps and came toward the front door with
an irregular shamble. One seeing his approach would naturally be of the opinion, that this
old darkey was certainly nearing the hundred year mark. Apparently Father Time had almost caught
up with him; he had been caught in the winds of affliction and now he was tottering along with
a bent and twisted frame, which for many years in the past, housed a veritable physical giant.
The winds of 82 years had blown over him and now he was calmly and humbly approaching the end
of his days. Humility was his attitude, a characteristic purely attributable to the genuine
and old-fashion southern Negro. He slid into a nearby chair and began talking in a plain conversational
way.

"Dis is a mighty hot day white folks but you knows dis is July and us gits de hot days in dis
month. De older I gits de more I feels de hot and de cold. I has been a strong, hard working
man most all my life and if it wasn't for dis rheumatism I has in my right leg, I could work
hard every day now.

"Does I 'member much 'bout slavery times? Well, dere is no way for me to disremember, unless
I die. My mammy and me b'long to Doctor Hunter, some called him Major Hunter. When I was a
small boy, I lived wid my mammy on de Hunter plantation. After freedom, I took de name of my
daddy, who was a Boulware. He b'long to Reuben Boulware, who had a plantation two and one-half
miles from Ridgeway, S. C., on de road dat leads to Longtown. My mistress' name was Effie.
She and marster had four sons, no girls a-tall. George, Abram, Willie, and Henry, was their
names. They was fine boys, 'cause they was raised by Mistress Effie's own hands. She was a
good woman and done things 'zackly right 'round de plantation. Us slaves loved her, 'cause
she said kind and soft words to us. Many times I's seen her pat de little niggers on de head,
smile and say nice words to them. Boss, kind treatment done good then and it sho' does good
dis present day; don't you think I's right 'bout dat? Marster had a bad temper. When he git
mad, he walk fast, dis way and dat way, and when he stop, would say terrible cuss words. When
de mistress heard them bad words, she would bow her pretty head and walk 'way kinda sad lak.
It hurt us slaves to see de mistress sad, 'cause us wanted to see her smilin' and happy all
de time.

"My mammy worked hard in de field every day and as I was just a small boy, I toted water to
de hands in de field and fetched wood into de kitchen to cook wid. Mammy was de mother of twelve
chillun; three of them die when they was babies. I's de oldest of de twelve and has done more
hard work than de rest. I had five brothers and all of them is dead, 'cept one dat lives in
Savannah, Georgia. I has four sisters, one living in Charleston, one in New York City, one
in Ithaca, N. Y., and one in Fairfield County, dis State.

"Does my folks help me along any? No sir, they sho' don't. I gits nothin' from them, and I
don't expect nothin' neither. Boss, a nigger's kinfolks is worse than a stranger to them; they
thinks and acts for theirselves and no one else. I knows I's a nigger and I tries to know my
place. If white folks had drapped us long time ago, us would now be next to de rovin' beasts
of de woods. Slavery was hard I knows but it had to be, it seem lak. They tells me they eats
each other in Africa. Us don't do dat and you knows dat is a heap to us.

"Us had plenty to eat in slavery time. It wasn't de best but it filled us up and give us strength
'nough to work. Marster would buy a years rations on de first of every year and when he git
it, he would have some cooked and would set down and eat a meal of it. He would tell us it
didn't hurt him, so it won't hurt us. Dats de kind of food us slaves had to eat all de year.
Of course, us got a heap of vegetables and fruits in de summer season, but sich as dat didn't
do to work on, in de long summer days.

"Marster was good, in a way, to his slaves but dat overseer of his name John Parker, was mean
to us sometimes. He was good to some and bad to others. He strung us up when he done de whippin'.
My mammy got many whippin's on 'count of her short temper. When she got mad, she would talk
back to de overseer, and dat would make him madder than anything else she could do.

"Marster had over twenty grown slaves all de time. He bought and sold them whenever he wanted
to. It was sad times to see mother and chillun separated. I's seen de slave speculator cut
de little nigger chillun with keen leather whips, 'cause they'd cry and run after de wagon
dat was takin' their mammies away after they was sold.

"De overseer was poor white folks, if dats what you is askin' 'bout, and dat is one thing dat
made him so hard on de slaves of de plantation. All de overseers I knowed 'bout was poor white
folks; they was white folks in de neighborhood dat wasn't able to own slaves. All dis class
of people was called by us niggers, poor white folks.

"Us slaves had no schoolin', 'cause dere was no teacher and school nigh our plantation. I has
learnt to read a little since I got grown. Spelling come to me natural. I can spell 'most any
word I hears, old as I is.

"Marster and mistress was Baptist in 'ligious faith, and b'long to Concord Baptist Church.
Us slaves was allowed to 'tend dat church, too. Us set up in de gallery and jined in de singin'
every Sunday. Us slaves could jine Concord Church but Doctor Durham, who was de preacher, would
take de slaves in another room from de white folks, and git their 'fessions, then he would
jine them to de church.

"My daddy was a slave on Reuben Boulware's plantation, 'bout two miles from Marster Hunter's
place. He would git a pass to come to see mammy once every week. If he come more than dat he
would have to skeedaddle through de woods and fields from de patrollers. If they ketched him
widout a pass, he was sho' in for a skin crackin' whippin'. He knowed all dat but he would
slip to see mammy anyhow, whippin' or not.

"Most them there patrollers was poor white folks, I believes. Rich folks stay in their house
at night, 'less they has some sort of big frolic amongst theirselves. Poor white folks had
to hustle 'round to make a living, so, they hired out theirselves to slave owners and rode
de roads at night and whipped niggers if they ketched any off their plantation widout a pass.
I has found dat if you gives to some poor folks, white or black, something a little better
than they is used to, they is sho' gwine to think too high of theirselves soon, dats right.
I sho' believes dat, as much as I believes I's setting in dis chair talkin' to you.

"I 'members lak yesterday, de Yankees comin' 'long. Marster tried to hide the best stuff on
de plantation but some of de slaves dat helped him hide it, showed de Yankee soldiers just
where it was, when they come dere. They say: 'Here is de stuff, hid here, 'cause us put it
dere.' Then de soldiers went straight to de place where de valuables was hid and dug them out
and took them, it sho' set old marster down. Us slaves was sorry dat day for marster and mistress.
They was gittin' old, and now they had lost all they had, and more that dat, they knowed their
slaves was set free. De soldiers took all de good hosses, fat cattle, chickens, de meat in
de smoke house, and then burnt all empty houses. They left de ones dat folks lived in. De Yankees
'pear to me, to be lookin' for things to eat, more than anything else.

"Does I believe in 'ligion? Dat is all us has in dis world to live by and it's gwine to be
de onliest thing to die wid. Belief in God and a 'umble spirit is how I's tryin' to live these
days. I was christened fust a Methodist, but when I growed up, I jine de Presbyterian Church
and has 'mained a member of dat church every since.

"Thank God I's had 'nough sense not to believe in haunts and sich things. I has 'possum hunt
at night by myself in graveyards and I ain't seen one yet. My mammy say she see haunts pass
her wid no heads but these old eyes has never seen anything lak dat. If you has done somebody
a terrible wrong, then I believes dat person when they die, will 'pear to you on 'count of
dat." They met at the courthouse. There were about 500 Red Shirts, besides others who made
up a big crowd. I remember four leaders who came from Union County. One of the companies was
led by Squire Gilliam Jeter, and one by Squire Bill Lyles. The company from the city was led
by Capt. James Douglass and 'Buck' Kelley from Pea Ridge was there with his company.

"Everything drilled in Spartanburg that day. The speakers of the day from Union were Squire
Jeter and Capt. Douglass. While they were speaking, old Squire George Tucker from lower Fish
Dam came with his company. Mr. Harrison Sartor, father of Will Sartor, was one of the captains.
We saw Gen. Wade Hampton and old man Ben Tillman there.

"About this time I was bound out to Mr. Jim Gregory, a blacksmith. The wealthy landlords bought
negroes. Mr. Jim Gregory was the blacksmith for old Johnny Meador and Aunt Polly, his wife.
He told me that Uncle Johnny bought a man, Heath, for $3,500. He also bought Heath's wife,
Morrow, for Aunt Polly, but I don't know what he paid. The Meador house is just this side of
Simstown. Aunt Polly's father, Triplett Meador, built that mansion. The brick were made in
a home kiln which was near the house. Aunt Polly was a little girl when the house was built.
While the brick for the sitting-room fireplace were still wet, he made little Polly step on
each one of them to make the impression of her feet. So those foot prints in that fireplace
are Aunt Polly's when she was five years old. She grew up there and married, and lived there
until her death.

"Miss Ida Knight's house (formerly the Sims house) was built not later than 1840. Dr. Thompson
lived there first. Dr. Billy Sims married Dr. Thompson's sister, Miss Patsy, and that is how
the house got into the Sims family. The old post office was known as Simstown, and I believe
it was up near the Nat Gist mansion. Simstown was the name for the river community for years,
because the Sims settled there and they were equally or more prominent than the Thompsons and
Gists in that community. All the Sims men were country doctors.

"To this community at the close of the Confederate War, came old man Ogle Tate, his wife, and
Ben Shell, as refugees, fleeing from the Yankees. When they came into the community, Nat Gist
gave them a nice house to live in on his plantation.

"Mr. Gregory got all the sheet iron used on the Meador and Gist plantations, and also on the
Sims and Thompson plantations. Plows were made in his blacksmith shop from 10 inch sheet iron.
The sheet was heated and beaten into shape with his hammer. After cooling, the tools could
be sharpened. Horse and mule shoes were made from slender iron rods, bought for that purpose.
They were called 'slats', and this grade of iron was known as 'slat iron'. The shoe was moulded
while hot, and beaten into the correct shape to fit the animal's foot. Those old shoes fit
much better than the store-bought ones of more recent days. The horseshoe nails were made there,
too. In fact, every farm implement of iron was made from flat or sheet iron.

"I spun the first pants that I wore. Ma sewed them for me, and wove and finished them with
her hands. She made the thread that they were sewed with by hand on the loom. I made cloth
for all my shirts. I wore home-made cotton underwear in summer and winter, for we were poor.
Of course my winter clothes were heavier.

"We raised some sheep, and the winter woolens were made from the wool sheared from the sheep
every May. Wool was taken to the factory at Bivensville and there made into yarn. Often, cotton
was swapped for yarn to warp at home. Then ma ran it off on spools for her loom. 'Sleigh hammers'
were made from cane gotten off the creek banks and bottoms.

"Aunt Polly Meador had no patrollers on her place. She would not allow one there, for she did
her own patrolling with her own whip and two bull dogs. She never had an overseer on her place,
either. Neither did she let Uncle Johnny do the whipping. Those two dogs held them and she
did her own whipping. One night she went to the quarter and found old 'Bill Pea Legs' there
after one of her negro women. He crawled under the bed when he heard Aunt Polly coming. Those
dogs pulled old 'Pea Legs' out and she gave him a whipping that he never forgot. She whipped
the woman, also.

"Morg was Morrow's nickname. Morg used to sit on the meat block and cut the meat for Aunt Polly
to give out. Morg would eat her three pounds of raw meat right there. Uncle Johnny asked her
what she would do all the week without any meat, she said that she would take the skin and
grease her mouth every morning; then go on to the field or house and do her work, and wait
until the next Saturday for more.

"I do not know how old I am, but I well remember when Wheeler's men came to the plantation.
They tore up everything. We heard that they were coming, so we dug holes and buried the meat
and everything we could. We hid them so well that we could never find some of them ourselves.
Wheeler and 36 men stopped on the Dick Jeter place. I think that was in 1864. The Jeter place
touched Miss Polly's plantation. The Jeter place was right near Neal Shoals on Broad River.
Mr. Jeter had the biggest gin house in the entire township. Old Mr. Dick was at home because
he was too old to go to the war. Pa was still in the war then, of course. Ma and I and one
of the other children and a few darkies were at our home.

"We saw Wheeler and his men when they stopped at that gin house. They began to ransack immediately.
Wheeler gave some orders to his men and galloped off towards our house. The negroes ran but
ma and I stayed in the house. Wheeler rode up in front of the door and spoke to my mother.
He said that he had to feed his men and horses and asked her where the corn was. She told him
that the gin house and the crib which contained the corn did not belong to her, so she could
not give him the keys. At that he ordered his men to remove a log from the crib. By this means
they broke into the crib and got all the corn. They then ransacked the house and took everything
there was to eat. They tore out the big cog wheel in the gin and camped in it for the night.
Next morning they set fire to the gin and then galloped away. Soon Mr. Jeter's big gin had
gone up in flames. They took all of our corn and all of the fodder, 200 bundles that we had
in the barn, away with them." Me and my mother belonged to the Workman family. Afterwards,
I belonged to Madison Workman. He was a good man to his slaves. My work was around the house
and home. I was too young to work in the fields until after the war.

"I can't remember much about them times. I married there and soon after come to town and lived,
where I have worked ever since. I do washing and other work.

"On the farm, the old folks had to cook outdoors, or in a kitchen away off from the house.
They had wide fireplaces where they put their pots to cook the meals.

"I remember the old Little River Presbyterian Church where people would go on Sundays. They
would go in the mornings, and again in the afternoons and have preaching."

Andy Brice lives with his wife and two small children, about twelve miles east of Ridgeway,
S. C., in a two-room frame building, chimney in the center. The house is set in a little cluster
of pines one hundred and fifty yards north of state highway #34. Andy, since the amputation
of his right leg five years ago, has done no work and is too old to learn a trade. He has a
regular beggar's route including the towns of Ridgeway, Winnsboro, Woodward, and Blackstock.
His amiability and good nature enable him to go home after each trip with a little money and
a pack of miscellaneous gifts from white friends.

"Howdy Cap'n! I come to Winnsboro dis mornin' from way 'cross Wateree, where I live now 'mongst
de bull-frogs and skeeters.

"I see a spit-box over dere. By chance, have you got any 'bacco? Make me more glib if I can
chew and spit; then I 'members more and better de things done past and gone.

"I was a slave of Mistress Jane. Her was a daughter of old Marster William Brice. Her marry
Henry Younge and mammy was give to Marse Henry and Miss Jane.

"My pappy name Tony. Mammy name Sallie. You is seen her a many a day. Marse Henry got kilt
in de war. His tombstone and Mistress Jane's tombstone am in Concord Cemetery. They left two
chillun, Miss Kittie and Miss Maggie. They both marry a Caldwell; same name but no kin. Miss
Kittie marry Marse Joe Caldwell and move to Texas. Miss Maggie marry Marse Camel Caldwell and
move to North Carolina.

"My pappy die durin' de war. After freedom, mammy marry a ugly, no 'count nigger name Mills
Douglas. She had one child by him, name Janie. My mammy name her dat out of memory and love
for old mistress, in slavery time. I run away from de home of my step-pappy and got work wid
Major Thomas Brice. I work for him 'til I become a full grown man and come to be de driver
of de four-hoss wagon.

"One day I see Marse Thomas a twistin' de ears on a fiddle and rosinin' de bow. Then he pull
dat bow 'cross de belly of dat fiddle. Sumpin' bust loose in me and sing all thru my head and
tingle in my fingers. I make up my mind, right then and dere, to save and buy me a fiddle.
I got one dat Christmas, bless God! I learn and been playin' de fiddle ever since. I pat one
foot while I playin'. I kept on playin' and pattin' dat foot for thirty years. I lose dat foot
in a smash up wid a highway accident but I play de old tunes on dat fiddle at night, dat foot
seem to be dere at de end of dat leg (indicating) and pats just de same. Sometime I ketch myself
lookin' down to see if it have come back and jined itself up to dat leg, from de very charm
of de music I makin' wid de fiddle and de bow.

"I never was very popular wid my own color. They say behind my back, in '76, dat I's a white
folks nigger. I wear a red shirt then, drink red liquor, play de fiddle at de 'lection box,
and vote de white folks ticket. Who I marry? I marry Ellen Watson, as pretty a ginger cake
nigger as ever fried a batter cake or rolled her arms up in a wash tub. How I git her? I never
git her; dat fiddle got her. I play for all de white folks dances down at Cedar Shades, up
at Blackstock. De money roll in when someone pass 'round de hat and say: 'De fiddler?' Ellen
had more beaux 'round her than her could shake a stick at but de beau she lak best was de bow
dat could draw music out of them five strings, and draw money into dat hat, dat jingle in my
pocket de nex' day when I go to see her.

"I 'members very little 'bout de war, tho' I was a good size boy when de Yankees come. By instint,
a nigger can make up his mind pretty quick 'bout de creed of white folks, whether they am buckra
or whether they am not. Every Yankee I see had de stamp of poor white trash on them. They strutted
'round, big Ike fashion, a bustin' in rooms widout knockin', talkin' free to de white ladies,
and familiar to de slave gals, ransackin' drawers, and runnin' deir bayonets into feather beds,
and into de flower beds in de yards.

"What church I b'long to? None. Dat fiddle draws down from hebben all de sermons dat I understan'.
I sings de hymns in de way I praise and glorify de Lord.

"Cotton pickin' was de biggest work I ever did, outside of drivin' a wagon and playin' de fiddle.
Look at them fingers; they is supple. I carry two rows of cotton at a time. One week I pick,
in a race wid others, over 300 pounds a day. Commencin' Monday, thru Friday night, I pick 1,562
pounds cotton seed. Dat make a bale weighin' 500 pounds, in de lint.

"Ellen and me have one child, Sallie Ann. Ellen 'joy herself; have a good time nussin' white
folks chillun. Nussed you; she tell me 'bout it many time. 'Spect she mind you of it very often.
I knows you couldn't git 'round dat woman; nobody could. De Lord took her home fifteen years
ago and I marry a widow, Ida Belton, down on de Kershaw County side.

"You wants me to tell 'bout dat 'lection day at Woodward, in 1878? You wants to know de beginnin'
and de end of it? Yes? Well, you couldn't wet dis old man's whistle wid a swallow of red liquor
now? Couldn't you or could you? Dis was de way of it: It was set for Tuesday. Monday I drive
de four-hoss wagon down to dis very town. Marse John McCrory and Marse Ed Woodward come wid
me. They was in a buggy. When us got here, us got twenty, sixteen shooters and put them under
de hay us have in de wagon. Bar rooms was here. I had fetched my fiddle 'long and played in
Marse Fred Habernick's bar 'til dinner time. Us leave town 'bout four o'clock. Roads was bad
but us got home 'bout dark. Us put de guns in Marse Andy Mobley's store. Marse Ed and me leave
Marse John to sleep in de store and to take care of de guns.

"De nex' mornin', polls open in de little school house by de brick church. I was dere on time,
help to fix de table by de window and set de ballot boxes on it. Voters could come to de window,
put deir arms thru and tuck de vote in a slit in de boxes. Dere was two supervisors, Marse
Thomas for de Democrats and Uncle Jordan for de Radicals. Marse Thomas had a book and a pencil,
Uncle Jordan had de same.

"Joe Foster, big buckra nigger, want to vote a stranger. Marse Thomas challenge dis vote. In
them times colored preachers so 'furiate de women, dat they would put on breeches and vote
de 'Publican radical ticket. De stranger look lak a woman. Joe Foster 'spute Marse Thomas'
word and Marse Thomas knock him down wid de naked fist. Marse Irish Billy Brice, when him see
four or five hindred blacks crowdin' 'round Marse Thomas, he jump thru de window from de inside.
When he lit on de ground, pistol went off pow! One nigger drop in his tracks. Sixteen men come
from nowhere and sixteen, sixteen shooters. Marse Thomas hold up his hand to them and say:
'Wait!' Him point to de niggers and say: 'Git.' They start to runnin' 'cross de railroad, over
de hillside and never quit runnin' 'til they git half a mile away. De only niggers left on
dat ground was me, old Uncle Kantz, (you know de old mulatto, club-foot nigger) well, me and
him and Albert Gladney, de hurt nigger dat was shot thru de neck was de only niggers left.
Dr. Tom Douglas took de ball out Albert's neck and de white folks put him in a wagon and sent
him home. I drive de wagon. When I got back, de white boys was in de graveyard gittin' names
off de tombstones to fill out de talley sheets, dere was so many votes in de box for de Hampton
ticket, they had to vote de dead. I 'spect dat was one resurrection day all over South Carolina."
Everybody know Maria. She go by Rice--Maria Rice. She sont fer me to cure her misery. First,
I went from my home in lower Cross Keys, across de Enoree, to see Maria. When I reached dar
whar she stay, dey tell me dat her daughter over to Tosch. Done come and got her.

"A kind friend dat de Lawd put in my path fetched me back across de Enoree and over to Tosch
to Maria's gal's house. I is gwine straight over dar and lay my hand on Maria and rid her of
dat misery dat she sont word was ailing her all dis spring. Don't make no diff'uns whar you
hurts--woman, man or suckling babe--if you believes in de holler of my hand, it'll ease you,
allus do it. De Bible say so, dat's why it be true. Ain't gwine to tell you nothing but de
truth and de whole truth, so help me Jesus. Gone 65 years, I is been born agin dat long; right
over in Padgett's Creek church, de white folks' church, dat's what de Lawd tuck my sins away
and washed me clean agin wid His blood. Dat's why I allus sticks to de truth, I does.

"Dey all 'lows dat I is gwine on 89, and I has facts to believe it am true. I 'longed to Marse
Jesse Briggs. Did you know dat it was two Jesse Briggs? Yes sir, sho was two Jesse Briggses.

"What I gwine to relate to you is true, but in respect to my old Marse, and in de case dat
dem what reads dat book won't understand, you needs not to write dis statement down. My marster
was called 'Black Jesse', but de reason fer dat was to keep him from gitting mixed up wid de
other Jesse. Dat is de secret of de thing. Now dat's jes' fer your own light and knowledge,
and not to be wrote down. He was de blacksmith fer all de Cross Keys section, and fer dat very
thing he got de name by everybody, 'Black Jesse'. I allus 'longed to dat man and he was de
kindest man what de countryside had knowledge of.

"In Union County is whar I was born and raised, and it's whar I is gwine to be buried. Ain't
never left de county but once in my life, and if de Lawd see fitten, I ain't gwine to leave
it no mo', 'cept to reach de Promise Land. Lawd! Lawd! De Promise Land, dat's whar I is gwine
when I leaves Union County. Dey carried me a hundred miles to cure a sick woman, onliest time
I ever left Union County. I loves it and I is fit throughout and enduring de time dem Yankees
tried to git de county, to save it. What is I gwine to leave it fer? Mr. Perrin and all de
white folks is good to me since my marse done gone and left his earthly home. And he is waiting
up dar wid Missie to see me agin. Dat I is sho of.

"Listen brother, de Lawd is setting on His throne in Glory. He hear every word dat I gwine
to tell you. Folks fergits dat when dey talks real often sometimes, don't dey? I put my hand
on any 'flux' man or woman and removes de pain, if dey have faith in my hand. I don't tell
nothing but de truth. I was born on Gist Briggs' plantation in Union County, in de lower section
of Cross Keys. Marse Sexton and all dem good folks in lower Keys says dat I sho is 88. Give
my name right flat, it's George Briggs; giving it round, it like dis, George McDuffie Briggs.
My papa's name was Ike Wilburn, and my mother's name was Margaret Briggs. Pa 'longed to Marse
Lige Wilburn. Mama 'longed to Jesse (Black Jesse) Briggs. Dey both born and raised in Union
County. Dese was my brothers and sisters, coming in de order dey was born to my parents in:
Charlie, Dave, Aaron, Tom, Noah, Charlotte, Polly, Fannie, Mattie, Horace, Cassie. I'm de oldest,
and Cassie and me lives in Union County. Fannie and Mattie lives in Asheville, and de rest
is done journeyed to de Promise Land. Yes Lawd, to de Promise Land.

"Marse and Missus was good to us all. Missus name was Nancy. She die early and her grave is
in Cross Keys at de Briggs graveyard. Be still! Lemme git my mind together so dat I don't git
mixed up and can git you de Briggses together. Here 'tis: Cheney and Lucindy, Lucindy married
a Floyd from Spartanburg, and de Floyds lived at de Burn't factory. Cheney Briggs had a son,
Henry Briggs.

"Not so fast, fer I'se gwine to start way back, dat time when us was lil' darky boys way back
in slavery. We started to work wid de marster's mules and hosses. When us was real little,
we played hoss. Befo' Cheney Briggs went to Arkansas he was our play hoss. His brother, Henry,
was de wagoner and I was de mule. Henry was little and he rid our backs sometimes. Henry rid
old man Sam, sometimes, and old man Sam jes' holler and haw haw at us chilluns. Dis was in
sech early childhood dat it is not so I can 'zactly map out de exact age us was den; anyway,
from dis we rid de gentle hosses and mules and larn't how to feed dem. Every word dat I tells
you is de truth, and I is got to meet dat word somewhars else; and fer dat reason, de truth
is all dat dis old man ever tells.

"In dat day we lived in a log cabin or house. Sometimes us never had nothing to do. Our house
had only one room, but some of de houses had two rooms. Our'n had a winder, a do', and a common
fireplace. Now dey makes a fireplace to scare de wood away. In old days dey made fireplaces
to take care of de chilluns in de cold weather. It warm de whole house, 'cause it was so big
and dar was plenty wood. Wood wasn't no problem den, and it ain't no problem yet out in de
lower Keys. In town it is, and I ain't guessing. I done seed so.

"I sho can histronize de Confederates. I come along wid de Secession flag and de musterings.
I careful to live at home and please de Marse. In de war, I'se mo' dan careful and I stick
close to him and please him, and he mo' dan good. Us did not git mobbed up like lots of dem did.

"When Tice Myers' chilluns was born, he had a house built wid a up-stairs. But never no stage
coach stopped dar as I ever heard tell about, and I done saw 75 years at Padgett's Creek.

"Way 'tis, from de bundle of de heart, de tongue speaketh. Been in service reg'lar since Monday.
I went to Neal Greege's house but she wasn't dar. I is speaking 'bout Ria (Maria Rice). She
done gone to town. At de highway, de Lawd prepared a friend to carry me to Union, and when
I got dar I take and lay hands on Ria Rice, she laying down and suffering, and I sot down and
laid my hand on her. We never say nothing, jes' pray. She be real quiet, and atter while, she
riz up and take a breath. She kept on a setting up fer so long dat her husband make her lay
back down fer fear dat she git worser. I stay dar all through de night and she sleep sound
and wake up dis morning feeling like a new woman.

"Befo' breakfast, here is de words of praise I lifted to de Lawd, over dar on Tosch. You set
down de coser (chorus): 'First to de graveyard; den to de Jedgement bar!' Is you got dat verser
(verses)? Den git dis: 'All de deacons got to go; all de members got to go; all de sinners
got to go.' Mo' 'longs to it, but dat's all I takes when I is praising Him fer relieving pain
through me. (He sings each line five times. He takes off his hat; bows; holds his hands over
his head, and closes his eyes while singing. His hair is snow white.)

"Lawd, help me dis morning! Here's another first line to one of our songs: 'All dem preachers
got to go'.

"Nehemiah, when he wid de king, de king axed him to reveal de wall whar his father was buried.
Nehemiah did what de king had done axed him. I 'tends Galilee Baptist church in lower Cross
Keys; and at Sedalia, I goes to New Hope Methodist church, but I don't know nothing else but
Baptist. We peoples is barrence (barren of the Holy Spirit), but not God; He, Hisself, is born
of God, and all is of de same source and by dat I means de Spirit. All has to be born of de
Spirit to become chilluns of God. Romans, Chap. 6, 'lows something like dis: 'He dat is dead
in sin, how is it dat he can continue in sin?' Dat tell us dat every man, white or black, is
de child of God. And it is Christ dat is buried in baptism, and we shall be buried in like
manner. If Christ did not rise, den our preaching is in vain. And if we is not born agin, why
den we is lost and our preaching is in vain.

"In picking up de New Testament, consider all dat you hear me arguing and saying is from a
gift and not from edication. Romans 6, 'lows: 'Speak plain words, not round words, kaise all
de round words is fer dem dat is edicated.' Jacob had twelve sons. Dey went and bundled up
deir wheat, and eleven bundles bowed to de one. Dat Joseph's bundle what he done up. Other
brothers up and got and sold Joseph into captivity to de Egyptians. Dat throw'd Jacob to send
Reuben to Egypt. Den dey bowed to Jacob and his sons. It run on and on till dey all had to
go to Egypt, and all of dem had to live under Joseph.

"When I was a little shaver and come to myself. I was sleeping in a corded bed. (He scratched
his head) I jes' studying fer a minute; can't 'zactly identify my grandpa, but I can identify
my grandma. We all raised on de same place together. She name Cindy Briggs, but dey call her
Cina kaise dar was so many Cindys 'round dar. One thing I does 'member 'bout her, if she tote
me, she sho to whip me. I was raised strict.

"All my life I is stayed in de fur (far) end of Union County whar it borders Laurens, wid de
Enoree dividing de two counties. It is right dar dat I is plowed and hoed and raised my craps
fer de past 75 years, I reckons. Lawd have mercy! No, I doesn't recalls de names of none of
dem mules. Dat's so fur back dat I is jes' done forgot, dat's all. But I does recall 'fur back'
things de best, sometimes. Listen good now. When I got big and couldn't play 'round at chillun's
doings, I started to platting cornshucks and things fer making hoss and mule collars, and scouring-brooms
and shoulder-mats. I cut hickory poles and make handles out of dem fer de brooms. Marse had
hides tanned, and us make buggy whips, wagon whips, shoe strings, saddle strings and sech as
dat out of our home-tanned leather. All de galluses dat was wo' in dem days was made by de darkies.

"White oak and hickory was split to cure, and we made fish baskets, feed baskets, wood baskets,
sewing baskets and all kinds of baskets fer de Missus. All de chair bottoms of straight chairs
was made from white oak splits, and de straight chairs was made in de shop. You made a scouring
brush like dis: (He put his hands together to show how the splits were held) By splitting a
width of narrow splits, keep on till you lay a entire layer of splits; turn dis way; den dat
way, and den bind together and dat hold dem like you want dem to stay. Last, you work in a
pole as long as you want it fer de handle, and bind it tight and tie wid de purtiest knots.

"I git money fer platting galluses and making boot strings and other little things. Allus first,
I desires to be well qualified wid what I does. I is gwine to be qualified wid everything dat
I does, iffen I does it fer money or no. Dat's de reason white people has allus give me words
of encouragement.

"Now I gwine to sing a song fer Miss Polly, kaise she de grand-daughter of de late Sheriff
Long, and I goes to see her grandma at de Keys (Cross Keys House). Dar she come now.

"How is you dis morning, Miss Polly? De Lawd sho does shower you, Miss Polly, and dat's de
reason I is gwine to sing fer you dis morning. You'll be able to tell Mr. Jimmie (her father)
dat Uncle George sing fer you, 'Jesus Listening All De Day Long'.

  "Jesus listening all de day long to hear some sinner pray.
  De winding sheet to wrop (wrap) dis body in,
  De coffin to hold you fast;
  Pass through death's iron do'.
  Come ye dat love de Lawd and let your joy be know'd;
  Dis iron gate you must pass through, if you gwine to be
  Born agin."

He sang these lines over three times and then bowing, said: "Ain't it glory dat we can live
whar de Lawd can use us? Dat's power. A strong man entereth in; a weak man cometh out. Dat
represent Christ gwine into your heart.

"Sho I can remember when dey had de mustering grounds at de Keys. Dar day mustered and den
dey turn't in and practiced drilling dem soldiers till dey larn't how to march and to shoot
de Yankees. Drilling, dat's de proper word, not practice, I knows, if I ain't ed'icated. Dey
signed me to go to de 16th regiment, but I never reached de North. When us got to Charleston,
us turn't around and de bosses fetched us right back to Union through Columbia. Us heard dat
Sherman was coming, fetching fire along 'hind him.

"Don't know nothing 'bout no militia to make no statement, but it went on and turn't back.
Another regiment had a barbecue somewhars in Union County befo' it went off to war; might a
been de 18th regiment, but I does not feel dat I can state on dat.

"My soul reaches from God's foot-stool up to his heavenly home. I can histronize de poor white
folks' wives and chilluns enduring de time of de Civil War fer you. When dese poor white men
went to de war, dey left deir little chillun and deir wives in de hands of de darkies dat was
kind and de rich wives of our marsters to care fer. Us took de best care of dem poor white
dat us could under de circumstances dat prevailed.

"We was sont to Sullivan's Island, but befo' we reached it, de Yankees done got it and we won't
'lowed to cross in '64. But jes' de same, we was in service till dey give Capt. Franklin Bailey
'mission to fetch us home. Dar we had to git 'mission fer everything, jes' as us niggers had
to git 'mission to leave our marster's place at home in Union County. Capt. Bailey come on
back to Cross Keys wid us under his protection, and we was under it fer de longest time atter
we done got home.

"Fer 65 years I been licensed as a preacher, and fer longer dan dat I been a member of Padgett's
Creek Baptist church. Mo' work I does, mo' work I has to do. You know how to pray. Well, you
does not know how to make polish out of pinders.

"I ain't ed'icated yet, but even Lige what teaches school out to de Keys (de big black school),
dat big black buck dat teaches de chilluns deir 'rithmetic; even he couldn't do dis here one.
A heap of ed'icated folks can't give it. Here it is: 'What's de biggest figger in de figger ten?'"

With his old black, rough and gnarled forefinger he drew on the table the figure 1. "Now you
see dat? Dat's de figger 1. A naught ain't nothing by itself or multiplied by other naughts;
but set it down in front of de figger 1, and it takes on de value 9. Dar you is got ten--one
and nine is ten. Dat naught becomes something. I is old, and I ain't had narry bit of schooling,
but I likes to be close to de orchard, and I knows it's dar by de smell of it. Dat's de way
I is when I gits along side ed'icated folks--I knows dat dey is.

"It's like dat sum dem scholars couldn't git; standing alone dat naught ain't worth nothing,
but set it up against dat which is of value and it takes on value. Set a naught ag'inst dat
which is one and you has ten; set up another naught dar and you has a hundred. Now if somebody
was to give me a note worth $10, and I found room to add another naught along side of de first;
den dem two naughts what ain't worth nothing by deirselves gives de note de value of $99 if
dey is sot along wid de one. Ed'icated folks calls dat raising de note. I is ig'nant and I
calls dat robbery. And dat's like you and me. We is naughts and Christ is de One, and we ain't
nothing till we carries de Spirit of de Lawd along wid us.

"On de pathway of life, may you allus keep Christ in front of you and you will never go wrong.
De Lawd will den see fit to give you a soul dat will reach from His foot-stool here on earth
to His dwelling place on high." He ended with a deep sob and good-bye.

  Source: George Briggs (88), Union, S. C. RFD 2. I knowed dat, and 'cides dat, I knowed
him well. It was Governor 'Bill' as us called him.

"What you want to git, is history about muster grounds. Yes, it was on Jones Ferry Road, jest
south of Cross Keys whar dey had what dey allus called de muster field. Now, Jones Ferry Road
leads across Enoree River into Laurens County. Enoree River is de thing dat devides Union County
from Laurens County, dat it is.

"Well as I remember, Mr. Bill Ray was in de mustering of de 18th Regiment. Billy, Robert, Sara
and Miss Nancy was Mr. Alex's chilluns. Understand me, don't think dat Bob and Sam was in de
Regiment ... satisfied Billy was, kaise he used to pass our house on horse back, coming from
de Laurens side where he lived.

"Sixteen-year-old boys come in de same time dat I did. Course I ain't told all dat I knows,
kaise dat wouldn't be proper. All I tell you, I wants it to be recognized. De better it's done,
de better it'll help you.

"I goes from home and stays five days or more, and don't nothing happen to a thing at my home.
I does fer de sick and de Lawd blesses me. He looks atter my things while I am away. He soon
shows his presence atter I gits dar. He calls fer me and I feeds Him.

"Once had 26 biles (boils). Dat make me consider my disobedience against de Lawd. Den I went
to Him in prayer. He told me Satan done got ahead of Him. Dat show me dat I done forgot to
be particular. I got mo' 'ticular and pray mo' often, and in six weeks my biles had done all gone.

"Dar is times when I gits lost fer not knowing. I can't keep up, kaise I cannot read. Man in
Sunday school reads and I hears. He read de olden Testament; den he read de new Testament.
Dat my schooling. I 'clar unto you, I got by all my life by praying and thinking. I sho does
think a lot. ('Uncle' George's facial and scalp muscles work so when he thinks, that his straw
hat moves up and down.)

"When good man prays fer bad man, de Holy Ghost works on bad man's consciousness, and afo'
he knows it, he's a-saying 'Lawd have Mercy' 'stead of 'G'dam', like all wicked folks says
every day. He--dat de Holy Ghost dat I still is speaking of--jest penetrates de wicked man's
consciousness widout him a-knowing it. Dat penetrating make de bad man say, 'Lawd have Mercy.'
I hoes and I cuts sprouts, and den I plows. When you plows, mules is allus so aggravating dat
dey gits you all ruffled up. Dat de devil a-working at you. Dat's all old mules is anyhow.
I does not cuss, nohow, kaise it sho am wicked and I is had de Holy Spirit in my soul, now
gone sixty-five years, since I jined Padgett Creek Church. When my old mule gits to de row's
end, and he act mulish--kaise dat's in him and he don't know nothing else to do--I means to
say either 'ha' or 'gee', and often since I jined Padgett Creek Church I finds myself saying
'Lawd have Mercy' 'stead of 'gee' or 'ha'. So you see dat de Lawd has command, whar-so-ever
if I was wicked, Satan would.

"A child fo God allus will agree wid de Word of God. We mens dat claim to be leaders in de
Kingdom, got to step up and sho folks what dey must do. Man learns right smart from Exodus
'bout how to lead. A male child was born to rule de world. Moses still de strongest impression
dat we has as rulers. God gits Hisself into de heads of men dat he wants to rule and He don't
tell nobody else nothing 'bout it neither.

"Mr. Roosevelt de president and he sho looks atter de po' folks. He ain't no ig'nant man neither,
kaise he got de light. Folks ain't a-gwine to drown him out neither wid dere wicked words 'gainst
him, kaise he strive in de Lawd's name to do His will. Mr. Roosevelt got learning like I is
from de throne of God. He may have education also, but if he is, he sho knows how to keep dem
both jined together. Folks reads to me how he got crippled and how he washed in dem springs
in Georgia, and dat keep him a-gwine right on anyhow. It ain't dem springs by deself, but it's
God a dipping his hand down dar fer de President to git well. Oh yes, suh, I knows dat he twan't
de president when he was a-washing, but dem de plans dat de Lawd had done already planned and
you and me never know'd nothing 'bout all dat. You and me does not know what is planned up
in sto' fer us in de future neither.

"I is a Baptist, and at Padgett's Creek we does not believe in no back-sliding. 'Once in de
Spirit, allus in de Spirit'. A child of your'n is allus a child of your'n. Dat de way de Baptist
teach--once a child of God, allus God's child. T'ain't no sech thing as drapping back. If you
draps back, you ain't never been no child of de Lawd, and you never had no business being baptized.
Christ was baptized in de waters of Jordan, won't (weren't) He? Well, He never drapped back,
did He? He say we must follow in His footsteps, didn't He? Well, dar you is, and dat's all
dar is to it.

"God gits in de heads of men to help de aged and de po' also. I never axes fer nothing, but
when I sets around de courthouse and informs men as I been doing dis evening, de Lawd has dem
to drap a nickle or a dime or a quarter in my hand but He never gits dem to a half of a dollar."

  Source: George Briggs, (88) Rt. I traveling dat way over 73 years. If he ax de
Lawd and have faith, he ken do; and iffen he don't have no faith, by den
he can't. When a man comes along dat wants his own way, and he won't pay
no attention to de Lawd, by den de Lawd don't pay him no mind; and so
dat man jest keeps a-gwine on wid his way and he don't never reach de
Cross. Jesus say, 'deny yourself, pick up de Cross and follow Me.'

"I see a man in de courthouse dis morning, and he was like Nicodemus. Why dat man want to be
resto'd back like he was when he was jest 21 years old. I seed him setting down dar in Mr.
Perrin's office, and I knowed his troubles when he 'low dat he done been to every doctor in
town. De trouble was, he never had no faith in de doctors and nobody else. How could he have
faith in Jesus when he never had none in nothing else? Brother, you has to have faith in your
fellowman befo' you has faith in de Lawd. I don't know how come, but dat's de way it is. My
plan is working by faith. Jesus say, 'Work widout faith ain't nothing; but work wid faith'll
move mountains'.

"Dat man told me he gwine give me a hundred dollars if I rid him of misery. Dat show he never
know nothing 'bout faith.

"If Mr. Emslie Nicholson ax me to rid him of a misery, I couldn't take no money from him, and
he de richest man in all Union County. Mr. Nicholson would know better dan to offer me money,
kaise he has faith. You know he's a good 'Presmuterian' (Presbyterian).

"Dey looks at de back of my head, and de hair on it ain't rubbed against no college and fer
dat reason dese young negroes don't want me to preach. Dey wants to hear dat man preach dat
can read. Man dat can read can't understand less'n some divine man guide him. I speak as my
Teacher gives it to me, dat's de Lawd. In so doing, I testify de word dat no man can condemn.
Dat is my plan of Salvation: to work by faith widout price or purse, as de Lawd, my Teacher
has taught me.

"Dar was no church on our plantation when I was a boy. All de Baptists went to Padgett's Creek,
and all de Methodist went to Quaker Church and Belmont. Padgett's Creek had a section in de
back of de church fer de slaves to sit. Quaker Church and Belmont both had slaves' galleries.
Dar is a big book at Padgetts wid three pages of slaves' names that was members. Mr. Claude
Sparks read it to me last year. All de darky members dead, but one, dat's me.

"Nobody never read de Bible to me when I was little. It jest a gift of God dat teached to me
through de Holy Ghost. It's de Spirit of de One in Three dat gits into you, and dat's de Holy
Ghost or de Holy Spirit dat gives me my enlightment.

"If I can git to de do' of Padgett's Creek Church, I can jest feel de Power of God. ('Uncle'
George pats his foot and softly cries at this point, and his face takes on a calm and peaceful
expression.)

"If you eats befo' you gits hongry, you never will feast on dead air. I makes it a practice
to feed my soul and body befo' dey gits hongry. Even I does eat by myself, dis old man take
off his hat and ax de Lawd to bless his soul and body in nourishment fer de future.

"I ain't never seed Mr. Lincoln, but from what I learn't dey said dat God had placed in him
de revelation to give de plan dat he had fer every man. Dat plan fer every man to worship under
his own vine and fig tree. From dat, we should of liked Mr. Lincoln.

"Dis here 'Dick Look-Up'. No sir, I don't know him, kaise I caught his name since I come on
dis side of de river. Mr. Perrin knows him, and I heard him say dat every time anybody ax him
how old he is, he add on ten years. Dat's how come dey got in de paper he a hundred and twenty-five
years old. Now me and Mr. Perrin doesn't speak unless we is obleeged to know dat what we is
gwine to say is de truth. Us is careful, kaise us knows dat de Lawd am looking down from his
throne, and dat He is checking every word dat we says. Some folks does not recall dat fact
when dey speaks, or dey would be careful.

"I'll say it slow so dat you can catch it; I start in time of de Confederate War. Wid dirt
dug up out of de smokehouse, water was run through it so us could get salt fer bread. Hickory
wood ashes was used fer soda. If we didn't have no hickory wood, we burnt red corn cobs; and
de ashes from dem was used fer cooking soda.

"Molasses was made from watermelons in time of de war. Dey was also made from May-apples or
may-pops as some call dem, and sometimes dey was made from persimmons and from wheat brand.
In Confederate days, Irish potato tops was cooked fer vegetables. Blackberry leaves was ocassionally
used fer greens or fer seasoning lambs quarters.

"Dis way watermelon was done: Soak watermelon twenty and four hours to de'self; strain off
all juice and put on fire to bile. When dey thickens dey bees good. Yes sir, good, good.

"Wid may-pops: peel de outside green off, den bust 'em open and mash up together; strain juice
off and cook thick.

"'Simmons and wheat bran are mashed up together and baked in water. Let set twenty and four
hours and cook down to molasses. Dat winds up dat part of it.

"Git plums and blackberries and de like of dat and make up in Jelly, or can fer scarce times,
dat's de way we done den and folks does dat yet. Dese is some of de particularest things of
de Confederate times dat I come back from Sedalia to give you, dat's right. (This old negro,
who had already been interviewed by the writer, came a long way and looked-up the author to
tell him some incidents which he had forgotten to tell in the first interview.) Some customs
is done went by now, but dey was practiced in Sedalia, and as to whar dem was done fer off
as Spartanburg, I cannot say.

"In Confederate time, all wimmens stayed close home and carded and spun all de day long. Dey
wove all dere own clothes. Men at home, old men, made leather shoes and shoe strings and belts
and galloses.

"Our darkies tried hard to be obedient to our master so dat we might obtain (keep) our pleasant
home. Obedience makes it better dan sacrifice. I restes my mind dar."

  Source: George Briggs (88), Rt. What age Hester say she was?
Dat what I had thought from me en her conversation. Miss, I don'
remember a thing more bout de war den de soldiers comin through old
Massa's plantation en we chillun was 'fraid of dem en ran. Knew dey was
dressed in a different direction from us white folks. All was in blue,
you know, wid dem curious lookin hats en dem brass buttons on dey
bodies. No, mam, dey didn' stop nowhe' bout us. Dey was ridin on horses
en it seem like dey was in a hurry gwine somewhe'. En dey didn' stop to
old Massa's house neither. No, mam, not to my knowin, dey didn'. Well,
we was livin out to de plantation, we calls it, en Massa en Missus was
livin up here to Marion. Mr. Ferdinand Gibson, dat who been us Massa in
slavery time en Miss Connie, dat what we used to call her, was us
Missus. To my knowin, dey didn' have no chillun dey own, but dey sho had
plenty colored people. Yes, mam, seems like to my remembrance, my Massa
ran bout 30 plantations en 'sides dat, he had a lot of servants right up
here to de big house, men en women."

"I was real small in dem days en far as I can remember, we lived on de quarter dere to old
Massa's plantation in de country. Us little tots would go every mornin to a place up on de
hill, called de milk house, en get our milk 'tween meals while de old folks was off workin.
Oh, dey had a old woman to see after we chillun en tend to us in de daytime. De old lady dat
looked after us, her name was Mary Novlin. Lord, Mr. Gibson, he had big farms en my mother
en father, dey worked on de farms. Yes'um, my mother en father, I used to never wouldn' know
when dey come home in de evenin, it would be so late. De old lady, she looked after every blessed
thing for us all day long en cooked for us right along wid de mindin. Well, she would boil
us corn meal hominy en give us dat mostly wid milk for breakfast. Den dey would have a big
garden en she would boil peas en give us a lot of soup like dat wid dis here oven bread. Oh,
dem what worked in de field, dey would catch dey meals when dey could. Would have to cook way
in de night or sometimes fore day. Cose dey would take dey dinner rations wid dem to de field.
More or less, dey would cook it in de field. Yes'um, dey would carry dey pots wid dem en cook
right dere in de field whe' dey was workin. Would boil pots en make bread, too. I don' know
how long dey had to work, mam, but I hear dem say dat dey worked hard, cold or hot, rain or
shine. Had to hoe cotton en pick cotton en all such as dat. I don' know, mam, but de white
folks, I guess dey took it dat dey had plenty colored people en de Lord never meant for dem
to do no work. You know, white folks in dem days, dey made de colored people do."

"De people used to spin en weave, my Lord! Like today, it cloudy en rainy, dey couldn' work
in de field en would have to spin dat day. Man, you would hear dat thing windin en I remember,
I would stand dere en want to spin so bad, I never know what to do. Won' long fore I got to
whe' I could use de shuttle en weave, too. I bad a grandmother en when she would get to dat
wheel, she sho know what she been doin. White folks used to give de colored people task to
spin en I mean she could do dat spinnin. Yes'um, I here to tell you, dey would make de prettiest
cloth in dat day en time. Old time people used to have a kind of dye dey called indigo en dey
would color de cloth just as pretty as you ever did see."

"Den I recollects dat dey would have to shuck corn some of de days en wouldn' nobody work in
de field dat day. Oh, my Lord, dey would have de big eats on dem days. Would have a big pot
right out to de barn whe' dey was shuckin corn en would boil it full as it could hold wid such
as peas en rice en collards. Would cook big bread, too, en would save a hog's head for dat
purpose often times."

"Colored people didn' have no schools nowhe' in dat day en time. No'um, us didn' go to no church
neither cause we was way off dere on de plantation en wasn' any church nowhe' bout dere, Miss.
I likes to be truthful en I tellin you, when we was comin up, we never didn' know nothin 'cept
what we catch from de old folks."

"Old Massa, he used to come to de plantation drivin his rockaway en my Lord a mercy, we chillun
did love to run en meet him. Dey used to have a great big gate to de lane of de plantation
en when we been hear him comin, we would go a runnin en holler, 'Massa comin! Massa comin!'
En he would come ridin through de big gate en say, 'Yonder my little niggers! How my little
niggers? Come here en tell me how you all.' Den we would go a runnin to him en try to tell
him what he ax us. Yes'um, we was sho pleased to see old Massa cause we had to stay right dere
on dat plantation all de time round bout dat old woman what tended to us. Used to hear my mother
en my father speak bout dey had to get a ticket from dey boss to go anywhe' dey wanted to go
off de place. Pataroller catch dem off de plantation somewhe' widout dat walkin ticket, dey
would whip dem most to death. Never didn' hear bout old Massa whippin none of dem, but he was
very tight on dem, my father say. Cose he give dem abundance of rations en somethin to eat
all de time, but colored people sho been work for what dey would get in dem days. Didn' get
nothin dey never pay for. It been like dis, what rations us parents would get, dat would be
to dey house en what we chillun been get would be to de old woman's house what took care of us."

"Well, Miss, some people stays here wid me, but dey works out en I tries to help dem out somehow.
No, mam, we all stays right here together en while dey on de job, I tries to look out for de
chillun. I just thinkin bout when we come to a certain age, honey, it tough. Chillun is a heap
of trouble, I say. Well, I was de mother of five, but dey all dead 'cept one. My husband, he
been dead seven years. Yes'um, dis a bad little girl settin here in my lap en dat one over
dere in de bed, he a boy what a right smart larger den dis one." (Little girl just can stand
alone). (Little boy wakes up). "Son, dere you wantin to get up en I don' know whe' near a rag
to put on you is. Dere, you want a piece of bread fore you is dress. Who undressed you last
night nohow? Boy, you got to stand dere en wait till your mamma come home cause I can' find
none your rags. What de matter wid you? You so hungry, you just standin dere wid your mouth
droolin dat way. Dere your bread en tea on de bureau. Gwine on en get it." (Little boy's breakfast
consisted of a cold biscuit and a little cold coffee poured in an empty coffee can. The little
girl sat with a clump of cold hominy in her hand on which she nibbled.)

"Lord, I think what a blessin it would be if chillun dese days was raise like dey used to be,
Miss. Yes, mam, we had what you call strict fathers en mothers den, but chillun ain' got dem
dese days. Oh, dey would whip you en put de lash to you in dat day en time. Yes'um, Miss, if
we never do right, my father would put it to us. Sho meant what he say. Wouldn' never whip
you on Sunday though. Say dat he would get you tomorrow. Den when Monday come, he would knock
all bout like he had forget, but toreckly he would call you up en he would sho work on you.
Pa say, 'I'm not gwine let you catch me in no lie. When I tell you I gwine cut you, I gwine
do it.' Miss, I is had my mother to hurt me so bad till I would just fall down en roll in de
sand. Hurt! Dey hurt, dat dey did. Wouldn' whip you wid no clothes on neither. Would make you
pull off. Yes, mam, I could sniffle a week, dey been cut me such licks. Thought dey had done
me wrong, but dey know dey ain' been doin me wrong en I mean dey didn' play wid me."

"Miss, I think folks is livin too fast in de world today. Seems to me like all de young people
is worser, I say. Well, I tell you, dey be ridin out all times of night en girls meetin up
wid Miss Fortune. At least, our colored girls does. En don' care what dey do neither. Don'
seem to care what dey do nor how dey do. De girls nowadays, dey gets dey livin. Girls settin
higher den what dey makes demselves dese days."

  Source: Josephine Bristow, colored, 73 years, Marion, S. C.
                 Personal interview by Annie Ruth Davis, Jan., 1938

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  ANNE BROOME
  EX-SLAVE 87 YEARS OLD.

"Does you recollect de Galloway place just dis side of White Oak? Well dere's where I was born.
When? Can't name de 'zact year but my ma say, no stork bird never fetch me but de fust railroad
train dat come up de railroad track, when they built de line, fetched me. She say I was a baby,
settin' on de cow-ketcher, and she see me and say to pa: 'Reubin, run out dere and get our
baby befo' her falls off and gets hurt under them wheels! Do you know I believed dat tale 'til
I was a big girl? Sure did, 'til white folks laugh me out of it!

"My ma was name Louisa. My marster was Billie Brice, but 'spect God done write sumpin' else
on he forehead by dis time. He was a cruel marster; he whip me just for runnin' to de gate
for to see de train run by. My missus was a pretty woman, flaxen hair, blue eyes, name Mary
Simonton, 'til she marry.

"Us live in a two-room plank house. Plenty to eat and enough to wear 'cept de boys run 'round
in their shirt tails and de girls just a one-piece homespun slip on in de summer time. Dat
was not a hardship then. Us didn't know and didn't care nothin' 'bout a 'spectable 'pearance
in those days. Dats de truth, us didn't.

"Gran'pa name Obe; gran'ma, name Rachel. Shoes? A child never have a shoe. Slaves wore wooden
bottom shoes.

"My white folks went to New Hope Church. Deir chillun was mighty good to us all. Dere was Miss
Martha, her marry Doctor Madden, right here at Winnsboro. Miss Mary marry Marster John Vinson,
a little polite smilin' man, nice man, though. Then Miss Jane marry Marster John Young. He
passed out, leavin' two lovely chillun, Kitty and Maggie. Both of them marry Caldwells. Dere
was Marster Calvin, he marry Congressman Wallace's daughter, Ellen. Then dere was Marster Jim
and Marster William, de last went to Florida.

"It was a big place, I tell you, and heaps and heaps of slaves. Some times they git too many
and sell them off. My old mistress cry 'bout dat but tears didn't count wid old marster, as
long as de money come a runnin' in and de rations stayed in de smoke house.

"Us had a fine carriage. Sam was de driver. Us go to Concord one Sunday and new Hope de next.
Had quality fair neighbors. Dere was de Cockerells, 'Piscopalians, dat 'tend St. John in Winnsboro,
de Adgers, big buckra, went to Zion in Winnsboro. Marster Burr Cockerell was de sheriff. 'Members
he had to hang a man once, right in de open jailyard. Then dere was a poor buckra family name
Marshall. Our white folks was good to them, 'cause they say his pappy was close kin to de biggest
Jedge of our country, John Marshall.

"When de slaves got bad off sick, marster send for Dr. Walter Brice, his kin folks. Some times
he might send for Dr. Madden, him's son-in-law, as how he was.

"When de Yankees come, all de young marsters was off in de 'Federate side. I see them now,
gallopin' to de house, canteen boxes on their hips and de bayonets rattlin' by deir sides.
De fust thing they ask, was: 'You got any wine?' They search de house; make us sing: 'Good
Old Time 'Ligion'; put us to runnin' after de chickens and a cookin'. When they leave they
burnt de gin house and everything in dere. They burn de smoke-house and wind up wid burnin'
de big house.

"You through wid me now, boss? I sho' is glad of dat. Help all you kin to git me dat pension
befo' I die and de Lord will bless you, honey. De Lord not gwine to hold His hand any longer
'ginst us. Us cleared de forests, built de railroads, cleaned up de swamps, and nursed de white
folks. Now in our old ages, I hopes they lets de old slaves like me see de shine of some of
dat money I hears so much talk 'bout. They say it's free as de gift of grace from de hand of
de Lord. Good mornin' and God bless you, will be my prayer always. Has you got a dime to give
dis old nigger, boss?" Caleb died in Georgia where he had been sent to the penitentiary for
stealing a hog that another man stole. Aunt Hagar has grands settled all around her and she
and the grands divide up the acreage which is planted in corn, sweet potatoes, cotton, and
some highland rice. She ministers to them all when sick, acts as mid-wife when necessary, and
divides her all with her kin and friends--white and black. She wages a war on ground-moles,
at which she laughs and says she resembles. Ground-mole beans almost a foot long protect and
decorate her yard. She has apple and fig trees, and scuppernong grape vines grow rank and try
to climb all her trees.

(Monday morning she hobbles up on a stick--limping and looking sick.) Comes in kitchen door.

Lillie: "Aunt Hagar, how you?"

Hagar: "Painful. Doctor tell me I got the tonsil. Want to represent me one time and take them
out. I say, 'No Doctor! Get in hospital, can't get out! Let me stay here till my change come.'
Yeddy? I ain't wuth! Ain't wuth! Ain't got a piece o' sense. Yeddy? Ellen say she want God
to take she tomorrow? When you ready it's 'God take me now! All right son!" (Greeting Zackie
who enters kitchen.)

Zackie: "Aunt Hagar, how you feel?"

Hagar: "I ain't wuth son. How's all?"

Zackie: "Need a little more grits!"

Lillie: "Hear Zackie! Mom Hagar, that ain't hinder him ordering another!" (The fact that food
is scarce doesn't limit Zackie's family.)

Hagar: "You hear bout this Jeremiah broke in somewhere--get all kinds likker and canned things
and different thing?"

Zackie: "Must a broke in that place call 'Stumble Inn!' (Very seriously.) That Revenue man
been there."

Hagar: "I yeddy last night! Say he there in news-paper. Mary say, 'see 'em in paper!' Mrs.
White gone to child funeral. That been in paper too. Mary see that in paper. Easter say old
lady gone dere. Doctor say better go. Child sick. Child seven years old. Fore they get there
tell 'em say, 'Child dead!'

"People gone in patch to pick watermillon. Ain't want child to go. You know chillun! Child
gone in. Ain't want 'em for go. You know. Child pick watermillon. Ketch up one--I forgotten
what pound they say. Roll. Roll duh watermillon. Roll 'em on snake! They say, 'Snake bite 'em?'
Child say, 'No. Must a scratch.' See blood run on boy leg. Child get unconscion that minute.
Gone right out. Jess so. Ease out so. I cry. I cry!"

Lillie: "You know 'em, Mom Hagar?"

Hagar: "No! No! Lill, fever got me! Cold get me till my rump dead. Got hospital boy rouse one
time say, 'Ma, less go home! Red stripe snake bite me.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hagar: "Klu Klux?" (Chin cupped in hand--elbow on knee--looking way off--)

"Reckon that the way them old timey people call 'em. Have to run way, you go church. Going
to come in to ketch you or do any mischievous thing--come carry you place they going beat you--in
suit of white. Old white man to Wilderness Plantation. Parish old man name. Treat his wife
bad. Come to house, ain't crack. Come right in suit of white. Drag him out--right to Woodstock
there where Mr. Dan get shoot. Put a beating on that white man there till he mess up! Oman
never gone back to him yet!"

"A man wuz name (I forgot what the man name wuz)--wuz a white man mess round wid a colored
woman and they didn't do a God thing but gone and put a beating on you, darling! Come in. Grab
you and go. Put a beating on you till you can't see. Know they got a good grub to lick you
wid. They git done you can't sit down. Ain't going carry you just for play with."

"Mom Hagar, you wanter vote?"

Hagar: "Oh my God!"

"Aunt Hagar are the colored people happier now than the old timey slavery time people?"

Hagar: "Young people now got the world by force. Don't care. Got more trick than law low. Tricky!
Can't beat the old people. Can't equal to 'em. Some the young people you say 'AMEN' in church
they make fun o' you. Every tub stand on his own bottom. Can't truss 'em.

"Ma say some dem plan to run way. Say, 'Less run! Less run!' Master ketch dem and fetch dem
in. Lay 'em cross barrel. Beat dem till they wash in blood. Fetch 'em back. Place 'em cross
the barrel--hogsket barrel--Christ! They ramp wash in blood! Beat Ma sister. He sister sickly.
Never could clear task--like he want. My Ma have to work he self to death to help Henritta
so sickly. Clear task to keep from beat. Some obersheer mean. Oaks labor. (Meaning her Ma and
ma's family were laboring on Oaks Plantation--the plantation where Gov. Joseph Allston and
Theodosia his wife lived on Waccamaw.) Mother Sally Doctor. Ma got four chillun. One was Emmeline,
one Getty, one Katrine one Hagar! I older than Gob (Katrine). Could a call doctor for Gob if
I had any sense." (Big nuff to gone for doctor when Gob born.)

  "Stay in the field!
  Stay in the field!
  Stay in the field till the war been end!"

(This is Aunt Hagar's favorite song)

  Mom Hagar Brown--age 77
  Murrells Inlet, S. C.
  July 4th, 1937.

Hagar: "Don't take care of my age! Had me gang of chillun when ma die. I had Samuel, I had
Elias, I had Arthur, I had Beck. Oh, my God! Man, go way! I had Sally! I had Sally again. I
didn't want to give the name 'Sally' again. Say, 'First Sally come carry girl.' Ma say, 'Gin
'em name 'Sally!' I faid (afraid) that other one come back for him. Had to do what Ma say.
Had to please 'em. Ma name Sally. Ma chillun Catrine, Hagar, Emmeline, Gettie. I born Columbia.
Come Freedom, when we left Columbia, ma finer till we get in Charston. Freedom come, battle
till we get 'Oaks.' (Battled till they reached the 'Oaks Plantation--.')Stay there till people
gin (begin) move bout. Come Watsaw. Gone 'Collins Creek.' In the 'Reb Time' you know, when
they sell you bout--Massa sell you all about. Broke through them briar and branch and thing
to go to church. Them patrol get you. Church 'Old Bethel.' You don't know 'em. Been gone!

"I yeddy ma! (heard my mother) Ma say, 'I too glad my chillun aint been here Rebs time! Gin
you task you rather drown than not done that task! Ma say Auntie poor we weak creeter, couldn't
strain. Ma had to strain to fetch sister up with her task. Dere (there) in rice-field. Ma say
they on flat going to islant (island), see cloud, pray God send rain! When rooster crow, say
they pray God to stop 'em! Rooster crow, broke up wedder! When rooster crow, scare 'em. Broke
up rain! Ma say they drag the pot in the river when the flat going cross. Do this to make it
rain. Massa! Don't done you task, driver wave that whip, put you over the barrel, beat you
so blood run down! I wouldn't take 'em! Ma say, 'I too glad my chillun aint born then!'

"Any cash money? Where you gwine get 'em? Only cash the gospel! Have to get the gospel. Give
you cloth! Give you ration! Jess (just according) many chillun you got. Ma say chillun feed
all the corn to the fowl.

  Chillun say,

    'Papa love he fowl!
    Papa love he fowl!
    Three peck a day!
    Three peck a day!

"Parent come to door. Not a grain of corn leave! Poor people! Come, drop! Not a grain! Everybody
on the hill help. One give this; one give that. Handle 'em light! (Very careful with victuals).
Gone you till Saddy (Saturday.) (Will last you until Saturday when you are rationed again.)

"When Ma get down, she say, 'I gone leave! I gone leave here now! But, oh, Hagar! Be a mudder
and fadder for Katrine!'

"I say, (I call Katrine 'Gob') I say, 'Better tell Gob to look atter me!'

"Ma say, 'When I gone I ax the Master when he take me, to send drop o' rain to let true believer
know I gone to Glory!'

"When they lift the body to take 'em to the church, rain, 'Tit! Tit! Tit! Tit!' on the house!
At the gate, moon shine out' Going to the church! Bury to the 'Oaks.'

"Gob say, 'Titty, all you chillun bury at Oaks. Ma to Oaks. How come you wanter bury Watsaw?"

"I say, 'When the trumpet sound, I yeddy!' (When the trumpet sounds, I'll hear it!)

"I marry right to Collins Creek hill. Big dance out the door! I free! I kick up! Ma, old rebs
time people!" We marry to Turkey Hill Plantation. Hot supper. Cake, wine, and all. Kill cow,
hog, chicken and all. That time when you marry, so much to eat! Finance wedding! Now--

"We 'lamp-oil chillun'; they 'lectric light' chillun now! We call our wedding 'lamp-oil wedding'.
Hall jam full o' people; out-of-door jam full. Stand before the chimbley.

"When that first war come through, we born. I don't know just when I smell for come in the world.

"Big storm? Yinnah talk big storm hang people up on tree? (Noah!) Shake? I here in house. House
gone, 'Rack-a-rack-a-racker!'

"My husband run out--with me and my baby left in bed! Baby just come in time of the shake.

"When I first have sense, I 'member I walk on the frost bare-feet. Cow-belly shoe.

"My husband mother have baby on the flat going to Marion and he Auntie Cinda have a baby on
that flat.

"From yout (youth) I been a Brown and marry a Brown; title never change.

"Old timey sing?

  1.

  "Wish I had a hundred dog
  And half wuz hound!
  Take it in my fadder field
  And we run the rabbit down!
  Chorus: Now he hatch
  He hatch!
  He hatch!
  And I run the rabbit down!

  2.

  "I wish I had a hundred head o' dog
  And half of them wuz hound
  I'd take 'em back in my bacco field
  And run the rabbit down.
  Chorus: Now he hatch--he hatch!
  He hatch--he hatch!
  Now he hatch--he hatch!
  And I run them rabbit down!"

"That wuz a sing we used to have on the plantation. Then we make up sing--we have sing for
chillun. Make 'em go sleep. Every one have his own sing.

  "Bye-o-baby!
  Go sleepy!
  Bye-o-baby!
  Go sleepy!
  What a big alligator
  Coming to catch
  This one boy!"

  "Diss here the Watson one boy child!

Emmie Jordan: "Missus, I too plague with bad heart trouble to give you the sing!"

  Song and conversation Given by

  Mom Louisa Brown (Born time of 'Reb people War')
  Waverly Mills, S. C.
  Near Parkersville, S. C.

  Project -1655
  Jessie A. Butler
  Charleston, S. C.
  Approximately 930 words

  FOLKLORE

  Stories from Ex-slaves
  Henry Brown
  Ex-slave Age 79

Henry Brown, negro caretaker of the Gibbes House, at the foot of Grove street, once a part
of Rose Farm, is a splendid example of a type once frequently met with in the South. Of a rich
brown complexion, aquiline of feature, there is none of the "Gullah" about Henry. He is courteous
and kindly in his manner, and speaks more correctly than the average negro.

"My father was Abram Brown, and my mother's name was Lucy Brown," he said. "They were slaves
of Dr. Arthur Gordon Rose. My grandfather and grandmother were grown when they came from Africa,
and were man and wife in Africa. I was born just about two years before the war so I don't
remember anything about slavery days, and very little about war times, except that we were
taken to Deer Pond, about half mile from Columbia. Dr. Rose leased the place from Dr. Ray,
and took his family there for safety. My mother died while he was at Deer Pond, and was buried
there, but all the rest of my people is buried right here at Rose Farm. My two brothers were
a lot older than me, and were in the war. After the war my brother Tom was on the police force,
he was a sergeant, and they called him Black Sergeant. My brother Middleton drove the police
wagon: they used to call it Black Maria.

"My father, Abram Brown, was the driver or head man at Rose plantation. Dr. Rose thought a
heap of him, and during the war he put some of his fine furniture and other things he brought
from England in my father's house and told him if the Yankees came to say the things belonged
to him. Soon after that the soldiers came. They asked my father who the things belonged to
and he said they belonged to him. The soldiers asked him who gave them to him, and he said
his master gave them to him. The Yankees told him that they thought he was lying, and if he
didn't tell the truth they would kill him, but he wouldn't say anything else so they left him
alone and went away.

"Work used to start on the plantation at four o'clock in the morning, when the people went
in the garden. At eight or nine o'clock they went into the big fields. Everybody was given
a task of work. When you finished your task you could quit. If you didn't do your work right
you got a whipping.

"The babies were taken to the Negro house and the old women and young colored girls who were
big enough to lift them took care of them. At one o'clock the babies were taken to the field
to be nursed, then they were brought back to the Negro house until the mothers finished their
work, then they would come for them.

"Dr. Rose gave me to his son, Dr. Arthur Barnwell Rose, for a Christmas present. After the
war Dr. Rose went back to England. He said he couldn't stay in a country with so many free
Negroes. Then his son Dr. Arthur Barnwell Rose had the plantation. Those was good white people,
good white people.

"The colored people were given their rations once a week, on Monday, they got corn, and a quart
of molasses, and three pounds of bacon, and sometimes meat and peas. They had all the vegetables
they wanted; they grew them in the gardens. When the boats first came in from Africa with the
slaves, a big pot of peas was cooked and the people ate it with their hands right from the
pot. The slaves on the plantation went to meeting two nights a week and on Sunday they went
to Church, where they had a white preacher Dr. Rose hired to preach to them.

"After the war when we came back to Charleston I went to work as a chimney-sweep. I was seven
years old then. They paid me ten cents a story. If a house had two stories I got twenty cents;
if it had three stories I got thirty cents. When I got too big to go up the chimneys I went
back to Rose plantation. My father was still overseer or driver. I drove a cart and plowed.
Afterwards I worked in the phosphate mines, then came back here to take care of the garden
and be caretaker. I planted all these Cherokee roses you see round here, and I had a big lawn
of Charleston grass. I aint able to keep it like I used to."

Henry is intensely religious. He says "the people don't notice God now because they're free."
"Some people say there aint no hell," he continued, "but I think there must be some kind of
place like that, because you got to go some place when you leave this earth, and you got to
go to the master that you served when you were here. If you serve God and obey His commandments
then you go to Him, but if you don't pay any attention to what he tells you in His Book, just
do as you choose and serve the devil, then you got to go to him. And it don't make any difference
if you're poor or rich, it don't matter what the milliner (millionaire) man says."

He seemed so proud of his garden, with its broad view across the Ashley River, showing his
black walnut, pear and persimmon trees, grape vines and roses, that the writer said, "Henry,
you know a poet has said that we are nearer God in the garden than anywhere else on earth."
"Well ma'am, you see," he replied, with a winning smile, "that's where God put us in the first
place."

  Project #1655
  Augustus Ladson
  Charleston, S. C.

  EX-SLAVE BORN 1857
  GRAND PARENTS CAME DIRECTLY FROM AFRICA

I was nickname' durin' the days of slavery. My name was Henry but they call' me Toby. My sister,
Josephine, too was nickname' an' call' Jessee. Our mistress had a cousin by that name. My oldes'
bredder was a Sergeant on the Charleston Police Force around 1868. I had two other sister',
Louise an' Rebecca.

My firs' owner was Arthur Barnwell Rose. Then Colonel A. G. Rhodes bought the plantation who
sol' it to Capen Frederick W. Wagener. James Sottile then got in possession who sol' it to
the DeCostas, an' a few weeks ago Mrs. Albert Callitin Simms, who I'm tol' is a former member
of Congress, bought it. Now I'm wonderin' if she is goin' to le' me stay. I hope so 'cus I'm
ol' now en can't work.

My pa was name' Abraham Brown; he was bo'n on Coals Islan' in Beaufort County. Colonel Rhodes
bought him for his driver, then he move here. I didn't know much 'bout him; he didn't live
so long afta slavery 'cus he was ol.

Colonel Rhodes had a son an' a daughter. The son went back to England afta his death an' the
daughter went to Germany with her husban'. They ain't never come back so the place was sol'
for tax.

Durin' the war we was carry to Deer Pond, twelve miles on dis side of Columbia. W'en the war
was end' pa brought my sister, Louise, Rebecca, who was too small to work, Josephine an' me,
home. All my people is long-lifted. My grand pa an' grand ma on pa side come right from Africa.
They was stolen an' brought here. They use to tell us of how white men had pretty cloth on
boats which they was to exchange for some of their o'nament'. W'en they take the o'nament'
to the boat they was carry way down to the bottom an' was lock' in. They was anchored on or
near Sullivan's Islan' w'ere they been feed like dogs. A big pot was use' for cookin'. In that
pot peas was cook' an' lef' to cool. Everybody went to the pot with the han's an' all eat frum
the pot.

I was bo'n two years before the war an' was seven w'en it end. That was in 1857. I never went
to school but five months in my life, but could learn easy. Very seldom I had to be tol' to
do the same thing twice.

The slaves had a plenty o' vegetables all the time. Master planted t'ree acres jus' for the
slaves which was attended to in the mornin's before tas' time. All provision was made as to
the distribution on Monday evenin's afta tas'.

My master had two place: one on Big Islan' an' on Coals Islan' in Beaufort County. He didn't
have any overseer. My pa was his driver.

Pa say this place was given to Mr. Rhodes with a thousand acres of lan' by England. But it
dwindled to thirty-five w'en the other was taken back by England.

There wasn't but ten slaves on this plantation. The driver call' the slaves at four so they
could git their breakfas'. They always work the garden firs' an' at seven go in the co'n an'
cotton fiel'. Some finish their tas' by twelve an' others work' 'til seven but had the tas'
to finish. No one was whip' 'less he needed it; no one else could whip master' slaves. He wouldn't
stan' for it. We had it better then than now 'cause white men lynch an' burn now an' do other
things they couldn't do then. They shoot you down like dogs now, an' nothin' said or done.

No slave was suppose' to be whip' in Charleston except at the Sugar House. There was a jail
for whites, but if a slave ran away an' got there he could disown his master an' the state
wouldn't le' him take you.

All collud people has to have a pass w'en they went travelin'; free as well as slaves. If one
didn't the patrollers, who was hired by rich white men would give you a good whippin' an' sen'
you back home. My pa didn't need any one to write his pass 'cause he could write as well as
master. How he got his education, I didn't know.

Sat'day was a workin' day but the tas' was much shorter then other days. Men didn't have time
to frolic 'cause they had to fin' food for the fambly; master never give 'nough to las' the
whole week. A peck o' co'n, t'ree pound o' beacon, quart o' molasses, a quart o' salt, an'
a pack o' tobacco was given the men. The wife got the same thing but chillun accordin' to age.
Only one holiday slaves had an' that was Christmas.

Co'nshuckin' parties was conducted by a group of fa'mers who take their slaves or sen' them
to the neighborin' ones 'til all the co'n was shuck'. Each one would furnish food 'nough for
all slaves at his party. Some use to have nothin' but bake potatas an' some kind of vegetable.

An unmarried young man was call' a half-han'. W'en he want to marry he jus' went to master
an' say there's a gal he would like to have for wife. Master would say yes an' that night more
chicken would be fry an' everything eatable would be prepare at master' expense. The couple
went home afta the supper, without any readin' of matrimony, man an' wife.

A man once married his ma en' didn't know it. He was sell from her w'en 'bout eight years old.
When he grow to a young men, slavery then was over, he met this woman who he like' an' so they
were married. They was married a month w'en one night they started to tell of their experiences
an' how many times they was sol'. The husban' tol' how he was sol' from his mother who liked
him dearly. He tol' how his ma faint' w'en they took him away an' how his master then use to
bran' his baby slaves at a year ol'. W'en he showed her the bran' she faint' 'cause she then
realize' that she had married her son.

Slaves didn't have to use their own remedy for sickness for good doctors been hired to look
at them. There was, as is, though, some weed use for fever an' headache as: blacksnake root,
furrywork, jimpsin weed, one that tie' on the head which bring sweat from you like hail, an'
hickory leaf. If the hickory is keep on the head too long it will blister it.

W'en the war was fightin' the white men burn the bridge at the foot of Spring Street so the
Yankees couldn't git over but they buil' pontoos while some make the horses swim 'cross. One
night while at Deer Pond, I hear something like thunder until 'bout eleven the next day. W'en
the thing I t'ought was thunder stop', master tell us that evenin' we was free. I wasn't surprise
to know for as little as I was I know the Yankees was goin' to free us with the help of God.

I was married twice, an' had two gals an' a boy with firs' wife. I have t'ree boys with the
second; the younges' is jus' eight.

Lincoln did jus' what God inten' him to do, but I think nothin' 'bout Calhoun on 'account of
what he say in one of his speech 'bout collud people. He said: "keep the niggers down."

To see collud boys goin' 'round now with paper an' pencil in their han's don't look real to
me. Durin' slavery he would be whip' 'til not a skin was lef' on his body.

My pa was a preacher why I become a Christian so early; he preach' on the plantation to the
slaves. On Sunday the slaves went to the white church. He use to tell us of hell an' how hot
it is. I was so 'fraid of hell 'til I was always tryin' to do the right thing so I couldn't
go to that terrible place.

I don't care 'bout this worl' an' its vanities 'cause the Great Day is comin' w'en I shall
lay down an' my stammerin' tongue goin' to lie silent in my head. I want a house not made with
han's but eternal in the Heavens. That Man up there, is all I need; I'm goin' to still trus'
Him. Before the comin' of Chris' men was kill' for His name sake; today they curse Him. It's
nearly time for the world to come to en' for He said "bout two thousand years I shall come
again" an' that time is fas' approachin'.

  Source

  Interview with Henry Brown, 637 Grove Street. He is much concerned with
  the Scottsboro Case and discusses the invasion of Italy into defenseless
  Ethiopia intelligently.

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon,
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  JOHN C. BROWN AND ADELINE BROWN
  EX-SLAVES 86 YEARS AND 96 YEARS OLD.

John C. Brown and his wife, Adeline, who is eleven years older than himself, live in a ramshackle
four-room frame house in the midst of a cotton field, six miles west of Woodward, S. C. John
assisted in laying the foundation and building the house forty-four years ago. A single china-berry
tree, gnarled but stately, adds to, rather than detracts from, the loneliness of the dilapidated
house. The premises and thereabout are owned by the Federal Land Bank. The occupants pay no
rent. Neither of them are able to work. They have been fed by charity and the W. P. A. for
the past eighteen months.

(John talking)

"Where and when I born? Well, dat'll take some 'hear say', Mister. I never knowed my mammy.
They say she was a white lady dat visited my old marster and mistress. Dat I was found in a
basket, dressed in nice baby clothes, on de railroad track at Dawkins, S. C. De engineer stop
de train, got out, and found me sumpin' like de princess found Moses, but not in de bulrushes.
Him turn me over to de conductor. De conductor carry me to de station at Dawkins, where Marse
Tom Dawkins come to meet de train dat mornin' and claim me as found on his land. Him say him
had de best right to me. De conductor didn't 'ject to dat. Marse Tom carry me home and give
me to Miss Betsy. Dat was his wife and my mistress. Her always say dat Sheton Brown was my
father. He was one of de slaves on de place; de carriage driver. After freedom he tell me he
was my real pappy. Him took de name of Brown and dat's what I go by.

"My father was a ginger-bread colored man, not a full-blooded nigger. Dat's how I is altogether
yallow. See dat lady over dere in dat chair? Dat's my wife. Her brighter skinned than I is.
How come dat? Her daddy was a full-blooded Irishman. He come over here from Ireland and was
overseer for Marse Bob Clowney. He took a fancy for Adeline's mammy, a bright 'latto gal slave
on de place. White women in them days looked down on overseers as poor white trash. Him couldn't
git a white wife but made de best of it by puttin' in his spare time a honeyin' 'round Adeline's
mammy. Marse Bob stuck to him, and never 'jected to it.

"When de war come on, Marse Richard, de overseer, shoulder his gun as a soldier and, as him
was educated more than most of de white folks, him rise to be captain in de Confederate Army.
It's a pity him got kilt in dat war.

"My marster, Tom Dawkins, have a fine mansion. He owned all de land 'round Dawkins and had
'bout 200 slaves, dat lived in good houses and was we well fed. My pappy was de man dat run
de mill and grind de wheat and corn into flour and meal. Him never work in de field. He was
'bove dat. Him 'tend to de ginnin' of de cotton and drive de carriage.

"De Yankees come and burn de mansion, de gin-house and de mill. They take all de sheep, mules,
cows, hogs and even de chickens. Set de slaves free and us niggers have a hard time ever since.

"My black stepmammy was so mean to me dat I run away. I didn't know where to go but landed
up, one night, at Adeline's mammy's and steppappy's house, on Marse Bob Clowney's place. They
had been slaves of Marse Bob and was livin' and workin' for him. I knock on de door. Mammy
Charity, dat's Adeline's mammy, say: 'Who dat?' I say: 'Me'. Her say: 'Who is me?' I say: 'John'.
Her say: 'John who?' I say: 'Just John'. Her say: 'Adeline, open de door, dat's just some poor
boy dat's cold and hungry. Charity is my fust name. Your pappy ain't come yet but I'll let
dat boy in 'til he come and see what he can do 'bout it.'

"When Adeline open dat door, I look her in de eyes. Her eyes melt towards me wid a look I never
see befo' nor since. Mind you, I was just a boy fourteen, I 'spects, and her a woman twenty-five
then. Her say: 'You darlin' little fellow; come right in to de fire.' Oh, my! She took on over
me! Us wait 'til her pappy come in. Then him say: 'What us gonna do wid him?' Adeline say:
'Us gonna keep him.' Pappy say: 'Where he gonna sleep?' Adeline look funny. Mammy say: 'Us'll
fix him a pallet by de fire.' Adeline clap her hands and say: 'You don't mind dat, does you
boy?' I say: 'No ma'am, I is slept dat way many a time.'

"Well, I work for Marse Bob Clowney and stayed wid Adeline's folks two years. I sure made myself
useful in dat family. Never 'spicioned what Adeline had in her head, 'til one day I climbed
up a hickory nut tree, flail de nuts down, come down and was helpin' to pick them up when she
bump her head 'ginst mine and say: 'Oh, Lordy!' Then I pat and rub her head and it come over
me what was in dat head! Us went to de house and her told de folks dat us gwine to marry.

"Her led me to de altar dat nex' Sunday. Gived her name to de preacher as Adeline Cabean. I
give de name of John Clowney Brown. Marse Bob was dere and laugh when de preacher call my name,
'John Clowney Brown'.

"Our chillun come pretty fast. I was workin' for $45.00 a year, wid rations. Us had three pounds
of bacon, a peck of meal, two cups of flour, one quart of 'lasses, and one cup of salt, a week.

"Us never left Marse Robert as long as him lived. When us have four chillun, him increase de
amount of flour to four cups and de 'lasses to two quarts. Then him built dis house for de
old folks and Adeline and de chillun to live in. I help to build it forty-four years ago. Our
chillun was Clarice, Jim, John, Charity, Tom, Richard, and Adeline.

"I followed Marse Robert Clowney in politics, wore a red shirt, and voted for him to go to
de Legislature. Him was 'lected dat time but never cared for it no more.

"Adeline b'long to de church. Always after me to jine but I can't believe dere is anything
to it, though I believes in de law and de Ten Commandments. Preacher calls me a infidel. Can't
help it. They is maybe got me figured out wrong. I believes in a Great Spirit but, in my time,
I is seen so many good dogs and hosses and so many mean niggers and white folks, dat I 'clare,
I is confused on de subject. Then I can't believe in a hell and everlastin' brimstone. I just
think dat people is lak grains of corn: dere is some good grains and some rotten grains. De
good grains is res'rected, de rotten grains never sprout again. Good people come up again and
flourish in de green fields of Eden. Bad people no come up. Deir bodies and bones just make
phosphate guano, 'round de roots of de ever bloomin' tree of life. They lie so much in dis
world, maybe de Lord will just make 'lie' soap out of them. What you think else they would
be fit for?"

  Project #1655
  Martha S. Pinckney
  Charleston, S. C.

  FOLKLORE
  Approx. 660 words

  INTERVIEW WITH EX-SLAVE
  Age 88-90

Mary Frances Brown is a typical product of the old school of trained house servants, an unusual
delicate type, somewhat of the Indian cast, to which race she is related. She is always clean
and neat, a refined old soul, as individuals of that class often are. Her memory, sight and
hearing are good for her advanced age.

"Our home Marlboro. Mas Luke Turnage was my master--Marlboro-Factory-Plantation name 'Beauty
Spot'. My missis was right particular about neat and clean. She raise me for a house girl.
My missis was good to me, teach me ebbery ting, and take the Bible and learn me Christianified
manners, charity, and behaviour and good respect, and it with me still.

"We didn't have any hard times, our owners were good to us--no over share (overseer) and no
whippin'--he couldn't stan' that. I live there 'til two year after freedom; how I come to leave,
my mother sister been sick, and she ask mother to send one of us, an she send me. My mother
been Miss Nancy cook. Miss Nancy was Mas Luke's mother--it take me two years learning to eat
the grub they cook down here in Charleston. I had to learn to eat these little piece of meat--we
had a dish full of meat; the big smoke house was lined from the top down. (Describing how the
meat hung) I nebber accustom to dese little piece of meat, so--what dey got here. Missis, if
you know smoke house, didn't you find it hard? My master had 'til he didn't know what to do
with. My white people were Gentile." (Her tone implied that she considered them the acme of
gentle folks). "I don't know what the other people were name that didn't have as much as we
had--but I know my people were Gentile!"

Just here her daughter and son appeared, very unlike their mother in type. The daughter is
quite as old looking as her mother; the son, a rough stevedore. When the writer suggested that
the son must be a comfort, she looked down sadly and said in a low tone, as if soliloquizing,
"He way is he way." Going back to her former thought, she said, "All our people were good.
Mas Luke was the worse one." (This she said with an indulgent smile) "Cause he was all the
time at the race ground or the fair ground.

"Religion rules Heaven and Earth, an there is no religion now--harricanes an washin-aways is
all about. Ebberything is change. Dis new name what they call grip is pleurisy-cold--putrid
sore-throat is called somethin'--yes, diptheria. Cuttin (surgery) come out in 1911! They kill
an they cure, an they save an they loss.

"My Gran'ma trained with Indians--she bin a Indian, an Daniel C. McCall bought her. She nebber
loss a baby." (the first Indian relationship that the writer can prove). "You know Dr. Jennings?
Ebberybody mus' know him. After he examine de chile an de mother, an 'ee alright, he hold de
nurse responsible for any affection (infection) that took place.

"Oh! I know de spiritual--but Missis, my voice too weak to sing--dey aint in books; if I hear
de name I can sing--'The Promise Land', Oh, how Mas Joel Easterling (born 1796) use to love
to sing dat!"

  "I am bound for de Promise Land!
  Oh! who will arise an go with me?
  I am bound for the Promise Land!
  I've got a mother in the Promise Land,
  My mother calls me an I mus go,
  To meet her in the Promise Land!"

  Source: Mary Frances Brown, Age 88-90, East Bay Street, Charleston,
          S. C.

  Project #-1655
  Cassels R. Tiedeman
  Charleston, S. C.

  FOLKLORE

  INTERVIEW WITH AN EX-SLAVE

Mary Frances Brown, about ninety years of age, born in slavery, on the plantation of Luke Turnage,
in Marlboro County, was raised as a house-servant and shows today evidence of most careful
training. Her bearing is rather a gentle refined type, seemingly untouched by the squalor in
which she lives. She willingly gives freely of her small store of strength to those around her.

Her happiest days seem to have been those of her early youth, for when she was questioned about
the present times, and even about those closely associated with her today she bowed her head
and said: "Deir way is deir way. O! let me tell you now, de world is in a haad (hard) time,
wust (worse) den it eber (ever) been, but religion! It eberywhere in Hebben an' in de ert (earth)
too, if you want em. De trouble is you ain't want em; 'e right dere jes de same but de time
done pass when dis generation hold wid anyt'ing but de debbul. When I a gal, grown up, I had
a tight missus dat raise me, you hab to keep clean round her, she good an' kind an' I lub her
yet, but don't you forgit to mind what she say.

"My massa, he 'low no whipping on de plantation, he talk heap an' he scold plenty, but den
he hab to. Dere was haad time for two year after de war was ober (over) but after dat it better
den it is now. Dis is de wust time eber. I ain't eber git use to de wittle (victual) you hab
down here. I lib ober Mount Pleasant twenty five year after I come from de old place up Marlboro,
den I come to Charleston.

"Dey were happy time back dere. My massa, he run round ebery way, spend plenty money on horse
race, he gib good time to eberybody an' tell us we mus' tek good care of de missus when he
ain't dere. An de wittles we hab I ain't nebber see de lak no time. Dem were de times to lib.
I old now but I ain't forgit what my missus larn (learn) me. It right here in me."

Mary Frances was asked if she could sing spirituals. The following is one that she sang in
a very high pitched wavering voice and then she complained of shortness of breath on account
of her heart.

  "We got a home ober dere,
  Come an' let us go,
  Come an' let us go,
  Where pleasure neber (never) die.

  Chorus:

  "Oh! let us go where pleasure neber die,
  Neber die,
  Come and let us go,
  Where pleasure neber die, neber die.

  "Mother is gone ober dere,
  Mother is gone ober dere,
  Where pleasure neber die,
  Where pleasure neber die. Been here de startin of
de first war. I belong to de Cusaac dat live 15 miles low Florence on de
road what take you on to Georgetown. I recollects de Yankees come dere
in de month of June en free de colored peoples."

"My white folks give me to de doctors in dem days to try en learn me for a nurse. Don' know
exactly how old I was in dat day en time, but I can tell you what I done. My Lord, child, can'
tell dat. Couldn' never tell how many baby I bring in dis world, dey come so fast. I betcha
I got more den dat big square down dere to de courthouse full of em. I nurse 13 head of chillun
in one family right here in dis town. You see dat all I ever did have to do. Was learnt to
do dat. De doctor tell me, say, when you call to a 'oman, don' you never hesitate to go en
help her en you save dat baby en dat mother both. Dat what I is always try to do. Heap of de
time just go en let em pay me by de chance. Oh, my Lord, a 'oman birth one of dem babies here
bout two weeks ago wid one of dem veil over it face. De Lord know what make dat, I don', but
dem kind of baby sho wiser den de other kind of baby. Dat thing look just like a thin skin
dat stretch over da baby face en come down low it's chin. Have to take en pull it back over
it's forehead en den de baby can see en holler all it ever want to. My blessed, honey, wish
I had many a dollar as I see veil over baby face. Sho know all bout dem kind of things."

"Oh, honey, I tell you de people bless dis day en time. Don' know nothin bout how to be thankful
enough for what dey have dese days. I tell de truth de peoples sho had to scratch bout en make
what dey had in slavery time. Baby, dey plant patches of okra en parch dat en make what coffee
dey have. Den dey couldn' get no shoes like dey hab dese days neither. Just make em out of
de hide of dey own cows dat dey butcher right dere on de plantation. Coase de peoples had plenty
sometin to eat like meat en turkey en chicken en thing like dat. Oh, my God, couldn' see de
top of de smoke house for all de heap of meat dey have in dem times. En milk en butter, honey,
dey didn' never be widout plenty of dat. De peoples bout here dese days axes ten cents a quart
for sweet milk en five cents a quart for old sour clabber. What you think bout dat? Dat how-come
people have to hunt jobs so mucha dese days. Have to do some sorta work cause you know dey
got to put sometin in dey mouth somewhe' or another. Oh, my child, slavery days was troublesome
times. Sugar en salt never run free wid de peoples den neither. I know de day been here when
salt was so scarce dat dey had to go to de seashore en get what salt dey had. I gwine to tell
you all bout dat. Dey hitch up two horses to a wagon en den dey make another horse go in front
of de wagon to rest de other horses long de way. Dey mostly go bout on a Monday en stay three
days. Boil dat salty water down dere en fetch two en three of dem barrel of salt back wid em
dey get dat way. It was just like dis, it take heap of salt when dey had dem big hog-killin
days. En de sugar, dey make dat too. Made de sugar in lil blocks dat dey freeze just like dey
freeze ice dis day en time. I know dey do dat--know it. Dey make molasses en some of it would
be lighter den de other en dey freeze dat en make de prettiest lil squares just like de ice
you see dese days. Dey have sometin to freeze it in. Dis here old black mammy know heap of
things you ain' never hear bout. Oh, baby, de peoples sho bless dese days."

"Oh, my god, de colored peoples worship to de white folks church in slavery time. You know
dat Hopewell Church over de river dere, dat a slavery church. Dat whe' I go to church den wid
my white folks. I had a lil chair wid a cowhide bottom dat I always take everywhe' I go wid
me. If I went to church, dat chair go in de carriage wid me en den I take it in de church en
set right by de side of my Miss. Dat how it was in slavery time. Oh, my Lord, dere a big slavery
people graveyard dere to dat Hopewell Church."

"Honey, you mind if I smoke my pipe a lil whilst I settin here talkin wid you. I worry so much
wid dis high blood dese days en a ringin in my ears dat my pipe de only thing dat does seem
to satisfy my soul. I tell you dat high blood a bad thing. It get such a hold on me awhile
back dat I couldn' do nothin, couldn' pick cotton, couldn' say my--me, couldn' even say, God
a mighty--thing pretty. Oh, I don' know. I start smokin pipe long time ago when I first start
nursin babies. Had to do sometin like dat den."

"No, Lord, I never believe nothin bout dat but what God put here. I hear some people say dey
was conjure, but I don' pay no attention to dey talk. Dey say somebody poison em for sometin
dey do, but dere ain' nobody do dat. God gwine to put you down when he get ready. Ain' nobody
else do dat."

"Oh, my Lord, I been here a time. I sho been here a time en I thank de Lord I here dis day
en time. I can thread my needle good as ever I could en I ain' have no speck neither. Sew night
en day. De chillun have dey lamp dere studyin en I hab my lamp dere sewin. My old Miss learnt
me to sew when I stay right in de house wid her all de time. I stay bout white folks all my
life en dat how-come I so satisfy when I wid em." Lives wid dis grand-daughter dat been sick
in bed for four weeks, but she mendin some now. She been mighty low, child. It start right
in here (chest) en run down twixt her shoulder. She had a tear up cold too, but Dr. Dibble
treat her en de cough better now. She got three chillun dere dat come just like steps. One
bout like dat en another like dat en de other bout like dis."

"De house we stay in a two room house wid one of dese end chimney. All sleep in de same room
en cook en eat in de other room. My bed on one side en Sue bed on de other side. Put chillun
on quilts down on de floor in de other end of de room. Baby, whe' dem curtains you say you
gwine give me? I gwine hang dese up in Sue room. Dey help me fix up de room nice en decent like."

"It all on me to feed en clothe both dem chillun en de baby too. It just too much on me old
as I is. Can' do nothin worth to speak bout hardly dese days. Can' hold my head down cause
dis high blood worries me so much. It get too hot, can' iron. If ain' too hot, I makes out
to press my things somehow en sweep my yard bout. Sometimes I helps little bit wid doctor case,
but not often. Can wash de baby en de mother, but can' do no stayin up at night. No, baby,
can' do no settin up at night."

"I tries to catch all what little I can to help along cause dat how I was raise up. Government
truck brings me little somethin once a month pack up in packages like dry milk en oatmeal en
potatoes. Give dat to all dem dat can' work en ain' got nobody to help dem. Dat dry milk a
good thing to mix up de bread wid en den it a help to fix little milk en bread for dem two
little ones. De potatoes, I stews dem for de chillun too. Dey mighty fond of dem. Now de oatmeal,
de chillun don' eat dat so I fixes it for Sue en every now en den I takes a little bit wid
my breakfast."

"I don' know much what to tell you bout Abraham Lincoln. I think he was a mighty great man,
a mighty great man, what I hear of him."

"I remembers de Yankees come dere to my white folks plantation one day en, child, dere was
a time on dat place. All dem niggers was just a kickin up dey heels en shoutin. I was standin
dere on de piazza lookin at dem en I say, 'I don' see why dey want to carry on like dat for.
I been free all de time.' When dey get through de Yankees tell dem dey was free as dey Massa
was en give dem so many bushels of corn en so much meat for dey own. Some take dey pile en
go on off en some choose to stay on dere wid dey Missus. She was good to all her colored people
en dey stay on dere for part de crop. Give dem so much of de crop accordin to de chillun dey
had to feed. I know dis much, dey all know dey gwine get 12 bushels of corn a year, if dey
ain' get no more. Dat a bushel every month. Yes, dat how it was."

"O Lord, baby, I don' know a thing bout none of dat thing call conjurin. Don' know nothin bout
it. Dat de devil work en I ain' bother wid it. Dey say some people can kill you, but dey ain'
bother me. Some put dey trust in it, but not me. I put my trust in de Lord cause I know it
just a talk de people have. No, Lord, I can' remember dat neither. I hear dem say Raw Head
en Bloody Bones would catch you if you be bad, but how it started, I don' know. I know I don'
know nothin bout how dey look en I don' want to see dem neither. No, child, people say dey
sho to be, but I ain' see none. How dey look, I don' know."

"I don' know what to think bout de times dese days. De times worse den dey used to be, child.
You know dey worse. Dis here a fast time de people livin on cause everybody know de people
die out heap faster den dey used to. Don' care how dey kill you up. No, child, dey sho worser.
My people en yunnah people. Don' it seem so to you dat dey worser?"

"Baby, I got to get up from here en leave now cause I huntin medicine dis mornin. I ain' got
time to tell you nothin else dis time, but I gwine get my mind fix up on it en den your old
black mammy comin back fore long en stay all day wid you en your mamma. What time dat clock
say it now, honey? I got to hurry en catch de doctor fore he get away from his office en be
so scatter bout till nobody can' tell whe' he is. Dr. Dibble a good doctor, a mighty good doctor.
When he come, don' never come in no hurry. Takes pains wid you. Dat been my doctor. I is just
devoted to him."

  Source: Mom Sara Brown, ex-slave, age 85, Marion, S. C.
                 Second Report.

Margaret: "Missus, I ain't wuth! I ain't wuth!"

Visitor: "Aunt Margaret you've been here a long time. How old are you?"

Margaret: "I can't tell you my age no way in the world! When freedom come, I been here. Not
big nuff (enough) for work for the Reb, but I been here Reb time. Been big nuff (enough) to
know when Yankee gun-boat come to Watsaw (Wachesaw). Whole gang o' Yankee come to the house
and didn't do a thing but ketch (catch) a gang o' fowl and gone on. And tell the people (meaning
the slaves) to take the house and go in and get what they want. The obersheer (overseer) hear
the Doctor whistle to the gate and wabe (wave) him back. And then the Doctor know the Yankee
been there and he gone on to the creek house and get all he gold and ting (thing) out the house
and gone--Marion till Freedom then he come back.

"Yankee come in that night. Moon shine lak a day. Stay in the Doctor house that night. Morning
come, take a gang o' fowl and gone on!"

Visitor: "Aunt Margaret, what was your name before you were married?"

Margaret: "Margaret One. Brother and sister? I ain't one when I come here. Ain't meet aunty,
uncle--none. Me and my brudder Michael wuz twin. I ain't meet none when I come here. All been
sell. Me and my Ma One here. Mary One. Husband title, husband nichel (initial) been 'One.'
Number one carpenter--give 'em that name Michael One--and he gibe 'em that name. Born Sandy
Island. Been to landing to Watsaw when gun-boat come. Just a sneak long! Boat white. Hab (have)
a red chimbley (chimney.) Didn't try to carry we off. Tell 'em 'Go and help youself.' Been
after the buckra. (The Yankee trying to catch the buckra.)

"I see my Ma dye with some bush they call 'indigo,' and black walnut bark. Big old pen for
the sheep-folds.

"My Pa sister, Ritta One had that job. Nuss (nurse) the chillun. Chillun house. One woman nuss
(nurse) all the chillun while they ma in the field--rice field. All size chillun. Git the gipsy
(gypsum) weed. Beat 'em up for worm. Give 'em when the moon change. Take a bucket and follow
dem. And tell the Doctor how much a worm that one make and that one and count dem (them). When
the moon change, do that.

"I have one born with caul. Loss he caul. Rat carry 'em. Ain't here; he see nothin. (The custom
seems to be, to preserve the caul.)

"Child born feet fore-most see 'um too." (See spirit) "Talk chillun? Put duh switch. Put you
'Bull pen.' Hab 'um (have them) a place can't see you hand before you. Can't turn round good
in there. Left you in there till morning. Give you fifty lash and send you to work. You ain't
done that task, man and woman lick!

"Couldn't manage my ma. Obersheer (overseer) want to lick ma, Mary One say, 'Going drownded
meself! I done my work! Fore I take a lick, rather drownded meself.'" Obersheer gone tell the
Doctor. Tie her long rope. Right to Sandy Island. Man hold the rope. Gone on. Jump in river.
So Doctor say, 'You too good labor for drown. Take dem (them) to Watsaw.' Me and she and man
what paddle the boat. Bring her to weave. Two womans fuh card; two spin. Ma wop 'em off. Sail
duh sheckel (shuttle) through there.

"Po-buckra come there and buy cloth from Ma. Buy three and four yard. Ma sell that, have to
weave day and night to make up that cloth to please obersheer. Come big day time. 'Little chillun,
whey (where) Mama?' Tell 'em Ma to the weaving house. Don't have money fuh pay. Bring hog and
such like as that to pay.

"You know Marse Allard age? Me and Marse Allard suck together. Me and Marse Allard and my brudder
Michael. My ma fadder mix wid (with) the Injun. Son Larry Aikens. Stay Charston (Charlestown).
Just as clean! (Meaning Larry, her Uncle, very bright skin. Mixed with Indian.) See 'em the
one time. Come from Charston bring Doctor two horse."

  Given by Aunt Margaret Bryant
  Age--(Born before Freedom)
  Murrells Inlet, S. C.

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  SAVILLA BURRELL, EX-SLAVE, 83 YEARS

"Our preacher, Beaty, told me that you wanted to see me today. I walked three miles dis mornin'
before the sun gits hot to dis house. Dis house is my grand daughter's house. Willie Caldwell,
her husband, work down to de cotton mill. Him make good money and take good care of her, bless
the Lord, I say."

"My Marster in slavery time was Captain Tom Still. He had big plantation down dere on Jackson
Crick. My Mistress name was Mary Ann, though she wasn't his fust wife--jest a second wife,
and a widow when she captivated him. You know widows is like dat anyhow, 'cause day done had
'sperience wid mens and wraps dem 'round their little finger and git dem under their thumb
'fore the mens knows what gwine on. Young gals have a poor chance against a young widow like
Miss Mary Ann was. Her had her troubles with Marse Tom after her git him, I tell you, but maybe
best not to tell dat right now anyways."

"Marse Tom had four chillun by his fust wife, dey was John, Sam, Henretta and I can't 'member
de name of the other one; least right now. Dey teached me to call chillun three years old,
young Marse and say Missie. Dey whip you if dey ever hear you say old Marse or old Missie.
Dat riled dem."

"My pappy name Sam. My mother name Mary. My pappy did not live on the same place as mother.
He was a slave of de Hamiltons, and he got a pass sometimes to come and be with her; not often.
Grandmammy name Ester and she belonged to our Marse Tom Still, too."

"Us lived in a log cabin wid a stick chimney. One time de sticks got afire and burnt a big
hole in de back of de chimney in cold winter time wid the wind blowing, and dat house was filled
wid fire-sparks, ashes, and smoke for weeks 'fore dey tore dat chimney down and built another
jest like the old one. De bed was nailed to de side of de walls. How many rooms? Jest one room."

"Never seen any money. How many slaves? So many you couldn't count dem. Dere was plenty to
eat sich as it was, but in the summer time before us git dere to eat de flies would be all
over de food and some was swimmin' in de gravy and milk pots. Marse laugh 'bout dat, and say,
it made us fat."

"Dey sell one of mother's chillun once, and when she take on and cry 'bout it, Marse say, 'stop
dat sniffin' dere if you don't want to git a whippin'.' She grieve and cry at night 'bout it.
Clothes? Yes Sir, us half naked all de time. Grown boys went 'round bare footed and in dey
shirt tail all de summer."

"Marse was a rich man. 'Fore Christmus dey would kill thirty hogs and after Christmus, thirty
more hogs. He had a big gin house and sheep, goats, cows, mules, hosses, turkeys, geese, and
a stallion; I members his name, Stockin'-Foot. Us little niggers was skeered to death of dat
stallion. Mothers used to say to chillun to quiet dem, 'Better hush, Stockin'-Foot will git
you and tramp you down.' Any child would git quiet at dat."

"Old Marse was de daddy of some mulatto chillun. De 'lations wid de mothers of dese chillun
is what give so much grief to Mistress. De neighbors would talk 'bout it and he would sell
all dem chillun away from dey mothers to a trader. My Mistress would cry 'bout dat.

"Our doctor was old Marse son-in-law, Dr. Martin. I seen him cup a man once. He was a good
doctor. He give slaves castor oil, bleed dem some times and make dem take pills."

"Us looked for the Yankees on dat place like us look now for de Savior and de host of angels
at de second comin'. Dey come one day in February. Dey took everything carryable off de plantation
and burnt de big house, stables, barns, gin house and dey left the slave houses."

"After de war I marry Osborne Burrell and live on de Tom Jordan place. I'se de mother of twelve
chillun. Jest three livin' now. I lives wid the Mills family three miles 'bove town. My son
Willie got killed at de DuPont Powder Plant at Hopewell, Virginia, during de World War. Dis
house you settin' in belongs to Charlie Caldwell. He marry my grand daughter, Willie B. She
is twenty-three years old."

"Young Marse Sam Still got killed in de Civil War. Old Marse live on. I went to see him in
his last days and I set by him and kept de flies off while dere. I see the lines of sorrow
had plowed on dat old face and I 'membered he'd been a captain on hoss back in dat war. It
come into my 'membrance de song of Moses; 'de Lord had triumphed glorily and de hoss and his
rider have been throwed into de sea'."

"You been good to listen. Dis is the fust time I can git to speak my mind like dis mornin'.
All de' people seem runnin' here and yonder, after dis and after dat. Dere is a nudder old
slave, I'se gwine to bring him down here Saturday and talk to you again."

  Project 1885-1
  FOLKLORE
  Spartanburg, S. C.
  Sept. 15, 1937
  Edited by:
  Elmer Turnage

  STORIES FROM EX-SLAVES

"I works on de shares and makes a fair living on a rented farm; don't own no land. I was born
in Newberry County, near de old Longshore store, about 12 miles northwest of Newberry Courthouse
on de Henry Burton place. My parents belonged to Henry Burton in slavery time. He was our marster.
I married Betty Burton, a nigger girl whose parents belonged to Marse Henry Burton, too.

"We had a good marster and mistress. Dey give us a good place to sleep and lots to eat. He
had a big four-acre garden where he raised lots of vegetables fer his slaves. He had plenty
meat, molasses and bread. We ground our corn and wheat and made our own feed.

"Marster wouldn't let anybody bother his slaves. He wouldn't 'low his overseers or de padrollers
to whip 'em. He never whipped one.

"We had no school and no church; but was made to go to de white folks church and set in de
gallery. When Freedom come, de niggers begin to git dere own church, and built small brush
huts called 'brush harbors'.

"We didn't do work on Saturday afternoons, but went hunting and fishing den, while de women
folks cleaned up around de place fer Sunday. De marster liked to hunt, and he hunted foxes
which was plenty around dere den. Now dey is all gone.

"We danced and had gigs. Some played de fiddle and some made whistles from canes, having different
lengths for different notes, and blowed 'em like mouth organs."

  Source: C. B. Burton (79), Newberry, S. C.
          Interviewer: G. L. Summer, Newberry, S. C. (9/10/37)

  Project #-1655
  Phoebe Faucette
  Hampton County

  Folklore

  GEORGE ANN BUTLER
  Ex-Slave 75 Years

West of the paved highway at Garnett one may reach, after several miles, the old Augusta Road
that follows along the Savannah River from Augusta to a landing point a little south of Garnett.
Miles from the busy highway, it passes, in quiet majesty, between fields and woods, made rich
by the river's overflow and heavy dews. Nature has done her best in producing beautiful evergreen
trees of immense size and much luxuriant shrubbery of many kinds. Live oaks, magnolias, yellow
slash pines, hollies, and many evergreen shrubs keep the woods even in winter, a fascinating
wilderness to hunters and nature lovers. On this road George Ann Butler lives, and has lived
for the seventy-five years of her life.

"I was born an' raised on de Greenwood place. It belonged to ole man Joe Bostick. He owned
all dese places 'long dese here road. He own de Bostick place back yonder; den he own de Pipe
Creek place next dat; den Oaklawn; den joinin' dat was Greenwood. De Colcock's Elmwood was
next. My Husband was birth right here on de Pipe Creek, an' been here ever since. He kin tell
you more'n I kin. I was George Anne Curry before I marry.

"I can't remember so much 'bout slavery time. I was crawlin' over de floor when slavery time--dey
tell me. But atter de war, I 'members. Couldn't find no corn seed! Couldn't find no cotton
seed! Couldn't find no salt! You knows it was hard times when dere wasn't no salt to season
de vegetables. Had to go down to de salt water an' get de water an' boil it for salt. Dat been
a long way from here. Must be fifty or sixty mile! An' dey couldn't go so fast in dem days.
Sufferin' been in de neighborhood atter de war pass!

"Cotton was de thing 'way back yonder. An' right 'long dis road dey'd haul it. Haul it to Cohen's
Bluff! Haul it to Matthews Bluff! Haul it to Parichucla! Don't haul it dis way no more! Send
de cotton to de railroad! But in dem days it was de ships dat carried it to Savannah. Cotton
seem to be play out now--dey plant so much.

"I hear 'em tell 'bout de war, an' havin' to drill an' step when dey say step, an' throw up
dey hands, when dey say throw up de hand. Everything had to be done jes' so! De war was sure
a terrible thing."

  Source: George Anne Butler, R. F. D. Garnett, S. C.

  Project #-1655
  Phoebe Faucette
  Hampton County

  ISAIAH [~HW: Solbert (?)~] BUTLER, EX-SLAVE 79 YEARS
  [~HW: See Ms. #~]

"Yes, dis is Isaiah Butler, piece of him. Ain't much left of him now. Yes, I knows all 'bout
dis heah country from way back. I was born and raised right on dis same place here; lived here
all my life 'sides from travellin' round a little space. Dere was a rice field not far from
dis house here, where I plowed up more posts that had been used as landmarks! Dis place was
de Bostick place, and it jined to de Thomson place, and de Thomson place to Edmund Martin's
place dat was turned over to Joe Lawton, his son-in-law. Bill Daniel had charge of de rice
field I was telling you 'bout. He was overseer, on de Daniel Blake place. Den dere was de Maner
place, de Trowell, de Kelly, and de Wallace places. Back in dem times dey cultivated rice.
Had mules to cultivate it! But cotton and corn was what dey planted most of all; 4,000 acres
I think dey tell me was on dis place. I know it supposed to be more than ten miles square.
Nobody know de landmarks 'cept me. When de Bostick boys came back from out west last year,
dey had to come to me to find out where dere place was. Dey didn't know nuttin' 'bout it. Dey
used to use twenty plow, and de hoe hands was over a hundred, I know.

"I 'member when de Yankees come through. I was no more'n a lad, nine or ten years old. Bostick
had a big gin-house, barn, stables, and such like. And when de soldiers come a goat was up
on de platform in front of de door to de loft of de barn. Dere were some steps leadin' up dere
and dat goat would walk up dem steps same as any body. De fuss thing de Yankees do, dey shoot
dat goat. Den day start and tear up eberyt'ing. All de white folks had refugeed up North, and
dey didn't do nuttin' to us niggers.

"Fore dat time I was jes' a little boy too young to do nuttin'. Jes' played aroun' in de street.
Ole Mr. Ben Bostick used to bring clothes an' shoes to us and see dat we was well cared for.
Dere was nineteen houses in de street for us colored folks. Dey wuz all left by de soldiers.
But in de year 1882 dere come a cyclone (some folks call it a tornado), and knocked down every
house; only left four standing. Pieces of clothes and t'ings were carried for four or five
miles from here. It left our house; but it took everyt'ing we had. It took de walls of de house,
jes' left de floorin', an' it wus turn 'round. Took everyt'ing! I'd jes' been married 'bout
a year, and you know how dat is. We jes' had to scuffle and scuffle 'roun' till de Lord bless us.

"Dere wuz plenty of deer, squirrel, possum, an' rabbits in dem times; no more dan dere is now,
but dere wuz no hinderance den as now. De deer come right up to my door now; dey come all 'roun'
dis house, and we cain't do nuttin'. De other day one wuz over dere by dat peachtree, an' not
long ago four of 'em come walkin' right through dis yard. I don't go fishin' no more. Folks
say de streams is all dried up. But I used to be a good fisherman, me an' me ole woman. She's
spryer'n me now. I used to allus protect her when we wuz young, an' now its her dat's acarin'
for me. We had our gardens in de ole days, too. Oh, yes'm. Little patches of collards, greens
an' t'ings, but now I ain't able to do nuttin', jes' hang 'roun' de place here.

"My father used to belong to General Butler, Dennis Butler was his name. My mother was a Maner,
but originally she wuz draw out of de Robert estate. Ole Ben Bostick fuss wife wuz a Robert.
Dey wuz sure wealthy folks. One of 'em went off to sail. Bill F. Robert wuz his name. He had
so much money dat he say dat he goin' to de end of de world. He come back an' he say he went
so close hell de heat draw de pitch from de vessel. But he lost his eyesight by it. Wa'n't
(it was not) long after he got back dat he went stone blind.

"My ole boss, preacher Joe Bostick wuz one of de best of men. He wuz hard of hearin' like I
is, an' a good ole man. But de ole lady, ole "Miss Jenny", she wuz very rough. She hired all
de overseers, and she do all. If'n anybody try to go to de old man wid anyt'ing, she'd talk
to 'em herself an' not let 'em see de old man.

"In slavery time de slaves wuz waked up every morning by de colored over-driver blowin' a horn.
Ole man Jake Chisolm wuz his name. Jes' at daybreak, he'd put his horn through a crack in de
upper part of de wall to his house an' blow it through dat crack. Den de under-driver would
go out an' round 'em up. When dey done all dey day-work, dey come home an' cook dey supper,
an' wash up. Den dey blow de horn for 'em to go to bed. Sometime dey have to out de fire an'
finish dey supper in de dark. De under-driver, he'd go out den and see who ain't go to bed.
He wouldn't say anyt'ing den; but next mornin' he'd report it to de overseer, an' dem as hadn't
gone to bed would be whipped.

"My mother used to tell me dat if any didn't do dey day's work, dey'd be put in de stocks or
de bill-bo. You know each wuz given a certain task dat had to be finish dat day. Dat what dey
call de day-work. When dey put 'em in de stocks dey tie 'em hand and foot to a stick. Dey could
lie down wid dat. I hear of colored folks doin' dat now to dare chillun when dey don't do.
Now de bill-bo wuz a stabe (stave) drove in de ground, an' dey tied dere hands and den dere
feet to dat, standin' up. Dey'd work on Saturday but dey wuz give Sundays. Rations wuz give
out on Mondays. Edmund Lawton went over to Louisiana to work on de Catherine Goride place,
but he come back, 'cause he say dey blow dey horn for work on Sunday same as any other day,
and he say he wa'n't goin' to work on no Sunday. Dey didn't have a jail in dem times. Dey'd
whip 'em, and dey'd sell 'em. Every slave know what, 'I'll put you in my pocket, sir!' mean.

"De slaves would walk when dey'd go anywhere. If'n dey buy a bunch of slaves in New Orleans,
dey'd walk by night and day. I 'member when one young girl come back from refugin' wid de white
folks, her feet were jes' ready to buss open, and dat wuz all. You couldn't travel unless de
boss give you a pass. De Ku Klan had "patrol" all about in de bushes by de side of de road
at night. And when dey caught you dey'd whip you almost to death! Dey'd horsewhip you. Dey
didn't run away nowhere 'cause dey knowed dey couldn't.

"If'n you wanted to send any news to anybody on another plantation, de overseer'd write de
message for you and send it by a boy to de overseer of de other plantation, and he'd read it
to de one you wrote to.

"When de war wuz over, ole man Jones cone over frum Georgia and sell t'ings to de colored folks.
He'd sell 'em everyt'ing. He took all de colored folks' money!

"I learned to read when I wuz goin' to school when I wuz about fifteen years old, but I learned
most I know after I wuz married, at night school, over on de Morrison place. De colored folks
had de school, but 'course Mr. Morrison was delighted to know dey wuz havin' it. As for church,
in de olden times, people used to, more or less, attend under de bush-arbor. In 1875 when I
jined de church, ole man John Butler wuz de preacher.

"Ghosts? I'se met plenty of um! When I wuz courtin' I met many a one--One got me in de water,
once. And another time when I wuz crossing a stream, I wuz on de butt end of de log, an' dey
wuz on de blossom end, an' we meet jes' as close as I is to you now. I say to him, same as
to anybody, 'I sure ain't goin' to turn back, and fall off dis log. Now de best t'ing for you
to do is to turn 'round and let me come atter (after) you. You jes' got to talk to 'em same
as to anybody. It don't pay to be 'fraid of 'em. So he wheel 'round. (Spirits can wheel, you
know.) And when he get to de end of de log, I say, 'Now you off and I off. You kin go on 'cross
now.' Dey sure is a t'ing, all right! Dey look jes' like anybody else, 'cept'n it's jes' cloudy
and misty like it goin' to pour down rain. But it don't do to be 'fraid of 'em. I ain't 'fraid
of nuttin', myself. I never see 'em no more. Guess I jes' sorta out-growed 'em. But dere sure
is sech a t'ing, all right! De white folks'd see 'em, too. I 'member hearin' ole Joe Bostick,
de preacher, say to a man, by de name of Tinlin, 'Did you hear dat hog barkin' last night?
Well, de spirit come right in de house. Come right up over de mantlepiece.' I wuz in de field
workin' same as I allus done, and I hear'd ole Joe horse a snortin'. Ole Joe didn't want nuttin'.
He jes' want to see what I wuz doin'.

"Abraham Lincoln done all he could for de colored folks. But dey cain't none of 'em do nuttin'
without de Lord." 800 Words

  SOLBERT BUTLER EX-SLAVE OF 82 YEARS

Miles from the highway old Solbert Butler lives alone under the shadow of the handsome winter
home of an aged northerner upon the same soil that he has seen pass from Southerner to Negro,
to Southerner, to Northerner. Though shrunken and bent with age he still enjoys talking.

"I lives in de Deer Country. A couple of months ago, I saw eight in a drove at one time, like
a drove of sheep, or sech like. You can't raise nuthin' 'round here. Dey'll eat up your garden.
And de wild turkey! And de partridge! But you can't shoot 'em without de Cassels give you a
license to do it. Now he comin' next month and dere'll be more shootin'! But he aint able to
hunt none hisself. He kin ride 'bout in de woods in de car. Dey are blessed people, though!

"Dis used to be de Bostick place. Old Massa Ben Bostick lived fourteen miles from here. Dere
was Ben Bostick, Iva Bostick, Joe Bostick, Mr. Luther, Eddie Bostick, an' Jennie Jo Bostick.
De place was divided up between 'em. O-oh! I couldn't number de plantations old Mr. Bostick
owned. I think he owned fifteen plantations! He was de millinery (millionaire)! Oh, de Bosticks,
O-oh!! De house dey live in, dey call um--what was it dey call um--de Paradise house. No one
go to dat house but only de rich.

"At Christmas dey'd go up dere. And oh, I couldn't number it! Oh, it was paradise. He was good
to 'em. An' he whip 'em good, too! Tie 'em to de fence post and whip 'em. But I didn't' have
anythin' of dat. I was a little boy. Jes' 'bout six year old when de war broke out. But I got
plenty of whippin's all right.

"Massa take me as a little boy as a pet. Took me right in de carriage! Had a little bed right
by his own an' take care of me. Every morning dey bring in dey tray, an' go back. My uncle
was a carriage man. Dey kept two fine horses jes' for de carriage. Massa'd come up to de Street
every Monday morning with big trays of rations. He'd feed his colored folk, den go on back."

(Another old ex-slave from the same plantation had said that on Mondays the week's rations
were given out.)

"Dey planted cotton, corn, peas, potatoes, rice--an' dey'd lick you! All de time, dey'd lick
you. After dey'd lick 'em until de blood come out, den dey'd rub de red pepper and salt on
'em. Oh, my God! Kin you say dem as done sech as dat aint gone to deir reward? My uncle was
so whip he went into de woods, an' live dere for months. Had to learn de independent life.
Mr. Aldridge was de overseer. Old Mr. Aldridge gone now. But dere can't be no rest for him.
Oh my God no! He do 'em so mean dat finally ole Massa hear 'bout it. And when he do hear 'bout
it, he discharged him. He had everything discharged--to de colored driver. Den he got Mr. Chisolm.
After Mr. Chisolm come in, everythin' jes' as sweet an' smooth as could be! Dere's a nice set
of people for you--de Chisolms. Two of 'em livin' now. One at Garnett, an' one at Luray, I believe.

"I refugeed wid Massa. Dey come together in Virginia. Dey surrendered in Virginia. Set de house
afire. And set all dey houses. Dey burned Massa's cotton. Over 200 bales! But if'n de colored
folks begged for some, dey let 'em have some. I stayed right wid Massa. He carried me everywhere
he went. Carried me all de way to Mill Haven, Georgia.

"After de war de colored folks jes' took an' plant de crop an' make de livin' wid de hoe. Didn't
have no mule, no ox, or thin' like dat. When ole Massa come back, he took de cotton, an' give
de colored folks de corn. De Yankees kill all de hog. Kill all de cow. Kill all de fowl. Left
you nothin' to eat. If de colored folk had any chicken, dey jes' had to take dat an' try to
raise 'em somethin' to eat.

"I'se a Methodist. I was converted under Elder Drayton--come from Georgia at St. Luke Methodist
Church on de Blake Plantation. De Blake Plantation right dere. It jines dis one. De ole Methodist
white folk's church where I was baptized been take down. It was called de Union Church. But
de cemetery still dere. It right up dere not a mile down de road. Dere was a good ole preacher
name of Rev. Winborn Asa Lawton. An' de camp meetin'! Oh, Lord, Lord! Dey had over a thousand
dere. Come from Orangeburg. Come from Aiken! An' come way from Cheraw! Come from Charleston,
Beaufort, and Savannah! De colored folks got a church now up here on what used to be de Pipe
Creek place of ole Ben Bostick where de white folks used to have a Baptist church. De colored
folks church call it Kenyon Church. Dat's de church dey white folks moved to Lawtonville, den
to Estill. But when de colored folks built, dey built de church to face de East. Built on de
same foundation; but face it east, facing a little road dat had sprung up and wind 'round dat
way right in close to de church. But de white folks church was face west, facing de Augusta
road. Dat big space twixt de road and de church was a grove.

"Ghosts? I used to 'em. I see 'em all de time. Good company! I live over dere by myself, an'
dey comes in my house all de time. Sometime I walk along at night an' I see 'em. An' when you
see 'em you see a sight. Dey play. Dey dance 'round an' 'round. Dey happy all right. But dey'll
devil you, too. When dey find out dat you scary, dey'll devil you. Dey don't do nothin' to
me. Only talk to me. I'll be in my house an' dey'll come talk to me. Or I'll be walkin' down
de road, an' meet 'em. Dey'll pass de time of day wid me, Like:

  'Hey, Solbert! How far you goin', Solbert?'

  'I'se jes' goin' down de road a little piece,' I'll say.

  'Uh-huh'.

"Or sometime dey'll say, 'Mornin', Solbert. How you feeling?'

  'I'se jes' so so'.

  'Uh-huh'.

"Dey all favors. Dey all looks alike. You remembers when dat car come down de road jes' now?
Well, I see a bunch of 'em right den! Dey get out de road for dat car to pass. Oh, you can't
see 'em. No matter how much I shows 'em to you--you can't see 'em. But me! Dey swell wid me.
I see 'em all de time. De big house up dere. It full of 'em. De white folks see 'em, too. Dat
is some of de white folks. I see de other day a white man dat has to work up here start toward
de house when de ghosts was comin' out thick. When I tell him you ought to see him turn an'
run. One of 'em push me over in de ditch one time. I say,

  'Now what you done dat for?'

  'Well, dat aint nothin''

  'Aint nothin'. But don't you do dat no more.'

"I talks to 'em jes' de same as if dey was somebody. Some folks outgrows 'em. But not me. You
have to be born to see 'em. If'n you be born wrapped in de caul, you kin see 'em. But if you
aint, you can't see 'em." Old Squire Kenner was my master and his wife, Lucy, my mistress.
My pa was Joseph Gilliam, who was a slave of John Gilliam, and my mamma was Lou Kenner, who
was a slave of Squire Kenner. I stayed with my mamma at Squire Kenner's and waited on my mistress,
Mrs. Lucy Kenner, who was the best white woman I know of--just like a mother to me, wish I
was with her now. I stayed there 'till my mistress died, was right by her bed.

"It sure was a good place to live. Dey didn't give us money for work but we had enough to eat
and place to sleep and a few clothes. Squire had a big farm he got from the Hancocks, some
of his kin. He didn't have overseers; he looked after his own farms. Master had a big garden
and give us lots from it to eat. We hunted 'possums, rabbits, squirrels, wild turkeys, on the
river. We lived right near Broad River.

"I remember de padderrolers; dey come to my pa's house and want to come in, but pa had an old
musket gun and tole them if dey come in dey wouldn't go out alive--and dey went away.

"After the day's work was done, the slaves would set down and talk, and on Saturday afternoons,
they would stay home, go fishing or wash up, and sometimes the chaps would go to de river and
watch the boats full of cotton go by. On Sundays we go to church. They made us go to Baskets
church, de white folks church, and set in the gallery. On Christmas Day we would get time off
and master would give us good things to eat. We never had any corn-shuckings and cotton pickings
there. All of the family and the slaves do that work on moon-shiney nights. We had some games
we played, like Molly Bright, Hiding Switches, Marbles. We played on Sunday, too, unless the
mistress calls us in and stops us.

"When a slave got sick we sent for the doctor. We never put much store in herb root tea and
such like.

"The Yankees went through Maybinton but didn't get over as far as us. Some say they stole cattle
and burned ginhouses.

"Squire Kenner was killed in the war, and when the war was over we stayed on with de mistress;
she was like a mamma. She had a son who was killed in the war, too. Another son lived there
and we worked for him after Mistress died, but he soon moved far away and sold out his plantation.
His name was Howsen Kenner.

"I married Walter Cain at Mr. Walter Spearman's house, a good white man, and the white folks
give us a good supper after the wedding. I had one child, 2 grandchildren, and one great-grand-child.
I joined the church before I married 'cause I wanted to do better, do right and live right,
and get religion. I think everybody ought to join the church and live right. That is the reason
the Lord blesses me in lots of ways today. We had good time in slavery--sometimes I wish I
was back there--would have somebody to take of you and help you. If my mistress was living
I would rather be back in slavery." Squire Kenner and his wife, mistress Lucy, was good to
me. My mistress was so good I wish I was living with her now, I sho wouldn't have such a hard
time getting something to eat. I am old and have rheumatism and can't get about good now.

"I live with some of my grand children, but they can't make so much for us. We manage to eat,
though. We rent a two-room house about two miles from Newberry Courthouse.

"I don't know nothing about 40 acres of land for the slaves after the war. We just stayed on
with the master 'til he died, for wages; then we hired out to other people for wages. I don't
know nothing 'bout slaves voting after the war. There was no slave up-risings then in our section.

"Ever since the war was over, the slaves have worked for wages on plantations or moved to town
and got little jobs here and there where they could. Some of the slaves would rent small farms
from land owners or work the farms on shares. None of the slaves in our section come from Virginia."

  Source: "Granny" My mother was a slave of George R. Tucker who lived on the Enoree
River. I can't remember slavery times nor the war; but I remember about
the end of the war when everybody was coming home.

"My mother was a weaver, going to the white folks' houses and weaving clothes for them for
small pay. Carding and spinning was done by all the white families at home.

"The farms had large gardens and raised most everything to eat. Large patches of turnips, cabbage
and green vegetables was the custom at that time." I ain't been married but once, but we had
15 chilluns. Dey is all done married and left us. I is gitting so I can't do much work any
more, 'specially plowing. I lives below Prosperity. I was born above dar, near Beaver Dam Creek
on de old Davenport place.

"My daddy was Alfred Caldwell and my mammy was Suella Caldwell. She was a Nelson. Dem and me
belonged to Marse Gillam Davenport. Marse Gillam sho was rapid. I saw him whip my mammy till
you couldn't put a hand on her shoulder and back widout touching a whelp. Marse Gillam killed
a man and dey put him in Jail in Newberry, but he died befo' de trial come off. Atter dat,
I was put in de hands of his son, Sam Davenport. Dis was atter freedom come. He was a purty
good man, but my mammy was always careful. At night she say, 'Come in chilluns, I got to fasten
de do' tight.' We lived in a little log house den. When we moved from dar we went to Dr. Welch's
place, jes' dis side of it.

"De niggers never had any churches till atter de war; den dey used brush arbors or some old
broke-down log house. We never had schools den, not till later. I never had a chance to go a-tall.

"I 'member de Ku Klux and how dey rid around in white sheets, killing all de niggers. De Red
Shirts never killed but dey sometimes whipped niggers. My daddy voted de Republican ticket
den, but I know'd two niggers dat was Democrats and rode wid de Red Shirts. Dey was old Zeb
and old Jeff Bozard.

"We had a big camp meeting sometimes at a log house dat was called 'Hannah's Church'. It was
named for a nigger man of slavery time. He bought de land for de church when freedom come and
give it to dem. Dis church is on de other side of Bush River, near Mr. Boulware's place.

"In old times we had plenty to eat dat we raised on de farm. We had gardens, too. We raised
hogs and made our own flour. We never worked on Saturday afternoons and Sundays. On Christmas
we got together and tried to have extra things to eat, and maybe a few drinks.

"In old times we had lots of corn-shuckings and log-rollings. De niggers all around would come
and help, den we would git a feast of lamb or pig that was cooked while we was working.

"Some old folks use to make medicines out of herbs. I 'member my ma would take fever grass
and boil it to tea and have us drink it to keep de fever away. She used branch elder twigs
and dogwood berries for chills. Another way to stop chills from coming was to dip a string
in turpentine, keep it tied around de waist and tie a knot in it every time you had a chill.

"Abraham Lincoln was a good man. Seems like all de niggers loved him lots. I don't know much
about Jefferson Davis. Booker Washington was a good man. I 'member he was once in Newberry
and I heard him preach in de old courthouse. (?)

"I joined de church when I was 12 years old. In dem days de old folks made chillun go to church
when dey was 12 years old, and join den. Dat was de reason I joined. I was a Methodist but
I joined de Baptist later, because, well, I saw dat was de right way."

  Source: Solomon Caldwell (73), Newberry, S. C. RFD
  Interviewer: G. L. Summer, Newberry, S. C. 12/7/37.

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon,
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  NELSON CAMERON
  EX-SLAVE 81 YEARS.

Nelson Cameron and his wife, Mary, together with a widowed daughter, Rose, and her six children,
live in a four-room frame house, two miles south of Woodward, S. C., about sixty yards east
of US highway #21. He cultivates about eighty acres of land, on shares of the crop, for Mr.
Brice, the land owner. He is a good, respectable, cheerful old darkey, and devoted to his wife
and grandchildren.

"Marse Wood, Ned Walker, a old Gaillard nigger says as how he was down here t'other day sellin'
chickens, where he got them chickens I's not here for to say, and say you wanna see me. I's
here befo' you and pleads guilty to de charge dat I'm old, can't work much any longer, and
is poor and needy.

"You sees dere's a window pane out of my britches seat and drainage holes in both my shoes,
to let de sweat out when I walks to Bethel Church on Sunday. Whut can you and Mr. Roosevelt
do for dis old Izrallite a passin' thru de wilderness on de way to de Promise Land? Lak to
have a little manna and quail, befo' I gits to de river Jordan.

"My old marster name Sam Brice. His wife, my mistress, tho' fair as de lily of de valley and
cheeks as pink as de rose of Sharon, is called 'Darkie.' Dat always seem a misfit to me. Lily
or Rose or Daisy would have suited her much more better, wid her laces, frills, flounces, and
ribbons. Her mighty good to de slaves. Take deir part 'ginst de marster sometime, when him
want to whup them. Sometime I sit on de door-steps and speculate in de moonlight whut de angels
am like and everytime, my mistress is de picture dat come into dis old gray head of mine. You
say you don't want po'try, you wants facts?

"Well, here de facts: My mammy name Clara. Don't forgit dat. I come back to her directly. My
young mistress was Miss Maggie. Her marry Marse Robert Clowney; they call him 'Red-head Bob.'
Him have jet red hair. Him was 'lected and went to de Legislature once. No go back; he say
dere too much ding dong do-nuttin' foolishness down dere for him to leave home and stay 'way
from de wife and chillun half de winter months.

"Marse Sam never have so pow'ful many slaves. Seem lak dere was more women and chillun than
men. In them days, pa tell me, a white man raise niggers just lak a man raise horses or cows.
Have a whole lot of mares and 'pendin' on other man to have de stallion. Fust thing you know
dere would be a whole lot of colts kickin' up deir heels on de place. Lakwise a white man start
out wid a few women folk slaves, soon him have a plantation full of little niggers runnin'
'round in deir shirt-tails and a kickin' up deir heels, whilst deir mammies was in de field
a hoeing and geeing at de plow handles, workin' lak a man. You ketch de point? Well I's one
of them little niggers. My pa name Vander. Him b'long to one of de big bugs, old Marse Gregg
Cameron. Marse Gregg, him 'low, always have more money and niggers than you could shake a stick
at, more land than you could walk over in a day, and more cuss words than you could find in
de dictionary. His bark was worser than his bite, tho'. Pa was de tan-yard man; he make leather
and make de shoes for de plantation. After freedom date, de way he make a livin' for mammy
and us chillun was by makin' boots and shoes and half solin' them for white folks at Blackstock,
S. C. Marse Sam Brice mighty glad for mammy to contact sich a man to be de pappy of her chillun.

"Us live in a log house wid a little porch in front and de mornin' glory vines use to climb
'bout it. When they bloom, de bees would come a hummin' 'round and suck de honey out de blue
bells on de vines. I 'members dat well 'nough, dat was a pleasant memory. Is I told you my
mammy name Clara? My brothers and sisters, who they? George dead, Calvin dead, Hattie (name
for pa's young mistress) dead, Samson, who got his ear scald off in a pot of hot water, is
dead, too. I's existing still. I did mighty little work in slavery times. 'Members not much
'bout de Yankees.

"Freedom come, pa come straight as a martin to his gourd, to mammy and us pickaninnies. They
send us to school at Blackstock and us walk fourteen miles, and back, every day to school.
At school I meets Mary Stroud, a gal comin' from de Gaillard quarter. Her eyes was lak twin
stars. Her hair lak a swarm of bees. All my studyin' books was changed to studyin' how to git
dat swarm of bees in a hive by myself. One day I walk home from school with her and git old
Uncle Tom Walker to marry us, for de forty cents I saved up. Us happy ever since. Nex' year
I work for Ben Calvin, a colored man on de Cockerell place, jinin' de Gaillard place. Us did
dat to be near her pappy, Uncle Morris Stroud.

"All thru them 'Carpet Bag' days my pappy stuck to de white folks, and went 'long wid de Ku
Kluxes. His young mistress, Miss Harriet Cameron, marry de Grand Titan of all de Holy invisible
Roman Empire. Him name was Col. Leroy McAfee. Pappy tell me all 'bout it. Marse Col. McAfee
come down from North Ca'lina, and see Marse Feaster Cameron at old Marse Gregg Cameron's home
and want Marse Feaster to take charge down in dis State. While on dat visit him fall in love
wid Marse Feas's sister, Harriet, and marry her. You say Marse Tom Dixon dedicate a book to
her, de Clansman? Well, well, well! To think of dat. Wish my pappy could a knowed dat, de Sundays
he'd take dat long walk to Concord Church to put flowers on her grave. They all lie dere in
dat graveyard, Old Marse Gregg, Marse Leroy, Miss Harriet, and Marse Feas. De day they bury
Marse Feas de whole county was dere and both men and women sob when de red earth rumbled on
his coffin top. Pappy had me by de hand and cried lak a baby, wid de rest of them, dat sad day.

"Does you 'member de time in 1884, when my pappy made you a pair of boots for $10.00 and when
you pay him, him knock off one dollar and you pay him nine dollars? You does? Well dat is fine,
for I sure need dat dollar dis very day.

"Does I 'member de day old Marse Gregg die? 'Course I does. It happen right here in Winnsboro.
Him come down to 'tend John Robinson's Circus. Him lak Scotch liquor; de tar smell, de taste,
and de 'fect, take him back to Scotland where him generate from. Them was bar-room days in
Winnsboro. De two hotels had bar-rooms, besides de other nine in town. Marse Gregg had just
finished his drink of Scotch. De parade of de circus was passing de hotel where he was, and
de steam piano come by a tootin'. Marse Gregg jump up to go to de street to see it. When it
pass, him say: 'It's a damn humbug' and drop dead."

  Project #1855
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  THOMAS CAMPBELL
  EX-SLAVE 82 YEARS OLD.

"Good mornin' Marster Wood! Marster Donan McCants and Marster Wardlaw McCants both been tellin'
me dat how you wants to see me but I's been so poorly and down at de heels, in my way of feelin',
dat I just ain't of a mind or disposition to walk up dere to de town clock, where they say
you want me to come. Take dis bench seat under de honey suckle vine. It shade you from de sun.
It sho' is hot! I's surprise dat you take de walk down here to see a onery old man lak me.

"Yes sir, I was born, 'cordin' to de writin' in de Book, de 15th day of March, 1855, in de
Horeb section of Fairfield District, a slave of old Marster John Kennedy. How it was, I don't
know. Things is a little mixed in my mind. Fust thing I 'members, and dreams 'bout sometimes
yet, is bein' in Charleston, standin' on de battery, seein' a big ocean of water, wid ships
and their white sails all 'bout, de waves leapin' and gleamin' 'bout de flanks of de ships
in de bright sunshine, thousands of white birds flyin' 'round and sometimes lighting on de
water. My mammy, her name Chanie, was a holdin' my hand and her other hand was on de handle
of a baby carriage and in dat carriage was one of de Logan chillun. Whether us b'long to de
Logans or whether us was just hired out to them I's unable to 'member dat. De slaves called
him Marster Tom. Us come back to Fairfield in my fust childhood, to de Kennedy's.

"Marster John Kennedy raise more niggers than he have use for; sometime he sell them, sometime
he hire them out. Him sell mammy and me to Marster James B. McCants and I been in de McCants
family ever since, bless God!

"Marse James was a great lawyer in his day. I was his house boy and office boy. When I get
older I take on, besides de blackin' of his boots and shoes and sweepin' out de office, de
position of carriage driver and sweepin' out de church. Marster James was very 'ligious. Who
my pa was? Dat has never been revealed to me. Thank God! I never had one, if they was lak I
see nigger chillun have today. My white folks was all de parents I had and me wid a skin as
black as ink. My belly was always full of what they had and I never suffer for clothes on my
back or shoes on my feets.

"Does I 'members de Yankees? Yes sir, I 'member when they come. It was cold weather, February,
now dat I think of it. Oh, de sights of them days. They camp all 'round up at Mt. Zion College
and stable their hosses in one of de rooms. They gallop here and yonder and burn de 'Piscopal
Church on Sunday mornin'. A holy war they called it, but they and Wheeler's men was a holy
terror to dis part of de world, as naked and hungry as they left it. I marry Savannah Parnell
and of all our chillun, dere is just one left, a daughter, Izetta. Her in Tampa, Florida.

"Does I 'members anything 'bout de Ku Klux? No sir, nothin'. I was always wid de white folks
side of politics. They wasn't concerned 'bout me. Marster James have no patience for dat kind
of business anyhow. Him was a lawyer and believed in lettin' de law rule in de daylight and
would have nothin' to do wid work dat have to have de cover of night and darkness.

"Does I 'member 'bout de red shirts? Sure I does. De marster never wore one. Him get me a red
shirt and I wore it in Hampton days. What I recollect 'bout them times? If you got time to
listen, I 'spect I can make anybody laugh 'bout what happen right in dis town in red shirt
days. You say you glad to listen? Well, here goes. One time in '76. de democrats have a big
meetin' in de court house in April. Much talk last all day. What they say or do up dere nobody
know. Paper come out next week callin' de radicals to meet in de court house fust Monday in
May. Marster Glenn McCants, a lawyer, was one of old marster's sons. He tell me all 'bout it.

"De day of de radical republican meetin' in de court house, Marster Ed Ailen had a drug store,
so him and Marster Ozmond Buchanan fix up four quart bottles of de finest kind of liquor, wid
croton-oil in every bottle. Just befo' de meetin' was called to order, Marster Ed pass out
dat liquor to de ring leader, tellin' him to take it in de court house and when they want to
'suade a nigger their way, take him in de side jury rooms and 'suade him wid a drink of fine
liquor. When de meetin' got under way, de chairman 'pointed a doorkeeper to let nobody in and
nobody out 'til de meetin' was over, widout de chairman say so.

"They say things went along smooth for a while but directly dat croton-oil make a demand for
'tention. Dere was a wild rush for de door. De doorkeeper say 'Stand back, you have to 'dress
de chairman to git permission to git out'. Chairman rap his gavel and say, 'What's de matter
over dere? Take your seats! Parliment law 'quire you to 'dress de chair to git permission to
leave de hall'. One old nigger, Andy Stewart, a ring leader shouted: 'To hell wid Parliment
law, I's got to git out of here.' Still de doorkeeper stood firm and faithful, as de boy on
de burnin' deck, as Marster Glenn lak to tell it. One bright mulatto nigger, Jim Mobley, got
out de tangle by movin' to take a recess for ten minutes, but befo' de motion could be carried
out de croton-oil had done its work. Half de convention have to put on clean clothes and de
court house steps have to be cleaned befo' they could walk up them again. You ask any old citizen
'bout it. Him will 'member it. Ask old Doctor Buchanan. His brother, de judge, was de one dat
help Marster Ed Aiken to fix de croton-oil and whiskey.

"Well, dat seem to make you laugh and well it might, 'cause dat day been now long ago. Sixty-one
years you say? How time gits along. Well, sixty-one years ago everybody laugh all day in Winnsboro,
but Marster Ed never crack a smile, when them niggers run to his drug store and ask him for
somethin' to ease their belly ache." I just can remember when I was sold. Me en Becky en George.
Just can remember dat, but I know who bought me. First belong to de old Bill Greggs en dat
whe' Miss Earlie Hatchel bought me from. Never did know whe' Becky en George went. Yes, mam,
de Bill Greggs had a heap of slaves cause dey had my grandmammy en my granddaddy en dey had
a heap of chillun. My mammy, she belong to de Greggs too. She been Mr. Gregg's cook en I de
one name after her. I remembers she didn' talk much to we chillun. Mostly, she did sing bout
all de time. Most of de old people sing bout;

  'O Heaven, sweet Heaven,
  When shall I see?
  If you get dere fore me,
  You tell my Lord I on de way.
  O shall I get dere?
  If you get dere fore I do,
  You tell My Lord I on de way.
  O Heaven, sweet Heaven,
  When shall I see?
  O when shall I get dere?'

"Oh, dat be a old song what my grandmammy used to sing way back dere."

"I don' know exactly how old I is cause de peoples used to wouldn' tell dey chillun how old
dey was fore dey was grown. I just ain' able to say bout my right age, but I know my sister
was older den me en she de one keep count us chillun age. She told me I be bout 84 or 85 years
old, so my sister tell me. She done gone en left me en I try to keep count, but I don' know.
Dere been bout 14 head of we chillun en dey all gone but me. I de last one. I can tell you
dis much, I was just a little small girl when Miss Earlie Hatchel bought me en she wouldn'
let me hold de baby cause she was 'fraid I would drop it. I just set dere on de floor en set
de baby 'tween my legs, but my Lord, Miss Hatchel been so good to me dat I stay on dere wid
her 8 years after freedom come. Miss Hatchel tell me I better stay on dere whe' I can get flour
bread to eat. Yes, mam, never got a whippin in all my life. Miss Hatchel, she shake me by de
shoulders once or twice, but never didn' whip me in all my life dat I knows of. Dat de reason,
when my parents come after me, I hide under de bed. My mammy, she went in de name of Hatchel
en all her chillun went in de name of Hatchel right down dere in de Effingham section."

"No, honey, don' nobody be here wid me. Stays right here by myself. Digs in de garden in de
day en comes in de house at night. Yes, mam, I thought dis house been belong to me, but dey
tell me dis here place be city property. Rich man up dere in Florence learn bout I was worth
over $1500.00 en he tell me dat I ought to buy a house dat I was gettin old. Say he had a nice
place he want to sell me. I been learned dat what white folks tell me, I must settle down on
it en I give him de money en tell him give me de place he say he had to sell me. I been trust
white folks en he take my money en settle me down here on city property. He say, 'Mom Sylvia,
you stay here long as you live cause you ain' gwine be here much longer.' I promise my God
right den not to save no more money, child. People back dere didn' spend money like dey do
dese days en dat how-come I had dat money. Dey would just spend money once a year in dat day
en time. Yes, mam, I pay dat man over $900.00. Been payin on it long time en got it all paid
but $187.00 en city find out what dat man had done. City tell me just stay on right here, but
don' pay no more money out. Dey give me dat garden en tell me what I make I can have. Courthouse
man tell me dat I ought to drop my thanks to de Heavenly Father dat I is free. If de town picks
up any sick person, dey bring dem here en tell me do de best I can for dem. Tell me to keep
good order so de people won' be shame to come en see bout me. Got two houses dere join together.
Dere be four rooms in dis front one en three in de other house. Woman go up north en leave
her things here en tell me if she ain' come back, I could have dem en she ain' come back yet.
Been gone two years."

"Yes, mam, I been married twice. First husband die en den another sick man come along en ax
de city for me. I work on him en make teas for him, but he die in bout two years. I beg de
town to let me go out to de poor farm en stay, but dey say I done pay too much to move. Tell
me stay on here en keep de house up de best way I can.

"No'um, I ain' able to do no kind of work much. No more den choppin my garden. Can' hardly
see nothin on a sunny day. I raise my own seed all right cause sometimes I can' see en find
myself is cut up things en dat make me has to plant over another time. City tell me do like
I was raise en so I been choppin here bout 20 years."

"Oh, now go way from here. My son born in de year of de earthquake en if he had lived, I would
been bless wid plenty grandchillun dese days. Yes, mam, I remember all bout de shake. Dey tell
me one man, Mr. Turner, give way his dog two or three days fore de earthquake come en dat dog
get loose en come back de night of de shake. Come back wid chain tied round his neck en Mr.
Turner been scared most to death, so dey tell me. He say, 'Oh, Mr. Devil, don' put de chain
on me, I'll go wid you.' Dat was his dog come back en he thought it was de devil come dere
to put de chain on him. Yes, mam, dere was such a cuttin up every which a way cause de people
thought it was de Jedgment comin. I went a runnin dere to de white folks house en such a prayin
en a hollerin, I ain' never see de like fore den en ain' see it since den neither. Dere was
stirrin everywhe' dat night en de water in de well was just a slashin. I tried to pray like
de rest of de people. Some say dey was ready to get on de old ship of Zion. I cut loose from
de white folks en went in de woods to pray en see a big snake en I ain' been back since. I
know dat ain' been nothin but a omen en I quit off cuttin up. I know it ain' been no need in
me gwine on like dat cause I ain' never do no harms dat I knows of."

"Yes, mam, white folks had to whip some of dey niggers in slavery time, dey be so mean. Hear
tell bout some of dem would run away en go in de woods en perish to death dere fore dey would
come out en take a whippin. Some was mean cause dey tell stories on one another en been swear
to it. My mammy tell me don' never tell nothin but de truth en I won' get no whippin. I been
raise up wid de white folks en I tell de truth, I can' hardly stand no colored people."

"Oh, honey, dere won' no such thing as cotton mill, train, sawmill or nothin like dat in my
day. People had to set dere at night en pick de seed out de cotton wid dey own hands. Didn'
hear tell bout no telephone nowhe' in dem days en people never live no closer den three en
four miles apart neither. Got old Massa horn right in dat room dere now dat he could talk on
to people dat be 16 miles from whe' he was. Come in here, child, en I'll let you see it. See,
dis old horn been made out of silver money. You talks in dat little end en what you say runs
out dat big end. Man ax me didn' I want to sell it en I tell him I ain' got no mind to get
rid of it cause it been belong to old Massa. Den if I get sick, I call on it en somebody come.
Wouldn' take nothin for it, honey."

"Times was sho better long time ago den dey be now. I know it. Yes, mam,
I here frettin myself to death after dem dat gone. Colored people never
had no debt to pay in slavery time. Never hear tell bout no colored
people been put in jail fore freedom. Had more to eat en more to wear
den en had good clothes all de time cause white folks furnish
everything, everything. Dat is, had plenty to eat such as we had. Had
plenty peas en rice en hog meat en rabbit en' fish en such as dat.
Colored people sho fare better in slavery time be dat de white folks had
to look out for dem. Had dey extra crop what dey had time off to work
every Saturday. White folks tell dem what dey made, dey could have.
Peoples would have found we colored people rich wid de money we made on
de extra crop, if de slaves hadn' never been set free. Us had big rolls
of money en den when de Yankees come en change de money, dat what made
us poor. It let de white people down en let us down too. Left us all to
bout starve to death. Been force to go to de fish pond en de huckleberry
patch. Land went down to $1.00 a acre. White people let us clear up new
land en make us own money dat way. We bury it in de ground en dat
how-come I had money. I dig mine up one day en had over $1500.00 dat I
been save. Heap of peoples money down dere yet en dey don' know whe' to
find it."
  Florence, S. C.

"I lives here by myself cause my husband been dead three years. Moved here fore my chillun
went to de war. I go to work en buy dis here home en get whe' I can' pay tax en people tell
me not to move. Say, rent me bed en catch me a dollar, if it ain' a sin to rent your bed for
a dollar. One of de big officers of de town tell me dat last week en he die next day. Government
take my house en when dey carry sick peoples from de jail, dey bring em here fore dey die.
It ain' but one night journey. Ain' gwine let dem be live enough to run away. Ain' got no kin
to leave de house to en dey tell me stay on here. Dey say I work so hard to get dis house dat
dey ain' gwine make me leave here."

(Aunt Sylvia has a sign in her front yard. It seems she took the frame of a large picture and
inserted a piece of pasteboard into it. She explained that this sign is a warning to evil doers
not to molest her. She says that they must not come past this sign. The words on the sign are
somewhat illegibly written. The interviewers were able to make out these words: "This is a
house of the Lord. Don't go pass. This is a house of the Lord...." Sign is dated March 1, 1937).

"I don' know how old I is, but I remembers I was 8 years old when freedom come. I born down
dere in de Effingham section on Mr. Gregg plantation. My half-sister say I must always remember
de Christmas day cause dat de day I was born. After dat, I didn' never live wid my parents
any more, but I went back to see dem every two weeks. Got a note en go on a Sunday evenin en
come back to Miss Hatchel on Monday. Miss Hatchel want a nurse en dat how-come she buy me.
I remembers Miss Hatchel puttin de baby in my lap en tell me don' drop him. Didn' have to do
no work much in dem days, but dey didn' allow me to play none neither. When de baby sleep,
I sweep de yard en work de garden en pick seed out de cotton to spin. Nursed little while for
Miss Hatchel en den get free."

"I see em sell plenty colored peoples away in dem days cause dat de way white folks made heap
of dey money. Coase dey ain' never tell us how much dey sell em for. Just stand em up on a
block bout three feet high en a speculator bid em off just like dey was horses. Dem what was
bid off didn' never say nothin neither. Don' know who bought my brothers, George en Earl. (She
cried after this statement). I see em sell some slaves twice fore I was sold en I see de slaves
when dey be travelin like hogs to Darlington. Some of dem be women folks lookin like dey gwine
to get down dey so heavy."

"We fare good in dat day en time. Everybody round dere fare good. My Massa always was good
to his slaves cause all de colored people say he was good man to us. Dey never whip me in all
my life. Tell me if I don' know how to do anything to tell dem en dey show me how. I remembers
Miss Hatchel caught en shook me one time en when I tell her husband, he tell her to keep his
hands off his little Nigger. Dey all was good to me. When I start home to see my mamma, dey
cry after me till I come back. Many a time my Missus go work in de field en let me mind de
chillun."

"We live in de quarter bout ½ mile from de white folks house in a one room pole house what
was daubed wid dirt. Dere was bout 20 other colored people house dere in de quarter dat was
close together en far apart too. De ground been us floor en us fireplace been down on de ground.
Take sticks en make chimney cause dere won' no bricks en won' no saw mills to make lumber when
I come along. Oh, my white folks live in a pole house daubed wid dirt too. Us just had some
kind of home-made bedstead wid pine straw bed what to sleep on in dem days. Sew croaker sack
together en stuff em wid pine straw. Dat how dey make dey mattress. Didn' get much clothes
to wear in dat day en time neither. Man never wear no breeches in de summer. Go in his shirt
tail dat come down to de knees en a 'oman been glad enough to get one piece homespun frock
what was made wid dey hand. Make petticoat out of old dress en patch en patch till couldn'
tell which place weave. Always put wash out on a Saturday night en dry it en put it back on
Sunday. Den get oak leaves en make a hat what to wear to church. We didn' never have but one
pair of shoes a year en dey was dese here brogans wid thick soles en brass toes. Had shop dere
on de plantation whe' white man made all de shoes en plows. Dey would save all de cowhide en
soak it in salt two or three weeks to get de hair off it en dey have big trough hewed out whe'
dey clean it after dey get de hair off it. After dat, it was turn to de man at de shop."

"I remembers when night come on en we go back to de quarter, we cook bread in de ashes en pick
seed from de cotton en my mamma set dere en sew heap of de time. Den I see em when dey have
dem hay pullings. Dey tote torch to gather de hay by en after dey pull two or three stacks
of hay, dey have a big supper en dance in de road en beat sticks en blow cane. Had to strike
fire on cotton wid two rocks cause dey didn' have no match in dem days."

"I tellin you my Missus sho was good to me in dat day en time. She been so good to me dat I
stay dere wid her 20 year after I got free. Stay dere till I marry de old man Isenia Cannon.
You see my old Massa got killed in de war. She tell me I better stay whe' I can get flour bread
to eat cause she make her own flour en bake plenty biscuit in de oven. Den she kill hogs en
a cow every Christmas en give us all de egg-nog en liquor we want dat day. Dig hole in de ground
en roast cow over log fire. When I get hard up for meat en couldn' get nothin else, I catch
rabbits en birds. Make a death trap wid a lid en bait it wid cabbage en corn en catch em dat
way. Den another time, I dig deep hole in de ground en dob it wid clay en fill it up wid water.
Rabbits hunt water in de night en fall in dere en drown. I used to set traps heap of times
to keep de rabbits from eatin up de people gardens. Folks eat all kind of things durin de war.
Eat honeysuckle off de low sweet bush after de flower falls off en pine mass dat dey get out
de burr en sour weeds. Wouldn' nobody eat dem things dese days. Coase dey let de slaves have
three acres of land to a family to plant for dey garden. Work dem in moonlight nights en on
a Saturday evenin."

"Oh, yes, dey have white overseers den. I hear some people say dey was good people. At night
de overseer would walk out to see could he catch any of us walkin widout a note en to dis day,
I don' want to go nowhe' widout a paper. It just like dis, de overseer didn' have to be right
behind you to see dat you work in dem days. Dey have all de fields name en de overseer just
had to call on de horn en tell you what field to go work in dat day. Den he come along on a
Saturday evenin to see what you done. If you ain' do what he say do, he put de Nigger dog on
you en he run you all night till he find you. No matter whe' you hide, he find you en hold
you till de overseer get dere. Bite you up if dey get reach of you. When de overseer come,
he carry you to de stables en whip you. Dey dat ain' never got no whipping, you can' do nothin
wid dem dese days."

"I got Miss Hatchel horn bout here now dat been through nearly 100 head of people. If you talk
on it, dere de 100 head of automobiles to see what it is. I sold old Massa's sword last week
for ten cents, but I ain' gwine do away wid his old horn. (4 ft. long, 15 in. cross big end
1 in. from top end. Mouth piece is gone. Catch about 15 in. from top). Can talk to anybody
15 to 16 miles away en dat how-come I don' want to sell it cause if anything happen, I can
call people to come. Dis horn ain' no tin, it silver. It de old time phone. Got old Massa maul
too en dis here Grandpa oxen bit dat was made at home."

"De white folks didn' never help none of we black people to read en write no time. Dey learn
de yellow chillun, but if dey catch we black chillun wid a book, dey nearly bout kill us. Dey
was sho better to dem yellow chillun den de black chillun dat be on de plantation. Northern
women come dere after de war, but dey didn' let em teach nobody nothin."

"I go to church wid my white folks, but dey never have no church like dey have dese days. De
bush was dey shelter en when it rain, dey meet round from one house to another. Ride to church
in de ox cart cause I had to carry de baby everywhe' I go. White folks didn' have no horse
den. De peoples sho been blessed wid more religion in dem days den dese days. Didn' never have
to lock up nothin den en if you tell a story, you get a whippin. Now de peoples tell me to
tell a story. I been cleanin up a lady porch en she tell me to tell anybody what come dere
dat she ain' home. A lady come en ax fer her en I tell her she say anybody come here, tell
em I ain' home. If you don' believe she here, look in de bedroom. Miss Willcox come out dere
en beat me in de back. I tell her don' read de Bible en tell me to tell a story. I ain' gwine
tell no story cause my white folks learnt me not to do dat. I knows people was better in dem
times den dey is now. Dey teach you how you ought to treat your neighbor en never hear no bad
stories nowhe'. Massa en Missus taught me to say a prayer dat go like dis:

  "De angels in Heaven love us,
  Bless mamma en bless papa,
  Bless our Missus,
  Bless de man dat feedin us,
  For Christ sake."

"De peoples use herb medicines for dey cures in dem days dat dey get out de woods. I make a
herb medicine dat good for anything out de roots of three herbs mix together. Couldn' tell
you how I make it cause dat would ruin me. Town people try to buy de remedy from me, but Dr.
McLeod tell me not to sell it. Dey offer me $1500.00 for it, but I never take it."

"You want my mind, my heart, de truth en I gwine tell you it just like I see it. Since de colored
peoples got de law, dey get in all kind of devilment. Dat how-come if I had to go back, I would
go back to slavery en stay wid my white folks."

  Source: Sylvia Cannon, ex-slave, age 85, Florence. S. C.

  Personal interview by H. Grady Davis and Mrs.
  Lucile Young, and written up in question and
  answer form. Rewritten in story form by Annie Ruth
  Davis.

  FUNERAL SONG

  Star in de east en star in de west,
  I wish de star was in my breast.
  Mother is home, sweet home,
  Mother is home, sweet home,
  Want to join de angel here.
  What a blessed home, sweet home,
  What a blessed home, sweet home,
  Want to join de angel here.

(You can sing bout father, brother, sister en all.)

  Sylvia Cannon,

  Ex-Slave, age 85,
  May 21, 1937,
  Florence, S. C.

  FUNERAL SONG

  Come ye dat love de Lord,
  En let your joys be known.
  Hark from de tomb,
  En hear my tender voice.
  By de grace of God I'll meet you
  On Canaan Happy Shore.
  Oh, mother, where will I meet you on Canaan Happy Shore?

(Shaking hands, marching around grave. White en Colored marched from
church to graveyard. Old people in de ox cart en young people walking.
Didn' have coffins like dey do now. Build de coffin en black it wid
smut. Blacksmith make de nails.
      'Sixty one the war begun;
      Sixty four the war was o'er."

"Rev. Zacharias Duncan wuz the man. He the one built Heaven Gate church. Brother Henry Smith
and Brother David Kidd and old man Jackson Heywood wuz the old ones built it. Some more been
there. Can't think of them. Old man Jim Beaty wuz one. Can't remember no more. He wuz Allston
man. (That means he was a slave owned by the Allstons) Uncle Dave Kidd, he owned a tract of
land in the Savannah.

"Brought us up in Sabbus (Sabbath) school. Sunrise prayer-meeting. Ten o'clock Sunday school.
Leven o'clock the service. Three o'clock service again. Eight at night--service again. Raise
us taughen (taught) in the church. Steal off Slavery time in they own house and have class
meeting. Driver come find'em, whip'em. Th' patrolls come riding down th' road. Four plait whip.
Two big black dog. White pat-roller. Ketch without pass, they whip me. Crawling. (I was crawling).
But I walk then and walk every since! Bo-cart. Dat's what they call it--'Bo-cart'. (Crude home
made baby walker.) Bout seventy seven years since I start. Remember nother thing going on in
them time. Mausser gin (give) the women a task. Didn't done it. Next day didn't done it. Saturday
come, task time out! Driver! I tell yuh th' truth, you could hear those people, 'Murder! Murder!'

"Judge Kershaw was a fine man. His boy William--I and William born the same day.

"We never has met th' bed yet, without family prayer--and never get up without it. Didn't low
them with a book in they hand. The Driver learn you at night if he like you. Try to out-wage
(educate) you at night. Didn't have any school.

"Mother's father Indian. Brighter than, who? Who round here bright as my Grand-father? Hannah!
Hair was long. Wouldn't stay home. Lives in th' swamp. Wouldn't stay out. Grandmother wuz African.
She had a little bowl make out of clay."

  Uncle Albert Carolina, age 87 (colored)
  Murrells Inlet, S. C.
  March 8th, 1937.

(A description followed of how his grand-parents built a kiln of clay pots and baked them.)

  Project #-1655
  Phoebe Faucette
  Hampton County

  SILVIA CHISOLM
  Ex-Slave 88 Years Old

"Aunt Silvie", sitting out in the sunshine in the yard of a small negro cabin, on a warm day
in January, seemed very old and feeble. Her answers to questions were rather short and she
appeared to be preoccupied.

"I been fifteen year old when de Yankee come--fifteen de sixth of June. I saw 'em burn down
me Massa's home, an' everythin'. I 'members dat. Ole man Joe Bostick was me Massa. An' I knows
de Missus an' de Massa used to work us. Had de overseer to drive us! Work us till de Yankees
come! When Yankee come dey had to run! Dat how de buildin' burn! Atter dey didn't find no one
in it, dey burn! De Marshall house had a poor white woman in it! Dat why it didn't burn! My
Massa's Pineland place at Garnett was burn, too. Dey never did build dis un (one) back. Atter
dey come back, dey build deir house at de Pineland place.

"I wus mindin' de overseer's chillun. Mr. Beestinger was his name! An' his wife, Miss Carrie!
I been eight year old when dey took me. Took me from me mother an' father here on de Pipe Creek
place down to Black Swamp. Went down forty-two mile to de overseer! I never see my mother or
my father anymore. Not 'til atter freedom! An' when I come back den I been married. But when
I move back here, I stay right on dis Pipe Creek place from den on. I been right here all de time.

"Atter I work for Mr. Beestinger, I wait on Mr. Blunt. You know Mr. Blunt, ain't you? His place
out dere now.

"Mr. Bostick was a good ole man. He been deaf. His chillun tend to his business--his sons.
He was a preacher. His father was ole man Ben Bostick. De Pipe Creek Church was ole Missus
Bostick's Mammy's church. When de big church burn down by de Yankees, dey give de place to
de colored folks. Stephen Drayton was de first pastor de colored folks had. Dey named de church,
Canaan Baptist Church. Start from a bush arbor. De white folks church was paint white, inside
an' out. It was ceiled inside. Dis church didn't have no gallery for de colored folks. Didn't
make no graveyard at Pipe Creek! Bury at Black Swamp! An' at Lawtonville! De people leave dat
church an' go to Lawtonville to worship. Dey been worshipping at Lawtonville ever since before
I could wake up to know. De Pipe Creek Church jes' stood dere, wid no service in it, 'til de
Yankee burn it. De church at Lawtonville been a fine church. Didn't burn it! Use it for a hospital
durin' de war!

"I'se 88 year old now an' can't remember so much. An' I'se blind! Blind in both eye!"

  Source: Silvia Chisolm, R. F. D. Estill, S. C.

  Project #1655
  Stiles M. Scruggs
  Columbia, S. C.

  AN EX-SLAVE WHO CLIMBED UP
  WITH WHITE FOLKS.

Tom Chisolm, a sixty-two year old bricklayer, 11 Railroad Street, Columbia, S. C., is a son
of Caesar Chisolm, who represented Colleton County in the South Carolina House of Representatives
for ten years. Caesar was one of the few leading Negroes, who voted and spoke for the Democratic
Party and was friendly to the leaders of white supremacy until he died in 1897. Tom relates
the following story:

"My daddy was born in slavery and he was always treated good by his master, de late Jimeson
Chisolm, of Colleton County. He could read and figure up 'most anything, when he was set free,
and he had notions of his own, too. For instance, he marry my mammy. She die soon after I was
born, and daddy say to me: 'Son, your mammy is gone, but you need not fear dat any other woman
will ever boss you. I's through with wives.' And he never marry again.

"I come to Columbia with him, when he serve in de Legislature. When he tell de niggers and
white folks, back in Colleton, dat he was not aimin' to run for de Legislature no more, they
was sad. One time I go with him to Smoak's, where Congressman George D. Tillman was to speak
on one of his campaigns. I felt pretty big, when Congressman Tillman smile and grasp de hand
of my daddy and say: 'You's goin' to say a few words for me befo' I starts, eh, Chisolm?' 'I
sho' will, if you laks,' say my daddy. Soon he mount de platform, and befo' he say a word,
both de white and de niggers clap deir hands and stamp deir feets and smile. My daddy bow,
smile, and say: 'Ladies and gentlemen: We, us, and company sent George Tillman to Congress
long ago and knows what he has done. Now we's gwine to send him back, and I is a little in
doubt as to whether he is gwine to take us to Washington, or bring Washington down here!' He
say, he jus' git started. But de crowd was laughin', dancin', and huggin' de Congressman, and
daddy laugh and set down.

"He introduce Master Duncan Clinch Heyward at Walterboro in 1902, when Master Heyward was making
his first race for governor. He raise such laughter and pay so many witty compliments to Master
Heyward, dat Governor Heyward, when he was 'lected, appoint my daddy to an office in Columbia,
and we come to Columbia to live in 1903. My daddy retire at de same time dat Governor Heyward
quit office, in 1907. He later wrote insurance on de lives of niggers, and he prosper.

"'Bout 1885, my daddy happen to be walkin' near de corner of Gervais and Pulaski streets, and
two niggers meet dere at de time and begin to quarrel. My daddy stop and watch them awhile.
One of them niggers kill de other, and some time afterward a nigger lawyer come to see my daddy
and ask him: 'Wasn't you dere?' 'I sho' was,' say my daddy. De nigger lawyer laugh and slap
daddy on de back and say: 'Come on.' Daddy come back in a few hours pretty tipsy. 'Dat lawyer
spend a lot on me,' say daddy, 'but de fool never let me tell him jus' what I knows.'

"A day or two afterward he was in de witness box. De nigger lawyer say: 'Now, Mister Chisolm,
tell your tale in your own way.' Daddy say: 'I saw de defendant and de man, now dead, as they
meet. They glare at each other and begin to talk harsh and cuss each other. Then, one strike
at de other and they back 'way and begin to reach in deir hind pockets.' Daddy stop, and de
nigger lawyer fairly scream: 'Yes, yes, go on!' 'That all I saw,' say my daddy, 'cause I run
to cover. I made it to de next corner in nothin' flat and pick up speed afterward. So I was
two blocks 'way, when I hear de shootin'!' De nigger lawyer nearly faint. He say: 'Who bought
you off?' Daddy say he would have told him at de start, if he'd had de chance.

"At another time, we was down on de 700 block of Wayne Street, at a nigger gatherin'. We often
spend days down dere collectin' weekly insurance dues, and we knowed most of de people. Dere
happen to be a young nigger dere, back from de West for a visit, and he was a great bragger.
He was tellin' 'bout corn in Texas. 'Dere,' he said, 'corn grow twenty feet high, with stalks
as big as the arm of John L. Sullivan, when he whupped Kilrain, and half a dozen big ears on
each stalk.' De crowd was thunderstruck.

"My daddy cleared his throat and say: 'Dat am nothin' in de way of corn. One day I was walkin'
past a forty-acre patch of corn, on de Governor Heyward plantation by de Combahee River and
de corn was so high and thick, I decide to ramble through it. 'Bout halfway over, I hears a
commotion. I walks on and peeps. Dere stands a four-ox wagon backed up to de edge of de field,
and two niggers was sawin' down a stalk. Finally they drag it on de wagon and drive off. I
seen one of them, in a day or two, and asks 'bout it. He say: 'We shelled 366 bushels of corn
from dat one ear, and then we saw 800 feet of lumber from de cob.'

"Dat young man soon slip out from de crowd and has never been seen here since. I thinks daddy
was outdone with me, 'cause I was not quickwitted and smart, lak him. He tell me once: 'You
must learn two good trades, and I think carpenterin' and brick-layin' safest.' I done that,
and I has never been sorry, 'cause I's made a good livin'. Governor Heyward was always a good
friend of daddy, and he was proud to see us makin' good in de insurance business." My mother
lived with them. I was a small girl when the war was on. My brother went to war with Marse
Satterwhite. When de Ku Klux and paddrollers traveled around in that section, they made Mr.
Satterwhite hold the niggers when they was whipped, but he most all the time let them loose,
exclaiming, 'they got loose'--he did not want many of them whipped.

"My mother had a kitchen way off from the house, wid a wide fireplace where she cooked victuals.
There was holes in back of de chimney with iron rods sticking out of them to hold de pans,
pots, kettles or boilers.

"People there did not believe much in ghosts. They were not much superstitious, but one time
some of the negroes thought they heard the benches in Bush River Baptist Church turn over when
nobody was in the church.

"Negroes most always shouted at their religious meetings. Before de negroes had their own church
meetings, the slaves went to the white folks' Bush River Baptist church and set up in the gallery.
I moved to Newberry when I was young, after I got married."

  Source: Maria Cleland, Newberry, S. C. (80 years old).
          Interviewer: G. L. Summer, Newberry, S. C. (5/17/37)

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  PETER CLIFTON
  EX-SLAVE, 89 YEARS OLD.

"You want me to start wid my fust memory and touch de high spots 'til dis very day? Dat'll
take a long time but I glad to find someone to tell dat to; I is! I 'members when I was a boy,
drivin' de calves to de pasture, a highland moccasin snake rise up in de path. I see dat forked
tongue and them bright eyes right now. I so scared I couldn't move out my tracks. De mercy
of de Lord cover me wid His wings. Dat snake uncoil, drop his head, and silently crawl away.
Dat was on de Biggers Mobley place 'tween Kershaw and Camden, where I was born, in 1848.

"My pappy name Ned; my mammy name Jane. My brudders and sisters was Tom, Lizzie, Mary, and
Gill. Us live in a log house wid a plank floor and a wooden chimney, dat was always ketchin'
afire and de wind comin' through and fillin' de room wid smoke and cinders. It was just one
of many others, just lak it, dat made up de quarters. Us had peg beds for de old folks and
just pallets on de floor for de chillun. Mattresses was made of wheat straw but de pillows
on de bed was cotton. I does 'member dat mammy had a chicken feather pillow she made from de
feathers she saved at de kitchen.

"My grandpappy name Warren and grandmammy name Maria. De rule on de place was: 'Wake up de
slaves at daylight, begin work when they can see, and quit work when they can't see'. But they
was careful of de rule dat say: 'You mustn't work a child, under twelve years old, in de field'.

"My master's fust wife, I heard him say, was Mistress Gilmore. Dere was two chillun by her.
Master Ed, dat live in a palace dat last time I visit Rock Hill and go to 'member myself to
him; then dere was Miss Mary dat marry her cousin, Dr. Jim Mobley. They had one child, Captain
Fred, dat took de Catawba rifles to Cuba and whip Spain for blowin' up de Maine. You say you
rather I talk 'bout old master and de high spots? Well, Master Biggers had a big plantation
and a big mansion four miles southeast of Chester. He buy my mammy and her chillun in front
of de court house door in Chester, at de sale of de Clifton Estate. Then he turn 'round and
buy my pappy dere, 'cause my mammy and sister Lizzie was cryin' 'bout him have to leave them.
Mind you I wasn't born then. Marster Biggers was a widower then and went down and courted de
widow Gibson, who had a plantation and fifty slaves 'tween Kershaw and Camden. Dere is where
I was born.

"Marster had one child, a boy, by my mistress, Miss Sallie. They call him Black George. Him
live long enough to marry a angel, Miss Kate McCrorey. They had four chillun. Dere got to be
ninety slaves on de place befo' war come on. One time I go wid pappy to de Chester place. Seem
lak more slaves dere than on de Gibson place. Us was fed up to de neck all de time, though
us never had a change of clothes. Us smell pretty rancid maybe, in de winter time, but in de
summer us no wear very much. Girls had a slip on and de boys happy in their shirt tails.

"Kept fox hounds on both places. Old Butler was de squirrel and 'possum dog. What I like best
to eat? Marster, dere is nothin' better than 'possum and yallow sweet 'taters. Right now, I
wouldn't turn dat down for pound cake and Delaware grape wine, lak my mistress use to eat and
sip while she watch my mammy and old Aunt Tilda run de spinnin' wheels.

"De overseer on de place was name Mr. Mike Melton. No sir, he poor man but him come from good
folks, not poor white trash. But they was cussed by marster, when after de war they took up
wid de 'publican party. Sad day for old marster when him didn't hold his mouth, but I'll get
to dat later.

"Marster Biggers believe in whippin' and workin' his slaves long and hard; then a man was scared
all de time of being sold away from his wife and chillun. His bark was worse then his bite
tho', for I never knowed him to do a wicked thing lak dat.

"How long was they whipped? Well, they put de foots in a stock and clamp them together, then
they have a cross-piece go right across de breast high as de shoulder. Dat cross-piece long
enough to bind de hands of a slave to it at each end. They always strip them naked and some
time they lay on de lashes wid a whip, a switch or a strap. Does I believe dat was a great
sin? No sir. Our race was just lak school chillun is now. De marster had to put de fear of
God in them sometime, somehow, and de Bible don't object to it.

"I see marster buy a many a slave. I never saw him sell but one and he sold dat one to a drover
for $450.00, cash down on de table, and he did dat at de request of de overseer and de mistress.
They was uneasy 'bout him.

"They give us Christmas Day. Every woman got a handkerchief to tie up her hair. Every girl
got a ribbon, every boy a barlow knife, and every man a shin plaster. De neighbors call de
place, de shin plaster, Barlow, Bandanna place. Us always have a dance in de Christmas.

"After freedom when us was told us had to have names, pappy say he love his old Marster Ben
Clifton de best and him took dat titlement, and I's been a Clifton ever since.

"Go way, white folks! What everthing mate for? De birds, de corn tassle and de silk, man and
woman, white folks and colored folks mates. You ask me what for I seek out Christina for to
marry. Dere was sumpin' 'bout dat gal, dat day I meets her, though her hair had 'bout a pound
of cotton thread in it, dat just 'tracted me to her lak a fly will sail 'round and light on
a 'lasses pitcher. I kept de Ashford Ferry road hot 'til I got her. I had to ask her old folks
for her befo' she consent. Dis took 'bout six months. Everything had to be regular. At last
I got de preacher, Rev. Ray Shelby to go down dere and marry us. Her have been a blessin' to
me every day since.

"Us have seven chillun. They's scattered east, west, north, and south. De only one left is
just David, our baby, and him is a baby six foot high and fifty-one years old.

"Yes sir, us had a bold, drivin', pushin', marster but not a hard-hearted one. I sorry when
military come and arrest him. It was dis a way, him try to carry on wid free labor, 'bout lak
him did in slavery. Chester was in military district no. 2. De whole state was under dat military
government. Old marster went to de field and cuss a nigger woman for de way she was workin',
choppin' cotton. She turnt on him wid de hoe and gashed him 'bout de head wid it. Him pull
out his pistol and shot her. Dr. Babcock say de wound in de woman not serious. They swore out
a warrant for Marster Biggers, arrest him wid a squad, and take him to Charleston, where him
had nigger jailors, and was kicked and cuffed 'bout lak a dog. They say de only thing he had
to eat was corn-meal-mush brought 'round to him and other nice white folks in a tub and it
was ladeled out to them thru de iron railin' into de palms of dere hands. Mistress stuck by
him, went and stayed down dere. The filthy prison and hard treatments broke him down, and when
he did get out and come home, him passed over de river of Jordan, where I hopes and prays his
soul finds rest. Mistress say one time they threatened her down dere, dat if she didn't get
up $10,000 they would send him where she would never see him again.

"Well, I must be goin'. Some day when de crops is laid by and us get de boll weevil whipped
off de field, I'll get David to bring me and dat gal, Christina, you so curious 'bout, to Winnsboro
to see you. Oh, how her gonna laugh and shake her sides when I get home and tell her all 'bout
what's down on dat paper! You say it's to be sent to Washington? Why, de President and his
wife will be tickled at some of them things. I's sure they will. Dat'll make Christina have
a great excitement when I tell her we is to be talked 'bout way up dere. I 'spect it will keep
her wake and she'll be hunchin' me and asking me all thru de night, what I give in.

