I may add that whatever may have been the shortcomings and the blunders of the Russian Government,
it is a blessing in this decisive crisis that Russians should have a firmly knit organization
and a traditional centre of authority in the power of the Czar. The present Emperor stands
as the national leader, not in the histrionic attitude of a war lord but in the quiet dignity
of his office. He has said and done the right thing, and his subjects will follow him to a
man. We are sure he will remember in the hour of victory the unstinted devotion and sacrifices
of all the nationalities and parties of his vast empire. It is our firm conviction that the
sad tale of reaction and oppression is at an end in Russia, and that our country will issue
from this momentous crisis with the insight and strength required for the constructive and
progressive statesmanship of which it stands in need.

Apart from the details of political and social reform, is the regeneration of Russia a boon
or a peril to European civilization? The declamations of the Germans have been as misleading
in this respect as in all others. The masterworks of Russian literature are accessible in translation
nowadays, and the cheap taunts of men like Bernhardi recoil on their own heads. A nation represented
by Pushkin, Turgeneff, Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky in literature, by Kramskoy, Verestchagin, Repin,
Glinka, Moussorgsky, Tchaikovsky in art, by Mendeleiff, Metchnikoff, Pavloff in science, by
Kluchevsky and Solovieff in history, need not be ashamed to enter the lists in an international
competition for the prizes of culture. But the German historians ought to have taught their
pupils that in the world of ideas it is not such competitions that are important. A nation
handicapped by its geography may have to start later in the field, and yet her performance
may be relatively better than that of her more favored neighbors. It is astonishing to read
German diatribes about Russian backwardness when one remembers that as recently as fifty years
ago Austria and Prussia were living under a régime which can hardly be considered more enlightened
than the present rule in Russia. The Italians in Lombardy and Venice have still a vivid recollection
of Austrian jails; and, as for Prussian militarism, one need not go further than the exploits
of the Zabern garrisons to illustrate its meaning. This being so, it is not particularly to
be wondered at that the eastern neighbor of Austria and Prussia has followed to some extent
on the same lines.

But the general direction of Russia's evolution is not doubtful. Western students of her history
might do well, instead of sedulously collecting damaging evidence, to pay some attention to
the building up of Russia's universities, the persistent efforts of the Zemstvos, the independence
and the zeal of the press. German scholars should read Hertzen's vivid description of the "idealists
of the forties." And what about the history of the emancipation of the serfs, or of the regeneration
of the judicature? The "reforms of the sixties" are a household word in Russia, and surely
they are one of the noblest efforts ever made by a nation in the direction of moral improvement.

Looking somewhat deeper, what right have the Germans to speak of their cultural ideals as superior
to those of the Russian people? They deride the superstitions of the mujikh as if tapers and
genuflexions were the principal matters of popular religion. Those who have studied the Russian
people without prejudice know better than that. Read Selma Lagerloef's touching description
of Russian pilgrims in Palestine. She, the Protestant, has understood the true significance
of the religious impulse which leads these poor men to the Holy Land, and which draws them
to the numberless churches of the vast country. These simple people cling to the belief that
there is something else in God's world besides toil and greed; they flock toward the light,
and find in it the justification of their human craving for peace and mercy. For the Russian
people have the Christian virtues of patience in suffering; their pity for the poor and oppressed
are more than occasional manifestations of individual feeling--they are deeply rooted in national
psychology. This frame of mind has been scorned as fit for slaves! It is indeed a case where
the learning of philosophers is put to shame by the insight of the simple-minded. Conquerors
should remember that the greatest victories in history have been won by the unarmed--by the
Christian confessors whom the Emperors sent to the lions, by the "old believers" of Russia
who went to Siberia and to the flames for their unyielding faith, by the Russian serfs who
preserved their human dignity and social cohesion in spite of the exactions of their masters,
by the Italians, Poles, and Jews, when they were trampled under foot by their rulers. It is
such a victory of the spirit that Tolstoy had in mind when he preached his gospel of non-resistance,
and I do not think even a German on the war path would be blind enough to suppose that Tolstoy's
message came from a craven soul. The orientation of the so-called "intelligent" class in Russia--that
is, the educated middle class, which is much more numerous and influential than people suppose--is
somewhat different, of course. It is "Western" in this sense, that it is imbued with current
European ideas as to politics, economics, and law.

It has to a certain extent lost the simple faith and religious fervor of the peasants, but
the keynote of popular ideals has been faithfully preserved by this class. It is still characteristically
humanitarian in its view of the world and in its aims. A book like that of Gen. von Bernhardi
would be impossible in Russia. If anybody were to publish it it would not only fall flat, but
earn for its author the reputation of a bloodhound. Many deeds of cruelty and brutality happen,
of course, in Russia, but no writer of any standing would dream of building up a theory of
violence in vindication of a claim to culture. It may be said, in fact, that the leaders of
Russian public opinion are pacific, cosmopolitan, and humanitarian to a fault. The mystic philosopher
Vladimir Solovieff used to dream of the union of the churches with the Pope as the spiritual
head, and democracy in the Russian sense as the broad basis of the rejuvenated Christendom.
Dostoyevsky, a writer most sensitive to the claims of nationality in Russia, defined the ideal
of the Russians in a celebrated speech as the embodiment of a universally humanitarian type.
These are extremes, but characteristic extremes pointing to the trend of national thought.
Russia is so huge and so strong that material power has ceased to be attractive to her thinkers.
But we need not yet retire into the desert and deliver ourselves to be bound hand and foot
by civilized Germans. Russia also wields a sword--a charmed sword, blunt in an unrighteous
cause, but sharp enough in the defense of right and freedom. And this war is indeed our "Befreiungskrieg."
The Slavs must have their chance in the history of the world, and the date of their coming
of age will mark a new departure in the growth of civilization.

Yours truly,

PAUL VINOGRADOFF.

Court Place, Iffley, Oxford.

Russian Appeal for the Poles

By A. Konovalov of the Russian Duma.

[A Letter to the Russkia Vedomosti, No. 231, P. 2, Oct. 8, 1914.]

