CONTENTS

       *       *       *       *       *

                                   PAGE.

EDITORIAL.

  THE FIGURES--FINANCIAL                                          187
  EXERCISE OF BENEVOLENCE                                         188
  THE COLORED PEOPLE AT THE NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION.               189
  PARAGRAPHS                                                      191
  CONGREGATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF OHIO--GRAVE OF LOVEJOY--WHAT
    SHALL WE DO WITH THE CHINESE?                                 192

THE SOUTH.

  FISK UNIVERSITY                                                 195
  ANNIVERSARY AT HAMPTON INSTITUTE                                196
  GREGORY INSTITUTE                                               198
  RELIGIOUS INTEREST AT TALLADEGA                                 199
  LETTER FROM REV. J. H. PARR, AUSTIN--THE OLD COMMISSARY
    BUILDING                                                      201
  STUDENT'S LETTER                                                202
  OBITUARY: MRS. H. M. STEVENS                                    203
  OBITUARY: MISS O. E. GOODRIDGE                                  204

BUREAU OF WOMAN'S WORK.

  STATE ORGANIZATIONS--VERMONT SCHOOL AT MCINTOSH, GA.--ILLINOIS
    HOME MISS. UNION                                              205
  A TRUE INCIDENT                                                 206

CHILDREN'S PAGE.

  Prof. ALBERT SALISBURY, Superintendent of Education.      JULY, 1885.

  Receipts.                     Donations.    Legacies.       Total.

  Oct. 1, 1884, to May 31, 1885  $136,972.82   $21,784.35    $158,757.17
  Oct. 1, 1883, to May 31, 1884   132,507.66    21,710.40     154,218.06
                                 -----------   ----------    -----------
                              Inc. $4,465.16  Inc. $73.95 Inc. $4,539.11

       *       *       *       *       *

Our financial storm signal is still out. That threatening forty thousand dollars' deficit does
not let up in its indications of approach. The black clouds are plainly discernible. We have
been for months anxiously watching their movements. Our prayers and efforts have been steadily
turned towards their dissipation. We do not lose faith. We believe in our work. We believe
in our friends. The work has merit. Our friends have ability. The two will come together and
the merit will cause the ability to stand forth. There are many things very decidedly encouraging.

Never in all our history has the work been more abundantly blessed. Our schools have been crowded
and God's Spirit has come down in great power upon the hearts of our pupils. In one school
the revival character of the religious services had to cease, because there were none left
to be converted! Our churches have been revived and enlarged. A spirit of joy and thankfulness
is in the hearts of our missionaries.

Notwithstanding the hard times, our receipts from the churches and living donors are larger
by several thousand dollars than they were at this time last year. These facts are the indications
of a living cause and an able constituency. They call upon us to lift our heads in hope and
to inspire one another to still greater activity, and, if need be, to self-denial. We have
no legacies in sight, and we certainly do not desire our friends to die. Our prayer is that
they may live; that they may live long. Apart from their gifts in money we desire the strength
and the grandeur of their lives to aid us in carrying forward the great and growing work on
hand. We again call upon them to help us round out this year without a debt.

We take the liberty to point out one way in which they can do this.

Our missionaries are, many of them, returning at this time of year for a brief rest at the
North. They need it. They have earned it. It may seem wrong to tax these brave workers, but
we venture to say that if they are invited to tell the public the story of their experience
they will not refuse to do it; and we venture to say further, it will be a story the public
will be glad to hear. Let them have a royal welcome home by the churches. In the language of
Rev. Sam Jones, the noted Southern Evangelist, as he counseled the churches to receive the
new converts, "Let it not be on the tips of your fingers or on the palms of your hands you
receive them, but, on your hearts," and God will bless the welcome to the churches, to the
missionaries and to the work. Hear their story, heed its lessons, and it will not be long before
the clouds shall roll away and our financial storm-signal be taken down.

       *       *       *       *       *

The exercise of benevolence Christ never conditioned on human recognition. The publicans and
heathen furnished examples on that plane. When Christianity uncovers its roots there is never
anything commercial even hinted at. Sinners need salvation. That is enough. Divine love moves
in the presence of necessity. Its movement is electric. Even if ingratitude smite it in the
face; nay, worse, if malignancy would summon forces for its crucifixion, without relaxing an
iota it breathes the prayer, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." Unswervingly
Christ held along, doing right because it was right. Passion in all its forms of unbalanced
feeling lay far beneath His holy life. A righteous indignation against Phariseeism He felt;
He was moved with compassion when He saw the people scattered abroad as sheep without a shepherd;
in numberless forms in the presence of sorrow and want His emotion was stirred, but the machinations
of wicked men against the establishment of righteousness, He contemplated with imperturbable
equanimity. It was not merely that He had a strong faith that all such opposition was the imagination
of a vain thing. He knew that it was so.

It may not be given His disciples to walk so much by knowledge as did the Master, but where
He leads, they can follow in a faith that shall sustain them and give them triumph in every
path of duty. Opposition may meet them. Difficulties may lie in the path. Evil men may oppose
them, and good men, misinterpreting their motives and misunderstanding their work, may misrepresent
them. But what matters it? Conscious in the strength that they are doing right, they will work
on unhindered and undisturbed. Christian virtue finds in its own development all the reward
necessary to stimulate continuance in well doing.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COLORED PEOPLE AT THE NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION.

The colored people of the United States are just twenty years out of the house of bondage.
With long centuries of barbarism and two hundred and fifty years of slavery behind them, they
started out homeless, landless, moneyless and experienceless. The New Orleans Exposition was
to have exhibits from all lands: Asia, with its millennium of transmitted achievements; Europe,
with its centuries of enlightened development; the United States, with their wonderful improvements
on the best the world had produced, were all to be there. What show could the twenty-year-old
freedmen make in such company? The very idea of their attempting to put in an appearance would
seem absurd.

But the colored people desired at least to stand up and be counted. They determined to be there.
The entire gallery in one end of the immense Government building was assigned them, and the
specimens of their skill more than filled it. They came from nearly every State and Territory
in the Union. Their exhibits represented almost every department of mechanical, agricultural
and artistic skill. Excellence in workmanship, fertility in invention, tastefulness in the
fine arts, were all displayed to a remarkable degree in the large collection. Southerners and
Northerners were alike astonished at what their eyes beheld. Those who thought that the negro
has no higher mission than to be a "hewer of wood and drawer of water," were compelled either
to change their minds or else to say they did not believe that the colored people did the work.
It was amusing to hear the remarks of some of the latter class, as they looked at some beautiful
specimens of negro handicraft or ingenuity.

It may interest the readers of the MISSIONARY to glance at the great variety of lines along
which negro ability put itself on exhibition.

Examination papers from schools were very numerous, showing proficiency in penmanship, spelling,
arithmetic, algebra, geometry, free drawing, grammar and translations from the classics; fine
needlework of all kinds; millinery; dress-making, tailoring; portrait and landscape painting
in oil, water-colors and crayon; photography; sculpture; models of steamboats, locomotives,
stationary engines, and railway cars; cotton presses, plows, cultivators, and reaping machines;
wagons, buggies; tools of almost all kinds, from the hammer of the carpenter to the finely-wrought
forceps of the dentist; piano and organ (both pipe and reed) making; carpentry, cabinet-making;
upholstery; tin-smithing; black-smithing, boot and shoe making; basket and broom making; pottery,
plain and glazed; brick-making; agricultural products, including all the cereals and fruits
raised in the country; silk-worm culture; fruit preserving; flour from a mill, and machinery
from a foundry owned by a colored man; patented inventions and improvements, nearly all of
them useful and practical, were quite numerous; drugs and medicines; stationery, printing and
publishing.

Some of the articles on exhibition are worthy of special mention--a black walnut pulpit, in
design and finish as beautiful and tasteful as any church might wish; a sofa finely upholstered,
and the covering embroidered with artistically-executed needlework, showing four prominent
events in the life of Toussaint l'Ouverture; a chandelier, very beautiful in design and finely
finished; a complete set of dentist's instruments, in polish and finish remarkable; a little
engine, made by a silversmith of Knoxville, who was a slave, and who has become a skilled workman
of local reputation. He never worked in a shop till he had one of his own. He learned the use
of tools without any instruction. These articles would certainly merit attention, even if put
in competition with similar specimens of the very best workmanship.

Neither the negroes nor their friends have any reason to regret that an exhibit was made. It
was in every sense of the word creditable. It marks a progress simply wonderful, when all the
circumstances are taken into the account. It is prophetic of a very hopeful future. It demonstrates
that the negro race can enter every profession and calling in which the white man is found.
It proclaims in tones that no one should misunderstand, that he who writes or speaks of the
colored people should be careful how he pronounces judgment in regard to their capacity. They
should be given a white man's chance. No trade nor occupation should be closed against them.
Open doors should welcome to honorable competition, white and black alike. Let this be so,
and in less than half a century there will not be a trade, nor profession, nor calling, in
which black men will not be found in the front. There will be preachers and professors, and
editors, and physicians, and lawyers, and statesmen, and teachers, and bankers, and business
men, and artisans, and mechanics and farmers, of African descent, of whom, as brethren, the
very greatest of white men will not need to be ashamed. Let writers on the negro stop theorizing
about his capacity for this or that calling, and unite in demanding that he have a fair chance
to become what God has made him capable of becoming. It is wrong, it is wicked for men who
by voice and pen influence public sentiment, to conclude that because the negro is now a waiter,
a boot-black, a barber, a laborer, that therefore he cannot be anything else, or even that
he cannot probably be anything else. By the very force of circumstances he has been compelled
to occupy these positions. By an unjust public sentiment he has been shut out from even an
opportunity to prove his capacity to stand beside his white brother in every calling.

Public sentiment should be reformed at this point; and the colored people's exhibition of what
they have achieved in the short space of twenty years, in spite of opposition, and in spite
of lack of opportunity, assures us that if they are permitted they will contribute no small
share in securing the reformation. We advise all leaders of public sentiment who do not desire
twenty-five or thirty years hence to be found eating their words of to-day, or explaining how
it was that they came to be on ground so untenable, to heed the lessons of this Exposition,
and range themselves with those who look at facts, and who recognize the prophetic power of
facts, and heartily accept the prophecy, even if this prophecy run counter to what have been
their fancies.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Colored People's Educational Day at the World's Exposition called out an immense crowd
and proved to be of very great interest. Speeches were made by representatives of both races.
Rev. Dr. Palmer, the eloquent Presbyterian divine, of New Orleans, and Col. Wm. Preston Johnson,
President of the Tulane University, represented the Louisiana whites, and in their speeches
not only complimented the colored people on the progress they had made, but assured them of
the hearty sympathy and co-operation of all good people in the South. The Rev. A. E. P. Albert,
a graduate of our Straight University, represented the colored people. The newspapers published
his speech in full. We have read it with much interest. It is a speech of considerable power.
It is an honor to the man, to his race and to the A. M. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Student's Letter this month is from Talladega College. The memories it portrays are not
pleasant, but it is fitting to remember the pit out of which we have been digged. The darkness
of the picture makes the present opportunities and privileges of the colored people to shine
out all the brighter. Heartily can we thank God that these terrible things are now only a memory.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONGREGATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF OHIO.

After the address of Secretary Powell before this body, May 13, 1885, a committee consisting
of Rev. James Brand, Rev. Enoch F. Baird and Thos. C. Reynolds was appointed to report upon
it. We subjoin the report, which was adopted:

     Your committee appointed to report upon the speech of Secretary
     Powell beg leave to call attention to but one of the many points
     of interest in the address. That is, that the American
     Missionary Association is now in debt to the amount of $30,000,
     and that unless special efforts are made by the churches, the
     end of the year will see a debt of $40,000. It is manifest that
     this will necessarily mean the suspension of some forms of
     mission work, the crippling of others and the sad embarrassment
     of this grand organization for years to come. It need not be;
     it ought not to be; if Christian men and women do their duty,
     it will not be. Your committee therefore propose this
     resolution:

     Resolved, That we, the members of this association, will
     individually urge upon the churches under our charge the duty of
     making earnest and special efforts during the remainder of the
     year to relieve the American Missionary Association from this
     impending calamity.

       *       *       *       *       *

"GRAVE OF LOVEJOY"--CORRECTION.

EDITOR AMERICAN MISSIONARY.--DEAR SIR: Did Brother Imes (June No., p. 168) misunderstand Father
Johnson, or has the old man forgotten? There was no "hasty burial by the river." The body remained
all night in the warehouse, was taken to the house the next day and buried from the house in
the cemetery. Johnson dug two graves there; the first in a spot afterward taken for a road
or walk, and the second where the remains now lie. The memorial tablet was put there in good
faith by an editor of Alton, who greatly admired Lovejoy's defense of the freedom of the press.
But will there never be a more appropriate monument? Is "Spare him now he is buried" all that
is ever to be said over the grave of Elijah P. Lovejoy?

  H. L. HAMMOND.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THE CHINESE?

A momentous, an urgent, and a very hard question!

Exclude them, said the politicians, and close out thus forever the problem their presence involves.
This seems, at first sight, a simple and easy, albeit a rather rough, answer. And so the Exclusion
bill became a law. But it is almost certain that there are more Chinese in America to-day because
of that law than there would have been without it. They came in such great numbers after the
law was enacted and before it went into operation that (as I think) the decrease in immigration
since that date has not as yet offset that increase.

For nearly three years on our shore our King Canute has sat in his royal chair forbidding the
tide to rise. As long as ebb-tide lasts his authority seems to be respected, and the problem
of these diurnal encroachments of the sea upon the land seems to be solved. But when the time
for flood-tide comes again, Canute will have to move his chair, his mandates to the contrary
notwithstanding. Already, if rumor is to be believed, a profitable business is conducted upon
Puget Sound in smuggling Chinese from Vancouver's Island to our forbidden soil. Certain it
is that many Chinese, failing to get tickets at Hong Kong for San Francisco, buy them to Victoria.
Already it becomes a serious question what fence can be built along our northern frontier so
close, so strong, so high that no Chinese can anywhere climb over, or crawl under, or work
through. Mexico wants the Chinese, we hear. How far is it from the northern line of Mexico
to the southern line of California and Arizona? And once across that line our Chinese invaders,
coming slyly one by one, have won the fight and go and come at their own pleasure.

Exclusion has not solved this problem, and it is safe to add that, as it should not, so it
never will. For this policy is in contradiction to the vital principles of our national existence;
and either it must be abandoned, or sooner or later this contradiction will develop into conflict
irrepressible. Those vital principles are two: "All men created equal," and "All men endowed
with certain inalienable rights," etc. Our fathers counted them to be self-evident, and placed
them as twin pillars in our temple of liberty. Now, a nation cannot knock out its own foundation
stones, cannot defy the laws of its own organic life without becoming divided against itself;
and in the conflict ensuing, either its vital principles will be reaffirmed and rehabilitated,
or else the nation dies. We have had one lesson at this point, and we ought not to need another
for a dozen centuries. Exclusion is only a make-shift of the politicians, not the offspring
of real statesmanship. It has not solved the problem, and it never will.

What then shall we do? Educate and Christianize these heathen, we reply: So you will make them
to be Chinese no longer, but Americans. This is the right answer, but, alas, how much easier
said than done! The undertaking, hard enough at first, grows harder, in some respects, as the
years roll on.

One added difficulty is the wider diffusion of these strangers over our whole country. The
prejudice which their peculiarities excite is thus extended, while the number to be reached
in any one locality is diminished. Work for the Chinese ought now to be prosecuted, not simply
in Sunday schools, but in Mission schools, kept in session every evening and alt through the
year in most of the principal cities of the whole Union, as well as on the Pacific Coast. But
the outward and visible encouragements will be smaller, because each Mission finds its particular
field reduced in size.

Another added difficulty is in an increased and deepened antagonism on the part of the great
mass of Chinese to real Christianity. Multitudes have seen enough of the true light to reject
it; and having rejected, now to hate it. Oh, it drives one back to God in an agony of mingled
longing and despair to see this mighty multitude that will not come and be saved, drifting
along in darkness and wretchedness through this life to the blackness of darkness beyond! And
this is intensified by the thought of the children now quite numerous in our Chinese communities.
We know to what the daughters are destined. We know what it is that gives them, in this country,
a special money value; and as to the sons, one can scarcely conceive circumstances more perilous
than those in which they are placed. Breathing our free American air, entering readily into
the Young America spirit, they will not brook the harsh discipline which, in their native land,
would have been submissively and perhaps with profit accepted. At the same time, the parents
ill understand that discipline of love which adjusts itself to these new circumstances, and
when it can no longer compel, succeeds in wooing and winning and molding aright the boyish
heart. Demons incarnate, both American and Chinese, tempt these boys, while they are unprotected
by any reverence either for the ancestors and idols of their own people or for the American
God whom Americans by their conduct so cruelly belie.

And this suggests another added difficulty: the contrast which our Chinese Christians cannot
but observe between the precepts of the Bible, the example of Christ, the exhortations of those
who led them to Jesus, and the practices of multitudes of American professors of religion.
And, too often, they are led to do as we do, and not as we say. While at the same time the
indifference of many professed Christians to the salvation of this Chinese, and the attitude
of many churches toward those already converted, loads the problem down with difficulties such
as might well drive us to despair.

But, no; nothing shall drive us to despair. This problem must be solved. This mountain mass
of heathenism must be--not removed and cast into the sea, but transformed into the mountain
of the Lord's house, and made an element--an element of untold value and efficiency--in our
American Zion. Let us have faith as the grain of mustard seed. Let us hear the voice which
adds to our great commission the promise: "Lo, I am with you alway." Let us take courage at
the remembrance of mercies past. With all these difficulties upon us it still remains true
that no other non-Protestant foreigners are as accessible to us as the Chinese; and that in
proportion to the resources of men and money used, scarcely any evangelistic work yields equal
visible returns. There is only one thing to do--for Christ's sake, for our country's sake,
for the sake of the uncounted millions beyond the sea--we must, and we will, claim and conquer
these precious souls for their Redeemer and our Lord.

  WM. C. POND.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SOUTH.

PROF. ALBERT SALISBURY, SUPERINTENDENT OF EDUCATION.

       *       *       *       *       *

FISK UNIVERSITY, NASHVILLE, TENN.

A CLASS OF FIFTEEN GRADUATED FROM COLLEGE.

Anniversary week at Fisk University is closed. Its alternate shower and sunshine have fairly
represented the rejoicing and the sadness that always come with this harvest time of the year.
The week began on the evening of Friday, May 22, with the exhibition of the Senior Preparatory
Class, and was followed by the Baccalaureate and Missionary sermons on Sunday, the anniversaries
of the literary societies and the alumni association, and the graduating exercises of the Normal
Department on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, and the final great day of the feast, the College
Commencement, on Thursday, May 28.

This programme has become so fixed that to go over it in detail would be monotonous; let us
rather note a few of the significant and interesting facts that belong particularly to this
anniversary week. The comparatively large size of the classes entering and leaving college
has been one marked feature and a source of great encouragement. Thirteen young men and three
young women were received into the Freshman class, and a few days later thirteen young men
and two young women, having completed four years of college work, took the degree of B. A.
This is more than double the largest class ever before graduated from Fisk, and while the increase
in numbers cannot yet be sustained with regularity from year to year, it does show a growth
in our work and a strengthening of purpose on the part of our young people. In 1874, a class
of six young men entered college, but only two ever got beyond the threshold: the others lost
heart and purpose; of the present class three have fallen by the hand of death within the four
years and only three have dropped out for other causes.

Commencement day revealed in the tone of the graduating orations a moral earnestness and uprightness
of principle that called forth the commendation of our stranger guests. The best record of
the class, however, is in the influence its members have exerted in the school during the whole
of their Senior year.

It may be remembered that a year ago the Alumni Association adopted a plan by which, beginning
three years after graduation, at least one per cent. of the earnings of each member is to be
appropriated to an endowment fund for Fisk University. Whenever the sum reaches $1,000, it
is to be devoted to some chair in the University. This year the Treasurer reported $140 on
hand. The beginning seems small, but who can tell to what the stream may grow? Part of the
Alumni anniversary was given up to a memorial service for one who, after six years of faithful
work among her people, has died within the year.

On the evening devoted to the Normal Department, Prof. Salisbury was expected to address us
on some educational topic. In his absence, Prof. Smith, of the chair of Greek in Vanderbilt
University, kindly filled the place and gave us an excellent address on Thomas Carlyle. Prof.
Smith is of Southern birth, but has manifested a cordial friendliness and an interest that
has led him to really investigate the work of Fisk University.

On Commencement Day, Rev. R. G. Hutchins, D. D., of Minneapolis, Minn., honored us with his
presence and with an address, both wise and eloquent, on "Sublime Motives," holding up three
as especially worthy to prompt to action: responsibility for the architecture of our own character,
responsibility for the development of latent moral power, and the conservation of moral forces.

Few who heard it will forget the solemn charge given to the graduating class by President Cravath,
illustrated by an incident, as told by the Rev. Sam. Jones, of the battle of Nashville. General
Hood saw a Federal battery making dreadful havoc in his army, and sent to a subordinate general
a messenger, saying, "Give him my compliments, and tell him I ask at his hands the battery
in the Locust Grove." The general was in the thick of the battle and could not be found. The
same message was sent to another with the same result. Finally to a third he sent the messenger,
saying, "Give him my love, and tell him I ask at his hands the battery in the Locust Grove."
The battery was speedily taken and the message of affection returned to General Hood. So are
these young people sent out with the love of teachers and friends, to capture the batteries
that are dealing moral death to this people.

After the degree of B. A. had been conferred on the fifteen graduates, that of M. A. was given
to fourteen former graduates, who for three years or more have been engaged in scholarly employments.

To add to the interest of Commencement, Gen. Fisk arrived the evening before, and closed the
public exercises of Thursday with an address, whose pleasantry made every one forget the fatigue
of five consecutive hours of speech-making. Several members of the Legislature, now in extra
session in the Capitol, were present both at the Commencement exercises and at the collation
which followed.

A new and interesting feature of this anniversary was the part taken by the Girls' Industrial
Department. A basket of cake made by members of the cooking class graced each table at the
Commencement dinner and was by general consent pronounced excellent. In the Assembly Room of
Jubilee Hall were displayed various garments and household articles neatly made by the sewing
classes.

Nothing has been said about examinations; they are like the bread of our daily meals, always
expected and very important. A more thorough examination than usual was given the classes in
drawing and in vocal music. One exercise in the latter examination was the singing at sight
of a tune, in four parts, composed by a member of the class.

Our halls are already deserted; nothing holds our students after Commencement: they scatter
at once for work, and within a few weeks, in at least half a dozen States, miniature Fisk Universities
will be in operation.

  ANNA M. CAHILL.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNIVERSARY AT HAMPTON INSTITUTE, VIRGINIA.

In beauty, interest and enthusiasm Hampton anniversary days abate nothing as years go on. The
seventeenth anniversary exercises were held on May 21, with a graduating class of forty-two,
of whom five were Indians. Visitors were present from North and South, East and West, and such
expressions as "The half was not told me!" and "Why didn't I bring my wife?" were frequent,
as usual.

Of the morning examinations, one of the most interesting was a general exercise conducted by
the chaplain, in review of the current news of the world, which is daily read and discussed
with the students. Victor Hugo, French and English politics, the Afghan trouble, Russia and
Nihilism, Irish Nationalists, France and China, England and Egypt, were touched in the questions,
and the answers and general interest showed the value of this daily exercise. In the ancient
history class, printed questions were shuffled and distributed among the students, and question
and answer were spoken out promptly by each scholar, giving an attractive quickness and vivacity
to the recitation. The class of little Indian geographers stood before a table on which was
a miniature United States made of sand, with its Eastern elevations, its great central plains,
and its high Western ranges. A thread of blue worsted, put in place by the young world-builders,
simulated the Mississippi, while cities (in the guise of white buttons) sprang up with a rapidity
unknown even in the great West. The practice-teaching class is always of especial interest
and significance, as over ninety per cent of Hampton's students devote themselves to teaching
as their life mission. A dozen little bright-eyed, brown-faced primaries from the "Butler"
training school received a geography lesson from one of the senior girls, criticised by her
class-mates. Its grand finale was a miniature volcanic eruption, creating a sensation among
the Butler mites.

The industrial exhibits and the training shops, with their Negro and Indian apprentices, attracted
interested attention, as usual.

The emotions of anniversary day culminated in the afternoon exercises, in which were several
incidents of unusual interest. The pretty and graceful salutatorian, fair as most of her hearers,
was introduced as a young representative of the family of faithful Mary Peake, who, just escaped
from slavery herself, taught the first "contraband school" at Hampton. This introduction roused
the war-memories of Rev. Dr. Strieby, who, greeting the young girl as she stepped on the platform,
told the story of the first missionary sent down to Old Point by the American Missionary Association,
his reception by the contrabands as an angel of deliverance, and his first school, opened Sept.
17, 1861, with Mary Peake as its teacher, till she gave up her life in the work for her people.

The pastor's class was represented by a Baptist minister from Hampton, who gave an account
of the Old and New ministry, somewhat characteristic of both. This pastor's class has become
an interesting feature of Hampton, with a mission of peace and good-will to both races and
all sects and sections. Now in its second year, it numbers, as pupils, 17 colored pastors of
Hampton and vicinity. Baptist and Methodist; and as teachers Rev. Mr. Frissell, chaplain, and
Rev. Mr. Tolman, ex-chaplain of the school, Northern Congregationalist ministers, with Miss
Alice Bacon, who thus worthily wears her venerated fathers mantle, and the Southern white ministers
from Hampton, Episcopal, Baptist and Methodist, in unity of spirit that is verily "a good and
a pleasant thing to see." The studies are the Bible and Bible history, pastoral theology and
composition. In cultivating better understanding and kindly relations between these colored
and white neighbors, and the relations of the school with both, as well as in helping meet
the great need of an intelligent ministry, this pastor's class is doing important work. Some
of its members board at the school, working their way in part like the other students, sometimes
entering their classes. Some are helped to come by their congregations, who appreciate the
opportunity.

A handsome gold medal, presented by Mr. W. J. Demorest, of New York City, was awarded to Harris
Barrett, of the senior class, for excellence in the junior elementary studies, the three R's,
geography, grammar and spelling, in which the whole class were examined for the prize without
special review, only one falling below an average of 50 per cent. on all, and five averaging
above 90--a better showing than some Northern college seniors could make, I fear.

As usual, some of the school's former graduates returned to tell the story of their labors,
and nearly fifty were present on the invitation yearly renewed to all.

The valedictorian was the youngest of a family of one sister and four brothers, children of
a minister, who have graduated at the school, the last two with the honor of the valedictory.

The Indian graduates were represented by two of their number, a young man of the Sac and Fox
tribe, Indian Territory, who gave his own reasons for claiming and desiring citizenship for
his people, which were: 1st, that the Indian also is a child of the Father; 2d, that he was
once owner of the land; 3d, that without this protection and help he must perish; 4th, that
with it he can become a useful member of the nation, a man among men. An Indian girl plead
eloquently for the Indian woman, and protested against the use of "savage" as a synonym of
Indian, since "there are also yellow savages, black savages and white savages." The representations
of the past, present and future of Indian life will not soon be forgotten by those who saw
them. The past's barbaric glories were typified by a tall young brave and Indian girl in the
beautiful dress of the wilderness. They stood silent, like a vision of the ancient days, while
their story was told. The present's pathos was represented by "Lo" the very "poor Indian" and
squaw in shabby blankets, bewailing--as their Indian interpreter explained--the loss of lands
and buffalo, asking where to go next--"white man everywhere"; the future's hope by a promising
pair of Hampton students, able to speak for themselves, work for themselves and teach their
people, with their white brethren's help, in the Christian's road. As the three groups stood
in striking tableau--a visible embodiment of truth which I wish every white citizen of the
United States could have seen and taken to heart--their comrades of the Indian school rose
behind them, and started a Dakota hymn, recognized by the melody as "From Greenland's Icy Mountains,"
or, as interpreted to Indian understanding, "From the very distant cold land--from the hot
land far away." As the plaintive strain died away, it was taken up in English in the richer
chorus of their colored schoolmates, and the whole audience, rising, joined in the grand third
verse, "Shall we whose souls are lighted," with effect not to pass from their hearts.

Diplomas were presented by Rev. Dr. Strieby, vice-president of the Board of Trustees, to the
graduating class of seventeen colored and three Indian young women, and twenty colored and
two Indian young men, 42 in all. Eloquent addresses were made also by Rev Dr. McVickar of Philadelphia,
and Rev. Dr. Armstrong of Norfolk, imprisoned once by General Butler because he would pray
for Jefferson Davis, but now thanking God for the new order, and rejoicing in Negro education.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREGORY INSTITUTE, WILMINGTON, N. C.

The year at Gregory Institute, as usual, has been a busy one, both in school and out. As a
worthy colored member of our church expressed it, "We are tormented with Christian work at
Wilmington." We have had this year a total enrollment of 284 pupils, and the percentage of
attendance has never been greater. The pupils have, as a rule, worked well, and in many cases
the progress has been very marked. While we are not completely satisfied with the results,
yet there has been very much to encourage our labors. The Lord has been merciful in keeping
the workers in good health, and there has been no death and but few cases of sickness among
the pupils.

The last week was taken up with examinations, both oral and written, and in perfecting arrangements
for the anxiously looked-for event among our people, the closing exhibition.

Such a clamoring for tickets one never heard. Of course, not one-fourth asked for could be
issued, for lack of room; but, as far as possible, the parents were admitted. Although a thunder-storm,
lasting about an hour, came up just as the doors were opened, the people continued to pour
in until the hall was as full as an egg, upwards of 500 finding seats.

The programme, which was a long and varied one, was carried out without any drawback whatever,
thanks to the untiring efforts of the teachers and of Mr. and Mrs. Dodge, who all planned so
well to make it a success. For three and one-half hours the audience gave the closest attention,
and the comments since have been very flattering. Several, including some Northerners, have
declared it to be the best exhibition they ever attended.

