[184] A friend, writing to me from Italy, speaks thus of Botticelli, and of the painters associated
with him: "When I ask myself what it is I find fascinating in him--for instance, which of his
pictures, or what element in them--I am forced to admit that it is the touch of paganism in
him, the fairy-story element, the echo of a beautiful lapsed mythology which he has found the
means of transmitting." The words I have printed in italics seem to me very true. At the same
time we must bear in mind that the scientific investigation of nature had not in the fifteenth
century begun to stand between the sympathetic intellect and the outer world. There was still
the possibility of that "lapsed mythology," the dream of poets and the delight of artists,
seeming positively the best form of expression for sentiments aroused by nature.

[185] De Rerum Naturâ, lib. v. 737.

[186] The rose-tree background in a Madonna belonging to Lord Elcho is a charming instance
of the value given to flowers by careful treatment.

[187] I cannot bring myself to accept Mr. Pater's reading of the Madonna's expression. It seems
to me that Botticelli meant to portray the mingled awe and tranquillity of a mortal mother
chosen for the Son of God. He appears to have sometimes aimed at conveying more than painting
can compass; and, since he had not Lionardo's genius, he gives sadness, mournfulness, or discontent,
for some more subtle mood. Next to the Madonna of the Uffizzi, Botticelli's loveliest religious
picture to my mind is the "Nativity" belonging to Mr. Fuller Maitland. Poetic imagination in
a painter has produced nothing more graceful and more tender than the dance of angels in the
air above, and the embracement of the angels and the shepherds on the lawns below.

[188] In the Academy of Fine Arts at Venice. I do not mention this picture as a complete pendant
to Botticelli's famous tondo. The faces of S. Catherine and Madonna, however, have something
of the rarity that is so striking in that work.

[189] I might mention stanzas 122-124 of Poliziano's Giostra, describing Venus in the lap of
Mars; or stanzas 99-107, describing the birth of Venus; and from Boiardo's Orlando Innamorato,
I might quote the episode of Rinaldo's punishment by Love (lib. ii. canto xv. 43), or the tale
of Silvanella and Narcissus (lib. ii. canto xvii. 49).

[190] I hope to make use of this passage in a future section of my work on the Italian Poetry
of the Renaissance. Therefore I pass by this portion of Piero's art-work now.

[191] Uffizzi Gallery.

[192] See the bas-relief upon the pedestal of his "Perseus" in the Loggia de' Lanzi.

[193] In the National Gallery.

[194] His family name was Domenico di Currado di Doffo Bigordi. He probably worked during his
youth and early manhood as a goldsmith and got his artist's name from the trade of making golden
chaplets for the Florentine women. See Vasari, vol. v. p. 66.

[195] What, after all, remains the grandest quality of Ghirlandajo is his powerful drawing
of characteristic heads. They are as various as they are vigorous. What a nation of strong
men must the Florentines have been, we feel while gazing at his frescoes.

[196] In many houses he painted roundels with his own hand, and of naked women plenty.

The Renaissance, so far as Painting is concerned, may be said to have culminated between the
years 1470 and 1550. These dates, it must be frankly admitted, are arbitrary; nor is there
anything more unprofitable than the attempt to define by strict chronology the moments of an
intellectual growth so complex, so unequally progressive, and so varied as that of Italian
art. All that the historian can hope to do, is to strike a mean between his reckoning of years
and his more subtle calculations based on the emergence of decisive genius in special men.
An instance of such compromise is afforded by Lionardo da Vinci, who belongs, as far as dates
go, to the last half of the fifteenth century, but who must, on any estimate of his achievement,
be classed with Michael Angelo among the final and supreme masters of the full Renaissance.
To violate the order of time, with a view to what may here be called the morphology of Italian
art, is, in his case, a plain duty.

Bearing this in mind, it is still possible to regard the eighty years above mentioned as a
period no longer of promise and preparation but of fulfilment and accomplishment. Furthermore,
the thirty years at the close of the fifteenth century may be taken as one epoch in this climax
of the art, while the first half of the sixteenth forms a second. Within the former falls the
best work of Mantegna, Perugino, Francia, the Bellini, Signorelli, Fra Bartolommeo. To the
latter we may reckon Michael Angelo, Raphael, Giorgione, Correggio, Titian, and Andrea del
Sarto. Lionardo da Vinci, though belonging chronologically to the former epoch, ranks first
among the masters of the latter; and to this also may be given Tintoretto, though his life
extended far beyond it to the last years of the century. We thus obtain, within the period
of eighty years from 1470 to 1550, two subordinate divisions of time, the one including the
last part of the fifteenth century, the other extending over the best years of the sixteenth.

The subdivisions I have just suggested correspond to two distinct stages in the evolution of
art. The painters of the earlier group win our admiration quite as much by their aim as by
their achievement. Their achievement, indeed, is not so perfect but that they still make some
demand upon interpretative sympathy in the student. There is, besides, a sense of reserved
strength in their work. We feel that their motives have not been developed to the utmost, that
their inspiration is not exhausted; that it will be possible for their successors to advance
beyond them on the same path, not realising more consummate excellence in special points, but
combining divers qualities, and reaching absolute freedom.

The painters of the second group display mastery more perfect, range of faculty more all-embracing.
What they design they do; nature and art obey them equally; the resources placed at their command
are employed with facile and unfettered exercise of power. The hand obedient to the brain is
now so expert that nothing further is left to be desired in the expression of the artist's
thought.[197] The student can only hope to penetrate the master's meaning. To imagine a step
further in the same direction is impossible. The full flower of the Italian genius has been
unfolded. Its message to the world in art has been delivered.

Chronology alone would not justify us in drawing these distinctions. What really separates
the two groups is the different degree in which they severally absorbed the spirit and uttered
the message of their age. In the former the Renaissance was still immature, in the latter it
was perfected. Yet all these painters deserve in a true sense to be called its children. Their
common object is art regarded as an independent function, and relieved from the bondage of
technical impediments. In their work the liberty of the modern mind finds its first and noblest
expression. They deal with familiar and time-honoured Christian motives reverently; but they
use them at the same time for the exhibition of pure human beauty. Pagan influences yield them
spirit-stirring inspiration; yet the antique models of style, which proved no less embarrassing
to their successors than Saul's armour was to David, weigh lightly, like a magician's breast-plate,
upon their heroic strength.

Andrea Mantegna was born near Padua in 1431. Vasari says that in his boyhood he herded cattle,
and it is probable that he was the son of a small Lombard farmer. What led him to the study
of the arts we do not know; but that his talents were precociously developed, is proved by
his registration in 1441 upon the books of the painter's guild at Padua. He is there described
as the adopted son of Squarcione. At the age of seventeen he signed a picture with his name.
Studying the casts and drawings collected by Squarcione for his Paduan school, the young Mantegna
found congenial exercise for his peculiar gifts.[198] His early frescoes in the Eremitani at
Padua look as though they had been painted from statues or clay models, carefully selected
for the grandeur of their forms, the nobility of their attitudes, and the complicated beauty
of their drapery. The figures, arranged on different planes, are perfect in their perspective;
the action is indicated by appropriate gestures, and the colouring, though faint and cold,
is scientifically calculated. Yet not a man or woman in these wondrous compositions seems to
live. Well provided with bone and muscle, they have neither blood nor anything suggestive of
the breath of life within them. It is as though Mantegna had been called to paint a people
turned to stone, arrested suddenly amid their various occupations, and preserved for centuries
from injury in some Egyptian solitude of dewless sand.

In spite of this unearthly immobility, the Paduan frescoes exercise a strange and potent spell.
We feel ourselves beneath the sway of a gigantic genius, intent on solving the severest problems
of his art in preparation for the portraiture of some high intellectual abstraction. It should
also be observed that notwithstanding their frigidity and statuesque composure, the pictures
of "S. Andrew" and "S. Christopher" in the chapel of the Eremitani reveal minute study of real
objects. Transitory movements of the body are noted and transcribed with merciless precision;
an Italian hill-side, with its olive trees and winding ways and crown of turrets, forms the
background of one scene; in another the drama is localised amid Renaissance architecture of
the costliest style. Rustic types have been selected for the soldiers, and commonplace details,
down to a patched jerkin or a broken shoe, bear witness to the patience and the observation
of the master. But over all these things the glamour of Medusa's head has fallen, turning them
to stone. We are clearly in the presence of a painter for whom the attractions of nature were
subordinated to the fascinations of science--a man the very opposite, for instance, to Benozzo
Gozzoli. If Mantegna had passed away in early manhood, like Masaccio, his fame would have been
that of a cold and calculating genius labouring after an ideal unrealised except in its dry
formal elements.

The truth is that Mantegna's inspiration was derived from the antique.[199] The beauty of classical
bas-relief entered deep into his soul and ruled his imagination. In later life he spent his
acquired wealth in forming a collection of Greek and Roman antiquities.[200] He was, moreover,
the friend of students, eagerly absorbing the knowledge brought to light by Ciriac of Ancona,
Flavio Biondo, and other antiquaries; and so completely did he assimilate the materials of
scholarship, that the spirit of a Roman seemed to be re-incarnated in him. Thus, independently
of his high value as a painter, he embodies for us in art that sincere passion for the ancient
world which was the dominating intellectual impulse of his age.

The minute learning accumulated in the fifteenth century upon the subject of Roman military
life found noble illustration in his frieze of "Julius Caesar's Triumph."[201] Nor is this
masterpiece a cold display of pedantry. The life we vainly look for in the frescoes of the
Eremitani chapel may be found here--statuesque, indeed, in style, and stately in movement,
but glowing with the spirit of revived antiquity. The processional pomp of legionaries bowed
beneath their trophied arms, the monumental majesty of robed citizens, the gravity of stoled
and veiled priests, the beauty of young slaves, and all the paraphernalia of spoils and wreaths
and elephants and ensigns are massed together with the self-restraint of noble art subordinating
pageantry to rules of lofty composition. What must the genius of the man have been who could
move thus majestically beneath the weight of painfully accumulated erudition, converting an
antiquarian motive into a theme for melodies of line composed in the grave Dorian mood?

By no process can the classic purity of this bas-relief be better understood than by comparing
the original with a transcript made by Rubens from a portion of the "Triumph."[202] The Flemish
painter strives to add richness to the scene by Bacchanalian riot and the sensuality of imperial
Rome. His elephants twist their trunks, and trumpet to the din of cymbals; negroes feed the
flaming candelabra with scattered frankincense; the white oxen of Clitumnus are loaded with
gaudy flowers, and the dancing maidens are dishevelled Maenads. But the rhythmic procession
of Mantegna, modulated to the sound of flutes and soft recorders, carries our imagination back
to the best days and strength of Rome. His priests and generals, captives and choric women,
are as little Greek as they are modern. In them awakes to a new life the spirit-quelling energy
of the republic. The painter's severe taste keeps out of sight the insolence and orgies of
the empire; he conceives Rome as Shakspeare did in "Coriolanus."[203]

In compositions of this type, studied after bas-reliefs and friezes, Mantegna displayed a power
that was unique. Those who have once seen his drawings for Judith with the head of Holofernes,
and for Solomon judging between the two mothers, will never forget their sculpture. The lines
are graven on our memory. When this marble master chose to be tragic, his intensity was terrible.
The designs for a dead Christ carried to the tomb among the weeping Maries, concentrate within
the briefest space the utmost agony; it is as though the very ecstasy of grief had been congealed
and fixed for ever. What, again, he could produce of purely beautiful within the region of
religious art, is shown by his "Madonna of the Victory."[204] No other painter has given to
the soldier saints forms at once so heroic and so chivalrously tender.

With regard to the circumstances of Mantegna's biography, it may be said briefly that, though
of humble birth, he spent the greater portion of his life at Court and in the service of princes.
It was in 1456, after he had distinguished himself by the Paduan frescoes, that he first received
an invitation from the Marquis Lodovico Gonzaga. Of this sovereign I have already had occasion
to speak.[205] Reared by Vittorino da Feltre, to whom his father had committed almost unlimited
authority, Lodovico had early learned to estimate the real advantages of culture. It was now
his object to render his capital no less illustrious by art than by the residence of learned
men. With this view he offered Mantegna a salary of fifteen ducats a month, together with lodging,
corn, and fuel--provided the painter would place his talents at his service. Mantegna accepted
the invitation; but numerous engagements prevented him from transferring his household from
Padua to Mantua until the year 1460. From that date onwards to 1506, when he died, Mantegna
remained attached to the Gonzaga family serving three Marquises in succession, and adorning
their palaces, chapels, and country-seats with frescoes now, alas! almost entirely ruined.
The grants of land and presents he received in addition to his salary, enabled him to build
a villa at Buscoldo, where he resided during the summer, as well as to erect a sumptuous mansion
in the capital.

Between Mantua, Goito, and Buscoldo, Mantegna spent the last forty-six years of his life in
continual employment, broken only by a short visit to Florence in 1466, and another to Bologna
in 1472,[206] and by a longer residence in Rome between the years 1488 and 1490. During the
latter period Innocent VIII. was Pope. He had built a chapel in the Belvedere of the Vatican,
and wished the greatest painter of the day to decorate it. Therefore he wrote to Francesco,
Marquis of Mantua, requesting that he might avail himself of Mantegna's skill. Francesco, though
unwilling to part with his painter in ordinary, thought it unadvisable to disappoint the Pope.
Accordingly he dubbed Mantegna knight, and sent him to Rome. The chapel painted in fresco for
Innocent was ruthlessly destroyed by Pius VI.; and thus the world has lost one of Mantegna's
masterpieces, executed while his genius was at its zenith. On his return to Mantua he finished
the decorations of the Castello of the Gonzaghi, and completed his greatest surviving work,
the "Triumph of Julius Caesar."

By his wife, Nicolosia, the sister of Giovanni and Gentile Bellini, Mantegna had several children,
one of whom, Francesco, adopted painting as a trade. The great artist was by temper arrogant
and haughty; nor could he succeed in living peaceably with any of his neighbours. It appears
that he spent habitually more money than he could well afford, freely indulging his taste for
magnificence, and disbursing large sums in the purchase of curiosities. Long before his death
his estate had been involved in debt; and after his decease, his sons were forced to sell the
pictures in his studio for the payment of pressing creditors. He was buried in Alberti's church
of S. Andrea at Mantua, in a chapel decorated at his own expense. Over the grave was placed
a bronze bust, most noble in modelling and perfect in execution. The broad forehead with its
deeply cloven furrows, the stern and piercing eyes, the large lips compressed with nervous
energy, the massive nose, the strength of jaw and chin, and the superb clusters of the hair
escaping from a laurel-wreath upon the royal head, are such as realise for us our notion of
a Roman in the days of the Republic. Mantegna's own genius has inspired this masterpiece, which
tradition assigns to the medallist Sperando Maglioli. Whoever wrought it, must have felt the
incubation of the mighty painter's spirit, and have striven to express in bronze the character
of his uncompromising art.

Of a different temperament, yet not wholly unlike Mantegna in a certain iron strength of artistic
character, was Luca Signorelli, born about 1441 at Cortona. The supreme quality of Mantegna
was studied purity of outline, severe and heightened style. As Landor is distinguished by concentration
above all the English poets who have made trial of the classic Muse, so Mantegna holds a place
apart among Italian painters because of his stern Roman self-control. Signorelli, on the contrary,
made his mark by boldness, pushing experiment almost beyond the verge of truth, and approaching
Michael Angelo in the hardihood of his endeavour to outdo nature. Vasari says of him, that
"even Michael Angelo imitated the manner of Luca, as every one can see;" and indeed Signorelli
anticipated the greatest master of the sixteenth century, not only in his profound study of
human anatomy, but also in his resolution to express high thought and tragic passion by pure
form, discarding all the minor charms of painting. Trained in the severe school of Piero della
Francesca, he early learned to draw from the nude with boldness and accuracy; and to this point,
too much neglected by his predecessors, he devoted the full powers of his maturity. Anatomy
he practised, according to the custom of those days, in the graveyard or beneath the gibbet.
There is a drawing by him in the Louvre of a stalwart man carrying upon his back the corpse
of a youth. Both are naked. The motive seems to have been taken from some lazar-house. Life-long
study of perspective in its application to the drawing of the figure, made the difficulties
of foreshortening and the delineation of brusque attitude mere child's play to this audacious
genius. The most rapid movement, the most perilous contortion of bodies falling through the
air or flying, he depicted with hard, firmly-traced, unerring outline. If we dare to criticise
the productions of a master so original and so accomplished, all we can say is that Signorelli
revelled almost too wantonly in the display of hazardous posture, and that he sacrificed the
passion of his theme to the display of science.[207] Yet his genius comprehended great and
tragic subjects, and to him belongs the credit in an age of ornament and pedantry of having
made the human body a language for the utterance of all that is most weighty in the thought of man.

A story is told by Vasari which brings Signorelli very close to our sympathy, and enables us
to understand the fascination of pure form he felt so deeply. "It is related of Luca that he
had a son killed at Cortona, a youth of singular beauty in face and person, whom he had tenderly
loved. In his grief the father caused the boy to be stripped naked, and with extraordinary
constancy of soul, uttering no complaint and shedding no tear, he painted the portrait of his
dead son, to the end that he might still be able, through the work of his own hand, to contemplate
that which nature had given him, but which an adverse fortune had taken away." So passionate
and ardent, so convinced of the indissoluble bond between the soul he loved in life and its
dead tenement of clay, and withal so iron-nerved and stout of will, it behoved that man to
be, who undertook in the plenitude of his power, at the age of sixty, to paint upon the walls
of the chapel of S. Brizio at Orvieto the images of Doomsday, Resurrection, Heaven, and Hell.[208]

It is a gloomy chapel in the Gothic cathedral of that forlorn Papal city--gloomy by reason
of bad lighting, but more so because of the terrible shapes with which Signorelli has filled
it[209]. In no other work of the Italian Renaissance, except in the Sistine Chapel, has so
much thought, engaged upon the most momentous subjects, been expressed with greater force by
means more simple and with effect more overwhelming. Architecture, landscape, and decorative
accessories of every kind, the usual padding of quattrocento pictures, have been discarded
from the main compositions. The painter has relied solely upon his power of imagining and delineating
the human form in every attitude, and under the most various conditions. Darting like hawks
or swallows through the air, huddling together to shun the outpoured vials of the wrath of
God, writhing with demons on the floor of Hell, struggling into new life from the clinging
clay, standing beneath the footstool of the Judge, floating with lute and viol on the winds
of Paradise, kneeling in prayer, or clasping "inseparable hands with joy and bliss in overmeasure
for ever"--these multitudes of living beings, angelic, diabolic, bestial, human, crowd the
huge spaces of the chapel walls. What makes the impression of controlling doom the more appalling,
is that we comprehend the drama in its several scenes, while the chief actor, the divine Judge,
at whose bidding the cherubs sound their clarions, and the dead arise, and weal and woe are
portioned to the saved and damned, is Himself unrepresented.[210] We breathe in the presence
of embodied consciences, submitting, like our own, to an unseen inevitable will.

It would be doing Signorelli injustice at Orvieto to study only these great panels. The details
with which he has filled all the vacant spaces above the chapel stalls and round the doorway,
throw new light upon his power. The ostensible motive for this elaborate ornamentation is contained
in the portraits of six poets, who are probably Homer, Virgil, Lucan, Horace, Ovid, and Dante,
il sesto tra cotanto senno.[211] But the portraits themselves, though vigorously conceived
and remarkable for bold foreshortening, are the least part of the whole design. Its originality
consists in the arabesques, medallions, and chiaroscuro bas-reliefs, where the human form,
treated as absolutely plastic, supplies the sole decorative element. The pilasters by the doorway,
for example, are composed, after the usual type of Italian grotteschi, in imitation of antique
candelabra, with numerous stages for the exhibition of the artist's fancies. Unlike the work
of Raphael in the Loggie, these pilasters of Signorelli show no birds or beasts, no flowers
or foliage, fruits or fauns, no masks or sphinxes. They are crowded with naked men--drinking,
dancing, leaning forward, twisting themselves into strange attitudes, and adapting their bodies
to the several degrees of the framework. The same may be said of the arabesques around the
portraits of the poets, where men, women, and children, some complete, some ending in foliage
or in fish-tails, are lavished with a wild and terrible profusion. Hippogriffs and centaurs,
sirens and dolphins, are here used as adjuncts to humanity. Amid this fantastic labyrinth of
twisted forms we find medallions painted in chiaroscuro with subjects taken chiefly from Ovidian
and Dantesque mythology. Here every attitude of men in combat and in motion has been studied
from the nude, and multitudes of figures draped and undraped are compressed into the briefest
compass. All but the human form is sternly eliminated; and the body itself is treated with
a mastery and a boldness that prove Signorelli to have held its varied capabilities firmly
in his brain. He could not have worked out all those postures from the living model. He played
freely with his immense stores of knowledge; but his play was the pastime of a Prometheus.
Each pose, however hazardous, carries conviction with it of sincerity and truth; the life and
liberty of nature reign throughout. From the whole maze of interlaced and wrestling figures
the terrible nature of the artist's genius shines forth. They are almost all strong men in
the prime or past the prime of life, chosen for their salient display of vital structure. Signorelli
was the first, and, with the exception of Michael Angelo, the last painter thus to use the
body, without sentiment, without voluptuousness, without any second intention whatsoever, as
the supreme decorative principle. In his absolute sincerity he made, as it were, a parade of
hard and rugged types, scorning to introduce an element of beauty, whether sensuous or ideal,
that should distract him from the study of the body in and for itself. This distinguishes him
in the arabesques at Orvieto alike from Mantegna and Michael Angelo, from Correggio and Raphael,
from Titian and Paolo Veronese.

This point is so important for its bearing on Renaissance art that I may be permitted to dilate
at greater length on Signorelli's choice of types and treatment of form in general. Having
a special predilection for the human body, he by no means confined himself to monotony in its
presentation. On the contrary, we can trace many distinct grades of corporeal expression. First
comes the abstract nude, illustrated by the "Resurrection" and the arabesques at Orvieto[212].
Contemporary life, with all its pomp of costume and insolence of ruffling youth, is depicted
in the "Fulminati" at Orvieto and in the "Soldiers of Totila" at Monte Oliveto[213]. These
transcripts from the courts of princes and camps of condottieri are invaluable as portraits
of the lawless young men who filled Italy with the noise of their feuds and the violence of
their adventures. They illustrate Matarazzo's Perugian chronicle better than any other Renaissance
pictures; for in frescoes like those of Pinturicchio at Siena the same qualities are softened
to suit the painter's predetermined harmony, whereas Signorelli rejoices in their pure untempered
character[214]. These, then, form a second stage. Third in degree we find the type of highly
idealised adolescence reserved by Signorelli for his angels. All his science and his sympathy
with real life are here subordinated to poetic feeling. It is a mistake to say that these angels
are the young men of Umbria whom he loved to paint in their striped jackets, with the addition
of wings to their shoulders. The radiant beings who tune their citherns on the clouds of Paradise,
or scatter roses for elect souls, could not live and breathe in the fiery atmosphere of sensuous
passions to which the Baglioni were habituated. A grave and solemn sense of beauty animates
these fair male beings, clothed in voluminous drapery, with youthful faces and still earnest
eyes. Their melody, like that of Milton, is severe. Nor are Signorelli's angelic beings of
one uniform type like the angels of Fra Angelico. The athletic cherubs of the "Resurrection,"
breathing their whole strength into the trumpets that awake the dead; the mailed and winged
warriors, keeping guard above the pit of "Hell," that none may break their prison-bars among
the damned; the lute-players of "Paradise," with their almost feminine sobriety of movement;
the flame-breathing seraphs of the day of doom; the "Gabriel" of Volterra, in whom strength
is translated into swiftness:--these are the heralds, sentinels, musicians, executioners, and
messengers of the celestial court; and each class is distinguished by appropriate physical
characteristics. At the other end of the scale, forming a fourth grade, we may mention the
depraved types of humanity chosen for his demons--those greenish, reddish, ochreish fiends
of the "Inferno," whom Signorelli created by exaggerating the more grotesque qualities of the
nude developed in his arabesques. We thus obtain four several degrees of form: the demoniac,
the abstract nude, the adolescent beauty of young men copied from choice models, and the angelic.

Except in his angels, Signorelli was comparatively indifferent to what is commonly considered
beauty. He was not careful to select his models, or to idealise their type. The naked human
body, apart from facial distinction or refinement of form, contented him. Violent contrasts
of light and shadow, accentuating the anatomical structure with rough and angular decision,
give the effect of illustrative diagrams to his studies. Harmony of proportion and the magic
of expression are sacrificed to energy emergent in a powerful physique. Redundant life, in
sinewy limbs, in the proud carriage of the head upon the neck, in the sway of the trunk backward
from the reins, the firmly planted calves and brawny thighs, the thick hair, broad shoulders,
spare flanks, and massive gluteal muscles of a man of twenty-two or upwards, whose growth has
been confined to the development of animal force, was what delighted him. Yet there is no coarseness
or animalism properly so called in his style. He was attracted by the marvellous mechanism
of the human frame--its goodliness regarded as the most highly organised of animate existences.

Owing, perhaps, to this exclusive predilection for organic life, Signorelli was not great as
a colourist. His patches of blues and reds in the frescoes of Monte Oliveto are oppressively
distinct; his use of dull brown for the shading of flesh imparts a disagreeable heaviness to
his best modelled forms; nor did he often attain in his oil pictures to that grave harmony
we admire in his "Last Supper" at Cortona. The world of light and colour was to him a comparatively
untravelled land. It remained for other artists to raise these elements of pictorial expression
to the height reached by Signorelli in his treatment of the nude.

Before quitting the frescoes at Orvieto, some attention should be paid to the medallions spoken
of above, in special relation to the classicism of the earlier Renaissance. Scenes from Dante's
"Purgatorio" and subjects from the "Metamorphoses" of Ovid are treated here in the same key;
but the latter, since they engaged Signorelli's fancy upon Greek mythology, are the more important
for our purpose. Two from the legend of "Orpheus" and two from that of "Proserpine" might be
chosen as typical of the whole series. Mediaeval intensity, curiously at variance with antique
feeling, is discernible throughout. The satellites of Hades are gaunt and sinewy devils, eager
to do violence to Eurydice. Pluto himself drives his jarring car-wheels up through the lava-blocks
and flames of Etna with a fury and a vehemence we seek in vain upon antique sarcophagi. Ceres,
wandering through Sicily in search of her lost daughter, is a gaunt witch with dishevelled
hair, raising frantic hands to tear her cheeks; while the snakes that draw her chariot are
no grave symbols of the germinating corn, but greedy serpents ready to spit fire against the
ravishers of Proserpine. Thus the tranquillity and self-restraint of Greek art yield to a passionate
and trenchant realisation of the actual romance. The most thrilling moments in the legend are
selected for dramatic treatment, grace and beauty being exchanged for vivid presentation. A
whole cycle of human experience separates these medallions from the antique bas-relief at Naples,
where Hermes hands the veiled Eurydice to Orpheus, and all three are calm. That Signorelli,
if he chose to do so, could represent a classic myth with more of classic feeling, is shown
by his picture of "Pan Listening to Olympus"[215]. The nymph, the vineleaf-girdled Faun, and
the two shepherds, all undraped and drawn with subtle feeling for the melodies of line, render
this work one of his most successful compositions.

It would be interesting to compare Signorelli's treatment of the antique with Mantegna's or
Botticelli's. The visions of the pagan world, floating before the mind of all men in the fifteenth
century, found very different interpreters in these three painters--Botticelli adding the quaint
alloy of his own fancy, Signorelli imparting the semi-savagery of a terrible imagination, Mantegna,
with the truest instinct and the firmest touch, confining himself to the processional pageantry
of bas-relief. Yet, were this comparison to be instituted, we could hardly refrain from carrying
it much further. Each great master of the Renaissance had his own relation to classical mythology.
The mystic sympathies of "Leda and the Swan," as imaged severally by Lionardo and Michael Angelo;
Correggio's romantic handling of the myths of "Danaë" and "Io;" Titian's and Tintoretto's rival
pictures of "Bacchus and Ariadne;" Raphael's "Galatea;" Pollajuolo's "Hercules;" the "Europa"
of Veronese; the "Circe" of Dosso Dossi; Palma's "Venus;" Sodoma's "Marriage of Alexander"--all
these, to mention none but pictures familiar to every traveller in Italy, raise for the student
of the classical Revival absorbing questions relative to the influences of pagan myths upon
the modern imagination.

Signorelli was chiefly occupied, during the course of his long career, upon religious pictures;
and the high place he occupies in the history of Renaissance culture is due partly to his free
abandonment of conventional methods in treating sacred subjects. The Uffizzi Gallery contains
a circular "Madonna" by his hand, with a row of naked men for background--the forerunner of
Michael Angelo's famous "Holy Family." So far had art for art's sake already encroached upon
the ecclesiastical domain. To discuss Signorelli's merits as a painter of altar-pieces would
be to extend the space allotted to him far beyond its proper limits. It is not as a religious
artist that he takes his rank, but as having powerfully promoted the rehabilitation of the
body achieved for art by the Renaissance.

Unlike Mantegna, Signorelli never entered the service of a prince, though we have seen that
he executed commissions for Lorenzo de' Medici and Pandolfo Petrucci. He bore a name which,
if not noble, had been more than once distinguished in the annals of Tuscany. Residing at his
native place, Cortona, he there enjoyed the highest reputation, and was frequently elected
to municipal office. Concerning his domestic life very little is known, but what we do know
is derived from an excellent source[216]. His mother was the sister of Lazzaro, great-grandfather
of Giorgio Vasari. In his biography of Signorelli, Vasari relates how, when he was himself
a boy of eight, his illustrious cousin visited the house of the Vasari family at Arezzo; and
hearing from little Giorgio's grammar-master that he spent his time in drawing figures, Luca
turned to the child's father and said, "Antonio, since Giorgio takes after his family, you
must by all means have him taught; for even though he should pay attention to literature as
well, drawing cannot fail to be a source of utility, honour, and recreation to him, as it is
to every man of worth." Luca's kindness deeply impressed the boy, who afterwards wrote the
following description of his personal qualities: "He was a man of the most excellent habits,
sincere and affectionate with his friends, sweet of conversation and amusing in society, above
all things courteous to those who had need of his work, and easy in giving instruction to his
pupils. He lived splendidly, and took delight in dressing handsomely. This excellent disposition
caused him to be always held in highest veneration both in his own city and abroad."

To turn from Signorelli to Perugino is to plunge at once into a very different atmosphere[217].
It is like quitting the rugged gorges of high mountains for a valley of the Southern Alps--still,
pensive, beautiful, and coloured with reflections from an evening sky. Perugino knew exactly
how to represent a certain mood of religious sentiment, blending meek acquiescence with a prayerful
yearning of the impassioned soul. His Madonnas worshipping the infant Jesus in a tranquil Umbrian
landscape, his angels ministrant, his pathetic martyrs with upturned holy faces, his sexless
S. Sebastians and immaculate S. Michaels, display the perfection of art able by colour and
by form to achieve within a narrow range what it desires. What this artist seems to have aimed
at, was to create for the soul amid the pomps and passions of this world a resting-place of
contemplation tenanted by saintly and seraphic beings. No pain comes near the folk of his celestial
city; no longing poisons their repose; they are not weary, and the wicked trouble them no more.
Their cheerfulness is no less perfect than their serenity; like the shades of Hellas, they
have drunk Lethean waters from the river of content, and all remembrance of things sad or harsh
has vanished from their minds. The quietude of holiness expressed in this ideal region was
a legacy to Perugino from earlier Umbrian masters; but his technical supremacy in fresco-painting
and in oils, his correct drawing within certain limits, and his refined sense of colour enabled
him to realise it more completely than his less accomplished predecessors. In his best work
the Renaissance set the seal of absolute perfection upon pietistic art.

We English are fortunate in possessing one of Perugino's sincerest devotional oil pictures[218].
His frescoes of "S. Sebastian" at Panicale, and of the "Crucifixion" at Florence, are tolerably
well known through reproductions[219]; while the "Vision of S. Bernard" at Munich and the "Pietà"
in the Pitti Gallery are familiar to all travelled students of Italian painting. These masterpieces
belong to Perugino's best period, when his inspiration was fresh, and his enthusiasm for artistic
excellence was still unimpaired; and when, as M. Rio thinks, the failure of his faith had not
yet happened. It is only at Perugia, however, in the Sala del Cambio, that we are able to gauge
the extent of his power and to estimate the value of his achievement beyond the pale of strictly
religious themes.

Early in the course of his career Perugino seems to have become contented with a formal repetition
of successful motives, and to have checked the growth of his genius by adhering closely to
a prescribed cycle of effects. The praises of his patrons and the prosperity of his trade proved
to his keen commercial sense that the raised ecstatic eyes, the upturned oval faces, the pale
olive skin, the head inclined upon the shoulder, the thin fluttering hair, the ribands and
the dainty dresses of his holy persons found great favour in Umbrian palaces and convents.
Thenceforward he painted but little else; and when, in the Sala del Cambio, he was obliged
to treat the representative heroes of Greek and Roman story, he adopted the same manner[220].
Leonidas, the lionhearted Spartan, and Cato, the austere Roman, who preferred liberty to life,
bend their mild heads like flowers in Perugino's frescoes, and gather up their drapery in studied
folds with celestial delicacy. Jove is a reproduction of the Eterno Padre, conceived as a benevolent
old man for a conventional painting of the "Trinity;" and Ganymede is a page-boy with the sweet
submissive features of Tobias. Already Perugino had opened a manufactory of pietistic pictures,
and was employing many pupils on his works. He coined money by fixing artificially beautiful
faces upon artificially elegant figures, placing a row of these puppets in a landscape with
calm sky behind them, and calling the composition by the name of some familiar scene. His inspiration
was dead, his invention exhausted; his chief object seemed to be to make his trade thrive.

Perugino will always remain a problem to the psychologist who believes in physiognomy, as well
as to the student of the passionate times in which he lived. His hard unsympathetic features
in the portraits at Perugia and Florence do not belie, but rather win credence for Vasari's
tales about his sordid soul.[221] Local traditions and contemporary rumours, again, give colour
to what Vasari relates about his infidelity; while the criminal records of Florence prove that
he was not over-scrupulous to keep his hands from violence.[222] How could such a man, we ask
ourselves, have endured to pass a long life in the fabrication of devotional pictures? Whence
did he derive the sentiment of masterpieces, for piety only equalled by those of Fra Angelico,
either in his own nature or in the society of a city torn to pieces by the factions of the
Baglioni? How, again, was it possible for an artist who at times touched beauty so ideal, to
be contented with the stencilling by his pupils of conventional figures on canvases to which
he gave his name? Taking these questions separately, we might reply that "there is no art to
find the mind's construction in the face;" that painting in the sixteenth century was a trade
regulated by the demand for particular wares; that men can live among ruffians without sharing
their mood; that the artist and the moral being are separate, and may not be used to interpret
each other. Yet, after giving due weight to such answers, Perugino, being what he was, living
at the time he did, not as a recluse, but as a prosperous impresario of painting, and systematically
devoting his powers to pietistic art, must be for us a puzzle. That the quietism of his highly
artificial style should have been fashionable in Perugia, while the Baglioni were tearing each
other to pieces, and the troops of the Vitelli and the Borgia were trampling upon Umbria, is
one of the most striking paradoxes of an age rich in dramatic contradictions.

It is much to be regretted, with a view to solving the question of Perugino's personality in
relation to his art, that his character does not emerge with any salience from the meagre notices
we have received concerning him, and that we know but little of his private life. Vasari tells
us that he married a very beautiful girl, and that one of his chief pleasures was to see this
wife handsomely dressed at home and abroad. He often decked her out in clothes and jewels with
his own hand. For the rest, we find in Perugino, far more than in either Mantegna or Signorelli,
an instance of the simple Italian craftsman, employing numerous assistants, undertaking contract
work on a large scale, and striking keen bargains with his employers. Both at Florence and
at Perugia he opened a bottega; and by the exercise of his trade as a master-painter, he realised
enough money to buy substantial estates in those cities, as well as in his birthplace.[223]
In all the greatest artworks of the age he took his part. Thus we find him painting in the
Sistine Chapel between 1484 and 1486, treating with the commune of Orvieto for the completion
of the chapel of S. Brizio in 1489, joining in the debate upon the façade of S. Maria del Fiore
in 1491, giving his opinion upon the erection of Michael Angelo's "David" at Florence in 1504,
and competing with Signorelli, Pinturicchio, and Bazzi for the decoration of the Stanze of
the Vatican in 1508. The rising of brighter stars above the horizon during his lifetime somewhat
dimmed his fame, and caused him much disquietude; yet neither Raphael nor Michael Angelo interfered
with the demand for his pictures, which continued to be lively till the very year of his death.
That he was jealous of these younger rivals, appears from the fact that he brought an action
against Michael Angelo for having called his style stupid and antiquated. In the celebrated
phrase cast at him by the blunt and scornful master of a new art-mystery[224], we discern the
abrupt line of division between time-honoured tradition and the maniera moderna of the full
Renaissance. The old Titans had to yield their place before the new Olympian deities of Italian
painting. There is something pathetic in the retirement of the grey-haired Perugino from Rome,
to make way for the victorious Phoebean beauty of the boy Raphael.

The influence of Perugino upon Italian art was powerful though transitory. He formed a band
of able pupils, among whom was the great Raphael; and though Raphael speedily abandoned his
master's narrow footpath through the fields of painting, he owed to Perugino the invaluable
benefit of training in solid technical methods and traditions of pure taste. From none of his
elder contemporaries, with the exception of Fra Bartolommeo, could the young Raphael have learnt
so much that was congenial to his early instincts. What, for example, might have befallen him
if he had worked with Signorelli, it is difficult to imagine; for while nothing is more obvious
on the one hand than Raphael's originality, his strong assimilative bias is scarcely less remarkable.
The time has not yet come to speak of Raphael; nor will space suffice for detailed observations
on his fellow-students in the workshop at Perugia. The place occupied by Perugino in the evolution
of Italian painting is peculiar. In the middle of a positive and worldly age, declining fast
to frigid scepticism and political corruption, he set the final touch of technical art upon
the devotion transmitted from earlier and more enthusiastic centuries. The flower of Umbrian
piety blossomed in the masterpieces of his youth, and faded into dryness in the affectations
of his manhood. Nothing was left on the same line for his successors.

Among these, Bernardo Pinturicchio can here alone be mentioned. A thorough naturalist, though
saturated with the mannerism of the Umbrian school, Pinturicchio was not distracted either
by scientific or ideal aims from the clear and fluent presentation of contemporary manners
and costumes. He is a kind of Umbrian Gozzoli, who brings us here and there in close relation
to the men of his own time, and has in consequence a special value for the student of Renaissance
life. His wall-paintings in the library of the cathedral of Siena are so well preserved that
we need not seek elsewhere for better specimens of the decorative art most highly prized in
the first years of the sixteenth century[225]. These frescoes have a richness of effect and
a vivacity of natural action, which, in spite of their superficiality, render them highly charming.
The life of Æneas Sylvius Piccolomini, Pius II., is here treated like a legend. There is no
attempt at representing the dress of half a century anterior to the painter's date, or at rendering
accurate historic portraiture. Both Pope and Emperor are romantically conceived, and each portion
of the tale is told as though it were a fit in some popular ballad. So much remains of Perugian
affectation as gives a kind of childlike grace to the studied attitudes and many-coloured groups
of elegant young men.

We must always be careful to distinguish the importance of an artist considered as the exponent
of his age from that which he may claim by virtue of some special skill or some peculiar quality
of feeling. The art of Perugino, for example, throws but little light upon the Renaissance
taken as a whole. Intrinsically valuable because of its technical perfection and its purity
of sentiment, it was already in the painter's lifetime superseded by a larger and a grander
manner. The progressive forces of the modern style found their channels outside him. This again
is true of Francesco Raibolini, surnamed Francia from his master in the goldsmith's craft.
Francia is known to Englishmen as one of the most sincerely pious of Christian painters by
his incomparable picture of the "Dead Christ" in our National Gallery. The spirituality that
renders Fra Angelico unintelligible to minds less ecstatically tempered than his own, is not
found in such excess in Francia, nor does his work suffer from the insipidity of Perugino's
affectation. Deep religious feeling is combined with physical beauty of the purest type in
a masterpiece of tranquil grace. A greater degree of naïveté and naturalness compensates for
the inferiority of Francia's to Perugino's supremely perfect handling. This is true of Francia's
numerous pictures at Bologna; where indeed, in order to be rightly known, he should be studied
by all lovers of the quattrocento style in its most delightful moments[226]. For mastery over
oil painting and for charm of colour Francia challenges comparison with what is best in Perugino,
though he did not quite attain the same technical excellence.

One more painter must delay us yet awhile within the limits of the fifteenth century. Bartolommeo
di Paolo del Fattorino, better known as Baccio della Porta or Fra Bartolommeo, forms at Florence
the connecting link between the artists of the earlier Renaissance and the golden age[227].
By chronological reckoning he is nearly a quarter of a century later than Lionardo da Vinci,
and is the exact contemporary of Michael Angelo. As an artist, he has thoroughly outgrown the
quattrocento style, and falls short only by a little of the greatest. In assigning him a place
among the predecessors and precursors of the full Renaissance, I am therefore influenced rather
by the range of subjects he selected, and by the character of his genius, than by calculations
of time or estimate of ability.

Fra Bartolommeo was sent, when nine years old, into the workshop of Cosimo Rosselli, where
he began his artist's life by colour-grinding, sweeping out the shop, and errand-running. It
was in Cosimo's bottega that he made acquaintance with Mariotto Albertinelli, who became his
intimate friend and fellow-worker. In spite of marked differences of character, disagreements
upon the fundamental matters of politics and religion, and not unfrequent quarrels, these men
continued to be comrades through the better part of their joint lives. Baccio was gentle, timid,
yielding, and industrious. Mariotto was wilful, obstinate, inconsequent, and flighty, Baccio
fell under the influence of Savonarola, professed himself a piagnone, and took the cowl of
the Dominicans[228]. Mariotto was a partisan of the Medici, an uproarious pallesco, and a loose
liver, who eventually deserted the art of painting for the calling of an innkeeper. Yet so
sweet was the temper of the Frate, and so firm was the bond of friendship established in boyhood
between this ill-assorted couple, that they did not part company until 1512, three years before
Mariotto's death and five before that of Bartolommeo. During their long association the task
of designing fell upon the Frate, while Albertinelli took his orders and helped to work out
his conceptions. Both were excellent craftsmen and consummate colourists, as is proved by the
pictures executed by each unassisted. Albertinelli's "Salutation" in the Uffizzi yields no
point of grace and vigour to any of his more distinguished coadjutor's paintings.

The great contributions made by Fra Bartolommeo to the art of Italy were in the double region
of composition and colouring. In his justly celebrated fresco of S. Maria Nuova at Florence--a
"Last Judgment" with a Christ enthroned amid a choir of Saints--he exhibited for the first
time a thoroughly scientific scheme of grouping based on geometrical principles. Each part
is perfectly balanced in itself, and yet is necessary to the structure of the whole. The complex
framework may be subdivided into numerous sections no less harmoniously ordered than is the
total scheme to which they are subordinated. Simple figures--the pyramid and the triangle,
upright, inverted, and interwoven like the rhymes in a sonnet--form the basis of the composition.
This system was adhered to by the Frate in all his subsequent works. To what extent it influenced
the style of Raphael, will be afterwards discussed. As a colourist, Fra Bartolommeo was equal
to the best of his contemporaries, and superior to any of his rivals in the school of Florence.
Few painters of any age have combined harmony of tone so perfectly with brilliance and richness.
It is a real joy to contemplate the pure and splendid folds of the white drapery he loved to
place in the foreground of his altar-pieces. Solidity and sincerity distinguish his work in
every detail, while his feeling is remarkable for elevation and sobriety. All that he lacks,
is the boldness of imagination, the depth of passion, and the power of thought, that are indispensable
to genius of the highest order. Gifted with a sympathetic and a pliant, rather than a creative
and self-sustained nature, he was sensitive to every influence. Therefore we find him learning
much in his youth from Lionardo, deriving a fresh impulse from Raphael, and endeavouring in
his later life, after a visit to Rome in 1514, to "heighten his style," as the phrase went,
by emulating Michael Angelo. The attempt to tread the path of Buonarroti was a failure. What
Fra Bartolommeo sought to gain in majesty, he lost in charm. His was essentially a pure and
gracious manner, upon which sublimity could not be grafted. The gentle soul, who dropped his
weapon when the convent of S. Marco was besieged by the Compagnacci[229], and who vowed, if
heaven preserved him in the tumult, to become a monk, had none of Michael Angelo's terribilità.
Without possessing some share of that spirit, it was vain to aggrandise the forms and mass
the raiment of his prophets in imitation of the Sistine.

Nature made Fra Bartolommeo the painter of adoration[230]. His masterpiece at Lucca--the "Madonna
della Misericordia"--is a poem of glad worship, a hymn of prayerful praise. Our Lady stands
elate, between earth and heaven, appealing to her Son for mercy. At her footstool are her suppliants,
the men and women and little children of the city she has saved. The peril is past. Salvation
has been won; and the song of thanksgiving ascends from all those massed and mingled forms
in unison. Not less truly is the great unfinished picture of "Madonna surrounded by the Patron
Saints of Florence" a poem of adoration[231]. This painting was ordered by the Gonfalonier
Piero Soderini, the man who dedicated Florence to Christ as King. He intended it to take its
place in the hall of the Consiglio Grande, where Michael Angelo and Lionardo gained their earliest
laurels. Before it could be finished, the Republic perished.[232] "That," says Rio, "is the
reason why he left but an imperfect work--for those at least who are only struck by what is
wanting in it. Others will at first regard it with the interest attaching to unfinished poems,
interrupted by the jailer's call or by the stern voice of the executioner. Then they will study
it in all its details, in order to appreciate its beauties; and that appreciation will be the
more perfect in proportion as a man is the more fully penetrated with its dominant idea, and
with the attendant circumstances that bring this home to him. It is not against an abstract
enemy that the intercession of the celestial powers is here invoked: it is not by a caprice
of the painter or his patron that, in the group of central figures, S. Anne attracts attention
before the Holy Virgin, not only by reason of her pre-eminence, but also through the intensity
of her heavenward prayer, and again through her beauty, which far surpasses that of nearly
all "Madonnas" painted by Fra Bartolommeo."[233] But artist and patron had indeed good reason,
in this crisis of the Commonwealth, to select as the most eminent advocate for Florence at
the bar of Heaven that saint, on whose day, July 26, 1343, had been celebrated the emancipation
of the city from its servitude to Walter of Brienne.

The great event of Fra Bartolommeo's life was the impression produced on him by Savonarola.[234]
Having listened to the Dominican's terrific denunciations of worldliness and immorality, he
carried his life studies to the pyre of vanities, resolved to assume the cowl, and renounced
his art. Between 1499, when he was engaged in painting the "Last Judgment" of S. Maria Nuova,
and 1506, he is supposed never to have touched the pencil. When he resumed it Savonarola had
been burned for heresy, and Fra Bartolommeo was a brother in his convent of S. Marco. Savonarola
has sometimes been described as an iconoclast, obstinately hostile to the fine arts. This is
by no means a true account of the crusade he carried on against the pagan sensuality of his
contemporaries. He desired that art should remain the submissive handmaid of the Church and
the willing servant of pure morality. While he denounced the heathenism of the style in vogue
at Florence, and forbade the study of the nude, he strove to encourage religious painting,
and established a school for its exercise in the cloister of S. Marco. It was in this monastic
bottega that Fra Bartolommeo, in concert with his friend Albertinelli, worked for the benefit
of the convent after the year 1506. The reforms Savonarola attempted in the fine arts as in
manners, by running counter to the tendencies of the Renaissance at a moment when society was
too corrupt to be regenerated, and the passion for antiquity was too powerful to be restrained,
proved of necessity ineffective. It may further be said that the limitations he imposed would
have been fatal to the free development of art if they had been observed.

Several painters, besides Fra Baccio, submitted to Savonarola's influence. Among these the
most distinguished were the pure and gentle Lorenzo di Credi and Sandro Botticelli, who, after
the great preacher's death, is said to have abandoned painting. Neither Lorenzo di Credi nor
Fra Baccio possessed a portion of the prophet's fiery spirit. Had that but found expression
in their cloistral pictures, one of the most peculiar and characteristic flowers of art the
world has ever known, would then have bloomed in Florence. The mantle of Savonarola, however,
if it fell upon any painter, fell on Michael Angelo, and we must seek an echo of the friar's
thunders in the Sistine Chapel. Fra Bartolommeo was too tender and too timid. The sublimities
of tragic passion lay beyond his scope. Though I have ventured to call him the painter of adoration,
he did not feel even this movement of the soul with the intensity of Fra Angelico. In the person
of S. Dominic kneeling beneath the cross Fra Angelico painted worship as an ecstasy, wherein
the soul goes forth with love and pain and yearning beyond any power of words or tears or music
to express what it would utter. To these heights of the ascetic ideal Fra Bartolommeo never
soared. His sobriety bordered upon the prosaic.

We have now reached the great age of the Italian Renaissance, the age in which, not counting
for the moment Venice, four arch-angelic natures gathered up all that had been hitherto achieved
in art since the days of Pisano and Giotto, adding such celestial illumination from the sunlight
of their inborn genius that in them the world for ever sees what art can do. Lionardo da Vinci
was born in Valdarno in 1452, and died in France in 1519. Michael Angelo Buonarroti was born
at Caprese, in the Casentino, in 1475, and died at Borne in 1564, having outlived the lives
of his great peers by nearly half a century. Raphael Santi was born at Urbino in 1483, and
died in Rome in 1520. Antonio Allegri was born at Correggio in 1494, and died there in 1534.
To these four men, each in his own degree and according to his own peculiar quality of mind,
the fulness of the Renaissance, in its power and freedom, was revealed. They entered the inner
shrine, where dwelt the spirit of their age, and bore to the world without the message each
of them had heard. In their work posterity still may read the meaning of that epoch, differently
rendered according to the difference of gifts in each consummate artist, but comprehended in
its unity by study of the four together. Lionardo is the wizard or diviner; to him the Renaissance
offers her mystery and lends her magic. Raphael is the Phoebean singer; to him the Renaissance
reveals her joy and dowers him with her gift of melody. Correggio is the Ariel or Faun; he
has surprised laughter upon the face of the universe, and he paints this laughter in ever-varying
movement. Michael Angelo is the prophet and Sibylline seer; to him the Renaissance discloses
the travail of her spirit; him she endues with power; he wrests her secret, voyaging, like
an ideal Columbus, the vast abyss of thought alone. In order that this revelation of the Renaissance
in painting should be complete, it is necessary to add a fifth power to these four--that of
the Venetian masters, who are the poets of carnal beauty, the rhetoricians of mundane pomp,
the impassioned interpreters of all things great and splendid in the pageant of the outer world.
As Venice herself, by type of constitution and historical development, remained sequestered
from the rest of Italy, so her painters demand separate treatment.[235] It is enough, therefore,
for the present to remember that without the note they utter the chord of the Renaissance lacks
its harmony.

Lionardo, the natural son of Messer Pietro, notary of Florence and landed proprietor at Vinci,
was so beautiful of person that no one, says Vasari, has sufficiently extolled his charm; so
strong of limb that he could bend an iron ring or horse-shoe between his fingers; so eloquent
of speech that those who listened to his words were fain to answer "Yes" or "No" as he thought
fit. This child of grace and persuasion was a wonderful musician. The Duke of Milan sent for
him to play upon his lute and improvise Italian canzoni. The lute he carried was of silver,
fashioned like a horse's head, and tuned according to acoustic laws discovered by himself.
Of the songs he sang to its accompaniment none have been preserved. Only one sonnet remains
to show of what sort was the poetry of Lionardo, prized so highly by the men of his own generation.
This, too, is less remarkable for poetic beauty than for sober philosophy expressed with singular
brevity of phrase.[236]

This story of Da Vinci's lute might be chosen as a parable of his achievement. Art and science
were never separated in his work; and both were not unfrequently subservient to some fanciful
caprice, some bizarre freak of originality. Curiosity and love of the uncommon ruled his nature.
By intuition and by persistent interrogation of nature he penetrated many secrets of science;
but he was contented with the acquisition of knowledge. Once found, he had but little care
to distribute the results of his investigations; at most he sought to use them for purposes
of practical utility.[237] Even in childhood he is said to have perplexed his teachers by propounding
arithmetical problems. In his maturity he carried anatomy further than Delia Torre; he invented
machinery for water-mills and aqueducts; he devised engines of war, discovered the secret of
conical rifle-bullets, adapted paddle-wheels to boats, projected new systems of siege artillery,
investigated the principles of optics, designed buildings, made plans for piercing mountains,
raising churches, connecting rivers, draining marshes, clearing harbours.[238] There was no
branch of study whereby nature through the effort of the inquisitive intellect might be subordinated
to the use of man, of which he was not master. Nor, richly gifted as was Lionardo, did he trust
his natural facility. His patience was no less marvellous than the quickness of his insight.
He lived to illustrate the definition of genius as the capacity for taking infinite pains.

While he was a boy, says Vasari, Lionardo modelled in terra-cotta certain heads of women smiling.
This was in the workshop of Verocchio, who had already fixed a smile on David's face in bronze.
When an old man, he left "Mona Lisa" on the easel not quite finished, the portrait of a subtle,
shadowy, uncertain smile. This smile, this enigmatic revelation of a movement in the soul,
this seductive ripple on the surface of the human personality, was to Lionardo a symbol of
the secret of the world, an image of the universal mystery. It haunted him all through his
life, and innumerable were the attempts he made to render by external form the magic of this
fugitive and evanescent charm.

Through long days he would follow up and down the streets of Florence or of Milan beautiful
unknown faces, learning them by heart, interpreting their changes of expression, reading the
thoughts through the features. These he afterwards committed to paper. We possess many such
sketches--a series of ideal portraits, containing each an unsolved riddle that the master read;
a procession of shadows, cast by reality, that, entering the camera lucida of the artist's
brain, gained new and spiritual quality.[239] In some of them his fancy seems to be imprisoned
in the labyrinths of hair; in others the eyes deep with feeling or hard with gemlike brilliancy
have caught it, or the lips that tell and hide so much, or the nostrils quivering with momentary
emotion. Beauty, inexpressive of inner meaning, must, we conceive, have had but slight attraction
for him. We do not find that he drew "a fair naked body" for the sake of its carnal charm;
his hasty studies of the nude are often faulty, mere memoranda of attitude and gesture. The
human form was interesting to him either scientifically or else as an index to the soul. Yet
he felt the influence of personal loveliness His favourite pupil Salaino was a youth "of singular
grace, with curled and waving hair, a feature of personal beauty by which Lionardo was always
greatly pleased." Hair, the most mysterious of human things, the most manifold in form and
hue, snakelike in its subtlety for the entanglement of souls, had naturally supreme attractiveness
for the magician of the arts.

With like energy Lionardo bent himself to divine the import of ugliness. Whole pages of his
sketch-book are filled with squalid heads of shrivelled crones and ghastly old men--with idiots,
goîtred cretins, criminals, and clowns. It was not that he loved the horrible for its own sake;
but he was determined to seize character, to command the gamut of human physiognomy from ideal
beauty down to forms bestialised by vice and disease. The story related by Giraldi concerning
the head of Judas in the "Cenacolo" at Milan, sufficiently illustrates the method of Lionardo
in creating types and the utility of such caricatures as his notebooks contain.[240]

It is told that he brought into his room one day a collection of reptiles--lizards, newts,
toads, vipers, efts--all creatures that are loathsome to the common eye. These, by the magic
of imagination, he combined into a shape so terrible that those who saw it shuddered. Medusa's
snake-enwoven head exhaling poisonous vapour from the livid lips; Leda, swanlike beside her
swan lover; Chimaera, in whom many natures mingled and made one; the conflict of a dragon and
a lion; S. John conceived not as a prophet but as a vine-crowned Faun, the harbinger of joy:--over
pictorial motives of this kind, attractive by reason of their complexity or mystery, he loved
to brood; and to this fascination of a sphinx-like charm we owe some of his most exquisite
drawings. Lionardo more than any other artist who has ever lived (except perhaps his great
predecessor Leo Battista Alberti) felt the primal sympathies that bind men to the earth, their
mother, and to living things, their brethren.[241] Therefore the borderland between humanity
and nature allured him with a spell half aesthetic and half scientific. In the dawn of Hellas
this sympathetic apprehension of the world around him would have made him a supreme mythopoet.
In the dawn of the modern world curiosity claimed the lion's share of his genius: nor can it
be denied that his art suffered by this division of interests. The time was not yet come for
accurate physiological investigation, or for the true birth of the scientific spirit; and in
any age it would have been difficult for one man to establish on a sound basis discoveries
made in so many realms as those explored by Lionardo. We cannot, therefore, but regret that
he was not more exclusively a painter. If, however, he had confined his activity to the production
of works equal to the "Cenacolo," we should have missed the most complete embodiment in one
personality of the twofold impulses of the Renaissance and of its boundless passion for discovery.

Lionardo's turn for physical science led him to study the technicalities of art with fervent
industry. Whatever his predecessors had acquired in the knowledge of materials, the chemistry
of colours, the mathematics of composition, the laws of perspective, and the illusions of chiaroscuro,
he developed to the utmost. To find a darker darkness and a brighter brightness than had yet
been shown upon the painter's canvas; to solve problems of foreshortening; to deceive the eye
by finely graduated tones and subtle touches; to submit the freest play of form to simple figures
of geometry in grouping, were among the objects he most earnestly pursued. At the same time
his deep feeling for all things that have life, gave him new power in the delineation of external
nature. The branching of flower-stems, the outlines of fig-leaves, the attitudes of beasts
and birds in motion, the arching of the fan-palm, were rendered by him with the same consummate
skill as the dimple on a cheek or the fine curves of a young man's lips.[242] Wherever he perceived
a difficulty, he approached and conquered it. Love, which is the soul of art--Love, the bondslave
of Beauty and the son of Poverty by Craft--led him to these triumphs. He used to buy caged
birds in the marketplace that he might let them loose. He was attached to horses, and kept
a sumptuous stable; and these he would draw in eccentric attitudes, studying their anatomy
in detail for his statue of Francesco Sforza.[243] In the "Battle of the Standard," known to
us only by a sketch of Rubens,[244] he gave passions to the horse--not human passion, nor yet
merely equine--but such as horses might feel when placed upon a par with men. In like manner
the warriors are fiery with bestial impulses--leonine fury, wolfish ferocity, fox-like cunning.
Their very armour takes the shape of monstrous reptiles. To such an extent did the interchange
of human and animal properties haunt Lionardo's fancy.

From what has been already said we shall be better able to understand Lionardo's love of the
bizarre and grotesque. One day a vine-dresser brought him a very curious lizard. The master
fitted it with wings injected with quicksilver to give them motion as the creature crawled.
Eyes, horns, and a beard, a marvellous dragon's mask, were placed upon its head. This strange
beast lived in a cage, where Lionardo tamed it; but no one, says Vasari, dared so much as to
look at it.[245] On quaint puzzles and perplexing schemes he mused a good part of his life
away. At one time he was for making wings to fly with; at another he invented ropes that should
uncoil, strand by strand; again, he devised a system of flat corks, by means of which to walk
on water.[246] One day, after having scraped the intestines of a sheep so thin that he could
hold them in the hollow of his hand, he filled them with wind from a bellows, and blew and
blew until the room was choked, and his visitors had to run into corners. Lionardo told them
that this was a proper symbol of genius.

Such stories form what may be called the legend of Lionardo's life; and some of them seem simple,
others almost childish.[247] They illustrate what is meant when we call him the wizard of the
Renaissance. Art, nature, life, the mysteries of existence, the infinite capacity of human
thought, the riddle of the world, all that the Greeks called Pan, so swayed and allured him
that, while he dreamed and wrought and never ceased from toil, he seemed to have achieved but
little. The fancies of his brain were, perhaps, too subtle and too fragile to be made apparent
to the eyes of men. He was wont, after years of labour, to leave his work still incomplete,
feeling that he could not perfect it as he desired: yet even his most fragmentary sketches
have a finish beyond the scope of lesser men. "Extraordinary power," says Vasari, "was in his
case conjoined with remarkable facility, a mind of regal boldness and magnanimous daring."
Yet he was constantly accused of indolence and inability to execute.[248] Often and often he
made vast preparations and accomplished nothing. It is well known how the Prior of S. Maria
delle Grazie complained that Lionardo stood for days looking at his fresco, and for weeks never
came near it; how the monks of the Annunziata at Florence were cheated out of their painting,
for which elaborate designs had yet been made; how Leo X., seeing him mix oils with varnish
to make a new medium, exclaimed, "Alas! this man will do nothing; he thinks of the end before
he makes a beginning." A good answer to account for the delay was always ready on the painter's
lips, as that the man of genius works most when his hands are idlest; Judas, sought in vain
through all the thieves' resorts in Milan, is not found; I cannot hope to see the face of Christ
except in Paradise. Again, when an equestrian statue of Francesco Sforza had been modelled
in all its parts, another model was begun because Da Vinci would fain show the warrior triumphing
over a fallen foe.[249] The first motive seemed to him tame; the second was unrealisable in
bronze. "I can do anything possible to man," he wrote to Lodovico Sforza, "and as well as any
living artist either in sculpture or painting." But he would do nothing as taskwork, and his
creative brain loved better to invent than to execute.[250] "Of a truth," continues his biographer,
"there is good reason to believe that the very greatness of his most exalted mind, aiming at
more than could be effected, was itself an impediment; perpetually seeking to add excellence
to excellence and perfection to perfection. This was without doubt the true hindrance, so that,
as our Petrarch has it, the work was retarded by desire." At the close of that cynical and
positive century, the spirit whereof was so well expressed by Cosimo de' Medici,[251] Lionardo
set before himself aims infinite instead of finite. His designs of wings to fly with symbolise
his whole endeavour. He believed in solving the insoluble; and nature had so richly dowered
him in the very dawntime of discovery, that he was almost justified in this delusion. Having
caught the Proteus of the world, he tried to grasp him; but the god changed shape beneath his
touch. Having surprised Silenus asleep, he begged from him a song; but the song Silenus sang
was so marvellous in its variety, so subtle in its modulations, that Lionardo could do no more
than recall scattered phrases. His Proteus was the spirit of the Renaissance. The Silenus from
whom he forced the song was the double nature of man and of the world.

By ill chance it happened that Lionardo's greatest works soon perished. His cartoon at Florence
disappeared. His model for Sforza's statue was used as a target by French bowmen. His "Last
Supper" remains a mere wreck in the Convent delle Grazie. Such as it is, blurred by ill-usage
and neglect, more blurred by impious re-painting, that fresco must be seen by those who wish
to understand Da Vinci. It has well been called the compendium of all his studies and of all
his writings; and, chronologically, it is the first masterpiece of the perfected Renaissance.[252]
Other painters had represented the Last Supper as a solemn prologue to the Passion, or as the
mystical inauguration of the greatest Christian sacrament.[253] But none had dared to break
the calm of the event by a dramatic action. The school of Giotto, Fra Angelico, Ghirlandajo,
Perugino, even Signorelli, remained within the sphere of symbolical suggestion; and their work
gained in dignity what it lost in intensity. Lionardo combined both. He undertook to paint
a moment, to delineate the effect of a single word upon twelve men seated at a table, and to
do this without sacrificing the tranquillity demanded by ideal art, and without impairing the
divine majesty of Him from whose lips that word has fallen. The time has long gone by for detailed
criticism or description of a painting known to everybody. It is enough to observe that the
ideal representation of a dramatic moment, the life breathed into each part of the composition,
the variety of the types chosen to express varieties of character, and the scientific distribution
of the twelve Apostles in four groups of three around the central Christ, mark the appearance
of a new spirit of power and freedom in the arts. What had hitherto been treated with religious
timidity, with conventional stiffness, or with realistic want of grandeur, was now humanised
and at the same time transported into a higher intellectual region; and though Lionardo discrowned
the Apostles of their aureoles, he for the first time in the history of painting created a
Christ not unworthy to be worshipped as the praesens Deus. We know not whether to admire most
the perfection of the painter's art or his insight into spiritual things.[254]

If we are forced to feel that, with Da Vinci, accomplishment fell short of power and promise,
the case is very different with Raphael. In him there was no perplexity, no division of interests.
He was fascinated by no insoluble mystery and absorbed by no seductive problems. His faculty
and his artistic purpose were exactly balanced, adequate, and mutually supporting. He saw by
intuition what to do, and he did it without let or hindrance, exercising from his boyhood till
his early death an unimpeded energy of pure productiveness. Like Mozart, to whom he bears in
many respects a remarkable resemblance, Raphael was gifted with inexhaustible fertility and
with unwearied industry. Like Mozart, again, he had a nature which converted everything to
beauty. Thought, passion, emotion, became in his art living melody. We almost forget his strength
in admiration of his grace; the travail of his intellect is hidden by the serenity of his style.
There is nothing over-much in any portion of his work, no sense of effort, no straining of
a situation, not even that element of terror needful to the true sublime. It is as though the
spirit of young Greece had lived in him again, purifying his taste to perfection and restraining
him from the delineation of things stern or horrible.

Raphael found in this world nothing but its joy, and communicated to his ideal the beauty of
untouched virginity. Brescia might be sacked with sword and flame. The Baglioni might hew themselves
to pieces in Perugia. The plains of Ravenna might flow with blood. Urbino might change masters
and obey the viperous Duke Valentino. Raphael, meanwhile, working through his short May-life
of less than twenty [Handwritten: 40] years, received from nature and from man a message that
was harmony unspoiled by one discordant note. His very person was a symbol of his genius. Lionardo
was beautiful but stately, with firm lips and penetrating glance; he conquered by the magnetism
of an incalculable personality. The loveliness of Raphael was fair and flexible, fascinating
not by power or mystery, but by the winning charm of open-hearted sweetness. To this physical
beauty, rather delicate than strong, he united spiritual graces of the most amiable nature.
He was gentle, docile, modest, ready to oblige, free from jealousy, binding all men to him
by his cheerful courtesy.[255] In morals he was pure. Indeed, judged by the lax standard of
those times, he might be called almost immaculate. His intellectual capacity, in all that concerned
the art of painting, was unbounded; but we cannot place him among the many-sided heroes of
the Renaissance. What he attempted in sculpture, though elegant, is comparatively insignificant;
and the same may be said about his buildings. As a painter he was capable of comprehending
and expressing all things without excess or sense of labour. Of no other artist do we feel
that he was so instinctively, unerringly right in what he thought and did.

Among his mental faculties the power of assimilation seems to have been developed to an extraordinary
degree. He learned the rudiments of his art in the house of his father Santi at Urbino, where
a Madonna is still shown--the portrait of his mother, with a child, perhaps the infant Raphael,
upon her lap. Starting, soon after his father's death, as a pupil of Perugino, he speedily
acquired that master's manner so perfectly that his earliest works are only to be distinguished
from Perugino's by their greater delicacy, spontaneity, and inventiveness. Though he absorbed
all that was excellent in the Peruginesque style, he avoided its affectations, and seemed to
take departure for a higher flight from the most exquisite among his teacher's early paintings.
Later on, while still a lad, he escaped from Umbrian conventionality by learning all that was
valuable in the art of Masaccio and Fra Bartolommeo. To the latter master, himself educated
by the influence of Lionardo, Raphael owed more, perhaps, than to any other of his teachers.
The method of combining figures in masses, needful to the general composition, while they preserve
a subordinate completeness of their own, had been applied with almost mathematical precision
by the Frate in his fresco at S. Maria Nuova.[256] It reappears in all Raphael's work subsequent
to his first visit to Florence[257] (1504-1506). So great, indeed, is the resemblance of treatment
between the two painters that we know not well which owed the other most. Many groups of women
and children in the Stanze, for example--especially in the "Miracle of Bolsena" and the "Heliodorus"--seem
almost identical with Fra Bartolommeo's "Madonna della Misericordia" at Lucca. Finally, when
Raphael settled in Rome, he laid himself open to the influence of Michael Angelo, and drank
in the classic spirit from the newly discovered antiques. Here at last it seemed as though
his native genius might suffer from contact with the potent style of his great rival; and there
are many students of art who feel that Raphael's later manner was a declension from the divine
purity of his early pictures. There is, in fact, a something savouring of overbloom in the
Farnesina frescoes, as though the painter's faculty had been strained beyond its natural force.
Muscles are exaggerated to give the appearance of strength, and open mouths are multiplied
to indicate astonishment and action. These faults may be found even in the Cartoons. Yet who
shall say that Raphael's power was on the decline, or that his noble style was passing into
mannerism, after studying both the picture of the "Transfiguration" and the careful drawings
from the nude prepared for this last work?

So delicate was the assimilative tendency in Raphael, that what he learned from all his teachers,
from Perugino, Fra Bartolommeo, Masaccio, Da Vinci, Michael Angelo, and the antique, was mingled
with his own style without sacrifice of individuality. Inferior masters imitated him, and passed
their pictures off upon posterity as Raphael's; but to mistake a genuine piece of his painting
for the performance of another is almost impossible. Each successive step he made was but a
liberation of his genius, a stride toward the full expression of the beautiful he saw and served.
He was never an eclectic. The masterpieces of other artists taught him how to comprehend his
own ideal.

Raphael is not merely a man, but a school. Just as in his genius he absorbed and comprehended
many diverse styles, so are many worthy craftsmen included in his single name. Fresco-painters,
masters of the easel, workmen in mosaic and marquetrie, sculptors, builders, arras-weavers,
engravers, decorators of ceilings and of floors, all laboured under his eye, receiving designs
from, his hand, and executing what was called thereafter by his name.[258] It was thus partly
by his facility and energy, partly by the use he made of other men, that Raphael was able to
achieve so much. In the Vatican he covered the walls and ceilings of the Stanze with historical
and symbolical frescoes that embrace the whole of human knowledge. The cramping limits of ecclesiastical
tradition are transcended. The synod of the antique sages finds a place beside the synod of
the Fathers and the company of Saints. Parnassus and the allegory of the virtues front each
other. The legend of Marsyas and the mythus of the Fall are companion pictures. A new catholicity,
a new orthodoxy of the beautiful, appears. The Renaissance in all its breadth and liberality
of judgment takes ideal form. Nor is there any sense of discord; for the genius of Raphael
views both revelations, Christian and pagan, from a point of view of art above them. To his
pure and unimpeded faculty the task of translating motives so diverse into mutually concordant
shapes was easy. On the domed ceilings of the Loggie he painted sacred history in a series
of exquisitely simple compositions, known as Raphael's Bible. The walls and pilasters were
adorned with arabesques that anticipated the discovery of Pompeii, and surpassed the best of
Roman frescoes in variety and freedom. With his own hands he coloured the incomparable "Triumph
of Galatea" in Agostino Chigi's villa on the Tiber, while his pupils traced the legend of Cupid
and Psyche from his drawings on the roof of the great banquet hall. Remaining within the circuit
of Rome, we may turn from the sibyls of S. Maria della Pace to the genii of the planets in
S. Maria del Popolo, from the "Violin-player" of the Sciarra palace to the "Transfiguration"
in the Vatican: wherever we go, we find the masterpieces of this youth, so various in conception,
so equal in performance. And then, to think that the palaces and picture-galleries of Europe
are crowded with his easel-pictures, that his original drawings display a boundless store of
prodigal inventive creativeness, that the Cartoons, of which England is proud, are alone enough
to found a mighty master's fame!

The vast mass of Raphael's works is by itself astounding. The accuracy of their design and
the perfection of their execution are literally overwhelming to the imagination, that attempts
to realise the conditions of his short life. There is nothing, or but very little, of rhetoric
in all this world of pictures. The brain has guided the hand throughout, and the result is
sterling poetry. The knowledge, again, expressed in many of his frescoes is so thorough that
we wonder whether in his body lived again the soul of some accomplished sage. How, for example,
did he appropriate the history of philosophy, set forth so luminously in the "School of Athens,"
that each head, each gesture, is the epitome of some system? Fabio Calvi may, indeed, have
supplied him with serviceable notes on Greek philosophy. But to Raphael alone belongs the triumph
of having personified the dry elements of learning in appropriate living forms. The same is
true of the "Parnassus," and, in a less degree, of the "Disputa." To the physiognomist these
frescoes will always be invaluable. The "Heliodorus," the "Miracle of Bolsena," and the Cartoons,
display a like faculty applied with more dramatic purpose. Passion and action take the place
of representative ideas; but the capacity for translating into perfect human form what has
first been intellectually apprehended by the artist, is the same.

If, after estimating the range of thought revealed in this portion of Raphael's work, we next
consider the labour of the mind involved in the distribution of so many multitudes of beautiful
and august human figures, in the modelling of their drapery, the study of their expression,
and their grouping into balanced compositions, we may form some notion of the magnitude of
Raphael's performance. It is, indeed, probable that all attempts at reflective analysis of
this kind do injustice to the spontaneity of the painter's method. Yet, even supposing that
the "Miraculous Draught of Fishes" or the "School of Athens" were seen by him as in a vision,
this presumption will increase our wonder at the imagination which could hold so rich a store
of details ready for immediate use. That Raphael paid the most minute attention to the details
of his work, is shown by the studies made for these two subjects, and by the drawings for the
"Transfiguration." A young man bent on putting forth his power the first time in a single picture
that should prove his mastery, could not have laboured with more diligence than Raphael at
the height of his fame and in full possession of his matured faculty.

When, furthermore, we take into account the variety of Raphael's work, we arrive at a new point
of wonder. The drawing of "Alexander's Marriage with Roxana," the "Temptation of Adam by Eve,"
and the "Massacre of the Innocents," engraved by Marc Antonio, are unsurpassed not only as
compositions, but also as studies of the nude in chosen attitudes, powerfully felt and nobly
executed. In these designs, which he never used for painting, the same high style is successively
applied to a pageant, an idyll, and a drama.[259] The rapture of Greek art in its most youthful
moment has never been recaptured by a modern painter with more force and fire of fancy than
in the "Galatea." The tenderness of Christian feeling has found no more exalted expression
than in the multitudes of the Madonnas, one more lovely than another, like roses on a tree
in June, from the maidenly "Madonna del Gran' Duca" to the celestial vision of the San Sisto,
that sublimest lyric of the art of Catholicity.[260] It is only by hurrying through a list
like this that we can appreciate the many-sided perfection of Raphael's accomplishment. How,
lastly, was it possible that this young painter should have found the time to superintend the
building of S. Peter's, and to form a plan for excavating Rome in its twelve ancient regions?[261]

When Lomazzo assigned emblems to the chief painters of the Renaissance, he gave to Michael
Angelo the dragon of contemplation, and to Mantegna the serpent of sagacity. For Raphael, by
a happier instinct, he reserved man, the microcosm, the symbol of powerful grace, incarnate
intellect. This quaint fancy of the Milanese critic touches the truth. What distinguishes the
whole work of Raphael, is its humanity in the double sense of the humane and human. Phoebus,
as imagined by the Greeks, was not more radiant, more victorious by the marvel of his smile,
more intolerant of things obscene or ugly. Like Apollo chasing the Eumenides from his Delphian
shrine, Raphael will not suffer his eyes to fall on what is loathsome or horrific. Even sadness
and sorrow, tragedy and death, take loveliness from him. And here it must be mentioned that
he shunned stern and painful subjects. He painted no martyrdom, no "Last Judgment," and no
"Crucifixion," if we except the little early picture belonging to Lord Dudley.[262] His men
and women are either glorious with youth or dignified in hale old age. Touched by his innocent
and earnest genius, mankind is once more gifted with the harmony of intellect and flesh and
feeling, that belonged to Hellas. Instead of asceticism, Hellenic temperance is the virtue
prized by Raphael. Over his niche in the Temple of Fame might be written: "I have said ye are
gods;"--for the children of men in his ideal world are divinized. The godlike spirit of man
is all in all. Happy indeed was the art that by its limitations and selections could thus early
express the good news of the Renaissance; while in the spheres of politics and ethics, science
and religion, we are still far from having learned its lesson.

Correggio is the Faun or Ariel of Renaissance painting. Turning to him from Raphael, we are
naturally first struck by the affinities and differences between them. Both drew from their
study of the world the elements of joy which it contains; but the gladness of Correggio was
more sensuous than that of Raphael; his intellectual faculties were less developed; his rapture
was more tumultuous and Bacchantic. Like Raphael, Correggio died young; but his brief life
was spent in comparative obscurity and solitude. Far from the society of scholars and artists,
ignorant of courts, unpatronised by princes, he wrought for himself alone the miracle of brightness
and of movement that delights us in his frescoes and his easel-pictures.

    Like a poet hidden
      In the light of thought,
    Singing hymns unbidden,

was this lyrist of luxurious ecstasy. In his work there was nothing worldly; that divides him
from the Venetians, whose sensuousness he shared: nothing scientific; that distinguishes him
from Da Vinci, the magic of whose chiaroscuro he comprehended: nothing contemplative; that
separates him from Michael Angelo, the audacity of whose design in dealing with forced attitudes
he rivalled, without apparently having enjoyed the opportunity of studying his works. The cheerfulness
of Raphael, the wizardry of Lionardo, and the boldness of Michael Angelo, met in him to form
a new style, the originality of which is indisputable, and which takes us captive--not by intellectual
power, but by the impulse of emotion. Of his artistic education we know nothing; and when we
call him the Ariel of painting, this means that we are compelled to think of him as an elemental
spirit, whose bidding the air and the light and the hues of the morning obey.

Correggio created a world of beautiful human beings, the whole condition of whose existence
is an innocent and radiant wantonness.[263] Over the domain of tragedy he had no sway; nor
could he deal with subjects demanding pregnancy of intellectual meaning. Nor, again, did he
possess that severe and lofty art of composition which seeks the highest beauty of design in
architectural harmony supreme above the melodies of gracefulness in detail. He was essentially
a lyrical as distinguished from an epical or dramatic poet. The unity of his work is derived
from the effect of light and atmosphere, the inbreathed soul of tremulous and throbbing life,
which bathes and liquefies the whole. It was enough for him to produce a gleeful symphony by
the play of light and colour, by the animation of his figures, and by the intoxicating beauty
of his forms. His angels are genii disimprisoned from the chalices of flowers, houris of an
erotic Paradise, elemental sprites of nature wantoning in Eden in her prime. They belong to
the generation of the fauns. Like fauns, they combine a certain wildness, a dithyrambic ecstasy,
a delight in rapid motion as they revel amid clouds and flowers, with the permanent and all-pervading
sweetness of the painter's style. Correggio's sensibility to light and colour--that quality
which makes him unique among painters--was on a par with his feeling for form. Within his own
magic circle Correggio reigns supreme; no other artist having blent the witcheries of colouring,
chiaroscuro, and wanton loveliness of form, into a harmony so perfect in its sensuous charm.
To feel his influence, and at the same moment to be the subject of strong passion, or intense
desire, or heroic resolve, or profound contemplation, or pensive melancholy, is impossible.
The Northern traveller, standing beneath his master-works in Parma, may hear from each of those
radiant and laughing faces what the young Italian said to Goethe: Perchè pensa? pensando s'
invecchia.

Michael Angelo is the prophet or seer of the Renaissance. It would be impossible to imagine
a stronger contrast than that which distinguishes his art from Correggio's, or lives more different
in all their details, than those which he and Raphael or Lionardo lived respectively. During
the eighty-nine years of his earthly pilgrimage he saw Italy enslaved and Florence extinguished;
it was his exceeding bitter fate to watch the rapid decay of the arts and to witness the triumph
of sacerdotal despotism over liberal thought. To none of these things was he indifferent; and
the sorrow they wrought in his soul, found expression in his painting.[264] Michael Angelo
was not framed by nature to fascinate like Lionardo or to charm like Raphael. His manners were
severe and simple. When he spoke, his words were brief and pungent. When he wrote, whether
in poetry or prose, he used the fewest phrases to express the most condensed meaning. When
asked why he had not married, he replied that the wife he had--his art--cost him already too
much trouble. He entertained few friends, and shunned society. Brooding over the sermons of
Savonarola, the text of the Bible, the discourses of Plato, and the poems of Dante, he made
his spirit strong in solitude by the companionship with everlasting thoughts. Therefore, when
he was called to paint the Sistine Chapel, he uttered through painting the weightiest prophecy
the world has ever seen expressed in plastic form. His theme is nothing less than the burden
of the prophets and the Sibyls who preached the coming of a light upon the world, and the condemnation
of the world which had rejected it, by an inexorable judge. Michelet says, not without truth,
that the spirit of Savonarola lives again in these frescoes. The procession of the four-and-twenty
elders, arraigned before the people of Brescia to accuse Italy of sin--the voice that cried
to Florence, "Behold the sword of the Lord, and that swiftly! Behold I, even I, do bring a
deluge on the earth!" are both seen and heard here very plainly. But there is more than Savonarola
in this prophecy of Michael Angelo's. It contains the stern spirit of Dante, aflame with patriotism,
passionate for justice. It embodies the philosophy of Plato. The creative God, who divides
light from darkness, who draws Adam from the clay and calls forth new-born Eve in awful beauty,
is the Demiurgus of the Greek. Again, it carries the indignation of Isaiah, the wild denunciations
of Ezekiel, the monotonous refrain of Jeremiah--"Ah, Lord, Lord!" The classic Sibyls intone
their mystic hymns; the Delphic on her tripod of inspiration, the Erythraean bending over her
scrolls, the withered witch of Cumae, the parched prophetess of Libya--all seem to cry, "Repent,
repent! for the kingdom of the spirit is at hand! Repent and awake, for the judgment of the
world approaches!" And above these voices we hear a most tremendous wail: "The nations have
come to the birth; but there is not strength to bring forth." That is the utterance of the
Renaissance, as it had appeared in Italy. She who was first among the nations was now last;
bound and bleeding, she lay prostrate at the temple-gate she had unlocked. To Michael Angelo
was given for his portion--not the alluring mysteries of the new age, not the joy of the renascent
world, not the petulant and pulsing rapture of youth: these had been divided between Lionardo,
Raphael, and Correggio--but the bitter burden of the sense that the awakening to life is in
itself a pain, that the revelation of the liberated soul is itself judgment, that a light is
shining, and that the world will not comprehend it. Pregnant as are the paintings of Michael
Angelo with religious import, they are no longer Catholic in the sense in which the frescoes
of the Lorenzetti and Orcagna and Giotto are Catholic. He went beyond the ecclesiastical standing
ground and reached one where philosophy includes the Christian faith. Thus the true spirit
of the Renaissance was embodied in his work of art.

Among the multitudes of figures covering the wall above the altar in the Sistine Chapel there
is one that might well stand for a symbol of the Renaissance. It is a woman of gigantic stature
in the act of toiling upwards from the tomb. Grave clothes impede the motion of her body: they
shroud her eyes and gather round her chest. Part only of her face and throat is visible, where
may be read a look of blank bewilderment and stupefaction, a struggle with death's slumber
in obedience to some inner impulse. Yet she is rising slowly, half awake, and scarcely conscious,
to await a doom still undetermined. Thus Michael Angelo interpreted the meaning of his age.

FOOTNOTES:

[197] "La man che ubbedisce all' intelletto" is a phrase pregnant with meaning, used by Michael
Angelo in one of his sonnets. See Guasti, Le Rime di Michael Angelo, p. 173. Michael Angelo's
blunt criticism of Perugino, that he was goffo, a fool in art, and his rude speech to Francia's
handsome son, that his father made better forms by night than day, sufficiently indicate the
different aims pursued by the painters of the two periods distinguished above.

[198] Though Mantegna seems to have owed all his training to Padua, it is impossible to regard
him as what is called a Squarcionesque--one among the artistic hacks formed and employed by
the Paduan impresario of third-rate painting. No other eagle like to him was reared in that
nest. His greatness belonged to his own genius, assimilating from the meagre means of study
within his reach those elements which enabled him to divine the spirit of the antique and to
attempt its reproduction. In order to facilitate the explanation of the problem offered by
his early command of style, it has been suggested with great show of reason that he received
a strong impression from the work executed in bas-relief by Donatello for the church of S.
Antonio at Padua. Thus Florentine influences helped to form even the original genius of this
greatest of the Lombard masters.

[199] Vasari, vol. v. p. 163, may be consulted with regard to Mantegna's preference for the
ideal of statuary when compared with natural beauty, as the model for a painter.

[200] See Crowe and Cavalcaselle's History of Painting in North Italy, vol. i. p. 334, for
an account of his antiquarian researches in company with Felice Feliciano. His museum was so
famous that in 1483 Lorenzo de' Medici, passing through Mantua from Venice, thought it worthy
of a visit. In his old age Mantegna fell into pecuniary difficulties, and had to part with
his collection. The forced sale of its chief ornament, a bust of Faustina, is said to have
broken his heart. Ib. p. 415.

[201] Painted on canvas in tempera for the Marquis of Mantua, before 1488, looted by the Germans
in 1630, sold to Charles I., resold by the Commonwealth, bought back by Charles II., and now
exposed, much spoiled by time and change, but more by villainous re-painting, on the walls
of Hampton Court.

[202] An oil painting in the National Gallery.

[203] The so-called "Triumph of Scipio" in the National Gallery seems to me in every respect
feebler than the Hampton Court Cartoons.

[204] The "Madonna della Vittoria," now in the Louvre Gallery, was painted to commemorate the
achievements of Francesco Gonzaga in the battle of Fornovo. That Francesco, General of the
Venetian troops, should have claimed that action, the eternal disgrace of Italian soldiery,
for a victory, is one of the strongest signs of the depth to which the sense of military honour
had sunk in Italy. But though the occasion of its painting was so mean, the impression made
by this picture is too powerful to be described. It is in every detail grandiose: masculine
energy being combined with incomparable grace, religious feeling with athletic dignity, and
luxuriance of ornamentation with severe gravity of composition. It is worth comparing this
portrait of Francesco Gonzaga with his bronze medal, just as Piero della Francesco's picture
of Sigismondo Malatesta should be compared with Pisanello's medallion.

[205] Vol. II., Revival of Learning, p. 212.

[206] Nothing is known about Mantegna's stay in Florence. He went to meet the Cardinal Francesco
Gonzaga at Bologna. This Cardinal, a great amateur of music and connoisseur in relics of antiquity,
came to Mantua in August, 1472, where the "Orfeo" of Messer Angelo Poliziano was produced for
his amusement.

[207] That he could conceive a stern and tragic subject, with all the passion it required,
is, however, proved not only by the frescoes at Orvieto, but also by the powerful oil-painting
of the "Crucifixion" at Borgo San Sepolcro.

[208] This story has been used for verse in a way to heighten its romantic colouring. Such
as the lines are, I subjoin them for the sake of their attempt to emphasize and illustrate
Renaissance feeling:--

    "Vasari tells that Luca Signorelli,
    The morning star of Michael Angelo,
    Had but one son, a youth of seventeen summers,
    Who died. That day the master at his easel
    Wielded the liberal brush wherewith he painted
    At Orvieto, on the Duomo's walls,
    Stern forms of Death and Heaven and Hell and Judgment.
    Then came they to him, cried: 'Thy son is dead,
    Slain in a duel: but the bloom of life
    Yet lingers round red lips and downy cheek.'
    Luca spoke not, but listened. Next they bore
    His dead son to the silent painting-room,
    And left on tip toe son and sire alone.
    Still Luca spoke and groaned not; but he raised
    The wonderful dead youth, and smoothed his hair,
    Washed his red wounds, and laid him on a bed,
    Naked and beautiful, where rosy curtains
    Shed a soft glimmer of uncertain splendour
    Life-like upon the marble limbs below.
    Then Luca seized his palette: hour by hour
    Silence was in the room; none durst approach:
    Morn wore to noon, and noon to eve, when shyly
    A little maid peeped in and saw the painter
    Painting his dead son with unerring hand-stroke,
    Firm and dry-eyed before the lordly canvas."

[209] See the article on Orvieto in my Sketches in Italy and Greece.

[210] The earlier frescoes of Fra Angelico, on the roof, depict Christ as Judge. But there
is nothing in common with these works and Signorelli's.

[211] This is the conjecture of Signor Luzi (Il Duomo di Orvieto, p. 168). He bases it upon
the Dantesque subjects illustrated, and quotes from the "Inferno":--

                   "Omero poeta sovrano;
    L' altro è Orazio satiro che viene,
    Ovidio è il terzo, e l' ultimo Lucano."

Nothing is more marked or more deeply interesting than the influence exercised by Dante over
Signorelli, an influence he shared with Giotto, Orcagna, Botticelli, Michael Angelo, the greatest
imaginative painters of Central Italy.

[212] The background to the circular "Madonna" in the Uffizzi, the "Flagellation of Christ"
in the Academy at Florence and in the Brera at Milan, and the "Adam" at Cortona, belong to
this grade.

[213] We may add the pages in a predella representing the "Adoration of the Magi" in the Uffizzi.

[214] Vasari mentions the portraits of Nicolo, Paolo, and Vitellozzo Vitelli, Gian Paolo, and
Orazio Baglioni, among others, in the frescoes at Orvieto.

[215] Painted for Lorenzo de' Medici. It is now in the Berlin Museum through the neglect of
the National Gallery authorities to purchase it for England.

[216] I must not omit to qualify Vasari's praise of Luca Signorelli, by reference to a letter
recently published from the Archivio Buonarroti, Lettere a Diversi, p. 391. Michael Angelo
there addresses the Captain of Cortona, and complains that in the first year of Leo's pontificate
Luca came to him and by various representations obtained from him the sum of eighty Giulios,
which he never repaid, although he made profession to have done so. Michael Angelo was ill
at the time, and working with much difficulty on a statue of a bound captive for the tomb of
Julius. Luca gave a specimen of his renowned courtesy by comforting the sculptor in these rather
sanctimonious phrases: "Doubt not that angels will come from heaven, to support your arms and
help you."

[217] Pietro, known as Perugino from the city of his adoption, was the son of Cristoforo Vannucci,
of Città della Pieve. He was born in 1446, and died at Fontignano in 1522.

[218] The triptych in the National Gallery.

[219] They have been published by the Arundel Society.

[220] These frescoes were begun in 1499. It may be mentioned that in this year, on the refusal
of Perugino to decorate the Cappella di S. Brizio, the Orvietans entrusted that work to Signorelli.

[221] Uffizzi and Sala del Cambio.

[222] "Fu Pietro persona di assai poca religione, e non se gli potè mai far credere l'immortalità
dell' anima: anzi, con parole, accomodate al suo cervello di porfido, ostinatissimamente ricusò
ogni buona vita. Aveva ogni sua speranza ne' beni della fortuna, e per danari arebbe fatto
ogni male contratto." Vasari, vol. vi. p. 50. The local tradition alluded to above relates
to the difficulties raised by the Church against the Christian burial of Perugino: but if he
died of plague, as it is believed (see C. and C., vol. iii. p. 244), these difficulties were
probably caused by panic rather than belief in his impiety. For Gasparo Celio's note on Perugino's
refusal to confess upon his death-bed, saying that he preferred to see how an impenitent soul
would fare in the other world, the reader may consult Rio's L'Art Chrétien, vol. ii. p. 269.
The record of Perugino's arming himself in Dec. 1486, together with a notorious assassin, Aulista
di Angelo of Perugia, in order to waylay and beat a private enemy of his near S. Pietro Maggiore
at Florence is quoted by Crowe and Cavalcaselle, vol. iii. p. 183.

[223] "Guadagnò molte ricchezze; e in Fiorenza murò e comprò case; ed in Perugia ed a Castello
della Pieve acquistò molti beni stahili." Vasari, vol. vi. p. 50.

[224] "Goffo nell arte." See Vasari, vol. vi. p. 46. See too above, p. 196.

[225] I select these for comment rather than the frescoes at Spello, beautiful as these are,
because they have more interest in relation to the style of the Renaissance.

[226] The "Assumption" in S. Frediano at Lucca should also be mentioned as one of Francia's
masterpieces.

[227] His father was a muleteer of Suffignano, who settled at Florence, in a house and garden
near the gate of S. Piero Gattolino. He was born in 1475, and he died in 1517.

[228] In S. Domenico at Prato in 1500. He afterwards resided in S. Marco at Florence.

[229] May 23, 1498.

[230] In addition to the pictures mentioned above, I may call attention to the adoring figure
of S. Catherine of Siena, in three large paintings--now severally in the Pitti, at Lucca, and
in the Louvre.

[231] In the Uffizzi. As a composition, it is the Frate's masterpiece.

[232] See Vol. I., Age of the Despots, p. 487, for this consequence of the sack of Prato.

[233] L'Art Chrétien, vol. ii. p. 515.

[234] Two of our best portraits of Savonarola, the earlier inscribed "Hieronymi Ferrariensis
a Deo Missi Prophetae Effigies," the later treated to represent S. Peter Martyr, are from the
hand of Fra Bartolommeo. See Crowe and Cavalcaselle, vol. iii. p. 433.

[235] See below, chapter vii.

[236] This sonnet I have translated into English with such closeness to the original words
as I found possible:--

    He who can do not what he wills, should try
      To will what he can do; for since 'tis vain
      To will what can't be compassed, to abstain
      From idle wishing is philosophy.
    Lo, all our happiness and grief imply
      Knowledge or not of will's ability:
      They therefore can, who will what ought to be.
      Nor wrest true reason from her seat awry.
    Nor what a man can, should he always will:
      Oft seemeth sweet what after is not so;
      And what I wished, when had, hath cost a tear.
    Then, reader of these lines, if thou wouldst still
      Be helpful to thyself, to others dear,
      Will to can alway what thou ought to do.

[237] See the letter addressed by Lionardo to Lodovico Sforza enumerating his claims as a mechanician,
military and civil engineer, architect, &c. It need scarcely be mentioned that he served Cesare
Borgia and the Florentine Republic as an engineer, and that much of his time at Milan was spent
in hydraulic works upon the Adda. It should be added here that Lionardo committed the results
of his discoveries to writing; but he published very little, and that by no means the most
precious portion of his thoughts. He founded at Milan an Academy of Arts and Sciences, if this
name may be given to a reunion of artists, scholars, and men of the world, to whom it is probable
that he communicated his researches in anatomy. The Treatise on Painting, which bears his name,
is a compilation from notes and MSS. first printed in 1651.

[238] The folio volume of sketches in the Ambrosian Library at Milan contains designs for all
these works. The collection in the Royal Library at Windsor is no less rich. Among Lionardo's
scientific drawings in the latter place may be mentioned a series of maps illustrating the
river system of Central Italy, with plans for improved drainage.

[241] In the Treatise on Painting, da Vinci argues strongly against isolating man. He regarded
the human being as in truth a microcosm to be only understood in relation to the world around
him, expressing, as a painter, the same thought as Pico. (See Vol. II., Revival of Learning,
p. 35.) Therefore he urges the claims of landscape on the attention of artists.

[242] I might refer in detail to four studies of bramble branches, leaves, and flowers and
fruit, in the royal collection at Windsor, most wonderful for patient accuracy and delicate
execution: also to drawings of oak leaves, wild guelder-rose, broom, columbine, asphodel, bull-rush,
and wood-spurge in the same collection. These careful studies are as valuable for the botanist
as for the artist. To render the specific character of each plant with greater precision would
be impossible.

[243] See the series of anatomical studies of the horse in the Royal Collection.

[244] Engraved by Edelinck. The drawing has obvious Lionardesque qualities; but how far it
may be from the character of the original we can guess by Rubens' transcript from Mantegna.
(See above, Chapter VI, Mantegna's Biography.) De Stendhal says wittily of this work, "C'est
Virgile traduit par Madame de Staël," op. cit. p. 162.

[245] In the Royal Collection at Windsor there are anatomical drawings for the construction
of an imaginary quadruped with gigantic claws. The bony, muscular, and venous structure of
its legs and feet is accurately indicated.

[246] See the drawings engraved and published by Gerli in his Disegni di Lionardo da Vinci,
Milan, 1784.

[247] Vasari is the chief source of these legends. Giraldi Lomazzo, the Milanese historian
of painting, and Bandello, the novelist, supply further details. It appears from all accounts
that Lionardo impressed his contemporaries as a singular and most commanding personality. There
is a touch of reverence in even the strangest stories, which is wanting in the legend of Piero
di Cosimo. See Arch. St. It., serie terza, xvi. 226.

[249] In the Royal Collection at Windsor there is a whole series of studies for these two statues,
together with drawings for the mould in which Lionardo intended to cast them. The second of
the two is sketched with great variety of motive. The horse is rearing; the fallen enemy is
vainly striving to defend himself; the victor in one drawing is reining in his steed, in another
is waving a truncheon, in a third is brandishing his sword, in a fourth is holding the sword
in act to thrust. The designs for the pedestals, sometimes treated as a tomb and sometimes
as a fountain, are equally varied.

[250] "Concevoir," said Balzac, "c'est jouir, c'est fumer des cigarettes enchantées; mais sans
l'exécution tout s'en va en rêve et en fumée." Quoted by Sainte-Beuve, Causeries du Lundi,
vol. ii. p. 353.

[251] See Vol. II., Revival of Learning, p. 128, 129.

[252] It was finished, according to Fra Paciolo, in 1498.

[253] Signorelli, with his usual originality, chose the moment when Christ broke bread and
gave it to His disciples. In that rare picture at Cortona, we see not the betrayed chief but
the founder of a new religion.

[254] The Cenacolo alone will not enable the student to understand Lionardo. He must give his
attention to the master's sketch books, those studies in chalk, in tempera, on thin canvas
and paper, prepared for the stylus or the pen, which Vasari calls the final triumphs of designing,
and of which, in spite of the loss of many of his books, the surviving specimens are very numerous.
Some are easily accessible in Gerli, Chamberlaine, and the autotype reproductions. It is possible
that a sympathetic student may get closer to the all-embracing and all-daring genius of the
magician through these drawings than if he had before him an elaborate work in fresco or in
oils. They express the many-sided, mobile, curious, and subtle genius of the man in its entirety.

[255] "Raffaello, che era la gentilezza stessa ... restavano vinti dalla cortesia e dall' arte
sua, ma più dal genio della sua buona natura; la quale era si piena di gentilezza e si colma
di carità, che egli si vedeva che fino agli animali l'onoravano, non che gli uomini."--Vasari,
vol. viii. pp. 6, 60.

[256] See above, Chapter VI, Fra Bartolommeo.

[257] The "Holy Family" at Munich, and the "Madonna del Baldacchino" in the Pitti, might be
mentioned as experiments on Raphael's part to perfect the Frate's scheme of composition.

[258] See Vasari, vol. viii. p. 60, for a description of the concord that reigned in this vast
workshop. The genius and the gentle nature of Raphael penetrated the whole group of artists,
and seemed to give them a single soul.

[259] The fresco of "Alexander" in the Palazzo Borghese is by an imitator.

[260] The "Madonna di San Sisto" was painted for a banner to be borne in processions. It is
a subtle observation of Rio that the banner, an invention of the Umbrian school, corresponds
in painting to the hymn in poetry.

[261] See Vol. II., Revival of Learning, p. 316, for Raphael's letter on this subject to Leo X.

[262] "La Spasimo di Sicilia" is the single Passion picture of Raphael's maturity. The predella
of "Christ carrying the Cross" at Leigh Court, and the "Christ showing His Wounds" in the Tosi
Gallery at Brescia, are both early works painted under Umbrian influence. The Borghese "Entombment,"
painted for Atalanta Baglioni, a pen-and-ink drawing of the "Pietà" in the Louvre collection,
Marc Antonio's engraving of the "Massacre of the Innocents," and an early picture of the "Agony
in the Garden," are all the other painful subjects I can now remember.

[263] For a fuller working out of this analysis I must refer to my Sketches in Italy, article
"Parma." Much that follows is a quotation from that essay.

[264] Much of the controversy about Michael Angelo, which is continually being waged between
his admirers and his detractors, might be set at rest if it were acknowledged that there are
two distinct ways of judging works of art. We may regard them simply as appealing to our sense
of beauty, and affording harmonious intellectual pleasure. Or we may regard them as expressing
the thought and spirit of their age, and as utterances made by men whose hearts burned within
them. Critics trained in the study of good Greek sculpture, or inclined by temperament to admire
the earlier products of Italian painting, are apt to pursue the former path exclusively. They
demand serenity and simplicity. Perturbation and violence they denounce as blemishes. It does
not occur to them that, though the phenomenon is certainly rare, it does occasionally happen
that a man arises whose art is for him the language of his soul, and who lives in sympathetic
relation to the sternest interests of his age. If such an artist be born when tranquil thought
and serene emotions are impossible for one who feels the meaning of his times with depth, he
must either paint and carve lies, or he must abandon the serenity that was both natural and
easy to the Greek and the earlier Italian. Michael Angelo was one of these select artistic
natures. He used his chisel and his pencil to express, not merely beautiful artistic motives,
but what he felt and thought about the world in which he had to live: and this world was full
of the ruin of republics, the corruption and humiliation of society, the subjection of Italy
to strangers. In Michael Angelo the student of both art and history finds an inestimably precious
and rare point of contact between the inner spirit of an age, and its external expression in
sculpture and painting.

It was a fact of the greatest importance for the development of the fine arts in Italy that
painting in Venice reached maturity later than in Florence. Owing to this circumstance one
chief aspect of the Renaissance, its material magnificence and freedom, received consummate
treatment at the hands of Titian, Tintoretto, and Veronese. To idealise the sensualities of
the external universe, to achieve for colour what the Florentines had done for form, to invest
the worldly grandeur of human life at one of its most gorgeous epochs with the dignity of the
highest art, was what these great artists were called on to accomplish. Their task could not
have been so worthily performed in the fifteenth century as in the sixteenth, if the development
of the aesthetic sense had been more premature among the Venetians.

Venice was precisely fitted for the part her painters had to play. Free, isolated, wealthy,
powerful; famous throughout Europe for the pomp of her state equipage, and for the immorality
of her private manners; ruled by a prudent aristocracy, who spent vast wealth on public shows
and on the maintenance of a more than imperial civic majesty: Venice, with her pavement of
liquid chrysoprase, with her palaces of porphyry and marble, her frescoed façades, her quays
and squares aglow with the costumes of the Levant, her lagoons afloat with the galleys of all
nations, her churches floored with mosaics, her silvery domes and ceilings glittering with
sculpture bathed in molten gold: Venice luxurious in the light and colour of a vaporous atmosphere,
where sea-mists rose into the mounded summer clouds; arched over by the broad expanse of sky,
bounded only by the horizon of waves and plain and distant mountain ranges, and reflected in
all its many hues of sunrise and sunset upon the glassy surface of smooth waters: Venice asleep
like a miracle of opal or of pearl upon the bosom of an undulating lake:--here and here only
on the face of the whole globe was the unique city wherein the pride of life might combine
with the lustre of the physical universe to create and stimulate in the artist a sense of all
that was most sumptuous in the pageant of the world of sense.

There is colour in flowers. Gardens of tulips are radiant, and mountain valleys touch the soul
with the beauty of their pure and gemlike hues. Therefore the painters of Flanders and of Umbria,
John van Eyck and Gentile da Fabriano, penetrated some of the secrets of the world of colour.
But what are the purples and scarlets and blues of iris, anemone, or columbine, dispersed among
deep meadow grasses or trained in quiet cloister garden-beds, when compared with that melodrama
of flame and gold and rose and orange and azure, which the skies and lagoons of Venice yield
almost daily to the eyes? The Venetians had no green fields and trees, no garden borders, no
blossoming orchards, to teach them the tender suggestiveness, the quaint poetry of isolated
or contrasted tints. Their meadows were the fruitless furrows of the Adriatic, hued like a
peacock's neck; they called the pearl-shells of their Lido flowers, fior di mare. Nothing distracted
their attention from the glories of morning and of evening presented to them by their sea and
sky. It was in consequence of this that the Venetians conceived colour heroically, not as a
matter of missal-margins or of subordinate decoration, but as a motive worthy in itself of
sublime treatment. In like manner, hedged in by no limitary hills, contracted by no city walls,
stifled by no narrow streets, but open to the liberal airs of heaven and ocean, the Venetians
understood space and imagined pictures almost boundless in their immensity. Light, colour,
air, space: those are the elemental conditions of Venetian art; of those the painters weaved
their ideal world for beautiful and proud humanity.

With this we may compare the following extract from a letter, addressed in May 1544 to Titian,
by one of the most unprincipled of literary bandits who have ever disgraced humanity, but who
nevertheless was solemnised to the spirit of true poetry by the grandiose aspect of nature
as it appeared to him in Venice. That Pietro Aretino should have so deeply felt the charm of
natural beauty in an age when even the greatest artists and poets sought inspiration in human
life rather than the outer world, is a significant fact. It seems to illustrate the necessity
whereby Venice became the cradle of the art of nature.[266] "Having, dear Sir, and my best
gossip, supped alone to the injury of my custom, or, to speak more truly, supped in the company
of all the boredoms of a cursed quartan fever, which will not let me taste the flavour of any
food, I rose from table sated with the same disgust with which I had sat down to it. In this
mood I went and leaned my arms upon the sill outside my window, and throwing my chest and nearly
all my body on the marble, abandoned myself to the contemplation of the spectacle presented
by the innumerable boats, filled with foreigners as well as people of the city, which gave
delight not merely to the gazers, but also to the Grand Canal itself, that perpetual delight
of all who plough its waters. From this animated scene, all of a sudden, like one who from
mere ennui knows not how to occupy his mind, I turned my eyes to heaven, which, from the moment
when God made it, was never adorned with such painted loveliness of lights and shadows. The
whole region of the air was what those who envy you, because they are unable to be you, would
fain express. To begin with, the buildings of Venice, though of solid stone, seemed made of
some ethereal substance. Then the sky was full of variety--here clear and ardent, there dulled
and overclouded. What marvellous clouds there were! Masses of them in the centre of the scene
hung above the house-roofs, while the immediate part was formed of a grey tint inclining to
dark. I gazed astonished at the varied colours they displayed. The nearer masses burned with
flames of sunset; the more remote blushed with a blaze of crimson less afire. Oh, how splendidly
did Nature's pencil treat and dispose that airy landscape, keeping the sky apart from the palaces,
just as Titian does! On one side the heavens showed a greenish-blue, on another a bluish-green,
invented verily by the caprice of Nature, who is mistress of the greatest masters. With her
lights and her darks, there she was harmonising, toning, and bringing out into relief, just
as she wished. Seeing which, I who know that your pencil is the spirit of her inmost soul,
cried aloud thrice or four tines, 'Oh, Titian! where are you now?'"

In order to understand the destiny of Venice in art, it is not enough to concentrate attention
on the peculiarities of her physical environment. Potent as these were in the creation of her
style, the political and social conditions of the Republic require also to be taken into account.
Among Italian cities Venice was unique. She alone was tranquil in her empire, unimpeded in
her constitutional development, independent of Church interference, undisturbed by the cross
purposes and intrigues of the Despots, inhabited by merchants who were princes, and by a free-born
people who had never seen war at their gates. The serenity of undisturbed security, the luxury
of wealth amassed abroad and liberally spent at home, gave a physiognomy of ease and proud
self-confidence to all her edifices. The grim and anxious struggles of the Middle Ages left
no mark on Venice. How different was this town from Florence, every inch of whose domain could
tell of civic warfare, whose passionate aspirations after independence ended in the despotism
of the bourgeois Medici, whose repeated revolutions had slavery for their climax, whose grey
palaces bore on their fronts the stamp of mediaeval vigilance, whose spirit was incarnated
in Dante the exile, whose enslavement forced from Michael Angelo those groans of a chained
Titan expressed in the marbles of S. Lorenzo! It is not an insignificant, though a slight,
detail, that the predominant colour of Florence is brown, while the predominant colour of Venice
is that of mother-of-pearl, concealing within its general whiteness every tint that can be
placed upon the palette of a painter. The conditions of Florence stimulated mental energy and
turned the forces of the soul inwards. Those of Venice inclined the individual to accept life
as he found it. Instead of exciting him to think, they disposed him to enjoy, or to acquire
by industry the means of manifold enjoyment. To represent in art the intellectual strivings
of the Renaissance was the task of Florence and her sons; to create a monument of Renaissance
magnificence was the task of Venice. Without Venice the modern world could not have produced
that flower of sensuous and unreflective loveliness in painting, which is worthy to stand beside
the highest product of the Greek genius in sculpture. For Athena from her Parthenon stretches
the hand to Venezia enthroned in the ducal palace. The broad brows and earnest eyes of the
Hellenic goddess are of one divine birth and lineage with the golden hair and superb carriage
of the sea-queen.

It is in the heart of Venice, in the House of the Republic, that the Venetian painters, considered
as the interpreters of worldly splendour, fulfilled their function with the most complete success.
Centuries contributed to make the Ducal Palace what it is. The massive colonnades and Gothic
loggias of the external basement date from the thirteenth century; their sculpture belongs
to the age when Niccola Pisano's genius was in the ascendant. The square fabric of the palace,
so beautiful in the irregularity of its pointed windows, so singular in its mosaic diaper of
pink and white, was designed at the same early period. The inner court and the façade that
overhangs the lateral canal, display the handiwork of Sansovino. The halls of the palace--spacious
chambers where the Senate assembled, where ambassadors approached the Doge, where the Savi
deliberated, where the Council of Ten conducted their inquisition--are walled and roofed with
pictures of inestimable value, encased in framework of carved oak; overlaid with burnished
gold. Supreme art--the art of the imagination perfected with delicate and skilful care in detail--is
made in these proud halls the minister of mundane pomp. In order that the gold brocade of the
ducal robes, that the scarlet and crimson of the Venetian senator, might, be duly harmonised
by the richness of their surroundings, it was necessary that canvases measured by the square
yard, and rendered priceless by the authentic handiwork of Titian, Tintoret, and Veronese,
should glow upon the walls and ceilings. A more insolent display of public wealth--a more lavish
outpouring of human genius in the service of State pageantry, cannot be imagined.

Sublime over all allegories and histories depicted in those multitudes of paintings, sits Venezia
herself enthroned and crowned, the personification of haughtiness and power. Figured as a regal
lady, with yellow hair tightly knotted round a small head poised upon her upright throat and
ample shoulders, Venice takes her chair of sovereignty--as mistress of the ocean to whom Neptune
and the Tritons offer pearls, as empress of the globe at whose footstool wait Justice with
the sword and Peace with the olive branch, as a queen of heaven exalted to the clouds. They
have made her a goddess, those great painters; they have produced a mythus, and personified
in native loveliness that bride of the sea, their love, their lady. The beauty of Venetian
women and the glory of Venetian empire find their meeting point in her, and live as the spirit
of Athens lived in Pallas Promachos. On every side, above, around, wherever the eye falls in
those vast rooms, are seen the deeds of Venice--painted histories of her triumphs over emperors
and popes and infidels, or allegories of her greatness--scenes wherein the Doges perform acts
of faith, with S. Mark for their protector, and with Venezia for their patroness. The saints
in Paradise, massed together by Tintoretto and by Palma, mingle with mythologies of Greece
and Rome, and episodes of pure idyllic painting.

Religion in these pictures was a matter of parade, an adjunct to the costly public life of
the Republic. We need not, therefore, conclude that it was unreal. Such as it was, the religion
of the Venetian masters is indeed as genuine as that of Fra Angelico or Albert Dürer. But it
was the faith, not of humble men or of mystics, not of profound thinkers or ecstatic visionaries,
so much as of courtiers and statesmen, of senators and merchants, for whom religion was a function
among other functions, not a thing apart, not a source of separate and supreme vitality. Even
as Christians, the Venetians lived a life separate from the rest of Italy. Their Church claimed
independence of the see of Rome, and the enthusiasm of S. Francis was but faintly felt in the
lagoons. Siena in her hour of need dedicated herself to Madonna; Florence in the hour of her
regeneration gave herself to Christ; Venice remained under the ensign of the leonine S. Mark.
While the cities of Lombardy and Central Italy ran wild with revivalism and religious panics,
the Venetians maintained their calm, and never suffered piety to exceed the limits of political
prudence. There is, therefore, no mystical exaltation in the faith depicted by her artists.
That Tintoretto could have painted the saints in glory--a countless multitude of congregated
forms, a sea whereof the waves are souls--as a background for State ceremony, shows the positive
and realistic attitude of mind from which the most imaginative of Venetian masters started,
when he undertook the most exalted of religious themes. Paradise is a fact, we may fancy Tintoretto
reasoned; and it is easier to fill a quarter of an acre of canvas with a picture of Paradise
than with any other subject, because the figures can be arranged in concentric tiers round
Christ and Madonna in glory.

There is a little sketch by Guardi representing a masked ball in the Council Chamber where
the "Paradise" of Tintoretto fills a wall. The men are in periwigs and long waistcoats; the
ladies wear hoops, patches, fans, high heels, and powder. Bowing, promenading, intriguing,
exchanging compliments or repartees, they move from point to point; while from the billowy
surge of saints, Moses with the table of the law and the Magdalen with her adoring eyes of
penitence look down upon them. Tintoretto could not but have foreseen that the world of living
pettiness and passion would perpetually jostle with his world of painted sublimities and sanctities
in that vast hall. Yet he did not on that account shrink from the task or fail in its accomplishment.
Paradise existed: therefore it could be painted; and he was called upon to paint it here. If
the fine gentlemen and ladies below felt out of harmony with the celestial host, so much the
worse for them. In this practical spirit the Venetian masters approached religious art, and
such was the sphere appointed for it in the pageantry of the Republic. When Paolo Veronese
was examined by the Holy Office respecting some supposed irreverence in a sacred picture, his
answers clearly proved that in planning it he had thought less of its spiritual significance
than of its aesthetic effect.[267]

In the Ducal Palace the Venetian art of the Renaissance culminates; and here we might pause
a moment to consider the difference between these paintings and the mediaeval frescoes of the
Palazzo Pubblico at Siena.[268] The Sienese painters consecrated all their abilities to the
expression of thoughts, theories of political self-government in a free State, and devotional
ideas. The citizen who read the lesson of the Sala della Pace was instructed in his duties
to God and to the State. The Venetian painters, as we have seen, exalted Venice and set forth
her acts of power. Their work is a glorification of the Republic; but no doctrine is inculcated,
and no system of thought is conveyed to the mind through the eye. Daily pacing the saloons
of the palace, Doge and noble were reminded of the greatness of the State they represented.
They were not invited to reflect upon the duties of the governor and governed. Their imaginations
were dilated and their pride roused by the spectacle of Venice seated like a goddess in her
home. Of all the secular States of Italy the Republic of S. Mark's alone produced this mythical
ideal of the body politic, self-sustained and independent of the citizens, compelling their
allegiance, and sustaining them through generations with the life of its organic unity.[269]
The artists had no reason to paint thoughts and theories. It was enough to set forth Venice
and to illustrate her acts.

Long before Venetian painting reached a climax in the decorative triumphs of the Ducal Palace,
the masters of the school had formed a style expressive of the spirit of the Renaissance, considered
as the spirit of free enjoyment and living energy. To trace the history of Venetian painting
is to follow through its several stages the growth of that mastery over colour and sensuous
beauty which was perfected in the works of Titian and his contemporaries.[270] Under the Vivarini
of Murano the Venetian school in its infancy began with a selection from the natural world
of all that struck them as most brilliant. No other painters of their age in Italy employed
such glowing colours, or showed a more marked predilection for the imitation of fruits, rich
stuffs, architectural canopies, jewels, and landscape backgrounds. Their piety, unlike the
mysticism of the Sienese and the deep thought of the Florentine masters, is somewhat superficial
and conventional. The merit of their devotional pictures consists of simplicity, vivacity,
and joyousness. Our Lady and her court of saints seem living and breathing upon earth. There
is no atmosphere of tranced solemnity surrounding them, like that which gives peculiar meaning
to similar works of the Van Eycks and Memling--artists, by the way, who in many important respects
are more nearly allied than any others to the spirit of the first age of Venetian painting.[271]

What the Vivarini began, the three Bellini,[272] with Crivelli, Carpaccio, Mansueti, Basaiti,
Catena, Cima da Conegliano, Bissolo, Cordegliaghi, continued. Bright costumes, distinct and
sunny landscapes, broad backgrounds of architecture, large skies, polished armour, gilded cornices,
young faces of fisherboys and country girls,[273] grave faces of old men brown with sea-wind
and sunlight, withered faces of women hearty in a hale old age, the strong manhood of Venetian
senators, the dignity of patrician ladies, the gracefulness of children, the rosy whiteness
and amber-coloured tresses of the daughters of the Adriatic and lagoons--these are the source
of inspiration to the Venetians of the second period. Mantegna, a few miles distant, at Padua,
was working out his ideal of severely classical design. Yet he scarcely touched the manner
of the Venetians with his influence, though Gian Bellini was his brother-in-law and pupil,
and though his genius, in grasp of matter and in management of composition, soared above his
neighbours. Lionardo da Vinci at Milan was perfecting his problems of psychology in painting,
offering to the world solutions of the greatest difficulties in the delineation of the spirit
by expression. Yet not a trace of Lionardo's subtle play of light and shadow upon thoughtful
features can be discerned in the work of the Bellini. For them the mysteries of the inner and
the outer world had no attraction. The externals of a full and vivid existence fascinated their
imagination. Their poetry and their piety were alike simple and objective. How to depict the
world as it is seen--a miracle of varying lights and melting hues, a pageant substantial to
the touch and concrete to the eyes, a combination of forms defined by colours more than outlines--was
their task. They did not reach their end by anatomy, analysis, and reconstruction. They undertook
to paint just what they felt and saw.

Very instructive are the wall-pictures of this period, painted not in fresco but on canvas
by Carpaccio and Gentile Bellini, for the decoration of the Scuole of S. Ursula and S. Croce.[274]
Not only do these bring before us the life of Venice in its manifold reality, but they illustrate
the tendency of the Venetian masters to express the actual world, rather than to formulate
an ideal of the fancy or to search the secrets of the soul. This realism, if the name can be
applied to pictures so poetical as those of Carpaccio, is not, like the Florentine realism,
hard and scientific. A natural feeling for grace and a sense of romance inspire the artist,
and breathe from every figure that he paints. The type of beauty produced is charming by its
negligence and naïveté; it is not thought out with pains or toilsomely elaborated.[275]

Among the loveliest motives used in the altar-pieces of this period might be mentioned the
boy-angels playing flutes and mandolines beneath Madonna on the steps of her throne. There
are usually three of them, seated, or sometimes standing. They hold their instruments of music
as though they had just ceased from singing, and were ready to recommence at the pleasure of
their mistress. Meanwhile there is a silence in the celestial company, through which the still
voice of the praying heart is heard, a silence corresponding to the hushed mood of the worshipper.[276]
The children are accustomed to the holy place; therefore their attitudes are both reverent
and natural. They are more earthly than Fra Angelico's melodists, and yet they are not precisely
of human lineage. It is not, perhaps, too much to say that they strike the keynote of Venetian
devotion, at once real and devoid of pietistic rapture.

Gian Bellini brought the art of this second period to completion. In his sacred pictures the
reverential spirit of early Italian painting is combined with a feeling for colour and a dexterity
in its manipulation peculiar to Venice. Bellini cannot be called a master of the full Renaissance.
He falls into the same class as Francia and Perugino, who adhered to quattrocento modes of
thought and sentiment, while attaining at isolated points to the freedom of the Renaissance.
In him the colourists of the next age found an absolute teacher; no one has surpassed him in
the difficult art of giving tone to pure tints in combination. There is a picture of Bellini's
in S. Zaccaria at Venice--Madonna enthroned with Saints--where the skill of the colourist may
be said to culminate in unsurpassable perfection. The whole painting is bathed in a soft but
luminous haze of gold; yet each figure has its individuality of treatment, the glowing fire
of S. Peter contrasting with the pearly coolness of the drapery and flesh-tints of the Magdalen.
No brush-work is perceptible. Surface and substance have been elaborated into one harmonious
richness that defies analysis. Between this picture, so strong in its smoothness, and any masterpiece
of Velasquez, so rugged in its strength, what a wide abyss of inadequate half-achievement,
of smooth feebleness and feeble ruggedness, exists!

Giorgione, did we but possess enough of his authentic works to judge by, would be found the
first painter of the true Renaissance among the Venetians, the inaugurate of the third and
great period.[277] He died at the age of thirty-six, the inheritor of unfulfilled renown. Time
has destroyed the last vestige of his frescoes. Criticism has reduced the number of his genuine
easel pictures to half a dozen. He exists as a great name. The part he played in the development
of Venetian art was similar to that of Marlowe in the history of our drama. He first cut painting
altogether adrift from mediaeval moorings, and launched it on the waves of the Renaissance
liberty. While equal as a colourist to Bellini, though in a different and more sensuous region,
Giorgione, by the variety and inventiveness of his conception, proved himself a painter of
the calibre of Titian. Sacred subjects he seems to have but rarely treated, unless such purely
idyllic pictures as the "Finding of Moses" in the Uffizzi, and the "Meeting of Jacob and Rachel"
at Dresden deserve the name. Allegories of deep and problematic meaning, the key whereof has
to be found in states of the emotion rather than, in thoughts, delighted him. He may be said
to have invented the Venetian species of romance picture, where an episode in a novella forms
the motive of the painting.[278] Nor was he deficient in tragic power, as the tremendous study
for a Lucrece in the Uffizzi collection sufficiently proves. In his drawings he models the
form without outline by massive distribution of light and dark. In style they are the very
opposite of Lionardo's clearly defined studies touched with the metal point upon prepared paper.
They suggest colouring, and are indeed the designs of a great colourist, who saw things under
the conditions of their tints and tone.

Of the undisputed pictures by Giorgione, the grandest is the "Monk at the Clavichord," in the
Pitti Palace at Florence.[279] The young man has his fingers on the keys; he is modulating
in a mood of grave and sustained emotion; his head is turned away towards an old man standing
near him. On the other side of the instrument is a boy. These two figures are but foils and
adjuncts to the musician in the middle; and the whole interest of his face lies in its concentrated
feeling--the very soul of music, as expressed in Mr. Robert Browning's "Abt Vogler," passing
through his eyes. This power of painting the portrait of an emotion, of depicting by the features
a deep and powerful but tranquil moment of the inner life, must have been possessed by Giorgione
in an eminent degree. We find it again in the so-called "Begrüssung" of the Dresden Gallery.[280]
The picture is a large landscape, Jacob and Rachel meet and salute each other with a kiss.
But the shepherd lying beneath the shadow of a chestnut tree beside a well has a whole Arcadia
of intense yearning in the eyes of sympathy he fixes on the lovers. Something of this faculty,
it may be said in passing, descended to Bonifazio, whose romance pictures are among the most
charming products of Venetian art, and one of whose singing women in the feast of Dives has
the Giorgionesque fulness of inner feeling.

Fate has dealt less unkindly with Titian, Tintoret, and Veronese than with Giorgione. The works
of these artists, in whom the Venetian Renaissance attained completion, have been preserved
in large numbers and in excellent condition. Chronologically speaking, Titian, the contemporary
of Giorgione, precedes Tintoretto, and Tintoretto is somewhat earlier than Veronese.[281] But
for the purpose of criticism the three painters may be considered together as the representatives
of three marked aspects in the fully developed Venetian style.

Tintoretto, called by the Italians the thunderbolt of painting, because of his vehement impulsiveness
and rapidity of execution, soars above his brethren by the faculty of pure imagination. It
was he who brought to its perfection the poetry of chiaroscuro, expressing moods of passion
and emotion by brusque lights, luminous half-shadows, and semi-opaque darkness, no less unmistakably
than Beethoven by symphonic modulations. He too engrafted on the calm and natural Venetian
manner something of the Michael Angelesque sublimity, and sought to vary by dramatic movement
the romantic motives of his school. In his work, more than in that of his contemporaries, Venetian
art ceased to be decorative and idyllic.

Veronese elevated pageantry to the height of serious art. His domain is noonday sunlight ablaze
on sumptuous dresses and Palladian architecture. Where Tintoretto is dramatic, he is scenic.
Titian, in a wise harmony, without either the Æschylean fury of Tintoretto, or the material
gorgeousness of Veronese, realised an ideal of pure beauty. Continuing the traditions of Bellini
and Giorgione, with a breadth of treatment, and a vigour of well-balanced faculties peculiar
to himself, Titian gave to colour in landscape and the human form a sublime yet sensuous poetry
no other painter in the world has reached.

Tintoretto and Veronese are, both of them, excessive. The imagination of Tintoretto is too
passionate and daring; it scathes and blinds like lightning. The sense of splendour in Veronese
is overpoweringly pompous. Titian's exquisite humanity, his large and sane nature, gives proper
value to the imaginative and the scenic elements of the Venetian style, without exaggerating
either. In his masterpieces thought, colour, sentiment, and composition--the spiritual and
technical elements of art--exist in perfect balance; one harmonious tone is given to all the
parts of his production, nor can it be said that any quality asserts itself to the injury of
the rest. Titian, the Sophocles of painting, has infused into his pictures the spirit of music,
the Dorian mood of flutes and soft recorders, making power incarnate in a form of grace.

Round these great men are grouped a host of secondary but distinguished painters--Palma with
his golden-haired large-bosomed sirens; idyllic Bonifazio; dramatic Pordenone, whose frescoes
are all motion and excitement; Paris Bordone, who mingled on his canvas cream and mulberry
juice and sunbeams; the Robusti, the Caliari, the Bassani, and others whom it would be tedious
to mention. One breath, one afflatus, inspired them all; and it is due to this coherence in
their style and inspiration that the school of Venice, taken as a whole, can show more masterpieces
by artists of the second class than any other in Italy. Superior or inferior as they may relatively
be among themselves, each bears the indubitable stamp of the Venetian Renaissance, and produces
work of a quality that raises him to high rank among the painters of the world. In the same
way the spirit of the Renaissance, passing over the dramatists of our Elizabethan age, enabled
intellects of average force to take rank in the company of the noblest. Ford, Massinger, Heywood,
Decker, Webster, Fletcher, Tourneur, Marston, are seated round the throne at the feet of Shakspere,
Marlowe, and Jonson.

In order to penetrate the characteristics of Venetian art more thoroughly, it will be needful
to enter into detailed criticism of the three chief masters who command the school. To begin
with Veronese. His canvases are nearly always large--filled with figures of the size of life,
massed together in groups or extended in long lines beneath white marble colonnades, which
enclose spaces of clear sky and silvery clouds. Armour, shot silks and satins, brocaded canopies,
banners, plate, fruit, sceptres, crowns, all things, in fact, that burn and glitter in the
sun, form the habitual furniture of his pictures. Rearing horses, dogs, dwarfs, cats, when
occasion serves, are used to add reality, vivacity, grotesqueness to his scenes. His men and
women are large, well proportioned, vigorous--eminent for pose and gesture rather than for
grace or loveliness--distinguished by adult more than adolescent qualities.

Veronese has no choice type of beauty for either sex. We find in him, on the contrary, a somewhat
coarse display of animal force in men, and of superb voluptuousness in women. He prefers to
paint women draped in gorgeous raiment, as if he had not felt the beauty of the nude. Their
faces are too frequently unrefined and empty of expression. His noblest creatures are men of
about twenty-five, manly, brawny, crisp-haired, full of nerve and blood. In all this Veronese
resembles Rubens. But he does not, like Rubens, strike us as gross, sensual, fleshly;[282]
he remains proud, powerful, and frigidly materialistic. He raises neither repulsion nor desire,
but displays with the calm strength of art the empire of the mundane spirit. All the equipage
of wealth and worldliness, the lust of the eye, and the pride of life--such a vision as the
fiend offered to Christ on the mountain of temptation; this is Veronese's realm. Again, he
has no flashes of poetic imagination like Tintoretto; but his grip on the realities of the
world, his faculty for idealising prosaic magnificence, is even greater.

Veronese was precisely the painter suited to a nation of merchants, in whom the associations
of the counting-house and the exchange mingled with the responsibilities of the Senate and
the passions of princes. He never portrayed vehement emotions. There are no brusque movements,
no extended arms, like those of Tintoretto's Magdalen in the "Pietà" at Milan, in his pictures.
His Christs and Maries and martyrs of all sorts are composed, serious, courtly, well-fed personages,
who, like people of the world accidentally overtaken by some tragic misfortune, do not stoop
to distortions or express more than a grave surprise, a decorous sense of pain.[283] His angelic
beings are equally earthly.

The Venetian Rothschilds no doubt preferred the ceremonial to the imaginative treatment of
sacred themes; and to do him justice, Veronese did not make what would in his case have been
the mistake of choosing the tragedies of the Bible for representation. It is the story of Esther,
with its royal audiences, coronations, and processions; the marriage feast at Cana; the banquet
in the house of Levi, that he selects by preference. Even these themes he removes into a region
far from Biblical associations. His mise en scène is invariably borrowed from luxurious Italian
palaces--large open courts and loggie, crowded with guests and lacqueys--tables profusely laden
with gold and silver plate. The same love of display led him to delight in allegory--not allegory
of the deep and mystic kind, but of the pompous and processional, in which Venice appears enthroned
among the deities, or Jupiter fulminates against the vices, or the genii of the arts are personified
as handsome women and blooming boys. In dealing with mythology, again, it is not its poetry
that he touches; he uses the tale of Europa, for example, as the motive for rich toilettes
and delightful landscape, choosing the moment that has least in it of pathos. These being the
prominent features of his style, it remains to be said that what is really great in Veronese
is the sobriety of his imagination and the solidity of his workmanship. Amid so much that is
distracting, he never loses command over his subject; nor does he degenerate into fulsome rhetoric.

Tintoretto is not at home in this somewhat vulgar region of ceremonial grandeur. He requires
both thought and fancy as the stimulus to his creative effort. He cannot be satisfied with
reproducing, even in the noblest combinations, merely what he sees around him of resplendent
and magnificent. There must be scope for poetry in the conception and for audacity in the projection
of his subject, something that shall rouse the prophetic faculty and evoke the seer in the
artist, or Tintoretto does not rise to his own altitude. Accordingly we find that, in contrast
with Veronese, he selects by preference the most tragic and dramatic subjects to be found in
sacred history. The Crucifixion, with its agonising deity and prostrate groups of women, sunk
below the grief of tears;--the Temptation in the wilderness, with its passionate contrast of
the grey-robed Man of Sorrows and the ruby-winged, voluptuous fiend;--the Temptation of Adam
in Eden, a glowing allegory of the fascination of the spirit by the flesh;--Paradise, a tempest
of souls, whirled like Lucretian atoms or gold dust in sunbeams by the celestial forces that
perform the movement of the spheres;--the Destruction of the world, where all the fountains
and rivers and lakes and seas of earth have formed one cataract, that thunders with cities
and nations on its rapids down a bottomless gulf; while all the winds and hurricanes of the
air have grown into one blast, that carries men like dead leaves up to judgment;--the Plague
of the fiery serpents, with multitudes encoiled and writhing on a burning waste of sand;--the
Massacre of the Innocents, with its spilth of blood on slippery pavements of porphyry and serpentine;--the
Delivery of the tables of the law to Moses amid clouds on Sinai, a white ascetic, lightning-smitten
man emerging in the glory of apparent godhead;--the anguish of the Magdalen above her martyred
God;--the solemn silence of Christ before the throne of Pilate;--the rushing of the wings of
Seraphim, and the clangour of the trumpet that awakes the dead;--these are the soul-stirring
themes that Tintoretto handles with the ease of mastery.[284]

Meditating upon Tintoretto's choice of such subjects, we feel that the profoundest characteristic
of his genius is the determination toward motives pre-eminently poetic rather than proper to
the figurative arts. The poet imagines a situation in which the intellectual or emotional life
is paramount, and the body is subordinate. The painter selects situations in which physical
form is of the first importance, and a feeling or a thought is suggested. But Tintoretto grapples
immediately with poetical ideas; and he often fails to realise them fully through the inadequacy
of painting as a medium for such matter. Moses, in the drama of the "Golden Calf," for instance,
is a poem, not a true picture.[285] The pale ecstatic stretching out emaciated arms, presents
no beauty of attitude or outline. Energy of thought is conspicuous in the figure; and reflection
is needed to bring out the purpose of the painter.[286]

It is not, however, only in the region of the vast, tempestuous, and tragic that Tintoretto
finds himself at home. He is equal to every task that can be imposed upon the imagination.
Provided only that the spiritual fount be stirred, the jet of living water gushes forth, pure,
inexhaustible, and limpid. In his "Marriage of Bacchus and Ariadne," that most perfect lyric
of the sensuous fancy from which sensuality is absent;[287] in his "Temptation of Adam," that
symphony of grey and brown and ivory more lustrous than the hues of sunset; in his "Miracle
of S. Agnes," that lamb-like maiden with her snow-white lamb among the soldiers and the priests
of Rome, Tintoretto has proved beyond all question that the fiery genius of Titanic artists
can pierce and irradiate the placid and the tender secrets of the soul with more consummate
mastery than falls to the lot of those who make tranquillity their special province.[288]

Paolo Veronese never penetrated to this inner shrine of beauty, this Holiest of Holies where
the spiritual graces dwell. He could not paint waxen limbs, with silver lights and golden and
transparent mysteries of shadow, like those of Bacchus, Eve, and Ariadne. Titian himself was
powerless to imagine movement like that of Aphrodite floating in the air, or of Madonna adjuring
Christ in the "Paradiso," or of Christ Himself judging by the silent simplicity of his divine
attitude the worldly judge at whose tribunal He stands, or of the tempter raising his jewelled
arms aloft to dazzle with meretricious brilliancy the impassive God above him, or of Eve leaning
in irresistible seductiveness against the fatal tree, or of S. Mark down-rushing through the
sky to save the slave that cried to him, or of the Mary who has fallen asleep with folded hands
from utter lassitude of agony at the foot of the cross.

It is in these attitudes, movements, gestures, that Tintoretto makes the human form an index
and symbol of the profoundest, most tragic, most delicious thought and feeling of the inmost
soul. In daylight radiancy and equable colouring he is surpassed perhaps by Veronese. In mastery
of every portion of his art, in solidity of execution, and in unwavering hold upon his subject,
he falls below the level of Titian. Many of his pictures are unworthy of his genius--hurriedly
designed, rapidly dashed upon the canvas, studied by candlelight from artificial models, with
abnormal effects of light and dark, hastily daubed with pigments that have not stood the test
of time. He was a gigantic improvitsatore: that is the worst thing we can say of him. But in
the swift intuitions of the imagination, in the purities and sublimities of the prophet-poet's
soul, neither Veronese nor yet even Titian can approach him.

The greatest difficulty meets the critic who attempts to speak of Titian. To seize the salient
characteristics of an artist whose glory it is to offer nothing over-prominent, and who keeps
the middle path of perfection, is impossible. As complete health may be termed the absence
of obtrusive sensation, as virtue has been called the just proportion between two opposite
extravagances, so is Titian's art a golden mean of joy unbroken by brusque movements of the
passions--a well-tempered harmony in which no thrilling note suggests the possibility of discord.
In his work the world and men cease to be merely what they are; he makes them what they ought
to be: and this he does by separating what is beautiful in sensuous life from its alloy of
painful meditation and of burdensome endeavour. The disease of thought is unknown in his kingdom;
no divisions exist between the spirit and the flesh; the will is thwarted by no obstacles.
When we think of Titian, we are irresistibly led to think of music. His "Assumption of Madonna"
(the greatest single oil-painting in the world, if we except Raphael's "Madonna di San Sisto")
can best be described as a symphony--a symphony of colour, where every hue is brought into
harmonious combination--a symphony of movement, where every line contributes to melodious rhythm--a
symphony of light without a cloud--a symphony of joy in which the heavens and earth sing Hallelujah.
Tintoretto, in the Scuola di San Rocco, painted an "Assumption of the Virgin" with characteristic
energy and impulsiveness. A group of agitated men around an open tomb, a rush of air and clash
of seraph wings above, a blaze of glory, a woman borne with sideways-swaying figure from darkness
into light;--that is his picture, all brio, excitement, speed. Quickly conceived, hastily executed,
this painting (so far as clumsy restoration suffers us to judge) bears the impress of its author's
impetuous genius. But Titian worked by a different method. On the earth, among the Apostles,
there is action enough and passion; ardent faces straining upward, impatient men raising impotent
arms and vainly divesting themselves of their mantles, as though they too might follow her
they love. In heaven is radiance, half eclipsing the archangel who holds the crown, and revealing
the father of spirits in an aureole of golden fire. Between earth and heaven, amid choirs of
angelic children, rises the mighty mother of the faith of Christ, who was Mary and is now a
goddess, ecstatic yet tranquil, not yet accustomed to the skies, but far above the grossness
and the incapacities of earth. Her womanhood is so complete that those for whom the meaning
of her Catholic legend is lost, may hail in her humanity personified.

The grand manner can reach no further than in this picture--serene, composed, meditated, enduring,
yet full of dramatic force and of profound feeling. Whatever Titian chose to touch, whether
it was classical mythology or portrait, history or sacred subject, he treated in this large
and healthful style. It is easy to tire of Veronese; it is possible to be fatigued by Tintoretto.
Titian, like nature, waits not for moods or humours in the spectator. He gives to the mind
joy of which it can never weary, pleasures that cannot satiate, a satisfaction not to be repented
of, a sweetness that will not pall. The least instructed and the simple feel his influence
as strongly as the wise or learned.

In the course of this attempt to describe the specific qualities of Tintoretto, Veronese, and
Titian, I have been more at pains to distinguish differences than to point out similarities.
What they had in common was the Renaissance spirit as this formed itself in Venice. Nowhere
in Italy was art more wholly emancipated from obedience to ecclesiastical traditions, without
losing the character of genial and natural piety. Nowhere was the Christian history treated
with a more vivid realism, harmonised more simply with pagan mythology, or more completely
purged of mysticism. The Umbrian devotion felt by Raphael in his boyhood, the prophecy of Savonarola,
and the Platonism of Ficino absorbed by Michael Angelo at Florence, the scientific preoccupations
of Lionardo and the antiquarian interests of Mantegna, were all alike unknown at Venice. Among
the Venetian painters there was no conflict between art and religion, or art and curiosity--no
reaction against previous pietism, no perplexity of conscience, no confusion of aims. Titian,
Tintoretto, and Veronese were children of the people, men of the world, men of pleasure; wealthy,
urbane, independent, pious:--they were all these by turns; but they were never mystics, scholars,
or philosophers. In their aesthetic ideal religion found a place, nor was sensuality rejected;
but the religion was sane and manly, the sensuality was vigorous and virile. Not the intellectual
greatness of the Renaissance, but its happiness and freedom, was what they represented.

FOOTNOTES:

[265] From the beginning of Julian and Maddalo, which relates a ride taken by Shelley with
Lord Byron, on the Lido, and their visit to the madhouse on its neighbouring island. The description,
richly coloured and somewhat confused in detail, seems to me peculiarly true to Venetian scenery.
With the exception of Tunis, I know of no such theatre for sunset-shows as Venice. Tunis has
the same elements of broad lagoons and distant hills, but not the same vaporous atmosphere.

[266] Lettere di Messer Pietro Aretino, Parigi, MDCIX, lib. iii. p. 48. I have made a paraphrase
rather than a translation of this rare and curious description.

[267] See Yriarte, Un Patricien de Venise, p. 439.

[268] See above, Chapter IV, Political Doctrine expressed in Fresco.

[269] See Vol. I., Age of the Despots, p. 183.

[270] I must refer my readers to Crowe and Cavalcaselle for an estimate of the influence exercised
at Venice by Gentile de Fabriano, John Alamannus, and the school of Squarcione. Antonello da
Messina brought his method of oil-painting into the city in 1470, and Gian Bellini learned
something at Padua from Andrea Mantegna. The true point about Venice, however, is that the
Venetian character absorbed, assimilated, and converted to its own originality whatever touched it.

[271] The conditions of art in Flanders--wealthy, bourgeois, proud, free--were not dissimilar
to those of art in Venice. The misty flats of Belgium have some of the atmospheric qualities
of Venice. As Van Eyck is to the Vivarini, so is Rubens to Paolo Veronese. This expresses the
amount of likeness and of difference.

[272] Jacopo and his sons Gentile and Giovanni.

[273] Notice particularly the Contadina type of S. Catherine in a picture ascribed to Cordegliaghi
in the Venetian Academy.

[274] These Scuole were the halls of meeting for companies called by the names of patron saints.

[275] Notice in particular, from the series of pictures illustrating the legend of S. Ursula,
the very beautiful faces and figures of the saint herself, and her young bridegroom, the Prince
of Britain. Attendant squires and pages in these paintings have all the charm of similar subordinate
personages in Pinturicchio, with none of his affectation.

[276] The most beautiful of these angiolini, with long flakes of flaxen hair falling from their
foreheads, are in a Sacra Conversazione of Carpaccio's in the Academy. Gian Bellini's, in many
similar pictures, are of the same delicacy.

[277] What follows above about Giorgione is advanced with diffidence, since the name of no
other great painter has been so freely used to cover the works of his inferiors.

[278] Lord Lansdowne's Giorgionesque picture of a young man crowned with vine, playing and
singing to two girls in a garden, for example. The celebrated Concert of the Louvre Gallery,
so charming for its landscape and so voluptuous in its dreamy sense of Arcadian luxury, is
given by Crowe and Cavalcaselle to an imitator of Sebastian del Piombo. See History of Painting
in North Italy, vol. ii. p. 147.

[279] Under the fire of Crowe and Cavalcaselle's destructive criticism, it would require more
real courage than I possess to speak of the "Entombment" in the Monte di Pietà at Treviso as
genuine. Coarse and unselect as are the types of the boy angels, as well as of the young athletic
giant, who plays the part in it of the dead Christ, this is a truly grandiose and striking
picture. Nothing proves the average greatness of the Venetian masters more than the possibility
of attributing such compositions to obscure and subordinate craftsmen of the school.

[280] Crowe and Cavalcaselle assign this picture with some confidence and with fair show of
reason, to Cariani, on whom again they father the frescoes at Colleoni's Castle of Malpaga.
I have ventured to notice it above in connection with Giorgione, since it exhibits some of
the most striking Giorgionesque qualities, and shows the ascendency of his imagination over
the Venetian School.

[281] Giorgione, b. 1478; d. 1511. Titian, b. 1477, d. 1576. Tintoretto, b. 1512; d. 1594.
Veronese, b. 1530; d. 1588.

[282] I cannot, for example, imagine Veronese painting anything like Rubens' two pictures of
the "Last Judgment" at Munich.

[283] For his sacred types see the "Marriage at Cana" in the Louvre, the little "Crucifixion"
and the "Baptism" of the Pitti, and the "Martyrdom of S. Agata" in the Uffizzi.

[284] These examples are mostly chosen from the Scuola di S. Rocco and the church of S. Maria
dell' Orto at Venice; also from "Pietàs," in the Brera and the Pitti, the "Paradise" of the
Ducal Palace, and a sketch for "Paradise" in the Louvre.

[285] S. Maria dell' Orto.

[286] What is here said about Tintoretto is also true of Michael Angelo. His sculpture in S.
Lorenzo, compared with Greek sculpture, the norm and canon of the perfect in that art, may
be called an invasion of the realm of poetry or music.

[287] There are probably not few of my readers who, after seeing this painting in the Ducal
Palace, will agree with me that it is, if not the greatest, at any rate the most beautiful,
oil picture in existence. In no other picture has a poem of feeling and of fancy, a romance
of varied lights and shades, a symphony of delicately blended hues, a play of attitude and
movement transitory but in no sense forced or violent, been more successfully expressed by
means more simple or with effect more satisfying. Something of the mythopoeic faculty must
have survived in Tintoretto, and enabled him to inspire the Greek tale with this intense vitality
of beauty.

[288] The first of these pictures is in the Ducal Palace, the other two in the Academy at Venice.

The life of Italian artists at the time of the Renaissance may be illustrated by two biographies.
Michael Angelo Buonarroti and Benvenuto Cellini were almost opposite in all they thought and
felt, experienced and aimed at. The one impressed his own strong personality on art; the other
reflected the light and shadow of the age in the record of his manifold existence. Cellini
hovered, like some strong-winged creature, on the surface of human activity, yielding himself
to every impulse, seeking every pleasure, and of beauty feeling only the rude animal compulsion.
Deep philosophic thoughts, ideas of death and judgment, the stern struggles of the soul, encompassed
Michael Angelo; the service of beauty was with him religion. Cellini was the creature of the
moment--the glass and mirror of corrupt, enslaved, yet still resplendent Italy. In Michael
Angelo the genius of the Renaissance culminated; but his character was rather that of an austere
Republican, free and solitary amid the multitudes of slaves and courtiers. Michael Angelo made
art the vehicle of lofty and soul-shaking thought. Cellini brought the fervour of an inexhaustibly
active nature to the service of sensuality, and taught his art to be the handmaid of a soulless
paganism. In these two men, therefore, we study two aspects of their age. How far both were
exceptional, need not here be questioned; since their singularity consists not so much in being
different from other Italians of the sixteenth century as in concentrating qualities elsewhere
scattered and imperfect.

Michael Angelo was born in 1475 at Caprese, among the mountains of the Casentino, where his
father Lodovico held the office of Podestà. His ancestry was honourable: the Buonarroti even
claimed descent, but apparently without due reason, from the princely house of Canossa.[289]
His mother gave him to be suckled by a stone-cutter's wife at Settignano, so that in after
days he used to say that he had drawn in the love of chisels and mallets with his nurse's milk.
As he grew, the boy developed an invincible determination towards the arts. Lodovico from motives
of pride and prudence opposed his wishes, but without success. Michael Angelo made friends
with the lad Granacci, who was apprenticed to Domenico Ghirlandajo, and at last induced his
father to sign articles for him to the same painter. In Ghirlandajo's workshop he learned the
rudiments of art, helping in the execution of the frescoes at S. Maria Novella, until such
time as the pupil proved his superiority as a draughtsman to his teacher. The rupture between
Michael Angelo and Ghirlandajo might be compared with that between Beethoven and Haydn. In
both cases a proud, uncompromising, somewhat scornful student sought aid from a master great
in his own line but inferior in fire and originality of genius.[290] In both cases the moment
came when pupil and teacher perceived that the eagle could no longer be confined within the
hawk's nest, and that henceforth it must sweep the skies alone. After leaving Ghirlandajo's
bottega at the age of sixteen, Michael Angelo did in truth thenceforward through his life pursue
his art alone. Granacci procured him an introduction to the Medici, and the two friends together
frequented those gardens of S. Marco where Lorenzo had placed his collection of antiquities.
There the youth discovered his vocation. Having begged a piece of marble and a chisel, he struck
out the Faun's mask that still is seen in the Bargello. It is worth noticing that Michael Angelo
seems to have done no merely prentice-work. Not a fragment of his labour from the earliest
to the latest was insignificant, and only such thoughts as he committed to the perishable materials
of bronze or paper have been lost. There was nothing tentative in his genius. Into art, as
into a rich land, he came and conquered. In like manner, the first sonnet composed by Dante
is scarcely less precious than the last lines of the "Paradiso." This is true of all the highest
artistic natures, who need no preparations and have no period of groping.

Lorenzo de' Medici discerned in Michael Angelo a youth of eminent genius, and took the lad
into his own household. The astonished father found himself suddenly provided with a comfortable
post and courted for the sake of the young sculptor. In Lorenzo's palace the real education
of Michael Angelo began. He sat at the same table with Ficino, Pico, and Poliziano, listening
to dialogues on Plato and drinking in the golden poetry of Greece. Greek literature and philosophy,
expounded by the men who had discovered them, and who were no less proud of their discovery
than Columbus of his passage to the Indies, first moulded his mind to those lofty thoughts
which it became the task of his life to express in form. At the same time he heard the preaching
of Savonarola. In the Duomo and the cloister of S. Marco another portion of his soul was touched,
and he acquired that deep religious tone which gives its majesty and terror to the Sistine.
Much in the same way was Milton educated by the classics in conjunction with the Scriptures.
Both of these austere natures assimilated from pagan art and Jewish prophecy the twofold elements
they needed for their own imaginative life. Both Michael Angelo and Milton, in spite of their
parade of classic style, were separated from the Greek world by a gulf of Hebrew and of Christian
feeling.

While Michael Angelo was thus engaged in studying antique sculpture and in listening to Pico
and Savonarola, he carved his first bas-relief--a "Battle of Hercules with the Centaurs," suggested
to him by Poliziano.[291] Meantime Lorenzo died. His successor Piero set the young man, it
is said, to model a snow statue, and then melted like a shape of snow himself down from his
pedestal of power in Florence. Upon the expulsion of the tyrant and the proclamation of the
new republic, it was dangerous for house-friends of the Casa Medici to be seen in the city.
Michael Angelo, therefore, made his way to Bologna, where he spent some months in the palace
of Gian Francesco Aldovrandini, studying Dante and working at an angel for the shrine of S.
Dominic. As soon, however, as it seemed safe to do so, he returned to Florence; and to this
period belongs the statue of the "Sleeping Cupid," which was sold as an antique to the Cardinal
Raffaello Riario.

A dispute about the price of this "Cupid" took Michael Angelo in 1496 to Rome, where it was
destined that the greater portion of his life should he spent, and his noblest works of art
should be produced. Here, while the Borgias were turning the Vatican into a den of thieves
and harlots, he executed the purest of all his statues--a "Pietà" in marble.[292] Christ is
lying dead upon his mother's knees. With her right arm she supports his shoulders; her left
hand is gently raised as though to say, "Behold and see!" All that art can do to make death
beautiful and grief sublime, is achieved in this masterpiece, which was never surpassed by
Michael Angelo in later years. Already, at the age of four-and-twenty, he had matured his "terrible
manner." Already were invented in his brain that race of superhuman beings, who became the
hieroglyphs of his impassioned utterance. Madonna has the small head and heroic torso used
by this master to symbolise force. We feel she has no difficulty in holding the dead Christ
upon her ample lap and in her powerful arms. Yet while the "Pietà" is wholly Michael Angelesque,
we find no lack of repose, none of those contorted lines that are commonly urged against his
manner. It is a sober and harmonious composition, combining the profoundest religious feeling
with classical tranquillity of expression. Again, though the group is forcibly original, this
effect of originality is produced, as in all the best work of the golden age, not by new and
startling conception, but by the handling of an old and well-worn motive with the grandeur
of consummate style. What the genius of Italian sculpture had for generations been striving
after, finds its perfect realisation here. It was precisely by thus crowning the endeavours
of antecedent artists--by bringing the opening buds of painting and sculpture to full blossom,
and exhausting the resources of a long sustained and common inspiration, that the great masters
proved their supremacy and rendered an advance beyond their vantage ground impossible. To those
who saw and comprehended this "Pietà" in 1500, it must have been evident that a new power of
portraying the very soul had been manifested in sculpture--a power unknown to the Greeks because
it lay outside the sphere of their spiritual experience, and unknown to modern artists because
it was beyond their faculties of execution and conception. Yet who in Rome, among the courtiers
of the Borgias, had brain or heart to understand these things?

In 1501 Michael Angelo returned to Florence, where he stayed until the year 1505. This period
was fruitful of results on which his after fame depended. The great statue of "David," the
two unfinished medallions of Madonna in relief, the "Holy Family of the Tribune" painted for
Angelo Doni, and the Cartoon of the "Battle of Pisa" were now produced; and no man's name,
not even Lionardo's, stood higher in esteem thenceforward. It will be remembered that Savonarola
was now dead, but that his constitution still existed under the presidency of Pietro Soderini--the
non mai abbastanza lodato Cavaliere, as Pitti calls him, the anima sciocca of Machiavelli's
epigram.[293] Since Michael Angelo at this time was employed in the service of masters who
had superseded his old friends and patrons, it may be well to review here his attitude in general
toward the house of Medici. Throughout his lifetime there continued a conflict between the
artist and the citizen--the artist owing education and employment to successive members of
that house, the citizen resenting their despotism and doing all that in him lay at times to
keep them out of Florence.

As an artist, owing his advancement to Lorenzo, he had accepted favours binding him by ties
of gratitude to the Medici, and even involving him in the downfall of their house. For Leo
X. he undertook to build the façade of S. Lorenzo and the Laurentian Library. For Clement VII.
he began the statues of the Dukes of Urbino and Nemours. Yet, while accepting these commissions
from Medicean Popes, he could not keep his tongue from speaking openly against their despotism.
After the sack of Prato it appears from his correspondence that he had exposed himself to danger
by some expression of indignation.[296] This was in 1512, when Soderini fled and left the gates
of Florence open to the Cardinal Giovanni de' Medici. During the siege of Florence in 1529
he fortified Samminiato, and allowed himself to be named one of the Otto di Guerra chosen for
the express purpose of defending Florence against the Medici.[297] After the fall of the city
he made peace with Clement by consenting to finish the tombs of S. Lorenzo. Yet, while doing
all he could to save those insignificant dukes from oblivion by the immortality of his art,
Michael Angelo was conscious of his own and his country's shame.

When Clement VII. died, the last real representative of Michael Angelo's old patrons perished,
and the sculptor was free to quit Florence for ever. During the reign of Duke Cosimo he never
set foot in his native city. It is thus clear that the patriot, the artist, and the man of
honour were at odds in him. Loyalty obliged him to serve the family to whom he owed so much;
he was, moreover, dependent for opportunities of doing great work on the very men whose public
policy he execrated. Hence arose a compromise and a confusion, hard to accommodate with our
conception of his upright and unyielding temper. Only by voluntary exile, and after age had
made him stubborn to resist seductive offers, could Michael Angelo act up to the promptings
of his heart and declare himself a citizen who held no truce with tyrants. I have already in
this work had occasion to compare Dante, Michael Angelo, and Machiavelli.[299] In estimating
the conduct of the two last, it must not be forgotten that, by the action of inevitable causes,
republican freedom had become in Italy a thing of the past; and in judging between Machiavelli
and Michael Angelo, we have to remember that the sculptor's work involved no sacrifice of principle
or self-respect. Carving statues for the tombs of Medicean dukes was a different matter from
dedicating the "Prince" to them.

This digression, though necessary for the right understanding of Michael Angelo's relation
to the Medici, has carried me beyond his Florentine residence in 1501-1505. The great achievement
of that period was not the "David" but the Cartoon for the "Battle of Pisa."[300] The hall
of the Consiglio Grande had been opened, and one wall had been assigned to Lionardo. Michael
Angelo was now invited by the Signory to prepare a design for another side of the state-chamber.
When he displayed his cartoon to the Florentines, they pronounced that Da Vinci, hitherto the
undisputed prince of painting, was surpassed. It is impossible for us to form an opinion on
this matter, since both cartoons are lost beyond recovery.[301] We only know that, as Cellini
says, "while they lasted, they formed the school of the whole world,"[302] and made an epoch
in the history of art. When we inquire what was the subject of Michael Angelo's famous picture,
we find that he had aimed at representing nothing of more moment than a group of soldiers suddenly
surprised by a trumpet-call to battle, while bathing in the Arno--a crowd of naked men in every
posture indicating haste, anxiety, and struggle. Not for its intellectual meaning, not for
its colour, not for its sentiment, was this design so highly prized. Its science won the admiration
of artists and the public. At this period of the Renaissance the bold and perfect drawing of
the body gave an exquisite delight. Hence, perhaps, Vasari's vapid talk about "stravaganti
attitudini," "divine figure," "scorticamenti," and so forth--as if the soul of figurative art
were in such matters. The science of Michael Angelo, which in his own mind was sternly subordinated
to thought, had already turned the weaker heads of his generation.[303] A false ideal took
possession of the fancy, and such criticism as that of Vasari and Pietro Aretino became inevitable.

Meanwhile, a new Pope had been elected, and in 1505 Michael Angelo was once more called to
Rome. Throughout his artist's life he oscillated thus between Rome and Florence--Florence the
city of his ancestry, and Rome the city of his soul; Florence where he learnt his art, and
Rome where he displayed what art can do of highest. Julius was a patron of different stamp
from Lorenzo the Magnificent. He was not learned in book-lore: "Place a sword in my hand!"
he said to the sculptor at Bologna: "of letters I know nothing." Yet he was no less capable
of discerning excellence than the Medici himself, and his spirit strove incessantly after the
accomplishment of vast designs. Both worked con furia, with the impetuosity of daemonic natures;
and both left the impress of their individuality graven indelibly upon their age.

Julius ordered the sculptor to prepare his mausoleum. Michael Angelo asked, "Where am I to
place it?" Julius replied, "In S. Peter's." But the old basilica of Christendom was too small
for this ambitious pontiff's sepulchre, designed by the audacious artist. It was therefore
decreed that a new S. Peter's should be built to hold it. In this way the two great labours
of Buonarroti's life were mapped out for him in a moment. But, by a strange contrariety of
fate, to Bramante and San Gallo fell respectively the planning and the spoiling of S. Peter's.
It was only in extreme old age that Michael Angelo crowned it with that world's miracle, the
dome. The mausoleum, to form a canopy for which the building was designed, dwindled down at
last to the statue of "Moses" thrust out of the way in the church of S. Pietro in Vincoli.
"La tragedia della Sepoltura," as Condivi aptly terms the history of Giulio's monument, began
thus in 1505 and dragged on till 1545.[304] Rarely did Michael Angelo undertake a work commensurate
with his creative power, but something came to interrupt its execution; while tasks outside
his sphere, for which he never bargained--the painting of the Sistine Chapel, the façade of
S. Lorenzo, the fortification of Samminiato--were thrust upon him in the midst of other more
congenial labours. What we possess of his achievement, is a torso of his huge designs.

Giulio's tomb, as he conceived it, would have been the most stupendous monument of sculpture
in the world.[305] That mountain of marble covered with figures wrought in stone and bronze,
was meant to be the sculptured poem of the thought of Death; no mere apotheosis of Pope Julius,
but a pageant of the soul triumphant over the limitations of mortality. All that dignifies
humanity--arts, sciences, and laws; the victory that crowns heroic effort; the majesty of contemplation,
and the energy of action--was symbolised upon ascending tiers of the great pyramid; while the
genii of heaven and earth upheld the open tomb, where lay the dead man waiting for the Resurrection.
Of this gigantic scheme only one imperfect drawing now remains.[306] The "Moses" and the "Bound
Captives"[307] are all that Michael Angelo accomplished. For forty years the "Moses" remained
in his workshop. For forty years he cherished a hope that his plan might still in part be executed,
complaining the while that it would have been better for him to have made sulphur matches all
his life than to have taken up the desolating artist's trade. "Every day," he cries, "I am
stoned as though I had crucified Christ. My youth has been lost, bound hand and foot to this
tomb."[308] It was decreed apparently that Michael Angelo should exist for after ages as a
fragment; and such might Pheidias among the Greeks have been, if he had worked for ephemeral
Popes and bankrupt princes instead of Pericles. Italy in the sixteenth century, dislocated,
distracted, and drained of her material resources, gave no opportunity to artists for the creation
of monuments colossal in their unity.

Michael Angelo spent eight months at this period among the stone quarries of Carrara, selecting
marble for the Pope's tomb.[309] There his brain, always teeming with gigantic conceptions,
suggested to him a new fancy. Could not the headland jutting out beyond Sarzana into the Tyrrhene
Sea be carved by his workmen into a Pharos? To transmute a mountain into a statue, holding
a city in either hand, had been the dream of a Greek artist. Michael Angelo revived the bold
thought; but to execute it would have been almost beyond his power. Meanwhile, in November
1505, the marble was shipped, and the quays of Rome were soon crowded with blocks destined
for the mausoleum. But when the sculptor arrived, he found that enemies had been poisoning
the Pope's mind against him, and that Julius had abandoned the scheme of the mausoleum. On
six successive days he was denied entrance to the Vatican, and the last time with such rudeness
that he determined to quit Rome.[310] He hurried straightway to his house, sold his effects,
mounted, and rode without further ceremony toward Florence, sending to the Pope a written message
bidding him to seek for Michael Angelo elsewhere in future than in Rome. It is related that
Julius, anxious to recover what had been so lightly lost, sent several couriers to bring him
back.[311] Michael Angelo announced that he intended to accept the Sultan's commission for
building a bridge at Pera, and refused to be persuaded to return to Rome. This was at Poggibonsi.
When he had reached Florence, Julius addressed, himself to Soderini, who, unwilling to displease
the Pope, induced Michael Angelo to seek the pardon of the master he had so abruptly quitted.
By that time Julius had left the city for the camp; and when Michael Angelo finally appeared
before him, fortified with letters from the Signory of Florence, it was at Bologna that they
met. "You have waited thus long, it seems," said the Pope, well satisfied but surly, "till
we should come ourselves to seek you." The prelate who had introduced the sculptor now began
to make excuses for him, whereupon Julius turned in a fury upon the officious courtier, and
had him beaten from his presence. A few days after this encounter Michael Angelo was ordered
to cast a bronze statue of Julius for the frontispiece of S. Petronio. The sculptor objected
that brass-foundry was not his affair. "Never mind," said Julius; "get to work, and we will
cast your statue till it comes out perfect."[312] Michael Angelo did as he was bid, and the
statue was set up in 1508 above the great door of the church. The Pope was seated, with his
right hand raised; in the other were the keys. When Julius asked him whether he was meant to
bless or curse the Bolognese with that uplifted hand, Buonarroti found an answer worthy of
a courtier: "Your Holiness is threatening this people, if it be not wise." Less than four years
afterwards Julius lost his hold upon Bologna, the party of the Bentivogli returned to power,
and the statue was destroyed. A bronze cannon, called the "Giulia," was made out of Michael
Angelo's masterpiece by the best gunsmith of his century, Alfonso Duke of Ferrara.

It seems that Michael Angelo's flight from Rome in 1506 was due not only to his disappointment
about the tomb, but also to his fear lest Julius should give him uncongenial work to do. Bramante,
if we may believe the old story, had whispered that it was ill-omened for a man to build his
own sepulchre, and that it would be well to employ the sculptor's genius upon the ceiling of
the Sistine Chapel. Accordingly, on his return to Rome in 1508, this new task was allotted
him. In vain did Michael Angelo remind his master of the months wasted in the quarries of Carrara;
in vain he pointed to his designs for the monument, and pleaded that he was not a painter by
profession.[313] Julius had made up his mind that he should paint the Sistine. Was not the
cartoon at Florence a sufficient proof that he could do this if he chose, and had he not learned
the art of fresco in the bottega of his master Ghirlandajo? Whatever his original reluctance
may have been, it was speedily overcome; and the cartoons for the ceiling, projected with the
unity belonging to a single great conception, were ready by the summer of 1508.[314]

The difficulty of his new task aroused the artist's energy. If we could accept the legend,
whereby contemporaries expressed their admiration for this Titanic labour, we should have to
believe the impossible--that Michael Angelo ground his own colours, prepared his own plaster,
and completed with his own hand the whole work, after having first conquered the obstacles
of scaffolding and vault-painting by machines of his own invention,[315] and that only twenty
months were devoted to the execution of a series of paintings almost unequalled in their delicacy,
and surpassed by few single masterpieces in extent. What may be called the mythus of the Sistine
Chapel has at last been finally disproved, partly by the personal observations of Mr. Heath
Wilson, and partly by the publication of Michael Angelo's correspondence.[316] Though some
uncertainty remains as to the exact dates of the commencement and completion of the vault,
we now know that Michael Angelo continued painting it at intervals during four successive years;
and though we are not accurately informed about his helpers, we no longer can doubt that able
craftsmen yielded him assistance. On May 10, 1508, he signed a receipt for five hundred ducats
advanced by Julius for the necessary expenses of the undertaking; and on the next day he paid
ten ducats to a mason for rough plastering and surface-finishing applied to the vault. There
is good reason to believe that he began his painting during the autumn of 1508. On November
1, 1509, a certain portion was uncovered to the public; and before the end of the year 1512
the whole was completed. Thus, though the legend of Vasari and Condivi has been stripped of
the miraculous by careful observation and keen-sighted criticism, enough remains to justify
the sense of wonder that expressed itself in their exaggerated statements. No one but Michael
Angelo could have done what he did in the Sistine Chapel. The conception was entirely his own.
The execution, except in subordinate details and in matters pertaining to the mason's craft,
was also his. The rapidity with which he laboured was astounding. Mr. Heath Wilson infers from
the condition of the plaster and the joinings observable in different parts, that the figure
of Adam, highly finished as it is, was painted in three days. Nor need we strip the romance
from that time-honoured tale of the great master's solitude. Lying on his back beneath the
dreary vault, communing with Dante, Savonarola, and the Hebrew prophets in the intervals of
labour, locking up the chapel-doors in order to elude the jealous curiosity of rivals, eating
but little and scarcely sleeping, he accomplished in sixteen months the first part of his gigantic
task.[317] From time to time Julius climbed the scaffold and inspected the painter's progress.
Dreading lest death should come before the work were finished, he kept crying, "When will you
make an end?" "When I can," answered the painter. "You seem to want," rejoined the petulant
old man, "that I should have you thrown down from the scaffold." Then Michael Angelo's brush
stopped. The machinery was removed, and the frescoes were uncovered in their incompleteness
to the eyes of Rome.

Entering the Cappella Sistina, and raising our eyes to sweep the roof, we have above us a long
and somewhat narrow oblong space, vaulted with round arches, and covered from end to end, from
side to side, with a network of human forms. The whole is coloured like the dusky, tawny, blueish
clouds of thunderstorms. There is no luxury of decorative art;--no gold, no paint-box of vermilion
or emerald green, has been lavished here. Sombre and aërial, like shapes condensed from vapour,
or dreams begotten by Ixion upon mists of eve or dawn, the phantoms evoked by the sculptor
throng that space. Nine compositions, carrying down the sacred history from the creation of
light to the beginning of sin in Noah's household, fill the central compartments of the roof.
Beneath these, seated on the spandrils, are alternate prophets and sibyls, twelve in all, attesting
to the future deliverance and judgment of the world by Christ. The intermediate spaces between
these larger masses, on the roof and in the lunettes of the windows, swarm with figures, some
naked and some draped--women and children, boys and young men, grouped in tranquil attitudes,
or adapting themselves with freedom to their station on the curves and angles of the architecture.
In these subordinate creations Michael Angelo deigned to drop the terrible style, in order
that he might show how sweet and full of charm his art could be. The grace of colouring, realised
in some of those youthful and athletic forms, is such as no copy can represent. Every posture
of beauty and of strength, simple or strained, that it is possible for men to assume, has been
depicted here. Yet the whole is governed by a strict sense of sobriety. The restlessness of
Correggio, the violent attitudinising of Tintoretto, belong alike to another and less noble spirit.

To speak adequately of these form-poems would be quite impossible. Buonarroti seems to have
intended to prove by them that the human body has a language, inexhaustible in symbolism--every
limb, every feature, and every attitude being a word full of significance to those who comprehend,
just as music is a language whereof each note and chord and phrase has correspondence with
the spiritual world. It may be presumptuous after this fashion to interpret the design of him
who called into existence the heroic population of the Sistine. Yet Michael Angelo has written
lines which in some measure justify the reading.

Therefore to him a well-shaped hand, or throat, or head, a neck superbly poised on an athletic
chest, the sway of the trunk above the hips, the starting of the muscles on the flank, the
tendons of the ankle, the outline of the shoulder when the arm is raised, the backward bending
of the loins, the curves of a woman's breast, the contours of a body careless in repose or
strained for action, were all words pregnant with profoundest meaning, whereby fit utterance
might be given to the thoughts that raise man near to God. But, it may be asked, what poems
of action as well as feeling are to be expressed in this form-language? The answer is simple.
Paint or carve the body of a man, and, as you do it nobly, you will give the measure of both
highest thought and most impassioned deed. This is the key to Michael Angelo's art. He cared
but little for inanimate nature. The landscapes of Italy, so eloquent in their sublimity and
beauty, were apparently a blank to him. His world was the world of ideas, taking visible form,
incarnating themselves in man. One language the master had to serve him in all need--the language
of plastic human form; but it was to him a tongue as rich in its variety of accent and of intonation
as Beethoven's harmonies.

In the Sistine Chapel, where plastic art is so supreme, we are bound to ask the further question.
What was the difference between Michael Angelo and a Greek? The Parthenon with its processions
of youths and maidens, its gods and heroes, rejoicing in their strength, and robed with raiment
that revealed their living form, made up a symphony of meaning as full as this of Michael Angelo,
and far more radiant. The Greek sculptor embraced humanity in his work no less comprehensively
than the Italian; and what he had to say was said more plainly in the speech they both could
use. But between Pheidias and Michael Angelo lay Christianity, the travail of the world through
twenty centuries. Clear as morning, and calm in the unconsciousness of beauty, are those heroes
of the youth of Hellas. All is grace, repose, strength shown but not asserted. Michael Angelo's
Sibyls and Prophets are old and wrinkled, bowed with thought, consumed by vigils, startled
from tranquillity by visions, overburdened with the messages of God. The loveliest among them,
the Delphic, lifts dilated eyes, as though to follow dreams that fly upon the paths of trance.
Even the young men strain their splendid limbs, and seem to shout or shriek, as if the life
in them contained some element of pain. "He maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a
flame of fire:" this verse rises to our lips when we seek to describe the genii that crowd
the cornice of the Sistine Chapel. The human form in the work of Pheidias wore a joyous and
sedate serenity; in that of Michael Angelo it is turbid with a strange and awful sense of inbreathed
agitation. Through the figure-language of the one was spoken the pagan creed, bright, unperturbed,
and superficial. The sculpture of the Parthenon accomplished the transfiguration of the natural
man. In the other man awakes to a new life of contest, disillusionment, hope, dread, and heavenward
striving. It was impossible for the Greek and the Italian, bearing so different a burden of
prophecy, even though they used the same speech, to tell the same tale; and this should be
remembered by those critics who cast exaggeration and contortion in the teeth of Michael Angelo.
Between the birth of the free spirit in Greece and its second birth in Italy, there yawned
a sepulchre wherein the old faiths of the world lay buried and whence Christ had risen.[318]

The star of Raphael, meanwhile, had arisen over Rome. Between the two greatest painters of
their age the difference was striking. Michael Angelo stood alone, his own master, fashioned
in his own school. A band of artists called themselves by Raphael's name; and in his style
we trace the influence of several predecessors. Michael Angelo rarely received visits, frequented
no society, formed no pupils, and boasted of no friends at Court. Raphael was followed to the
Vatican by crowds of students; his levées were like those of a prince; he counted among his
intimates the best scholars and poets of the age; his hand was pledged in marriage to a cardinal's
niece. It does not appear that they engaged in petty rivalries, or that they came much into
personal contact with each other. While Michael Angelo was so framed that he could learn from
no man, Raphael gladly learned of Michael Angelo; and after the uncovering of the Sistine frescoes,
his manner showed evident signs of alteration. Julius, who had given Michael Angelo the Sistine,
set Raphael to work upon the Stanze. For Julius were painted the "Miracle of Bolsena" and the
"Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple," scenes containing courtly compliments for the old
Pope. No such compliments had been paid by Michael Angelo. Like his great parallel in music,
Beethoven, he displayed an almost arrogant contempt for the conventionalities whereby an artist
wins the favour of his patrons and the world.

After the death of Julius, Leo X., in character the reverse of his fiery predecessor, and by
temperament unsympathetic to the austere Michael Angelo, found nothing better for the sculptor's
genius than to set him at work upon the façade of S. Lorenzo at Florence. The better part of
the years between 1516 and 1520 was spent in quarrying marble at Carrara, Pietra Santa, and
Seravezza. This is the most arid and unfruitful period of Michael Angelo's long life, a period
of delays and thwarted schemes and servile labours. What makes the sense of disappointment
greater, is that the façade of S. Lorenzo was not even finished.[319] We hurry over this wilderness
of wasted months, and arrive at another epoch of artistic production.

Already in 1520 the Cardinal Giulio de' Medici had conceived the notion of building a sacristy
in S. Lorenzo to receive the monuments of Cosimo, the founder of the house, Lorenzo the Magnificent,
Giuliano Duke of Nemours, Lorenzo Duke of Urbino, Leo X., and himself.[320] To Michael Angelo
was committed the design, and in 1521 he began to apply himself to the work. Nine years had
now elapsed since the roof of the Sistine chapel had been finished, and during this time Michael
Angelo had produced little except the "Christ" of S. Maria sopra Minerva. This new undertaking
occupied him at intervals between 1521 and 1534, a space of time decisive for the fortunes
of the Medici in Florence. Leo died, and Giulio after a few years succeeded him as Clement
VII. The bastards of the house, Ippolito and Alessandro, were expelled from Florence in 1527.
Rome was sacked by the Imperial troops; then Michael Angelo quitted the statues and helped
to defend his native city against the Prince of Orange. After the failure of the Republicans,
he was recalled to his labours by command of Clement. Sullenly and sadly he quarried marbles
for the sacristy. Sadly and sullenly he used his chisel year by year, making the very stones
cry that shame and ruin were the doom of his country. At last in 1534 Clement died. Then Michael
Angelo flung down his mallet.

Michael Angelo left the tombs of the Medici unfinished; nor, in spite of Duke Cosimo's earnest
entreaties, would he afterwards return to Florence to complete them. Lorenzo's features are
but rough-hewn; so is the face of Night. Day seems struggling into shape beneath his mask of
rock, and Twilight shows everywhere the tooth-dint of the chisel. To leave unfinished was the
fate of Michael Angelo--partly too, perhaps, his preference; for he was easily deterred from
work. Many of his marbles are only just begun. The two medallion "Madonnas," the "Madonna and
Child" in S. Lorenzo, the "Head of Brutus," the "Bound Captives," and the "Pietà" in the Duomo
of Florence, are instances of masterpieces in the rough. He loved to fancy that the form dwelt
within the stone, and that the chisel disencumbered it of superfluity. Therefore, to his eye,
foreseeing what the shape would be when the rude envelope was chipped away, the marble mask
may have taken the appearance of a veil or mantle. He may have found some fascination in the
incompleteness that argued want of will but not of art, and a rough-hewn Madonna may have been
to him what a Dryad still enclosed within a gnarled oak was to a Greek poet's fancy. We are
not, however, justified in therefore assuming, as a recent critic has suggested, that Michael
Angelo sought to realise a certain preconceived effect by want of finish. There is enough in
the distracted circumstances of his life and in his temper, at once passionate and downcast,
to account for fragmentary and imperfect performance; nor must it be forgotten that the manual
labour of the sculptor in the sixteenth century was by no means so light as it is now. A decisive
argument against this theory is that Buonarroti's three most celebrated statues--the "Pietà"
in S. Peter's, the "Moses" and the "Dawn"--are executed with the highest polish it is possible
for stone to take.[324] That he always aimed at this high finish, but often fell below it through
discontent and ennui and the importunity of patrons, we have the best reason to believe.

Michael Angelo had now reached his fifty-ninth year. Lionardo and Raphael had already passed
away, and were remembered as the giants of a bygone age of gold. Correggio was in his last
year. Andrea del Sarto was dead. Nowhere except at Venice did Italian art still flourish; and
the mundane style of Titian was not to the sculptor's taste. He had overlived the greatness
of his country, and saw Italy in ruins. Yet he was destined to survive another thirty years,
another lifetime of Masaccio or Raphael, and to witness still worse days. When we call Michael
Angelo the interpreter of the burden and the pain of the Renaissance, we must remember this
long weary old age, during which in solitude and silence he watched the extinction of Florence,
the institution of the Inquisition, and the abasement of the Italian spirit beneath the tyranny
of Spain. His sonnets, written chiefly in this latter period of life, turn often on the thought
of death. His love of art yields to religious hope and fear, and he bemoans a youth and manhood
spent in vanity. Once when he injured his leg by a fall from the scaffolding in the Sistine
Chapel, he refused assistance, shut himself up at home, and lay waiting for deliverance in
death. His life was only saved by the forcible interference of friends.

In 1534 a new Eurystheus arose for our Hercules. The Cardinal Alessandro Farnese, a fox by
nature and infamous through his indulgence for a vicious bastard, was made Pope under the name
of Paul III.[325] Michael Angelo had shed lustre on the reigns of three Popes, his predecessors.
For thirty years the Farnese had watched him with greedy eyes. After Julius, Leo, and Clement,
the time was now come for the heroic craftsman to serve Paul. The Pope found him at work in
his bottega on the tomb of Julius; for the "tragedy of the mausoleum" still dragged on. The
statue of Moses was finished. "That," said Paul, "is enough for one Pope. Give me your contract
with the Duke of Urbino; I will tear it. Have I waited all these years; and now that I am Pope
at last, shall I not have you for myself? I want you in the Sistine Chapel." Accordingly Michael
Angelo, who had already made cartoons for the "Last Judgment" in the life of Clement, once
more laid aside the chisel and took up the brush. For eight years, between 1534 and 1542, he
laboured at the fresco above the high altar of the chapel, devoting his terrible genius to
a subject worthy of the times in which he lived. Since he had first listened while a youth
to the prophecies of Savonarola, the woes announced in that apocalypse had all come true. Italy
had been scourged, Rome sacked, the Church chastised. And yet the world had not grown wiser;
vice was on the increase, virtue grew more rare.[326] It was impossible after the experience
of the immediate past and within view of the present and the future, to conceive of God as
other than an angry judge, vindictive and implacable.

The "Last Judgment" has long been the most celebrated of Michael Angelo's paintings; partly
no doubt because it was executed in the plenitude of his fame, with the eyes of all Italy upon
him; partly because its size arouses vulgar wonder, and its theme strikes terror into all who
gaze on it. Yet it is neither so strong nor so beautiful as the vault-paintings of the Sistine.
The freshness of the genius that created Eve and Adam, unrivalled in their bloom of primal
youth, has passed away. Austerity and gloom have taken possession of the painter. His style
has hardened into mannerism, and the display of barren science in difficult posturing and strained
anatomy has become wilful. Still, whether we regard this fresco as closing the long series
of "Last Judgments" to be studied on Italian church-walls from Giotto downwards; or whether
we confine our attention, as contemporaries seem to have done, to the skill of its foreshortenings
and groupings;[327] or whether we analyse the dramatic energy wherewith tremendous passions
are expressed, its triumph is in either case decided. The whole wall swarms with ascending
and descending, poised and hovering, shapes--men and women rising from the grave before the
judge, taking their stations among the saved, or sinking with unutterable anguish to the place
of doom--a multitude that no man can number, surging to and fro in dim tempestuous air. In
the centre at the top, Christ is rising from His throne with the gesture of an angry Hercules,
hurling ruin on the guilty. He is such as the sins of Italy have made Him. Squadrons of angels,
bearing the emblems of His passion, whirl around Him like grey thunder-clouds, and all the
saints lean forward from their vantage ground to curse and threaten. At the very bottom bestial
features take the place of human lineaments, and the terror of judgment has become the torment
of damnation. Such is the general scope of this picture. Of all its merits, none is greater
than the delineation of uncertainty and gradual awakening to life. The middle region between
vigilance and slumber, reality and dream, Michael Angelo ruled as his own realm; and a painting
of the "Last Judgment" enabled him to deal with this metaichmios skotos--this darkness in the
interval of crossing spears--under its most solemn aspect.

When the fresco was uncovered, there arose a general murmur of disapprobation that the figures
were all nude. As society became more vicious, it grew nice. Messer Biagio, the Pope's master
of the ceremonies, remarked that such things were more fit for stews and taverns than a chapel.
The angry painter placed his portrait in Hell with a mark of infamy that cast too lurid a light
upon this prudish speech. When Biagio complained, Paul wittily answered that, had it been Purgatory,
he might have helped him, but in Hell is no redemption. Even the foul-mouthed and foul-hearted
Aretino wrote from Venice to the same effect--a letter astounding for its impudence.[328] Michael
Angelo made no defence. Perhaps he reflected that the souls of the Pope himself and Messer
Biagio and Messer Pietro Aretino would go forth one day naked to appear before the judge, with
the deformities of sin upon them, as in Plato's "Gorgias." He refused, however, to give clothes
to his men and women. Daniel da Volterra, who was afterwards employed to do this, got the name
of breeches-maker.

We are hardly able to appreciate the "Last Judgment;" it has been so smirched and blackened
by the smoke and dust of centuries. And this is true of the whole Sistine Chapel.[329] Yet
it is here that the genius of Michael Angelo in all its terribleness must still be studied.
In order to characterise the impression produced by even the less awful of these frescoes on
a sympathetic student, I lay my pen aside and beg the reader to weigh what Henri Beyle, the
versatile and brilliant critic, pencilled in the gallery of the Sistine Chapel on January 13,
1807:[330] "Greek sculpture was unwilling to reproduce the terrible in any shape; the Greeks
had enough real troubles of their own. Therefore, in the realm of art, nothing can be compared
with the figure of the Eternal drawing forth the first man from nonentity. The pose, the drawing,
the drapery, all is striking: the soul is agitated by sensations that are not usually communicated
through the eyes. Great souls enjoy their own greatness: the rest of the world is seized with
fear, and goes mad."

After the painting of the "Last Judgment," one more great labour was reserved for Michael Angelo.[331]
By a brief of September, 1535, Paul III. had made him the chief architect as well as sculptor
and painter of the Holy See. He was now called upon to superintend the building of S. Peter's,
and to this task, undertaken for the repose of his soul without emolument, he devoted the last
years of his life. The dome of S. Peter's, as seen from Tivoli or the Alban hills, like a cloud
upon the Campagna, is Buonarroti's; but he has no share in the façade that screens it from
the piazza. It lies beyond the scope of this chapter to relate once more the history of the
vicissitudes through which S. Peter's went between the days of Alberti and Bernini.[332] I
can but refer to Michael Angelo's letter addressed to Bartolommeo Ammanati, valuable both as
setting forth his views about the structure, and as rendering the fullest and most glorious
meed of praise to his old enemy Bramante.[333] All ancient jealousies, even had they ever stirred
the heart of Michael Angelo, had long been set at rest by time and death. The one wish of his
soul was to set a worthy diadem upon the mother-church of Christianity, repairing by the majesty
of art what Rome had suffered at the hands of Germany and Spain, and inaugurating by this visible
sign of sovereignty the new age of Catholicity renascent and triumphant.

To the last period of Buonarroti's life (a space of twenty-two years between 1542 and 1564)
we owe some of his most beautiful drawings--sketches for pictures of the Crucifixion made for
Vittoria Colonna, and a few mythological designs, like the "Rape of Ganymede," composed for
Tommaso Cavalieri. His thoughts meanwhile were turned more and more, as time advanced, to piety;
and many of his sonnets breathe an almost ascetic spirit of religion.[334] We see in them the
old man regretting the years he had spent on art, deploring his enthusiasm for earthly beauty,
and seeking comfort in the cross alone.

It is pleasant to know that these last years were also the happiest and calmest. Though he
had lost his faithful friend and servant Urbino; though his father had died, an old man, and
his brothers had passed away before him one by one, his nephew Lionardo had married in Florence,
and begotten a son called Michael Angelo. Thus he had the satisfaction of hoping that his name
would endure and flourish, as indeed it has done almost to this very day in Florence. What
consolation this thought must have brought him, is clear to those who have studied his correspondence
and observed the tender care and continual anxiety he had for his kinsmen.[335] Wealth now
belonged to him: but he had never cared for money; and he continued to live like a poor man,
dressing soberly and eating sparely, often taking but one meal in the day, and that of bread
and wine.[336] He slept little, and rose by night to work upon his statues, wearing a cap with
a candle stuck in front of it, that he might see where to drive the chisel home. During his
whole life he had been solitary, partly by preference, partly by devotion to his art, and partly
because he kept men at a distance by his manner.[337] Not that Michael Angelo was sour or haughty;
but he spoke his mind out very plainly, had no tolerance for fools, and was apt to fly into
passions.[338] Time had now softened his temper and removed all causes of discouragement. He
had survived every rival, and the world was convinced of his supremacy. Princes courted him;
the Count of Canossa was proud to claim him for a kinsman; strangers, when they visited Rome,
were eager to behold in him its greatest living wonder.[339] His old age was the serene and
splendid evening of a toilsome day. But better than all this, he now enjoyed both love and
friendship.

If Michael Angelo could ever have been handsome is more than doubtful. Early in his youth the
quarrelsome and vain Torrigiani broke his nose with a blow of the fist, when they were drawing
from Masaccio's frescoes in the Carmine together.[340] Thenceforth the artist's soul looked
forth from a sad face, with small grey eyes, flat nostrils, and rugged weight of jutting brows.
Good care was thus taken that light love should not trifle with the man who was destined to
be the prophet of his age in art. Like Beethoven, he united a loving nature, sensitive to beauty
and desirous of affection, with a rude exterior. He seemed incapable of attaching himself to
any merely mortal object, and wedded the ideal. In that century of intrigue and amour, we hear
of nothing to imply that Michael Angelo was a lover till he reached the age of sixty. How he
may have loved in the earlier periods of his life, whereof no record now remains, can only
be guessed from the tenderness and passion outpoured in the poems of his latter years. That
his morality was pure and his converse without stain, is emphatically witnessed by both Vasari
and Condivi.[341] But that his emotion was intense, and that to beauty in all its human forms
he was throughout his life a slave, we have his own sonnets to prove.

In the year 1534 he first became acquainted with the noble lady Vittoria, daughter of Fabrizio
Colonna, and widow of the Marquis of Pescara. She was then aged forty-four, and had nine years
survived the loss of a husband she never ceased to idolise.[342] Living in retirement in Rome,
she employed her leisure with philosophy and poetry. Artists and men of letters were admitted
to her society. Among the subjects she had most at heart was the reform of the Church and the
restoration of religion to its evangelical purity. Between her and Michael Angelo a tender
affection sprang up based upon the sympathy of ardent and high-seeking natures. If love be
the right name for this exalted and yet fervid attachment, Michael Angelo may be said to have
loved her with all the pent-up forces of his heart. None of his works display a predilection
for girlish beauty, and it is probable that her intellectual distinction and mature womanhood
touched him even more than if she had been younger. When they were together in Rome they met
frequently for conversation on the themes of art and piety they both held dear. Of these discourses
a charming record has been preserved to us by the painter Francis of Holland.[343] When they
were separated they exchanged poems and wrote letters, some of which remain. On the death of
Vittoria, in 1547, the light of life seemed to be extinguished for our sculptor. It is said
that he waited by her bed-side, and kissed her hand when she was dying. The sonnets he afterwards
composed show that his soul followed her to heaven.

Another friend whom Michael Angelo found in this last stage of life, and whom he loved with
only less warmth than Vittoria, was a young Roman of perfect beauty and of winning manners.
Tommaso Cavalieri must be mentioned next to the Marchioness of Pescara as the being who bound
this greatest soul a captive.[344] Both Cavalieri and Vittoria are said to have been painted
by him, and these are the only two portraits he is reported to have executed. It may here be
remarked that nothing is more characteristic of his genius than the determination to see through
nature, to pass beyond the actual to the abstract, and to use reality only as a stepping-stone
to the ideal. This artistic Platonism was the source both of his greatness and his mannerism.
As men choose to follow Blake or Ruskin, they may praise or blame him; yet, blame and praise
pronounced on such a matter with regard to such a man are equally impertinent and insignificant.
It is enough for the critic to note with reverence that thus and thus the spirit that was in
him worked and moved.

When we read the sonnets addressed to Vittoria Colonna and Cavalieri, we find something inexpressibly
pathetic in this pure and fervent worship of beauty, when the artist with a soul still young
had reached the limit of the years of man. Here and there we trace in them an echo of his youth.
The Platonic dialogues he heard while yet a young man at the suppers of Lorenzo, reappear converted
to the very substance of his thought and style. At the same time Savonarola resumes ascendency
over his mind; and when he turns to Florence, it is of Dante that he speaks.

At last the moment came when this strong solitary spirit, much suffering and much loving, had
to render its account. It appears from a letter written to Lionardo Buonarroti on February
15, 1564, that his old servant Antonio del Francese, the successor of Urbino in his household,
together with Tommaso Cavalieri and Daniello Ricciarelli of Volterra, attended him in his last
illness. On the 18th of that month, having bequeathed his soul to God, his body to the earth,
and his worldly goods to his kinsfolk, praying them on their death-bed to think upon Christ's
passion, he breathed his last. His corpse was transported to Florence, and buried in the church
of S. Croce, with great pomp and honour, by the Duke, the city, and the Florentine Academy.

FOOTNOTES:

[289] See Vasari, vol. xii. p. 333, and Gotti's Vita di Michelangelo Buonarroti, vol. i. p.
4, for a discussion of this claim, and for a letter written by Alessandro Count of Canossa,
in 1520, to the artist.

[290] That Michael Angelo was contemptuous to brother artists, is proved by what Torrigiani
said to Cellini: "Aveva per usanza di uccellare tutti quelli che dissegnavano." He called Perugino
goffo, told Francia's son that his father made handsomer men by night than by day, and cast
in Lionardo's teeth that he could not finish the equestrian statue of the Duke of Milan. It
is therefore not improbable that when, according to the legend, he corrected a drawing of Ghirlandajo's,
he may have said things unendurable to the elder painter.

[291] Engraved in outline in Harford's Illustrations of the Genius of Michael Angelo Buonarroti,
Colnaghi, 1857.

[292] This group, placed in S. Peter's, was made for the French Cardinal de Saint Denys. It
should be said that the first work of Michael Angelo in Rome was the "Bacchus" now in the Florentine
Bargello, executed for Jacopo Gallo, a Roman gentleman.

[293] Pitti approved of the form of government represented by Soderini. Machiavelli despised
the want of decision that made him quit Florence, and the euêtheia of the man. Hence their
curiously conflicting phrases.

[294] See the chapter entitled "Della Malitia e pessíme Conditioni del Tyranno," in Savonarola's
"Tractato circa el reggimento e governo della Citta di Firenze composto ad instantia delli
excelsi Signori al tempo di Giuliano Salviati, Gonfaloniere di Justitia." A more terrible picture
has never been drawn by any analyst of human vice and cruelty and weakness.

[295] Guasti's edition of the Rime, p. 26.

[296] He defends himself thus in a letter to Lodovico Buonarroti: "Del caso dei Medici io non
ò mai parlato contra di loro cosa nessuna, se non in quel modo che s' è parlato generalmente
per ogn' uomo, come fu del caso di Prato; che se le pietre avessin saputo parlare, n' avrebbono
parlato."

[297] It seems clear from the correspondence in the Archivio Buonarroti, recently published,
that when Michael Angelo fled from Florence to Venice in 1529, he did so under the pressure
of no ignoble panic, but because his life was threatened by a traitor, acting possibly at the
secret instance of Malatesta Baglioni. See Heath Wilson, pp. 326-330.

[298] See Guasti, p. 4.

[299] Vol. I., Age of the Despots, p. 251.

[300] To these years we must also assign the two unfinished medallions of "Madonna and the
infant Christ," the circular oil picture of the "Holy Family," painted for Angelo Doni, and
the beautiful unfinished picture of "Madonna with the boy Jesus and S. John" in the National
Gallery. The last of these works is one of the loveliest of Michael Angelo's productions, whether
we regard the symmetry of its composition or the refinement of its types. The two groups of
two boys standing behind the central group on either hand of the Virgin, have incomparable
beauty of form. The supreme style of the Sistine is here revealed to us in embryo. Whether
the "Entombment," also unfinished, and also in the National Gallery, belongs to this time,
and whether it be Michael Angelo's at all, is a matter for the experts to decide. To my perception,
it is quite unworthy of the painter of the Doni "Holy family;" nor can I think that his want
of practice in oil-painting will explain its want of charm and vigour.

[301] It has long been believed that Baccio Bandinelli destroyed Michael Angelo's; but Grimm,
in his Life of the sculptor (vol. i. p. 376, Eng. Tr.), adduces solid arguments against this
legend. A few studies, together with the engravings of portions by Marc Antonio and Agostino
Veneziano, enable us to form a notion of the composition. At Holkham there is an old copy of
the larger portion of the cartoon, which has been engraved by Schiavonetti, and reproduced
in Harford's Illustrations, plate x.

[302] Vita, p. 23. Cellini, the impassioned admirer of Michael Angelo, esteemed this cartoon
so highly, that he writes: "Sebbene il divino Michelagnolo fece la gran cappella di Papa Julio
da poi, non arrivò mai a questo segno alla meta: la sua virtù non aggiunse mai da poi alla
forza di quei primi studj."

[303] The cartoon was probably exhibited in 1505. See Gotti, vol. i. p. 35.

[304] Gotti, pp. 277-282.

[305] Springer, in his essay, Michael Agnolo in Rome, p. 21, makes out that this large design
was not conceived till after the death of Julius. It is difficult to form a clear notion of
the many changes in the plan of the tomb, between 1505 and 1542, when Michael Angelo signed
the last contract with the heirs of Julius.

[306] In the Uffizzi at Florence. See Heath Wilson, plate vi.

[307] Boboli Gardens, Bargello, Louvre. These captives are unfinished. The "Rachel" and "Leah"
at S. Pietro in Vincoli were committed to pupils by Michael Angelo.

[308] "Che mi fosso messo a fare zolfanelli.... Son ogni di lapidato, come se havessi crucifisso
Cristo.... io mi truovo avere perduta tutta la mia giovinezza legato a questa sepoltura."

[309] Gotti, p. 42. Grimm makes two visits to Carrara in 1505 and 1506, vol. i. pp. 239, 243.

[310] See his letter. Gotti, p. 44.

[311] Our authorities for this episode in Michael Angelo's biography are mainly Vasari and
Condivi. Though there may be exaggeration in the legend, it is certain that a correspondence
took place between the Pope and the Gonfalonier of Florence, to bring about his return. See
Heath Wilson, pp. 79-87, and the letter to Giuliano di San Gallo in Milanesi's Archivio Buonarroti,
p. 377. Michael Angelo appears to have had some reason to fear assassination in Rome.

[312] See Michael Angelo's letters to Giovan Francesco Fattucci, and his family. Gotti, pp. 55-65.

[313] See the sonnet to Giovanni da Pistoja:--

             La mia pittura morta
    Difendi orma', Giovanni, e 'l mio onore,
    Non sendo in loco bon, nè io pittore.

[314] According to the first plan, Michael Angelo bargained with the Pope for twelve Apostles
in the lunettes, and another part to be filled with ornament in the usual manner--"dodici Apostoli
nelle lunette, e 'l resto un certo partimento ripieno d' adornamenti come si usa." Michael
Angelo, after making designs for this commission, told the Pope he thought the roof would look
poor, because the Apostles were poor folk--"perchè furon poveri anche loro." He then began
his cartoons for the vault as it now exists. See the letter to Ser Giovan Francesco Fattucci,
in the Archivio Buonarroti, Milanesi, pp. 426-427. This seems to be the foundation for an old
story of the Pope's complaining that the Sistine roof looked poor without gilding, and Michael
Angelo's reply that the Biblical personages depicted there were but poor people.

[315] Bramante, the Pope's architect, did in truth fail to construct the proper scaffolding,
whether through inability or jealousy. Michael Angelo designed a superior system of his own,
which became a model for future architects in similar constructions.

[316] See chapters vi. vii. and viii. of Mr. Charles Heath Wilson's admirable Life of Michel
Angelo. Aurelio Gotti's Vita di Michel Agnolo, and Anton Springer's Michael Agnolo in Rome,
deserve to be consulted on this passage in the painter's biography.

[317] The conditions under which Michael Angelo worked, without a trained band of pupils, must
have struck contemporaries, accustomed to Raphael's crowds of assistants, with a wonder that
justified Vasari's emphatic language of exaggeration as to his single-handed labour.

[318] In speaking of the Sistine I have treated Michael Angelo as a sculptor, and it was a
sculptor who designed those frescoes. Nè io pittore is his own phrase. Compare an autotype
of "Adam" in the Sistine with one of "Twilight" in S. Lorenzo: it is clear that in the former
Michael Angelo painted what he would have been well pleased to carve. A sculptor's genius was
needed for the modelling of those many figures; it was, moreover, not a painter's part to deal
thus drily with colour.

[319] The Laurentian Library, however, was built in 1524.

[320] See Gotti, pp. 150, 155, 158, 159, for the correspondence which passed upon the subject,
and the various alterations in the plan. As in the case of all Michael Angelo's works, except
the Sistine, only a small portion of the original project was executed.

[321] Cosimo de' Medici found it impossible to induce him to return to Florence. See B. Cellini's
Life, p. 436, for his way of receiving the Duke's overtures.

[322] See above, Chapter II, Michael Angelo.

[323] Vasari names the gloomy statue, called by the Italians Il Penseroso, "Lorenzo, Duke of
Urbino," the sprightly one, "Giuliano, Duke of Nemours;" and this contemporary tradition has
been recently confirmed by an inspection of the Penseroso's tomb (see a letter to the Academy,
March 13, 1875, by Mr. Charles Heath Wilson). Grimm, in his Life of Michael Angelo, gave plausible
aesthetic reasons why we should reverse the nomenclature; but the discovery of two bodies beneath
the Penseroso, almost certainly those of Lorenzo and his supposed son Alessandro, justifies
Vasari. Neither of these statues can be accepted as a portrait.

[324] The "Bacchus" of the Bargello, the "David," the "Christ," of the Minerva, the "Duke of
Nemours," and the almost finished "Night," might also be mentioned. His chalk drawings of the
"Bersaglieri," the "Infant Bacchanals," the "Fall of Phaëthon," and the "Punishment of Tityos,"
now in the Royal Collection at Windsor, prove that even in old age Michael Angelo carried delicacy
of execution as a draughtsman to a point not surpassed even by Lionardo. Few frescoes, again,
were ever finished with more conscientious elaboration than those of the Sistine vault.

[325] See Varchi, at the end of the Storia Fiorentina, for episodes in the life of Pier Luigi
Farnese, and Cellini for a popular estimate of the Cardinal, his father.

[326] This extract from Cesare Balbo's Pensieri sulla Storia d' Italia, Le Monnier, 1858, p.
57, may help to explain the situation: "E se lasciando gli uomini e i nomi grandi de' governanti,
noi venissimo a quella storia, troppo sovente negletta, dei piccoli, dei più, dei governati
che sono in somma scopo d' ogni sorta di governo; se, coll' aiuto delle tante memorie rimaste
di quell' secolo, noi ci addestrassimo a conoscere la condizione comune e privata degli Italiani
di quell' età, noi troveremmo trasmesse dai governanti a' governati, e ritornate da questi
a quelli, tali universali scostumatezze ed immoralità, tali fiacchezze e perfidie, tali mollezze
e libidini, tali ozi e tali vizi, tali avvilimenti insomma e corruzioni, che sembrano appena
credibili in una età d' incivilmento cristiano."

[327] Vasari's description moves our laughter with its jargon about "attitudini bellissime
e scorti molto mirabili," when the man, in spite of his honest and enthusiastic admiration,
is so little capable of penetrating the painter's thought. Mr. Ruskin leaves the same impression
as Vasari: he too makes much talk about attitudes and muscles in Michael Angelo, and seems
to be on Vasari's level as to comprehending him. The difference is that Vasari praises, Ruskin
blames; both miss the mark.

[328] "È possibile che voi, che per essere divino non degnate il consortio degli huomini, haviate
ciò fatto nel maggior tempio di Dio?.... In un bagno delitioso, non in un choro supremo si
conveniva il far vostro." Those who are curious may consult Aretino's correspondence with Michael
Angelo in his published letters (Parigi, 1609), lib. i. p. 153; lib. ii. p. 9; lib. iii. pp.
45, 122; lib. iv. p. 37.

[329] Braun's autotypes of the vault frescoes show what ravage the lapse of time has wrought
in them, by the cracking of the plaster, the peeling off in places of the upper surface, and
the deposit of dirt and cobwebs. Mr. Heath Wilson, after careful examination, pronounces that
not only time, but the wilful hand of man, re-painting and washing the delicate tint-coats
with corrosive acids, has contributed to their ruin.

[330] Histoire de la Peinture en Italie, p. 332.

[331] That is not counting the frescoes of the Cappella Paolina in the Vatican, painted about
1544, which are now in a far worse state even than the "Last Judgment," and which can never
have done more than show his style in decadence.

[332] See above, Chapter II, S. Peter's.

[333] See Gotti, p. 307, or Archivio Buonarroti, p. 535.

[334] I have reserved my translation of the sonnets that cast most light upon Michael Angelo's
thought and feeling for an Appendix, No. II.

[335] The majority of Michael Angelo's letters are written on domestic matters--about the affairs
of his brothers and his father. When they vexed him, he would break out into expressions like
the following: "Io son ito, da dodici anni in qua, tapinando per tutta Italia; sopportato ogni
vergognia; patito ogni stento; lacerato il corpo mio in ogni fatica; messa la vita propria
a mille pericoli, solo per aiutar la casa mia." They are generally full of good counsel and
sound love. How he loved his father may be seen in the terza rima poem on his death in 1534.

[336] Notice this expression in a letter to his father, written from Rome, about 1512, "Bastivi
avere del pane, e vivete ben con Cristo e poveramente; come fo io qua, che vivo meschinamente."
It does not seem that he ever altered this poor way of living. For his hiring at Bologna, in
1507, a single room with one bed in it, for himself and his three workmen, see Gotti, p. 58.
His father in 1500 rebuked him for the meanness of his establishment; ibid. p. 23. It appears
that he was always sending money home.

[337] "Io sto qua in grande afanno, e con grandissima fatica di corpo, e non ò amici di nessuna
sorte, e none voglio: e non ò tanto tempo che io possa mangiare el bisognio mio." Letter to
Gismondo, published by Grimm. See, too, Sebastian del Piombo's letter to him of November 9,
1520: "Ma fate paura a ognuno, insino a' papi." Compare, too, the letter of Sebastian, Oct.
15, 1512, in which Julius is reported to have said, "È terribile, come tu vedi, non se pol
praticar con lui." Again, Michael Angelo writes: "Sto sempesolo, vo poco attorno e non parlo
a persona e massino di fiorentini." Gotti, p. 255.

[338] When anything went wrong with him, he became moody and vehement: "Non vi maravigliate
che io vi abbi scritto alle volte cosi stizosamente, che io ò alle volte di gran passione,
per molte cagioni che avengono a chi è fuor di casa." So he writes to his father in 1498. A
letter to Luigi del Riccio of 1545, is signed "Michelagnolo Buonarroti non pittore, nè scultore,
nè architettore, ma quel che voi volete, ma none briaco, come vi dissi, in casa."

[339] See the letters of Cosimo de' Medici, Gotti, pp. 301-313, the letter of Count Alessandro
da Canossa, ibid. p. 4, and Pier Vettori's letter to Borghini, about the visit of some German
gentlemen, ibid. p. 315.

[340] See the story as told by Torrigiani himself in Cellini, ed. Le Monnier, p. 23.

[341] After saying that he talked of love like Plato, Condivi continues: "Non senti mai uscir
di quella bocca se non parole onestissime, e che avevan forza d' estinguere nella gioventù
ogni incomposto e sfrenato desiderio che in lei potesse cadere." Compare Scipione Ammirato,
quoted by Guasti, "Le Rime," p. xi.

[342] Her intense affection for the Marquis of Pescara, to whom she had been betrothed by her
father at the age of five, is sufficiently proved by those many sonnets and canzoni in which
she speaks of him as her Sun.

[343] See Grimm, vol. ii.

[344] See the Sonnets translated in my Appendix and in my Sonnets of Michael Angelo and Campanella,
London, Smith & Elder, 1878. See also the letters to Cavalieri, quoted by Gotti, pp. 231, 232,
234. It is surely strained criticism to conjecture, as Gotti has done, that these epistles
were meant for Vittoria, though written to Cavalieri. Taken together with the sonnets and the
letter of Bartolommeo Angiolini (Gotti, p. 233), they seem to me to prove only Michael Angelo's
warm love for this young man.

Few names in the history of Italian art are more renowned than that of Benvenuto Cellini. This
can hardly be attributed to the value of his extant works; for though, while he lived, he was
the greatest goldsmith of his time, a skilled medallist and an admirable statuary, few of his
many masterpieces now survive. The plate and armour that bear his name, are only in some rare
instances genuine; and the bronze "Perseus" in the Loggia de' Lanzi at Florence remains almost
alone to show how high he ranked among the later Tuscan sculptors. If, therefore, Cellini had
been judged merely by the authentic productions of his art, he would not have acquired a celebrity
unique among his fellow-workers of the sixteenth century. That fame he owes to the circumstance
that he left behind him at his death a full and graphic narrative of his stormy life. The vivid
style of this autobiography dictated by Cellini while still engaged in the labour of his craft,
its animated picture of a powerful character, the variety of its incidents, and the amount
of information it contains, place it high both as a life-romance and also as a record of contemporary
history. After studying the laboured periods of Varchi, we turn to these memoirs, and view
the same events from the standpoint of an artisan conveying his impressions with plebeian raciness
of phrase. The sack of Rome, the plague and siege of Florence, the humiliation of Clement VII.,
the pomp of Charles V. at Rome, the behaviour of the Florentine exiles at Ferrara, the intimacy
between Alessandro de' Medici and his murderer, Lorenzino, the policy of Paul III., and the
method pursued by Cosimo at Florence, are briefly but significantly touched upon--no longer
by the historian seeking causes and setting forth the sequence of events, but by a shrewd observer
interested in depicting his own part in the great game of life. Cellini haunted the private
rooms of popes and princes; he knew the chief actors of his day, just as the valet knows the
hero; and the picturesque glimpses into their life we gain from him, add the charm of colour
and reality to history.

At the same time this book presents an admirable picture of an artist's life at Rome, Paris,
and Florence. Cellini was essentially an Italian of the Cinque-cento. His passions were the
passions of his countrymen; his vices were the vices of his time; his eccentricity and energy
and vital force were what the age idealised as virtù. Combining rare artistic gifts with a
most violent temper and a most obstinate will, he paints himself at one time as a conscientious
craftsman, at another as a desperate bravo. He obeys his instincts and indulges his appetites
with the irreflective simplicity of an animal. In the pursuit of vengeance and the commission
of murder he is self-reliant, coolly calculating, fierce and fatal as a tiger. Yet his religious
fervour is sincere; his impulses are generous; and his heart on the whole is good. His vanity
is inordinate; and his unmistakable courage is impaired, to Northern apprehension, by swaggering
bravado.

The mixture of these qualities in a personality so natural and so clearly limned renders Cellini
a most precious subject for the student of Renaissance life and character. Even supposing him
to have been exceptionally passionate, he was made of the same stuff as his contemporaries.
We are justified in concluding this not only from collateral evidence and from what he tells
us, but also from the meed of honour he received. In Europe of the present day he could hardly
fail to be regarded as a ruffian, a dangerous disturber of morality and order. In his own age
he was held in high esteem and buried by his fellow-citizens with public ceremonies. A funeral
oration was pronounced over his grave "in praise both of his life and works, and also of his
excellent disposition of mind and body."[345] He dictated the memoirs that paint him as bloodthirsty,
sensual, and revengeful, in the leisure of his old age, and left them with complacency to serve
as witness of his manly virtues to posterity. Even Vasari, whom he hated, and who reciprocated
his ill-will, records that "he always showed himself a man of great spirit and veracity, bold,
active, enterprising, and formidable to his enemies; a man, in short, who knew as well how
to speak to princes as to exert himself in his art."

Enough has been said to prove that Cellini was not inferior to the average morality of the
Renaissance, and that we are justified in accepting his life as a valuable historical document.[346]
To give a detailed account of a book pronounced by Horace Walpole "more amusing than any novel,"
received by Parini and Tiraboschi as the most delightful masterpiece of Italian prose, translated
into German by Goethe, and placed upon his index of select works by Auguste Comte, may seem
superfluous. Yet I cannot afford to omit from my plan the most singular and characteristic
episode in the private history of the Italian Renaissance. I need it for the concrete illustration
of much that has been said in this and the preceding volumes of my work.

Cellini was born of respectable parents at Florence on the night of All Saints' Day in 1500,
and was called Benvenuto to record his father's joy at having a son.[347] It was the wish of
Giovanni Cellini's heart that his son should be a musician. Benvenuto in consequence practised
the flute for many years attentively, though much against his will. At the age of fifteen so
great was his desire to learn the arts of design that his father placed him under the care
of the goldsmith Marcone. At the same time he tells us in his memoirs: "I continued to play
sometimes through complaisance to my father either upon the flute or the horn; and I constantly
drew tears and deep sighs from him every time he heard me." While engaged in the workshop of
Marcone, Benvenuto came to blows with some young men who had attacked his brother, and was
obliged to leave Florence for a time. At this period he visited Siena, Bologna, and Pisa, gaming
his livelihood by working in the shops of goldsmiths, and steadily advancing in his art.

It must not be thought that this education was a mean one for so great an artist. Painting
and sculpture in Italy were regarded as trades, and the artist had his bottega just as much
as the cobbler or the blacksmith.[348] I have already had occasion to point out that an apprenticeship
to goldsmith's work was considered at Florence an almost indispensable commencement of advanced
art-study.[349] Brunelleschi, Botticelli, Orcagna, Verocchio, Ghiberti, Pollajuolo, Ghirlandajo,
Luca della Robbia, all underwent this training before they applied themselves to architecture,
painting, and sculpture. As the goldsmith's craft was understood in Florence, it exacted the
most exquisite nicety in performance as well as design. It forced the student to familiarise
himself with the materials, instruments, and technical processes of art; so that, later on
in life, he was not tempted to leave the execution of his work to journeymen and hirelings.[350]
No labour seemed too minute, no metal was too mean, for the exercise of the master-workman's
skill; nor did he run the risk of becoming one of those half-amateurs in whom accomplishment
falls short of first conception. Art ennobled for him all that he was called to do. Whether
cardinals required him to fashion silver vases for their banquet-tables; or ladies wished the
setting of their jewels altered; or a pope wanted the enamelled binding of a book of prayers;
or men-at-arms sent swordblades to be damascened with acanthus foliage; or kings desired fountains
and statues for their palace courts; or poets begged to have their portraits cast in bronze;
or generals needed medals to commemorate their victories, or dukes new coins for their mint;
or bishops ordered reliquaries for the altars of their patron saints; or merchants sought for
seals and signet rings engraved with their device; or men of fashion asked for medallions of
Leda and Adonis to fasten in their caps--all these commissions could be undertaken by a workman
like Cellini. He was prepared for all alike by his apprenticeship to orfevria; and to all he
gave the same amount of conscientious toil. The consequence was that, at the time of the Renaissance,
furniture, plate, jewels, and articles of personal adornment were objects of true art. The
mind of the craftsman was exercised afresh in every piece of work. Pretty things were not bought,
machine-made, by the gross in a warehouse; nor was it customary, as now it is, to see the same
design repeated with mechanical regularity in every house.

In 1518 Benvenuto returned to Florence and began to study the cartoons of Michael Angelo. He
must have already acquired considerable reputation as a workman, for about this time Torrigiani
invited him to go to England in his company and enter the service of Henry VIII. The Renaissance
was now beginning to penetrate the nations of the North, and Henry and Francis vied with each
other in trying to attract foreign artists to their capitals. It does not, however, appear
that the English king secured the services of men so distinguished as Lionardo da Vinci, II
Rosso, Primaticcio, Del Sarto, and Cellini, who shed an artificial lustre on the Court of France.
Going to London then was worse than going to Russia now, and to take up a lengthy residence
among questi diavoli ... quelle bestie di quegli Inglesi, as Cellini politely calls the English,
did not suit a Southern taste. He had, moreover, private reasons for disliking Torrigiani,
who boasted of having broken Michael Angelo's nose in a quarrel. "His words," says Cellini,
"raised in me such a hatred of the fellow that, far from wishing to accompany him to England,
I could not bear to look at him." It may be mentioned that one of Cellini's best points was
hero-worship for Michael Angelo. He never speaks of him except as quel divino Michel Agnolo,
il mio maestro, and extols la bella maniera of the mighty sculptor to the skies. Torrigiani,
as far as we can gather from Cellini's description of him, must have been a man of his own
kidney and complexion: "he was handsome, of consummate assurance, having rather the airs of
a bravo than a sculptor; above all, his fierce gestures and his sonorous voice, with a peculiar
manner of knitting his brows, were enough to frighten everyone that saw him; and he was continually
talking of his valiant feats among those bears of Englishmen." The story of Torrigiani's death
in Spain is worth repeating. A grandee employed him to model a Madonna, which he did with more
than usual care, expecting a great reward. His pay, however, falling short of is expectation,
in a fit of fury he knocked his statue to pieces. For this act of sacrilege, as it was deemed,
to the work of his own brain and hand, Torrigiani was thrown into the dungeons of the Inquisition.
There he starved himself to death in 1522 in order to escape the fate of being burned. This
story helps to explain why the fine arts were never well developed in Spain, and why they languished
after the introduction of the Holy Office into Italy.[351]

Instead of emigrating to England, Benvenuto, after a quarrel with his father about the obnoxious
flute-playing, sauntered out one morning toward the gate of S. Piero Gattolini. There he met
a friend called Tasso, who had also quarrelled with his parents; and the two youths agreed,
upon the moment, to set off for Rome. Both were nineteen years of age. Singing and laughing,
carrying their bundle by turns, and wondering "what the old folks would say," they trudged
on foot to Siena, there hired a return horse between them, and so came to Rome. This residence
in Rome only lasted two years, which were spent by Cellini in the employment of various masters.
At the expiration of that time he returned to Florence, and distinguished himself by the making
of a marriage girdle for a certain Raffaello Lapaccini.[352] The fame of this and other pieces
of jewellery roused against him the envy and malice of the elder goldsmiths, and led to a serious
fray, in the course of which he assaulted a young man of the Guasconti family, and was obliged
to fly disguised like a monk to Rome.

As this is the first of Cellini's homicidal quarrels, it is worth while to transcribe what
he says about it. "One day as I was leaning against the shop of these Guasconti, and talking
with them, they contrived that a load of bricks should pass by at the moment, and Gherardo
Guasconti pushed it against me in such wise that it hurt me. Turning suddenly and seeing that
he was laughing, I struck him so hard upon the temple that he fell down stunned. Then turning
to his cousins, I said, That is how I treat cowardly thieves like you; and when they began
to show fight, being many together, I, finding myself on flame, set hand to a little knife
I had, and cried, If one of you leaves the shop, let another run for the confessor, for a surgeon
won't find anything to do here." Nor was he contented with this truculent behaviour; for when
Gherardo recovered from his blow, and the matter had come before the magistrates, Cellini went
to seek him in his own house. There he stabbed him in the midst of all his family, raging meanwhile,
to use his own phrase, "like an infuriated bull."[353] It appears that on this occasion no
one was seriously hurt; but the affair proved perilous to Cellini, since it was a mere accident
that he had not killed more than one of the Guasconti. These affrays recur continually among
the adventures recorded by Cellini in his Life. He says with comical reservation of phrase
that he was "naturally somewhat choleric;" and then, describes the access of his fury as a
sort of fever, lasting for days, preventing him from taking food or sleep, making his blood
boil in his veins, inflaming his eyes, and never suffering him to rest till he revenged himself
by murder or at least by blows. To enumerate all the people he killed or wounded, or pounded
to a jelly in public brawls or private quarrels, in the pursuit of deliberate vendetta or under
a sudden impulse of ungovernable rage, would take too long. We are forced by an effort to recall
to mind the state of society at that time in Italy, in order to understand how it is that he
can talk with unconcern and even self-complacency about his homicides. He makes himself accuser,
judge, and executioner, and is quite satisfied with the goodness of his cause, the justice
of his sentence, and the equity of his administration. In a sonnet written to Bandinelli, he
compares his own victims with the mangled statues of that sculptor, much to his own satisfaction.[354]

There is the same callousness of conscience in his record of spiteful acts that we should blush
to think of--stabs in the dark, and such a piece of revenge as cutting the beds to bits in
the house of an innkeeper who had offended him.[355] Nor does he speak with any shame of the
savage cruelty with which he punished a woman who was sitting to him as a model, and whom he
hauled up and down his room by the hair of her head, kicking and beating her till he was tired.[356]
It is true that on this occasion he regrets having spoiled, in a moment of blind passion, the
best arms and legs that he could find to draw from. Such episodes, to which it is impossible
to allude otherwise than very briefly, illustrate with extraordinary vividness what I have
already had occasion to say about the Italian sense of honour at this period.[357]

The consciousness of physical courage and the belief in his own moral superiority sustained
Cellini in all his dangers and in all his crimes. Armed with his sword and dagger, and protected
by his coat of mail, he was ready to stand against the world and fight his way towards any
object he desired. When a man opposed his schemes or entered into competition with him as an
artist, he swaggered up with hand on hilt and threatened to run him through the body if he
did not mind his business. At the same time he attributes the success of his own violence in
quelling and maltreating his opponents to the providence of God. "I do not write this narrative,"
he says, "from a motive of vanity, but merely to return thanks to God, who has extricated me
out of so many trials and difficulties; who likewise delivers me from those that daily impend
over me. Upon all occasions I pay my devotions to Him, call upon Him as my defender, and recommend
myself to His care. I always exert my utmost efforts to extricate myself, but when I am quite
at a loss, and all my powers fail me, then the force of the Deity displays itself--that formidable
force which, unexpectedly, strikes those who wrong and oppress others, and neglect the great
and honourable duty which God has enjoined on them." I shall have occasion later on to discuss
Cellini's religious opinions; but here it may be remarked that the feeling of this passage
is thoroughly sincere and consistent with the spirit of the times. The separation between religion
and morality was complete in Italy.[358] Men made their own God and worshipped him; and the
God of Cellini was one who always helped those who began to help themselves by taking justice
into their own hands.

From the date of his second visit to Rome in 1523, Cellini's life divides itself into three
periods, the first spent in the service of Popes Clement VII. and Paul III., the second in
Paris at the Court of Francis, and the third at Florence under Cosimo de' Medici.

On arriving in Rome, his extraordinary abilities soon brought him into notice at the Court.
The Chigi family, the Bishop of Salamanca, and the Pope himself employed him to make various
jewels, ornaments, and services of plate. In consequence of a dream in which his father appeared
and warned him not to neglect music, under pain of the paternal malediction, he accepted a
post in the Papal band. The old bugbear of flute-playing followed him until his father's death,
and then we hear no more of it. The history of this portion of his life is among the most entertaining
passages of his biography. Drawing the Roman ruins, shooting pigeons, scouring the Campagna
on a pony like a shaggy bear, fighting duels, prosecuting love-affairs, defending his shop
against robbers, skirmishing with Moorish pirates on the shore by Cerveterra, stabbing, falling
ill of the plague and the French sickness--these adventures diversify the account he gives
of masterpieces in gold and silver ware. The literary and artistic society of Rome at this
period was very brilliant. Painters, sculptors, and goldsmiths mixed with scholars and poets,
passing their time alternately in the palaces of dukes and cardinals and in the lodgings of
gay women. Bohemianism of the wildest type was combined with the manners of the great world.
A little incident described at some length by Cellini brings this varied life before us. There
was a club of artists, including Giulio Romano and other pupils of Raphael, who met twice a
week to sup together and to spend the evening in conversation, with music and the recitation
of sonnets. Each member of this company brought with him a lady. Cellini, on one occasion,
not being provided for the moment with an innamorata, dressed up a beautiful Spanish youth
called Diego as a woman, and took him to the supper. The ensuing scene is described in the
most vivid manner. We see before us the band of painters and poets, the women in their bright
costumes, the table adorned with flowers and fruit, and, as a background to the whole picture,
a trellis of jasmines with dark foliage and starry blossoms. Diego, called Pomona, with regard
doubtless to his dark and ruddy beauty, is unanimously proclaimed the fairest of the fair.
Then a discovery of his sex is made; and the adventure leads, as usual in the doings of Cellini,
to daggers, midnight ambushes, and vendettas that only end with bloodshed.

An episode of this sort may serve as the occasion for observing that the artists of the late
Renaissance had become absorbed in the admiration of merely carnal beauty. With the exception
of Michael Angelo and Tintoretto, there was no great master left who still pursued an intellectual
ideal. The Romans and the Venetians simply sought and painted what was splendid and luxurious
in the world around them. Their taste was contented with well-developed muscles, gorgeous colour,
youthful bloom, activity of limb, and grace of outline. The habits of the day, voluptuous yet
hardy, fostered this one-sided development of the arts; while the asceticism of the Middle
Ages had yielded to a pagan cult of sensuality. To draw un bel corpo ignudo with freedom was
now the ne plus ultra of achievement. How to express thought or to indicate the subtleties
of emotion, had ceased to be the artist's aim. We have already noticed the passionate love
of beauty which animated the great masters of the golden age. This, in the less elevated natures
of the craftsmen who succeeded them, and under the conditions of advancing national corruption,
was no longer refined or restrained by delicacy of feeling or by loftiness of aim. It degenerated
into soulless animalism. The capacity for perceiving and for reproducing what is nobly beautiful
was lost. Vulgarity and coarseness stamped themselves upon the finest work of men like Giulio
Romano. At this crisis it was proved how inferior was the neo-paganism of the sixteenth century
to the paganism of antiquity it aped. Mythology preserved Greek art from degradation, and connected
a similar enthusiasm for corporeal beauty with the thoughts and aspirations of the Hellenic
race. The Italians lacked this safeguard of a natural religion. To throw the Christian ideal
aside, and to strive to grasp the classical ideal in exchange, was easy. But paganism alone
could give them nothing but its vices; it was incapable of communicating its real source of
life--its poetry, its faith, its cult of nature. Art, therefore, as soon as the artists pronounced
themselves for sensuality, merged in a skilful selection and reproduction of elegant forms,
and nothing more. A handsome youth upon a pedestal was called a god. A duke's mistress on Titian's
canvas passed for Aphrodite. Andrea del Sarto's faithless wife figured as Madonna. Cellini
himself, though sensitive to every kind of physical beauty--as we gather from what he tells
us of Cencio, Diego, Faustina, Paolino, Angelica, Ascanio--has not attempted to animate his
"Perseus," or his "Ganymede," or his "Diana of Fontainebleau," with a vestige of intellectual
or moral loveliness. The vacancy of their expression proves the degradation of an art that
had ceased to idealise anything beyond a faultless body. Not thus did the Greeks imagine even
their most sensual divinities. There is at least a thought in Faun and Satyr. Cellini's statues
have no thought; their blank animalism corresponds to the condition of their maker's soul.[359]

When Rome was carried by assault in 1527, and the Papal Court was besieged in the castle of
S. Angelo, Cellini played the part of bombardier. It is well known that he claims to have shot
the Constable of Bourbon dead with his own hand, and to have wounded the Prince of Orange;
nor does there seem to be any adequate reason for discrediting his narrative. It is certain
that he was an expert marksman, and that he did Clement good service by directing the artillery
of S. Angelo. If we believed all his assertions, however, we should have to suppose that nothing
memorable happened without his intervention. In his own eyes his whole life was a miracle.
The very hailstones that fell upon his head could not be grasped in both hands. His guns and
powder brought down birds no other marksman had a chance of hitting. When he was a child, he
grasped a scorpion without injury, and saw a salamander "living and enjoying himself in the
hottest flames." After his fever at Rome in 1535, he threw off from his stomach a hideous worm--hairy,
speckled with green, black, and red--the like whereof the doctors never saw.[360] When he finally
escaped from the dungeons of S. Angelo in 1539, a luminous appearance like an aureole settled
on his head, and stayed there for the rest of his life.[361] These facts are related in the
true spirit of Jerome Cardan, Paracelsus, Lord Herbert of Cherbury, and Sir Thomas Browne.
Cellini doubtless believed in them; but they warn us to be cautious in accepting what he says
about his exploits, since imagination and self-conceit could so far distort his judgment.

It may be regretted that Cellini has not given a fuller account of the memorable sack of Borne.
Yet, confining himself almost wholly to his own adventures, he presents a very vivid picture
of the sad life led by the Pope and cardinals, vainly hoping for succour from Urbino, wrangling
together about the causes of the tragedy, sewing the crown jewels into their doublets, and
running the perils of the siege with common soldiers on the ramparts. When peace at last was
signed, Cellini paid a visit to Florence, and found that his father and some other relatives
had died of plague.[362] His brother Cecchino, however, who was a soldier in the Bande Nere
of Giovanni de' Medici, and his sister Liperata survived. With them he spent a pleasant evening;
for Liperata having "for a while lamented her father, her sister, her husband, and a little
son that she had been deprived of, went to prepare supper, and during the rest of the evening
there was not a word more spoken of the dead, but much about weddings. Thus we supped together
with the greatest cheerfulness and satisfaction imaginable." In these sentences there is no
avowal of hard-heartedness; only the careless familiarity with loss and danger, engendered
by war, famine, plague, and personal adventures in those riotous times.[363] Cellini gladly
risked his life in a quarrel for his friends; but he would not sadden the present by reflecting
on inevitable accidents. This elastic temper permeates his character. His affections were strong,
but transient. The one serious love-affair he describes, among a multitude of mere debaucheries,
made him miserable for a few days. His mistress, Angelica, ran away, and left him "on the point
of losing his senses or dying of grief." Yet, when he found her again, a short time sufficed
to satisfy his longing, and he turned his back with jibes upon her when she bargained about money.

It is worthy of notice that, at the same time, he was an excellent son and brother. His sister
was left a widow with two children; whereupon he took them all into his house, without bragging
about what appears to have been the best action of his life. In the same spirit he conscientiously
performed what he conceived to be his duty to Cecchino, murdered by a musketeer in Rome. After
nursing his revenge till he was nearly mad, he stole out one evening and stabbed the murderer
in the back.[364] So violent was the blow that he could not extricate his dagger from the man's
spine, but had to leave it sticking in his nape. Next to his own egotism the strongest feelings
in Cellini were domestic; and he showed them at one moment by charity to his sister's family,
at another by a savage assassination.

After killing the musketeer, Cellini retired for refuge to the house of Alessandro de' Medici,
Duke of Cività di Penna, who had been his brother's patron. The matter reached the Pope's ears,
for whom Benvenuto was at work upon crown jewels. Clement sent for him, and simply said: "Now
you have recovered your health, Benvenuto, take care of yourself." This shows how little they
thought of homicide in Rome. After killing a man, some powerful protector had to be sought,
who was usually a cardinal, since the cardinals had right of sanctuary in their palaces. There
the assassin lay in hiding, in order to avoid his victim's friends and relatives, until such
time as a pardon and safe-conduct and absolution had been obtained from his Holiness. When
Cellini, soon after this occurrence, stabbed a private enemy, by name Pompeo, two cardinals
were anxious to screen him from pursuit, and disputed the privilege of harbouring so talented
a criminal.[365] The Pope, with marvellous good-humour, observed: "I have never heard of the
death of Pompeo, but often of Benvenuto's provocation; so let a safe-conduct be instantly made
out, and that will secure him from all manner of danger." A friend of Pompeo's who was present,
ventured to insinuate that this was dangerous policy. The Pope put him down at once by saying,
"You do not understand these matters; I would have you know that men who are unique in their
profession, like Benvenuto, are not subject to the laws." Whether Paul really said these words,
may be doubted; but it is clear that much was conceded to a clever workman, and that the laws
were a mere brutum fulmen. No man of spirit appealed to them. Cellini, for example, was poisoned
by a parish priest near Florence:[366] yet he never brought the man to justice; and in the
case of his own murders, he only dreaded the retaliation of his victims' kinsmen. On one occasion,
indeed, the civil arm came down upon him; when the city guard attempted to arrest him for Pompeo's
assassination. He beat them off with swords and sticks; and, after all, it appeared that they
were only acting at the instigation of Pier Luigi Farnese, whom Benvenuto had offended.

During his residence at Rome, Cellini witnessed an incantation conducted in the Colosseum by
a Sicilian priest and necromancer. The conjurer and the artist, accompanied by two friends,
and by a boy, who was to act as medium, went by night to the amphitheatre. The magic circle
was drawn; fires were lighted, and perfumes scattered on the flames. Then the spirit-seer began
his charms, calling in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, or what passed for such, upon the leaders
of the hosts of hell. The whole hollow space now filled with phantoms, surging up by legions,
rushing down from the galleries, issuing from subterranean caverns, and wheeling to and fro
with signs of fury. All the party, says Cellini, were thrown into consternation, except himself,
who, though terribly afraid, kept up the fainting spirits of the rest. At last the conjurer
summoned courage to inquire when Cellini might hope to be restored to his lost love, Angelica;--for
this was the trivial object of the incantation. The demons answered (how we are not told) that
he would meet her ere a month had passed away. This prophecy, as it happened, was fulfilled.
Then they redoubled their attacks; the necromancer kept crying out that the peril was most
imminent, until the matin bells of Rome swung through the darkness, freeing them at last from
fear. As they walked home, the boy, holding the Sicilian by his robe and Benvenuto by his mantle,
told them that he still saw giants leaping with fantastic gestures on their path, now running
along the house roofs, and now dancing on the earth. Each one of them that night dreamed in
his bed of devils.[367]

The interest of this incident is almost wholly picturesque. It throws but little light upon
the superstitions of the age.[368] The magnitude of the Colosseum, the popular legends concerning
its magical origin, and the terrible uses of blood to which it had been put, invested this
building with peculiar mystery. Robbers haunted the huge caves. Rubbish and weeds choked the
passages. Sickly trees soared up from darkness into light among the porches, and the moon peered
through the empty vomitories. If we call imagination to our aid, and place the necromancers
and their brazier in the centre of this space;--if we fancy the priest's chaunted spells, the
sacred names invoked in his unholy rites, the shuddering terror of the conscience-stricken
accomplices, and Cellini with defiant mien but quailing heart, we can well believe that he
saw more than the amphitheatre contained. Whether the spectres were projected by the conjurer
from a magic lantern on the smoke that issued from his heaps of blazing wood, so that the volumes
of vapour, agitated by the wind and rolling in thick spirals, showed them retreating and advancing,
and varying in shape and number, is a matter for conjecture. Cellini firmly believed that he
had been environed by living squadrons of the spirits of the damned.

