VOL. I.--NO. 24.

       *       *       *       *       *

NANCY HANSON'S PROJECT.

BY HOWARD PYLE.

It was in the old Quaker town of Wilmington, Delaware, and it was the evening of the day on
which the battle of Brandywine had been fought. The country people were coming into town in
sledges, and in heavy low carts with solid wheels made of slices from great tree trunks, loaded
with butter, eggs, milk, and vegetables; for the following day was market-day. Market-day came
every Fourth-day (Wednesday) and every Seventh-day (Saturday). Then the carts drew up in a
long line in Market Street, with their tail-boards to the sidewalk, and the farmers sold their
produce to the town people, who jostled each other as they walked up and down in front of the
market carts--a custom of street markets still carried on in Wilmington.

Friend William Stapler stopped, on his way to market in his cart, at Elizabeth Hanson's house,
in Shipley Street, to leave a dozen eggs and two pounds of butter, as he did each Tuesday and
Friday evening. Elizabeth came to the door with a basket for half a peck of potatoes. William
Stapler took off his broad-brimmed hat, and slowly rubbed his horny hand over his short-cut,
stubbly gray hair.

"Ah! I tell thee, Lizabeth, they're a-doin' great things up above Chadd's Ford. I hearn th'
canning a-boomin' away all day to-day. Ah, Lizabeth, the world's people is a wicked people.
They spare not the brother's blood when th' Adam is aroused within them. They stan' in slippery
places, Lizabeth."

"Does thee think they're fighting, William?"

"Truly I think they are. Ah! I tell thee, Lizabeth, they're differen' 'n when I was young.
Then we only feared the Injuns, 'n' now it's white men agin white men. They tuck eight young
turkeys of mine, 'n' only paid me ten shillin' fer 'em."

"But, oh, William, I do hope they're not fighting! I expect my son-in-law, Captain William
Bellach, and his friend Colonel Tilton, will stop here on their way to join General Washington;
and they may arrive to-night."

"Ah, Lizabeth, I've lifted up my voice in testimony agin the young men goin' to the wars an'
sheddin' blood. 'F a man diggeth a pit an' falleth into it himself, who shall help him out
thereof? Half a peck o' potatoes, did thee say, Lizabeth?"

       *       *       *       *       *

During the evening rumors became more exciting, and it was said that the Americans had been
defeated, and were retreating toward Philadelphia. Late that night Captain Bellach and Colonel
Tilton arrived at Elizabeth Hanson's house.

"I've heard the rumors, mother," said Captain Bellach. "I don't believe 'em; but even if there
was a file of British at the door here, I would be too tired to run away from them."

Pretty Nancy Hanson spoke up. "But, Billy, they would not only send thee and thy friend to
the hulks if they caught thee, but they might be rude to us women were they to find thee here."

"Yes, sister-in-law, if I thought there was any danger, I would leave instantly; but the British,
even if they have beaten us, will be too tired to come here to-night."

"I agree with my friend Will, Mistress Nancy," said Colonel Tilton. "Moreover, our horses are
too tired to take us farther to-night."

About two o'clock in the morning the silence of the deserted streets of the town was broken
by a rattling and jingling of steel, the heavy, measured tread of feet, and sharp commands
given in a low voice.

Nancy Hanson awakened at the noise, and jumping out of bed, ran to the window and looked out
into the moon-lit street beneath. A file of red-coated soldiers were moving by toward the old
Bull's Head Tavern. The cold moonlight glistened on their gun-barrels and bayonets as they
marched. Nancy ran to her mother's room and pounded vigorously on the door.

"Mother! mother! waken up!" she cried; "the British are come to town, sure enough!"

