Rathe (Vol. vii., p. 392.).--MR. CROSSLEY is, I believe, mistaken in his derivation of the
word rathe from the Celtic raithe, signifying inclination, although rather seems indisputably
to belong to it. Rathe is, I believe, identical with the Saxon adjective rætha, signifying
early. Chaucer's--

    "What aileth you so rathe for to arise,"

has been already quoted as bearing this meaning. Milton, in Lycidas, has--

    "Bring the rathe primrose that forsaken dies."

In a pastoral, called a "Palinode," by E. B., probably Edmond Bolton, in England's Helicon,
edit. 1614, occurs:

    "And make the rathe and timely primrose grow."

And we have "rathe and late," in a pastoral in Davidson's Poems, 4th edit., London, 1621.

Rathe is a word still in use in the Weald of Sussex, where Saxon still lingers in the dialect
of the common people; and a rathe, instead of an early spring, is spoken of; and a species
of early apple is known as the Rathe-ripe.

ANON.

Carr Pedigree (Vol. vii., p. 408.).--The pedigree description of Lady Carr is "Gresil, daughter
of Sir Robert Meredyth, Knt., Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland." Sir George Carr died
Feb. 13, 1662-3, and was buried in Dublin. His sons were 1, Thomas, and 2, William; and a daughter
Mary, who married 1st, Dr. Thomas Margetson (son to the Archbishop of Armagh); and 2ndly, Dr.
Michael Ward. The pedigree is continued through Thomas the eldest son, who was the father of
the Bishop of Killaloe. It does not appear that William left any issue. His wife's name was
Elizabeth, daughter of Edward Sing, D.D., Lord Bishop of Cork.

W. ST.

Banbury Cakes (Vol. vii., p. 106.).--In A Treatise of Melancholy, by T. Bright, doctor of physic,
and published in 1586, I find the following:

    "Sodden wheat is of a grosse and melancholicke nourishment, and bread
    especially of the fine flower unleavened: of this sort are bag-puddings
    or pan-puddings made with flour, frittars, pancakes, such as we call
    Banberie cakes, and those great ones confected with butter, eggs,
    &c., used at weddings; and howsoever it be prepared, rye and bread made
    thereof carrieth with it plentie of melancholie."

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Elstow, Bedfordshire, is an instance of a bell tower separated from the body of the church.

B. H. C.

Dates on Tombstones (Vol. vii., p. 331.).--A correspondent asks for instances of dates on tombstones
prior to 1601. I cannot give any, but I can refer to some slabs lying upon the ground in a
churchyard near Oundle (Tausor if I remember aright), on which appear in relief recumbent figures
with the hands upon the breast, crossed, or in the attitude of prayer. These are of a much
earlier date, and I should be much pleased to know if many or any such instances elsewhere occur.

B. H. C.

Subterranean Bells (Vol. vii., pp. 128. 328.).--Bells under ground and under water, so often
referred to, remind me of the Oundle Drumming Well, which I remember seeing when a child. There
is a legend connected with it which I heard, but cannot accurately recollect. The well itself
is referred to in Brand, vol. ii. p. 369. (Bohn's ed.), but the legend is not given.

B. H. C.

Mistletoe in Ireland (Vol. ii., p. 270.).--I have just received, in full blossom, a very fine
spray from a luxuriant plant of this parasite growing on an apple tree in the gardens of Farmley,
the seat of William Lloyd Flood, Esq., in the county of Kilkenny. This plant of mistletoe has
existed at {513} Farmley beyond the memory of the present generation; but Mr. Flood's impression,
communicated to me, is, that it was artificially produced from seed by some former gardener.
If natural, which may be the case, this instance of its occurrence in Ireland is, I believe,
unique.

JAMES GRAVES.

Kilkenny.

Stars and Flowers (Vol. iv., p. 22.; Vol. vii., p. 151. 341.).--Passages illustrative of this
similitude have been quoted from Cowley, Longfellow, Hood, and Moir. The metaphor is also made
use of by Darwin, in his Loves of the Plants:

 "Roll on, ye stars! exult in youthful prime,
  Mark with bright curves the printless steps of time;
  Flowers of the sky! ye, too, to age must yield,
  Frail as your silken sisters of the field."

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

The Painting by Fuseli (Vol. vii., p. 453.).--The picture by the late Henry Fuseli, R.A., inquired
after by MR. SANSOM, is in the collection at Sir John Soane's Museum; it was purchased by him
in 1802.

It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1780, and is thus entered in the Catalogue of that year:

    "No. 77. Ezzelin Bracciaferro musing over Meduna, destroyed by him, for
    disloyalty, during his absence in the Holy Land. Fuseli."

There is an engraving of the picture in Essays on Physiognomy, by J. C. Lavater, translated
from the French by Henry Hunter, D.D., 4to.: London, 1789. The second volume, p. 294.

The inscription under that engraving, by Holloway, is as follows:

    "Ezzelin, Count of Ravenna, surnamed Bracciaferro or Iron Arm, musing
    over the body of Meduna; slain by him, for infidelity, during his
    absence in the Holy Land."

GEORGE BAILEY.

The subject of your correspondent J. SANSOM'S inquiry is in the Soane Museum, Lincoln's Inn
Fields. Search among the Italian story-tellers will not discover the origin of the picture
of Count Ezzelin's remorse: it sprung from that fertile source of fearful images--Henry Fuseli's
brain. The work might well have been left without a name, but for the requirements of the Royal
Academy Catalogue, and, it must be added, Fuseli's desire to mystify the Italian as well as
the other scholars of his day.

For confirmation of the correctness of these statements, I refer your correspondent to the
Life of Fuseli by Knowles, and to that by Cunningham in the Lives of the British Painters.

R. F., Jun.

"Navita Erythræum" (Vol. vii., p. 382.).--Since I requested a reference to these lines, I have
possessed myself of a very elaborate Latin work on Bells, in two vols. 8vo., published at Rome,
1822, by Alexander Lazzarinus, De Vario Tintinnabulorum usu apud veteres Hebræos et Ethnicos:
wherein, in a section on the effect of the sound of bells on different animals, he quotes those
very lines from "Cornelius Kilianus Dufflæus in suis poematibus."

I shall now be thankful to be told something about the said Dufflæus,--who and what he was,--when
and where he lived?

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Rectory, Clyst St. George.

       *       *       *       *       *

