Of this emphatically vital question Professor Huxley, as has been already intimated, takes
a diametrically opposite view. He does not merely, in sufficiently explicit terms, deny that
there is any intrinsic difference between matter and spirit, and affirm the two to be, in spite
of appearances, essentially identical. If this were all, I at any rate should not be entitled
to object, for I shall myself presently have occasion to use very similar language, although
attaching to it a widely different meaning from that with which it is used by Professor Huxley.
But the latter goes on to avow his belief that the human body, like every other living body,
is a machine, all the operations of which will sooner or later be explained on physical principles,
insomuch that we shall eventually arrive at a mechanical equivalent of consciousness, even
as we have already arrived at a mechanical equivalent of heat. He considers that with the same
propriety with which the amount of heat which a pound weight produces by falling through the
distance of a foot, may be called its equivalent in one sense, may the amount of feeling which
the pound produces by falling through a foot of distance on a gouty big toe, be called its
equivalent in another sense, to wit, that of consciousness. Yet he protests against these tenets
being deemed materialistic, which, he declares, they certainly neither are nor can be, for
that while he himself certainly holds them, he as certainly is not himself a materialist. Professor
Huxley is among the last to be suspected of talking anything, as Monsieur Jourdain did prose,
without knowing it. He knows perfectly well that he has here been talking materialism, but
he insists that his materialism is only another form of idealism. He seeks to evade the seemingly
inevitable deduction from his premises by representing both matter and spirit as mere names,
and names, too, not for real things, but for fanciful hypotheses which may be spoken of indifferently
in materialistic or in spiritualistic terms, thought in the one case being treated as a form
of matter, and matter in the other as a form of thought. The identity of matter and spirit
is, in short, represented by him as consisting in this: that the existence of both is merely
nominal, or at best merely ideal.

Ordinary folk may perhaps be somewhat slow to derive from this compromising theory all the
comfort which its author deems it capable of affording. Most of us may, probably, be inclined
to think that we might as well have been left to fret in the frying-pan of materialism as be
cast headlong into idealistic fire, to no better end than that of being there fused body and
soul together, and sublimated into inapprehensible nothingness. Our immediate concern, however,
is not with the pleasantness of the theory, but with its truth; in proceeding to test which
we shall probably find that there is as little warrant for idealising matter after this fashion
as we have already seen that there is for materialising mind.

The originator of the theory about to be examined, or rather, perhaps, of a somewhat different
theory out of which this has been developed--not to say perverted--may, without much inaccuracy,
be pronounced to be Descartes. He it was who, perceiving that we are surrounded on all sides
by illusions of all sorts, that not only is there no authority or testimony implicitly to be
depended on, but that our senses likewise often play the traitor, and that we can never be
perfectly sure whether we are really seeing, hearing, or feeling, or merely thinking or dreaming
that we see, hear, or feel, and looking anxiously around for one single point at least on which
complete confidence might be placed, discovered such a point in thought. Whatever else we may
doubt about, we cannot, he justly argued, doubt that there are thoughts. If it were possible
to doubt this, our very doubt would be thought, constituting and presenting as evidence the
very existence doubted of. Our thoughts, then, are unquestionably real existences. They may
be delusive, but they cannot possibly be fictitious.

We may perhaps hereafter have occasion to note how Descartes, having thus secured one firm
foothold and solid resting-place, outwent the farthest stretch of Archimedean ambition by using
it, not as a fulcrum from whence to move the world, but as a site for logical foundations whereon
he might, if he had persevered, have raised the superstructure of an universe at once mental
and material.[32] Intermediately, however, we have to observe how two pre-eminent disciples
of the Cartesian school have perverted the fundamental proposition of their great master by
treating its converse as its synonyme. Descartes having demonstrated that all thought is existence,
Bishop Berkeley and Professor Huxley infer that all existence is thought. So says the Professor
in so many words, and to precisely the same effect is the more diffuse language of the Bishop,
where, speaking of 'all the choir of heaven and furniture of earth, of all the bodies which
compose the mighty frame of the world,' he declares that their esse is percipi, that their
'being' consists in their being 'perceived or known,' and that unless they were actually perceived
by, or existed in, some created or uncreate mind, they could not possibly exist at all.

The reasoning in support of these assertions is in substance as follows:--We know nothing of
any material object except by the sensations which it produces in our minds. What we are accustomed
to call the qualities of an object are nothing else but the mental sensations of various kinds
which the object produces within us. Some of these qualities, such as extension, figure, solidity,
motion, and number, are classed as primary; others, as, for instance, smell, taste, colour,
sound, as secondary. Now that these latter have no existence apart from mind can readily be
shown thus. If I prick my finger with a needle, the pain I suffer in consequence is surely
in myself, not in the needle, nor anywhere else but in myself. If an orange be placed on my
open hand, my sensation of touching it is in myself, not in the orange. If the orange could
feel, what it would feel would be a hand, while what I am feeling is an orange. Nor are my
sensations of pain and touch merely confined to myself; they are also confined to a particular
part of myself, viz., to the brain, the seat of my consciousness, which it is, and not the
finger or hand, that really feels when the one is hurt, or when anything comes in harmless
contact with the other. To prove this, let the fine nervous threads, which, running up the
whole length of the arm, connect the skin of the finger with the spinal marrow and brain, be
cut through close to the spinal cord, and no pain will be felt, whatever injury be done: while
if the ends which remain in connection with the cord be pricked, the sensation of pricking
in the finger will arise just as distinctly as before. Or let a walking-stick be held firmly
by the handle, and its other end be touched, and the tactile sensation will be experienced
as if at the end of the stick, where, however, it plainly cannot be. It is the mind alone which
feels, but which, by a peculiar faculty of localisation or extradition, seems to remove a feeling
exclusively its own, not only to the outside of itself, but to the outside also of the walls
of its fleshly tenement. And as it is with pain or touch, so it is with every sensation with
which any of the so-called secondary qualities of matter are identical. If I look at, or smell,
or taste a blood orange, the sensation of colour, or scent, or flavour I receive is entirely
and exclusively my own, the orange remaining quite unconscious of its own redness, or fragrance,
or sweetness, and not, indeed, possessing in itself any real qualities of the kind. For to
take redness as an example; how does the sensation of it or of any other colour arise? The
waves of a certain very attenuated medium, the particles of which are vibrating with vast rapidity
but with very different velocities, strike upon an object and are thrown off in all directions.
Of the particles which vibrate with any particular velocity, some are gathered by the optical
apparatus of the eye, and deflected so as to impinge on the retina and on the fibres of the
optic nerve therewith connected, producing in these fibres a change which is followed by other
changes in the brain, which, again, by virtue of some inscrutable union between the brain and
the mind, create a feeling or consciousness of colour. What the particular colour shall be,
depends either on the rate of motion in the vibrating medium or on the character of the retina;
and if, while the former remained the same, the other were to be altered, or if two persons,
with differently formed retinas, and one of the two colour-blind, were to be looking, what
had first seemed red might now seem green, or what seemed red to one spectator might seem green
to the other. But as the same object cannot itself be both red and green at the same time,
it follows that what are called its redness and greenness are not in it, but in the spectator.
Similarly, the sounds which an object appears to give forth neither are nor ever were in it:
they originate in the mind of the hearer, and have not, and never have had any existence elsewhere.
'If the whole body were an eye, where,' asks St. Paul, 'were the hearing? If the whole were
hearing, where were the smelling?' and Professor Huxley more than meets the drift of the Apostle's
questions by pronouncing it 'impossible to imagine but that if the universe contained only
blind and deaf beings, darkness and silence would reign everywhere.'

And as with the secondary qualities of matter, so, on the same showing, must it be with the
primary. If colour, taste, scent, and the like, exist nowhere but in the mind, so neither do
extension, solidity, and the like. If the former could not exist unless there were intelligent
minds to perceive them, then neither could the latter. For, by extension and its cognates,
we understand simply relations which we conceive to exist between certain qualities of objects
identical with certain of our own visual and tactile sensations, or between these and our consciousness
of muscular effort; but inasmuch as all sensations and all consciousness are purely mental,
and exist nowhere but in the mind, it follows necessarily that ideas of relation between different
sensations, or between sensations and consciousness, must also be purely mental, and non-existent
save in the mind. All the qualities of matter, therefore, primary as well as secondary, are
alike conceptions of the mind, and consequently could not exist without a mind for them to
be conceived by and to exist in. But if the qualities did not exist, then matter, which cannot
be conceived otherwise than as an assemblage of qualities, could not exist either. Wherefore
in respect of matter itself, as well as of the qualities of matter, esse is percipi, essence
is perception, to be is to be perceived. Wherefore, finally, if there were no mind to perceive
matter, matter could not exist. Q. E. D.[33]

Although in the foregoing summary of an argument to which not Berkeley and Huxley alone, but
others of the deepest and acutest thinkers that this country has produced, have contributed,
I have strenuously laboured to state all its points as convincingly as the obligations of brevity
would permit, I am not myself by any means convinced by it. On the contrary, although to say
so may seem to imply a considerable overstock of modest assurance, still I do say that whatever
portion of it is sound is irrelevant, and that whatever portion is relevant is not sound. So
much of it as relates to the nature of the qualities of matter, is, however interesting or
otherwise important, very little, if at all, to the purpose. No doubt if I prick my finger
with a needle, or--to take in preference an illustration employed by Locke--if my fingers ache
in consequence of my handling snow, it would be supremely ridiculous to talk of the pain I
feel being in the snow; yet not a whit more ridiculous than to call the snow itself white or
cold, if, by so speaking, I mean that anything in the slightest degree resembling my sensation
of either snowy whiteness or snowy coldness resides in the snow itself. And as of coldness
and whiteness, so of all the other so-styled secondary qualities. If I smell a rose, or listen
to a piano, the rose or the piano is quite insensible to the scent or sounds by which my sense
is ravished. And of primary qualities, also, precisely the same thing may with equal confidence
be alleged. A stone which I perceive to be large, round, hard, and either rotating or motionless,
has no more perception of its own extension, figure, solidity, motion, or rest than a snowball
has of its colour or temperature. But all this, though perfectly true, has nothing to do with
the question, which is not what qualities of matter are, but where they are, and whether they
can exist anywhere but in mind; and this question, I submit, is distinctly begged by those
who assume, as is done throughout the reasoning under examination, that our sensations with
regard to material objects, and the qualities of those objects, are synonymous and convertible
terms. Incontestably, sensations are affections of the mind which neither have nor can have
any existence outside the mind. If, then, the qualities of objects are identical with the sensations
which arise in the mind concerning those objects, why, of course, the qualities likewise can
exist nowhere but in the mind. On narrowly scrutinising, however, the supposed identity, we
shall find that it involves somewhat reckless confusion of diametrical opposites. When I look
at or smell a rose, or eat a beefsteak, or listen to a piano, the sensations which thereupon
arise within me, whether immediately or subsequently, either are the results of my seeing,
smelling, eating, or hearing, or they are not. To say that they are not is equivalent to saying
that an object need not be within reach of the perceptive faculties in order to be perceived;
that I may see or smell a rose, though there be no rose to be seen or smelt; may dine sumptuously
off empty dishes, and be raised to the seventh heaven of delight by the audible strains of
a music which is not being executed. Fortunati nimium--only too lucky would mankind be, did
this turn out to be a correct theory, affording as it would a solution of every social problem,
and serving as a panacea for every social evil. Psychology would then be the only science worth
attention, for of whatever things proficiency in that branch of study had qualified any one
to form mental images, of those same things would he simultaneously become possessor in full
property. Whoever had succeeded in training himself to imagine vigorously might at once have,
do, or be whatever it pleased him to imagine, becoming ipso facto, as the Stoics used to say
an acquirer of virtue does, 'rich, beautiful, a king.' Woe betide any one, however, who, as
long as the cosmical constitution remains what it is, shall attempt to put the theory into
practice, and desisting from all those animal functions, involving intercourse with a real
or imaginary external world, which are vulgarly supposed essential to animal existence, shall
obstinately restrict himself to the sensations which he believes the mind to be, without any
such intercourse, capable of creating for the body's sustenance and delectation. The physical
extinction inevitably consequent on such devotion to principle would speedily render all the
devotees physically incapable of testifying in behalf of their peculiar opinion, and, clearing
them away, would leave no witnesses surviving but such as were signifying by deeds if not in
words their hearty adherence to the popular belief. Practically, then, there may be assumed
to be entire unanimity of assent to the truism that for our senses to be affected by the presence
of external objects, the objects must needs be present to affect them. On all hands it is in
effect admitted that in some mode or other external objects exist, but if so, and if the sensations
resulting from operations performed by the bodily organs with external objects would not have
resulted unless the objects had been present to operate or to be operated upon, clearly there
must be resident in, or inseparably bound up with, the objects a power or powers of producing
sensation in conscious mind. But the power of producing sensation, and sensation itself, are
not one and the same thing, but two separate and distinct things, intrinsically distinct and
locally separate. The feeling, agreeable or painful, according to its intensity, which heat
occasions, is not the same thing as the heat by which it is occasioned. The twofold taste,
sweet to a healthy, bitter to a distempered palate, of one and the same aliment, cannot be
identical with the single property of the aliment whereby the taste is produced. In the sense
of seeming red to a spectator with normally constructed eyes, and green to one who is colour-blind,
a ruby or a Siberian crab is at once both red and green, but the two colours which it causes
to be perceived cannot be identical with the peculiar structure, or whatever else it be, whereby
the ruby or Siberian crab communicates to circumambient ether the one self-same motion that
terminates in different impressions on differently constructed eyes. In these and in all cases
of the kind the feeling is in the mind, the source of the feeling in matter. The one is a perception,
the other a quality, and to mistake the quality, not merely for a perception, but for the very
perception to which the quality gives rise; and to infer thence that the quality must likewise
be in the mind, is an instance as glaring as can well be imagined of that most heinous of logical
offences, the confounding of cause with effect.

By what steps Berkeley was led, and has since led so many after him, into so grave an error,
he has himself acquainted us. Thus it is that he argues: By sensible things can be meant only
such as can be perceived immediately by sense: and sensible qualities are of course sensible
things. But the only perceptions of sense are sensations, and all perceptions are purely mental.
Wherefore, sensible qualities being, as such, perceptible immediately by the senses, must be
sensations, and being sensations must be perceptions, and being perceptions they are of course
purely mental, and existent nowhere save in the mind. Carefully, however, as Berkeley fancied
he was picking his way, he really had tripped, and that fatally, at the second step. He calls
the qualities of objects sensible things; but sensible they are not according to his definition,
for they are not capable of being immediately perceived by the senses. It is not sense which
perceives, but reason which infers them. The senses, as Berkeley elsewhere repeatedly and earnestly
insists, receive nothing from objects but sensations, and these they communicate to the mind
without accompanying them by the slightest hint as to whence they originally came. The senses
suggest nothing as to any qualities resident in or appertaining to an object corresponding
with the sensations derived from the object. The existence of such qualities is an inference
of reason which, taking for granted that sensations, in common with all other occurrences,
must have causes, and observing that certain of them commonly occur in the presence of certain
objects, and never occur in the absence of those objects, infers that the causes of the sensations
must exist in the objects. To the causes thus inferred the name of qualities is given, to distinguish
them from the sensations whereof they are causes; and the Berkeleian transgression consists
in overlooking the distinction between things so diametrically opposite.

By the commission of such a sin the most powerful intellect becomes inevitably committed to
further enormities. Except by neglecting to distinguish between sight and hearing, the effects,
and light and sound, their respective causes, it would surely have been impossible for Professor
Huxley to come to the strange conclusion that if all living beings were blind and deaf, 'darkness
and silence would everywhere reign.' Had he not himself previously explained that light and
sound are peculiar motions communicated to the vibrating particles of an universally diffused
ether, which motions, on reaching the eye or ear, produce impressions, which, after various
modifications, result eventually in seeing or hearing? How these motions are communicated to
the ether matters not. Only it is indispensable to note that they are not communicated by the
percipient owner of the eye or ear, so that the fact of there being no percipient present cannot
possibly furnish any reason why the motions should not go on all the same. But as long as they
did go on there would necessarily be light and sound; for the motions are themselves light
and sound. If, on returning to his study in which, an hour before, he had left a candle burning
and a clock ticking, Professor Huxley should perceive from the appearance of candle and clock
that they had gone on burning and ticking during his absence, would he doubt that they had
likewise gone on producing the motions constituting and termed light and sound, notwithstanding
that no eyes or ears had been present to see or hear? But if he did not doubt this, how could
he any more doubt that, although all sentient creatures suddenly became eyeless and earless,
the sun might go on shining, and the wind roaring, and the sea bellowing as before?

Akin to the inadvertence which, as I presume to think, has led Professor Huxley thus to misconceive
secondary qualities, is an inattention to the differences between our ideas, or mental pictures,
and the originals whereof those pictures are copies, which seems to me seriously to vitiate
his reasoning with regard to primary qualities. With admirable perspicuity he shows[34] how
it is that our notions of primary qualities are formed; how the mind, by localising on distinct
points of the sensory surface of the body its various, tactile sensations, obtains the idea
of extension, or space in two dimensions, of figure, number, and motion: how the power, combined
with consciousness of the power, of moving the hand in all directions over any substance it
is in contact with, adds the idea of geometrical solidity, or of space in three dimensions:
how the ideas thus formed with the aid of the sense of touch are confirmed by, and blended
with, others derived from visual sensations and muscular movements of the eye: and, finally,
how the idea of mechanical solidity, or impenetrability, arises from experience of resistance
to our muscular exertions. All these details, however, interesting as they are, are nevertheless
quite out of place. What we are at present concerned with is the nature of the things themselves,
not the nature of our knowledge of them. No question that this latter is purely mental. If
figure, motion, and solidity were really, as Professor Huxley says, each of them nothing but
a perception of the relation of two or more sensations to one another, no question but that,
since the mind is the sole seat of perception, they could exist nowhere else. But if all these
suppositions be incorrect, if, as we have seen, there be in matter and apart from mind, potentialities
of producing sensations, it follows that, in matter, and outside of mind, there must be relations
between different potentialities, and there must, moreover, be limits to, and there may be
changes in, those relations. Wherefore, since there is in matter a potentiality of imparting
to the mind those sensations whence it derives its ideas of place and distance, and since figure
is but a 'limitation of distance,' and motion but a 'change of place,' it necessarily follows
that there is in matter a potentiality of conveying to the mind those sensations whence it
derives its ideas of figure and motion. And a similar remark applies equally to solidity, and
to every other so-called quality of matter. All of them are substantive potentialities of producing
in the mind those sensations whence our ideas of themselves (the qualities) are derived. No
doubt all these qualities would be inconceivable in the absence of a mind by which they might
be conceived, but it is not necessary that, in order to be, they should be conceived. In discussions
of any abstruseness we cannot be too precise in our use of words, and we shall inevitably be
going astray here if we allow ourselves for a moment to forget that a quality and the conception
of that quality are not one single thing, but two things. Can it be seriously supposed that
if all the conscious creatures, of every description, by which the universe is peopled, were
to fall temporarily into complete stupor, the material universe would, at the commencement
of the trance, be deprived of its extension, solidity, figure, and all its other constituent
properties, recovering them again as soon as its inhabitants woke up again? Can it be doubted
that, on the contrary, all potentialities resident in its material composition would pursue
the even tenor of their way just as if nothing had happened; performing, during the temporary
absence of external percipient minds, precisely those operations which, as soon as consciousness
returned to those minds, would be followed by the perceptions of sight, hearing, and touch?
But if so, then plainly it is exceedingly derogatory to matter to charge it with such absolute
dependence on external support that its very being consists in being perceived from without.
That matter cannot exist without mind I cheerfully admit, or rather most earnestly affirm,
proposing presently to explain in what sense I make the affirmation. Meanwhile let it suffice
to have ascertained that the mental service with which matter cannot dispense, whatever else
it be, is at any rate not, as the whole Berkeleian school so positively insist, that of mental
testimony to its existence.

