Above the Island of Bacchus he found himself in a beautiful harbour, on the farther side of
which the great river of Canada boomed through a narrow gorge. On the left of the basin the
broader channel of the river passed out between the Isle of Bacchus and a range of wooded heights;
while on his right, a tower of rock rose majestically from the foam-flecked water. Among the
oak and walnut trees that crowned the summit of this natural battlement clustered the bark
cabins of Stadaconé, whence, as wide as eye could range, the Lord of Canada held his savage sway.

[Footnote 2: Now the Island of Orleans.]

This Algonquin eyrie seemed only accessible by a long detour through the upland, in which the
rocky heights gradually descended to the little river of St. Croix. Thither Cartier and his
companions made their way, and then, for the first time, white men gazed upon the green landscape
spread beneath that high promontory. On the north and east the blue rim of the world's oldest
mountains, then as now, seemed to shut off a mysterious barren land; on the south and west
the eye met a fairer prospect, for beyond a sea of verdure the sun's rays glistened upon the
distant hills of unknown, unnamed Vermont. Between these half-points of the compass the broad
St. Lawrence rolled outward to the sea, and the discovering eye followed its bending course
beyond the Isle of Bacchus and past the beetling shoulder of Cap Tourmente. In the summer of
1535 Cartier stood entranced on this magnificent precipice; and to-day the visitor to Quebec
gazes from the King's Bastion upon the same panorama, hardly altered by the flight of nearly
four centuries.

But Quebec had yet for many years to await its founder. Cartier's mission was one of discovery,
not colonisation; and he resolved to push further up the river to Hochelaga, an important village
of which the Indians had told him. But Donnacona soon repented of the information he had given,
and left nothing undone to turn Cartier from his purpose. As a last resource the magicians
of Stadaconé devised a plan to frighten the obstinate Frenchman, but the crude masquerade arranged
for that purpose provoked nothing but amusement. A large canoe came floating slowly down the
river, and when it drew near the ships the Frenchmen beheld three black devils, garbed in dogskins,
and wearing monstrous horns upon their heads. Chanting the hideous monotones of the medicine
men, they glided past the fleet, made for the shore, and disappeared in the thicket. Presently,
Cartier's two interpreters issued from the wood and declared that the god Coudouagny had sent
his three chief priests to warn the French against ascending the river, predicting dire calamities
if they should persist. Cartier's reply to the Indian deity was brief and irreverent, and he
forthwith made ready to depart.

The Hermine and Emerillon were towed to safer moorings in the quiet St. Croix, and with the
pinnace and a small company of men Cartier set out for Hochelaga. The journey was long and
toilsome, but by the beginning of October they came to a beautiful island, the site of Montreal.
A thousand Indians thronged the shore to welcome the mysterious visitors, presenting gifts
of fish and fruit and corn. Then, by a well-worn trail, the savages led the way through the
forest to the foot of the mountain, and into the triple palisades of Hochelaga.

The early frosts of autumn had already touched the trees, and Cartier, having accomplished
his exploration, hastened back to Stadaconé, where he set about making preparations for spending
the winter. A fort was hastily built at the mouth of the St. Croix. But the exiles were unready
for the violent season that soon closed in upon them, almost burying their fort in drifting
snow and casing the ships in an armour of glistening ice. Pent up by the biting frost, and
eking out a wretched existence on salted food, their condition grew deplorable. A terrible
scurvy assailed the camp, and out of a company of one hundred and ten, twenty-five died, while
only three or four of the rest escaped its ravages. The flint-like ground defied their feeble
spades, and the dead bodies were hidden away in banks of snow. To make matters still worse,
the Indians grew first indifferent, and then openly hostile. Cartier was sorely beset to conceal
from them the weakness of his garrison. At last, however, a friendly Indian told him of a decoction
by which the scurvy might be cured. The leaves of a certain evergreen were put to brew, and
this medicine proved the salvation of the decimated company.

By and by came the spring; and when at last sun and rain had loosed the fetters of ice, Cartier
determined to return to France. Before the ships weighed anchor, however, Donnacona and four
of his companions were enticed on board, and with these sorry trophies the French captain turned
his prows homeward. At midsummer-time the storm-battered ships glided once more into the rock-bound
harbour of St. Malo.

Five years elapsed before France sent another expedition into the New World. The perennial
conflict with Charles V. kept the French king's mind fixed on his home dominions, and Chabot,
Cartier's former patron, had fallen upon evil times. At last, however, a new adventurer appeared
in the person of the Sieur de Roberval, a nobleman of Picardy. Under him Cartier was persuaded
to take the post of Captain-General. The objects of the enterprise were discovery, colonisation,
and the conversion of the Indians; albeit the instruments for this pious purpose were more
than doubtful, their five ships being freighted for the most part with thieves and malefactors
recruited from the prisons of France.

An unexpected delay occurring at St. Malo, it was determined that Cartier should sail at once,
and that Roberval should follow as soon as possible with additional ships and supplies. Accordingly,
on the 23rd of May, 1541, Cartier again spread his sails for the West, and after a stormy passage
arrived in the St. Lawrence. The uncertain attitude of the Indians, however, prompted him to
establish his colony further westward than Stadaconé, and he continued his course up the river
and dropped anchor at Cap Rouge.

Summer and autumn passed away and brought no sign of Roberval. A gloomy winter further damped
the spirits of the colonists at Charlesburg-Royal; and when the ice had gone out of the river,
Cartier gathered his company back into the ships and set sail again for France. At Newfoundland
he encountered the belated Roberval. High words were exchanged, and, as a result, the fiery
Viceroy sailed alone to New France; and Cartier, bidding Canada a last farewell, held on his
way to St. Malo. But the inexperience and imprudence of the haughty Viceroy soon put his establishment
in sore straits. Ignorance of physical conditions and disregard of natural laws of health had
always been the chief cause of suffering among these transatlantic exiles, and Roberval now
added a lamentable want of perception and solicitude. Unlike Cartier, the inexorable Viceroy
did not recognise his colonists as companions in privation, but ruled them with a rod of iron.
The pillory, the whipping-post, and the scaffold were distressing features in his system. Then
came winter, famine, and the scurvy. Fifty of the settlers died, and by spring even the headstrong
Roberval was ready to forsake his enterprise. His departure ends the earliest period of French
adventure in America.

Thenceforth, for more than half a century, France writhed in civil war, and spared no vessel
to explore the great river of Canada. For all these years New France was left to its aboriginal
inhabitants and to fate.

CHAPTER II

THE ERA OF CHAMPLAIN

The name of Champlain must ever stand before all others in the history of Quebec. He was the
founder of the city, and for more than a quarter of a century he was its very life. If repeated
disappointment and misfortune could have brought this great empire-builder to despair; if obstacles
apparently impossible to overcome could have turned the hero from his purpose, Quebec would
not be to-day the oldest city in the western hemisphere. As it was, his character gave the
keynote not only to the great fortress-capital, but to the whole history of New France. He
was an embodiment at once of the religious zeal and of the mediæval spirit of romance which
carried the Bourbon lilies into the trackless wilderness of North America, at a time when English
colonisation contented itself with a narrow strip on the Atlantic seaboard.

Samuel de Champlain was born in 1567 at the small seaport of Brouage, on the Bay of Biscay.
His father was a captain in the French navy, in which profession the son also received early
training. In the conflict between the King and the rebellious Duc de Mercoeur and the League,
Champlain was found on the Royalist side; and Henry the Fourth rewarded his faithful subject
with a pension and a place at court. But the war in Brittany was not long over before Champlain
became restless. The spirit of adventure beat strong in his veins, and at length he determined
upon a project which, while it should serve the purpose of the King, was also well spiced with
peril. Proceeding to Cadiz, where his uncle was Pilot-General of the Spanish marine, Champlain
obtained command of one of the ships in Don Francisco Colombo's fleet, bound for the West Indies.
On this voyage he was absent from France more than two years, visiting not only the West Indies,
but also Mexico and Central America.

On his return, these travels gave him an unusual importance at the French court; and when,
in 1603, the aged De Chastes, Governor of Dieppe, decided to seal his pious life with an enterprise
for the King and for the Church, the adventurous Champlain became the instrument of his purpose.

De Chastes' two small vessels set sail from Honfleur, one commanded by Pontgravé, the other
by Champlain. The voyage was long but uneventful. Pontgravé's former trading-post at Tadousac
had been abandoned, and they held their lonely way up the St. Lawrence, past the mantling rock
of Stadaconé, on to the wooded heights of Hochelaga. Cartier's Indian village of sixty-eight
years before had disappeared--undoubtedly swept from existence by the relentless Iroquois.
At this point, however, the foaming St. Louis rapids barred their way, and the caravels were
turned homeward. With wind and current down the river, and out through the Gulf, in due season
they came safely to Havre de Grace.

In their absence the Sieur de Chastes had died; but De Monts, another courtier at the Louvre,
succeeded to the patent for colonising in the New World. Exploration was not to rest, and Champlain
and the Baron de Poutrincourt accompanied the new Deputy in his Acadian expedition of 1604.
Once more the Atlantic was crossed. Passing Cap la Hêve the explorers sought a suitable site
for their colony along this coast, and when they reached the beautiful basin of Annapolis,
hemmed in by a circle of wooded hills, the artistic Poutrincourt was charmed, and forthwith
obtained from De Monts a private grant of the surrounding country. He established his demesne
here, naming the place Port Royal, while Champlain and De Monts, continuing their way around
the Bay of Fundy, came at length to the bleak island of St. Croix, where they founded their colony.

There is no need to present fully the vicissitudes of the tiny settlement. Scurvy and the rigours
of the first winter carried off thirty-five colonists out of a total of seventy-nine. The winter
of 1606-1607 was happily much less severe; moreover, Champlain's "Ordre de Bon-Temps," and
Lescarbot's wit and gaiety contributed to cheer the shivering exiles. In the spring, however,
the first ship from St. Malo brought bad news from France. The enemies of De Monts at home
had triumphed, and had persuaded the King to cancel the charter of the Deputy. In a way this
contretemps led to the founding of Quebec.

Although De Monts was no longer Lieutenant-General of Acadia, he was yet unwilling to give
up the scheme which appealed so strongly to his adventurous nature. On his return to Paris,
his influence had been sufficient to secure for one year a monopoly of the new fur trade. Champlain,
cherishing the memory of the voyage of the previous year, persuaded him that the valley of
the St. Lawrence would serve his purpose better even than Acadia, and between them they planned
an expedition in which profit and adventure were evenly mingled. Two ships were fitted out--the
one commanded by Champlain, the other by the elder Pontgravé. The latter was to revive the
old trading-station of Tadousac, while Champlain was to establish, further inland, a fortified
post from which expeditions might set forth to find the hoped-for passage to Cathay.

Pontgravé sailed from Honfleur on the 5th of April, 1608, Champlain following on the 13th of
the same month. His was the first ship to carry a permanent colony to New France. Crossing
the wide gulf by Anticosti, the little vessel of Champlain stopped at Tadousac to do a timely
service for his colleague who was now further up the river. The stately grandeur of the scene
was not new to Champlain. Five years before he had glided past the yawning cañon through which
the dark Saguenay rushed down from the north; he had gazed upon the blue sky-line of the Laurentian
mountains; in the caravel of De Chastes the surging tide had carried him past the Isle of Bacchus
and the milky cataract of Montmorency.

Anon the channel narrows; on the left are the Heights of Levi, and on the right a frowning
cliff shoulders far into the stream. Here ancient Stadaconé stood; but the Iroquois passed
over it long since, and the village is gone. On this spot Champlain decided to establish his
post, and what site could be more suitable than that found by the Breton mariners as they rounded
the point of Orleans? They had entered a beautiful harbour where an armada might safely ride
at anchor. On their left the Heights of Levi formed the southern boundary of the glistening
basin; on their right, a tiny river murmured through the lowlands; and beyond it a rugged promontory
thrust into the current a tower of rock, commanding the narrow channel into which the mighty
St. Lawrence was here compressed. The solitude of a forest wilderness now hung over the site
of Stadaconé. On the narrow wooded strand at the base of this rocky eyrie, Champlain made a
landing.

Trees were felled, and in the clearing the log foundations of "L'Habitation" were laid. Ere
the summer ended it was completed; and a sketch from Champlain's own unskilled pencil has preserved
its grotesque likeness. First of all there was a moat, then a staunch wall of logs, with loopholes
for musketry, and, inside, three buildings and a courtyard. Over all rose a dove-cot, quaintly
mediæval, and prettily symbolical of Champlain's peaceful invasion. But Indians were Indians,
and two or three small cannon were accordingly mounted on salient platforms on the riverside.
A large storehouse was also built inside the palisade; and presently Champlain laid out a flower
garden.

In preparing against foes without, however, Champlain had taken no thought for foes within.
Not all of the little company had the same enthusiasm as their leader, and a plot was set on
foot to destroy him, and sell Quebec to the Spaniards and the Basques. Fortunately the fidelity
of his pilot saved Champlain from assassination. Warning reached him in time, and he dealt
fearlessly and rigorously with the mutinous crew. The four ringleaders were decoyed on board
a pinnace from Tadousac, and seized and put in irons. The body of the chief conspirator swung
next morning from the cross-trees, and his three companions were sent back to the galleys of
France. A free pardon for the minor malcontents secured their loyalty from that time forward.

In September, Pontgravé set sail for France, and Champlain and his twenty-eight companions
made ready for the winter. Frost and snow came early that year, and a devastating scurvy invaded
the Habitation. The improvident Montagnais huddled in their birch tepees about the fort, raving
for food, and perishing with disease; while of the twenty-eight Frenchmen there were only eight
despairing survivors to greet the returning spring. On the 5th of June, however, Pontgravé's
ship again arrived at Quebec, to the joy of Champlain and his stricken companions.

Summer warmed their enthusiasm anew, and the dauntless explorer now thought only of pressing
on westward to Cathay. To further this project, he consented to ally himself with the Hurons
and Algonquins in an attack upon the Iroquois, and for several days their dusky allies swarmed
in and around Quebec. At length, towards the end of June, the war-party set out. Champlain
embarked in a shallop with eleven men, armed with arquebuse and match-lock, sword and breast-plate;
and the painted, shrilling foresters swarmed up the river in their bark canoes. From the St.
Lawrence they passed into the Iroquois River.[4]

After destroying one of the Mohawk towns, the victorious raiders returned to Quebec. Champlain,
"the man with the iron breast," had cemented his alliance with the northern tribes, and from
this time forth Quebec became the great emporium for the fur trade of the continent.

[Footnote 4: Now the Richelieu.]

In 1613 Champlain's enthusiasm was kindled by the tale of one Nicolas de Vignau, who claimed
to have traced the Ottawa to its source in a great lake, which also emptied itself through
a northern river into an unknown sea. Champlain set off with Vignau and three others to establish
this new route to Cathay. In two birch canoes they proceeded up the St. Lawrence and into the
rushing Ottawa. Portaging around the seething Chaudière, they came at length to Allumette Island.
Here the old Algonquin chief, Tessouat, received them; but he presently convinced Champlain
that there was no such northern route as he looked to find. Whereupon Vignau confessed his
imposture, and Champlain generously let him go unpunished.

Meanwhile, De Monts had wearied of his New World enterprise, and to secure the interests of
his colony Champlain was constrained to make annual voyages to France. In 1612 he found a protector
in the Comte de Soissons, who appointed the discoverer his deputy in New France. Soissons,
however, died in the same year; but fortunately the Prince of Condé, by whom he was succeeded,
was also well-disposed, and retained Champlain as his lieutenant.

