I Great Britain And Ireland

Part One

GENERAL INTRODUCTION

A two-fold purpose has been kept in view during the preparation of these volumes--on the one-hand,
to refresh the memories and, if possible, to enlarge the knowledge, of readers who have already
visited Europe; on the other, to provide something in the nature of a substitute for those
who have not yet done so, and to inspire them with new and stronger ambitions to make the trip.

Readers of the first class will perhaps find matter here which is new to them--at least some
of it; and in any case should not regret an opportunity again to see standard descriptions
of world-famed scenes and historic monuments. Of the other class, it may be said that, in any
profitable trip to Europe, an indispensable thing is to go there possest of a large stock of
historical knowledge, not to say with some distinct understanding of the profound significance
to our American civilization, past, present, and future, of the things to be seen there. As
has so often been said, one finds in Europe what one takes there--that is, we recognize there
exactly those things which we have learned to understand at home. Without an equipment of this
kind, the trip will mean little more than a sea-voyage, good or bad, a few rides on railroads
somewhat different from our own, meals and beds in hotels not quite like ours, and opportunities
to shop in places where a few real novelties may be found if one searches for them long enough.

No sooner has an American tourist found himself on board a ship, bound for Europe, than he
is conscious of a social system quite unlike the one in which he was born and reared. On French
ships he may well think himself already in France. The manners of sailors, no less than those
of officers, proclaim it, the furniture proclaims it, and so do woodwork, wall decorations,
the dinner gong (which seems to have come out of a chateau in old Touraine), and the free wine
at every meal. The same is quite as true of ships bound for English and German ports; on these
are splendid order, sober taste, efficiency in servants, and calls for dinner that start reminiscences
of hunting horns.

The order and system impress one everywhere on these ships. Things are all in their proper
place, employees are at their proper posts, doing their work, or alert to do it when the need
comes. Here the utmost quiet prevails. Each part of the great organization is so well adjusted
to other parts, that the system operates noiselessly, without confusion, and with never a failure
of cooperation at any point. So long as the voyage lasts, impressions of a perfected system
drive themselves into one's consciousness.

After one goes ashore, and as long as he remains in Europe, that well ordered state will impress,
delight and comfort him. Possibly he will contrast it with his own country's more hurried,
less firmly controlled ways, but once he reflects on causes, he will perceive that the ways
of Europe are products of a civilization long since settled, and already ancient, while the
hurried and more thoughtless methods at home are concomitants of a civilization still too young,
too ambitious, and too successful to bear the curbs and restraints which make good manners
and good order possible among all classes. It is from fine examples in these social matters,
no less than from visits to historic places, that the observing and thoughtful tourist derives
benefit from a European tour.

The literature of travel in Europe makes in itself a considerable library. Those who have contributed
to it are, in literary quality, of many kinds and various degrees of excellence. It is not
now so true as it once was that our best writers write for the benefit of tourists. If they
do, it is to compile guide-books and describe automobile trips. In any search for adequate
descriptions of scenes and places, we can not long depend on present-day writers, but must
hark back to those of the last century. There we shall find Washington Irving's pen busily
at work for us, and the pens of others, who make up a noble company. The writings of these
are still fresh and they fit our purposes as no others do.

Fortunately for us, the things in Europe that really count for the cultivated traveler do not
change with the passing of years or centuries. The experience which Goethe had in visiting
the crater of Vesuvius in 1787 is just about such as an American from Kansas City, or Cripple
Creek, would have in 1914. In the old Papal Palace of Avignon, Dickens, seventy years ago,
saw essentially the same things that a keen-eyed American tourist of today would see. When
Irving, more than a century ago, made his famous pilgrimage to Westminster Abbey, he saw about
everything that a pilgrim from Oklahoma would see today.

It is believed that these volumes, alike in their form and contents, present a mass of selected
literature such as has not been before offered to readers at one time and in one place.

FRANCIS W. HALSEY.

INTRODUCTION TO VOLS. I AND II

Great Britain and Ireland

The tourist who has embarked for the British Isles lands usually at Liverpool, Fishguard, or
Plymouth, whence a special steamer-train takes him in a few hours to London. In landing at
Plymouth, he has passed, outside the harbor, Eddystone, most famous of lighthouses, and has
seen waters in which Drake overthrew the Armada of Philip II.

Once the tourist leaves the ship he is conscious of a new environment. Aboard the tender (if
there be one) he will feel this, in the custom house formalities, when riding on the steamer-train,
on stepping to the station platform at his destination, when riding in the tidy taxicab, at
the door and in the office of his hotel, in his well-ordered bedroom, and at his initial meal.
First of all, he will appreciate the tranquility, the unobtrusiveness, the complete efficiency,
with which service is rendered him by those employed to render it.

When Lord Nelson, before beginning the battle of Trafalgar, said to his officers and sailors
that England expected "every man to do his duty," the remark was merely one of friendly encouragement
and sympathy, rather than of stern discipline, because every man on board that fleet of ships
already expected to do his duty. Life in England is a school in which doing one's duty becomes
a fundamental condition of staying "in the game." Not alone sailors and soldiers know this,
and adjust their lives to it, but all classes of public and domestic servants--indeed, all
men are subject to it, whether servants or barristers, lawmakers or kings.

Emerging from his hotel for a walk in the street, the tourist, even tho his visit be not the
first, will note the ancient look of things. Here are buildings that have survived for two,
or even five, hundred years, and yet they are still found fit for the purposes to which they
are put. Few buildings are tall, the "skyscraper" being undiscoverable. On great and crowded
thoroughfares one may find buildings in plenty that have only two, or at most three, stories,
and their windows small, with panes of glass scarcely more than eight by ten. The great wall
mass and dome of St. Paul's, the roof and towers of Westminster Abbey, unlike the lone spire
of old Trinity in New York, still rise above all the buildings around them as far as the eye
can reach, just about as they did in the days of Sir Christopher Wren.

Leaving a great thoroughfare for a side street, a stone's throw may bring one to a friend's
office, in one of those little squares so common in the older parts of London. How ancient
all things here may seem to him, the very street doorway an antiquity, and so the fireplace
within, the hinges and handles of the doors. From some upper rear window he may look out on
an extension roof of solid lead, that has survived, sound and good, after the storms of several
generations, and beyond may look into an ancient burial ground, or down upon the grass-plots
and ample walks around a church (perchance the Temple Church), and again may see below him
the tomb of Oliver Goldsmith.

In America we look for antiquities to Boston, with her Long Wharf, or Faneuil Hall; to New
York, with her Fraunccs Tavern and Van Cortlandt Manor House; to Jamestown with her lone, crumbling
church tower; to the Pacific coast with her Franciscan mission houses; to St. Augustine with
her Spanish gates; but all these are young and blushing things compared with the historic places
of the British Isles. None of them, save one, is of greater age than a century and a half.
Even the exception (St. Augustine) is a child in arms compared with Westminster Hall, the Tower
of London, St. Martin's of Canterbury, the ruined abbey of Glastonbury, the remains of churches
on the island of Iona, or the oldest ruins found in Ireland.

What to an American is ancient history, to an Englishman is an affair of scarcely more than
yesterday. As Goldwin Smith has said, the Revolution of 1776 is to an American what the Norman
conquest is to an Englishman--the event on which to found a claim of ancestral distinction.
More than seven hundred years divide these two events. With the Revolution, our history as
a nation began; before that we were a group of colonies, each a part of the British Empire.
We fought single-handed with Indians, it is true, and we cooperated with the mother country
in wresting the continent from the French, but all this history, in a technical sense, is English
history rather than the history of the United States.

Our Revolution occurred in the reign of the Third George; back of it runs a line of other Hanoverian
kings, of Stuart kings, of Tudor kings, of Plantagenet kings, of Norman kings, of Saxon kings,
of Roman governors, of Briton kings and queens, of Scottish tribal heads and kings, of ancient
Irish kings. Long before Caesar landed in Kent, inhabitants of England had erected forts, constructed
war chariots, and reared temples of worship, of which a notable example still survives on Salisbury
Plain. So had the Picts and Scots of Caledonia reared strongholds and used war chariots, and
so had Celts erected temples of worship in Ireland, and Phoenicians had mined tin in Cornwall.
When Cavaliers were founding a commonwealth at Jamestown and the Puritans one on Massachusetts
Bay, the British Isles were six hundred years away from the Norman conquest, the Reformation
of the English church had been effected, Chaucer had written his "Tales," Bacon his "Essays,"
and Shakespeare all but a few of his "Plays."

Of the many races to whom belong these storied annals--Briton, Pict, Scot, Saxon, Dane, Celt,
Norman--we of America, whose ancestral lines run back to those islands, are the far-descended
children, heirs actual. Our history, as a civilized people, began not in Independence Hall,
Philadelphia, not at Jamestown, not at Plymouth Rock, but there in the northeastern Atlantic,
in lands now acknowledging the sway of the Parliament of Westminster, and where, as with us,
the speech of all is English. Not alone do we share that speech with them, but that matchless
literature, also English, and more than that, racial customs, laws and manners, of which many
are as old as the Norman conquest, while others, for aught we know, are survivals from an age
when human sacrifices were made around the monoliths of Stonehenge.

It is not in lands such as these that any real American can ever feel himself a stranger. There
lies for so many of us the ancestral home--in that "land of just and of old renown," that "royal
throne of kings," that "precious stone set in the silver sea," that "dear, dear land, dear
for her reputation through the world."

F.W.H.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND--PART ONE

GENERAL INTRODUCTION AND INTRODUCTION TO VOLS. I AND II--By the Editor

I--LONDON

A GENERAL SKETCH--By Goldwin Smith WESTMINSTER ABBEY--By Washington Irving THE HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT--By
Nathaniel Hawthorne ST. PAUL'S--By Augustus J.C. Hare THE BRITISH MUSEUM AND THE CRYSTAL PALACE--By
H.A. Taine THE TEMPLE'S GALLERY OF GHOSTS PROM DICKENS--By J.R.G. Hassard THE TEMPLE CHURCH--By
Augustus J.C. Hare LAMBETH CHURCH AND PALACE--By Augustus J.C. Hare DICKENS'S LIMEHOUSE HOLE--By
J.E.G. Hassard WHITEHALL--By Augustus J. C. Hare THE TOWER--By W. Hepworth Dixon ST. JAMES'S
PALACE--By Augustus J. C. Hare LITERARY SHRINES OF LONDON--By William Winter

II--CATHEDRALS AND ABBEYS

CANTERBURY--By the Editor OLD YORK--By William Winter YORK AND LINCOLN COMPARED--By Edward
A. Freeman DURHAM--By Nathaniel Hawthorne ELY--By James M. Hoppin SALISBURY--By Nathaniel Hawthorne
EXETER--By Anna Bowman Dodd LICHFIELD--By Nathaniel Hawthorne WINCHESTER--By William Howitt
WELLS--By James M, Hoppin BURY ST. EDMUNDS--By H. Claiborne Dixon GLASTONBURY--By H. Claiborne
Dixon TINTERN--By H. Claiborne Dixon

III--CASTLES AND STATELY HOMES

LIVING IN GREAT HOUSES--By Richard Grant White WINDSOR--By Harriet Beecher Stowe BLENHEIM--By
the Duke of Marlborough WARWICK--By Harriet Beecher Stowe KENILWORTH--By Sir Walter Scott ALNWICK--By
William Howitt HAMPTON COURT--By William Howitt CHATSWORTH AND HADDON HALL--By Elihu Burritt
EATON HALL--By Nathaniel Hawthorne HOLLAND HOUSE--By William Howitt ARUNDEL--By Anna Bowman
Dodd PENSHURST--By William Howitt

IV--ENGLISH LITERARY SHRINES

STRATFORD-ON-AVON--By Washington Irving NEWSTEAD ABBEY--By Nathaniel Hawthorne HUCKNALL-TORKARD
CHURCH (Byron's Grave)--By William Winter DR. JOHNSON'S BIRTHPLACE--By Nathaniel Hawthorne

(English Literary Shrines continued in Vol. II)

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

VOLUME I

FRONTISPIECE
   TRAFALGAR SQUARE, LONDON

PRECEDING PAGE I
   WESTMINSTER ABBEY
   RIVER FRONT OF THE HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT
   ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL
   INTERIOR OF ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL
   CHAPEL OF EDWARD THE CONFESSOR, WESTMINSTER ABBEY
   THE TOWER OF LONDON
   CANTERBURY CATHEDRAL
   TINTERN ABBEY
   DRYEURGH ABBEY
   WINDSOR CASTLE

FOLLOWING PAGE 95
   THE ALBERT MEMORIAL CHAPEL, WINDSOR
   THE THRONE ROOM, WINDSOR CASTLE
   POETS' CORNER, WESTMINSTER ABBEY
   THE GREAT HALL AT PENSHURST
   THE ENTRANCE HALL OF BLENHEIM PALACE
   GUY'S TOWER AND THE CLOCK TOWER, WARWICK CASTLE
   WARWICK CASTLE
   THE BEAUCHAMP CHAPEL, WARWICK
   THE RUINS OF KENILWORTH CASTLE CHATSWORTH
   ALNWICK CASTLE
   HOLLAND HOUSE
   EATON HALL

I

LONDON

A GENERAL SKETCH [Footnote: From articles written for the Toronto "Week." Afterward (1888)
issued by The Macmillan Company in the volume entitled "The Trip to England."]

BY GOLDWIN SMITH

The huge city perhaps never imprest the imagination more than when approaching it by night
on the top of a coach you saw its numberless lights flaring, as Tennyson says, "like a dreary
dawn." The most impressive approach is now by the river through the infinitude of docks, quays,
and shipping. London is not a city, but a province of brick and stone. Hardly even from the
top of St. Paul's or of the Monument can anything like a view of the city as a whole be obtained.

It is indispensable, however, to make one or the other of these ascents when a clear day can
be found, not so much because the view is fine, as because you will get a sensation of vastness
and multitude not easily to be forgotten. There is, or was not long ago, a point on the ridge
which connects Hampstead with Highgate from which, as you looked over London to the Surrey
Hills beyond, the modern Babylon presented something like the aspect of a city. The ancient
Babylon may have vied with London in circumference, but the greater part of its area was occupied
by open spaces; the modern Babylon is a dense mass of humanity....

The Empire and the commercial relations of England draw representatives of trading committees
or subject races from all parts of the globe, and the faces and costumes of the Hindu, the
Parsee, the Lascar and the ubiquitous Chinaman mingle in the motley crowd with the merchants
of Europe and America. The streets of London are, in this respect, to the modern what the great
Palace of Tyre must have been to the ancient world. But pile Carthage on Tyre, Venice on Carthage,
Amsterdam on Venice, and you will not make the equal, or anything near the equal, of London.

Here is the great mart of the world, to which the best and richest products are brought from
every land and clime, so that if you have put money in your purse you may command every object
of utility or fancy which grows or is made anywhere without going beyond the circuit of the
great cosmopolitan city. Parisian, German, Russian, Hindu, Japanese, Chinese industry is as
much at your service here, if you have the all-compelling talisman in your pocket, as in Paris,
Berlin, St. Petersburg, Benares, Yokohama, or Peking. That London is the great distributing
center of the world is shown by the fleets of the carrying trade of which the countless masts
rise along her wharves and in her docks. She is also the bank of the world. But we are reminded
of the vicissitudes of commerce and the precarious tenure by which its empire is held when
we consider that the bank of the world in the middle of the last century was Amsterdam.

The first and perhaps the greatest marvel of London is the commissariat. How can the five millions
be regularly supplied with food, and everything needful to life, even with such things as milk
and those kinds of fruits which can hardly be left beyond a day? Here again we see reason for
excepting to the sweeping jeremiads of cynicism, and concluding that tho there may be fraud
and scamping in the industrial world, genuine production, faithful service, disciplined energy,
and skill in organization, can not wholly have departed from the earth. London is not only
well fed, but well supplied with water and well drained. Vast and densely peopled as it is,
it is a healthy city. Yet the limit of practical extension seems to be nearly reached. It becomes
a question how the increasing multitude shall be supplied not only with food and water, but
with air.

The East of London, which is the old city, is, as all know, the business quarter. Let the worshiper
of Mammon when he sets foot in Lombard Street adore his divinity, of all whose temples this
is the richest and the most famous. Note the throng incessantly threading those narrow and
tortuous streets. Nowhere are the faces so eager or the steps so hurried, except perhaps in
the business quarter of New York. Commerce has still its center here; but the old social and
civic life of the city has fled. What once were the dwellings of the merchants of London are
now vast collections of offices. The merchants dwell in the mansions of the West End, their
clerks in villas and boxes without number, to which when their offices close they are taken
by the suburban railways. On Sunday a more than Sabbath stillness reigns in those streets,
while in the churches, the monuments of Wren's architectural genius which in Wren's day were
so crowded, the clergyman sleepily performs the service to a congregation which you may count
upon your fingers.

It is worth while to visit the city on a Sunday. Here and there, in a back street, may still
be seen what was once the mansion of a merchant prince, ample and stately, with the rooms which
in former days displayed the pride of commercial wealth and resounded with the festivities
of the olden time; now the sound of the pen alone is heard. These and other relics of former
days are fast disappearing before the march of improvement, which is driving straight new streets
through the antique labyrinth. Some of the old thoroughfares as well as the old names remain.
There is Cheapside, along which, through the changeful ages, so varied a procession of history
has swept. There is Fleet Street, close to which, in Bolt Court, Johnson lived, and which he
preferred, or affected to prefer, to the finest scenes of nature. Temple Bar, once grimly garnished
with the heads of traitors, has been numbered with the things of the past, after furnishing
Mr. Bright, by the manner in which the omnibuses were jammed in it, with a vivid simile for
a legislative deadlock....

Society has migrated to the Westward, leaving far behind the ancient abodes of aristocracy,
the Strand, where once stood a long line of patrician dwellings, Great Queen Street, where
Shaftesbury's house may still be seen; Lincoln's Inn Fields, where, in the time of George II,
the Duke of Newcastle held his levee of office-seekers, and Russell Square, now reduced to
a sort of dowager gentility. Hereditary mansions, too ancient and magnificent to be deserted,
such as Norfolk House, Spencer House and Lansdowne House, stayed the westward course of aristocracy
at St. James's Square and Street, Piccadilly, and Mayfair; but the general tide of fashion
has swept far beyond.

In that vast realm of wealth and leisure, the West End of London, the eye is not satisfied
with seeing, neither the ear with hearing. There is not, nor has there ever been, anything
like it in the world. Notes of admiration might be accumulated to any extent without aiding
the impression. In every direction the visitor may walk till he is weary through streets and
squares of houses, all evidently the abodes of wealth, some of them veritable palaces. The
parks are thronged, the streets are blocked with handsome equipages, filled with the rich and
gay. Shops blaze with costly wares, and abound with everything that can minister to luxury.

On a fine bright day of May or early June, and days of May or early June are often as bright
in London as anywhere, the Park is probably the greatest display of wealth and of the pride
of wealth in the world. The contrast with the slums of the East End, no doubt, is striking,
and we can not wonder if the soul of the East End is sometimes filled with bitterness at the
sight. A social Jeremiah might be moved to holy wrath by the glittering scene. The seer, however,
might be reminded that not all the owners of those carriages are the children of idleness,
living by the sweat of another man's brow; many of them are professional men or chiefs of industry,
working as hard with their brains as any mechanic works with his hands, and indispensable ministers
of the highest civilization. The number and splendor of the equipages are thought to have been
somewhat diminished of late by the reduction of rents.

The architecture of the West End of London is for the most part drearily monotonous; its forms
have too plainly been determined by the builder, not by the artist, tho since the restoration
of art, varieties of style have been introduced, and individual beauty has been more cultivated.
It is the boundless expanse of opulence, street after street, square after square, that most
impresses the beholder, and makes him wonder from what miraculous horn of plenty such a tide
of riches can have been poured.

A beautiful city London can not be called. In beauty it is no match for Paris. The smoke, which
not only blackens but corrodes, is fatal to the architecture as well as to the atmosphere.
Moreover, the fine buildings, which if brought together would form a magnificent assemblage,
are scattered over the immense city, and some of them are ruined by their surroundings. There
is a fine group at Westminster, and the view from the steps under the Duke of York's column
across St. James's Park is beautiful. But even at Westminster meanness jostles splendor, and
the picture is marred by Mr. Hankey's huge tower of Babel rising near. London has had no edile
like Haussmann.

The Embankment on the one side of the Thames is noble in itself, but you look across from it
at the hideous and dirty wharves of Southwark. Nothing is more charming than a fine water street;
and this water street might be very fine were it not marred by the projection of a huge railway
shed. The new Courts of Law, a magnificent, tho it is said inconvenient, pile, instead of being
placed on the Embankment or in some large open space, are choked up and lost in rookeries.
London, we must repeat, has had no edile. Perhaps the finest view is that from a steamboat
on the river, embracing the Houses of Parliament, Somerset House, and the Temple, with St.
Paul's rising above the whole.

WESTMINSTER ABBEY [Footnote: From "The Sketch Book." Names, inscriptions, trophies, had all
become confounded in my recollection, tho I had scarcely taken my foot from off the threshold.

THE HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT [Footnote: From "English Note Books." I should take the woolsack to
be not a very comfortable seat, tho I suppose it was originally designed to be the most comfortable
one that could be contrived.

ST. PAUL'S [Footnote: From "Walks in London."]

BY AUGUSTUS J.C. HARE

It will be admitted that, tho in general effect there is nothing in the same style of architecture
which exceeds the exterior of St. Paul's, it has not a single detail deserving of attention,
except the Phenix over the south portico, which was executed by Cibber, and commemorates the
curious fact narrated in the "Parentalia," that the very first stone which Sir Christopher
Wren directed a mason to bring from the rubbish of the old church to serve as a mark for the
center of the dome in his plans was inscribed with the single word Resurgam--I shall rise again.
The other ornaments and statues are chiefly by Bird, a most inferior sculptor. Those who find
greater faults must, however, remember that St. Paul's, as it now stands, is not according
to the first design of Wren, the rejection of which cost him bitter tears. Even in his after
work he met with so many rubs and ruffles, and was so insufficiently paid, that the Duchess
of Marlborough, said, in allusion to his scaffold labors, "He is dragged up and down in a basket
two or three times in a week for an insignificant £200 a year."...

The interior of St. Paul's is not without a grandeur of its own, but in detail it is bare,
cold, and uninteresting, tho Wren intended to have lined the dome with mosaics, and to have
placed a grand baldacchino in the choir. Tho a comparison with St. Peter's inevitably forces
itself upon those who are familiar with the great Roman basilica, there can scarcely be a greater
contrast than between the two buildings. There, all is blazing with precious marbles; here,
there is no color except from the poor glass of the eastern windows, or where a tattered banner
waves above a hero's monument. In the blue depths of the misty dome the London fog loves to
linger, and hides the remains of some feeble frescoes by Thornhill, Hogarth's father-in-law.
In St. Paul's, as in St. Peter's, the statues on the monuments destroy the natural proportion
of the arches by their monstrous size, but they have seldom any beauty or grace to excuse them.
The week-day services are thinly attended, and, from the nave, it seems as if the knot of worshipers
near the choir were lost in the immensity, and the peals of the organ and the voices of the
choristers were vibrating through an arcaded solitude....

The most interesting portion of the church is the Crypt, where, at the eastern extremity, are
gathered nearly all the remains of the tombs which were saved from the old St. Paul's. Here
repose the head and half the body of Sir Nicholas Bacon (1579), Lord Keeper of the Great Seal
in the reign of Elizabeth, and father of Francis, Lord Bacon. Other fragments represent William
Cokain, 1626; William Hewit, 1597; and John Wolley and his wife, 1595. There are tablets to
"Sir Simon Baskerville the rich," physician to James I. and Charles I., 1641; and to Brian,
Bishop of Chester, 1661. The tomb of John Martin, bookseller, and his wife, 1680, was probably
the first monument erected in the crypt of new St. Paul's....

In the Crypt, not far from the old St. Paul's tombs, the revered Dean Milman, the great historian
of the church (best known, perhaps, by his "History of the Jews," his "History of Latin Christianity,"
and his contributions to "Heber's Hymns"), is now buried under a simple tomb ornamented with
a raised cross. In a recess on the south is the slab of Sir Christopher Wren, and near him,
in other chapels, Robert Mylne, the architect of old Blackfriars Bridge, and John Rennie, the
architect of Waterloo Bridge. Beneath the pavement lies Sir Joshua Reynolds (1742), who had
an almost royal funeral in St. Paul's, dukes and marquises contending for the honor of being
his pallbearers. Around him are buried his disciples and followers--Lawrence (1830), Barry
(1806), Opie (1807), West (1820), Fuseli (1825); but the most remarkable grave is that of William
Maillord Turner, whose dying request was that he might be buried as near as possible to Sir Joshua.

Where the heavy pillars and arches gather thick beneath the dome, in spite of his memorable
words at the battle of the Nile--"Victory or Westminster Abbey"--is the grave of Lord Nelson.
Followed to the grave by the seven sons of his sovereign, he was buried here in 1806, when
Dean Milman, who was present, "heard, or seemed to hear, the low wail of the sailors who encircled
the remains of their admiral." They tore to pieces the largest of the flags of the "Victory,"
which waved above his grave; the rest were buried with his coffin.

The sarcophagus of Nelson was designed and executed for Cardinal Wolsey by the famous Torregiano,
and was intended to contain the body of Henry VIII. in the tomb-house at Windsor. It encloses
the coffin made from the mast of the ship "L'Orient," which was presented to Nelson after the
battle of the Nile by Ben Hallowell, captain of the "Swiftsure," that, when he was tired of
life, he might "be buried in one of his own trophies." On either side of Nelson repose the
minor heroes of Trafalgar, Collingwood (1810) and Lord Northesk; Picton also lies near him,
but outside the surrounding arches.

A second huge sarcophagus of porphyry resting on lions is the tomb where Arthur Wellesley,
Duke of Wellington, was laid in 1852, in the presence of 15,000 spectators, Dean Milman, who
had been present at Nelson's funeral, then reading the services. Beyond the tomb of Nelson,
in a ghastly ghost-befitting chamber hung with the velvet which surrounded his lying in state
at Chelsea, and on which, by the flickering torchlight, we see emblazoned the many Orders presented
to him by foreign sovereigns, is the funeral car of Wellington, modeled and constructed in
six weeks, at an expense of £13,000, from guns taken in his campaigns.

In the southwest pier of the dome a staircase ascends by 616 steps to the highest point of
the cathedral. No feeble person should attempt the fatigue, and, except to architects, the
undertaking is scarcely worth while. An easy ascent leads to the immense passages of the triforium,
in which, opening from the gallery above the south aisle, is the Library, founded by Bishop
Compton, who crowned William and Mary, Archbishop Seeker refusing to do so. It contains the
bishop's portrait and some carving by Gibbons.

At the corner of the gallery, on the left, a very narrow stair leads to the Clock, of enormous
size, with a pendulum 16 feet long, constructed by Langley Bradley in 1708. Ever since, the
oaken seats behind it have been occupied by a changing crowd, waiting with anxious curiosity
to see the hammer strike its bell, and tremulously hoping to tremble at the vibration.

Returning, another long ascent leads to the Whispering Gallery, below the windows of the cupola,
where visitors are requested to sit down upon a matted seat that they may be shown how a low
whisper uttered against the wall can be distinctly heard from the other side of the dome. Hence
we reach the Stone Gallery, outside the base of the dome, whence we may ascend to the Golden
Gallery at its summit. This last ascent is interesting, as being between the outer and inner
domes, and showing how completely different in construction one is from the other. The view
from the gallery is vast, but generally, beyond a certain distance, it is shrouded in smoke.
Sometimes, one stands aloft in a clear atmosphere, while beneath the fog rolls like a sea,
through which the steeples and towers are just visible "like the masts of stranded vessels."
Hence one may study the anatomy of the fifty-four towers which Wren was obliged to build after
the Fire in a space of time which would only have properly sufficed for the construction of
four. The same characteristics, more and more painfully diluted, but always slightly varied,
occur in each. Bow Church, St. Magnus, St. Bride, and St. Vedast are the best.

The Great Bell of St. Paul's (of 1716), which hangs in the south tower, bears the inscription,
"Richard Phelps made me, 1716."

THE BRITISH MUSEUM AND THE CRYSTAL PALACE [Footnote: From "Notes on England." By arrangement
with the publishers, Henry Holt & Co.]

BY HIPPOLYTE ADOLPHE TAINE

I have letters of introduction and a ticket of admission to the British Museum. About the Grecian
marbles, the original Italian drawings, about the National Gallery, the Hampton Court galleries,
the pictures at Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle, and the private collections, I shall
say nothing. Still, what marvels and what historical tokens are all these things, five or six
specimens of high civilization manifested in a perfect art, all differing greatly from that
which I now examine, and so well adapted for bringing into relief the good and the evil. To
do that would fill a volume by itself.

The Museum library contains six hundred thousand volumes; the reading-room is vast, circular
in form, and covered with a cupola, so that no one is far from the central office, and no one
has the light in his eyes. All the lower stage of shelves is filled with works of reference--dictionaries,
collections of biographies, classics of all sorts--which can be consulted on the spot, and
are excellently arranged. Moreover, a small plan placed on each table indicates where they
are placed and the order in which they stand.

Each seat is isolated; there is nothing in front but the woodwork of the desk, so that no one
is annoyed by the presence of his neighbor. The seats and the tables are covered with leather,
and are very clean; there are two pens to each desk, the one being steel, the other a quill
pen; there is also a small stand at the side, upon which a second volume, or the volume from
which the extracts are being copied may be placed. To procure a book, the title is written
on a form, which is handed to the central office. The attendant brings the book to you himself,
and does so without delay. I have made trial of this, even in the case of works seldom asked
for. The holder of the book is responsible till he has received back the form filled up when
he applied for it. For ladies a place is reserved, which is a delicate piece of attention.

What a contrast if we compare this with our great library at the Louvre, with its long room,
with half of the readers dazzled by the light in their eyes, the readers being packed together
at a common table, the titles of the books being called out in loud tones, the long time spent
in waiting at the central office. The French Library has been reformed according to the English
model, yet without being rendered as convenient. Nevertheless, ours is the more liberally conducted;
its doors are opened to all comers. Here one must be a "respecable" person; no one is admitted
unless vouched for by two householders. This is said to be enough; as it is, those gain admission
who are worse than shabby--men in working clothes, and some without shoes--they have been introduced
by clergymen. The grant for buying new books is seven or eight times larger than ours. When
shall we learn to spend our money in a sensible way?

In other matters they are not so successful, such as the Crystal Palace at Sydenham, for instance,
which formed the building for the Great Exhibition, and which is now a sort of museum of curiosities.
It is gigantic, like London itself, and like so many things in London, but how can I portray
the gigantic? All the ordinary sensations produced by size are intensified several times here.
It is two miles in circumference and has three stories of prodigious height; it would easily
hold five or six buildings like our Palace of Industry, and it is of glass; it consists, first,
of an immense rectangular structure rising toward the center in a semicircle like a hothouse,
and flanked by two Chinese towers; then, on either side, long buildings descend at right angles,
enclosing the garden with its fountains, statues, summer houses, strips of turf, groups of
large trees, exotic plants, and beds of flowers. The acres of glass sparkle in the sunlight;
at the horizon an undulating line of green eminences is bathed in the luminous vapor which
softens all colors and spreads an expression of tender beauty over an entire landscape.

Always the same English method of decoration--on the one side a park and natural embellishments,
which it must be granted, are beautiful and adapted to the climate; on the other, the building,
which is a monstrous jumble, wanting in style, and bearing witness not to taste, but to English
power. The interior consists of a museum of antiquities, composed of plaster facsimiles of
all the Grecian and Roman statues scattered over Europe; of a museum of the Middle Ages; of
a Revival museum; of an Egyptian museum; of a Nineveh museum; of an Indian museum; of a reproduction
of a Pompeiian house; of a reproduction of the Alhambra. The ornaments of the Alhambra have
been molded, and these molds are preserved in an adjoining room as proofs of authenticity.
In order to omit nothing, copies have been made of the most notable Italian paintings, and
these are daubs worthy of a country fair.

There is a huge tropical hothouse, wherein are fountains, swimming turtles, large aquatic plants
in flower, the Sphinx and Egyptian statues sixty feet high, specimens of colossal or rare trees,
among others the bark of a Sequoia California 450 feet in height and measuring 116 feet in
circumference. The bark is arranged and fastened to an inner framework in such a manner as
to give an idea of the tree itself. There is a circular concert room, with tiers of benches
as in a Colosseum. Lastly, in the gardens are to be seen life-size reproductions of antediluvian
monsters, megatheriums, dinotheriums, and others. In these gardens Blondin does his tricks
at the height of a hundred feet.

I pass over half the things; but does not this conglomeration of odds and ends carry back one's
thoughts to the Rome of Caesar and the Antonines? At that period also pleasure-palaces were
erected for the sovereign people; circuses, theaters, baths wherein were collected statues,
paintings, animals, musicians, acrobats, all the treasures and all the oddities of the world;
pantheons of opulence and curiosity; genuine bazaars where the liking for what was novel, heterogeneous,
and fantastic ousted the feeling of appreciation for simple beauty.

In truth, Rome enriched herself with these things by conquest, England by industry. Thus it
is that at Rome the paintings, the statues, were stolen originals, and the monsters, whether
rhinoceroses or lions, were perfectly alive and tore human beings to pieces; whereas here the
statues are made of plaster and the monsters of goldbeater's skin. The spectacle is one of
second class, but of the same kind. A Greek would not have regarded it with satisfaction; he
would have considered it appropriate to powerful barbarians, who, trying to become refined,
had utterly failed.

THE TEMPLE'S GALLERY OF GHOSTS FROM DICKENS [Footnote: From "A Pickwickian Pilgrimage." The
persons mentioned in Mr. Hassard's Pilgrimage to the Temple and its neighborhood will be recognized
as characters In the novels of Charles Dickens. By arrangement with, and by permission of,
the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co. Copyright, 1881.]

BY JOHN R.G. HASSARD

The Temple is crowded with the ghosts of fiction. Here were the neglected chambers, lumbered
with heaps and parcels of books, where Tom Pinch was set to work by Mr. Fips, and where old
Martin Chuzzlewit revealed himself in due time and knocked Mr. Pecksniff into a corner. Here
Mr. Mortimer Lightwood's dismal office-boy leaned out of a dismal window overlooking the dismal
churchyard; and here Mortimer and Eugene were visited by Mr. Boffin offering a large reward
for the conviction of the murderer of John Harmon; by that honest water-side character, Rogue
Riderhood, anxious to earn "a pot o' money" in the sweat of his brow by swearing away the life
of Gaffer Hexam; by Bradley Headstone and Charley Hexam; by "Mr. Dolls," negotiating for "three-penn'orths
of rum."

It was in Garden Court of The Temple, in the house nearest the river, that Pip, holding his
lamp over the stairs one stormy night, saw the returned convict climbing up to his rooms to
disclose the mystery of his Great Expectations. Close by the gateway from The Temple into Fleet
Street, and adjoining the site of Temple Bar, is Child's ancient banking house, the original
of Tellson's Bank in a "Tale of Two Cities." The demolition of Temple Bar made necessary some
alterations in the bank, too; and when I was last there the front of the old building which
so long defied time and change was boarded up.

Chancery Lane, opposite The Temple, running from Fleet Street to Holborn--a distance only a
little greater than that between the Fifth and Sixth Avenues in New York--is the principal
pathway through the "perplexed and troublous valley of the shadow of the law." At either end
of it there are fresh green spots; but the lane itself is wholly given up to legal dust and
darkness. Facing it, on the farther side of Holborn, in a position corresponding with that
of The Temple at the Fleet Street extremity, is Gray's Inn, especially attractive to me on
account of the long grassy enclosure within its innermost court, so smooth and bright and well-kept
that I always stopt to gaze longingly at it through the railed barrier which shuts strangers
out--as if here were a tennis lawn reserved for the exclusive vise of frisky barristers.

At No. 2 Holborn Court, in Gray's Inn, David Copperfield, on his return from abroad near the
end of the story, found the rooms of that rising young lawyer, Mr. Thomas Traddles. There was
a great scuttling and scampering when David knocked at the door; for Traddles was at that moment
playing puss-in-the-corner with Sophy and "the girls." Thavies' Inn, on the other side of Holborn,
a little farther east, is no longer enclosed; it is only a little fragment of shabby street
which starts, with mouth wide open, to run out of Holborn Circus, and stops short, after a
few reds, without having got anywhere. The faded houses look as if they belonged to East Broadway;
and in one of them lived Mrs. Jellyby....

The buildings within the large enclosure of Lincoln's Inn are a strange mixture of aged dulness
and new splendor; but the old houses and the old court-rooms seem to be without exception dark,
stuffy, and inconvenient. Here were the chambers of Kenge and Carboy, and the dirty and disorderly
offices of Sergeant Snubbin, counsel for the defendant in the suit of Bardell against Pickwick.
Here the Lord Chancellor sat, in the heart of the fog, to hear the case of Jarndyce and Jarndyce.

At the back of the Inn, in the shabby-genteel square called Lincoln's Inn Fields, Mr. Tulkinghorn
was murdered in his rusty apartment. The story of "Bleak House" revolves about Lincoln's Inn.
The whole neighborhood has an air of mystery and a scent like a stationer's shop. Always I
found Mr. Guppy there, with a necktie much too smart for the rest of his clothes, and a bundle
of documents tied with red tape. Jobling and young Smallweed sometimes stopt to talk with him.
The doors of the crowded court-rooms opened now and then, and gentlemen in gowns and horsehair
wigs came out to speak with clients who waited under the arches....

The climax of "Bleak House" is the pursuit of Lady Dedlock, and the finding of the fugitive,
cold and dead, with one arm around a rail of the dark little graveyard where they buried the
law-copyist, "Nemo," and where poor Jo, the crossing-sweeper, came at night and swept the stones
as his last tribute to the friend who "was very good" to him. There are three striking descriptions
of this place in the novel. "A hemmed-in churchyard, pestiferous and obscene--a beastly scrap
of ground which a Turk would reject as a savage abomination, and a Kafir would shudder at.

The exact situation of the graveyard is not defined in the novel; but it was evidently near
Lincoln's Inn, and Mr. Winter told us, in one of his delightful London letters, that it was
also near Drury Lane. So strangely hidden away is it among close and dirty houses that it was
only after three long searches through all the courts thereabouts that I found the "reeking
little tunnel," and twice I passed the entrance without observing it. Opening out of Drury
Lane, at the back and side of the theater, is a network of narrow, flagged passages built up
with tall houses. There are rag and waste-paper shops in this retreat, two or three dreadful
little greengrocers' stalls, a pawnbroker's, a surprizing number of cobblers, and in the core
of the place, where the alley widens into the semblance of a dwarfed court, a nest of dealers
in theatrical finery, dancing-shoes, pasteboard rounds of beef and cutlets, stage armor, and
second-hand play-books. Between Marquis Court on the one hand, Russell Court on the other,
and a miserable alley called Cross Court which connects them, is what appears at first sight
to be a solid block of tenements. The graveyard is in the very heart of this populous block.
The door of one of the houses stood open, and through a barred staircase window at the back
of the entry I caught a glimpse of a patch of grass--a sight so strange in this part of London
that I went around to the other side of the block to examine further.

There I found the "reeking little tunnel." It is merely a stone-paved passage about four feet
wide through the ground floor of a tenement. House doors open into it. A lamp hangs over the
entrance. A rusty iron gate closes it at the farther end. Here is the "pestiferous and obscene
churchyard," completely hemmed in by the habitations of the living. Few of the graves are marked,
and most of the tombstones remaining are set up on end against the walls of the houses. Perhaps
a church stood there once, but there is none now. The burials are no longer permitted in this
hideous spot, the people of the block, when they shut their doors at night, shut the dead in
with them. The dishonoring of the old graves goes on briskly. Inside the gate lay various rubbish--a
woman's boot, a broken coal scuttle, the foot of a tin candlestick, fragments of paper, sticks,
bones, straw--unmentionable abominations; and over the dismal scene a reeking, smoke-laden
fog spread darkness and moisture.

THE TEMPLE CHURCH [Footnote: From "Walks in London."]

BY AUGUSTUS J.C. HARE

By Inner Temple Lane we reach the only existing relic of the residence of the Knights Templars
in these courts, their magnificent Temple Church (St Mary's), which fortunately just escaped
the Great Fire in which most of the Inner Temple perished. The church was restored in 1839-42
at an expense of £70,000, but it has been ill-done, and with great disregard of the historic
memorials it contained.

It is entered by a grand Norman arch under the western porch, which will remind those who have
traveled in France of the glorious door of Loches. This opens upon the Round Church of 1185
(fifty-eight feet in diameter), built in recollection of the Round Church of the Holy Sepulcher,
one of the only four remaining round churches in England; the others being at Cambridge, Northampton,
and Maplestead in Essex. Hence, between graceful groups of Purbeck marble columns, we look
into the later church of 1240; these two churches, built only at a distance of fifty-five years
from each other, forming one of the most interesting examples we possess of the transition
from Norman to Early English architecture. The Round Church is surrounded by an arcade of narrow
Early English arches, separated by a series of heads, which are chiefly restorations. On the
pavement lie two groups of restored effigies of "associates" of the Temple (not Knights Templars),
carved in freestone, being probably the "eight images of armed knights" mentioned by Stow in
1598....

Against the wall, behind the Marshalls, is the effigy of Robert Ros, Governor of Carlisle in
the reign of John. He was one of the great Magna Charta barons, and married the daughter of
a king of Scotland, but he was not a Templar, for he wears flowing hair, which is forbidden
by the rites of the Order; at the close of his life, however, he took the Templars' habit as
an associate, and was buried here in 1227. On the opposite side is a Purbeck marble sarcophagus,
said to be that of Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine, but her effigy is at Fontevrault, where the
monastic annals prove that she took the veil after the murder of Prince Arthur. Henry II. left
five hundred marks by his will for his burial in the Temple Church, but was also buried at
Fontevrault. Gough considers that the tomb here may be that of William Plantagenet, fifth son
of Henry III., who died in infancy, and (according to Weaver) was buried in the Temple in 1256.

A staircase in the walls leads to the triforium of the Round Church, which is now filled with
the tombs, foolishly removed from the chancel beneath. Worthy of especial notice is the colored
kneeling effigy of Martin, Recorder of London, and Reader of the Middle Temple, 1615. Near
this is the effigy--also colored and under a canopy--of Edmund Plowden, the famous jurist,
of whom Lord Ellenborough said that "better authority could not be cited"; and referring to
whom Fuller quaintly remarks: "How excellent a medley is made, when honesty and ability meet
in a man of his profession!" [Footnote: Hawthorne.] In the ornaments of the ceiling the banner
of the Templars is frequently repeated--black and white, "because," says Fawyne, "the Templars
showed themselves wholly white and fair toward the Christians, but black and terrible to them
that were miscreants." The letters "Beausean" are for "Beauseant," their war cry.

In a dark hole to the left of the altar is the white marble monument of John Selden, 1654,
called by Milton "the chief of learned men reputed in this land." The endless stream of volumes
which he poured forth were filled with research and discrimination. Of these, his work "On
the Law of Nature and of Nations" is described by Hallam as among the greatest achievements
in erudition that any English writer has performed, but he is perhaps best known by his "Table
Talk," of which Coleridge says, "There is more weighty bullion sense in this book than I ever
found in the same number of pages of any uninspired writer."...

On the right of the choir, near a handsome marble piscina, is the effigy of a bishop, usually
shown as that of Heraclius, Patriarch of Jerusalem, by whom the church was consecrated, but
he left England in a fury, after Henry II. refused to perform his vow of joining the Crusades
in person, to atone for the murder of Becket. The figure more probably represents Silverston
de Eversdon, Bishop of Carlisle, 1255. In the vestry are monuments to Lords Eldon and Stowell,
and that of Lord Thurlow (1806) by Rossi.

The organ, by Father Smydt or Smith, is famous from the long competition it underwent with
one by Harris. Both were temporarily erected in the church. Blow and Purcell were employed
to perform on that of Smith; Battista Draghi, organist to Queen Catherine, on that of Harris.
Immense audiences came to listen, but tho the contest lasted a year they could arrive at no
decision. Finally, it was left to Judge Jefferies of the Inner Temple, who was a great musician,
and who chose that of Smith.

LAMBETH--CHURCH AND PALACE [Footnote: From "Walks in London."]

BY AUGUSTUS J.C. HARE

The Church of St. Mary, Lambeth, was formerly one of the most interesting churches in London,
being, next to Canterbury Cathedral, the great burial place of its archbishops, but falling
under the ruthless hand of "restorers" it was rebuilt (except its tower of 1377) in 1851-52
by Hardwick, and its interest has been totally destroyed, its monuments huddled away anywhere,
for the most part close under the roof, where their inscriptions are of course wholly illegible!...

Almost the only interesting feature retained in this cruelly abused building is the figure
of a pedler with his pack and dog (on the third window of the north aisle) who left "Pedlar's
Acre" to the parish, on condition of his figure being always preserved on one of the church
windows. The figure was existing here as early as 1608.

In the churchyard, at the east end of the church, is an altar tomb, with the angles sculptured
like trees, spreading over a strange confusion of obelisks, pyramids, crocodiles, shells, etc.,
and, at one end, a hydra. It is the monument of John Tradescant (1638) and his son, two of
the earliest British naturalists. The elder was so enthusiastic a botanist that he joined an
expedition against Algerine corsairs on purpose to get a new apricot from the African coast,
which was thenceforth known as "the Algier Apricot." His quaint medley of curiosities, known
in his own time as "Tradeskin's Ark," was afterward incorporated with the Ashmolean Museum....

"Lambeth, envy of each band and gown," has been for more than 700 years the residence of the
Archbishops of Canterbury, tho the site of the present palace was only obtained by Archbishop
Baldwin in 1197, when he exchanged some lands in Kent for it with Glanville, Bishop of Rochester,
to whose see it had been granted by the Countess Goda, sister of the Confessor. The former
proprietorship of the Bishops of Rochester is still commemorated in Rochester Row, Lambeth,
on the site of a house which was retained when the exchange was made, for their use when they
came to attend Parliament. The Palace is full of beauty in itself and intensely interesting
from its associations. It is approached by a noble Gateway of red brick with stone dressings,
built by Cardinal Moreton in 1490. It is here that the poor of Lambeth have received "the Archbishops'
Dole" for hundreds of years. In ancient times a farthing loaf was given twice a week to 4,000
people.

Adjoining the Porter's Lodge is a room evidently once used as a prison. On passing the gate
we are in the outer court, at the end of which rises the picturesque Lollards' Tower, built
by Archbishop Chicheley, 1434-45; on the right is the Hall. A second gateway leads to the inner
court, containing the modern (Tudor) palace, built by Archbishop Howley (1828-48), who spent
the whole of his private fortune upon it rather than let Blore the architect be ruined by exceeding
his contract to the amount of £30,000. On the left, between the buttresses of the hall, are
the descendants of some famous fig trees planted by Cardinal Pole.

The Hall was built by Archbishop Juxon in the reign of Charles II., on the site of the hall
built by Archbishop Boniface (1244), which was pulled down by Scot and Hardyng, the regicides,
who purchased the palace when it was sold under the Commonwealth. Juxon's arms and the date
1663 are over the door leading to the palace. The stained window opposite contains the arms
of many of the archbishops, and a portrait of Archbishop Chicheley. Archbishop Bancroft, whose
arms appear at the east end, turned the hall into a Library, and the collection of books which
it contains has been enlarged by his successors, especially by Archbishop Seeker, whose arms
appear at the west end, and who bequeathed his library to Lambeth. Upon the death of Laud,
the books were saved from dispersion through being claimed by the University of Cambridge,
under the will of Bancroft, which provided that they should go to the University if alienated
from the see; they were restored by Cambridge to Archbishop Sheldon. The library contains a
number of valuable MSS., the greatest treasure being a copy of Lord Rivers's translation of
the "Diets and Sayings of the Philosophers," with an illumination of the Earl presenting Caxton
on his knees to Edward IV. Beside the King stand Elizabeth Woodville and her eldest son, and
this, the only known portrait of Edward V., is engraved by Vertue in his Kings of England.

A glass case contains: The Four Gospels in Irish, a volume which belonged to King Athelstan,
and was given by him to the city of Canterbury; a copy of the Koran written by Sultan Allaruddeen
Siljuky in the fifteenth century, taken in the Library of Tippoo Saib at Seringapatam; the
Lumley Chronicle of St. Alban's Abbey; Queen Elizabeth's Prayer-Book, with illuminations from
Holbein's Dance of Death destroyed in Old St. Paul's; an illuminated copy of the Apocalypse,
of the thirteenth century; the Mazarine Testament, fifteenth century; and the rosary of Cardinal
Pole.

A staircase lined with portraits of the Walpole family, leads from the Library to the Guard
Room, now the Dining-Hall. It is surrounded by an interesting series of portraits of the archbishops
from the beginning of the sixteenth century.

Through the paneled room, called Cranmer's Parlor, we enter the Chapel, which stands upon a
Crypt supposed to belong to the manor-house built by Archbishop Herbert Fitzwalter, about 1190.
Its pillars have been buried nearly up to their capitals, to prevent the rising of the river
tides within its wall. The chapel itself, tho greatly modernized, is older than any other part
of the palace, having been built by Archbishop Boniface, 1244-70. Its lancet windows were found
by Laud--"shameful to look at, all diversely patched like a poor beggar's coat," and he filled
them with stained glass, which he proved that he collected from ancient existing fragments,
tho his insertion of "Popish images and pictures made by their like in a mass book" was one
of the articles in the impeachment against him. The glass collected by Laud was entirely smashed
by the Puritans: the present windows were put in by Archbishop Howley. In this chapel most
of the archbishops have been consecrated since the time of Boniface....

Here Archbishop Parker erected his tomb in his lifetime "by the spot where he used to pray,"
and here he was buried, but his tomb was broken up, with every insult that could be shown,
by Scot, one of the Puritan possessors of Lambeth, while the other, Hardyng, not to be outdone,
exhumed the Archbishop's body, sold its leaden coffin, and buried it in a dunghill. His remains
were found by Sir William Dugdale at the Restoration, and honorably reinterred in front of
the altar, with the epitaph, "Corpus Matthaei Archiepiscopi tandem hic quiescit." His tomb,
in the ante-chapel, was re-erected by Archbishop Sancroft, but the brass inscription which
encircled it is gone.

The screen, erected by Laud, was suffered to survive the Commonwealth. At the west end of the
chapel, high on the wall, projects a Gothic confessional, erected by Archbishop Chicheley.
It was formerly approached by seven steps. The beautiful western door of the chapel opens into
the curious Post Room, which takes its name from the central wooden pillar, supposed to have
been used as a whipping-post for the Lollards. The ornamented flat ceiling which we see here
is extremely rare. The door at the northeast corner, by which the Lollards were brought in,
was walled up, about 1874.

Hence we ascend the Lollard's [Footnote: The name Lollard was used as a term of reproach for
the followers of Wyclif. Formerly derived from Peter Lollard, a Waldensian pastor of the thirteenth
century, more recently from the Middle Dutch "lollen," to hum.] Tower, built by Chicheley--the
lower story of which is now given up by the Archbishop for the use of Bishops who have no fixt
residence in London. The winding staircase, of rude slabs of unplaned oak, on which the bark
in many cases remains, is of Chicheley's time. In a room at the top is a trap-door, through
which as the tide rose prisoners, secretly condemned, could be let down unseen into the river.
Hard by is the famous Lollard's Prison (13 feet long, 12 broad, 8 high), boarded all over walls,
ceiling, and floor. The rough-hewn boards bear many fragments of inscriptions which show that
others besides Lollards were immured here. Some of them, especially his motto "Nosce te ipsum,"
are attributed to Cranmer. The most legible inscription is "IHS cyppe me out of all al compane.
Amen." Other boards bear the notches cut by prisoners to mark the lapse of time. The eight
rings remain to which the prisoners were secured: one feels that his companions must have envied
the one by the window. Above some of the rings the boards are burned with the hot-iron used
in torture. The door has a wooden lock, and is fastened by the wooden pegs which preceded the
use of nails; it is a relic of Archbishop Sudbury's palace facing the river, which was pulled
down by Chicheley. From the roof of the chapel there is a noble view up the river, with the
quaint tourelle of the Lollard's Tower in the foreground.

The gardens of Lambeth are vast and delightful. Their terrace is called "Clarendon's Walk"
from a conference which there took place between Laud and the Earl of Clarendon. The "summer-house
of exquisite workmanship," built by Cranmer, has disappeared. A picturesque view may be obtained
of Cranmer's Tower, with the Chapel and the Lollard's Tower behind it.

DICKENS'S LIMEHOUSE HOLE [Footnote A: From "A Pickwickian Pilgrimage." It was easy enough to
trace the course of Mortimer Lightwood and Eugene Wrayburn, as they walked under the guidance
of Riderhood through the stormy night from their rooms in The Temple, four miles away, past
the Tower and the London Docks, and down by the slippery water's edge to Limehouse Hole, when
they went to cause Gaffer Hexam's arrest, and found him drowned, tied to his own boat. The
strictly commercial aspect of the Docks--the London Docks above and the West India Docks below--shades
off by slight degrees into the black misery of the hole. The warehouses are succeeded by boat-builders'
sheds; by private wharves, where ships, all hidden, as to their hulls, behind walls and close
fences, thrust unexpected bowsprits over the narrow roadway; by lime-yards; by the shops of
marine store-dealers and purveyors to all the wants and follies of seamen; and then by a variety
of strange establishments which it would be hard to classify.

Close by a yard piled up with crates and barrels of second-hand bottles, was a large brick
warehouse devoted to the purchase and sale of broken glass. A wagon loaded with that commodity
stood before the door, and men with scoop-shovels were transferring the glass into barrels.
An enclosure of one or two acres, in an out-of-the-way street, might have been the original
of the dust-yard that contained Boffin's Bower, except that Boffin's Bower was several miles
distant, on the northern outskirt of London. A string of carts, full of miscellaneous street
and house rubbish, all called here by the general name of "dust," were waiting their turn to
discharge. There was a mountain of this refuse at the end of the yard; and a party of laborers,
more or less impeded by two very active black hogs, were sifting and sorting it. Other mounds,
formed from the sittings of the first, were visible at the sides. There were huge accumulations
of broken crockery and of scraps of tin and other metal, and of bones. There was a quantity
of stable-manure and old straw, and a heap, as large as a two-story cottage, of old hoops stript
from casks and packing-cases. I never understood, until I looked into this yard, how there
could have been so much value in the dust-mounds at Boffin's Bower.

Gradually the streets became narrower, wetter, dirtier, and poorer. Hideous little alleys led
down to the water's edge where the high tide splashed over the stone steps. I turned into several
of them, and I always found two or three muddy men lounging at the bottom; often a foul and
furtive boat crept across the field of view. The character of the shops became more and more
difficult to define. Here a window displayed a heap of sailor's thimbles and pack-thread; there
another set forth an array of trumpery glass vases or a basket of stale fruit, pretexts, perhaps,
for the disguise of a "leaving shop," or unlicensed pawnbroker's establishment, out of which
I expected to see Miss Pleasant Riderhood come forth, twisting up her back hair as she came.
At a place where the houses ceased, and an open space left free a prospect of the black and
bad-smelling river, there was an old factory, disused and ruined, like the ancient mill in
which Gaffer Hexam made his home, and Lizzie told the fortunes of her brother in the hollow
by the fire.

I turned down a muddy alley, where 12 or 15 placards headed "Body Found," were pasted against
the wall. They were printed forms, filled in with a pen. Mr. Forster tells us in his life of
Dickens that it was the sight of bills of this sort which gave the first suggestion of "Our
Mutual Friend." At the end of the alley was a neat brick police-station; stairs led to the
water, and several trim boats were moored there. A handsome young fellow in uniform, who looked
like a cross between a sailor and a constable, came out and asked very civilly if he could
be of use to me. "Do you know," said I, "where the station was that Dickens describes in 'Our
Mutual Friend'?"

"Oh, yes, sir! this is the very spot. It was the old building that stood just here: this is
a new one, but it has been put up in the same place."

"Mr. Dickens often went out with your men in the boat, didn't he?"

"Yes, sir, many a night in the old times."

"Do you know the tavern which is described in the same book by the name of The Six Jolly Fellowship
Porters?"

"No, sir, I don't know it; at least not by that name. It may have been pulled down, for a lot
of warehouses have been built along here, and the place is very much changed; or it may be
one of those below."

Of course, I chose to think that it must be "one of those below." I kept on a little farther,
by the crooked river lanes, where public houses were as plentiful as if the entire population
suffered from a raging and inextinguishable thirst for beer. The sign-boards displayed a preference
for the plural which seems not to have escaped the observation of the novelist. If I did not
see The Six Porters, I came across The Three Mariners, The Three Cups, The Three Suns, The
Three Tuns, The Three Foxes, and the Two Brewers; and in the last I hope that I found the original
of the tavern so often mentioned in the story. I got at the entrance on the land side after
a search among puzzling alleys, and there I found still stronger reminders of "Our Mutual Friend."
Stuck against the wall was an array of old and new hand-bills, headed, "Drowned," and offering
rewards for the recovery of bodies. The value set upon dead persons in Limehouse Hole is not
excessive: the customary recompense for finding them seems to be ten shillings, and in only
one instance did the price reach the dazzling amount of one pound.

By the side of the house is an approach to the river: most of the buildings near are old and
irregular, and at low tide a great deal of the shore must be exposed. Going upon the slippery
stones, beside which lay a few idle and rickety boats, I found the expected range of windows
with "red curtains matching the noses of the regular customers." I looked in at the door. A
long passage opened a vista of pleasant bar-parlor, or whatever it may have been, on the river-side;
and, perhaps, I should have seen Miss Abbey Potterson if I had gone to the end. Several water-side
characters were drinking beer at the lead-covered counter, waited upon by a sharp young woman,
who seems to have replaced Bob Gliddery. Instead of the little room called "Cozy," where the
Police Inspector drank burned sherry with Lightwood and Wrayburn, there was an apartment labelled
"The Club." A party of "regular customers," all evidently connected with water (or mud), sat
around a table: beyond question they were Tootle, and Mullins, and Bob Glamour, and Captain
Joey; and at ten o'clock Miss Abbey would issue from the bar-parlor, and send them home. If
The Jolly Fellowship Porters is still extant, this must be it.

WHITEHALL [Footnote: From "Walks in London."]

BY AUGUSTUS J.C. HARE

The present Banqueting-House of Whitehall was begun by Inigo Jones, and completed in 1622,
forming only the central portion of one wing in his immense design for a new palace, which,
if completed, would have been the finest in the world. The masonry is by a master-mason, Nicholas
Stone, several of whose works we have seen in other parts of London. "Little did James think
that he was raising a pile from which his son was to step from the throne to a scaffold." The
plan of Inigo Jones would have covered 24 acres, and one may best judge of its intended size
by comparison with other buildings. Hampton Court covers 8 acres; St. James's Palace, 4 acres;
Buckingham Palace, 2-1/2 acres. It would have been as large as Versailles, and larger than
the Louvre. Inigo Jones received only 8s. 4d. a day while he was employed at Whitehall, and
£46 per annum for house-rent. The huge palace always remained unfinished.

Whitehall attained its greatest splendor in the reign of Charles I. The mask of Comus was one
of the plays acted here before the king; but Charles was so afraid of the pictures in the Banqueting-House
being injured by the number of wax lights which were used, that he built for the purpose a
boarded room called the "King's Masking-House," afterward destroyed by the Parliament. The
gallery toward Privy Garden was used for the king's collection of pictures, afterward either
sold or burned. The Banqueting-House was the scene of hospitalities almost boundless.

The different accounts of Charles I.'s execution introduce us to several names of the rooms
in the old palace. We are able to follow him through the whole of the last scenes of the 30th
of January, 1648. When he arrived, having walked from St. James's, "the King went up the stairs
leading to the Long Gallery" of Henry VIII, and so to the west side of the palace. In the "Horn
Chamber" he was given up to the officers who held the warrant for his execution. Then he passed
on to the "Cabinet Chamber," looking upon Privy Garden. Here, the scaffold not being ready,
he prayed and conversed with Bishop Juxon, ate some bread, and drank some claret. Several of
the Puritan clergy knocked at the door and offered to pray with him, but he said that they
had prayed against him too often for him to wish to pray with them in his last moments. Meanwhile,
in a small distant room, Cromwell was signing the order to the executioner, and workmen were
employed in breaking a passage through the west wall of the Banqueting House, that the warrant
for the execution might be carried out which ordained it to be held "in the open street before
Whitehall."....

Almost from the time of Charles's execution Cromwell occupied rooms in the Cockpit, where the
Treasury is now, but soon after he was installed "Lord Protector of the Commonwealth" (December
16, 1653), he took up his abode in the royal apartments, with his "Lady Protectress" and his
family. Cromwell's puritanical tastes did not make him averse to the luxury he found there,
and, when Evelyn visited Whitehall after a long interval in 1656, he found it "very glorious
and well furnished." But the Protectress could not give up her habits of nimble housewifery,
and "employed a surveyor to make her some little labyrinths and trap-stairs, by which she might,
at all times, unseen, pass to and fro, and come unawares upon her servants, and keep them vigilant
in their places and honest in the discharge thereof." With Cromwell in Whitehall lived Milton,
as his Latin Secretary. Here the Protector's daughters, Mrs. Rich and Mrs. Claypole, were married,
and here Oliver Cromwell died (September 3, 1658) while a great storm was raging which tore
up the finest elms in the Park, and hurled them to the ground, beneath the northern windows
of the palace. Having inquired of Godwin, the divine who attended him, whether a person who
had once been in a state of grace could afterward be damned, and being assured it was impossible,
he said, "Then I am safe, for I am sure that I was once in a state of grace." Richard Cromwell
continued to reside in Whitehall till his resignation of the Protectorate.

On his birthday, the 29th of May, 1660, Charles II returned to Whitehall. The vast labyrinthine
chambers of the palace were soon filled to overflowing by his crowded court. The queen's rooms
were facing the river to the east of the Water Gate. Prince Rupert had rooms in the Stone Gallery,
which ran along the south side of Privy Gardens, beyond the main buildings of the palace, and
beneath him were the apartments of the king's mistresses, Barbara Palmer, Countess of Castlemaine,
afterward Duchess of Cleveland, and Louise de Querouaille, Duchess of Portsmouth. The rooms
of the latter, who first came to England with Henrietta, Duchess of Orleans, to entice Charles
II into an alliance with Louis XIV., and whose "childish, simple, baby-face" is described by
Evelyn, were three times rebuilt to please her, having "ten times the richness and glory" of
the queen's. Nell Gwynne did not live in the palace, tho she was one of Queen Catherine's Maids
of Honor!

Charles died in Whitehall on February 6, 1684. With his successor the character of the palace
changed. James II, who continued to make it his principal residence, established a Roman Catholic
chapel there.

It was from Whitehall that Queen Mary Beatrice made her escape on the night of December 9,
1688. The adventure was confided to the Count de Lauzun and his friend M. de St. Victor, a
gentleman of Avignon. The queen on that terrible evening entreated vainly to be allowed to
remain and share the perils of her husband; he assured her that it was absolutely necessary
that she should precede him, and that he would follow her in twenty-four hours. The king and
queen went to bed as usual to avoid suspicion, but rose soon after, when the queen put on a
disguise provided by St. Victor. The royal pair then descended to the rooms of Madame de Labadie,
where they found Lauzun, with the infant Prince James and his two nurses. The king, turning-to
Lauzun, said, "I confide my queen and my son to your care: all must be hazarded to convey them
with the utmost speed to France." Lauzun then gave his hand to the queen to lead her away,
and, followed by the two nurses with the child, they crossed the Great Gallery, and descended
by a back staircase and a postern gate to Privy Gardens. At the garden gate a coach was waiting,
the queen entered with Lauzun, the nurses, and her child, who slept the whole time, St. Victor
mounted by the coachman, and they drove to the "Horse Ferry" at Westminster, where a boat was
waiting in which they crossed to Lambeth.

On the 11th the Dutch troops had entered London, and James, having commanded the gallant Lord
Craven, who was prepared to defend the palace to the utmost, to draw off the guard which he
commanded, escaped himself in a boat from the water-entrance of the palace at three o'clock
in the morning. At Feversham his flight was arrested, and he returned amid bonfires, bell-ringing,
and every symptom of joy from the fickle populace. Once more he slept in Whitehall, but in
the middle of the night was aroused by order of his son-in-law, and hurried forcibly down the
river to Rochester, whence, on December 23, he escaped to France. On the 25th of November the
Princess Anne had declared against her unfortunate father, by absconding at night by a back
staircase from her lodgings in the Cockpit, as the northwestern angle of the palace was called,
which looked on St. James's Park. Compton, Bishop of London, was waiting for her with a hackney
coach, and she fled to his house in Aldersgate Street. Mary II arrived in the middle of February,
and "came into Whitehall, jolly as to a wedding, seeming quite transported with joy."

But the glories of Whitehall were now over. William III., occupied with his buildings at Hampton
Court and Kensington, never cared to live there, and Mary doubtless stayed there as little
as possible, feeling opprest by the recollections of her youth spent there with an indulgent
father whom she had cruelly wronged, and a stepmother whom she had once loved with sisterly
as well as filial affection, and from whom she had parted with passionate grief on her marriage,
only nine years before. The Stone Gallery and the late apartments of the royal mistresses in
Whitehall were burned down in 1691, and the whole edifice was almost totally destroyed by fire
through the negligence of a Dutch maidservant in 1697.

The principal remaining fragment of the palace is the Banqueting-House of Inigo Jones, from
which Charles I. passed to execution. Built in the dawn of the style of Wren, it is one of
the most grandiose examples of that style, and is perfect alike in symmetry and proportion.
That it has no entrance apparent at first sight is due to the fact that it was only intended
as a portion of a larger building. In the same way we must remember that the appearance of
two stories externally, while the whole is one room, is due to the Banqueting-House being only
one of four intended blocks, of which one was to be a chapel surrounded by galleries, and the
other two divided into two tiers of apartments. The Banqueting-House was turned into a ehapel
by George I., but has never been consecrated, and the aspect of a hall is retained by the ugly
false red curtains which surround the interior of the building. It is called the Chapel Royal
of Whitehall, is served by the chaplains of the sovereign, and is one of the dreariest places
of worship in London. The ceiling is still decorated with canvas pictures by Rubens (1635)
representing the apotheosis of James I. The painter received £3,000 for these works. The walls
were to have been painted by Vandyke with the History of the Order of the Garter. "What," says
Walpole, "had the Banqueting-House been if completed?" Over the entrance is a bronze bust of
James I. attributed to Le Soeur.

THE TOWER [Footnote: From "Her Majesty's Tower."]

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON

Half-a-mile below London Bridge, on ground which was once a bluff, commanding the Thames from
St. Saviour's Creek to St. Olave's Wharf, stands the Tower; a mass of ramparts, walls, and
gates, the most ancient and most poetic pile in Europe.... The Tower has an attraction for
us akin to that of the house in which we were born, the school in which we were trained. Go
where we may, that grim old edifice on the Pool goes with us; a part of all we know, and of
all we are. Put seas between us and the Thames, this Tower will cling to us, like a thing of
life. It colors Shakespeare's page. It casts a momentary gloom over Bacon's story. Many of
our books were written in its vaults; the Duke of Orleans's "Poesies," Raleigh's "Historie
of the World," Eliot's "Monarchy of Man," and Penn's "No Cross, No Crown."

Even as to length of days, the Tower has no rival among places and prisons, its origin, like
that of the Iliad, that of the Sphinx, that of the Newton Stone, being lost in the nebulous
ages, long before our definite history took shape. Old writers date it from the days of Caesar;
a legend taken up by Shakespeare and the poets in favor of which the name of Caesar's tower
remains in popular use to this very day. A Roman wall can even yet be traced near some parts
of the ditch. The Tower is mentioned in the Saxon Chronicle in a way not incompatible with
the fact of a Saxon stronghold having stood upon this spot. The buildings as we have them now
in block and plan were commenced by William the Conqueror; and the series of apartments in
Caesar's tower--hall, gallery, council-chamber, chapel--were built in the early Norman reigns,
and used as a royal residence by all our Norman kings. What can Europe show to compare against
such a tale?

Set against the Tower of London--with its 800 years of historic life, its 1,900 prisons of
traditional fame--all other palaces and prisons appear like things of an hour. The oldest bit
of palace in Europe, that of the west front of the Burg in Vienna, is of the time of Henry
the Third. The Kremlin in Moscow, the Doge's Palazzo in Venice, are of the fourteenth century.
The Seraglio in Stamboul was built by Mohammed the Second. The oldest part of the Vatican was
commenced by Borgia, whose name it bears. The old Louvre was commenced in the reign of Henry
the Eighth; the Tuilleries in that of Elizabeth. In the time of our civil war Versailles was
yet a swamp. Sans Souci and the Escurial belong to the eighteenth century. The Serail of Jerusalem
is a Turkish edifice. The palaces of Athens, of Cairo, of Teheran, are all of modern date.

Neither can the prisons which remain in fact as well as in history and drama--with the one
exception of St. Angelo in Rome--compare with the Tower. The Bastile is gone; the Bargello
has become a museum; the Piombi are removed from the Doge's roof. Vincennes, Spandau, Spilberg,
Magdeburg, are all modern in comparison with a jail from which Ralph Flambard escaped so long
ago in the year 1100, the date of the First Crusade.

Standing on Tower Hill, looking down on the dark lines of wall--picking out keep and turret,
bastion and ballium, chapel and belfry--the jewel-house, armory, the mounts, the casemates,
the open leads, the Bye-ward-gate, the Belfry, the Bloody tower--the whole edifice seems alive
with story--the story of a nation's highest splendor, its deepest misery, and its darkest shame.
The soil beneath your feet is richer in blood than many a great battle-field; for out upon
this sod has been poured, from generation to generation, a stream of the noblest life in our land.

Should you have come to this spot alone, in the early days when the Tower is noisy with martial
doings, you may haply catch in the hum which rises from the ditch and issues from the wall
below you--broken by roll of drum, by blast of bugle, by tramp of soldiers--some echoes, as
it were, of a far-off time, some hints of a Mayday revel, of a state execution, of a royal
entry. You may catch some sound which recalls the thrum of a queen's virginal, the cry of a
victim on the rack, the laughter of a bridal feast. For all these sights and sounds--the dance
of love and the dance of death--are part of that gay and tragic memory which clings around
the Tower.

From the reign of Stephen down to that of Henry of Richmond, Caesar's tower (the great Norman
keep, now called the White Tower), was a main part of the royal palace; and for that large
interval of time the story of the White Tower is in some part that of our English society as
well as of our English kings. Here were kept the royal wardrobe and the royal jewels; and hither
came with their goody wares the tiremen, the goldsmiths, the chasers and embroiderers, from
Flanders, Italy, and Almaigne. Close by were the Mint, the lion's den, the old archery-grounds,
the Court of King's Bench, the Court of Common Pleas, the Queen's gardens, the royal banqueting-hall,
so that art and trade, science and manners, literature and law, sport and politics, find themselves
equally at home.

Two great architects designed the main parts of the Tower: Gundulf the Weeper and Henry the
Builder; one a poor Norman monk, the other a great English king.

Gundulf, a Benedictine friar, had, for that age, seen a great deal of the world; for he had
not only lived in Rouen and Caen, but had traveled in the East. Familiar with the glories of
Saracenic art, no less than with the Norman simplicities of Bec, St. Ouen, and St. Etienne,
a pupil of Lanfranc, a friend of Anselm, he had been employed in the monastery of Bec to marshal
with the eye of an artist all the pictorial ceremonies of his church. But he was chiefly known
in that convent as a weeper. No monk at Bec could cry so often and so much as Gundulf. He could
weep with those who wept, nay, he could weep with those who sported, for his tears welled forth
from what seemed to be an unfailing source.

As the price of his exile from Bec, Gundulf received the crozier of Rochester, in which city
he rebuilt the cathedral and perhaps designed the castle, since the great keep on the Medway
has a sister's likeness to the great keep on the Thames. His works in London were the White
Tower, the first St. Peter's Church, and the old barbican, afterward known as the Hall Tower,
and now used as the Jewel House.

The cost of these works was great; the discontent caused by them was sore. Ralph, Bishop of
Durham, the able and rapacious minister who had to raise the money, was hated and reviled by
the Commons with peculiar bitterness of heart and phrase. He was called Flambard, or Firebrand.
He was represented as a devouring lion. Still the great edifice grew up, and Gundulf, who lived
to the age of fourscore, saw his great keep completed from basement to battlement.

Henry the Third, a prince of epical fancies as Corffe, Conway, Beaumaris and many other fine
poems in stone attest, not only spent much of his money in adding to its beauty and strength,
... but was his own chief clerk of the works. The Water Gate, the embanked wharf, the Cradle
Tower, the Lantern, which he made his bedroom and private closet, the Galleyman Tower, and
the first wall appear to have been his gifts. But the prince who did so much for Westminster
Abbey, not content with giving stone and piles to the home in which he dwelt, enriched the
chambers with frescoes and sculptures, the chapels with carving and glass, making St. John's
Chapel in the White Tower splendid with saints, St. Peter's Church on the Tower Green musical
with bells. In the Hall Tower, from which a passage led through the Great Hall into the King's
bedroom in the Lantern, he built a tiny chapel for his private use--a chapel which served for
the devotions of his successors until Henry the Sixth was stabbed to death before the cross.
Sparing neither skill nor gold to make the great fortress worthy of his art, he sent to Purbeck
for marble and to Caen for stone. The dabs of lime, the spawls of flint, the layers of brick
which deface the walls and towers in too many places are of either earlier or later times.
The marble shafts, the noble groins, the delicate traceries, are Henry's work. Traitor's Gate
was built by him. In short, nearly all that is purest in art is traceable to his reign.

Edward the First may be added, at a distance, to the list of builders. In his reign the original
Church of St. Peter's fell into ruin; the wrecks were carted away, and the present edifice
was built. The bill of costs for clearing the ground is still extant in Fetter Lane. Twelve
men, who were paid twopence a day wages, were employed on the work for twenty days. The cost
of pulling down the old chapel was forty-six shillings and eight pence; that of digging foundations
for the new chapel forty shillings. That chapel has suffered from wardens and lieutenants;
yet the shell is of very fine Norman work.

From the days of Henry the builder down to those of Henry of Richmond the Tower, as the strongest
place in the south of England, was by turns the magnificent home and the miserable jail of
all our princes. Here Richard the Second held his court and gave up his crown. Here Henry the
Sixth was murdered. Here the Duke of Clarence was drowned in wine. Here King Edward and the
Duke of York was slain by command of Richard. Here Margaret of Salisbury suffered her tragic fate.

Henry of Richmond kept his royal state in the Tower, receiving his ambassadors, counting his
angels, making presents to his bride, Elizabeth of York. Among other gifts to that lady on
her nuptial day was a Royal Book of verse, composed by a prisoner in the keep.

ST. JAMES'S PALACE [Footnote: From "Walks in London."]

BY AUGUSTUS J.C. HARE

The picturesque old brick gateway of St. James's Palace still looks up St. James's Street,
one of the most precious relics of the past in London, and enshrining the memory of a greater
succession of historical events than any other domestic building in England, Windsor Castle
not excepted. The site of the palace was occupied, even before the Conquest, by a hospital
dedicated to St. James, for "fourteen maidens that were leprous." Henry VIII. obtained it by
exchange, pensioned off the sisters, and converted the hospital into "a fair mansion and park,"
in the same year in which he was married to Anne Boleyn, who was commemorated here with him
in love-knots, now almost obliterated, upon the side doors of the gateway, and in the letters
"H.A." on the chimney-piece of the presence-chamber or tapestry room. Holbein is sometimes
said to have been the king's architect here, as he was at Whitehall. Henry can seldom have
lived here, but hither his daughter, Mary I., retired, after her husband Philip left England
for Spain, and here she died, November 17, 1558.

James I., in 1610, settled St. James's on his eldest son, Prince Henry, who kept his court
here for two years with great magnificence, having a salaried household of no less than two
hundred and ninety-seven persons. Here he died in his nineteenth year, November 6, 1612. Upon
his death, St. James's was given to his brother Charles, who frequently resided here after
his accession to the throne, and here Henrietta Maria gave birth to Charles II., James II.,
and the Princess Elizabeth. In 1638 the palace was given as a refuge to the queen's mother,
Marie de Medici, who lived here for three years, with a pension of £3,000 a month! Hither Charles
I. was brought from Windsor as the prisoner of the Parliament, his usual attendants, with one
exception, being debarred access to him, and being replaced by common soldiers, who sat smoking
and drinking even in the royal bedchamber, never allowing him a moment's privacy, and hence
he was taken in a sedan chair to his trial at Whitehall.

On the following day the king was led away from St. James's to the scaffold. His faithful friends,
Henry Rich, Earl of Holland, the Duke of Hamilton, and Lord Capel were afterward imprisoned
in the palace and suffered like their master.

Charles II., who was born at St. James's (May 29, 1630), resided at Whitehall, giving up the
palace to his brother, the Duke of York (also born here, October 25, 1633), but reserving apartments
for his mistress, the Duchess of Mazarin, who at one time resided there with a pension of £4,000
a year. Here Mary II. was born, April 30, 1662; and here she was married to William of Orange,
at eleven at night, November 4, 1677. Here for many years the Duke and Duchess of York secluded
themselves with their children, in mourning and sorrow, on the anniversary of his father's
murder. Here also Anne Hyde, Duchess of York, died, March 31, 1671, asking, "What is truth?"
of Blandford, Bishop of Worcester, who came to visit her.

In St. James's Palace also, James's second wife, Mary of Modena, gave birth to her fifth child,
Prince James Edward ("the Old Pretender") on June 10, 1688.

It was to St. James's that William III. came on his first arrival in England, and he frequently
resided there afterward, dining in public, with the Duke of Schomberg seated at his right hand
and a number of Dutch guests, but on no occasion was any English gentleman invited. In the
latter part of William's reign the palace was given up to the Princess Anne, who had been born
there February 6, 1665, and married there to Prince George of Denmark July 28, 1683. She was
residing here when Bishop Burnet brought her the news of William's death and her own accession.
When the king left for Hanover, Miss Brett had a door opened from her rooms to the royal gardens,
which the king's granddaughter, Princess Anne, who was residing in the palace, indignantly
ordered to be walled up. Miss Brett had it opened a second time, and the quarrel was at its
height when the news of the king's death put an end to the power of his mistress. With the
accession of George II. the Countesses of Yarmouth and Suffolk took possession of the apartments
of the Duchess of Kendal. As Prince of Wales, George II. had resided in the palace till a smoldering
quarrel with his father came to a crisis over the christening of one of the royal children,
and the next day he was put under arrest, and ordered to leave St. James's with his family
the same evening. Wilhelmina Caroline of Anspach, the beloved queen of George II., died in
the palace, November 20, 1737, after an agonizing illness, endured with the utmost fortitude
and consideration for all around her.

Of the daughters of George II. and Queen Caroline, Anne, the eldest, was married at St. James's
to the Prince of Orange, November, 1733, urged to the alliance by her desire for power, and
answering to her parents, when they reminded her of the hideous and ungainly appearance of
the bridegroom, "I would marry him, even if he were a baboon!" The marriage, however, was a
happy one, and a pleasant contrast to that of her younger sister Mary, the king's fourth daughter,
who was married here to the brutal Frederick of Hesse Cassel, June 14, 1771. The third daughter,
Caroline, died at St. James's, December 28, 1757, after a long seclusion consequent upon the
death of John, Lord Harvey, to whom she was passionately attached.

George I. and George II. used, on certain days to play at Hazard at the grooms' postern at
St. James's, and the name "Hells," as applied to modern gaming-houses is derived from that
given to the gloomy room used by the royal gamblers.

The northern part of the palace, beyond the gateway (inhabited in the reign of Victoria by
the Duchess of Cambridge), was built for the marriage of Frederick Prince of Wales.

The State Apartments (which those who frequent levees and drawing-rooms have abundant opportunities
of surveying) are handsome, and contain a number of good royal portraits.

The Chapel Royal, on the right on entering the "Color Court," has a carved and painted ceiling
of 1540. Madame d'Arblay describes the pertinacity of George III. in attending service here
in bitter November weather, when the queen and court at length left the king, his chaplain,
and equerry "to freeze it out together."...

When Queen Caroline (wife of George II.) asked Mr. Whiston what fault people had to find with
her conduct, he replied that the fault they most complained of was her habit of talking in
chapel. She promised amendment, but proceeding to ask what other faults were objected to her,
he replied, "When your Majesty has amended this I'll tell you of the next."

It was in this chapel that the colors taken from James II. at the Battle of the Boyne were
hung up by his daughter Mary, an unnatural exhibition of triumph which shocked the Londoners.
Besides that of Queen Anne, a number of royal marriages have been solemnized here; those of
the daughters of George II., of Frederick Prince of Wales to Augusta of Saxe Cobourg, of George
IV. to Caroline of Brunswick, and of Queen Victoria to Prince Albert.

The Garden at the back of St. James's Palace has a private entrance to the Park. It was as
he was alighting from his carriage here, August 2, 1786, that George III. was attacked with
a knife by the insane Margaret Nicholson. "The bystanders were proceeding to wreak summary
vengeance on the (would-be) assassin, when the King generously interfered in her behalf. 'The
poor creature,' he exclaimed, 'is mad: do not hurt her; she has not hurt me.' He then stept
forward and showed himself to the populace, assuring them that he was safe and uninjured."

LITERARY SHRINES OF LONDON [Footnote: From "Shakespeare's England." By arrangement with the
publishers, Moffat, Yard & Co. Copyright by William Winter, 1878-1910.]

BY WILLIAM WINTER

The mind that can reverence historic associations needs no explanation of the charm that such
associations possess. There are streets and houses in London which, for pilgrims of this class,
are haunted with memories and hallowed with an imperishable light that not even the dreary
commonness of everyday life can quench or dim. Almost every great author in English literature
has here left some personal trace, some relic that brings you at once into his living presence.
In the time of Shakespeare,--of whom it should be noted that, wherever found, he is found in
elegant neighborhoods,--Aldersgate was a secluded, peaceful quarter of the town, and there
the poet had his residence, convenient to the theater in Blackfriars, in which he owned a share.
It is said that he dwelt at No. 134 Aldersgate Street (the house was long ago demolished),
and in that region, amid all the din of traffic and all the discordant adjuncts of a new age,
those who love him are in his company. Milton was born in a court adjacent to Bread Street,
Cheapside, and the explorer comes upon him as a resident in St. Bride's churchyard,--where
the poet Lovelace was buried,--and at No. 19 York Street, Westminster, in later times occupied
by Jeremy Bentham and by William Hazlitt. When secretary to Cromwell he lived in Scotland Yard,
now the headquarters of the London police. His last home was in Artillery Walk, Bunhill Fields,
but the visitor to that spot finds it covered by the Artillery barracks. Walking through King
Street, Westminster, you will not forget the great poet Edmund Spenser, who, a victim to barbarity,
died there, in destitution and grief. Ben Jonson's terse record of that calamity says: "The
Irish having robbed Spenser's goods and burnt his house and a little child new-born, he and
his wife escaped, and after he died, for lack of bread, in King Street." Ben Jonson is closely
associated with places that can still be seen. He passed his boyhood near Charing Cross--having
been born in Hartshorn Lane, now Northumberland Street; he attended the parish school of St.
Martin's-in-the-Fields; and persons who roam about Lincoln's Inn will call to mind that he
helped to build it--a trowel in one hand and a volume of Horace in the other. His residence,
in his day of fame, was outside the Temple Bar, but all that neighborhood is new.

The Mermaid,--which Jonson frequented, in companionship with Shakespeare, Fletcher, Herrick,
Chapman, and Donne,--was in Bread Street, but no trace of it remains, and a banking house stands
now on the site of the old Devil Tavern, in Fleet Street, a room in which, called "The Apollo,"
was the trysting place of the club of which he was the founder. The famous inscription, "O,
rare Ben Jonson!" is three times cut in the Abbey; once in Poets' Corner and twice in the north
aisle, where he was buried,--a little slab in the pavement marking his grave. Dryden once dwelt
in a quaint, narrow house, in Fetter Lane,--the street in which Dean Swift has placed the home
of "Gulliver," and where the famous Doomsday Book was kept,--but, later, he removed to a liner
dwelling, in Gerrard Street, Soho, which was the scene of his death. (The house in Fetter Lane
was torn down in 1891.) Edmund Burke's house, also in Gerrard Street, is a beer-shop, but the
memory of the great orator hallows the abode, and an inscription upon it proudly announces
that here he lived. Dr. Johnson's house, in Gough Square, bears (or bore) a mural tablet, and
standing at its time-worn threshold, the visitor needed no effort of fancy to picture that
uncouth figure shambling through the crooked lanes that afford access to this queer, somber,
melancholy retreat. In that house he wrote the first dictionary of the English language and
the characteristic, memorable letter to Lord Chesterfield. The historical antiquarian society
that has marked many of the literary shrines of London has rendered a signal service. The custom
of marking the houses that are associated with renowned names is, obviously, a good one, because
it provides instruction, and also because it tends to vitalize, in the general mind, a sense
of the value of honorable repute: it ought, therefore, to be everywhere adopted and followed.
A house associated with Sir Joshua Reynolds and a house associated with Hogaith, both in Leicester
Square, and houses associated with Benjamin Franklin and Peter the Great, in Craven Street;
Sheridan, in Savile Row; Campbell, in Duke Street; Carrick, in the Adelphi Terrace; Mrs. Siddons,
in Baker Street, and Michael Faraday, in Blandford Street, are only a few of the notable places
which have been thus designated. More of such commemorative work remains to be done, and, doubtless,
will be accomplished. The traveler would like to know in which of the houses in Buckingham
Street Coleridge lodged, while he was translating "Wallenstein"; which house in Bloomsbury
Square was the residence of Akenside, when he wrote "The Pleasures of Imagination," and of
Croly, when he wrote "Salathiel"; or where it was that Gray lived, when he established his
residence in Russel Square, in order to be one of the first (as he continued to be one of the
most constant) students at the then newly opened British Museum (1759).... These records, and
such as these, may seem trivialities, but Nature has denied an unfailing source of innocent
pleasure to the person who can feel no interest in them. For my part, when rambling in Fleet
Street it is a special delight to remember even so little an incident as that recorded of the
author of the "Elegy"--that he once saw there his contemptuous critic, Dr. Johnson, shambling
along the sidewalk, and murmured to a companion, "Here comes Ursa Major." For true lovers of
literature "Ursus Major" walks oftener in Fleet Street to-day than any living man.

A good leading thread of literary research might be profitably followed by the student who
should trace the footsteps of all the poets, dead and gone, that have held, in England, the
office of laureate. John Kay was laureate in the reign of King Edward the Fourth; Andrew Bernard
in that of King Henry the Seventh; John Skelton in that of King Henry the Eighth, and Edmund
Spenser in that of Queen Elizabeth. Since then the succession has included the names of Samuel
Daniel, Michael Drayton, Ben Jonson, Sir William Devenant, John Dryden, Thomas Shadwell, Nahum
Tate, Nicholas Rowe, Lawrence Eusden, Colley Cibber, William Whitehead, Thomas Warton, Henry
James Pye, Robert Southey, William Wordsworth, and Alfred Tennyson. Most of those bards were
intimately associated with London, and several of them are buried in the Abbey. It is, indeed,
because so many storied names are written upon gravestones that the explorer of the old churches
of London finds in them so rich a harvest of instructive association and elevating thought.
Few persons visit them, and you are likely to find yourself comparatively alone, in rambles
of this kind. I went one morning into St. Martin's,--once "in-the-fields," now at the busy
center of the city,--and found there only a pew-opener, preparing for the service, and an organist,
practising music. It is a beautiful structure, with graceful spire and with columns of weather-beaten,
gray stone, curiously stained with streaks of black, and it is almost as famous for theatrical
names as St. Paul's, Covent Garden, or St. George's, Bloomsbury, or St. Clement Danes. There,
in a vault beneath the church, was buried the bewitching, generous Nell Gwynn; there is the
grave of James Smith, joint author with his brother Horace,--who was buried at Tunbridge Wells,--of
"The Rejected Addresses"; there rests Richard Yates, the original "Sir Oliver Surface"; and
there were laid the ashes of the romantic Mrs. Centlivre, and of George Farquhar, whom neither
youth, genius, patient labor, nor sterling achievement could save from a life of misfortune
and an untimely, piteous death. A cheerier association of this church is with the poet Thomas
Moore, who was there married. At St. Giles's-in-the-Fields are the graves of George Chapman,
who translated Homer; Andrew Marvel, who wrote such lovely lyrics; Rich, the manager, who brought
out "The Beggar's Opera," and James Shirley, the fine dramatist and poet, whose immortal couplet
has often been murmured in such solemn haunts as these:

Only the actions of the just Smell sweet and blossom in the dust.

Shirley was one of the most fertile, accomplished, admirable, and admired of writers, during
the greater part of his life (1596-1666), and the study of his writing amply rewards the diligence
of the student. His plays, about forty in number, of which "The Traitor" is deemed the best
tragedy and "The Lady of Pleasure" the best comedy, comprehend a wide variety of subject and
exhibit refinement, deep feeling, and sustained fluency of graceful expression. His name is
associated with St. Albans, where he dwelt as a school-teacher, and, in London, with Gray's
Inn, where at one time he resided.

II

CATHEDRALS AND ABBEYS

CANTERBURY [Footnote: From "Two Months Abroad." Printed privately. (1878.)]

BY THE EDITOR

An Anglo-Saxon man may get down to first principles in Canterbury. He reaches the dividing
point in England between the old faith of Pagans and the new religion of Jesus the Christ.
The founder of the new gospel had been dead five hundred years when England accepted Him, and
acceptance came only after the Saxon King Ethelbert had married Bertha, daughter of a Frankish
prince. Here in Canterbury Ethelbert held his court. Bertha, like her father, was a Christian.
After her marriage, Bertha herself for some years held Christian services here alone in little
St. Martin's Church, but Ethelbert still loved his idols; indeed, for many years, he continued
to worship Odin and Thor. St. Patrick had been in Ireland a full century before this.

Bertha as a Christian stood almost alone in Saxon England, but her persistence at last so wrought
upon Ethelbert that he wrote a letter to Pope Gregory the Great, asking that a missionary be
sent to England. This was in the sixth century. St. Augustine and forty monks were dispatched
by Gregory to the English shore. To-day I have seen the church where this great missionary
preached. It still contains the font from which he baptized his many English converts. In this
church King Ethelbert himself embraced Christianity, and so it was that the union of Church
and State was here effected. Canterbury then became the mother of the Church of England--a
title she has retained through all succeeding years.

Few towns in England can interest an educated man more. Its foundation dates from years before
the Christian era--how long before no man knows. It is rich in history, secular as well as
ecclesiastical. The Black Prince, beloved and admired as few princes ever were, had a strong
attachment for it, and here lies buried. Opposite his tomb sleeps Henry IV, the king who dethroned
Richard II, son of this same Black Prince. Thomas à Becket, and those marvelous pilgrimages
that followed his murder for three hundred years, have given it lasting renown. The "father
of English poetry" has still further immortalized it in his "Tales." Indeed, there are few
towns possessing so many claims on the attention of the churchman, the antiquarian, and the
man of letters.

One of the densest fogs I ever knew settled upon the ancient town the morning after my arrival.
It was impossible to see clearly across streets. This fog increased the gloom which long ago
came over these ancient monuments and seemed to add something unreal to the air of solemn greatness
that appeared in every street and corner. Chance threw me into Mercury Lane. Here at once was
historic ground. On a corner of the lane stands the very old inn that is mentioned by Chaucer
as the resort of the pilgrims whose deeds he has celebrated. It is now used by a linen-draper.
The original vaulted cellars and overhanging upper stories still remain.

Pressing onward, I soon reached a Gothic gateway, handsomely carved, but sadly old and decayed.
It led into the grass-covered cathedral yard. Through the thick fog could now be distinguished
some of the lofty outlines of the majestic cathedral. Its central tower, which is among the
best specimens of the pointed style in England, could be seen faintly as it rose ponderously
into the clouded air. No picture, no figures, no mere letter, can place before the reader's
mind this enormous edifice. Its total length is 520 feet--Westminster Abbey is more than 100
feet less. As we enter, the immensity of it grows. It is a beautiful theory that these great
Gothic churches, as outgrowths of the spirit of Christianity, in their largeness and in the
forms of their windows and aisles, were meant to represent the universality and lofty ideals
of the Christian faith. Pagans worshiped largely in family temples which none but the rich
could build. The new faith opened its temples to all men, and it built churches large enough
for all classes and conditions to enter and find room.

Two styles of architecture are shown in the interior of Canterbury, Norman and Early Gothic.
In the former style are the transept, choir and Becket chapel, each with its noble series of
lofty columns and arches. Beneath the choir and chapel is a crypt, also Norman and the oldest
part of the cathedral, some of it undoubtedly dating from St. Augustine's time. He is known
to have built a church soon after his arrival upon ground formerly occupied by Christians in
the Roman army, and this is believed to be its site. The crypt, in a splendid state of preservation,
extends under the entire Norman portion of the building.

When the Gothic style came into vogue, succeeding the Norman, the remainder of the present
edifice was added. Either part--Norman or Gothic--would in itself make a large church. One
will meet few grander naves anywhere than this Gothic nave in Canterbury, formed of white stone
and wonderfully symmetrical in all its outlines. A screen, richly wrought, divides the Norman
from the Gothic part. Two flights of stone steps lead from one to the other. It will not be
easy to forget the impression made that dark December morning when I entered the little doorway
of this cathedral and first walked down its long, gray, lofty nave to this flight of steps.
The chanting in the choir of the morning service which echoed throughout the vast edifice gave
profound solemnity to a scene that can never pass from recollection.

When the service had closed, an intelligent verger acted as my guide. New chapels and aisles
seemed to open in all directions. Before we had completed the circuit, it seemed as if we were
going through another Westminster Abbey. In one cornear is the "Warrior's Chapel," crowded
with the tombs of knights whose effigies, in full armor, lie recumbent on elaborate bases.
Henry IV. and his second queen lie in the Becket Chapel under an elegant canopy, between two
immense Norman pillars. On the other side, between two other pillars, lies the Black Prince,
with recumbent statue in full armor. Suspended above the canopy are his coat of mail and the
helmet and shield he wore at Cressy.

In the center of this chapel, and between these two monuments, formerly stood Thomas à Becket's
famous shrine. The chapel was added to the cathedral for the express purpose of receiving his
remains. At the height of the pilgrimages, about 100,000 people are said to have visited it
every year. The steps that lead to it show how they were deeply worn by pilgrims, who ascended
in pairs on their knees. Where stood the shrine the pavement has also been worn deeply down
to the shape of the human knee by pilgrims while in prayer. Each pilgrim brought an offering,
and nothing less than gold was accepted. Not alone the common people, but princes, kings and
great church dignitaries from foreign lands came with gifts. Erasmus was here in 1510 and wrote
of the Becket shrine that it "shone and glittered with the rarest and most precious jewels
of an extraordinary largeness, some larger than the egg of a goose."

The brilliant duration of these pilgrimages came finally to a sudden end. During the Reformation,
Henry VIII. seized and demolished the shrine. The treasure, filling two large chests, and which
eight men could with difficulty carry, was seized, and on the adjoining pavement the bones
of the saint were burned. Not a single relic of Becket now remains in Canterbury. With no ordinary
feeling does one stand amid the scene of this most interesting and curious chapter in church
history. Not far from the shrine is the place where the murder of Becket was committed. You
are shown the actual stone that was stained with his blood. A piece of this stone, about four
inches square, was cut out of the pavement at the time of the murder and sent to Rome, where
it is still preserved. Among many interesting tombs not already referred to are those of the
great St. Dunstan; of Admiral Rooke, the hero of Gibraltar; of Stephen Langton (immortal with
Magna Charta), and of Archbishop Pole, of Mary Tudor's time, who died the same day as that
queen, and thus made clear Elizabeth's path to a restoration of Protestantism.

After the cathedral, the most interesting place in Canterbury is St. Martin's Church. With
few exceptions--including, perhaps, a very early and well-preserved church in Ravenna--it is
doubted if an older Christian church now remains in Europe. There certainly is none that can
claim more interest for Englishmen and for descendants of Englishmen in the New World. St.
Martin's is somewhat removed from the town, where it stands alone on a sloping knoll, and is
very simple in form. The tower that rises over the doorway is built of plain Roman brick and
broken flint stones, and has occasionally a piece of drest stone on corners. The tower is square
and rises about ten feet above the roof. Almost any mason could have built this church. A luxuriant
growth of ivy covers nearly all its parts. Rude in outline and finish are all its parts, ivy
has added to St. Martin's the only beauty it could possibly claim.

The interior bears heavier marks of age than do the walls outside. The chancel has walls built
almost entirely of Roman brick, and the nave is without columns. The old font--certainly one
of the first constructed in England--stands in the chancel. It was probably from this font
that King Ethelbert was baptized. Both chronicle and tradition say good Bertha was buried here.
A recess in the wall of the chancel contains an old stone coffin, which is believed to contain
the dust of England's first Christian queen. Standing within this ancient structure, one feels
that he has reached the source for Anglo-Saxon people of this modern faith, Christianity, and
the civilization it has given to the world. A new race of pilgrims, as numerous as those who
went to Becket's shrine, might well find as worthy an object of their gifts and their journeys
in this ivy-mantled relic of ancient days.

OLD YORK [Footnote: From "Gray Days and Gold." By arrangement with the publishers, Moffat,
Yard & Co. Copyright by William Winter, 1890.]

BY WILLIAM WINTER

The pilgrim to York stands in the center of the largest shire in England, and is surrounded
by castles and monasteries, now mostly in ruins, but teeming with those associations of history
and literature that are the glory of this delightful land. From the summit of the great central
tower of the cathedral, which is reached by 237 steps, I gazed, one morning, over the vale
of York and beheld one of the loveliest spectacles that ever blest the eyes of man. The wind
was fierce, the sun brilliant, and the vanquished storm-clouds were streaming away before the
northern blast. Far beneath lay the red-roofed city, its devious lanes and its many great churches,--crumbling
relics of ancient ecclesiastical power,--distinctly visible. Through the plain, and far away
toward the south and east, ran the silver thread of the Ouse, while all around, as far as the
eye could see, stretched forth a smiling landscape of green meadow and cultivated field; here
a patch of woodland, and there a silver gleam of wave; here a manor house nestled amid stately
trees, and there an ivy-covered fragment of ruined masonry; and everywhere the green lines
of the flowering hedge....

In the city that lies at your feet stood once the potent Constantine, to be proclaimed Emperor,
A.D. 306, and to be vested with the imperial purple of Rome. In the original York Minster (the
present is the fourth church that has been erected upon this site) was buried that valiant
soldier, "old Siward," whom "gracious England" lent to the Scottish cause, under Malcolm and
Macduff, when time at length was ripe for the ruin of Glamis and Cawdor. Close by is the field
of Stamford, where Harold defeated the Norwegians with terrible slaughter, only nine days before
he was himself defeated, and slain, at Hastings. Southward, following the line of the Ouse,
you look down upon the ruins of Clifford's Tower, built by King William the Conqueror in 1068,
and destroyed by the explosion of its powder magazine in 1684. Not far away is the battlefield
of Towton. King Henry the Sixth and Queen Margaret were waiting in York for news of the event
of that fatal battle,--which, in its effect, made them exiles, and bore to supremacy the rightful
standard of the White Rose. In this church King Edward the Fourth was crowned, 1464, and King
Richard the Third was proclaimed king and had his second coronation.

Southward you can see the open space called the Pavement, connecting with Parliament Street,
and the red brick church of St. Crux. In the Pavement the Earl of Northumberland was beheaded
for treason against Queen Elizabeth, in 1572, and in St. Crux, one of Wren's churches, his
remains lie buried, beneath a dark blue slab which is shown to visitors. A few miles away,
but easily within reach of your vision, is the field of Marston Moor, where the impetuous Prince
Rupert imperiled and well-nigh lost the cause of King Charles the First in 1644; and as you
look toward that fatal spot you almost hear, in the chamber of your fancy, the paeans of thanksgiving
for the victory, that were uttered in the church beneath. Cromwell, then a subordinate officer
in the Parliamentary army, was one of the worshipers. Of the fifteen kings, from William of
Normandy to Henry of Windsor, whose sculptured effigies appear upon the chancel screen in York
Minster, there is scarcely one who has not worshiped in this cathedral....

There it stands, symbolizing, as no other object on earth can ever do, except one of its own
great kindred, the promise of immortal life to man and man's pathetic faith in that promise.
Dark and lonely it comes back upon my vision, but during all hours of its daily and nightly
life sentient, eloquent, vital, participating in all the thought, conduct, and experience of
those who dwell around it....

York is the loftiest of all the English cathedrals, and the third in length,--both St. Alban's
and Winchester being longer. The present structure is 600 years old, and more than 200 years
were occupied in the building of it. They show you, in the crypt, some fine remains of the
Norman church that preceded it on the same site, together with traces of the still older Saxon
church that preceded the Norman. The first one was of wood, and was totally destroyed. The
Saxon remains are a fragment of stone staircase and a piece of wall built in the ancient herring-bone
fashion. The Norman remains are four clustered columns, embellished in the zig-zag style. There
is not much of commemorative statuary at York, and what there is of it was placed chiefly in
the chancel.

YORK AND LINCOLN COMPARED [Footnote: From "English Towns and Districts."]

BY EDWARD A. FREEMAN

The towers of Lincoln, simply as towers, are immeasurably finer than those of York; but the
front of York, as a front, far surpasses the front of Lincoln.

As for the general outline, there can be no doubt as to the vast superiority of Lincoln. Lincoln
has sacrificed a great deal to the enormous pitch of its roofs, but it has its reward in the
distant view of the outside. The outline of York is spoiled by the incongruity between the
low roofs of the nave and choir and the high roofs of the transepts. The dumpiness of the central
tower of York--which is, in truth, the original Norman tower cased--can not be wholly made
a matter of blame to the original builders. For it is clear that some finish, whether a crown
like those at Newcastle and Edinburgh or any other, was intended. Still the proportion which
is solemn in Romanesque becomes squat in perpendicular, and, if York has never received its
last finish, Lincoln has lost the last finish which it received. Surely no one who is not locally
sworn to the honor of York can doubt about preferring the noble central tower of Lincoln, soaring
still, even tho shorn of its spire. The eastern transept, again, is far more skilfully managed
at Lincoln than at York. It may well be doubted whether such a transept is really an improvement;
but if it is to be there at all, it is certainly better to make it the bold and important feature
which it is at Lincoln, than to leave it, as it is at York, half afraid, as it were, to proclaim
its own existence.

Coming to the east end, we again find, as at the west, Lincoln throwing away great advantages
by a perverse piece of sham. The east window of Lincoln is the very noblest specimen of the
pure and bold tracery of its own date. But it is crusht, as it were, by the huge gable window
above it--big enough to be the east window of a large church--and the aisles, whose east windows
are as good on their smaller scale as the great window, are absurdly finished with sham gables,
destroying the real and natural outline of the whole composition. At York we have no gables
at all; the vast east window, with its many flimsy mullions, is wonderful rather than beautiful;
still the east end of York is real, and so far it surpasses that of Lincoln.

On entering either of these noble churches, the great fault to be found is the lack of apparent
height. To some extent this is due to a cause common to both. We are convinced that both churches
are too long. The eastern part of Lincoln--the angels' choir--is in itself one of the loveliest
of human works; the proportion of the side elevations and the beauty of the details are both
simply perfect. But its addition has spoiled the minster as a whole. The vast length at one
unbroken height gives to the eastern view of the inside the effect of looking through a tube,
and the magnificent east window, when seen from the western part of the choir, is utterly dwarfed.
And the same arrangement is open to the further objection that it does not fall in with the
ecclestiastical arrangements of the building....

In the nave of York, looking eastward or westward, it is hard indeed to believe that we are
in a church only a few feet lower than Westminster or Saint Ouens. The height is utterly lost,
partly through the enormous width, partly through the low and crushing shape of the vaulting-arch.
The vault, it must be remembered, is an imitation of an imitation, a modern copy of a wooden
roof made to imitate stone. This imitation of stone construction in wood runs through the greater
part of the church; it comes out specially in the transepts, where a not very successful attempt
is made to bring the gable windows within the vault--the very opposite to the vast space lost
in the roofs at Lincoln. Yet with all this, many noble views may be got in York nave and transepts,
provided only the beholder takes care never to look due east or west. The western view is still
further injured by the treatment of the west window--in itself an admirable piece of tracery--which
fits into nothing, and seems cut through the wall at an arbitrary point. But the nave elevation,
taken bay by bay, is admirable. Looking across out of the aisle--the true way to judge--the
real height at last comes out, and we are reminded of some of the most stately minsters of
France....

DURHAM [Footnote: From "English Note Books."

ELY [Footnote: From "Old England: Its Scenery, Art, and People." Published by Houghton, Mifflin
Co.]

BY JAMES M. HOPPIN

I was attracted around by the way of Ely, to see the cathedral there, instead of taking the
Huntingdon route more directly to Cambridge. This was quite a loss, for Oliver Cromwell was
born in Huntingdon. Hinchinbroke House, the property of his family, now belongs to the Earl
of Sandwich.

But Ely Cathedral was not to be lost. It is frozen history as well as "frozen music." I value
these old structures because such wealth of English history is embodied in them; their human
interest, after all, is greater than their artistic. Ely is said to be derived from "willow,"
or a kind of willow or ozier island, upon which the abbey and town were built in the midst
of marshes. Among these impenetrable marshes Hereward the Saxon retreated; and here, too, we
have that bit of genuine antique poetry which from its simplicity must have described a true
scene; and we catch a glimpse of that pleasing and soothing picture, amid those rude and bloody
days, of King Canute and his knights resting for a moment upon their toiling oars to hear the
vesper song of the monks.

The foundation of the cathedral was laid in 1083, and it was finished in 1534. In printed lists
of its bishops, as in those of other English cathedral churches, I have noticed that they are
given in their chronological succession, right on, the bishops of the Reformed Church being
linked upon the Roman Catholic bishops. The bishopric of Ely was partially carved out of the
bishopric of Lincoln, and comprizes Cambridge in its jurisdiction. It has, therefore, had all
the riches, influence, taste, and learning of the University to bear upon the restoration of
its noble old cathedral; and of all the old churches of England this one exhibits indications
of the greatest modern care and thought bestowed upon it. It glows with new stained-glass windows,
splendid marbles, exquisite sculptures, and bronze work. Its western tower, 266 feet in height,
turreted spires, central octagon tower, flying buttresses, unequaled length of 517 feet, and
its vast, irregular bulk soaring above the insignificant little town at its foot, make it a
most commanding object seen from the flat plain.

What is called the octagon, which has taken the place of the central tower that had fallen,
is quite an original feature of the church. Eight arches, rising from eight ponderous piers,
form a windowed tower, or lantern, which lets in a flood of light upon the otherwise gloomy
interior. Above the keystone of each arch is the carved figure of a saint. The new brasses
of the choir are wonderfully elaborate. The bronze scroll and vine work of the gates and lamps,
for grace and Oriental luxuriance of fancy, for their arabesque and flower designs, might fitly
have belonged to King Solomon's Temple of old. The modern woodwork of the choir compares also
well with the ancient woodwork carving. Gold stars on azure ground, and all vivid coloring
and gilding, are freely used. The new "reredos," or altar screen, is one marvelous crystallization
of sculptures. The ancient Purbeck marble pillars have been scraped and re-polished, and form
a fine contrast to the white marbles on which they are set. If, indeed, one wishes to see what
modern enthusiasm, art, and lavish wealth can do for the restoration and adorning of one of
these old temples, he must go to Ely Cathedral.

SALISBURY [Footnote: From "English Note Books."

EXETER [Footnote: From "Cathedral Days." By arrangement with, and by permission of, the publishers,
Little, Brown & Co. Copyright, 1887.]

BY ANNA BOWMAN DODD

A very obvious part of the charm of Exeter Cathedral lies in the fact that it has to be sought
for. It is so well and dexterously concealed from view, as one passes along High Street, that
one might be some days in town without so much as suspecting that one of the finest cathedrals
in England was a near neighbor. It was almost by chance, I remember, that as we turned into
a long, quaint alley-way, filled up with little, low shops, we caught a glimpse of a green
plot of grass and some trees in the distance. Our guiding instinct divined these to be the
cathedral close....

To analyze the beauties of Exeter is only to add another note to one's joy in them, their quality
and rarity being of such an order as to warrant one's cooler admiration. The front is as unique
in design as it is architecturally beautiful. There is that rarest of features in English cathedrals--an
elaborately sculptured screen, thoroughly honest in construction. In originality of conception
this front is perhaps unrivalled, at least on English soil; there are three receding stories,
so admirably proportioned as to produce a beautiful effect in perspective. The glory of the
great west window is further enhanced by the graduated arcades which have the appearance of
receding behind it. Above the west window rises a second and smaller triangular window in the
gabled roof.

Thus the triangular motif is sustained throughout, from the three low doorways in the screen
up to the far-distant roof. This complete and harmonious front is nobly enriched by the splendid
note of contrast in the two transeptal Norman towers, whose massive structural elegance and
elaborateness of detail lend an extraordinary breadth and solidity to the edifice.

The grandeur which distinguishes the exterior is only a fitting preparation for the solemnity
and splendor of the interior. Passing beneath the thickly massed sculptures of the low portals,
the effect of the vastness of the nave is striking in its immensity. Curiously enough, in this
instance, this effect of immensity is not due to an unbroken stretch of nave-aisles or to a
lengthy procession of pier-arches, but to the magnificent sweep of the unencumbered vaulting
in the roof. An organ screen intercepts the line of vision at the entrance to the choir. This,
however, is the sole obstruction which the eye encounters. Above, the great roof, with its
unbroken 300 feet of interlacing lines, rises like some mighty forest, its airy loftiness giving
to the entire interior a certain open-air atmosphere of breadth and vastness....

What most deeply concerned us was the desire to secure an uninterrupted session of contemplative
enjoyment. We had lost our hearts to the beauty of the cathedral, and cared little or nothing
for a clever dissecting of its parts. We came again and again; and it was the glory of the
cathedral as a whole--its expressive, noble character, its breadth and grandeur, the poetry
of its dusky aisles, and the play of the rich shadows about its massive columns--that charmed
and enchained us. It was one of the few English cathedrals, we said to each other, that possess
the Old-World continental charm, the charm of perpetual entertainment, and whose beauty has
just the right quality of richness and completeness to evoke an intense and personal sympathy;
for in all the greatest triumphs of art there is something supremely human.

LICHFIELD [Footnote: From "Our Old Home."

WINCHESTER [Footnote: From "Visits to Remarkable Places."]

BY WILLIAM HOWITT

On entering the cathedral enclosure on its north side from High Street, you are at once struck
with the venerable majesty and antique beauty of the fine old pile before you, and with the
sacred quietude of the enclosure itself. In the heart of this tranquil city it has yet a deeper
tranquillity of its own. Its numerous tombs and headstones, scattered over its greensward,
and its lofty avenues of limetrees, seem to give you a peaceful welcome to the Christian fame
and resting-place of so many generations. If you enter at the central passage, you tread at
once on the eastern foundations of the Conqueror's palace, and pass close to the spot on which
formerly rose the western towers of Alfred's Newan Mynstre, and where lay his remains, after
having been removed from the old mynstre, till Hyde Abbey was built.

It is impossible to walk over this ground, now so peaceful, without calling to mind what scenes
of havoc and blood, of triumph and ecclesiastical pomp, it has witnessed--the butchery of the
persecution of Diocletian, when the Christians fell here by thousands; the repeated massacres
and conflagrations of the Danes; the crowning of Saxon and of English kings; the proud processions
of kings and queens, nobles, mitered prelates, friars, and monks, to offer thanksgivings for
victory, or penance for sins, from age to age; and, finally, the stern visitation of the Reformers
and the Cromwellian troopers.

The venerable minster itself bears on its aspect the testimonies of its own antiquity. The
short and massy tower in the center, the work of Bishop Walkelin, the cousin of the Conqueror,
has the very look of that distant age, and, to eyes accustomed to the lofty and rich towers
of some of our cathedrals, has an air of meanness. Many people tell you that it never was finished;
but besides that there is no more reason that the tower should remain unfinished through so
many centuries than any other part of the building, we know that it was the character of the
time, of which the tower of the Norman church of St. Cross affords another instance just at
hand. In fact, the spire was then unknown.

Having arrived at the west front, we can not avoid pausing to survey the beauty of its workmanship--that
of the great William of Wykeham; its great central doorway, with its two smaller side-doors;
the fretted gallery over it, where the bishop in his pontificals was wont to stand and bless
the people, or absolve them from the censures of the church; its noble window, rich with perpendicular
tracery; its two slender lantern turrets; its crowning tabernacle, with its statue of the builder;
and its pinnacled side aisles.

I must confess that of all the cathedrals which I have entered, none gave me such a sensation
of surprize and pleasure. The loftiness, the space, the vast length of the whole unbroken roof
above, I believe not exceeded by any other in England; the two rows of lofty clustered pillars;
the branching aisles, with their again branching and crossing tracery; the long line of the
vaulted roof, embossed with armorial escutcheons and religious devices of gorgeous coloring;
the richly painted windows; and, below, the carved chantries and mural monuments, seen amid
the tempered light; and the sober yet delicate hue of the Portland stone, with which the whole
noble fabric is lined, produce a tout ensemble of sublime loveliness which is not easily to
be rivaled....

But we have made the circuit of the church without beholding the choir, and we must not quit
its precincts without entering there. Ascending the flight of steps which lead to it, we front
that elegant screen with which modern good taste has replaced the screen of Inigo Jones, who,
blind to all the beauty of the Gothic architecture, not only placed here a Grecian screen,
but also affixt a Grecian bishop's throne to the beautiful Gothic canopy-work of the choir.
In the niches of this screen are two bronze statues of James I and Charles I.

We are now on the spot of the ancient rood-loft, where formerly stood the great rood, or crucifix,
with the attendant figures of the Virgin and St. John, of vast size and value, being of silver,
which were bequeathed to the minster by the notorious Archbishop Stigand, before the Conquest.
As we enter the choir through the door in the screen, we are struck with the great beauty of
the place. Around us rises the rich dark woodwork of the stalls, contrasting well with the
pale delicacy of the walls above. They are, indeed, emblazoned in the most gorgeous colors--scarlet,
blue and gold; and, to a fanciful eye, may resemble, many of them, huge sacred beetles of lordly
shapes and hues.

On each side rise up, into the very roof, the tall pointed windows glowing with figures of
saints, prophets, and apostles, who seem to be ranged on either hand, in audience of the divine
persons in the great east window--the Savior and the Virgin, with apostles and other saints.
But what is the most striking to the eye and mind of the spectator is to behold, on the floor
of the sanctuary before him, a plain beveled stone of dark marble--the tomb of William Rufus;
and arranged on the top of the beautiful stone partitions on each side of the sanctuary, dividing
it from the aisles, are six mortuary chests, three on a side, containing the bones of many
of the most eminent Saxon princes. The bones which, from the repeated rebuildings and alterings
of the cathedral, must have been in danger of being disturbed, and the places of their burial
rendered obscure, or lost altogether, Bishop de Blois, in the twelfth century, collected and
placed in coffins of lead over the Holy Hole. At the rebuilding of the choir, as it was necessary
again to remove them, Bishop Fox had them deposited in these chests, and placed in this situation.
The chests are carved, gilt, and surmounted with crowns, with the names and epitaphs, in Latin
verse and black letter, inscribed upon them.

But if we had quitted Winchester Cathedral without paying a visit to the grave of one of the
best and most cheerful-hearted old men who lie in it, we should have committed a great fault.
No, we stood on the stone in the floor of Prior Silkstede's chapel in the old Norman south
transept, which is inscribed with the name of Izaak Walton. There lies that prince of fishermen,
who, when Milner wrote his history of this city, was so little thought of that he is not once
mentioned in the whole huge quarto! It takes its name from the ancient well dedicated to St.
Andrew, which rises within the Episcopal grounds, and runs through the city down the sides
of the principal streets in clear, sparkling' streams.

There is no place which, taken altogether, preserves a more antique air of tranquil seclusion
than Wells. In the precincts of Chester Cathedral, and at many other points in England, there
broods the same antique calm, but here the whole place is pervaded by this reposeful spirit
of the past; and this culminates in the neighborhood of St. Andrew's Cathedral, the bishop's
palace, the old moat, the conventual buildings, and the three venerable gates, or "eyes," as
they are called, of the cathedral yard. The moat about the bishop's palace, overhung by a thick
curtain of aged elms mingled with ivy, growing like a warrior's crest upon the high-turreted
interior walls, and reflected in deep shadows in the smooth, dark mirror of the water, has
a thoroughly feudal look, which is heightened by the drawbridge over the moat, and the frowning
castellated gateway. How strange the state of society when a Christian bishop lived in such
jealously armed seclusion, behind moated walls and embattled towers! What a commentary, this
very name of "the close"! One of these old bishops was himself a famous fighting character,
who, at the age of sixty-four, commanded the king's artillery at the battle of Sedgmoor....

The Cathedral of St. Andrew was built upon the site of a still more ancient church founded
by Ina, king of the West Saxons in 704. It also goes back to a remote antiquity, for its choir
and nave were rebuilt in the middle of the twelfth century. The central tower, which is the
noblest and most finished part of the structure, is of the early English style to the roof;
the upper part is of the Decorated, with a mixture of the early Perpendicular styles. It has
an elegant appearance from its rich pinnacles, and is of a softened and gray tint. Beginning
to show signs of sinking, it was raised in the fourteenth century, and was strengthened by
the introduction beneath it of inverted buttressing-arches, which give to the interior a strange
effect. These arches, architecturally considered, are undoubtedly blemishes, but they are on
such a vast scale, and so bold in their forms, and yet so simple, that they do not take away
from the plain grandeur of the interior. They are quite Oriental or Saracenic. The top of the
eastern window is seen bright and glowing over the lower part of the upper arch. The west front,
235 feet in length, has two square towers, with a central screen terminated by minarets, and
is divided into distinct compartments of eight projecting buttresses; all of these projections
and recessed parts are covered with rich sculpture and statuary, of which there are 153 figures
of life-size, and more than 450 smaller figures....

The other most striking features of Wells Cathedral are the Chapter House and the Ladye Chapel.
The first of these, on the rear of the church, is an otagonal structure with pinnacled buttresses
at each angle. It is approached from the interior by a worn staircase of 20 steps of noble
architectural design. Among the grotesque carvings that line the staircase, I remember in particular
one queer old figure with a staff, or rather crutch, thrust in a dragon's mouth, supporting
a column. While thus holding up the cathedral with its head and hand above, and choking a writhing
dragon beneath, he looks smiling and unconcerned, as if it were an everyday affair with him,
as indeed it is. The whole church abounds in these old sculptures, little demoniac figures
with big heads, faces with enormous fish mouths, old men with packs on their backs, and angels
with huge armfuls of flowers. They seem to let one into the interior chambers of fancy, the
imaginative workings of the human mind in the middle ages....

Wells Cathedral, on the whole, is distinguished for a dignified but rich simplicity, arising
from its plain large surfaces, mingled and edged here and there with fine-cut and elegant ornamentation.
The court and buildings of the Wells Theological College have a thoroughly quaint, old-fashioned
look, quiet, rigid, and medieval; as if the students reared there could not but be Churchmen
of the "Brother Ignatius" stamp, gentlemen, scholars, and--priests. I can not leave Wells without
speaking of the two splendid "cedars of Lebanon" standing in the environs of the church. They
are not very tall, but they sweep the ground majestically, and grow in a series of broad, heavy
masses of foliage, gracefully undulating in their outline.

BURY ST. EDMUNDS [Footnote: From "The Abbeys of Great Britain."]

BY H. CLAIBORNE DIXON

The history of the Abbey of Bury St. Edmunds, altho veiled in much legendary and mythical lore,
tells, nevertheless, in its actual history of the progress of civilization and of the enlightenment
of the human mind. Sigberet, King of the East Angles, is said to have founded the first monastery
at Beodericsworth (a town known to the Romans, ancient Britains, Saxons, and Danes), and to
have subsequently laid aside his royal dignity by joining the brotherhood which he had established.
Following his example of religious devotion, Edmund, last King of the Angles, sacrificed not
only his crown but his life in defense of the Christian faith, for he was beheaded by the Danes
at Eglesdene in 870....

His head was cast into a forest, and, as the story goes, was miraculously discovered and found
to be guarded by a wolf. It was then buried with the body at the village of Hoxne, where it
remained until 903. In this year, "the precious, undefiled, uncorrupted body of the glorious
king and martyr" was translated to the care of the secular priests at Beodericsworth, since
when the town has been called St. Edmundsbury, in memory of the sainted monarch. Other wonderful
traditions are associated with the shrine of St. Edmund. Sweyn, the violent Danish king, coming
in hot pursuit of a woman who had claimed sanctuary, was miraculously killed by an imaginary
spear which came out of the shrine when he was about to seize the woman who was clinging to
its side. Bishop Herfastus, too, was struck blind, when on a visit to the abbot, in the attempt
to establish his new see in the monastical demesne, and afterward miraculously healed. For
centuries the highest in the land brought gifts and laid them before the venerated shrine.

Canute was the actual founder of the monastery proper, for in the eleventh century he brought
over Benedictine monks from Hulm, granting them a charter and many benefactions. The monastery
yearly became more prosperous, and, with the exception of Glastonbury, exceeded in magnificence
and privileges all other ecclestiastical establishments in the country. In the height of its
glory it must have been a most beautiful and dignified structure. Leland writes:

"A monastery more noble, whether one considers the endowments, largeness, or unparalleled magnificence,
the sun never saw. One might think the monastery alone a city: it has three grand gates for
entrances, some whereof are brass, many towers, high walls, and a church than which nothing
can be more magnificent."

The immense minster, with its lofty western and central towers, rose above the monastic buildings,
which were enclosed by a wall. To the north was a great cloister, with the various conventual
offices, to the southwest lay the cemetery and church of St. Mary, while immediately before
the west front of the church stood the Norman tower leading to St. James's Church.

Sufficient is left of the reverend walls to convey some idea of the former vastness of the
abbey and its attendant buildings. Of the minster itself little remains--some arches of the
west front, now converted into private houses, and the bases of the piers which supported the
central tower. The site of St. Edmunds' Chapel--the part of the building which contained the
famous and much-visited shrine--is at the east end of the church. Besides these relics of the
minster, there still exists the Norman tower--built during the time of Abbot Anselm, and formerly
known as the principal entrance to the cemetery of St. Edmund, and latterly as the "Churchgate"
and bell tower of St. James's Church--the abbot's bridge (Decorated) of three arches; portions
of the walls, and the abbey gateway....

First among the abbots of Bury stands the name of Samson, "the wolf who raged among the monks."
Many of the brothers had become entangled with Jewish money-lenders in the twelfth century,
and Abbot Samson, while protecting the Jews at the time of the massacre, discharged all the
debts of his house, established many new rules, and set a godly and strenuous example to his
followers. Later, in 1205, the chief barons met at Bury in opposition to King John, and swore
at the second meeting, four years later, in the presence of the king and Archbishop Langton,
to stand by their cause till the king should be induced to sign the Great Charter, and to establish
those liberties which we still enjoy.

GLASTONBURY [Footnote: From "The Abbeys of Great Britain."]

BY H. CLAIBORNE DIXON

Tho once surrounded by fenland, the Abbey of Glastonbury--a veritable treasure-house of legendary
lore--stands now amid orchards and level pasture lands engirt by the river Bure. The majestic
Tor overshadows this spot, where, undoubtedly, the first British Christian settlement was established.
The name of the new builder of the first early church can never be ascertained, so that in
want of more substantial evidence the old legend of St. Joseph of Arimathaea must be accepted,
however slight its claims to historical authority. Certain it is that Christianity was introduced
into this land on the island of Yniswytryn, or "Isle of Glass" (so called on account of its
crystal streams), in the very early centuries.

According to the Arthurian legends, St. Philip, Lazarus, Martha, Mary and Joseph of Arimathaea,
having been banished by their countrymen, journeyed to Marseilles, from whence Joseph, with
twelve companions and holy women, was sent by St. Philip to Britain. They landed on the southwest
coast and made their way to Glastonbury, then Avalon (and so named in allusion to its apple
orchards), and by means of preaching and many miraculous deeds persuaded the people to adopt
Christianity. Gaining the good will of King Arviragus, they built a church of wattle and twigs
on the ground given to them by their royal patron. The Benedictine, with its later developments
in Norman times of Augustine and Cluniac orders, was the first religious order introduced into
this country. It was instituted in Italy early in the sixth century by St. Benedict of Nursia.
Many monasteries established before the Conquest came under its sway, and were, centuries later,
after the Dissolution, converted into cathedral churches.

A sharp distinction should be drawn between the monasteries established previous to the Conquest
and those subsequently founded by the Cistercian and other orders. The former were national
houses--in every way belonging to the English people and untouched by Papal influence; while
the latter, which were under the immediate control of the Bishop of Rome, were essentially
of foreign foundation....

King Ina, persuaded by St. Aldhelm, rebuilt and reendowed the abbey in the eighth century,
renounced his royal state, and lived as an ordinary civilian, being induced to do so by extraordinary
devices on the part of his wife Ethelburgh. On one occasion, after King Ina had given a great
feast to his barons, he and his queen left the castle and proceeded to another of the royal
residences. Before leaving, Ethelburgh had commanded the servants to strip the castle of all
its valuables, furniture, etc., and to fill it with rubbish, and to put a litter of pigs in
the king's bed. A short distance on their journey, Ethelburgh persuaded the king to return,
and, showing him over the desecrated palace, exhorted him to consider the utter worthlessness
of all earthly splendor and the advisability of joining her on a pilgrimage to Rome. Imprest
by her words, Ina acted as she advised, and later endowed a school in Rome in which Anglo-Saxon
children might become acquainted with the customs of foreign countries. Ina and Ethelburgh
spent the remainder of their days in privacy in the Holy City.

The famous Dunstau, one of the greatest of ecclesiastical statesmen, was born in Glastonbury,
and, after proving his many marvelous capabilities and aptitude for learning, was made abbot
of the Benedictine house in his native town in the reign of Edmund the Magnificent. Many strange
stories are told of him--the most fantastic, perhaps, being that of his interview with the
natural enemy of man, the Devil himself, during which the reverend man became either so irritated
or terrified that he was provoked to seize the nose of his ghostly visitor with a pair of red-hot
pincers....

The fame belonging to this noble foundation exceeded that of any other great building in England.
An old writer tells us, "Kings and queens, not only of the West Saxons, but of other kingdoms;
several archbishops and bishops; many dukes; and the nobility of both sexes thought themselves
happy in increasing the revenues of this venerable house, to ensure themselves a place of burial
therein." The story of the burial of St. Joseph of Arimathaea at Glastonbury, to us a mere
shadowy legend, was accepted as a fact in the early English ages, and that it figured in the
mind of these worthies as endowing Glastonbury with extraordinary sanctity is beyond doubt.

At the time of the Dissolution no corruption whatever was revealed at Glastonbury, nor any
blame recorded against its management. It was still doing splendid work, having daily services
and extending its educational influence for miles around. There was but scanty comfort for
its inmates, who rested on a straw mattress and bolster on their narrow bedstead in a bare
cell, and whose food, duties and discipline were marked by an austere simplicity. Nor were
they idle, these monks of Glastonbury--some taught in the abbey school, others toiled in the
orchards, and the beauty of the stained glass, designed within the abbey walls, found fame
far and wide.

Richard Whiting was Abbot of Glastonbury when, in 1539, Henry VIII. ordered inquiries to be
made into the condition and property of the abbey. Altho he recognized the monarch as supreme
head of the church, he respected the Glastonbury traditions and met the "visitors" in a spirit
of passive resistance. With the object of preserving them from desecration, the abbot had concealed
some of the communion vessels, and for this offense the venerable man was tried and condemned
to death. His head, white with the touch of eighty years, was fixt upon the abbey gate, and
the rest of his body quartered and sent to Bath, Wells, Bridgwater, and Ilchester. The abbey
building--one of the most perfect examples of architecture in the land--served as a stone quarry,
much of the material being used to make a road over the fenland from Glastonbury to Wells.
The revenue at the time of the Dissolution was over £3,000, a big income in those days.

TINTERN [Footnote: From "The Abbeys of Great Britain."]

BY H. CLAIBORNE DIXON

More than one great artist has immortalized the secluded vale, where, on a bend of the Wye
and surrounded by wooded hills, the ruins of Tintern Abbey stand. The somber-looking heights,
which close in to the east and west, create the atmosphere of loneliness and separation from
the world so sought after by the Cistercian monks, who doubtless found inspiration in the grandeur
of the surrounding mountains and in the peacefulness of the sweet valley below. Tho the church
of the Early English abbey is roofless and the central tower gone, the noble structure, with
its many graceful arches, seems to attest to the spirit of religious fervor and devotion so
intimately associated with the history of its gray and lichen-covered walls.

The finest part of the ruins is undoubtedly the church, which, with the exception of the roof
and the north piers of the nave, still stands complete. It has a nave of six bays with aisles,
a choir of four bays with aisles, the transepts with eastern aisles having two chapels. A transverse
Galilee stood formerly beyond the western entrance. In the north transept are remains of the
dormitory stairs, and on this side the cloisters, too, were situated. The aumbry, parlor, sacristy,
chapterhouse, slype to the infirmary, day-stairs to dormitory and undercroft were on the east
side of the cloisters; the postern and river gate, over which was the abbot's lodge on the
north side, and also the buttery, refectory, and kitchen. The delicacy of design and execution
to be seen in the ruins is unrivaled in the kingdom--the tracery of the windows being particularly
fine. The ruined church possesses the grace and lightness of architecture peculiar to the twelfth
century, and is, even in its decay, of truly sublime and grand proportions. Time has been unable
to obliterate the skilful work of our forefathers, for the Early English transition arches,
the delicate molding, and the exquisite stone tracery in the windows still delight the eye.
The history of Tintern is almost a hidden page in the chronicles of time. On the surrender
of Raglan Castle to the Cromwellian troops by the Marquis of Worcester, the castle was razed
to the ground, and with it were lost the abbey records, which had been taken from Tintern when
the abbey was granted to the Marquis's ancestor by Henry VIII. It is known, however, that the
first foundation on the site was in the hands of a cousin of William the Conqueror, Richard
Bienfaite by name. He founded the abbey in 1131, and was succeeded by his nephew, Gilbert "Strongbow."
His granddaughter Isabel married the then Earl of Pembroke, and her daughter, marrying Hugh
Bigod, brought the estates to the ducal house of Norfolk.

III

CASTLES AND STATELY HOMES

LIVING IN GREAT HOUSES [Footnote: From "England Without and Within." By arrangement with, and
by permission of, the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co. Copyright, 1881.]

BY RICHARD GRANT WHITE

Now I will tell you a little--it can be but a little--about life in the "great houses," as
they are called here. When you are asked to come to one, a train is suggested, and you are
told that a carriage will be at the station to meet you. Somehow the footman manages to find
you out. At ---- which is a little station at which few people get out, I had hardly left the
train when a very respectable-looking person, not a footman, stept up to me and said, "Lord
----'s carriage is waiting for you, sir." The carriage and the footman and coachman were, of
course, on the other side of the building. My drive from the station to ---- took quite as
long a time as it took me to come down by rail from London, altho we went at a grand trot.
The country was beautiful, stretching off on both sides in broad fields and meadows, darkened
in lines by hedges, and in spots by clumps of trees. The roads were very narrow--they seemed
rather like lanes--and this effect was increased by the high walls and hedges on either side.
Two carriages had hardly room to pass in some places, with careful driving. Being in Lord ----'s
well-known carriage, I was quite in state, and the country folk, most of them, bowed to me
as I went on; and of course I followed the apostolic injunction, and condescended unto men
of low estate.

And, by the way, yesterday afternoon (for a day has passed since I began this letter, and I
am now at ----) Lady ---- drove me through their park and off to ----, the dowager Lady ----'s
jointure house, and I had the honor of acknowledging for her all the numerous bobs and ducks
she received from the tenants and their children. So, you see, I shall be in good training
when I come into my estate. When and where I entered the park, either here or at ----, I could
not exactly make out. There were gates and gates, and the private grounds seemed to shade off
gradually into the public. I know that the park extended far beyond the lodge. The house at
---- is very ugly. It was built by Inigo Jones, and, never handsome, was altogether spoiled
by tasteless alterations in the last century. The ugliness of English country houses built
at that time is quite inexpressible.

I ought to have said that the ----s are in mourning;... and it was very kind of them to invite
me. I was met at the door by a dignified personage in black, who asked me if I would go up
to Lady ----'s room. She welcomed me warmly, said that Lord ---- had been called away for a
few hours, and offered me tea from a tiny table at her side. And, by the way, you are usually
asked to come at a time which brings you to five-o'clock tea. This gives you an opportunity
to rub off the rough edge of strangeness, before you dress for dinner. Lady ----'s own room
was large and hung with tapestry, and yet it was cosy and homelike. The hall is large and square,
and the walls are covered with old arms. The staircase is good, but not so grand as others
that I have seen; that at ----, for instance, where there was an oriel window on the first
landing. This one has no landing; it is of polished oak, but is carpeted.

Lady ---- is a very attractive and elegant woman, sensible, sensitive, and with a soft, gentle
way of speech and action, which is all the more charming, as she is tall. Her tea was good.
She talked well, and we got on together very satisfactorily. Presently a nurse brought in her
two little daughters. I thought she must have approved of her savage Yankee guest; for she
encouraged them to come to me and sit upon my knees; and all mothers are shy about that. Soon
in popped Lord ----, and gave me the heartiest welcome that I have received since I have been
in England. He has altered somewhat since he was in New York; is grown a little stouter, and
a very little graver, but is just the same frank, simple fellow as when you saw him. About
seven o'clock I was asked if I would like to go up to my room. He went with me,--an attention
which I found general; and "directly he had left me," according to the phrase here, a very
fine-mannered person, in a dress coat and a white tie, appeared, and asked me for my keys.

I apprehended the situation at once, and submitted to his ministrations. He did everything
for me except actually to wash my face and hands and put on my clothes. He laid everything
that I could need, opened and laid out my dressing-case, and actually turned my stocking's.
Dinner at eight. I take in Lady ----. Butler, a very solemn personage, but not stout nor red-faced.
I have seen no stout, red-faced butler since I have been in England. Dining room large and
handsome. Some good portraits. Gas in globes at the walls; candles on the table. Dinner very
good, of course. Menu written in pencil on a porcelain card, with the formula in gilt and a
coronet. Indeed, the very cans that came up to my bedroom with hot water were marked with coronet
and cipher. I was inclined to scoff at this, at first, as ostentatious; but after all, as the
things were to be marked, how could it be done better?

After dinner, a very pleasant chat in the drawing-room until about eleven o'clock, when Lord
---- sent Lady ---- to bed. She shakes hands on bidding me good-night, and asks if half-past
nine o'clock is too early for breakfast for me. I was tempted to say that it was, and to ask
if it couldn't be postponed till ten; but I didn't. The drawing-room, by the way, altho it
was handsome and cheerful, was far inferior in its show to a thousand that might be found in
New York, many of which, too, are quite equal to it in comfort and in tasteful adornment. Lord
---- and I sit up awhile and chat about old times and the shooting on Long Island, and when
I go to my room I find that, altho I am to stay but two days, my trunk has been unpacked and
all my clothes put into the wardrobe and the drawers, and most carefully arranged, as if I
were going to stay a month. My morning dress has been taken away.

In the morning the same servant comes, opens my window, draws my bed curtain, prepares my bath,
turns my stockings, and in fact does everything but actually bathe and dress me, and all with
a very pleasant and cheerful attentiveness. At a quarter past nine the gong rings for prayers.
These are generally read by the master of the household in the dining-room, with the breakfast
table laid; but here in a morning-room. After breakfast you are left very much to yourself.
Business and household affairs are looked after by your host and hostess; and you go where
you please and do what you like.

On Sunday I of course went to church with the family: a charming old church; tower of the time
of Edward III.; some fine old monuments. We merely walked through the park a distance of about
the width of Washington Square, passed through a little door in the park wall, and there was
the church just opposite. It was Harvest Thanksgiving day, a festival recently introduced in
England, in imitation of that which has come down to us from our Puritan forefathers. There
was a special service; and the church was very prettily drest with oats, flowers, grass, and
grapes, the last being substituted for hops, as it was too late for them. The offerings were
for the Bulgarians; for everything now in England is tinged with the hue of "Turkish horrors."

After service Lord ---- took me to the chantry, where the tombs of the family are. It was to
show me a famous statue, that of a Lady ---- and her baby, at the birth of which she died,
it dying soon, too. The statue is very beautiful, and is the most purely and sweetly pathetic
work in sculpture that I ever saw. It had a special interest for me because I remembered reading
about it in my boyhood; but I had forgotten the name of the subject, and I had no thought of
finding it here in a little country church.

BLENHEIM [Footnote: From "Famous Homes of Great Britain and Their Stories." A.H. Malan, Editor.
By arrangement with the publishers, G.P. Putnam's Sons. Copyright, 1899.]

BY THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH.

The architecture of the house itself clearly indicates the taste and training of its builder.
Vanbrugh shared the enthusiasm of the day for classical work, as understood and developed,
whether well or ill, by the Italians of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries; but with characteristic
disregard of law, he thought to combine classical severity with the fancifulness natural in
a northerner and a playwright. Thus, while the general scheme of the south front, for instance,
is distinctly severe, the massive towers at its ends are surmounted by fantastic masses of
open stone-work, most quaintly finished off with arrangements of cannon-balls and coronets.
Throughout he repeatedly made use of classical members with strange disregard to their structural
intention. Silvester, the French artist employed to make designs for the decoration of the
salon, sniffed contemptuously at Vanbrugh's Gothic tendencies. "I can not approve of that double
line of niches. It suggests the façade of a Gothic church." And then with savage delight he
announced his discovery that much of the design was merely an unintelligent imitation of the
Palazzo Farnese at Florence.

Certainly, in spite of Vanbrugh's attempt to achieve at once dignity and lightness, the probable
impression made by the building on the casual observer is, that it is ponderous without being
stately, and irregular without being tasteful. But the final feeling of any one whose fate
it is to study it at leisure will assuredly be one of respect, even of enthusiasm, for the
ability of Vanbrugh. It takes time to realize the boldness of the general design and the solidity
of the masonry. In many parts there are about as many feet of solid stone as a modern architect
would put inches of lath and plaster. The negative qualities of integrity and thoroughness
are rare enough in work of the present day, now that the architect has delegated to the contractor
the execution of his design.

The interior proportions of the rooms are generally admirable, and so perfectly was the work
carried out that it is possible to look through the keyholes of ten doors, and see daylight
at the end, over three hundred feet off. It is noticeable, further, that the whole was designed
by a single man, there being no subsequent additions, as there are, for instance, at Chatsworth
and Wentworth. Vanbrugh is responsible for good and bad qualities alike. One would imagine
a priori that he had everything in his favor--unlimited money and a free hand. Far from this
being the case, the stupendous work was accomplished under difficulties greater than any long-suffering
architect ever had to contend with.

The beginning of the building was most auspicious. In 1705, the year after Blenheim, Queen
Anne, in accordance with an address of the Commons, granted Marlborough the royal estate of
which Woodstock was the center, with moneys to build a suitable house. The nation was anxious
to show its gratitude to the General under whom English troops had won their first considerable
victory on foreign soil since Agincourt; the Queen was for doing all in her power for her dear
Mrs. Freeman; Marlborough saw in the scheme a dignified and legitimate method of perpetuating
his fame; and so Vanbrugh was commissioned to build a house which should be worthy of all three.
The work was at once begun on the existing scale. Difficulties sprang up when the Duchess began
to lose, by her abuse of it, the power which she had always possessed over the Queen; when,
too, it was seen that the architect's estimate bore no sort of relation to the actual cost.
Vanbrugh was often in the greatest straits for money, and wrote piteously to the Duchess and
the Lord Treasurer Godolphin without the slightest effect. Things naturally grew worse when
both the Duke and Duchess were dismissed from all their posts, in 1711; and at last, in 1721,
the disputes culminated in a lawsuit successfully brought against the Duke by the workmen for
arrears of pay, the defendant's contention being that the Treasury was liable for the whole
expense. The Duchess vented her displeasure on the unfortunate architect, whom she never credited
with doing anything right. She carefully kept his letters, and made spiteful endorsements on
them for the benefit of her counsel at the trial.

While Sarah was perpetually involving herself in quarrels with her architect, the Duke was
indirectly furthering the progress of the building by a succession of victories abroad. Without
taking an active part, he was yet much interested in the house, always looking forward to the
time when he should live there in peace with his wife. When on a campaign he wrote to her nearly
every other day, and in almost every letter there is a personal touch, showing his ever-present
love for her, his keen anxiety to keep her love, and to win her approval of everything he did.

The main interest of Marlborough's later life centered in Blenheim. The Duchess had done the
lion's share of the work of superintendence; it remained for him to arrange the many works
of art he had bought and had been given during the war. There still exists an account of the
prices he paid for tapestries made in Brussels, most of which are now on the walls of the house.
Over the south front was placed a bust of Louis XIV., a trophy taken from the gates of Tournay....

Changes of fashion and of taste have left their mark on Blenheim; and, as the old oaks recall
the joyousness of the Middle Ages, and the elms and cedars have a certain air of eighteenth-century
stateliness, so perhaps the orchids, with their exotic delicacy, may be held typical of the
decadent present. From the house many treasures, once part of its adornment, are now missed;
and while books, pictures, and gems have disappeared, modern ideas of comfort have suggested
the insertion of electric lights and telephones. To regret the treasures of the past is a commonplace;
it would seem fitter to make the best of the advantages of the present.

KENILWORTH [Footnote: From Scott's "Kenilworth." Kenilworth is now the most stately ruined
castle in England. Its destruction dates from the Civil War, when it was dismantled by soldiers
under Cromwell. Then it was allowed to decay.

ALNWICK [Footnote: From "Visits to Remarkable Places."]

BY WILLIAM HOWITT

A visit to Alnwick is like going back into the old feudal times. The town still retains the
moderate dimensions and the quiet air of one that has grown up under the protection of the
castle, and of the great family of the castle. Other towns, that arose under the same circumstances,
have caught the impulse of modern commerce and manufacture, and have grown into huge, bustling,
and noisy cities, in which the old fortified walls and the old castle have either vanished,
or have been swallowed up, and stand, as if in superannuated wonder, amid a race and a wilderness
of buildings, with which they have nothing in common. When, however, you enter Alnwick, you
still feel that you are entering a feudal place. It is as the abode of the Percys has presented
itself to your imagination. It is still, quaint, gray, and old-worldish....

In fact, the whole situation is fine, without being highly romantic, and worthy of its superb
old fabric. In the castle itself, without and within, I never saw one on English ground that
more delighted me; because it more completely came up to the beau ideal of the feudal baronial
mansion, and especially of that of the Percys, the great chieftains of the British Border--the
heroes of Otterburn and Chevy Chase.

Nothing can be more striking than the effect at first entering within the walls from the town;
when, through a dark gloomy gateway of considerable length and depth, the eye suddenly emerges
into one of the most splendid scenes that can be imagined; and is presented at once with the
great body of the inner castle, surrounded with fair semi-circular towers, finely swelling
to the eye, and gaily adorned with pinnacles, battlements, etc. The impression is still further
strengthened by the successive entrances into the second and third courts, through great massy
towers, till you are landed in the inner court, in the very center of this great citadel.

An idea may be formed of the scale of this brave castle, when we state that it includes, within
its outer walls, about five acres of ground; and that its walls are flanked with sixteen towers,
which now afford a complete set of offices to the castle, and many of them retain not only
their ancient names, but also their original uses.

The castle courts, except the center one, are beautifully carpeted with green turf, which gives
them a very pleasant aspect. In the center of the second court is a lion with his paw on a
ball, a copy of one of the lions of St. Mark at Venice....

The inner court is square, with the corners taken off; and on the wall opposite to the entrance
are medallion portraits of the first Duke and Duchess. Near the gateway appear the old wheels
and axle which worked the great well, over which is the figure of a pilgrim blessing the waters.
Within the gateway you enter an octagon tower, where the old dungeon still remains in the floor,
covered with its iron grate. It is eleven feet deep, by nine feet eight inches and a half square
at the bottom. In the court are two other dungeons, now or formerly used for a force-pump to
throw water up to the top of the castle; and one now not used at all--which could all be so
closed down as to exclude the prisoners from both sound and light....

Having wandered thus around this noble pile, it is time to enter it. Of the interior, however,
I shall not say much more than that it is at once a fitting modern residence for a nobleman
of the high rank and ancient descent of the proprietor, and in admirable keeping with its exterior.
The rooms are fitted up with light Gothic tracery on the walls, very chaste and elegant; and
the colors are so delicate and subdued, that you are not offended with that feeling of over-fineness
that is felt at Raby.

You ascend by a noble staircase, surrounded with armorial escutcheons instead of a cornice,
to a suite of very spacious and handsome rooms, of which the principal are the saloon, dining-room,
breakfast-room, library, and chapel. The ceilings are finely worked into compartments with
escutcheons and pendants. The walls of the saloon are covered with crimson silk, sprigged with
yellow flowers; those of the dining-room, with pale buff, and white moldings, rich tracery
and elegant compartmented ceiling. In the center of some of the arches you see the crescent,
the crest of the Percys.

On the whole, it is a noble and highly satisfactory mansion; but still it is when you get without
again that you feel the real antiquity and proud dignity of the place. The fame of the Percy
and the Douglas seems to be whispered by every wind that plays around those old towers.

HAMPTON COURT [Footnote: From "Visits to Remarkable Places."]

BY WILLIAM HOWITT

To the visitors of cultivated taste and historic knowledge, Hampton Court abounds with subjects
of reflective interest of the highest order. It is true, that, compared with some of our palaces,
it can lay no claims to antiquity; but from the days of Henry VIII. to those of George III.,
there are few of them that have witnessed more singular or momentous events.

Overbearing despot as Wolsey [who built it] was, there is something magnificent in the sweep
of his ambition, and irresistibly interesting in the greatness of his fall. He was the last
of those haughty prelates in the good old Catholic times who rose up from the dust of insignificance
into the most lordly and overgrown magnificence; outdoing monarchs in the number of their servants,
and in the pomp of their state. Equaling the great Cardinals who have figured on the Continent,
Ximenes, Richelieu, Mazarin, and De Retz, in political ability and personal ambition, he exceeded
all in the wealth which he unhesitatingly seized, and the princely splendor in which he lived.

When we enter, therefore, the gates of Hampton Court, and are struck with the magnificent extent
of the erection, which at that time not only, according to Rapin, "was a stately palace, and
outshined all the king's houses," but was one of the most splendid structures in Europe, we
can not help figuring to ourselves the proud Cardinal surveying its progress, and musing over
the wonders of that career which had brought him, if not from the humble estate of the son
of a butcher, yet from an origin of no great condition, or it could not have remained dubious
to this period--the wealthiest man in Europe, the most potent in political influence, and the
ardent aspirant to the Popedom itself....

It was only at Hampton Court that his vast train of servants and attendants, with the nobility
and ambassadors who flocked about him, could be fully entertained. These, as we learn from
his gentleman-usher, Cavendish, were little short of a thousand persons; for there were upon
his "cheine roll" eight hundred persons belonging to his household, independent of suitors,
who were all entertained in the hall. In this hall he had daily spread three tables. At the
head of the first presided a priest, a steward; at that of the second a knight, as treasurer;
and at the third his comptroller, who was an esquire.... Besides these, there was always a
doctor, a confessor, two almoners, three marshals, three ushers of the hall, and groom. The
furnishing of these tables required a proportionate kitchen; and here were two clerks, a clerk-comptroller,
and surveyor of the dressers; a clerk of the spicery; two cooks, with laborers and children
for assistants: turnspits a dozen; four scullery-men; two yeomen of the pastry, and two paste-layers.
In his own kitchen was his master-cook, daily drest in velvet or satin, and wearing a gold chain.

There were the dean and sub-dean of his chapel; the repeater of the choir; the gospeler, the
epistler, or the singing priest; the master of the singers, with his men and children. In the
vestry were a yeoman and two grooms. In the procession were commonly seen forty priests, all
in rich copes and other vestments of white satin, or scarlet, or crimson. The altar was covered
with massy plate, and blazed with jewels and precious stones. But if such were his general
establishment, not less was the array of those who attended on his person. In his privy chamber
he had his chief chamberlain, vice-chamberlain, and two gentlemen-ushers. Six gentlemen-waiters
and twelve yeomen; and at their head nine or ten lords to attend on him, each with their two
or three servants, and some more, to wait on them, the Earl of Derby having five. Three gentlemen-cupbearers,
gentlemen-carvers, and servers to the amount of forty in the great and the privy chamber; six
gentlemen-ushers and eight grooms. Attending on his table were twelve doctors and chaplains,
clerk of the closet, two clerks of the signet, four counsellors learned in the law, and two
secretaries.

He had his riding-clerk; clerk of the crown; clerk of the hamper and chaffer; clerk of the
cheque for the chaplains; clerk for the yeomen of the chamber; and "fourteen footmen garnished
with rich running-coates, whensoever he had any journey;" besides these, a herald-at-arms,
sergeant-at-arms, a physician, an apothecary, four minstrels, a keeper of the tents, an armorer;
an instructor of his wards in chancery; "an instructor of his wardrop of roabes;" a keeper
of his chamber; a surveyor of York, and clerk of the green cloth....

I am afraid the story of Henry VIII. coming to see this splendid palace on its first being
built, and saying in a jealous surprize, "My Lord Cardinal, is this a dwelling for a subject?"
and the courtly Cardinal replying, "My gracious liege, it is not intended for a subject; it
is meant only for the greatest and most bounteous king in Christendom," is too good to be true;
for altho Wolsey did give up this favorite palace to his royal master, it was long afterward,
and only on the palpable outbreak of his displeasure, as a most persuasive peace-offering;
an offering which, tho especially acceptable, failed nevertheless to ensure lasting peace.
The sun of the great Cardinal was already in its decline....

Henry VIII. used to keep his court here frequently in great state, and here he used to celebrate
Christmas in all its ancient festivity. Here he lost his third wife, Jane Seymour, a few days
after the birth of his son Edward VI., and felt or affected much grief on that account, perhaps
because he had not had the pleasure of cutting off her head. Here he married his sixth wife,
Lady Catherine Parr, widow of Neville, Lord Latimer, and sister of the Marquis of Northampton.
This lady, who had the hardihood to marry this royal Bluebeard, after he had divorced two wives
and chopped off the heads of two others, narrowly escaped the fate she so rashly hazarded.
The very warrant for her committal to the Tower, whence she was only to be brought forth to
be burned at the stake for heresy, was signed, and on the point of execution, when she accidentally
became aware of it, and managed to soothe the ferocious tyrant by the most artful submission
to his conceit of his theological learning, and by rubbing his ulcerated leg.

Here, as we have said, Edward VI. was born; and three days after he was baptized in the king's
chapel in the palace in great state--Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury, and the Duke of Norfolk,
being god-fathers. Hampton Court was appropriated by the guardians of Edward as his residence,
and he was residing here when the council rose against the authority of the Protector Somerset,
and was removed by him hence to Windsor Castle, lest the council should obtain possession of
his person. Here Bloody Mary, and her husband, Philip of Spain, passed their honeymoon in great
retirement; and here--when they were desirous of effacing from the mind of their sister, the
Princess Elizabeth, the recollection of her imprisonment at Woodstock, and the vain attempts
of their arch-rascal priest Stephen Gardiner, Lord Chancellor and Bishop of Winchester, to
coerce her into popery, or to convict her of heresy, and probably bring her to the flaming
stake--they invited her to spend some time with them, and set on foot banquets, maskings, and
all sorts of revelries.

Here they kept Christmas with her as royally as the father, Henry VIII., had kept it in his
day; Elizabeth being seated at the royal table with their majesties, next the cloth of state,
and, at the removal of the dishes, served with a perfumed napkin and plate of confect by the
Lord Paget. Here, too, during her stay, they gave a grand tournament, wherein two hundred spears
were broken by contending knights. Here Elizabeth also, when she was become the potent queen
instead of the jealously-watched sister, continued occasionally to assemble her brilliant court,
and to hold merry Christmas, as Mary, Edward, and her father had done before. Here also the
especial festivals of the Christmases of 1572 and 1593 were kept by her....

The entrance to the portion of the palace built by Wolsey is by a sort of outer court of great
extent, the gates of which have their pillars surmounted by a large lion and unicorn as supporters
of the crown royal, and each of the side gates by a military trophy. Along the left side of
the area are barracks and such offices; the greater part of the right side is open toward the
river, and there stand nine as lofty and noble elms, in a row, as perhaps any part of England
can match. Two gateways are before you; the one to the left leading to the kitchen-court, the
center one to the first quadrangle. This chief gateway has been restored, in excellent keeping
with the old building, and has a noble aspect as you approach it, being flanked with octagon
towers, pierced with a fine pointed arch, over which are cut, in rich relief, the royal arms,
and above them projects a large and handsome bay-window, framed of stone.

You now enter by a Gothic archway the first of the courts of Wolsey remaining. These two are
said to have been the meanest then in the palace. There were originally five; the three finest
of which were pulled down to make way for William III.'s great square mass of brickwork. The
writers who saw it in its glory, describe it in entireness as the most splendid palace in Europe.
Grotius says, "other palaces are residences of kings, but this is of the gods." Hentzner, who
saw it in Elizabeth's time, speaks of it with astonishment, and says, "the rooms being very
numerous, are adorned with tapestry of gold, silver, and velvet, in some of which were woven
history pieces; in other Turkish and Armenian dresses, all extremely natural. In one chamber
are several excessively rich tapestries, which are hung up when the queen gives audience to
foreign ambassadors. All the walls of the palace shine with gold and silver. Here is likewise
a certain cabinet called Paradise, where, besides that every thing glitters so with silver,
gold, and jewels, as to dazzle one's eyes, there is a musical instrument made all of glass
except the strings."

It was, indeed, a Dutch taste which leveled all these stately buildings to the ground, to erect
the great square mass which replaced them. A glorious view, if old drawings are to be believed,
must all that vast and picturesque variety of towers, battlements, tall mullioned windows,
cupolas and pinnacles, have made, as they stood under the clear heaven glittering in the sun....

The hall, the chapel, the withdrawing-room, are all splendid specimens of Gothic grandeur,
and possess many historic associations. In the hall, Surrey wrote on a pane of glass some of
his verses to Géraldine; and there, too, it is said, the play of Henry VIII., exhibiting the
fall of Wolsey in the very creation of his former glory, was once acted, Shakespeare himself
being one of the performers! And this is the order in which they rank them.

EATON HALL [Footnote: From "English Note Books." By permission of, and by arrangement with,
the publishers of Hawthorne's works, Houghton, Mifflin Co. Copyright, 1870 and 1898.]

BY NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

The Church of St. John is outside of the city walls of Chester.

HOLLAND HOUSE [Footnote: From "Homes and Haunts of the Most Eminent British Poets."]

BY WILLIAM HOWITT

Of Holland House, the last residence of Addison, it would require a long article to give a
fitting idea. This fine old mansion is full of historic associations. It takes its name from
Henry Rich, earl of Holland, whose portrait is in Bilton. It was built by his father-in-law,
Sir Walter Cope, in 1607, and affords a very good specimen of the architecture of that period.
The general form is that of a half H. The projection in the center, forming: at once porch
and tower, and the two wings supported on pillars, give great decision of effect to it. The
stone quoins worked with a sort of arabesque figure, remind one of the style of some portions
of Heidelberg Castle, which is what is called on the Continent roccoco. Here it is deemed Elizabethan;
but the plain buildings attached on each side to the main body of the house, with their shingled
and steep-roofed towers, have a very picturesque and Bohemian look. Altogether, it is a charming
old pile, and the interior corresponds beautifully with the exterior. There is a fine entrance-hall,
a library behind it, and another library extending the whole length of one of the wings and
the house upstairs, one hundred and five feet in length. The drawing-room over the entrance-hall,
called the Gilt Room, extends from front to back of the house, and commands views of the gardens
both way; those to the back are very beautiful.

In the house are, of course, many interesting and valuable works of art; a great portion of
them memorials of the distinguished men who have been accustomed to resort thither. In one
room is a portrait of Charles James Fox, as a child, in a light blue dress, and with a close,
reddish, woolen cap on his head, under which show lace edges. The artist is unknown, but is
supposed to be French. The countenance is full of life and intelligence, and the "child" in
it is, most remarkably, "the father of the man." The likeness is wonderful. You can imagine
how, by time and circumstance, that child's countenance expanded into what it became in maturity.
There is also a portrait of Addison, which belonged to his daughter. It represents him as much
younger than any other that I have seen. In the Gilt Room are marble busts of George IV. and
William IV. On the staircase is a bust of Lord Holland, father of the second earl and of Charles
Fox, by Nollekens. This bust, which is massy, and full of power and expression, is said to
have brought Nollekens into his great repute. The likeness to that of Charles Fox is very striking.
By the same artist there are also the busts of Charles Fox, the late Lord Holland, and the
present earl. That of Frere, by Chantry, is very spirited. There are also, here, portraits
of Lord Lansdowne, Lord John Russell, and family portraits. There is also a large and very
curious painting of a fair, by Callot, and an Italian print of it.

In the library, downstairs, are portraits of Charles James Fox--a very fine one; of the late
Lord Holland; of Talleyrand, by Ary Scheffer, perhaps the best in existence, and the only one
which he said that he ever sat for; of Sir Samuel Romilly; Sir James Mackintosh; Lord Erskine,
by Sir Thomas Lawrence; Tierney; Francis Horner, by Raeburn, so like Sir Walter Scott, by the
same artist, that I at first supposed it to be him; Lord Macartney, by Phillips; Frere, by
Shea; Mone, Lord Thanet; Archibald Hamilton; late Lord Darnley; late Lord King, when young,
by Hoppner; and a very sweet, foreign fancy portrait of the present Lady Holland. We miss,
however, from this haunt of genius, the portraits of Byron, Brougham, Crabbe, Blanco White,
Hallam, Rogers, Lord Jeffrey, and others. In the left wing is placed the colossal model of
the statue of Charles Fox, which stands in Bloomsbury Square.

In the gardens are various memorials of distinguished men. Among several very fine cedars,
perhaps the finest is said to have been planted by Charles Fox. In the quaint old garden is
an alcove, in which are the following lines, placed there by the late earl:

"Here Rogers sat--and here for ever dwell With me, those pleasures which he sang so well."

Beneath these are framed and glazed a copy of verses in honor of the same poet, by Mr. Luttrell.
There is also in the same garden, and opposite this alcove, a bronze bust of Napoleon, on a
granite pillar, with a Greek inscription from the Odyssey, admirably applying the situation
of Ulysses to that of Napoleon at St. Helena: "In a far-distant isle he remains under the harsh
surveillance of base men."

The fine avenue leading down from the house to the Kensington road is remarkable for having
often been the walking and talking place of Cromwell and General Lambert. Lambert then occupied
Holland House; and Cromwell, who lived next door, when he came to converse with him on state
affairs, had to speak very loud to him, because he was deaf. To avoid being overheard, they
used to walk in this avenue.

The traditions regarding Addison here are very slight. They are, simply, that he used to walk,
when composing his "Spectators," in the long library, then a picture gallery, with a bottle
of wine at each end, which he visited as he alternately arrived at them; and that the room
in which he died, tho not positively known, is supposed to be the present dining-room, being
then the state bed-room. The young Earl of Warwick, to whom he there address the emphatic words,
"See in what peace a Christian can die!" died also, himself, in 1721, but two years afterward.
The estate then devolved to Lord Kensington, descended from Robert Rich, Earl of Warwick, who
sold it, about 1762, to the Right Honorable Henry Fox, afterward Lord Holland. Here the early
days of the great statesman, Charles James, were passed.

ARUNDEL [Footnote: From "Cathedral Days." By permission of, and by arrangement with, the publishers,
Little, Brown & Co. Copyright, 1887.]

BY ANNA BOWMAN DODD

Such a vast architectural mass as Arundel Castle, implanted in Saxon, Roman, and feudal military
necessities, strikes its roots deep and wide. The town appeared, in comparison, to be but an
accidental projection on the hillside. The walls grow out of the town as the trunks of a great
tree shoot forth from the ground--of a different growth, but an integral part of it.

Topographically, Arundel has only a few features, yet they are fine enough to form a rich ensemble.
There is the castle, huge, splendid, impressive, set like a great gray pearl on the crown of
the hill. On one side spreads the town; on the other, the tall trees of the castle park begirt
its towers and battlements. At the foot of the hill runs the river--a beautiful sinuous stream,
which curves its course between the Down hillsides out through the plains to the sea. Whatever
may have been the fate of the town in former times, held perhaps at a distance far below in
the valley, during troublous times when the castle must be free for the more serious work of
assault or defense, it no longer lies at the foot of its great protector. In friendly confidence
it seems to sit, if not within its arms, at least beside its knee....

There is no escaping the conclusion that a duke, when one is confronted with his castle, does
seem an awfully real being. The castle was a great Catholic stronghold, the Dukes of Norfolk
being among the few great families which have remained faithful, since the Conquest, to the
See of Rome. The present Duke of Norfolk, by reason of the fervor of his piety, his untiring
zeal and magnificent generosity, is recognized as the head of the Catholic party in England.
To learn that he was at present on a pilgrimage to Lourdes, and that such was his yearly custom,
seemed to shorten distance for us. It made the old--its beliefs, its superstitions, its unquestioning
ardor of faith--strangely new. It invested the castle, which appealed to our consciousness
as something remote and alien, with the reality of its relation to medieval life and manners.

The little cathedral which crowns the hill--the most prominent object for miles about, after
the castle--is the gift of the present Duke. It is a pretty structure, pointed Gothic in style,
consciously reproduced with all the aids of flying buttresses, niches, pinnacles, and arches.
It was doubtless a splendid gift. Perhaps in the twenty-first century, when the weather has
done its architectural work on the exterior, and when the interior has been finely dimmed with
burned incense, when stained glass and sculptured effigies of saints have been donated by future
dukes, it will be a very imposing edifice indeed.

But all the beauty of ecclesiastical picturesqueness lies across the way. Hidden behind the
lovely beech-arched gateway rests the old parochial church. In spite of restoration the age
of six centuries is written unmistakably on the massive square bell-tower, the thirteenth-century
traceries, and the rich old glass. It is guarded by a high wall from the adjoining castle-walls,
as if the castle still feared there were something dangerously infectious in the mere propinquity
of such heresies.

It has had its turn at the sieges that have beset the castle. From the old tower there came
a rattling hail when Waller's artillery flashed forth its fire upon the Royalist garrison in
the castle. The old bells that peal out the Sunday chimes seem to retain something of the jubilant
spirit of that martial time. There was a brisk military vigor in their clanging, suggestive
of command rather than of entreaty, as if they were more at home when summoning fighters than
worshipers.

All is peace now. The old church sits in the midst of its graves, like an old patriarch surrounded
by the dead whom he has survived....

In looking up at the castle from the river, as a foreground, one has a lovely breastwork of
trees, the castle resting on the crown of the hill like some splendid jewel. Its grayness makes
its strong, bold outlines appear the more distinct against the melting background of the faint
blue and white English sky and the shifting sky scenery....

The earliest Saxon who built his stronghold where the castle now stands must have had an eye
for situation, pictorially considered, as well as that keen martial foresight which told him
that the warrior who commanded the first hill from the sea, with that bastion of natural fortifications
behind him, the Downs, had the God of battle already ranged on his side. The God of battle
has been called on, in times past, to preside over a number of military engagements which have
come off on this now peaceful hillside.

There have been few stirring events in English history in which Arundel Castle has not had
its share. As Norman barons, the Earls of Arundel could not do less than the other barons of
their time, and so quarreled with their king. When the Magna Charta was going about to gain
signers, these feudal Arundel gentlemen figured in the bill, so to speak. The fine Baron's
Hall, which commemorates this memorable signing, in the castle yonder, was built in honor of
those remote but far-sighted ancestors. The Englishman, of course, has neither the vanity of
the Frenchman nor the pride of the Spaniard. But for a modest people, it is astonishing what
a number of monuments are built to tell the rest of the world how free England is.

The other events which have in turn destroyed or rent the castle--its siege and surrender to
Henry I., the second siege by King Stephen, and later the struggle of the Cavaliers and Roundheads
for its possession, during the absence abroad of the then reigning Earl--have been recorded
with less boastful emphasis. The recent restorations, rebuildings, and enlargements have obliterated
all traces of these rude shocks. It has since risen a hundred times more beautiful from its
ruins. It is due to these modern renovations that the castle presents such a superb appearance.
It has the air of careful preservation which distinguishes some of the great royal residences--such
as Windsor, for instance, to which it has often been compared; its finish and completeness
suggests the modern chisel. It is this aspect of completeness, as well as the unity of its
fine architectural features, which makes such a great castle as this so impressive. As a feudal
stronghold it can hardly fail to appeal to the imagination. As the modern palatial home of
an English nobleman, it appeals to something more virile--to the sense that behind the medieval
walls the life of its occupants is still representative, is still deep and national in importance
and significance. Pictorially, there is nothing--unless it be a great cathedral, which brings
up quite a different order of impressions and sensations--that gives to the landscape such
pictorial effect as a castle.

PENSHURST [Footnote: From "Visits to Remarkable Places."]

BY WILLIAM HOWITT

England, among her titled families, can point to none more illustrious than that of Sidney.
It is a name which carries with it the attestation of its genuine nobility. Others are of older
standing in the realm. It is not one of those to be found on the roll of Battle Abbey. The
first who bore it in England is said to have come hither in the reign of Henry III. There are
others, too, which have mounted much higher in the scale of mere rank; but it may be safely
said that there is none of a truer dignity, nor more endeared to the spirits of Englishmen.

Of this distinguished line, the most illustrious and popular was unquestionably Sir Philip.
The universal admiration that he won from his contemporaries is one of the most curious circumstances
of the history of those times. The generous and affectionate enthusiasm with which he inspired
both his own countrymen and foreigners, has, perhaps, no parallel....

The first view which I got of the old house of Penshurst, called formerly both Penshurst Place
and Penshurst Castle, was as I descended the hill opposite to it. Its gray walls and turrets,
and high-peaked and red roofs rising in the midst of them; and the new buildings of fresh stone,
mingled with the ancient fabric, presented a very striking and venerable aspect.

It stands in the midst of a wide valley, on a pleasant elevation; its woods and park stretching
away beyond, northward; and the picturesque church, parsonage, and other houses of the village,
grouping in front. From whichever side you view the house, it strikes you as a fitting abode
of the noble Sidneys. Valleys run out on every side from the main one in which it stands; and
the hills, which are everywhere at some distance, wind about in a very pleasant and picturesque
manner, covered with mingled woods and fields, and hop-grounds.

The house now presents two principal fronts. The one facing westward, formerly looked into
a court, called the President's Court, because the greater part of it was built by Sir Henry
Sidney, the father of Sir Philip, and Lord President of the Council established in the Marches
of Wales. The court is now thrown open, and converted into a lawn surrounded by a sunk fence,
and overlooking a quiet valley of perhaps a mile in length, terminated by woody hills of great
rural beauty.

This front, as well as the northern one, is of great length. It is of several dates and styles
of architecture. The façade is of two stories, and battlemented. The center division, which
is of recent erection, has large windows of triple arches, with armorial shields between the
upper and lower stories. The south end of the façade is of an ancient date, with smaller mullioned
windows; the northern portion with windows of a similar character to those in the center, but
less and plainer. Over this façade shows itself the tall gable of the ancient banqueting-hall
which stands in the inner court. At each end of this façade projects a wing, with its various
towers of various bulk and height; some square, of stone, others octagon, of brick, with a
great diversity of tall, worked chimneys, which, with steep roofs, and the mixture of brick-work
and stone-work all through the front, give a mottled, but yet very venerable aspect to it.

The north and principal front, facing up the park, has been restored by its noble possessor,
and presents a battlemented range of stone buildings of various projections, towers, turrets,
and turreted chimneys, which, when the windows are put in, which is not yet fully done, will
have few superiors among the castellated mansions of England....

In the center of the inner court stands the old banqueting-hall, a tall gabled building with
high red roof, surmounted with the ruins of a cupola, erected upon it by Mr. Perry, who married
the heiress of the family, but who does not seem to have brought much taste into it. On the
point of each gable is an old stone figure--the one a tortoise, the other a lion couchant--and
upon the back of each of these old figures, so completely accordant with the building itself,
which exhibits under its eaves and at the corners of its windows numbers of those grotesque
corbels which distinguish our buildings of an early date, both domestic and ecclesiastical,
good Mr. Perry clapped a huge leaden vase which had probably crowned aforetime the pillars
of a gateway, or the roof of a garden-house....

The south side of the house has all the irregularity of an old castle, consisting of various
towers, projections, buttresses, and gables. Some of the windows show tracery of a superior
order, and others have huge common sashes, introduced by the tasteful Mr. Perry aforesaid.
The court on this side is surrounded by battlemented walls, and has a massy square gatehouse
leading into the old garden, or pleasaunce, which sloped away down toward the Medway, but is
now merely a grassy lawn, with the remains of one fine terrace running along its western side....

The old banqueting-hall is a noble specimen of the baronial hall of the reign of Edward III.,
when both house and table exhibited the rudeness of a martial age, and both gentle and simple
revelled together, parted only by the salt. The floor is of brick. The raised platform, or
dais, at the west-end, advances sixteen feet into the room. The width of the hall is about
forty feet, and the length of it about fifty-four feet. On each side are tall Gothic windows,
much of the tracery of which has been some time knocked out, and the openings plastered up.
At the east end is a fine large window, with two smaller ones above it; but the large window
is, for the most part, hidden by the front of the music gallery.

In the center of the floor an octagon space is marked out with a rim of stone, and within this
space stands a massy old dog, or brand-iron, about a yard and a half wide, and the two upright
ends three feet six inches high, having on their outer sides, near the top, the double broad
arrow of the Sidney arms. The smoke from the fire, which was laid on this jolly dog, ascended
and passed out through the center of the roof, which is high, and of framed oak, and was adorned
at the spring of the huge groined spars with grotesque projecting carved figures, or corbels,
which are now taken down, being considered in danger of falling, and are laid in the music gallery.

IV

ENGLISH LITERARY SHRINES

STRATFORD-ON-AVON [Footnote: From "The Sketch Book."

GARRICK. Blessed be he that spares these stones, And curst be he that moves my bones." The
gateway is in imitation of the ancient barbican; being a kind of outpost and flanked by towers;
tho evidently for mere ornament, instead of defense.

I now bade a reluctant farewell to the old hall.

NEWSTEAD ABBEY [Footnote: From "English Note Books."

HUCKNALL-TORKARD CHURCH [Footnote: From "Gray Days and Gold." The town is modern and commonplace
in appearance,--a straggling collection of low brick dwellings, mostly occupied by colliers.
On that day it appeared at its worst; for the widest part of its main street was filled with
stalls, benches, wagons, and canvas-covered structures for the display of vegetables and other
commodities, which were thus offered for sale, and it was thronged with rough, noisy, dirty
persons, intent on barter and traffic, and not indisposed to boisterous pranks and mirth, as
they pushed and jostled each other among the crowded booths. This main street terminates at
the wall of the graveyard in which stands the little gray church wherein Byron was buried.
There is an iron gate in the center of the wall, and in order to reach this it was necessary
to thread the mazes of the marketplace, and to push aside the canvas flaps of a pedler's stall
which had been placed close against it. Next to the churchyard wall is a little cottage, with
a bit of garden, devoted, at that time, to potatoes; and there, while waiting for the sexton,
I talked with an aged man, who said that he remembered, as an eye-witness, the funeral of Byron.
He stated his age and said that his name was William Callandyne. Pointing to the church, he
indicated the place of the Byron vault. "I was the last man," he said, "that went down into
it before he was buried there. I was a young fellow then, and curious to see what was going
on. The place was full of skulls and bones. I wish you could see my son; he's a clever lad,
only he ought to have more of the suaviter in modo." Thus, with the garrulity of wandering
age, he prattled on, but his mind was clear and his memory tenacious and positive. There is
a good prospect from the region of Hucknall-Torkard Church, and pointing into the distance,
when his mind had been brought back to the subject of Byron, my aged interlocutor described,
with minute specification of road and lane,--seeming to assume that the names and the turnings
were familiar to me,--the course of the funeral train from Nottingham to the church. "There
were eleven carriages," he said. "They didn't go to the Abbey" (meaning Newstead), "but came
directly here. There were many people to look at them. I remember all about it, and I'm an
old man--eighty-two. You're an Italian, I should say," he added. By this time the sexton had
come and unlocked the gate, and parting from Mr. Callandyne we presently made our way into
the Church of St. James, locking the churchyard gate to exclude rough and possibly mischievous
followers. A strange and sad contrast, I thought, between this coarse, turbulent place, by
a malign destiny ordained for the grave of Byron, and that peaceful, lovely, majestic church
and precinct at Stratford-upon-Avon which enshrine the dust of Shakespeare....

The sexton of the Church of St. James and the parish clerk of Hucknall-Torkard was Mr. John
Brown, and a man of sympathetic intelligence, kind heart, and interesting character I found
him to be,--large, dark, stalwart, but gentle alike in manner and feeling, and considerate
of his visitor. The pilgrim to the literary shrines of England does not always find the neighboring
inhabitants either sympathetic with his reverence or conscious of especial sanctity or interest
appertaining to the relics which they possess; but honest, manly John Brown of Hucknall-Torkard
understood both the hallowing charm of the place and the sentiment, not to say the profound
emotion, of the traveler who now beheld for the first time the tomb of Byron. The church has
been considerably altered since Byron was buried in it, 1824, yet it retains its fundamental
structure and its ancient peculiarities. The tower, a fine specimen of Norman architecture,
dark, ragged, and grim, gives indication of great age. It is of a kind often met with in ancient
English towns; you can see its brothers at York, Shrewsbury, Canterbury, Worcester, Warwick,
and in many places sprinkled over the northern heights of London; but amid its tame surroundings
in this little colliery settlement it looms with a peculiar frowning majesty, a certain bleak
loneliness, both unique and impressive. The edifice is of the customary crucial form,--a low
stone structure, having a peaked roof, which is supported by four great pillars on each side
of the center aisle. The ceiling, which is made of heavy timbers, forms almost a true arch
above the nave. There are four large windows on each side of the nave, and two on each side
of the chancel, which is beneath a roof somewhat lower than that of the main building. Under
the pavement of the chancel, and back of the altar rail,--at which it was my privilege to kneel
while gazing upon this sacred spot,--is the grave of Byron.... Nothing is written on the stone
that covers his sepulcher except the simple name of BYRON with the dates of his birth and death,
in brass letters, surrounded by a wreath of leaves in brass, the gift of the King of Greece;
and never did a name seem more stately or a place more hallowed. The dust of the poet reposes
between that of his mother on his right hand, and that of his Ada,--"sole daughter of my house
and heart,"--on his left. The mother died on August 1, 1811; the daughter, who had by marriage
become the Countess of Lovelace, in 1852. "I buried her with my own hands," said the sexton,
John Brown, when, after a little time, he rejoined me at the altar-rail. "I told them exactly
where he was laid when they wanted to put that brass on the stone; I remembered it well, for
I lowered the coffin of the Countess of Lovelace into this vault, and laid her by her father's
side." And when presently we went into the vestry, he produced the Register of Burials and
displayed the record of that interment in the following words: "1852. Died at 69 Cumberland
Pl. London. Buried December 3. Aged thirty-six.--Curtis Jackson." The Byrons were a short-lived
race. The poet himself had just turned thirty-six; his mother was only forty-six when she passed
away. This name of Curtis Jackson in the register was that of the rector or curate then incumbent
but now departed....

A book has been kept for many years, at the church of Hucknall-Torkard, in which visitors desiring
to do so, can write their names. The first book provided for this purpose was an album given
to the church by the poet, Sir John Bowling, and in that there was a record of visitations
during the years from 1825 to 1834....  The catalog of pilgrims to the grave of Byron during
the last eighty years is not a long one. The votaries of that poet are far less numerous than
those of Shakespeare. Custom has made the visit to Stratford "a property of easiness," and
Shakespeare is a safe no less than a rightful object of worship. The visit to Hucknall-Torkard
is neither as easy nor as agreeable. Torkard is neither as easy nor as agreeable.... On the
capital of a column near Byron's tomb I saw two moldering wreaths of laurel, which had hung
there for several years; one brought by the Bishop of Norwich, the other by the American poet
Joaquin Miller. It was good to see them, and especially to see them beside the tablet of white
marble which was placed on that church wall to commemorate the poet, and to be her witness
in death, by his loving and beloved sister Augusta Mary Leigh,--a name that is the synonym
of noble fidelity, a name that cruel detraction and hideous calumny have done their worst to
tarnish. That tablet names him "The Author of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage," and if the conviction
of thoughtful men and women throughout the world can be accepted as an authority, no name in
the long annals of English literature is more certain of immortality than the name of Byron.
His reputation can afford the absence of all memorial to him in Westminster Abbey,--can endure
it, perhaps, better than the English nation can,--and it can endure the neglect and censure
of the precinct of Nottingham. That city rejoices in many interesting associations, but all
that really hallows it for the stranger is its association with the name of Byron. The stranger
will look in vain, however, for any adequate sign of his former connection with that place.
It is difficult even to find prints or photographs of the Byron shrine, in the shops of Nottingham.
[Footnote: Since this paper was written the buildings that flanked the front wall of Hucknall-Torkard
churchyard have been removed, the street in front of it has been widened, and the church has
been "restored" and considerably altered.--Author's note to the Editor.]

DR. JOHNSON'S BIRTHPLACE [Footnote: From "Our Old Home."

