First, congealed vapor. Second, a number. Third, formerly. Fourth, a division of time.

  M. E. N.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 6.

ENIGMA.

  My first is in laugh, but not in cry.
  My second is in tall, but not in high.
  My third is in fig, but not in plum.
  My fourth is in speak, but not in dumb.
  My fifth is in yours, but not in his.
  My sixth is in been, but not in is.
  My seventh is in tame, but not in wild.
  My eighth is in infant, not in child.
  My ninth is in village, not in town.
  My whole was a general of renown.

  ADA.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES IN NO. 37.

No. 1.

Shark, hark, ark.

No. 2.

Diamond.

No. 3.

  D A S H
  A R E A
  S E A L
  H A L O

No. 4.

      T
    R A T
  T A R R Y
    T R Y
      Y

No. 5.

  C  hatha  M
  A  ncon   A
  S antande R
  P  otsda  M
  I  salc   O
  A    y    R
  N icaragu A

Caspian, Marmora.

No. 6.

Oliver Goldsmith.

Steam Heating in Combination. Merchandise Broker. Ask for information.

MORE MIRTHFUL MAGIC.

BY W. B. BARTLETT.

THE BOOK PUZZLE.

The player agrees to let any person in the room turn over as many books, one at a time, as
desired, while he is out of the room, and promises to tell you, upon his return, which book
was turned over last. He goes out, and comes back when the person who turned the books says,
"Come in." When he opens the door, he says, "You must stay outside while I find out, so no
one will suspect us of being in league with each other." The one who turned the books is then
shut out, and the other selects any thin book, and leans it against the door, and says, "Come
in." As the door is opened, of course the book is turned over on the floor, and the victim
is told, "That is the last book you turned over."

THE NEWSPAPER TRICK.

Take a common newspaper or handkerchief, and request any one of the company to place it on
the floor so that two persons can stand upon it at the same time, and neither be able to see
or touch the other.

Answer.--Place it across the door-sill, and let one stand upon it in the entry. Then close
the door, and ask the other to step upon the other end in the room, and neither can see nor
touch the other, for the door prevents.

THE COW PUZZLE.

Tell the company that seven cows were walking in a straight line into a narrow door, and say
to them, "If you should ask the last cow, 'How many pairs of horns are before you?' what would
she reply?"

Some will answer, "One pair," and some, "Seven pairs," but after puzzling them for a while,
you can reply, "In the opinion of most scientists, she would not say anything, for she could
not speak, poor thing!"

ANOTHER COW PUZZLE.

Draw a square with a lead-pencil, and say, "Suppose this field was inclosed with walls fifty
feet high, without opening or possibility of digging under, and a cow was in there, how could
you get it out?"

Answer.--Rub it out.

CHARADE.

  As by the fire the lovers sit,
  On rosy wings the moments flit;
  One little word confirms their bliss,
  And seals it with a loving kiss.

  That bliss they never could sustain
  Without my second's golden grain;
  Yet if it does attend their feet,
  Their daily walk is incomplete.

  My whole leaps forth from out the flame,
  Airy and light, but still the same;
  Showing a hard and common thing
  Made pure and white through suffering.

THE USEFUL SUNFLOWER.

