G. E. M.

HAMMERSMITH

The parish of Hammersmith is mentioned in Doomsday Book under the name of Hermoderwode, and
in ancient deeds of the Exchequer as Hermoderworth. It is called Hamersmith in the Court Rolls
of the beginning of Henry VII.'s reign. This is evidently more correct than the present spelling
of the name, which is undoubtedly derived from Ham, meaning in Saxon a town or dwelling, and
Hythe or Hyde, a haven or harbour, "therefore," says Faulkner, "Ham-hythe, a town with a harbour
or creek."

Hammersmith is bounded on the south by Fulham and the river, on the west by Chiswick and Acton,
and on the east by Kensington. Until 1834 it was incorporated with the parish of Fulham, and
on Ascension Day of that year the first ceremony of "beating the bounds" took place. The West
London Railway runs in the bed of an ancient stream which rose north of Wormwood Scrubs and
ended at Chelsea Creek, and this brook was crossed by a bridge at the place where the railway-bridge
now stands on the Hammersmith Road. The stream was evidently the determining factor in the
old parish boundary line between Kensington and Hammersmith, but Hammersmith borough includes
this, ending at Norland and St. Ann's Roads. On the south side it marches with Fulham--that
is to say, westward along the Hammersmith Road as far as St. Paul's School, where it dips southward
to include the school, and thence to the river. From here it proceeds midway in the river to
a point almost opposite the end of Chiswick Ait, then northward up British Grove as far as
Ravenscourt Gardens; almost due north to within a few yards of the Stamford Brook Road; it
follows the trend of that road to the North and South Western Junction Railway. It crosses
the railway three times before going northward until it is on a level with Jeddo Road. It then
turns eastward, cuts across the north of Jeddo Road to Wilton Road West. Northward it runs
to the Uxbridge Road, follows this eastward for a few yards, and strikes again northward up
Old Oak Road and Old Oak Common Road until it reaches Wormwood Scrubs public and military ground.
It then trends north-eastward, curves back to meet the Midland and South-Western Line as it
crosses the canal, and follows Old Oak Common Road until on a level with Willesden Junction
Station, from thence eastward to the Harrow Road. It follows the Harrow Road until it meets
the western Kensington boundary running between the Roman Catholic and Protestant cemeteries
at Kensal Town. It goes through Brewster Gardens and Latimer Road until it meets the line first
indicated.

HISTORY.

With Fulham, Hammersmith shared in the incursion of the Danes in 879, and it is especially
mentioned in the Chronicle of Roger de Hoveden that they wintered in the island of Hame, which
Faulkner thinks is the ait or island near Chiswick, which, he says, must have considerably
decreased in size during the nine centuries that have elapsed. In 1647 Cromwell removed his
quarters from Isleworth to Hammersmith, and "when he was at Sir Nicholas Crispe's house, the
headquarters were near the church." The general officers were quartered at Butterwick, now
Bradmore House, then the property of the Earl of Mulgrave.

PERAMBULATION.--The first thing noticeable after crossing the boundary from Kensington is St.
Paul's School. It stands on the south side of the road, an imposing mass of fiery red brick
in an ornamental style. The present building was erected in 1884 by Alfred Waterhouse, and
a statue to the memory of Dean Colet, the founder, standing within the grounds was unveiled
in 1902. It was designed by W. Hamo Thornycroft, R.A. The frontage of the building measures
350 feet, and the grounds, including the site, cover six acres. Dr. John Colet, D.D., Dean
of St. Paul's, founded his school in 1509 in St. Paul's Churchyard, but it is not known how
far he incorporated with it the then existing choir-school. The number of his pupils was 153,
in accordance with the number of fishes in the miraculous draught, and the foundation scholars
are limited to the same number at the present day. The old school stood on the east side of
St. Paul's Churchyard, and suffered so much in the Great Fire that it had to be completely
rebuilt. When, in the nineteenth century, the site had become very valuable, the school was
removed to Hammersmith, and its original site is now covered by business premises. Dean Colet
endowed the foundation by leaving to it lands that were estimated by Stow to be worth £120
annually, and that are now valued at over £20,000. The school is governed under a scheme framed
by the Charity Commissioners in 1900, and part of the income is diverted to maintain the new
girls' school in Brook Green.

Lily, the grammarian, was the first headmaster, and the roll of the pupils includes many great
names--the antiquaries Leland, Camden, and Strype; John Milton, prince of poets; Halley, the
astronomer; Samuel Pepys; Sir Philip Francis, supposed author of the "Letters of Junius"; the
famous Duke of Marlborough; among Bishops, Cumberland, Fisher, Ollivant and Lee; among statesmen,
Charles, Duke of Manchester, Spencer Compton (Earl of Wilmington), Prime Minister; and Lord
Chancellor Truro; also Sir Frederick Pollock, Lord Hannen, Sir Frederick Halliday, and Benjamin
Jowett.

The preparatory school, called Colet Court, stands opposite on the northern side of the road.
It was founded in 1881, and owns two and a half acres of land. On the same side Kensington
Co-operative Stores covers the site of White Cottage, for some time the residence of Charles Keene.

Next to the Red Cow public-house lived Dr. Burney, D.D., LL.D., learned father of a celebrated
daughter, who became afterwards Madame D'Arblay. He kept a school here for seven years from
1786. There are other old houses in the vicinity, but to none of them is there attached any
special interest. The Convent of the Poor Sisters of Nazareth is in a large brick building
on the south side of the road. This was built in 1857 for the convent purposes. It is the mother-house
of the Nazareth nuns, so that the numbers continually vary, many passing through for their
noviciate. The nuns collect alms for the aged poor and children, and many of the poor are thus
sustained. Besides this, there are a number of imbecile or paralytic children who live permanently
in the convent. The charity is not confined to Roman Catholics.

The Latymer Foundation School is a plain brick building standing a little back from the highroad.
It bears the Latymer arms, and a cross in stone over the doorway, as well as the date of the
foundation. The Latymer charity was established in 1824 by the will of Edward Latymer. He left
several pieces of land in the hands of trustees, who were to apply the rents to the following uses:

    "To elect and choose eight poor boys inhabiting Hammersmith within
    the age of twelve and above the age of seven, and provide for every
    boy a doublet and a pair of breeches of frieze or leather, one
    shirt, one pair of stockings, and a pair of shoes on the 1st of
    November; and also to provide yearly, against Ascension Day, a
    doublet and a pair of breeches of coarse canvas lined, and deliver
    the same unto the said boys, and also a shirt, one pair of stockings,
    and a pair of shoes; and that on the left sleeve of every poor boy's
    doublet a cross of red cloth or baize should be fastened and worn;
    and that the feofees should cause the boys to be put to some petty
    school to learn to read English till they attain thirteen, and to
    instruct them in some part of God's true religion. The allowance of
    clothing to cease at thirteen. And that the feofees shall also elect
    six poor aged men of honest conversation inhabiting Hammersmith, and
    provide for every one of them coats or cassocks of frieze or cloth,
    and deliver the same upon the 1st of November in every year, a cross
    of red cloth or baize to be fastened on the left sleeve; and that
    yearly, on Ascension Day, the feofees should pay to each man ten
    shillings in money."

To this charity were added various sums from benefactors from time to time, and the number
of recipients was increased gradually, until in 1855 there were 100 boys and 45 almsmen. At
that date the men's clothing consisted of a body coat, breeches, waistcoat, hat, pair of boots,
stockings, and shirt one year, and the next, great-coat, breeches, pair of boots, stockings,
shirt, and hat. The boys received coat, waistcoat, and trousers, cap, pair of stockings, shirt,
pair of bands, pair of boots. At present part of the money is given in alms, and the rest is
devoted to the Lower Latymer School and the Upper Latymer School, built 1894, situated in King
Street West.

At the back of the Latymer Foundation, in Great Church Lane, is the Female Philanthropic Society.
The object is for the reformation of young women convicted for a first offence or addicted
to petty pilfering.

Opposite is a recreation-ground and St. Paul's parochial room, a small temporary iron building.
In King's Mews, Great Church Lane, Cipriani, the historical painter and engraver, lived at
one time. He died here in 1785. The entrance to Bradmore House, the oldest house in Hammersmith,
is in the lane. The grounds stretch out a long way eastward, and one or two old cedars are
still growing here. The eastern portion of the house has a fine front with fluted pilasters,
with Ionic capitals running up to a stone parapet surmounted by urns. The windows are circular-headed,
and those over the central doorway belong to a great room, 30 feet by 20, and 20 in height.
The house, though much altered, is in its origin part of a very old building named Butterwick
House, built by Edmund, third Baron Sheffield and Earl of Mulgrave, about the latter end of
Queen Elizabeth's reign. The name was taken from a village in Lincolnshire where the Sheffield
family had long lived. This Earl of Mulgrave was grandfather of John, Duke of Buckingham. He
died in 1646, and is buried in the church. The estate probably passed from the Sheffield family
soon after his death, for in 1653 the manor-house or farm of Butterwick, called the Great House,
"passed to Margaret Clapham, wife of Christopher Clapham and widow of Robert Moyle, and her
son Walter Moyle after her." In 1677 it was conveyed by Walter Moyle for the use of Anne Cleeve
and her heirs. She aliened it to Mr. Ferne in 1700. The house was greatly modernized by Mr.
Ferne, Receiver-General of the Customs, who added some rooms to the north-east, "much admired,"
says Lysons, "for their architectural beauty."

He intended this part of the house for Mrs. Oldfield, the actress, but she never inhabited
it. One of Mr. Ferne's daughters married a Mr. Turner, who in 1736 sold the house to Elijah
Impey, father of Sir Elijah Impey, Chief Justice of Bengal. He divided the modern part built
by Mr. Ferne from the older building, and called it Bradmore House, and under this name it
was used as a school for more than a century. It was again divided into two parts, and the
western portion, which fronts the church, is of dark brick with red-brick facings, which glow
through the overhanging creepers.

