Well and so--when she came to herself, where do you think she was? Why, she was lying out in
the warm summer air, on a green bank, all tufted with cowslips and violets and clover-blossoms,
with a plenty of strawberries underneath her feet, and the bluest water you ever saw all round
her, murmuring like the rose-lipped sea-shells; and the air was full of singing-birds, and
there was a little old woman looking at her, with the funniest cap, and a withered face not
bigger than you may see when you look at the baby through the big end of a spyglass: the cap
was a morning-glory, and it was tied underneath the chin with bleached cobweb, and the streamers
and bows were just like the colors you see in a soap-bubble.

"Goody gracious! where am I now?" said little Ruth.

"Yes, my dear, that's my name," said the little old woman, dropping a low courtesy, and then
spinning round two or three times, and squatting down suddenly, so as to make what you call
a cheese.

"Why, you don't mean to say that's your real name," whispered little Ruth.

"To be sure it is! just as much as-- And pray, my little creature, what's your name?"

"Mine! O, my name is Ruth Page, only Ruth Page." And up she jumped, and spun round among the
strawberries and flowers, and tried to make a courtesy like the little old woman, and then
they both burst out a-laughing together.

"Well," said Goody Gracious, "you're a nice, good-natured, funny little thing, I'll say that
for you, as ever I happened to meet with; but haven't you another and a prettier name, hey?"

"Why, sometimes they call me little Teenty-Tawnty," said Ruth.

"Fiddle-de-dee, I don't like that name any better than the other: we must give you a new name,"
said the little old woman; "but first tell me,"--and she grew very serious, and her little
sharp eyes changed color,--"first tell me how you happened to be here, in the very heart of
Fairy-land, with nobody to take care of you, and not so much as a wasp or a bumble-bee to watch
over you when you are asleep."

"Indeed, and indeed, ma'am, I don't know," said little Ruth; "all I do know is, that I have
been very naughty, and that I am drowned, and that I shall never see my poor dear mamma any
more!" And then she up and told the whole story to the little old woman, crying bitterly all
the while.

"Don't take on so, my little dear, don't, don't!" said Goody Gracious; and out she whipped
what appeared to Ruth nothing but a rumpled leaf of the tiger-lily, and wiped her eyes with
it. "Be a good child, and, after a trial of three days in Fairy-land, if you want to go back
to your mother you shall go, and you may carry with you a token to her that you have told the
truth."

"O, bless your little dear old-fashioned face," cried Ruth; "O, bless you, bless you! only
give me a token that will make me always remember what I have promised my poor dear mother,
and I shall be so happy! and I won't ask for anything else."

"What, neither for humming-birds, nor gold-fish, nor butterflies, nor diamonds, nor pearls,
nor anything you have been wishing for so long, ever since you were able to read about Fairy-land?"

"No, ma'am; just give me a ring of wheat-straw, or a brooch from the ruby-beetle, if you like,
and I shall be satisfied."

"Be it so; but, before I change you to a fairy, you must make choice of what you want to see
in Fairy-land for three days running; for, at the end of that time, I shall change you back
again, so that if you are of the same mind then, you may go back to your mother, and, if not,
you will stay with us for ever and ever."

"For ever and ever?" said Ruth, and she trembled; "please, ma'am, I should like to go now,
if it's all the same to you?"

