The excellent and devoted managers of the hospitals of the Union army need no teaching as to
the daily administration of the affairs of the wards. They will never have to do and dare the
things that Miss Nightingale had to decide upon, because they have happily had the privilege
of arranging their hospitals on their own principles. They will not know the exasperation of
seeing sufferers crowded together on a wooden divan (with an under-stratum of dead rats and
rotting rags) while there is an out-house full of bedsteads laid up in store under lock and
key. Not being disposed to acquiesce in such a state of things, and failing in all attempts
to get at the authority which had charge of the locked door, Miss Nightingale called to an
orderly or two, and commanded them to break open the door. They stared; but she said she assumed
the responsibility; and presently there were as many men in bed as there were bedsteads. Her
doctrine and practice have always been,--instant and silent obedience to medical and disciplinary
orders, without any qualification whatever; and by her example and teaching in this respect
she at length overcame the jealousy and prejudices of authorities, medical and military: but
in such a case as the actual presence of necessaries for the sick, sent out by Government or
by private charity for their use, she claimed the benefit, and helped her patients to it, when
there was no other obstruction in the way than forms and rules never meant to apply to the case.

What the jealousy was appeared through very small incidents. A leading medical officer declared,
in giving evidence, that the reason why the patients' meals were sometimes served late and
cold, or half-cooked, was, that Miss Nightingale and her nurses were forever in the way in
the general kitchen, keeping the cooks from the fire: whereas the fact was, that neither Miss
Nightingale nor any nurse had ever entered the general kitchen, on any occasion whatever. Their
way was to have a kitchen of their own. The very idea of that kitchen was savory in the wards;
for out of it came, always at the right moment, arrowroot, hot and of the pleasantest consistence,--rice
puddings, neither hard on the one hand nor clammy on the other,--cool lemonade for the feverish,
cans full of hot tea for the weary, and good coffee for the faint. When the sinking sufferer
was lying with closed eyes, too feeble to make moan or sign, the hospital spoon was put between
his lips, with the mouthful of strong broth or hot wine which rallied him till the watchful
nurse came round again. The meat from that kitchen was tenderer than any other; the beef-tea
was more savory. One thing that came out of it was a lesson on the saving of good cookery.
The mere circumstance of the boiling water being really boiling there made a difference of
two ounces of rice in every four puddings, and of more than half the arrowroot used. The same
quantity of arrowroot which made a pint, thin and poor, in the general kitchen, made two pints,
thick and good, in Miss Nightingale's.

Then there was the difference in readiness and punctuality. Owing to cumbrous forms and awkward
rules, the orderlies charged with the business were running round almost all day about the
food for their wards; and the patients were disgusted with it at last. There were endless orders
and details, whenever the monotonous regular diet was departed from; whereas the establishment
of several regular diets, according to the classifications in the wards, would have simplified
matters exceedingly. When everything for dysentery patients, or for fever patients, or for
certain classes of wounded was called "extra diet," there were special forms to be gone through,
and orders and contradictions given, which threw everything into confusion, under the name
of discipline. The authority of the ward would allow some extra,--butter, for instance; and
then a higher authority, seeing the butter, and not knowing how it came there, would throw
it out of the window, as "spoiling the men." Between getting the orders, and getting the meat
and extras, and the mutual crowding of the messengers, some of the dinners were not put on
the fire till an hour or two after the fainting patient should have had his meal: and then,
of course, he could not take it. The cold mutton-chop with its opaque fat, the beef with its
caked gravy, the arrowroot stiff and glazed, all untouched, might be seen by the bedsides in
the afternoons, while the patients were lying back, sinking for want of support. Probably the
dinners had been brought up on a tray, cooling all the way up-stairs and along the corridors;
and when brought in, there was the cutting up, in full view of the intended eaters,--sometimes
on the orderly's own bed, when the tables were occupied. Under such a system, what must it
have been to see the quick and quiet nurses enter, as the clock struck, with their hot-water
tins, hot morsels ready-cut, hot plates, bright knife and fork and spoon,--and all ready for
instant eating! This was a strong lesson to those who would learn; and in a short time there
was a great change for the better. The patients who were able to sit at table were encouraged
to rise, and dress, and dine in cheerful company, and at the proper hour. It was discovered,
that, if an alternation was provided of soups, puddings, fish, poultry, and vegetables, with
the regular beef dinner, the great mass of trouble about extras was swept away at once; for
these varieties met every case in hospital except the small number which required slops and
cordials, or something very unusual. By this clearance, time was saved to such an extent that
punctuality became possible, and the refusal of food almost ceased.

All these details point to the essential badness of the system of requisitions. In the old
days, when war was altogether a mass of formalities,--and in peace times, when soldiers and
their guardians had not enough to do, and it was made an object and employment to save the
national property by hedging round all expenditure of that property with difficulties, the
system of requisitions might suit the period and the parties. Amidst the rapid action and sharp
emergencies of war it is out of place. It was found intolerable that nothing whatever could
be had,--not a dose of medicine, nor a candle, nor a sheet, nor a spoon or dish, nor a bit
of soap,--without a series of permits, and applications, and orders, and vouchers, which frittered
away the precious hours, depressed the sick, worried their nurses, and wasted more of money's
worth in official time, paper, and expensive cross-purposes than could possibly have been saved
by all the ostentatious vigilance of the method. The deck-loads of vegetables at Balaklava,
thrown overboard because they were rotten before they were drawn, were not the only stores
wasted for want of being asked for. When the Scutari hospitals had become healthy and comfortable,
there was a thorough opening-out of all the stores which had before been made inaccessible
by forms. No more bedsteads, no more lime-juice, no more rice, no more beer, no more precious
medicines were then locked away, out of the reach or the knowledge of those who were dying,
or seeing others die, for want of them.

One miserable consequence of the cumbrous method was, that there was no certainty at any hour
of some essential commodity not falling short. It would have been a dismal day for the most
suffering of the patients when there was not fuel enough to cook "extras," if Miss Nightingale
had not providently bought four boat-loads of wood to meet such a contingency. It was a dreadful
night in the hospital, when, as cholera patients were brought in by the score, the surgeons
found there were no candles to be had. In that disease, of all maladies, they had to tend their
patients in the dark all night; and a more shocking scene can scarcely be conceived.

Every great influx of patients was terrible, whether from an epidemic or after a battle; but
experience and devotedness made even this comparatively easy before the troops turned homewards.
The arrival of a transport was, perhaps, the first intimation of the earlier battles. Then
all was hurry-skurry in the hospitals; everybody was willing to help, but the effectual organization
was not yet ready.

Of every hundred on board the transport, an average of ten had died since leaving the Crimea.
The names and causes of death of these men ought to be recorded; but the surgeons of the transport
are wholly occupied in despatching their living charge to the hospital; and the surgeons there
have enough to do in receiving them. Attempts are made to obtain the number and names and injuries
of the new patients: there may or may not be a list furnished from the ship; and the hospital
surgeons inquire from bed to bed: but in such a scene mistakes are sure to arise; and it was
found, in fact, that there was always more or less variation between the numbers recorded as
received or dead and the proper number. No one could wonder at this who had for a moment looked
upon the scene. The poor fellows just arrived had perhaps not had their clothes off since they
were wounded or were seized with cholera, and they were steeped in blood and filth, and swarming
with vermin. To obtain shirts and towels was hard work, because it had to be proved that they
brought none with them. They were laid on the floor in the corridors, as close as they could
be packed, thus breathing and contaminating the air which was to have refreshed the wards within.
If laid upon so-called sheets, they entreated that the sheets might be taken away; for they
were of coarse canvas, intolerable to the skin. Before the miserable company could be fed,
made clean, and treated by the surgeons, many were dead; and a too large proportion were never
to leave the place more, though struggling for a time with death. It was amidst such a scene
that Florence Nightingale refused to despair of five men so desperately wounded as to be set
aside by the surgeons. The surgeons were right. As they said, their time was but too little
for the cases which were not hopeless. And Florence Nightingale was right in finding time,
if she could, to see whether there was really no chance. She ascertained that these five were
absolutely given over; and she and her assistants managed to attend to them through the night.
She cleaned and comforted them, and had spoonfuls of nourishment ready whenever they could
be swallowed. By the morning round of the surgeons, these men were ready to be operated upon;
and they were all saved.

It would have been easier work at a later period. Before many months were over, the place was
ready for any number to be received in peace and quietness. Instead of being carried from one
place to another, because too many had been sent to one hospital and too few to another, the
poor fellows were borne in the shortest and easiest way from the boat to their beds. They were
found eager for cleanliness; and presently they were clean accordingly, and lying on a good
bed, between clean, soft sheets. They did not come in scorbutic, like their predecessors; and
they had no reason to dread hospital gangrene or fever. Every floor and every pane in the windows
was clean; and the air came in pure from the wide, empty corridors. There was a change of linen
whenever it was desired; and the shirts came back from the wash perfectly sweet and fresh.
The cleaning of the wards was done in the mornings, punctually, quickly, quietly, and thoroughly.
The doctors came round, attended by a nurse who received the orders, and was afterwards steady
in the fulfilment of them. The tables of the medicines of the day were hung up in the ward;
and the nurse went round to administer them with her own hand. Where she was, there was order
and quietness all day, and the orderlies were worth twice as much as before the women came.
Their manners were better; and they gave their minds more to their business. The nurse found
time to suit each patient who wished it with a book or a newspaper, when gifts of that sort
arrived from England. Kind visitors sat by the beds to write letters for the patients, undertaking
to see the epistles forwarded to England. When the invalids became able to rise for dinner,
it was a turning-point in their case; and they were soon getting into the apartment where there
were games and books and meetings of old comrades. As I have said before, those who died at
these hospitals were finally scarcely more than those who died in--not the hospitals--but the
barracks of the Guards at home.

What were the changes in organization needed to produce such a regeneration as this?

They were such as must appear to Americans very simple and easy. The wonder will be rather
that they were necessary at last than that they should have been effected with any difficulty.
But Americans have never known what it is to have a standing army as a long-established and
prominent national institution; and they can therefore hardly conceive of the strength of the
class-spirit which grows up in the various departments of the military organization. This jealousy,
egotism, and stiffness of prejudice were much aggravated by the long peace, in which a great
rusting of the apparatus of the system took place, without at all impairing the complacency
of those who formed a part of it. The old medical officers were incapable, pedantic, and jealous;
and no proper relation had ever been established between them and the military authorities.
The imbecility of the system cost the lives of others than the soldiers who died in hospital.
Brave men arose, as in all such crises, to bear the consequences of other men's mistakes, and
the burden of exposing them; and several physicians and surgeons died, far from home, in the
effort to ameliorate a system which they found unworkable. The greatest benefactor in exhibiting
evils and suggesting remedies, Dr. Alexander, lived to return home, and instigate reforms,
and receive the honors which were his due; but he soon sank under the consequences of his labors.
So did Lord Herbert, the Secretary of War, to whom, in conjunction with Miss Nightingale, the
British army, at home, in India, and everywhere, owes its redemption from special sickness
and undue mortality. In America the advantages may be enjoyed without tax or drawback. The
citizens are accustomed to organize themselves for action of all sorts; and no stiff-necked
classes stand in the way of good management. The difficulty in America must rather be to understand
how anything so perverse as the management of British military hospitals ten years ago can
have existed to so late a date.

It was supposed, ten years since, that there must be nine separate departments in every Military
General Hospital, and the officials bore titles accordingly; but there was such an odd confusion
in their functions that every one of the nine was often seen doing the business of some other.
The medical officers were drawing corks and tasting wines and inspecting provisions, when they
should have been by the bedside. The purveyor was counting the soldiers' money, and noting
its amount, when he should have been marketing, or ordering the giving out of the provisions
for the day. The paymaster could scarcely find time to discharge the bills, so much was his
day filled up with doing eternal sums about the stoppages in the pay of the patients. There
were thirteen kinds of stoppages in the army, three of which were for the sick in hospital:
the paymaster could never be quite certain that he had reckoned rightly with every man to the
last penny; the men were never satisfied; and the confusion was endless. The commissariat,
the purveyor, and the paymaster were all kept waiting to get their books made up, while soldiers
were working the sums,--being called from their proper business to help about the daily task
of the stoppages. Why there should not be one uniform stoppage out of the pay of men in hospital
no person of modern ideas could see; and the paymaster's toils would have been lessened by
more than one-half, if he had had to reckon the deduction from the patients' pay at threepence
or fourpence each, all round, instead of having to deal with thousands per day individually,
under three kinds of charge upon the pay.

The commandant's post was the hardest,--he being supposed to control every province, and have
every official under his orders, and yet being powerless in regard to two or three departments,
the business of which he did not understand. The officers of those departments went each his
own way; and all unity of action in the establishment was lost. This is enough to say of the
old methods.

In the place of them, a far simpler system was proposed at the end of the war. The eternal
dispute as to whether the commandant should be military or medical, a soldier or a civilian,
was set aside by the decision that he should be simply the ablest administrator that could
be found, and be called the Governor, to avoid the military title. Why there should be any
military management of men who are sick as men, and not as soldiers, it is difficult to see;
and when the patients are about to leave the hospital, a stated supervision from the adjutant-general's
department is all that can be required. Thus is all the jealousy between military and medical
authority got rid of. The Governor's authority must be supreme, like that of the commandant
of a fortress, or the commander of a ship. He will not want to meddle in the doctors' professional
business; and in all else he is to be paramount,--being himself responsible to the War-Office.
The office, as thus declared, is equivalent to three of the nine old ones, namely, the Commandant,
the Adjutant-General, and the Quartermaster-General.

Next to the Governor, the Chief Medical Officer must be the most important man in the establishment.
He is to be concerned with professional business only, and to see that all under him are to
be devoted in the same way. For this purpose there must be an end to the system of requisitions.
There must be a Steward, taking his orders from the Governor alone, and administering a simple
and liberal system of diets and appliances of all sorts. It is his business to provide everything
for the consumption of the establishment, and to keep the contractors up to their duty. The
Treasurer's function speaks for itself. All the accounts and payments under the Governor's
warrant are in his charge.

There is one more office, rendered necessary by the various and active service always going
on,--the superintendent of that service, or Captain of the Wards. He is to have the oversight
of the orderlies, cooks, washers, and storekeepers; he is to keep order throughout the house;
and he is to be referred to in regard to everything that is wanted in the wards, except what
belongs to the department of the medical officers or the steward.

As for the medical department, there is now a training provided for such soldiers as wish to
qualify themselves for hospital duty. Formerly, the hospital was served by such men as the
military officers thought fit to spare for the purpose; and they naturally did not send the
best. These men knew nothing of either cleaning wards or nursing patients. Their awkwardness
in sweeping and scouring and making beds was extreme; and they were helpless in case of anything
being wanted to a blister or a sore. One was found, one day, earnestly endeavoring to persuade
his patient to eat his poultice. It is otherwise now. The women, where there are any, ought
to have the entire charge of the sweeping and cleaning,--the housemaid's work of the wards;
and as to the rest, the men of the medical-staff corps have the means of learning how to dress
a blister, and poultice a sore, and apply plasters, lint, and bandages, and administer medicine,
and how to aid the sick in their ablutions, in getting their meals with the least fatigue,
and so on.

Of female nurses it is not necessary to say much in America, any more than in England or France.
They are not admissible into Regimental Hospitals, in a general way; but in great military
and civil hospitals they are a priceless treasure.

The questions in regard to them are two. Shall their office be confined to the care of the
linen and stores, and the supplying of extra diets and comforts? If admitted to officiate in
the wards, how far shall that function extend?

In England, there seems to be a strong persuasion that some time must elapse, and perhaps a
generation of doctors must pass away, before the ministration of female nurses in military
hospitals can become a custom, or even an unquestioned good. No rational person can doubt what
a blessing it would be to the patients to have such nurses administer nourishment, when the
rough orderlies would not have discernment or patience to give the frequent spoonful when the
very life may hang upon it. Nobody doubts that wounds would be cleansed which otherwise go
uncleansed,--that much irritation and suffering would be relieved which there are otherwise
no hands to undertake. Nobody doubts that many lives would be saved in every great hospital
from the time that fevered frames and the flickerings of struggling vitality were put under
the charge of the nurses whom Nature made. But the difficulties and risks are great. On the
whole, it seems to be concluded by those who know best, that only a few female nurses should
be admitted into military and naval hospitals: that they should be women of mature age and
ascertained good sense, thoroughly trained to their business: that they should be the women
who have been, or who would be, the head nurses in other hospitals, and that they should be
paid on that scale: that they should have no responsibility,--being wholly subject to the surgeons
in ward affairs, and to their own superintendent in all others: that no enthusiasts or religious
devotees should be admitted,--because that very qualification shows that they do not understand
the business of nursing: that everything that can be as well done by men should be done by
trained orderlies: that convalescents should, generally speaking, be attended on by men,--and
if not, that each female nurse of convalescents should have a hundred or so in her charge,
whereas of the graver cases forty or fifty are as many as one nurse can manage, with any amount
of help from orderlies. These proposals give some idea of what is contemplated with regard
to the ordinary nurses in a General Military Hospital. The superintendent of the nurses in
each institution must be a woman of high quality and large experience. And she will show her
good sense, in the first place, by insisting on a precise definition of her province, that
there maybe no avoidable ill-will on the part of the medical officers, and no cause of contention
with the captain of service, or whatever the administrator of the interior may be called. She
must have a decisive voice in the choice of her nurses; and she will choose them for their
qualifications as nurses only, after being satisfied as to their character, health, and temper.

No good nurse can endure any fuss about her work and her merits. Enthusiasts and devotees find
immediately that they are altogether out of place in a hospital,--or, as we may now say, they
would find this, if they were ever to enter a hospital: for, in fact, they never now arrive
there. The preparation brings them to a knowledge of themselves; and the two sorts of women
who really and permanently become nurses are those who desire to make a living by a useful
and valued and well-paid occupation, and those who benevolently desire to save life and mitigate
suffering, with such a temper of sobriety and moderation as causes them to endure hardship
and ill-usage with firmness, and to dislike praise and celebrity at least as much as hostility
and evil construction. The best nurses are foremost in perceiving the absurdity and disagreeableness
of such heroines of romance as flourished in the press seven years ago,--young ladies disappointed
in love, who went out to the East, found their lovers in hospital, and went off with them,
to be happy ever after, without any anxiety or shame at deserting their patients in the wards
without leave or notice. Not of this order was Florence Nightingale, whose practical hard work,
personal reserve, and singular administrative power have placed her as high above impeachment
for feminine weaknesses as above the ridicule which commonly attends the striking out of a
new course by man or woman. Those who most honor her, and most desire to follow her example,
are those who most steadily bring their understandings and their hearts to bear upon the work
which she began. Her ill-health has withdrawn her from active nursing and administration; but
she has probably done more towards the saving of life by working in connection with the War-Office
in private than by her best-known deeds in her days of health. Through her, mainly, it is that
every nation has already studied with some success the all-important subject of Health in the
Camp and in the Hospital. It now lies in the way of American women to take up the office, and,
we may trust, to "better the instruction."

       *       *       *       *       *

A STORY OF THANKSGIVING-TIME.

Old Jacob Newell sat despondent beside his sitting-room fire. Gray-haired and venerable, with
a hundred hard lines, telling of the work of time and struggle and misfortune, furrowing his
pale face, he looked the incarnation of silent sorrow and hopelessness, waiting in quiet meekness
for the advent of the King of Terrors: waiting, but not hoping, for his coming; without desire
to die, but with no dread of death.

At a short distance from him, in an ancient straight-backed rocking-chair, dark with age, and
clumsy in its antique carvings, sat his wife. Stiffly upright, and with an almost painful primness
in dress and figure, she sat knitting rapidly and with closed eyes. Her face was rigid as a
mask; the motion in her fingers, as she plied her needles, was spasmodic and machine-like;
the figure, though quiet, wore an air of iron repose that was most uneasy and unnatural. Still,
through the mask and from the figure there stole the aspect and air of one who had within her
deep wells of sweetness and love which only strong training or power of education had thus
covered up and obscured. She looked of that stern Puritanical stock whose iron will conquered
the severity of New England winters and overcame the stubbornness of its granite hills, and
whose idea of a perfect life consisted in the rigorous discharge of all Christian duties, and
the banishment, forever and at all times, of the levity of pleasure and the folly of amusement.
She could have walked, if need were, with composure to the stake; but she could neither have
joined in a game at cards, nor have entered into a romp with little children. All this was
plainly to be seen in the stern repose of her countenance and the stiff harshness of her figure.

Upon the stained deal table, standing a little in the rear and partially between the two, reposed
an open Bible. Between its leaves lay a pair of large, old-fashioned, silver-bowed spectacles,
which the husband had but recently laid there, after reading the usual daily chapter of Holy
Writ. He had ceased but a moment before, and had laid them down with a heavy sigh, for his
heart to-day was sorely oppressed; and no wonder; for, following his gaze around the room,
we find upon the otherwise bare walls five sad mementos of those who had "gone before,"--five
coarse and unartistic, but loving tributes to the dead.

There they hang, framed in black, each with its white tomb and overhanging willow, and severally
inscribed to the memories of Mark, John, James, Martha, and Mary Newell. All their flock. None
left to honor and obey, none to cheer, none to lighten the labor or soothe the cares. All gone,
and these two left behind to travel hand in hand, but desolate, though together, to the end
of their earthly pilgrimage.

There had, indeed, been one other, but for him there hung no loving memorial. He was the youngest
of all, and such a noble, strong, and lusty infant, that the father, in the pride of his heart,
and with his fondness for Scriptural names, had christened him Samson. He, too, had gone; but
in the dread gallery that hung about the room there was no framed funereal picture "To the
Memory of Samson Newell." If in the tomb of his father's or mother's heart he lay buried, no
outward token gave note thereof.

So the old couple sat alone before the sitting-room fire. It was not often used, this room,--scarcely
ever now, except upon Sunday, or on those two grave holidays that the Newells kept,--Thanksgiving-
and Fast-Day. This was Thanksgiving-Day. The snow without was falling thick and fast. It came
in great eddies and white whirls, obscuring the prospect from the windows and scudding madly
around the corners. It lay in great drifts against the fences, and one large pile before the
middle front-window had gathered volume till it reached half up the second row of panes; for
it had snowed all night and half the day before. The roads were so blocked by it that they
would have been rendered impassable but for the sturdy efforts of the farmers' boys, who drove
teams of four and five yokes of oxen through the drifts with heavily laden sleds, breaking
out the ways. The sidewalks in the little village were shovelled and swept clean as fast as
the snow fell; for, though all business was suspended, according to the suggestion in the Governor's
proclamation, and in conformity to old usage, still they liked to keep the paths open on Thanksgiving-Day,--the
paths and the roads; for nearly half the families in the place expected sons and daughters
from far away to arrive on the train which should have been at the railroad-station on the
previous evening, but had been kept back by the snow.

But Jacob and Ruth Newell had neither son nor daughter, grandchild, cousin, relation of any
nearness or remoteness, to expect; for the white snow covered with a cold mantle scores of
mounds in many graveyards where lay their dead. And they sat this day and thought of all their
kindred who had perished untimely,--all save one.

Whether he lived, or whether he had died,--where he lay buried, if buried he were,--or where
he rioted, if still in the land of the living, they had no notion. And why should they care?

He had been a strong-willed and wild lad. He had disobeyed the injunctions of his parents while
yet a boy. He had not loved the stiff, sad Sabbaths, nor the gloomy Saturday nights. He had
rebelled against the austerities of Fast- and Thanksgiving-Days. He had learned to play at
cards and to roll tenpins with the village boys. He had smoked in the tavern bar-room of evenings.
In vain had his father tried to coerce him into better ways; in vain had his mother used all
the persuasions of a maternal pride and fondness that showed themselves only, of all her children,
to this brave, handsome, and reckless boy. He had gone from worse to worse, after the first
outbreaking from the strict home rules, until he had become at length a by-word in the village,
and anxious mothers warned their sons against companionship with wicked Samson Newell,--and
this when he was only seventeen years of age.

Perhaps mildness might have worked well with the self-willed boy, but his father knew nothing
but stern command and prompt obedience in family management; and so the son daily fell away,
until came the inevitable day when his wrong-doing reached a climax and he left his father's
roof forever.

It was on a Thanksgiving-Day, fifteen years ago, that the boy Samson, then seventeen years
old, was brought home drunk and bleeding. He had passed the previous night at a ball at the
tavern, against the express command of his father, who would have gone to fetch him away, but
that he could not bear to enter upon a scene he thought so wicked, and especially upon such
an errand. When the dance was over, the boy had lingered at the bar, drinking glass after glass,
until he got into a fight with the bully of the village, whom he thrashed within an inch of
his life, and then he had sat down in a small side-room with a few choice spirits, with the
avowed purpose of getting drunk over his victory. He had got drunk, "gloriously drunk" his
friends at the tavern styled it, and had been carried in that state home.

Oh, the bitterness of the misery of that Thanksgiving-Day to Jacob Newell! He may live a hundred
years and never know such another.

The next day Samson awoke from a wretched stupor to find himself weak, nervous, and suffering
from a blinding headache. In this condition his father forced him to the barn, and there, with
a heavy raw-hide, flogged him without mercy. That night Samson Newell disappeared, and was
thenceforward seen no more in the village.

The same night one of the village stores was entered, the door of an ancient safe wrenched
open, and something over a hundred dollars in specie taken therefrom. So that on Samson Newell's
head rested the crime of filial disobedience, and the suspicion, amounting, with nearly all,
to a certainty, that he had added burglary to his other wrong-doing.

His name was published in the papers throughout the county, together with a personal description
and the offer of a reward for his arrest and return. But as he was never brought back nor heard
of more, the matter gradually died away and was forgotten by most in the village; the more
so as, from respect and pity for Jacob Newell, it was scarce ever mentioned, except privately.

Eight years elapsed from the time of his flight and supposed crime, when the fellow he had
thrashed at the tavern was arrested, tried, convicted, and sentenced to death for a murder
committed in a midnight tavern-brawl. In a confession that he made he exonerated Samson Newell
from any participation in or knowledge of the burglary for which his reputation had so long
suffered, stating in what manner he had himself committed the deed. So the memory of the erring
son of Jacob Newell was relieved from the great shadow that had darkened it. Still he was never
mentioned by father or mother; and seven years more rolled wearily on, till they sit, to-day,
alone and childless, by the flickering November fire.

Sore trouble had fallen on them since their youngest son had disappeared. One by one, the elder
children had passed away, each winter's snow for five years covered a fresh grave, till the
new afflictions that were in store for them scarcely seemed to affect them otherwise than by
cutting yet deeper into the sunken cheeks the deep lines of sorrow and regret.

Jacob Newell had been known for years as a "forehanded man" in the rural neighborhood. His
lands were extensive, and he had pursued a liberal system of cultivation, putting into the
soil in rich manures more in strength than he took from it, until his farm became the model
one of the county, and his profits were large and ever increasing. Particularly in orchards
of choice fruit did he excel his neighbors, and his apples, pears, and quinces always commanded
the best price in the market. So he amassed wealth, and prospered.

But, unfortunately, after death had taken away his children, and the work in the fields was
all done by hired hands, the old man became impatient of the dulness of life, and a spirit
of speculation seized him. Just at that time, railroad-stock was in high favor throughout the
country. Steam-drawn carriages were to do away with all other modes of public travel, (as,
indeed, they generally have done,) and the fortunate owners of railroad-stock were to grow
rich without trouble in a short time. In particular, a certain line of railroad, to run through
the village where he lived, was to make Jacob Newell and all his neighbors rich. It would bring
a market to their doors, and greatly increase the value of all they produced; but above all,
those who took stock in it would be insured a large permanent income. Better the twenty and
thirty per cent. that must accrue from this source than to loan spare cash at six per cent.,
or invest their surplus in farm improvements. So said a very fluent and agreeable gentleman
from Boston, who addressed the people on the subject at a "Railroad Meeting" held in the town-hall;
and incautious Jacob Newell (hitherto most prudent throughout his life) believed.

Only twenty per cent. was to be paid down; no more, said the circular issued by the directors,
might be required for years; perhaps there would never be any further call: but that would
depend very materially on how generously the farmers through whose lands the road would pass
should give up claims for land-damages. Jacob Newell needed excitement of some sort, and it
took the form of speculation. He believed in the railroad, and subscribed for two hundred shares
of the stock, for which he paid four thousand dollars down. He also gave the company the right
of way where the track crossed his farm.

In six months he was called upon for two thousand dollars more; three months afterwards another
two thousand was wanted; and so it ran till he was obliged to mortgage his farm, and finally
to sell the greater part of it, to meet his subscription. In vain he begged for mercy, and
pleaded the statement that only twenty per cent. would be needed. A new set of directors laughed
him, and others like him, to scorn. He would have sold his stock, but he found it quoted at
only twenty-five cents on the dollar, and that price he could not prevail upon himself to take.

So he sat on this drear Thanksgiving-Day despondent beside his hearth.

It was not strange that on this day there should come into the hearts of both Jacob and Ruth,
his wife, sad and dismal memories. Still his gaze wandered silently about the room, and she
plied unceasingly her stiff, bright knitting-needles. One would have thought her a figure of
stone, sitting so pale and bolt upright, but for the activity of the patiently industrious fingers.

Presently Jacob spoke.

"Ruth," he said, "it is a bitter time for us, and we are sore oppressed; but what does the
Psalmist say to such poor, worn-out creatures as we are?

She made no verbal reply; but there was a nervous flutter in the poor, wan fingers, as she
still plied the needles, and two large tears rolled silently down her checks and fell upon
the white kerchief she wore over her shoulders.

"We have still a house over our heads," continued Jacob, "and wherewithal to keep ourselves
fed and clothed and warmed; we have but a few years more to live; let us thank God for what
blessings He has yet vouchsafed us."

She arose without a word, stiff, angular, ungainly, and they knelt together on the floor.

Meanwhile the snow fell thicker and faster without, and blew in fierce clouds against the windows.
The wind was rising and gaining power, and it whistled wrathfully about the house, howling
as in bitter mockery at the scene within. Sometimes it swelled into wild laughter, and again
dropped into low and plaintive wailings. It was very dismal out in the cold, and hardly more
cheerful in the warm sitting-room, where those two jaded souls knelt in earnest prayer.

       *       *       *       *       *

A railway-train was fast in a snow-bank. There it had stuck, unable to move either backward
or forward, since nine o'clock on Wednesday evening; it was now Thursday morning, the snow
was still falling, and still seemed likely to fall, blocking up more and more the passage of
the unfortunate train. There were two locomotives, with a huge snow-plough on the forward one,
a baggage and express-car, and four cars filled with passengers. Two hundred people, all anxious,
most of them grumbling, were detained there prisoners, snow-bound and helpless. It was a hard
case, for they were more than two miles distant--with three feet depth of snow between--from
the nearest house. The nearest village was five miles away at least.

It was Thanksgiving-Day, too, and they had almost all of them "lotted" upon a New-England Thanksgiving-dinner
with old friends, brothers, fathers, mothers, and grandparents. And there they were, without
so much as a ration of crackers and cheese.

It was noticeable that the women on the train--and there were quite a number, and most of them
with children in their arms or by their sides--made, as a general rule, less disturbance and
confusion than the men. The children, however, were getting very hungry and noisy by this Thanksgiving-morning.

In one of the cars were clustered as fine a family-group as the eye would desire to rest upon.
It consisted of a somewhat large and florid, but firmly and compactly built man of thirty years
or thereabout, a woman, evidently his wife and apparently some two or three years younger,
and three beautiful children.

The man was large in frame, without being coarse, with a chest broad and ample as a gymnast's,
and with arms whose muscular power was evident at every movement. His hair and beard (which
latter he wore full, as was just beginning to be the custom) were dark brown in color, and
thick and strong almost to coarseness in texture; his eye was a clear hazel, full, quick, and
commanding, sometimes almost fierce; while an aquiline nose, full, round forehead, and a complexion
bronzed by long exposure to all sorts of weather, gave him an aspect to be noted in any throng
he might be thrown into. There was a constant air of pride and determination about the man,
which softened, however, whenever his glance fell upon wife or children. At such times his
face lighted up with a smile of peculiar beauty and sweetness.

The woman was of middle size, with fair hair, inclining towards auburn, blue eyes, and a clear
red and white complexion. Her expression was one of habitual sweetness and good-humor, while
a continual half-smile played about her rosy mouth. She was plump, good-natured, and cozy,--altogether
a most lovable and delicious woman.

This pair, with their bright-looking children, occupied two seats near the stove, and were
in constant pleasant converse, save when an occasional anxious and impatient shadow flitted
across the face of the husband and father. On the rack over their heads reposed a small travelling-bag,
which the day before had been filled with luncheon for the children. Upon its bottom was painted
in small white letters the name, "Samson Newell."

It was, indeed, the long-lost son, returning on this day to answer, so much as in him lay,
the prayers repeated for fifteen years by his father and mother,--returning to see his former
home once more, and here, nearly on the threshold, stopped by a snow-storm almost unprecedented
at that season. There was occasional bitterness in his impatience at the wearying detention,
but he controlled it as well as he was able.

During the night the passengers had been quiet and uncomplaining. Wood taken from the tenders
of the two locomotives in small quantities, and, when the engineers stopped the supplies in
that quarter, rails torn from neighboring fences and broken up for firewood, kept them warm;
but after the day had dawned, when the little treasures of luncheon were exhausted, and all
began to feel the real pangs of hunger, things assumed a more serious aspect. Children in all
the cars were crying for breakfast, and even the older passengers began to feel cross and jaded.

One pleasant fellow, with an apparently inexhaustible flask of whiskey in his pocket, and good-humor
oozing from every pore of his jolly countenance, passed from car to car, retailing a hundred
jokes to every fresh batch of listeners. But presently the passengers began to tire of his
witticisms, and one after another "poohed" and "pshawed" at him as he approached. Then with
infinite good-nature and philosophy he retired to one of the saloons and peacefully fell asleep.

Almost equally amusing was a wizened, bent, and thin old man, draped from head to foot in coarse
butternut-colored homespun, and called "Old Woollen" by the funny fellow, who walked from car
to car bewailing his hard lot.

"I've left the old woman to home," he whined, "with all the things on her hands, an' more 'n
fifty of our folks comin' to eat dinner with us to-day; an' I've got a note of a hundred an'
fifty dollars to pay,--to-morrow's the last day of grace,--an' I've been sixty-five mile to
get the money to pay it. Now look here!" suddenly and sharply to the Funny Man, "what do you
think o' that?"

"Old Woollen," said the Funny Man, with a tremulous voice and tears in his eyes, "it's a hard
case!"

"So't is! That's a fact! Call an' see us, when you come round our way!"

And the old gentleman, greatly mollified by the sympathy of his new friend, moved on to find
fresh auditors for his tale of woe.

It came to be nine o'clock on the morning of Thanksgiving-Day, and still the snow fell with
unabated violence, and still drifts piled higher and higher about the captive train. The conductor
and one of the firemen had started off on foot at early dawn in search of food for the passengers,
and now there arrived, ploughing nearly breast-high through the snow, a convoy from one of
the nearest farm-houses carefully guarding a valuable treasure of bread, cheese, bacon, eggs,
and pumpkin-pies; but so many were the mouths to fill that it scarcely gave a bite apiece to
the men, after the women and children had been cared for.

Then the passengers began to grow clamorous. Even the Funny Man had his woes, for some rogue
entered the saloon where he slept and stole the whiskey-flask from his pocket. When he awoke
and discovered his loss, he remarked that he knew where there was more of the same sort, and
turned over to sleep again. But all were not so philosophical as he. Some cursed the railroad
company, some cursed the fate that had placed them there, some cursed their folly in leaving
comfortable quarters in order to fast in the snow on Thanksgiving-Day.

Presently the impatiently-pulled-out watches showed ten o'clock, and still it snowed. Then
a rumor ran through the train that there were a couple of barrels of chickens, ready-dressed
for market, in the express-car, and a general rush in that direction followed. One of the first
to hear of it, and one of the first to be on the spot, was Samson Newell.

"Stand back, gentlemen," he cried to the foremost of the throng that poured eagerly into the
car,--"stand back a moment. This poultry is in charge of the express messenger, and we have
no right to take it without his license."

As he spoke, he placed himself beside the messenger. There was a determination in his eye and
manner that held the crowd back for a short time.

"The chickens are mine," the messenger said; "I bought them on speculation; they will spoil
before I can get anywhere with them, and they are now too late for Thanksgiving. You may have
them for what I gave."

"I will give five dollars towards paying for them"; and Samson Newell drew out his pocket-book.

"Here's a dollar!" "I'll give a half!" "Count me in for two dollars!" cried the crowd, favorably
struck with the notion of paying for their provender.

But one hulking fellow, with a large mock diamond in his shirt-front, and clumsy rings on his
coarse and dirty fingers, stepped forward and said that he was a hungry man, that he had lost
money by the---- company already, waiting a day and a night in that blamed snow-bank, and that
he was going to have a chicken,--or two chickens, if he wanted them,--and he was decidedly
of the opinion that there was no express messenger on the train who would see the color of
his money in the transaction.

Samson Newell was evidently a man of few words in a case of emergency. He paused for only an
instant to assure himself that the man was in earnest, then he slid open one of the side-doors
of the express-car, and stretched forth a hand whose clutch was like the closing of a claw
of steel. He seized the bejewelled stranger by the coat-collar, shook him for an instant, and
dropped him,--dropped him into a soft snow-drift whose top was level with the car-floor. Whether
the unfortunate worked a subterranean passage to one of the passenger-cars and there buried
himself in the privacy of a saloon is not known; he certainly was not seen again till after
relief came to the imprisoned train.

There was neither noise nor confusion in the matter of paying for and dividing the poultry.
Samson Newell had already made himself prominent among the captive travellers. He had eaten
nothing himself, that he might the better provide, so far as his limited provision went, for
his wife and children; he had even gone through the cars with his scanty luncheon of cakes
and apples, and economically fed other people's little ones, besides administering to the wants
of an invalid lady upon the train, who was journeying alone. He was, therefore, a favorite
with all on board. His action, enforcing payment for the provision that would very likely,
but for him, have been taken by force, caused the passengers to defer to him as a leader whose
strength and courage fitted him for the post, and so he presided at the distribution of the
chickens without dispute.

The fuel in the stoves was replenished, and quite a large space was cleared to the leeward
of the locomotive, where a fire was built from the neighboring fences, so that in an hour's
time from the finding of the poultry the entire body of passengers were busy picking the bones
of roasted and broiled fowls. It was not so bad a dinner! To be sure, it was rather chilly,
now and then, when the opening of a car-door, to let in a half-frozen gentleman with a half-cooked
chicken in his hand, admitted with him a snow-laden blast from without; and then the viands
were not served à la Soyer, but there was an appetite for sauce and a certain gypsy-like feeling
of being at a picnic that served as a relish. And so, in the year of our Lord 18--, two hundred
strangers sat down together at a most extraordinary Thanksgiving-dinner, of which no account
has hitherto been published, if I except a vote of thanks, "together with an exceedingly chaste
and richly chased silver goblet," (so the newspaper description read,) which were presented
to the conductor by "the surviving passengers," after he had procured help and rescued them
from their perplexing predicament.

But dinners end. Twelve o'clock came, and still the snow was falling thick and fast, and still
the white plain about them mounted slowly and surely towards the skies. Then the passengers
became yet more weary and unhappy. Old Woollen, the unfortunate, detailed his woes to more
and more appreciative audiences. Even the Funny Man--with a fresh flask of whiskey--sighed
almost dismally between frequent uneasy "cat-naps." And Samson Newell, first seeing his wife
comfortably settled, and his little ones safely disposed about her, strode up and down, from
car to car, with a gloom of disappointment on his face that was almost ferocious. "Too bad!"
he muttered, "too bad! too bad! too bad!"

One o'clock came, and the snow held up! At first the passengers noticed that the flakes fell
less thickly. Then, gradually and ever slowly decreasing, they finally ceased falling altogether.
The clouds drifted from before the face of the heavens, and the sun came out. It shone over
a broad surface of glistening snow, with here and there a fence-post obtruding into notice,
but otherwhere a cold, blank expanse of whiteness. One or two remote farm-houses, with blue
smoke rising in thin, straight columns from their chimneys, a wide stretch of woodland to the
right, distant hills bounding all the prospect,--and everywhere snow. No fences, no roads,
no paths,--but only snow!

The passengers gazed out of the windows or stood upon the platforms,--drawn thither by the
warmth of the sun,--with feelings almost akin to despair. Presently it was proposed to make
for the farm-houses, and fifteen of the more adventurous started. A few struggled through and
arrived in something over an hour at the nearest house, wet to the skin with melted snow, and
too much fatigued to think of returning,--but most of them gave out at the end of the first
half-mile, and came back to the train.

So the prisoners sat down and whiled away the time as best they might, in the relation of anecdotes,
telling stories, and grumbling. A few slept, and a large number tried to do so, without success.

The slow hand of Time, moving more slowly for them than they remembered it to have ever moved
before, crept on to three o'clock, and still there was no prospect of relief and no incident
of note save the arrival through the snow of a dozen men sent by the conductor. They brought
word that help was approaching from the nearest station where a sufficiently powerful locomotive
could be obtained, and that they would probably be started on their way during the next forenoon.
These messengers also brought a small supply of provisions and a number of packs of cards,
with the latter of which many of the passengers were soon busy. They now resigned themselves
to another night in the drift.

But at half after three occurred an incident that restored hope of a more speedy deliverance
to a few of the captives.

Through the low pine-lands to the right ran a road which was very thoroughly protected from
drifting snow by the overhanging trees, and along this road there now appeared two pair of
oxen. In front of the oxen were five men armed with wooden snow-shovels, with which they beat
down and scattered the snow. Behind all was a small, square box on runners. It was very small
and contained only one board seat. Three persons could sit and three stand in it: no more.

Upon the appearance of this squad of road-breakers with their team, three hearty cheers went
up from the train. They were immediately answered by the approach of the apparent leader of
the expedition. He was a small, active, spare old fellow, so incrusted with frozen snow, which
hung all over him in tiny white pellets, as to resemble more an active, but rather diminutive
white bear, than anything else known to Natural History. He scrambled and puffed through the
snow till he found a mounting-place upon an unseen fence, when he arose two or three feet above
the surrounding surface, and spoke,--

"There's five on us, an' two yoke."

A pause.

"Two yoke yender, an' five on us."

"Well! supposing there is?" from the train.

"Five mile to town," continued the White Bear, "an' been sence nine this mornin' gittin' here.
Five times five is twenty-five, but, seein' it's you, I'll call it twelve 'n' 'arf."

"Call what 'twelve 'n' 'arf,' Sheep-Shanks?" from the train.

"That man don't ride, nohow! I've marked him! I don't cal'late to take no sarse this trip!
Take any six or eight for twelve dollars an' fifty cents right straight to the tahvern! Who bids?"

"I'll give you fifteen dollars, my friend, to take myself, my wife, and three children to the
village."

It was Samson Newell who spoke.

"'M offered fifteen," cried the White Bear, pricking up his ears; "goin' to the tahvern at
fifteen; who says fifteen 'n' arf?"

"I do!" from a pursy passenger with a double chin and a heavy fob-chain.

He glanced round a little savagely, having made his bid, as who should say, "And I should like
to see the man who will raise it!"

"'N' 'arf! 'n' 'arf! 'n' 'arf! 'n' 'arf!" cried the White Bear, growing much excited,--"an'
who says sixteen?"

Samson Newell nodded.

"Sixteen dollars! sixteen! sixteen! We can't tarry, gentlemen!"

The White Bear proved the truth of this latter assertion by suddenly disappearing beneath the
snow. He reappeared in an instant and resumed his outcry.

"I see the gentleman's sixteen," quoth the man who had called the White Bear "Sheep-Shanks,"
"and go fifty cents better!"

"I see you," replied the auctioneer, "an' don't take your bid! Who says sixteen 'n' 'arf?"

"I do!" quoth the Double Chin; and he glowered upon his fellow-passengers wrathfully.

At this instant appeared Old Woollen on the scene. In one hand he bore his pocket-book; in
the other, a paper covered with calculations. The latter he studied intently for a moment, then,--

"I'll give you sixteen dollars an' sixty-two 'n' a half cents; an' if you ever come round our
way"--

The jubilant auctioneer, fairly dancing upon the fence in the energy of his delight, broke
in here,--

"Can't take no bids, gentlemen, short of a half-dollar rise, each time!"

Old Woollen retired, discomfited, and was seen no more.

From this point the bidding ran up rapidly till it reached twenty-five dollars, where it stopped,
Samson Newell being the successful bidder.

It was a study to watch the man, now that his chance for reaching home that day brightened.
Instead of being elate, his spirits seemed to fall as he made his arrival at the village certain.

"Ah!" he thought, "are my father and mother yet living? How will my brothers and sisters welcome
me home?"

How, indeed?

       *       *       *       *       *

In the village where dwelt Jacob Newell and his wife, an old man, lame and totally blind, had
been for over thirty years employed by the town to ring the meetinghouse-bell at noon, and
at nine o'clock in the evening. For this service, the salary fixed generations before was five
dollars, and summer and winter, rain or shine, he was always at his post at the instant.

When the old man rang the evening-bell on the Thanksgiving-Day whereof I write, he aroused
Jacob and his wife from deep reverie.

"Oh, Jacob!" said the latter, "such a waking dream as I have had! I thought they all stood
before me,--all,--every one,--none missing! And they were little children again, and had come
to say their prayers before going to bed! They were all there, and I could not drive it from
my heart that I loved Samson best!"

His name had hardly been mentioned between them for fifteen years.

Jacob Newell, with a strange look, as though he were gazing at some dimly defined object afar
off, slowly spoke,--

"I have thought sometimes that I should like to know where he lies, if he is dead,--or how
he lives, if he be living. Shall we meet him? Shall we meet him? Five goodly spirits await
us in heaven; will he be there, also? Oh, no! he was a bad, bad, bad son, and he broke his
father's heart!"

"He was a bad son, Jacob, giddy and light-headed, but not wholly bad. Oh, he was so strong,
so handsome, so bright and brave! If he is living, I pray God that he may come back to see
us for a little, before we follow our other lost ones!"

"If he should come back," said Jacob, turning very white, but speaking clearly and distinctly,
"I would drive him from my door, and tell him to be gone forever! A wine-bibber, dissolute,
passionate, headstrong, having no reverence for God or man, no love for his mother, no sense
of duty towards his father; I have disowned him, once and forever, and utterly cast him out!
Let him beware and not come back to tempt me to curse him!"

Still from the distance, overpowering and drowning the headlong rush of passion, came the soft
booming of the evening-bell.

"I hear the church-bell, Jacob: we have not long to hear it. Let us not die cursing our son
in our hearts. God gave him to us; and if Satan led him astray, we know not how strong the
temptation may have been, nor how he may have fought against it."

Jacob Newell had nought to say in answer to this, but, from the passion in his heart, and from
that egotism that many good men have whose religious education has taught them to make their
personal godliness a matter to vaunt over, he spoke, foolishly and little to the point,--

"Ruth, did Satan ever lead me astray?"

"God knows!" she replied.

There came a rap at the door.

The melody of the church-bell was fast dying away. The last cadences of sound, the last quiver
in the air, when the ringer had ceased to ring and the hammer struck the bell no more, lingered
still, as a timid and uncertain tapping fell upon the door.

"Come in!" said Jacob Newell.

The door was slowly opened.

Then there stood within it a tall, muscular man, a stranger in those parts, with a ruddy face,
and a full, brown beard. He stood grasping the door with all his might, and leaning against
it as for support. Meanwhile his gaze wandered about the room with a strange anxiety, as though
it sought in vain for what should assuredly have been found there.

"Good evening, Sir," said Jacob Newell.

The stranger made no reply, but still stood clinging to the door, with a strange and horrible
expression of mingled wonder and awe in his face.

"'Tis a lunatic!" whispered Ruth to her husband.

"Sir," said Jacob, "what do you want here to-night?"

The stranger found voice at length, but it was weak and timorous as that of a frightened child.

"We were on the train, my wife and I, with our three little ones,--on the train snowed in five
miles back,--and we ask, if you will give it, a night's lodging, it being necessary that we
should reach home without paying for our keeping at the hotel. My wife and children are outside
the door, and nearly frozen, I assure you."

Then Ruth's warm heart showed itself.

"Come in," she said. "Keep you?--of course we can. Come in and warm yourselves."

A sweet woman, with one child in her arms, and two shivering beside her, glided by the man
into the room. They were immediately the recipients of the good old lady's hospitality; she
dragged them at once, one and all, to the warmest spot beside the hearth.

Still the man stood, aimless and uncertain, clutching the door and swaying to and fro.

"Why do you stand there at the door? Why not come in?" said Jacob Newell. "You must be cold
and hungry. Ruth--that's my wife, Sir--will get you and your family some supper."

Then the man came in and walked with an unsteady step to a chair placed for him near the fire.
After he had seated himself he shook like one in an ague-fit.

"I fear you are cold," said Ruth.

"Oh, no!" he said.

His voice struggled to his lips with difficulty and came forth painfully.

The old lady went to a corner cupboard, and, after a moment's search, brought forth a black
bottle, from which she poured something into a glass. It smelt like Jamaica rum. With this
she advanced towards the stranger, but she was bluntly stopped by Jacob,--

"I am afraid the gentleman has had too much of that already!"

For an instant, like a red flash of lightning, a flush of anger passed across his features
before the stranger meekly made answer that he had tasted no liquor that day. Ruth handed him
the glass and he drained it at a gulp. In a moment more he sat quietly upright and proceeded
gravely to divest himself of his heavy shawl and overcoat, after which he assisted in warming
and comforting the children, who were growing sleepy and cross.

Ruth bustled about with her preparations for giving the strangers a comfortable supper, and
Jacob and his unexpected guest entered into conversation.

"I used to be acquainted hereabout," the stranger began, "and I feel almost like getting among
friends, whenever I visit the place. I rode over with old Gus Parker to-day, from where the
train lies bedded near the five-mile cut, but I was too busy keeping the children warm to ask
him any questions. I came here because your son Mark Newell and I were old cronies at school
together. I--I don't see him here to-night,"--the stranger's voice trembled now,--"where is he?"

"Where we must all follow him, sooner or later,--in the grave!"

"But he had brothers,--I've heard him say," the stranger continued,--with an anxiety in his
tone that he could by no means conceal; "I believe he had--let me see--three brothers and two
sisters. Where are they?"

"All gone!" cried Jacob Newell, rising and pacing the room. Then suddenly facing his singular
guest, he continued, speaking rapidly and bitterly, "You have three children,--I had six! Yours
are alive and hearty; but so were mine; and when I was a young man, like you, I foolishly thought
that I should raise them all, have them clustering around me in my old age, die before any
of them, and so know no bereavements! To-day I stand here a solitary old man, sinking rapidly
into the grave, and without a relation of any kind, that I know of, on the face of the earth!
Think that such a fate may yet be yours! But the bitterness of life you will not fully know,
unless one of your boys--as one of mine did--turns out profligate and drunken, leaves your
fireside to associate with the dissolute, and finally deserts his home and all, forever!"

"I should say, 'For fifteen years you have deserted me without giving mark or token that you
were in the body; now you have come to see me die, and you may stay to bury me!' I should say
that, I think, though I swore to Ruth but now that I would curse him, if ever he returned,--curse
him and drive him from my door!"

"But if he came back penitent indeed for past follies and offences, and only anxious to do
well in the future,--if your son should come in that way, convincing you with tears of his
sincerity, you surely would be more gentle to him than that! You would put away wrath, would
you not? I ask you," the stranger continued, with emotion, "because I find myself in the position
we suppose your son to be placed in. I am going home after an absence of years, during all
which time I have held no communication with my family. I have sojourned in foreign lands,
and now I come to make my father and my mother happy, if it be not too late for that! I come
half hoping and half fearing; tell me what I am to expect? Place yourself in my father's position
and read me my fate!"

While he spoke, his wife, sitting silent by the fire, bent low over the child she held, and
a few quiet tears fell upon the little one's frock.

Ruth Newell, moving back and forth, in the preparation of the stranger's supper, wore an unquiet
and troubled aspect, while the old farmer himself was agitated in a manner painful to see.
It was some seconds before he broke the silence. When he spoke, his voice was thick and husky.

"If I had a son like you,--if those little children were my grandchildren,--if the sweet lady
there was my son's wife,--ah, then!----But it is too late! Why do you come here to put turbulent,
raging regrets into my heart, that but for you would be beating calmly as it did yesterday,
and the day before, and has for years? Ah! if my son were indeed here! If Samson were indeed here!"

The stranger half arose, as though to spring forward, then sank back into his seat again.

But the little child sitting in her mother's lap by the fire clapped her hands and laughed
a childish, happy laugh.

"What pleases my little girl?" asked the mother.

"Why, 'Samson'" the child said,--"that's what you call papa!"

Then Ruth, who stood by the table with a pitcher of water in her hand, staggered backwards
like one stricken a violent and sudden blow!--staggered backwards, dropping the pitcher with
a heavy crash as she retreated, and crossing her hands upon her bosom with quick, short catchings
of the breath! Then crying, "My son! my son!" she threw herself, with one long, long sob, upon
the stranger's neck!

       *       *       *       *       *

The story is told. What lay in his power was done by the returned prodigal, who did not come
back empty-handed to the paternal roof. His wife and children fostered and petted the old people,
till, after the passage of two or three more Thanksgiving-Days, they became as cheerful as
of old, and they are now considered one of the happiest couples in the county. Do not, on that
account, O too easily influenced youth, think that happiness for one's self and others is usually
secured by dissolute habits in early life, or by running away from home. Half the occupants
of our jails and alms-houses can tell you to the contrary.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG IN A DREAM.

  Winter rose-leaves, silver-white,
    Drifting o'er our darling's bed,--
  He's asleep, withdrawn from sight,--
    All his little prayers are said,
  And he droops his shining head.

  Winter rose-leaves, falling still,
    Go and waken his sad eyes,
  Touch his pillowed rest, until
    He shall start with glad surprise,
  And from slumber sweet arise!

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLAND AND EMANCIPATION.

In the British House of Commons, some eighty years ago, two newly chosen members took their
places, each of whom afterwards became distinguished in the history of that body. They had
become acquainted at the University of Cambridge, were strongly united by friendship, and had
each, on attaining to manhood, formed the deliberate purpose of entering public life. Of these
two, one was William Pitt, the other was William Wilberforce.

Neither of these members of Parliament had at this time passed the age of twenty-one, and the
latter was of extremely youthful appearance. Small of stature and slight in frame, his delicate
aspect was redeemed from effeminacy by a head of classic contour, a penetrating and melodious
voice, an address which always won attention. His superior social endowments were fully recognized
by the companions of his leisure; nor was his influence lessened by the fact, that by the death
of his father and uncle he had become the only male representative of his family and the master
of a goodly inheritance. He paid from the first close attention to the business of the House,
and, though by no means anxious to be heard, showed, that, when called out by any occasion,
he was fully competent to meet it. Representing his native city of Hull, his first public speech
was on a topic immediately connected with her interests.

The brilliant career of Mr. Pitt commenced, as the reader knows, in early life. Passing by
the mental exploits of his boyhood, we meet him at his entrance upon the public service. He
had no sooner become a member of the House of Commons than it began to be remarked that in
him appeared to be reproduced those same qualities of statesmanship which had marked his illustrious
father, Lord Chatham. Such powers, evinced by one who was but just stepping upon the stage
of public life, first excited surprise, which was quickly followed by admiration. That strength
of thought and keenness of analysis, which, seizing upon a subject, bring out at once its real
elements of importance, and present them in their practical bearings, deducing the course dictated
by a wise policy, had hitherto been regarded, by those who found themselves the willing auditors
of a youth, as the ripened fruits of experience alone.

England was at this time at war not only with her American colonies, but with France, Spain,
and Holland. Weakened by these prolonged conflicts, her finances drained, her huge debt increasing
every day, her condition called loudly for a change of policy. The cause of American Independence
was not without its advocates in the House, and among these Mr. Pitt was soon found, uttering
his sentiments without reserve. Probably no individual of that body exerted a stronger influence
than he in securing for this country the full recognition of her rights. Of the manner in which
he was accustomed to treat of the American War, here is a single specimen. After speaking of
it as "conceived in injustice, brought forth and nurtured in folly," and continually draining
the country of its vital resources of men and treasure, he proceeds:--

"And what had the British nation gained in return? Nothing but a series of ineffective victories
and severe defeats,--victories celebrated only by a temporary triumph over our brethren, whom
we were endeavoring to trample down and destroy,--which filled the land with mourning for dear
and valuable relatives slain in the vain attempt to enforce unconditional submission, or with
narratives of the glorious exertions of men struggling under every difficulty and disadvantage
in the sacred cause of liberty. Where was the Englishman, who, on reading the accounts of these
sanguinary and well-fought battles, could refrain from lamenting the loss of so much British
blood spilled in such a contest, or from weeping, whichever side victory might be declared?"

It was not unusual for Mr. Pitt, when he addressed the House on a topic of sufficient magnitude
to call forth his powers, to be followed by plaudits so loud and long-continued that the next
speaker found difficulty in securing quiet in order to be heard. While in the youth was recognized
the sagacity of the late Lord Chatham, it was declared that the eloquence of the father was
exceeded by that of the son. Signal services to the country were augured, even by his opponents,
from one of such extraordinary abilities and manifest integrity of purpose. He began to be
looked upon as capable of holding the highest trusts, fitted for the gravest responsibilities.
Hardly can history furnish a parallel to the case of so young a person solicited by his sovereign
to take the lead of his administration, and declining the honor. Yet such, in this instance,
was the fact.

A change in the Ministry having become necessary, it was proposed that Mr. Pitt should be appointed
First Lord of the Treasury in the place of Lord Shelburne. That this appointment should be
made was known to be expressly desired by the King. The friends of the young statesman were
delighted. They advised by all means that the offer should at once be accepted. But, undazzled
by his own unprecedented success, he weighed the matter coolly and deliberately.

That Mr. Pitt had a due sense of his own powers is evident. Early in his political life he
had expressed his unwillingness to hold office under circumstances where he must execute measures
which had originated in other minds rather than his own. As this was declining beforehand all
subordinate office, an excessive modesty could hardly have been the cause of his backwardness
at this juncture. It must be sought elsewhere. It is found in the opinion which he entertained
that the Ministry now about to be formed could never be an efficient one. The union which had
recently taken place between parties whose political enmity had been extreme indicated to him
an equally extreme opposition to the Government. The coalition between Lord North and Mr. Fox
would, he anticipated, be the occasion of such a tide of hostility in the House of Commons
as he was too wary to be willing to stem.

It was argued that he was needed; that an exigency had arisen which no one but himself could
adequately meet; the country, in her adverse hour, must have his services; the King desired
them, solicited them. With a remarkable degree of reticence he declined all these overtures,
and in a letter addressed to his sovereign gave a most respectful, but decided negative.

Yet fame still followed him, and honor and office still claimed him as their rightful recipient.
With the lapse of time came changes, and public affairs presented themselves in new and unexpected
aspects. The vast empire of the East loomed up before the vision of statesmen and legislators
in hitherto unimagined splendors, and with claims upon attention which could not be set aside.
At the India House considerations of momentous interest had arisen. Mr. Pitt entered deeply
into these affairs, connected as they were with the onward progress of British rule in Hindostan.
A crisis occurred at this time, in which, having the power, he could serve his country with
manifest advantage to her interests. At this juncture the offer of the King was renewed. It
came now just at the right time, and the young statesman was found as ready to accept as he
had before been prompt to decline. Mr. Pitt became the Prime-Minister of George III., and henceforth
his history is blended with the movements of the Government.

Mr. Wilberforce had also at this time taken a strong hold upon public life. His energies were
enlisted in favor of the Governmental party, of which Mr. Pitt had become the leader. Returning
from a journey into France, which they had made together, these two friends entered upon their
respective duties. With regard to the question at issue, Yorkshire, the largest county in England,
had not yet defined her position with a sufficient degree of distinctness. Here Mr. Wilberforce
possessed landed estates, and here he was prepared to uphold the consistency and integrity
of the Administration. That peculiar persuasive power, that silver-toned eloquence, which in
after years won for him so much influence in the House of Commons, here perhaps for the first
time found full play and triumphant success. His power over the minds of men certainly was
brought to a rigorous test.

It was on a chilly day, amid falling hail, that he addressed a crowd of people in the castle-yard
at York. They had listened already to several speakers, were weary, and about to separate,
when Mr. Wilberforce appeared on the stand and began to speak. Silence was at once secured,
and so perfectly were they swayed by his words that all signs of opposition or impatience disappeared.
For more than an hour, notwithstanding unfavorable circumstances, he held their attention,
winning them to harmony with his own political views. This was not all. Before the assembly
dispersed, it was whispered from one to another, "We must have this man for our county member."
The election of a member for Yorkshire was nigh at hand, and when its results were made known,
he found himself in the influential position of "a representative of the tenth part of England."

To this same member for Yorkshire, in conjunction with the Prime-Minister of England, we are
indebted for the first Parliamentary agitation of a topic which has since been fruitful enough
in discussion, --AFRICAN SLAVERY.

The introduction of this subject into Parliament, during the administration of Pitt, was by
no means the fruit of a sudden impulse, but was rather the matured expression of a series of
preliminary efforts. In private circles, the Slave-Trade had been already denounced and protested
against, as unworthy of a civilized, not to say a Christian people. In certain quarters, too,
the press had become the exponent of these sentiments. Possibly, in their beginnings, no person
did more in the exertion of those means which have wrought into the heart of the English people
such undying hatred to Negro Slavery than the amiable recluse whose writings can never die
so long as lovers of poetry continue to live. Who has not at times turned away from the best-loved
of the living poets, to regale himself with the compact, polished, sweetly ringing numbers
of Cowper? On the subject of Slavery he had already given expression to his thoughts in language
which at the present day, in certain portions of the United States, must subject his works
to a strict expurgatorial process. He had exposed to the world the injustice of the system,
and had thrown around his words the magic of song.

It would not, of course, be possible to proceed in these reminiscences without coming at once
upon the names of Granville Sharp and Thomas Clarkson. The clerk who became a law-student,
that he might be qualified to substantiate the truth that a slave could not exist on British
soil, the Cambridge graduate, awakened by the preparation of his own prize-essay to a sympathy
with the slave, which never, during a long life, flagged for an hour, need not be eulogized
to-day. The latter of these gentlemen repeatedly visited Mr. Wilberforce and conferred with
him upon this subject, imparting to him the fruit of his own careful and minute investigations.
These consisted of certain well-authenticated items of information and documentary evidence
concerning the trade and the cruelties growing out of it. The public efforts which followed,
though hardly originated by these conferences, were probably hastened by them. Nor should it
be forgotten that a small knot of individuals, mostly Quakers, had associated themselves under
the name of "The London Committee." This, if not an anti-slavery society, was the nucleus of
what afterwards became one. These hitherto unrecognized efforts were about to receive fresh
encouragement and acquire new efficiency. The influences which had worked in silence and among
a few were about to be brought out to the light.

It was on the 5th of May, 1788, that a motion was introduced into the House of Commons having
for its object the abolition of the Slave-Trade. It was brought forward by Mr. Pitt. He intended
to secure its discussion early in the next session. Mr. Wilberforce, he hoped, would then be
present, whose seat was now vacant by reason of severe illness. He had been, indeed, at one
time, given over by his physicians, but had been assured by Mr. Pitt, that, even in case of
a fatal result of his disease, the cause of African freedom should not die.

The idea of possible legislation on this subject was no sooner broached than it was at once
taken up and found able advocates. Here Pitt and Fox were of one mind, and were supported by
the veteran advocate for justice and right, Edmund Burke. The latter had some years before
attempted to call attention to this very subject. Certain Bristol merchants, his wealthy constituents,
had thus been grievously offended at the aberrations of the representative of their city. As
early as 1780 he had drawn up an elaborate "Negro Code," of which it may be said, that, had
some of its regulations been heeded, at least one leaf in the world's history would have presented
a different reading from that which it now bears. Mr. Burke was at this time in the decline
of life, and was well pleased that other and younger advocates were enlisted in the same great
cause.

A bill was brought forward at this session, by one of the friends of the cause, Sir W. Dolben,
for lessening immediately the cruelties of the trade. It will be remembered that up to this
time slave-ships had sailed up the Thames all unmolested, were accustomed to fit out for their
voyages, and, having disposed of their cargoes, to return. A vessel of this description had
arrived at the port of London. The subject of the traffic having become invested with interest,
a portion of the members of the House paid a visit to the ill-starred craft. The deplorably
narrow quarters where hundreds of human beings were to be stowed away during the weeks that
might be necessary to make their passage produced upon the minds of these gentlemen a most
unfavorable impression. The various insignia of the trade did not tend to lessen this, but
rather changed disgust into horror. Something must be done for the reformation of these abuses,
and that immediately. The bill for regulating the trade passed both Houses, notwithstanding
a vigorous opposition, and became a law. By the provisions of this bill the trade was so restricted
that owners and officers of vessels were forbidden by law to receive such excessive cargoes
as they had hitherto done. The number of slaves should henceforth be limited and regulated
by the tonnage of the ship. This was something gained. But the anti-slavery party, though in
its infancy, had already begun to show the features of its maturer days. Its strenuous and
uncompromising nature began to manifest itself. The law for regulating the trade displeased
the members who sought its abolition. They were, however, pacified by the assurance that this
was by no means regarded as a remedy for the evil, but simply as a check upon its outrages.

In the spring of the following year, in pursuance of Mr. Pitt's motion, the subject was again
brought forward. Mr. Wilberforce was now ready for the occasion, and on the 12th of May, 1789,
in a speech of three hours and a half, he held the attention of the House, while he unfolded
the African Slave-Trade in its several points of view,--its nature, being founded in injustice,
its cruelties, the terrible mortality of the slave-ship, the demoralizing influence of the
trade upon British sailors, and the astonishing waste of life among them, as well as among
the captive negroes.

The speech was declared to be one of the ablest ever delivered before the House. The speaker
was also well sustained by Pitt and Fox. Mr. Burke said of this performance,--"The House, the
nation, and Europe are under great and serious obligations to the honorable gentleman, for
having brought forward the subject in a manner the most masterly, impressive, and eloquent."
"It was," said Bishop Porteus, who was present, "a glorious night for this country."

The subject was now fairly afloat. The anti-slavery agitation had sprung to a vigorous life.
The "irrepressible conflict" was begun. Nor can it be denied that its beginning was highly
respectable. If there be any good in elevated social rank joined to distinguished ability,
if there be any advantage in the favor of honorable and right-minded men, any dignity in British
halls of legislation, the advocate of anti-slavery doctrines may claim alliance with them all.

One inevitable effect of the interest thus awakened was to render those enlisted in favor of
the trade aware of their position, and alert to prevent any interference on the part of the
Government. The alarm spread. The merchants of Liverpool and Bristol must maintain their ground.
In various quarters were set forth the advantages of the trade. It was no injustice to the
negro, but rather a benefit. The trader was no robber or oppressor; he was a benefactor, in
that by his means the native African was taken from a heathen land and brought to live among
Christians. At home, he was the victim of savage warfare; by the slave-ship his life was prolonged
and his salvation rendered possible.

Witnesses on both sides were now summoned for examination before Parliamentary committees.
The premises from which conclusions had been drawn must be thoroughly sifted. The evidence
collected was manifold; to dispose of it required time, and with time the opponents of the
Abolition Bill gathered strength. The next year and the following its advocates still maintained
its claims. The third year of its presentation opened with high hopes of its success. Its friends
had increased in number, and so marked was the inferiority of their opponents in talents and
influence, at this time, that the contest was known as "The War of the Pigmies against the
Giants." But the pigmies, being numerous, gained the vote, and it only remained for the giants
to return with renewed vigor to the contest in the following year.

In 1792 the debate began with spirit. During this discussion Mr. Pitt was most prominent. The
great subject of the Resources of Africa had recently engaged his attention. This subject,
then an almost untried theme, seems not unlikely in our day to take precedence of all others
in connection with the fate of the negro. It has been argued, and that wisely, that only by
strengthening the African at home can he ever be respected abroad. In the productions of his
native soil lie materials for trade vastly better than the buying and selling of men, women,
and children. The fomenting of wars, whereby captives may be secured, may well be superseded
by the culture of the coffee-tree and the cotton-plant.

Mr. Clarkson, who left no effort untried which might in any manner promote the interests of
the cause, regarded as one important means to this end the diffusion of knowledge concerning
that unknown and mysterious region. He had therefore procured from Africa specimens of some
of the actual products of the country, to which he called the attention of the Premier. The
specimens of ivory and gold, of ebony and mahogany, of valuable gums and cotton cloth, awoke
a new vein of thought in the mind of the statesman. The resources of such a country should
be brought into use for her own benefit and for the promotion of commerce. When his turn came
to address the House, he presented this view, pursuing it at some length, and attacking on
this ground the trade in slaves. That exuberant imagination which he was accustomed to rein
in, yet which well knew how to sport itself in its own airy realm, was here suffered to take
wing. He pictured to his enraptured audience the civilization and glory of Africa, when, in
coming years, delivered from the curse of the Slave-Trade, she should take her place among
the nations.

Wilberforce, in writing to one of his friends concerning this speech, after mentioning the
admiration expressed by one who was no friend to Pitt, adds,--"For the last twenty minutes
he seemed really inspired."

A bill was introduced at this time for putting an end to the whole business in a certain number
of years. The year 1800 was named as the extreme limit of the continuance of the traffic, that
department of it by which British vessels supplied foreign nations being abandoned at once.

The bill for gradual abolition displeased those who were most deeply interested in the matter.
The clear-headed sagacity of Pitt, the patriotism of Fox, and the moral sense of Wilberforce
led them to the expression of the same view. There could be no compromise between right and
wrong; that which required redress some years hence required it now. It was, moreover, they
were certain, in some minds only a pretext for delay, as the event proved.

If the advocates of the discontinuance of the Slave-Trade had in the beginning anticipated
an easy victory, they had before this become convinced of their mistake. The prospect, which
had looked bright and hopeful, pointing to a happy consummation, after a period of encouragement
again grew dark and doubtful. Instead of a speedy adjustment, they found themselves involved
in a long contest. Opponents increased in strength and activity. Wars and convulsions, rending
the nations of Europe, engrossed the thoughts of public men. As years passed on, the Abolition
Bill became a sort of fixture. It grew into a saying, that "only the eloquence of Pitt and
Wilberforce" made the House willing to endure its mention at all. The amount of documentary
evidence became formidable in quantity and tedious in detail. For collecting this evidence
Mr. Clarkson had now the most ample means, in the persons of those who, whether as sailors,
soldiers, or scientific men, had become acquainted with Western Africa. In the work of reducing
these masses of facts to a system, making them available for purposes of public debate, a most
efficient aid was found in Mr. Zachary Macaulay. The father of the celebrated historian was
most unrelaxing in his zeal for Abolition, and, possessing a memory of singular tenacity, he
came to be regarded, in this peculiar department of knowledge, as a very perfect encyclopedia.
Nor, in mentioning the advocates of the suppression of the monster evil, should we ever forget
one who to an overflowing goodness of heart added an inimitable richness and delicacy of humor,--James
Stephen. His influence in Parliament was always given in favor of Abolition, and he was also
the author of several able pamphlets on the subject. He had been at one period of his life
a resident in the West India Colonies, and the hatred of the slave-system which he there imbibed
remained unchanged through life.

While, as has been seen, these labors were becoming complicated and arduous, the opposition
was growing not only strong, but violent. Anti-slavery petitions, intended for presentation
in Parliament, must be sent in strong boxes, addressed, not to the leaders of the cause, but
to private persons, lest they should be opened and their contents destroyed. Mr. Wilberforce
is requested, when writing to a friend in Liverpool, not to frank his own letter, lest it should
never be received. Correspondence on this subject must be carried on anonymously, and addressed
to persons not known to be interested. This was not the worst. To random words of defiant opposition
were added threats of personal violence. For a space of two years the friends of Mr. Wilberforce
were annoyed by a desperate man who had declared that he would take the life of the Yorkshire
member. But, to do justice to the advocates of the trade, there was one form of violence which
they appear never to have contemplated:--secession. The injured slave-merchants of that time
never thought of conspiring against the government under which they lived. That was reserved
for a later day.

Yet, while appearances were so dark, the cause was actually gaining ground. The moral sense
of the nation was becoming aroused. The scattered sympathies of the religious classes were
concentrating. Already public sentiment in certain quarters was outgrowing the movements of
Parliament, and the impatient friends of the negro declared that the leaders of the cause had
given up!

In rebutting this charge, Mr. Wilberforce took high ground. He declared that for himself his
aim in this thing was the service of God, and, that having committed himself to this enterprise,
he was not at liberty to go back. Believing that these efforts on behalf of an injured people
were in accordance with the will of the Almighty, he expressed himself confident that the divine
attributes were enlisted in the work and sure of the ultimate success of the cause. Of his
sincerity and honesty in this matter we need not speak. By common consent he takes place among
those who in this world have been permitted to illustrate on an extended scale the power and
beauty of the Christian life. As a reformer of the abuses of society he is often cited as a
model, uniting to a singular purity and sweetness of spirit an immovable firmness of will.
To these blended and diverse qualities was owing, in a great measure, the final success of
the long-contested Abolition Bill. Seldom, indeed, has the patience of an advocate been put
to a severer test than during the protracted period that the bill for the suppression of the
Slave-Trade was before the House. To push it forward when there was an opening, and to withdraw
when effort was useless or worse than useless, was the course pursued for a series of years.
The subject, meanwhile, was never lost sight of; when nothing more could be done, the House
were reminded that it was still in reserve.

Early in the present century a favorable conjuncture of events led to vigorous efforts for
the attainment of the long desired object. The antagonistic policy was now rather to hinder
the progress of the Abolition Bill than to oppose the ultimate extinction of the trade. Of
the supporters of this policy it was remarked by Mr. Pitt, that "they who wished to protract
the season of conflict, whatever might be their professions, really wished to uphold the system."

Notwithstanding certain covert efforts on the part of the opposition, the prospect gradually
brightened. Several new and influential members were added to the London Society,--among them
Henry Brougham. The Irish members, who, in consequence of the completed union with England,
took their seats in Parliament, were almost to a man in favor of Abolition. In 1805 success
seemed about to be obtained. But before the final passage of the Abolition Bill came sorrow
of heart to its friends. Mr. Pitt, having run a political career whose unexampled brilliancy
and usefulness had well fulfilled his early promise, died in the very prime of life. A year
had hardly passed, when his great political rival, Mr. Fox, was no more. Both of these distinguished
men had been, as we have seen, from the beginning of the contest, the friends of Abolition.
Said Mr. Fox, on his death-bed,--"Two things I wish earnestly to see accomplished: peace with
Europe, and the abolition of the Slave-Trade; but of the two I wish the latter."

Notwithstanding the death of its friends, the Abolition Bill was steadily making its way. The
"vexed question" of near twenty years was about to be set at rest. Opposition had grown feeble,
and in May, 1807, the bill which made the Slave-Trade a crime wherever the British rule extended
passed both Houses and became a law.

It was a day of triumphant joy. This was felt by the friends of Abolition at large, and especially
by its advocates. These received everywhere the warmest congratulations. Mr. Wilberforce, on
entering the House of Commons just before the passage of the bill, was greeted with rounds
of applause.

That Slavery had received its death-blow was fully believed at this time. Africa being delivered
from the traffic, the institution itself, its supplies being cut off, must necessarily wither
and die. This was the common view of the matter; and the more effectually to secure this result,
negotiations were entered into with other European governments for the suppression of the trade
in their dominions. In America, the Congress of the United States passed a law prohibiting
the African Slave-Trade after the year 1808, the period indicated in the Constitution,--the
law taking effect a few years later. Napoleon, restored from his first banishment, and once
more wielding the sceptre of power, caused a law to be passed forbidding the trade in the French
Colonies. The friends of the negro were everywhere high in hope that the days of Slavery were
numbered. Starved out, the monster must inevitably die. So sure were they of this result, that
in England their efforts had all along been directed against the trade. The institution itself
had been comparatively untouched.

A few years passed, and it began to be evident to those who had been active in the great conflict
that the law against the Slave-Trade was less effectual than had been anticipated. The ocean
was wide, the African coast a thousand miles long, and desperate men were not wanting who were
disposed to elude the statute for the sake of large gains. Nor need they fail to secure suitable
markets for the sale of their ill-gotten cargoes. But into this part of our subject it may
not be well to pry too closely.

If the friends of the African cause had supposed their work accomplished, when their first
success was attained, their error was soon corrected. It was pleasant to repose upon the laurels
so dearly won; but another battle must be fought, and this necessity soon became apparent.
But a few years elapsed and the negro was again made the subject of legislative consideration.
Mr. Wilberforce was still a member of the House, though most of those with whom he had been
associated at the beginning of his public life were dead. Forty years had passed since he first
took his seat, but he was ready once more to take up the cause of the defenceless. The abuses
perpetrated against the West Indian negro called loudly for Governmental interference.

Since 1807 little had been done save the passage of the Registry Bill, which had been secured
by Mr. Wilberforce in 1816. This was of the nature of an investigation into the actual state
of the West India Colonies with respect to the illicit commerce in slaves. Mild as this measure
appeared, it proved the opening wedge of much that followed. It was in fact the first of a
series of movements which issued in momentous events, even the emancipation of all the slaves
in the British Colonies. The passage of this bill was followed by an increased expression of
interest in the matter of Negro Slavery; this was evinced in a number of valuable publications
issued at this time,--able pamphlets from the pens of Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Stephen, and others.
The labors of the London Society have already been noticed; and after the passage of the law
of 1807 we find in existence the "African Institution," under which name the friends of the
negro were associated for the purpose of watching over his interests, more particularly with
regard to the operation of the law. But during the period of repose which followed the first
anti-slavery triumph, a portion of this body, losing its original activity, had become comparatively
supine.

In 1818, Thomas Fowell Buxton, whose Quaker mother had instilled into him a hatred of African
Slavery, became a member of Parliament. Having soon after joined himself to the African Institution,
he became somewhat mortified at the apathy of the friends of the slave, as here embodied. He
was frank and outspoken, and gave expression to his indignant feeling without reserve. The
next day the young member for Weymouth found himself addressed by Wilberforce, for whom he
entertained a high veneration, and warmly thanked for the earnest utterance of his sentiments
the evening before.

After this Mr. Wilberforce conferred freely with Mr. Buxton upon the subject of Slavery in
its manifold details. In a letter written not far from this time he unfolded the matter concerning
the negroes of the West Indian plantations, the cruelties to which they were subjected, and
the abuses which grew out of the system. Something must be done. Measures must be taken of
a protective character at least, and the work must be prosecuted with vigor. Such was the view
presented by Mr. Wilberforce. Warned by age and infirmity that the period of his retirement
from public life could not be far distant, he wished that the cause which had been with him
a paramount one might be passed to able and faithful hands.

How Mr. Buxton responded to this call the subsequent history of the anti-slavery cause unfolds.
He had already shown, that, as a member of the House, he was to make no light impression, whatever
might be the objects which should enlist his efforts.

At this juncture there was formed in London a new anti-slavery society. Its object was explicitly
stated to be "the mitigation and gradual abolition of Slavery throughout the British dominions."
In looking over the names of its officers and leading members, we find not those of the early
Abolitionists alone: by the side of Zachary Macaulay we find the name of his more distinguished
son, and that of Wilberforce is similarly followed.

In behalf of the African there existed a somewhat widely spread public sympathy, the fruit
of the previous long-continued presentation of the subject, and at this time it seemed about
to be aroused. Several petitions, having reference to Slavery, were sent into the House of
Commons. The first of these came from the Quakers, and Mr. Wilberforce, on presenting it, took
occasion to make an address to the House. In place of Mr. Pitt now stood Mr. Canning, who inquired
of Mr. Wilberforce if he intended to found upon his remarks any motion. He replied,--"No; but
that such was the intention of an esteemed friend of his." Mr. Buxton then announced his intention
of submitting to the House a motion that the state of Slavery in the British Colonies be taken
into consideration.

On the 15th of May, 1823, the expected debate took place. Mr. Buxton began by moving a resolution,
"That the state of Slavery is repugnant to the principles of the British Constitution and of
the Christian Religion, and that it ought to be gradually abolished throughout the British
Colonies, with as much expedition as may be found consistent with a due regard to the well-being
of the parties concerned."

A lively debate followed, and certain resolutions drawn up by Mr. Canning were finally carried.
These articles, as well as Mr. Buxton's motion, had in view a gradual improvement in the condition
and character of the slaves. In pursuance of the object to be attained, circular letters were
addressed to the Colonial authorities, recommending, with regard to the negroes, certain enlargements
of privileges. These letters were extremely moderate in their tone. The reforms were simply
recommended, not authoritatively enjoined; in the language of Mr. Canning, the movement was
such a one "as should be compatible with the well-being of the slaves themselves, with the
safety of the Colonies, and with a fair and equitable consideration of the rights of private
property."

Moderate as were the measures first set on foot for the improvement of the social state of
the slaves, the authors were not by that means secured from opposition. This was accompanied,
on the part of the West India planters, by such an extreme violence as was hardly expected,
at least by the Premier, who had so favorably met the introduction of the subject, if he had
not actually committed himself to the work. The leaders of the movement, who had but just now
been borne onward by the wave of public approval, found themselves fiercely denounced. Here
is a brief paragraph which appeared at that time in a Jamaica newspaper:--

"We pray the imperial Parliament to amend their origin, which is bribery; to cleanse their
consciences, which are corrupt; to throw off their disguise, which is hypocrisy; to break off
with their false allies, who are the saints; and finally, to banish from among them the purchased
rogues, who are three-fourths of their number."

Among the reforms recommended to the Colonists, by the circular letters of the Government,
was one which had reference to the indecent flogging of the female slaves, and also a suggestive
restraint upon corporal punishment in general. This called forth in a Colonial paper the following,
which certainly has the merit of being entirely unambiguous:--

"We did and do declare the whip to be essential to West India discipline, ay, as essential,
my Lord Calthorpe, as the freedom of the press and the trial by jury to the liberty of the
subject in Britain, and to be justified on equally legitimate ground. The comfort, welfare,
and happiness of our laboring classes cannot subsist without it."

These specimens of the fierceness of abuse with which the Government was assailed may perhaps
prepare the reader for that last resort of indignant discontent on the part of the governed,--the
threat of secession! Yes; Jamaica will break away from the tyranny of which she is the much
abused object, she will free herself from the oppression of the mother country, and then,--what
next?--she will seek for friendship and protection from the United States! How soon this threat,
if persisted in and carried out into action, would have been silenced by the thunder of British
cannon, we need not stay to consider.

To this clamor of the opposition the more timid of the Anti-Slavery party were disposed to
yield, at least for a season. The Government showed little disposition to press the improvements
which it had recommended. Mr. Canning seemed apprehensive that he had committed himself too
far, and was inclined to postpone, to wait for a season, to give the West Indians time for
reflection, before legislating further. The chief advocate of the slave began to realize, that,
of those who had encouraged and coöperated with him, but few, in a moment of real difficulty,
could be relied upon. But he was not to be baffled. "Good, honest Buxton" had made up his mind
that the world should be somewhat the better for his having lived in it, and he had chosen
as the object of his beneficent labors the very lowest of his fellow-subjects,--the negro slave
of the West Indies. He was, moreover, a vigorous thinker and an invincible debater, and, once
embarked in this cause, he had no thought of drawing back. So exclusive was his zeal, that
at one time Mr. O'Connell, vexed that the claims of his constituents were set aside, electrified
the House by exclaiming, "Oh! I wish we were blacks!" The Irish orator had all along supported
the Abolition cause, and spoken words of good cheer to Mr. Buxton; but now his impatient patriotism
finds vent in exclaiming,--"If the Irish people were but black, we should have the honorable
member from Weymouth coming down as large as life, supported by all the 'friends of humanity'
in the back rows, to advocate their cause."

There was truth here, as well as wit, showing not only Mr. Buxton's absorption in the cause
which he had espoused, but his inspiring influence on other minds. His indomitable energy was
always sure to grow stronger after defeat, and the strength of his own belief in the justice
of his cause of itself increased the faith of its friends.

In the onward course of events the violence of the West Indians assumed different phases, and
one of the most memorable of these had respect to the religious teachers of the slaves. They
had been sent out by various bodies of Christians in England, commencing nearly a hundred years
before these anti-slavery efforts. The object of the missionary was a definite one, to christianize
the negroes. He knew well, before engaging in his work, that those who might come under his
instruction were slaves, and because they were slaves the call was all the louder upon his
compassion. Yet his path of duty lay wide enough from any attempt to render the objects of
his Christian efforts other than they were in their civil relations. Such were the instructions
which the missionaries were accustomed to receive, on leaving England for a residence among
the Colonists. Nor was there ever, from the beginning to the ending of this stirring chapter
in the history of Slavery, reason to believe that these instructions had been disobeyed. Their
labors had in some instances been encouraged by the planters, and their influence acknowledged
to be a valuable aid in the management of the negroes. But in these days of excitement and
insubordination the missionaries were accused of encouraging disobedience in the slaves. When
outbreaks occurred, the guilt was laid to the charge of the Christian teachers. Upon a mere
suspicion, without a shadow of evidence, they were seized and thrown into prison. One of the
most melancholy instances of this was that of the Rev. J. Smith, who was sentenced to be hanged,
but died in prison, through hardships endured, before the day of execution arrived. He was
only one of several who suffered at the hands of the West Indians the grossest injustice. The
case of Mr. Shrewsbury was at one time brought before the House. Mr. Canning made reference
to him as "a gentleman in whose conduct there did not appear to be the slightest ground of
blame or suspicion." He was a Wesleyan missionary at Barbadoes, and, having fallen under suspicion,
was also condemned to die. Among other charges, he was accused of having corresponded with
Mr. Buxton. Said the latter, in an address to the House,--"I never wrote to him a single letter,
nor did I know that such a man existed, till I happened to take up a newspaper, and there read,
with some astonishment, that he was going to be hanged for corresponding with me!"

If Englishmen and Christian ministers were condemned to death on such allegations, adduced
at mock trials, it is not strange that negroes sometimes lost their lives on similar grounds.
After a rising among these people, several having been executed, the evidence of the guilt
of a certain portion was reviewed in the House of Commons. The witness was asked whether he
had found guns among the insurgents. He replied, "No; but he was shown a place where guns had
been"! Had he found bayonets? "No; but he was shown a basket where bayonets had been"! Unfortunately,
the victims of this species of evidence were already hung when the review of the trial took place.

This last incident brings us to another feature of those times, the actual insurrections which
took place among the slaves. Passing by the lesser excitements of Barbadoes and Demerara, we
come to the great rising in Jamaica in 1832. A servile war is generally represented as displaying
at every point its banners of flame, plashing its feet meanwhile in the blood of women and
children. But the great insurrection of 1832, which, as it spread, included fifty thousand
negroes in its train, was in the beginning simply a refusal to work.

Fiercely discussed by the masters, emancipation began to be spoken of among the slaves. Necessarily
they must know something about it; but, in their distorted and erroneous impressions, they
believed that "the Great King of England" had set them free, and the masters were wilfully
withholding the boon.

There was one, a negro slave, whose dark glittering eye fascinated his fellows, and whose wondrous
powers of speech drew them, despite themselves, into the conspiracy. But he planned no murders,
designed no house-burnings; to those who, under solemn pledge of secrecy, joined him, he propounded
a single idea. It was this. If we, the negroes, who are as five to one, compared to the white
men, refuse to work any more until freedom is given, we shall have it. There will be some resistance,
and a few of us will be killed; but that we must expect. This, in substance, was the ground
taken by Sharpe, who, as a slave, had always been a favorite both with his master and others.
This was the commencement of the great insurrection. Its leader had not counted upon the excitable
spirit of the slaves when once aroused. Holding as sacred the property of his master, he believed
his followers would do the same, until the light of burning barns and out-houses revealed the
mischief which had begun to work. Yet, in the sanguinary struggle which followed, it is to
be remembered that the excesses which were committed, the wanton waste of life, were on the
part of the white residents, who meted out vengeance with an unsparing hand,--not on the part
of the negroes.

One effect of this uprising of the slaves was, in England, to deepen the impression of the
evils of the system under which they were held. If the mere discussion of Slavery were fraught
with such terrible consequences, how could safety ever consist with the thing itself? By discussion
they had but exercised their own rights as Englishmen. Of what use to them was Magna Charta,
if they must seal their lips in silence when a public abuse required to be corrected, a gigantic
wrong to be righted? Must they give up the ocean and the land to the dominion of the slave-owner
and slave-trader, hushing the word of remonstrance, lest it should lead to war and bloodshed?
No; they would not do this. The thing itself which had caused these commotions must perish.

Here was a decided gain for the friends of the slave in Parliament. Mr. Buxton, in alluding
to the fearful aspect of the times, asks the pertinent question, "How is the Government prepared
to act in case of a general insurrection among the slaves?" We give the closing paragraphs
of his speech at this crisis.

"I will refer the House to the sentiments of Mr. Jefferson, the President of the United States.
Mr. Jefferson was himself a slave-owner, and full of the prejudices of slave-owners; yet he
left this memorable memorial to his country: 'I do, indeed, tremble for my country when I remember
that God is just, and that His justice may not sleep forever. A revolution is among possible
events; the Almighty has no attribute which would side with us in such a struggle.'

"This is the point which weighs most heavily with me. The Almighty has no attribute that will
side with us in such a struggle. A war with an overwhelming physical force, a war with a climate
fatal to the European constitution, a war in which the heart of the people of England would
lean toward the enemy: it is hazarding all these terrible evils; but all are light and trivial,
compared with the conviction I feel that in such a warfare it is not possible to ask nor can
we expect the countenance of Heaven."

While events tended to bring the whole system of Slavery into odium, the leaders of the Abolition
party were themselves changing their ground. They had begun with the hope of mitigating the
hardships of the slave's lot,--to place him upon the line of progression, and so ultimately
to fit him for freedom. But they had found themselves occupying a false position. Slowly they
came to the conclusion that for the slave little could be accomplished in the way of improvement,
so long as he remained a slave. The complete extinction of the system was now the object aimed
at. At a crowded Anti-Slavery meeting held in May, 1830, Mr. Wilberforce presided. The first
resolution, moved by Mr. Buxton, was this,--"That no proper or practicable means be left unattempted
for effecting, at the earliest period, the entire abolition of Slavery throughout the British
dominions." At a meeting held in Edinburgh similar language was used by Lord Jeffrey. Said
Dr. Andrew Thomson, one of the most influential of the Scottish clergy,--"We ought to tell
the legislature, plainly and strongly, that no man has a right to property in man,--that there
are eight hundred thousand individuals sighing in bondage, under the intolerable evils of West
Indian Slavery, who have as good a right to be free as we ourselves have,--that they ought
to be free, and that they must be made free!"

Another element at this time wrought in favor of the Abolitionists. Of the missionaries who
had suffered persecution in the Colonies, numbers had returned to England. These religious
teachers, while plying their vocation in the West Indies, had acted in obedience to the instructions
received from the societies which employed them. Necessarily, while in a slave country, they
had been silent upon the subject of Slavery. But in truth they liked the institution as little
as Mr. Buxton himself. Once in England, the seal of silence melted from their lips. Everywhere
in public and in private they made known the evils and cruelties of Slavery. Some of these
persons had been examined by Parliamentary committees, and being acquitted of every suspicion
of mis-statement, their testimony received this additional sanction. The tale of wrong which
they revealed was not told in vain. Each returned missionary exerted an influence upon the
religious body which he represented. The aggregate of this influence was great.

If, in the latter stages of the Emancipation effort, the backwardness of the Administration
was an evil omen, making final success a difficult achievement, this was balanced by reform
in Parliament. At the recent elections, anti-slavery sentiments in the candidate were in some
quarters requisite to success. A story is told of a gentleman who had spent some time canvassing
and found abundant evidence of this. At an obscure village he had been hailed with the question,
whether he was trying to get into the Lords or Commons. "But," added the simple questioners,
"whichever you do get into, you must vote for the poor slaves."

To the aid of the Emancipation leaders there came now a new element, a power so strong that
it required no small share of skill to hold it in, that it might work no evil in contributing
to the desired end.

Since the commencement of efforts for the slave a considerable period had passed. These efforts
extended, in fact, over nearly half a century. During that time, pamphlet after pamphlet and
volume after volume had set forth the evils and abominations of Slavery, forcing the subject
upon the public attention. The leaven had worked slowly, and for a portion of the time in comparative
silence; but the work was done. The British people were aroused. The great heart of the nation
was beating in response to the appeals for justice and right which were made in their ears.
The world can scarce furnish a parallel to this spectacle of moral sublimity. It was the voice
of a people, calling, in tones that must be heard, for justice and freedom,--and that not for
themselves, but for a distant, a defenceless race.

The publication of a circular inviting Anti-Slavery delegates to London, a movement made by
the leaders of the cause, in its results took the most enthusiastic by surprise. More than
three hundred appeared in answer to the call. Mr. Buxton met them in Exeter Hall. With a rampant
freedom of opinion, there was little prospect of harmony of action being attained, however
desirable it might be. Through the influence of Mr. Buxton and his coadjutors, these men of
conflicting theories were brought into such a degree of harmonious action that an address was
drawn up embodying their sentiments and laid before Lord Althorp, at that time the head of
the Administration. The strong outside pressure of the nation at large upon the Government
was evident. The strength of the Emancipationists in Parliament, also, had been carefully estimated,
and success could no longer be doubted.

The fourteenth of May, 1833, witnessed an animated debate in the House. While the advocates
of Emancipation desired for the negro unconditional freedom, they found the measure fettered
by the proposal of Mr. Stanley, the Colonial Secretary, that he be placed for a number of years
in a state of apprenticeship. Twelve years of this restricted freedom was, by the influence
of Mr. Buxton, reduced to seven, and the sum of twenty millions of pounds sterling being granted
to the slave-owners, the bill for the abolition of Negro Slavery passed the House of Commons.
With some delay it went through the Upper House, and on the 28th of August, receiving the royal
assent, it became a law. The apprenticeship system was but short-lived, its evil-working leading
to its abolition in its fourth year.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has been often said, with how much of truth it is not our purpose here to inquire, that
in this country the mention of the evils of Slavery is and must be fraught with most evil consequences.
Yet the agitation of this subject, whether for good or evil, in the United States, is intimately
connected with the whole movement in England. In the earlier stages of the measures directed
against the trade, a hearty response was awakened here; nor could the subsequent act of emancipation
fail to produce an impression everywhere, and most of all among ourselves. United to the English
nation by strong affinities, one with them in language and literature, yet cleaving still to
the institution which England had so energetically striven to destroy, could it be otherwise
than that such a movement on her part should awaken an eager interest among us? Could such
an event as the release from slavery of eight hundred thousand negroes in the British Colonies
pass by unnoticed? To suppose this is preposterous. It is not too much to say, that the effect
of British emancipation was, at the time it took place, to give in certain portions of the
United States an increased degree of life to the anti-slavery sentiment. No words could have
been uttered, which, reaching the shores of America, would have been half so emphatic as this
one act of the British nation. Among the causes which have nourished and strengthened the anti-slavery
sentiment among us this, has its place. Verily, if England gave us the poison, she has not
been slow to proffer to us the antidote.

       *       *       *       *       *

Concerning the actual fruits of Emancipation, it may be asked, What have they been? The world
looked on inquiringly as to how the enfranchised negroes would demean themselves. One fact
has never been disputed. This momentous change in the social state of near a million of people
took place without a single act of violence on the part of the liberated slaves. Neither did
the measure carry violence in its train. So far the act was successful. But that all which
the friends of Emancipation hoped for has been attained, no one will assert. When, however,
we hear of the financial ruin of the Islands, as a consequence of that measure, it may be well
to inquire into their condition previous to its taking place. That the West India Colonies
were trembling on the brink of ruin at the close of the last century is evident from their
repeated petitions to the mother country to take some measures to save them from utter bankruptcy.
This can hardly be laid to the extinction of Slavery, for both Slavery and the Slave-Trade
were at that time in the height of successful operation.

Again, if the West Indian negro is not to-day all that might be wished, or even all that, under
the influence of freedom, he had been expected to become, there may possibly be a complication
of causes which has prevented his elevation. He has been allowed instruction, indeed, to some
extent; the continued labors of those who contended for his freedom have secured to him the
schoolmaster and the missionary. But this is not enough. Has he been taught the use of improved
methods of agriculture, the application of machinery to the production of required results?
Has he been encouraged to works of skill, to manufacturing arts even of the ruder kind? Has
he not rather been subjected to the same policy which, before the Revolution, discountenanced
manufactures among ourselves, and has caused the fabrics of the East Indies to be disused,
and the factories of Ireland to stand still?

These questions need not be pursued. Yet, amid the conflicting voices of the evil days upon
which we are fallen, now and then we hear lifted up a plea for Emancipation, an entreaty for
the removal of the accursed thing which has plunged the happiest nation upon earth into the
direst of calamities.

Of the causes which have affected the success of Emancipation in the case before us, it may
be remarked, that, so far as their action has been pernicious, they would operate among ourselves
less than in any colony of Great Britain, abundantly less than in the West Indies. The greater
variety of employments with which the Maryland or Kentucky negro is familiar, his more frequent
proficiency in mechanical pursuits, combined with other circumstances, render him decidedly
a more eligible subject for freedom than the negro of Jamaica.

The changes which may issue in this country from the present commotions it were vain to predict.
It may not, however, be unwise, in considering, as we have done, an achievement nobly conceived
and generously accomplished, to examine carefully into the causes which may have rendered it
otherwise than completely successful in its results.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO ROUGH IT.

"Life has few things better than this," said Dr. Johnson, on feeling himself settled in a coach,
and rolling along the road. We cannot agree with the great man. Times have changed since the
Doctor and Mr. Boswell travelled for pleasure; and we much prefer an expedition to Moosehead,
or a tramp in the Adirondack, to being boxed up in a four-wheeled ark and made "comfortable,"
according to the Doctor's idea of felicity.

Francis Galton, Explorer, and Secretary to the Royal Geographical Society, we thank you sincerely
for teaching us how to travel! Few persons know the important secrets of how to walk, how to
run, how to ride, how to cook, how to defend, how to ford rivers, how to make rafts, how to
fish, how to hunt, in short, how to do the essential things that every traveller, soldier,
sportsman, emigrant, and missionary should be conversant with. The world is full of deserts,
prairies, bushes, jungles, swamps, rivers, and oceans. How to "get round" the dangers of the
land and the sea in the best possible way, how to shift and contrive so as to come out all
right, are secrets well worth knowing, and Mr. Galton has found the key. In this brief article
we shall frequently avail ourselves of the information he imparts, confident that in these
war-days his wise directions are better than fine gold to a man who is obliged to rough it
over the world, no matter where his feet may wander, his horse may travel, or his boat may sail.

Wherewithal shall a man be clothed? We begin at the beginning with flannel always. Experience
has taught us that flannel next the skin is indispensable for health to a traveller, and the
sick- and dead-lists always include largely the names of those who neglect this material. Cotton
stands Number Two on the list, and linen nowhere. Only last summer jolly Tom Bowers got his
quietus for the season by getting hot and wet and cold in one of his splendid Paris linen shirts,
and now he wears calico ones whenever he wishes to "appear proper" at Nahant or Newport.

"The hotter the ground the thicker your socks," was the advice of an old traveller who once
went a thirty-days' tramp at our side through the Alp country in summer. We have seen many
a city bumpkin start for a White-Mountain walk in the thinnest of cotton foot-coverings, but
we never knew one to try them a second time.

Stout shoes are preferable to boots always, and a wise traveller never omits to grease well
his leather before and during his journey. Don't forget to put a pair of old slippers into
your knapsack. After a hard day's toil, they are like magic, under foot. Let us remind the
traveller whose feet are tender at starting that a capital remedy for blistered feet is to
rub them at night with spirits mixed with tallow dropped from a candle. An old friend of ours
thought it a good plan to soap the inside of the stocking before setting out, and we have seen
him break a raw egg into his shoes before putting them on, saying it softened the leather and
made him "all right" for the day.

Touching coat, waistcoat, and trousers, there can be but one choice. Coarse tweed does the
best business on a small capital. Cheap and strong, we have always found it the most "paying"
article in our travelling-wardrobe. Avoid that tailor-hem so common at the bottom of your pantaloons
which retains water and does no good to anybody. Waistcoats would be counted as superfluous,
were it not for the convenience of the pockets they carry. Take along an old dressing-gown,
if you want solid comfort in camp or elsewhere after sunset.

Gordon Cumming recommends a wide-awake hat, and he is good authority on that head. A man "clothed
in his right mind" is a noble object; but six persons out of every ten who start on a journey
wear the wrong apparel. The writer of these pages has seen four individuals at once standing
up to their middles in a trout-stream, all adorned with black silk tiles, newly imported from
the Rue St. Honoré. It was a sight to make Daniel Boone and Izaak Walton smile in their celestial
abodes.

A light water-proof outside-coat and a thick pea-jacket are a proper span for a roving trip.
Don't forget that a couple of good blankets also go a long way toward a traveller's paradise.

We will not presume that an immortal being at this stage of the nineteenth century would make
the mistake, when he had occasion to tuck up his shirt-sleeves, of turning them outwards, so
that every five minutes they would be tumbling down with a crash of anathemas from the wearer.
The supposition that any sane son of Adam would tuck up his sleeves inside out involves a suspicion,
to say the least, that his wits had been overrated by doting relatives.

"Grease and dirt are the savage's wearing-apparel," says the Swedish proverb. No comment is
necessary in speaking with a Christian on this point, for cold water is one of civilization's
closest allies. Avoid the bath, and the genius of disease and crime stalks in. "Cleanliness
is next to godliness," remember.

In packing your knapsack, keep in mind that sixteen or twenty pounds are weight enough, till,
by practice, you can get pluck and energy into your back to increase that amount.

Roughing it has various meanings, and the phrase is oftentimes ludicrously mistaken by many
individuals. A friend with whom we once travelled thought he was roughing it daily for the
space of three weeks, because he was obliged to lunch on cold chicken and un-iced Champagne,
and when it rained he was forced to seek shelter inside very inelegant hotels on the road.
To rough it, in the best sense of that term, is to lie down every night with the ground for
a mattress, a bundle of fagots for a pillow, and the stars for a coverlet. To sleep in a tent
is semi-luxury, and tainted with too much effeminacy to suit the ardor of a first-rate "Rough."
Parkyns, Taylor, Gumming, Fremont, and Kane have told us how much superior are two trunks of
trees, rolled together for a bed, under the open sky, to that soft heating apparatus called
a bed in the best chamber. Every man to his taste,--of course, but there come occasions in
life when a man must look about him and arrange for himself, somehow. The traveller who has
never slept in the woods has missed an enjoyable sensation. A clump of trees makes a fine leafy
post-bedstead, and to awake in the morning amid a grove of sheltering nodding oaks is lung-inspiring.
It was the good thought of a wanderer to say, "The forest is the poor man's jacket." Napoleon
had a high opinion of the bivouac style of life, and on the score of health gave it the preference
over tent-sleeping. The only objection to out-door slumber is dampness; but it is easy to protect
one's self in wet weather from the unhealthy ground by boughs or India-rubber blankets.

One of the great precautions requisite for a tramp is to provide against thirst. Want of water
overtakes the traveller sometimes in the most annoying manner, and it is well to know how to
fight off the dry fiend. Sir James Alexander cautions all who rough it to drink well before
starting in the morning, and drink nothing all day till the halt,--and to keep the lips shut
as much as possible. Another good authority recommends a pebble or leaf to be held in the mouth.
Habit, however, does much in this case as in every other, and we have known a man, who had
been accustomed at home to drink at every meal four tumblers of water, by force of will bring
his necessity down to a pint of liquid per day, during a long tramp through the forest. One
of the many excellent things which Plutarch tells of Socrates is this noteworthy incident of
his power of abstinence. He says, whenever Socrates returned from any exercise, though he might
be extremely dry, he refrained nevertheless from drinking till he had thrown away the first
bucket of water he had drawn, that he might exercise himself to patience, and accustom his
appetite to wait the leisure of reason.

From water to fire is a natural transition. How to get a blaze just when you want it puzzles
the will sometimes hugely. Every traveller should provide himself with a good handy steel,
proper flint, and unfailing tinder, because lucifers are liable to many accidents. Pliny recommended
the wood of mulberry, bay-laurel, and ivy, as good material to be rubbed together in order
to procure a fire; but Pliny is behind the times, and must not be trusted to make rules for
General McLellan's boys. Of course no one would omit to take lucifers on a tramp; but steel,
flint, and tinder are three warm friends that in an emergency will always come up to the strike.
To find firewood is a knack, and it ought to be well cultivated. Don't despise bits of dry
moss, fine grass, and slips of bark, if you come across them. Twenty fires are failures in
the open air for one that succeeds, unless the operator knows his business. A novice will use
matches, wood, wind, time, and violent language enough to burn down a city, and never get any
satisfaction out of all the expenditure; while a knowing hand will, out of the stump of an
old, half-rotten tree, bring you such magnificent, permanent heat, that your heart and your
tea-kettle will sing together for joy over it. In making a fire, depend upon it, there is something
more than luck,--there is always talent in it. We once saw Charles Lever (Harry Lorrequer's
father) build up a towering blaze in a woody nook out of just nothing but what he scraped up
from the ground, and his rare ability. You remember Mr. Opie the painter's answer to a student
who asked him what he mixed his colors with. "Brains, Sir," was the artist's prompt, gruff,
and right reply. It takes brains to make a fire in a rainy night out in the woods; but it can
be done,--if you only know how to begin. We have seen a hearth made of logs on a deep snow
sending out a cheerful glow, while the rain dripped and froze all about the merry party assembled.

A traveller ought to be a good swimmer. There are plenty of watery crossings to be got over,
and often there are no means at hand but what Nature has provided in legs and arms. But one
of the easiest things in the world to make is a raft. Inflatable India-rubber boats also are
now used in every climate, and a full-sized one weighs only forty pounds. General Fremont and
Dr. Livingstone have tested their excellent qualities, and commend them as capable of standing
a wonderful amount of wear and tear. But a boat can be made out of almost anything, if one
have the skill to put it together. A party of sailors whose boat had been stolen put out to
sea and were eighteen hours afloat in a crazy craft made out of a large basket woven with boughs
such as they could pick up, and covered with their canvas tent, the inside being plastered
with clay to keep out as much of the water as possible.

In fording streams, it is well, if the water be deep and swift, to carry heavy stones in the
hands, in order to resist being borne away by the current. Fords should not be deeper than
three feet for men, or four feet for horses.

Among the small conveniences, a good strong pocket-knife, a small "hard chisel," and a file
should not be forgotten. A great deal of real work can be done with very few tools. One of
Colt's rifles is a companion which should be specially cared for, and a water-proof cover should
always be taken to protect the lock during showers. There is one rule among hunters which ought
always to be remembered, namely,--"Look at the gun, but never let the gun look at you, or at
your companions." Travellers are always more or less exposed to the careless handling of fire-arms,
and numerous accidents occur by carrying the piece with the cock down on the nipple. Three-fourths
of all the gun accidents are owing to this cause; for a blow on the back of the cock is almost
sure to explode the cap, while a gun at half-cock is comparatively safe.

Don't carry too many eatables on your expeditions. Salt and pepper are needful condiments.
Nearly all the rest are out of place on a roughing expedition. Among the most portable kinds
of solid food are pemmican, jerked meat, wheat flour, barley, peas, cheese, and biscuit. Salt
meat is a disappointing dish, and apt to be sadly uncertain. Somebody once said that water
had tasted of sinners ever since the flood, and salted meat sometimes has a taint full as vivid.
Twenty-eight ounces of real nutriment per diem for a man in rough work as a traveller will
be all that he requires; if he perform severe tramping, thirty ounces.

The French say, C'est la soupe qui fait le soldat, and we have always found on a tramping expedition
nothing so life-restoring after fatigue and hunger as the portable soup now so easily obtained
at places where prepared food is put up for travellers' uses. Spirituous liquors are no help
in roughing it. On the contrary, they invite sunstroke, and various other unpleasant visitors
incident to the life of a traveller. Habitual brandy-drinkers give out sooner than cold-water
men, and we have seen fainting red noses by the score succumb to the weather, when boys addicted
to water would crow like chanticleer through a long storm of sleet and snow on the freezing Alps.

It is not well to lose your way; but in case this unpleasant luck befall you, set systematically
to work to find it. Throw terror to the idiots who always flutter and flounder, and so go wrong
inevitably. Galton the Plucky says,--and he has as much cool wisdom to impart as a traveller
needs,--when you make the unlively discovery that you are lost, ask yourself the three following
questions:--

1. What is the least distance that I can with certainty specify, within which the path, the
river, the sea-shore, etc., that I wish to regain, lies?

2.

3. When I last left the path, etc., did I turn to the left or to the right?

As regards the second, if you recollect the third, and also know the course of the path within
eight points of the compass, (or one-fourth of the whole horizon,) it is a great gain; or even
if you know your direction within twelve points, or one-third of the whole horizon, that knowledge
is worth something. Don't hurry, if you get bewildered. Stop and think. Then arrange matters,
and you are safe. When Napoleon was once caught in a fog, while riding with his staff across
a shallow arm of the Gulf of Suez, he thought, as usual. His way was utterly lost, and going
forward he found himself in deeper water. So he ordered his staff to ride from him in radiating
lines in all directions, and such of them as should find shallow water to shout out. If Napoleon
had been alone on that occasion, he would have set his five wits to the task of finding the
right way, and he would have found it.

Finally, cheerfulness in large doses is the best medicine one can take along in his out-door
tramps. We once had the good-luck to hear old Christopher North try his lungs in the open air
in Scotland. Such laughter and such hill-shaking merry-heartedness we may never listen to again
among the Lochs, but the lesson of the hour (how it rained that black night!) is stamped for
life upon our remembrance. "Clap your back against the cliff," he shouted, "and never mind
the deluge!" Rest, glorious Christopher, under the turf you trod with such a gallant bearing!
Few mortals knew how to rough it like you!

       *       *       *       *       *

SELF-POSSESSION vs. PREPOSSESSION.

Timoleon, a man prosperous in all his undertakings, was wont to ascribe his successes to good-luck;
but that he did not mean to give credit to any blind Goddess of Fortune is evident from his
having built an altar to a certain divine something which he called Automatia, signifying Spontaneousness,
or a happy promptitude in following the dictates of his own genius. The Liberator of Sicily,
to be sure, did not live in an age of newspapers, and was not liable at every turn to have
his elbow jogged by Public Opinion; but it is plain that his notion of a man fit to lead was,
that he should be one who never waited to seize Opportunity from behind, and who knew that
events become the masters of him who is slow to make them his servants.

Thus far nothing has been more remarkable in the history of our civil war than that its signal
opportunities have failed to produce on either side any leader who has proved himself to be
gifted with this happy faculty. Even our statesmen seem not to have felt the kindling inspiration
of a great occasion. The country is going through a trial more crucial, if possible, than that
of the Revolution; but no state-paper has thus far appeared, comparable in anything but quantity
to the documents of our heroic period. Even Mr. Seward seems to have laid aside his splendid
art of generalization, or to have found out the danger of those specious boomerangs of eloquence,
which, launched from the platform with the most graceful curves of rhetoric, come back not
seldom to deal an untimely blow to him who sets them flying. The people begin to show signs
of impatience that the curtain should be so slow to rise and show them the great actor in our
national tragedy. They are so used to having a gigantic bubble of notoriety blown for them
in a week by the newspapers, though it burst in a day or two, leaving but a drop of muddy suds
behind it, that they have almost learned to think the making of a great character as simple
a matter as that of a great reputation. Bewildered as they have been with a mob of statesmen,
generals, orators, poets, and what not, all of them the foremost of this or any other age,
they seem to expect a truly great man on equally easy terms with these cheap miracles of the
press,--grown as rapidly, to be forgotten as soon, as the prize cauliflower of a county show.
We have improvised an army; we have conjured a navy out of nothing so rapidly that pines the
jay screamed in last summer may be even now listening for the hum of the hostile shot from
Sumter; why not give another rub at our Aladdin's lamp and improvise a genius and a hero?

This is, perhaps, very natural, but it is nevertheless unreasonable. Heroes and geniuses are
never to be had ready-made, nor was a tolerable specimen of either ever produced at six months'
notice. Dearly do nations pay for such secular births; still more dearly for their training.
They are commonly rather the slow result than the conscious cause of revolutions in thought
or polity. It is no imputation on democratic forms of government, it is the unexampled prosperity
of nearly half a century that is in fault, if a sudden and unforewarned danger finds us without
a leader, whether civil or military, whom the people are willing to trust implicitly, and who
can in some sense control events by the prestige of a great name. Carlyle and others have for
years been laying to the charge of representative and parliamentary government the same evils
whose germ certain British critics, as ignorant of our national character as of our geography,
are so kindly ready to find in our democracy. Mr. Stuart Mill, in his essay on "Liberty," has
convinced us that even the tyranny of Public Opinion is not, as we had hastily supposed, a
peculiarly American institution, but is to the full as stringent and as fertile of commonplace
in intellect and character under a limited as under a universal system of suffrage.

The truth is, that it is not in our institutions, but in our history, that we are to look for
the causes of much that is superficially distasteful and sometimes unpleasantly disappointing
in our national habits,--we would not too hastily say in our national character. Our most incorrigible
blackguards, and the class of voters who are at the mercy of venal politicians, have had their
training, such as it is, under forms of government and amid a social order very unlike ours.
Disgust at the general dirtiness and corruption of our politics, we are told, keeps all our
leading men out of public life. This appears to us, we confess, a rather shallow misconception.
Our politics are no dirtier or more corrupt than those of our neighbors. The famous Quam parvâ
sapientiâ regitur mundus was not said in scorn by the minister of a republic, but in sober
sadness by one whose dealings had been lifelong with the courts and statesmen of princes. The
real disgust lies in the selfish passions that are called into play by the strife of party
and the small ambitions of public men, and not in any mere coarseness in the expression of
them. We are not an elegant people: rather less so, on the whole, even in the aristocratic
South than in the democratic North. In this past year of our Lord eighteen hundred sixty-one,
we have no doubt, and we shudder to think of it, that by far the larger proportion of our fellow-citizens
shovelled their green-peas into their mouths with uncanonical knife-blades, just as Sir Philip
Sidney did in a darker age, when yet the "Times" and the silver fork were not. Nay, let us
make a clean breast of all these horrors at once, it is probably true that myriads of fair
salmon were contaminated with the brutal touch of steel in scenes of unhallowed family-festival.
The only mitigating circumstance is that such luxuries are within the reach of ten Americans
where one European sees them any nearer than through the windows of the victualler. No, we
must yield the point. We are not an elegant people, least of all in our politics; but we do
not believe it is this which keeps our first-rate men out of political life, or that it is
the result of our democratic system.

It has been our good-fortune hitherto that our annals have been of that happy kind which write
themselves on the face of a continent and in the general well-being of a people, rather than
in those more striking and commonly more disastrous events which attract the historian. We
have been busy, thriving, and consequently, except to some few thoughtful people like De Tocqueville,
profoundly uninteresting. We have been housekeeping; and why does the novelist always make
his bow to the hero and heroine at the church-door, unless because he knows, that, if they
are well off, nothing more is to be made of them? Prosperity is the forcing-house of mediocrity;
and if we have ceased to produce great men, it is because we have not, since we became a nation,
been forced to pay the terrible price at which alone they can be bought. Great men are excellent
things for a nation to have had; but a normal condition that should give a constant succession
of them would be the most wretched possible for the mass of mankind. We have had and still
have honest and capable men in public life, brave and able officers in our army and navy; but
there has been nothing either in our civil or military history for many years to develop any
latent qualities of greatness that may have been in them. It is only first-rate events that
call for and mould first-rate characters. If there has been less stimulus for the more showy
and striking kinds of ambition, if the rewards of a public career have been less brilliant
than in other countries, yet we have shown, (and this is a legitimate result of democracy,)
perhaps beyond the measure of other nations, that plebeian genius for the useful which has
been chiefly demanded by our circumstances, and which does more than war or state-craft to
increase the well-being and therefore the true glory of nations. Few great soldiers or great
ministers have done so much for their country as Whitney's cotton-gin and McCormick's reaper
have done for ours. We do not believe that our country has degenerated under democracy, but
our position as a people has been such as to turn our energy, capacity, and accomplishment
into prosaic channels. Physicians call certain remedies, to be administered only in desperate
cases, heroic, and Providence reserves heroes for similar crises in the body politic. They
are not sent but in times of agony and peril. If we have lacked the thing, it is because we
have lacked the occasion for it. And even where truly splendid qualities have been displayed,
as by our sailors in the War of 1812, and by our soldiers in Mexico, they have been either
on so small a scale as to means, or on a scene so remote from European interests, that they
have failed of anything like cosmopolitan appreciation. Our great actors have been confined
to what, so far as Europe is concerned, has been a provincial theatre; and an obscure stage
is often as fatal to fame as the want of a poet.

But meanwhile has not this been very much the case with our critics themselves? Leading British
statesmen may be more accomplished scholars than ours, Parliament may be more elegantly bored
than Congress; but we have a rooted conviction that commonplace thought and shallow principles
do not change their nature, even though disguised in the English of Addison himself. Mr. Gladstone
knows vastly more Greek than Mr. Chase, but we may be allowed to doubt if he have shown himself
an abler finance-minister. Since the beginning of the present century it is safe to say that
England has produced no statesmen whom her own historians will pronounce to be more than second-
or third-rate men. The Crimean War found her, if her own journalists were to be believed, without
a single great captain whether on land or sea, with incompetence in every department, civil
and military, and driven to every shift, even to foreign enlistment and subsidy, to put on
foot an army of a hundred thousand men. What an opportunity for sermonizing on the failure
of representative government! In that war England lost much of her old prestige in the eyes
of the world, and felt that she had lost it. But nothing would have been more unphilosophical
than to have assumed that England was degenerate or decrepit. It was only that her training
had been for so long exclusively mechanical and peaceful. The terrible, but glorious, experience
of the Indian Rebellion showed that Englishmen still possessed in as full measure as ever those
noble characteristics on which they justly pride themselves, and of which a nation of kindred
blood would be the last to deny them the praise. When the heroic qualities found their occasion,
they were not wanting.

We do not say this as unduly sensitive to the unfriendly, often insulting and always unwise,
criticisms of a large proportion of the press and the public men of England. In ordinary times
we could afford to receive them with a good-natured smile. The zeal of certain new converts
to Adam Smith in behalf of the free-trade principles whose cross they have assumed, their hatred
and contempt for all heretics to what is their doxy and therefore according to Dean Swift orthodoxy,
and the naïve unconsciousness with which they measure and weigh the moral qualities of other
nations by the yards of cotton or tons of manufactured iron which they consume for the benefit
of Manchester and Sheffield, are certainly as comic as anything in Aristophanes. The madness
of the philosopher who deemed himself personally answerable for the obliquity of the ecliptic
has more than its match in the sense of responsibility shown by British journalists for the
good conduct of the rest of mankind. All other kingdoms, potentates, and powers would seem
to be minors or lunatics, and they the divinely appointed guardians under bonds to see that
their unhappy wards do no harm to themselves or others. We confess, that, in reading the "Times,"
we have been sometimes unable to suppress a feeling of humorous pity for the young man who
does the leading articles, and who finds himself, fresh from Oxford or Cambridge and the writing
of Latin verses, called suddenly to the autocracy of the Universe. We must pardon a little
to the imperii novitas, to the necessity of having universal misinformation always on tap in
his inkstand. He summons emperors, kings, ministers, even whole nations, to the inexorable
blackboard. His is the great normal school of philosophy, statesmanship, political economy,
taste, and deportment. He must help Cavour to a knowledge of Italy, teach Napoleon to appreciate
the peculiarities of French character, interpret the American Constitution for Mr. Lincoln.
He holds himself directly accountable to heaven and earth, alike for the right solution of
the Papal Question and for the costume of his countrymen in foreign parts. Theology or trousers,
he is infallible in both. Gregory the Seventh's wildest dream of a universal popedom is more
than fulfilled in him. He is the unapproachable model of quack advertisers. He pats Italy on
the head and cries, "Study constitutional government as exemplified in England, and try Mechi's
razor-strops." For France he prescribes a reduction of army and navy, and an increased demand
for Manchester prints. America he warns against military despotism, advises a tonic of English
iron, and a compress of British cotton, as sovereign against internal rupture. What a weight
for the shoulders of our poor Johannes Factotum! He is the commissionnaire of mankind, their
guide, philosopher, and friend, ready with a disinterested opinion in matters of art or virtù,
and eager to furnish anything, from a counterfeit Buddhist idol to a poisoned pickle, for a
commission, varying according to circumstances.

But whatever one may think of the wisdom or the disinterestedness of the organs of English
commercial sentiment, it cannot be denied that it is of great importance to us that the public
opinion of England should be enlightened in regard to our affairs. It would be idle to complain
that her policy is selfish; for the policy of nations is always so. It would be foolish to
forget that the sympathy of the British people has always declared itself, sooner or later,
in favor of free institutions, and of a manly and upright policy toward other nations, or that
this sympathy has been on the whole more outspoken and enduring among Englishmen than in any
other nation of the Old World. We may justly complain that England should see no difference
between a rebel confederacy and a nation to which she was bound by treaties and with which
she had so long been on terms of amity gradually ripening to friendship. But do not let us
be so childish as to wish for the suppression of the "Times Correspondent," a shrewd, practised,
and, for a foreigner, singularly accurate observer, to whom we are indebted for the only authentic
intelligence from Secessia since the outbreak of the Rebellion, and whose strictures, (however
we may smile at his speculations,) if rightly taken, may do us infinite service. Did he tell
us anything about the shameful rout of Bull Run which could not have been predicted beforehand
of raw troops, or which, indeed, General Scott himself had not foreboded? That was not an especially
American disgrace. Every nationality under heaven was represented there, and an alarm among
the workmen on the Plains of Shinar that the foundations of the Tower of Babel were settling
could not have set in motion a more polyglot stampede. The way to blot out Bull Run is as our
brave Massachusetts and Pennsylvania men did at Ball's Bluff, with their own blood, poured
only too lavishly. To our minds, the finest and most characteristic piece of English literature,
more inspiring even than Henry's speech to his soldiers on the eve of Agincourt, is Nelson's
signal, "England expects every man to do his duty." When we have risen to that level and are
content to stand there, with no thought of self, but only of our country and what we owe her,
we need wince at no hostile sneer nor dread any foreign combination. Granted that we have been
a little boyish and braggart, as was perhaps not unnatural in a nation hardly out of its teens,
our present trial is likely to make men of us, and to leave us, like our British cousins, content
with the pleasing consciousness that we are the supreme of creation and under no necessity
of forever proclaiming it. Our present experience, also, of the unsoundness of English judgment
and the narrowness of English views concerning our policy and character may have the good result
of making our independence in matters of thought and criticism as complete as our political
emancipation.

Those who have watched the tendencies of opinion among educated Englishmen during the last
ten or fifteen years could hardly be surprised, that, when the question was presented to them
as being between aristocratic and democratic ideas, between a race of gentlemen and a mob of
shopkeepers and snobs, they should have been inclined to sympathize with the South. There have
been unmistakable symptoms of a reaction in England, since 1848 especially, against liberalism
in politics and in favor of things as they are. We are not to wonder that Englishmen did not
stop to examine too closely the escutcheon and pedigree of this self-patented nobility. With
one or two not very striking exceptions, like Lord Fairfax and Washington, (who was of kin
to one of the few British peers that have enjoyed the distinction of being hanged,) the entire
population of America is descended from the middle and lower classes in the old countries.
The difference has been, that the man at the South who raised cotton and sold it has gradually
grown to consider himself a superior being by comparison with his own negroes, while the man
at the North who raised potatoes and sold them has been content with the old Saxon notion that
he was as good as his neighbors. The descendant of the Huguenot tradesman or artisan, if in
Boston, builds Faneuil Hall or founds Bowdoin College; if in Charleston, he deals in negroes
and persuades himself that he is sprung from the loins of Baldwin, King of Jerusalem. The mass
of the population at the South is more intensely democratic, so far as white men are concerned,
than the same class at the North.

There is a little inconsistency in the English oracles in this respect; for, while they cannot
conceal a kind of sympathy with the Southern Rebels in what is supposed to be their war upon
democratic institutions, they tell us that they would heartily espouse our cause, if we would
but proclaim a crusade against Slavery. Suppose the Squires of England had got up a rebellion
because societies had been formed for the abolition of the Corn-Laws; which would the "Times"
have gone for putting down first, the rebellion or the laws? England professes not to be able
to understand the principles of this wicked, this unholy war, as she calls it. Yet she was
not so slow to understand the necessity of putting down the Irish Insurrection of 1848, or
the Indian Rebellion ten years later. She thinks it impossible for the Government of the United
States to subdue and hold provinces so vast as the Cotton States of America; yet she neither
foreboded nor as yet has found any impracticability in renewing and retaining her hold on the
vaster provinces of British India,--provinces inhabited, all of them, by races alien in blood,
religion, and manners, and many by a population greatly exceeding that of our Southern States,
brave, warlike, and, to some extent, trained in European tactics. To have abandoned India would
have been to surrender the greatness of England. English writers and speakers, in discussing
our affairs, overlook wholly the fact that a rebellion may be crushed by anything except force
of arms. Among a people of the same lineage and the same language, but yesterday contented
under the same Constitution, and in an age when a victory in the stock-market is of more consequence
than successes in the field, political and economical necessities may be safely reckoned on
as slow, but effective, allies of the old order of things. The people of this country are too
much used to sudden and seemingly unaccountable political revolutions not to be able to forfeit
their consistency without any loss of self-respect; and the rapidity with which the Southern
Rebellion was forced up to its present formidable proportions, mainly by party management,
is not unlikely to find its parallel in suddenness of collapse. But whether this prove to be
the fact or not, nay, even if the reëstablishment of the Union had been hopeless from the first,
a government which should have abandoned its capital, which should have flinched from the first
and plainest duty of self-preservation, which should have admitted by a cowardly surrender
that force was law, that treason was constitutional, and fraud honorable, would have deserved
and received the contempt of all civilized nations, of England among the first.

There is no such profound and universal alienation, still less such an antagonism in political
theory, between the people of the Northern and Southern parts of the Union, as some English
journals would infer from the foolish talk of a few conceited persons in South Carolina and
Virginia. There is no question between landholders on the one side and manufacturers and merchants
on the other. The bulk of the population, North and South, are holders of land, while the average
size of the holdings of land under cultivation is probably greater in the Free than in the
Slave States. The largest single estate in the country is, we believe, in Illinois. Generalizations
are commonly unsafe in proportion as they are tempting; and this, together with its pretty
twin-brother about Cavaliers and Roundheads, would seem to have been hatched from the same
egg and in the same mare's-nest. If we should take the statements of Dr. Cullen and Mr. Smith
O'Brien for our premises, instead of the manifest facts of the case, our conclusion in regard
to Ireland would be an anachronism which no Englishman would allow to be within half a century
of the actual condition of things. And yet could the Irish revolutionists of thirteen years
ago have had the advantage of a ministry like that of Mr. Buchanan,--had every Irish officer
and soldier been false to his honor and his allegiance,--had Ireland been supplied and England
stripped of arms and munitions of war by the connivance of the Government,--the riot of 1848
might have become a rebellion as formidable as our own in everything but territorial proportions.
Equally untrue is the theory that our Tariff is the moving cause of Southern discontent. Louisiana
certainly would hardly urge this as the reason of her secession; and if the Rebel States could
succeed in establishing their independence, they would find more difficulty in raising a national
revenue by direct taxes than the North, and would be driven probably to a tariff more stringent
than that of the present United States. If we are to generalize at all, it must be on broader
and safer grounds. Prejudices and class-interests may occasion temporary disturbances in the
current of human affairs, but they do not permanently change the course of the channel. That
is governed by natural and lasting causes, and commerce, in spite of Southern Commercial Conventions,
will no more flow up-hill than water. It is possible, we will not say probable, that our present
difficulties may result to the advantage both of England and America: to England, by giving
her a real hold upon India as the source of her cotton-supply, and to America by making the
North the best customer for the staple of the South.

We believe the immediate cause of the Southern Rebellion to be something far deeper than any
social prejudice or political theory on the part of slaveholders, or any general apprehension
of danger to their peculiar property. That cause is a moral one, and is to be found in the
recklessness, the conceit, the sophistry, the selfishness, which are necessarily engendered
by Slavery itself. A generation of men educated to justify a crime against the Law of Nature
because it is profitable, will hardly be restrained long by any merely political obligation,
when they have been persuaded to see their advantage in the breach of it. Why not, then, at
once lay the axe to the root of the mischief? Why did not England attack Irish Catholicism
in 1848? Why does not Louis Napoleon settle the Papal Question with a stroke of his pen? Because
the action of a constitutional government is limited by constitutional obligations. Because
every government, even if despotic, must be guided by policy rather than abstract right or
reason. Because, in our own case, so much pains have been taken to persuade the people of some
peculiar sanctity in human property, and to teach them the duty of yielding their moral instincts
to their duty as citizens, that even the Free States are by no means ripe for a crusade. The
single and simple duty of the Government is to put down resistance to its legitimate authority;
it meddles, and can meddle, with no claim of right except the monstrous one of rebellion. An
absolute ruler in advance of his people has been more than once obliged to abandon his reforms
to save his throne; a popular government which should put itself in the same position might
endanger not only its own hold upon power, (a minor consideration,) but, in such a crisis as
ours, the very frame of society itself. We must admit that the administration of Mr. Lincoln
has sometimes seemed to us over-cautious; that, while it has not scrupled, and wisely has not
scrupled, to go behind the letter of the law to its spirit, in dealing with open abettors of
treason in the Free States, because they were perverting private right to public wrong, it
has been as scrupulous of meddling with a rebel's legal right in man, though that man were
being used for a weapon or a tool against itself, as if to touch it were anathema. The divinity,
which is only a hedge about a king, becomes a wall of triple brass about a slaveholder.

But while we should prefer a more daring, or at least a more definite policy on the part of
the Government, we do not think the time has come for turning the war into a crusade. The example
of saints, martyrs, and heroes, who could disregard consequences because the consequences concerned
only themselves and their own life, is for the private man, and not for the statesman who is
responsible for the complex life of the commonwealth. To carry on a war we must have money,
to get money we must have the confidence of the money-holders, who would not advance a dollar
on a pledge of the finest sentiments in the world. There is something instructive in the fate
of that mob of enthusiasts who followed the banner of Walter the Penniless, a name of evil
omen. It saves trouble to say that we must fight the Devil with fire; though, when the Devil
is incarnate in human beings, that policy has never been very successful at Smithfield or elsewhere.
But in trying the fiery cure of a servile insurrection, we should run the risk of converting
the whole white population of the South into devils of the most desperate sort, with whom any
kind of reconciliation, even truce, would be impossible.

We hope and believe that the end of this war will see the snake of Slavery scotched, if not
killed. Events move,--slowly, to be sure, but they move,--and the thought of the people moves
with them unconsciously to fulfil the purposes of God. Government can do little, perhaps, in
controlling them; but it has no right to the power it holds, if it has not the insight and
the courage to make use of them at the right moment. If the supreme question should arise of
submitting to rebellion or of crushing it in a common ruin with the wrong that engendered it,
we believe neither the Government nor the people would falter. The time for answering that
question may be nearer than we dream; but meanwhile we would not hasten what would at best
be a terrible necessity, and justifiable only as such. We believe this war is to prepare the
way for the extinction of Slavery by the action of economical causes, and we should prefer
that solution to one of fire and blood. Already the system has received a death-blow in Maryland
and Missouri. In Western Virginia it is practically extinct. If the war is carried on with
vigor, it may become so before long in East Tennessee. Texas should be taken possession of
and held at any cost, and a territory capable of supplying the world with cotton to any conceivable
amount thrown open to free labor.

However regarded, this war into which we have been driven is, in fact, a war against Slavery.
But emancipation is not and could not be the object of the war. It will be time enough to consider
the question as one of military necessity when our armies advance. To proclaim freedom from
the banks of the Potomac to an unarmed, subject, and dispirited race, when the whole white
population is in arms, would be as futile as impolitic. Till we can equip our own army, it
is idle to talk of arming the slaves; and to incite them to insurrection without arms, and
without the certainty of support at first and protection afterward, would be merely sacrificing
them to no good end. It is true, the war may lack the ardent stimulus that would for a time
be imparted to it by a direct and obvious moral purpose. But we doubt whether the impulse thus
gained would hold out long against the immense practical obstacles with which it would be confronted
and the chill of disappointment which is sure to follow an attempt to realize ideal good by
material means. Nor would our gain in this respect more than compensate for the strength which
would be added to the rebels by despair. It is a question we have hardly the heart to discuss,
where our wishes, our hopes, almost our faith in God, are on one side, our understanding and
experience on the other.

Nor are we among those who would censure the Government for undue leniency. If democracy has
made us a good-natured people, it is a strong argument in its favor, and we need have no fear
that the evil passions of men will ever be buried beyond hope of resurrection. We would not
have this war end without signal and bitter retribution, and especially for all who have been
guilty of deliberate treachery; for that is a kind of baseness that should be extirpated at
any cost. If, in moments of impatience, we have wished for something like the rough kingship
of Jackson, cooler judgment has convinced us that the strength of democratic institutions will
be more triumphantly vindicated by success under an honest Chief Magistrate of average capacity
than under a man exceptional, whether by force of character or contempt of precedent.

Is this, then, to be a commonplace war, a prosaic and peddling quarrel about Cotton? Shall
there be nothing to enlist enthusiasm or kindle fanaticism? Are we to have no Cause like that
for which our English republican ancestors died so gladly on the field, with such dignity on
the scaffold?--no Cause that shall give us a hero, who knows but a Cromwell? To our minds,
though it may be obscure to Englishmen who look on Lancashire as the centre of the universe,
no army was ever enlisted for a nobler service than ours. Not only is it national life and
a foremost place among nations that is at stake, but the vital principle of Law itself, the
august foundation on which the very possibility of government, above all of self-government,
rests as in the hollow of God's own hand. If democracy shall prove itself capable of having
raised twenty millions of people to a level of thought where they can appreciate this cardinal
truth, and can believe no sacrifice too great for its defence and establishment, then democracy
will have vindicated itself beyond all chance of future cavil. Here, we think, is a Cause the
experience of whose vicissitudes and the grandeur of whose triumph will be able to give us
heroes and statesmen. The Slave-Power must be humbled, must be punished,--so humbled and so
punished as to be a warning forever; but Slavery is an evil transient in its cause and its
consequences, compared with those which would result from unsettling the faith of a nation
in its own manhood, and setting a whole generation of men hopelessly adrift in the formless
void of anarchy.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

The Armies of Europe: Comprising Descriptions in Detail of the Military Systems of England,
France, Russia, Prussia, Austria, and Sardinia, adapting their Advantages to all Arms of the
United States Service; and embodying the Report of Observations in Europe during the Crimean
War, as Military Commissioner from the United Stales Government in 1855-56. By GEORGE B. McCLELLAN,
Major-General U.S. Army. Originally published under the Direction of the War Department, by
Order of Congress. Illustrated with a Fine Steel Portrait and Several Hundred Engravings. Philadelphia:
J.B. Lippincott & Co. 8vo.

It is an interesting study to examine into the causes or motives which have produced military
books of the higher order; for we are thus vouchsafed an insight into the writer's genius,
and an intelligence of the circumstances amidst which he wrote, and of which he was often an
important controller. The Archduke Charles wrote his "Grundsätze der Strategie," etc., as a
vindication of his splendid movements in 1796, against the French armies of the Rhine and the
Sambre-et-Meuse; and it has remained at once a monument to his achievements and a standard
text-book in military science. Marmont, the Marshal Duke of Ragusa, collecting the principles
of the art of war from "long and frequent conversations with Napoleon, twenty campaigns, and
more than half a century of experience," has given us, in his "Esprit des Institutions Militaires,"
a condensed view of his own military life, as complete, if not as pleasantly diffuse, as his
large volumes of "Mémoires." Jomini, from an extended experience, and a study of the genius
of Napoleon, which his Russian position could never induce him to undervalue, has produced
those standard works which must always remain the treasure-houses of military knowledge. We
admire veracity, but let no soldier confess that he has not read the "Vie Politique et Militaire,"
and the "Précis de l'Art de la Guerre." But, in all these cases, the litera scripta has been
but the closing act,--the signing of the name to History's bead-roll of passing greatness,--the
testamentum of the old soldier whose personalty is worth bequeathing to the world.

The work before us, although of great value and present importance, is of a very different
character; as a glance at the circumstances which produced it will show. It has, however, we
would fondly hope, anticipated for its youthful author a greater success.

In 1855, Mr. Jefferson Davis, then Secretary of War, sent a military commission to Europe,
composed of Major Delafield of the Engineers, Major Mordecai of the Ordnance, and Captain McClellan,
just promoted from a Lieutenancy of Engineers to a Captaincy in the Cavalry. Major Delafield
was charged with the special subject of Engineering; Major Mordecai with Ordnance and Gunnery;
and to Captain McClellan was assigned the duty of a general report upon the Organization of
Armies, with a special hearing upon the formation of Infantry and Cavalry. Each of these gentlemen
has written a book, and that of McClellan, originally published as a Report to the Secretary
of War,--in unmanageable quarto, and at a more unmanageable price,--is now issued, in the volume
before us, with the very appropriate title, "The Armies of Europe," and in a convenient form
for the eye and the purse.

Whatever of technical value the other reports may have,--and they are, we doubt not, excellent,--McClellan's
is the only one of popular interest, the only one of rounded proportions and general importance;
and if it also contain much addressed to the professional soldier, it must be remembered that
the country is now being educated up to the intelligent perusal of such books.

Travelling in all the principal countries of Europe,--Montesquieu's assertion is now verified,
that "only great nations can have large armies,"--the commission met everywhere proper facilities
for observation. McClellan made full notes upon the spot, procured all the books of Tactics,
Regulations, Military Laws, etc., and provided himself with such models of arms, equipments,
saddles, bridles, tents, etc., as were easily transported. Operations of a difficult and laborious
character, such as carrying horses on shipboard, are fully demonstrated with diagrams. Marches,
manoeuvres, detachments, battles, are fully disclosed. Such investigations, when the French,
Italian, or German language was the medium, were comparatively easy; but in order to give a
proper comparative view, he was obliged also to study Russian, which he did successfully; by
this means he has given us a masterly summary of the Russian system, with its immense battalions,
its thousands of military schools, and its Cossack skirmishers, of wonderful endurance and
formidable fierceness.

The volume is a complete description in detail of the principal armies, and of wider scope
than would be expected; for, while the author has been very full upon the special topics assigned
him, which did not include the duties of Engineers and Engineer Troops, it is easy to see everywhere
that these latter would intrude themselves with the siren charms of a first love, and nothing
but the record could dissolve the spell. Indeed, he urgently recommends to the Government the
organization of Engineer troops, specifying their equipments, points of instruction, and duties.
In this department, his description of Military Bridges is of great value. Incident to the
faithful descriptions contained in the Report, and by far the most valuable feature of the
work, we would specify his comments upon all that he saw. They are manly and bold, but raisonnés
and just. They give token of that originality of thought which we call genius. The opening
chapter on the Crimean War is the only fair critique of that gallant, but mismanaged campaign
we remember to have seen. The author's object is to exhibit the movements of both Allies and
Russians

  "As truth will paint them, and as bards will
      not."

When MeClellan's work first appeared, the "Athenaeum" took up spear and shield; but, selon
conseil, McClellan declined to reply, and the champion fought the air, without injuring the record.

A prime interest attaches to this work, because, unconsciously, the author has given us, in
advance, his repertory of instruments and principles. From the written word we may anticipate
the brilliant achievement, while in every case the action may be tested by a reference to the
recorded principle.

The retirement of Scott places McClellan in a position where he will have neither partner nor
censor in his plans and movements. The graceful and appropriate manner in which the old veteran
leaves the field, which age and infirmity will no longer allow him to command, is but a fitting
prelude to the military rule of one upon whose brow the dew of youth still rests, and who brings
to his responsible task the highest qualities, combined with a veneration for the noble virtues
and an emulation of the magnanimous career of his predecessor, at once honorable and inspiring.

Spare Hours. By JOHN BROWN, M.D., Author of "Rab and his Friends." Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 16mo.

It has not yet been satisfactorily explained why doctors are such shrewd and genial men, and,
when they appear in the literary field, such charming writers. This is one of the curious problems
of the day, and undoubtedly holds its own answer in solution, but has not yet seen fit to make
an observable precipitate. Perhaps this is because the times are stirring, and the facts cannot
settle. A delightful exhibition is made of something extremely good to take, which we swallow
unscrupulously: in other words, we can only guess how many scruples, and of what, this blessed
medicine for the mind contains. As it is eminently fit for every American to have an hypothesis
upon every subject, we might now, with proper recklessness, rush into print with a few unhesitating
suggestions upon this singular phenomenon of doctors gifted and graceful with the pen.

We observe, at any rate, that it is something independent of climate and locality, and not
at all endemic. Otherwise it might be true that the restless and inquisitive climate of the
Atlantic coast, which wears the ordinary Yankee to leanness, and "establishes a raw" upon the
nervous system, does soften to acuteness, mobility, and racy corrugation in the breast of its
natural ally, the Doctor. For autocratic tempers are bland towards each other, and murderous
characteristics can mutually impart something homologous to the refining interchange of beautiful
souls. Therefore we do not yet know how much our climate is indebted to our doctors. It may
be suspected that they understand each other, as the quack and the fool do, whose interests
are identical.

But this will not account for the literary talent of the doctors. For they write books in England
and Scotland, in France and temperate Germany, in every latitude and with a good deal; they
are, however, defective in longitude, which is remarkable, when we consider how they will protract
their cases. With their pens they are prompt, clean, humane in the matter of ink, their first
intention almost always successful, their thought expelled by natural cerebral contraction
without stimulus, (we speak of ergot, but of "old rye" we know nothing,) their passion running
to its crisis in the minimum of time, and their affections altogether pleasanter than anything
of the kind they accuse us of having, as well as less lingering. But with their pills--well,
we all know how our ills are nursed by medicine. Is it a relief that their precept is less
tedious than their practice? It is good policy for us, perhaps, if our minds are to be under
treatment from their books,--and it grows plainer every day that no person of mind can well
escape from them,--that our bodies should continue subject to their boluses. Thus we may die
daily, but our incorporeal part is better acclimated in the invisible world of truths and realities.

No,--the doctors owe nothing to climate or race. The intelligent ones are everywhere broad,
acute, tender, and religious. They uniformly see what is natural and what is morbid, what is
fact and what is fancy, what is cutaneous and what is vital, in men and women. They stand on
unreal, conventional terms with nothing. They know healthy from inflamed tissues, and run down,
grab, and give one dexterous fatal shake to a tissue of lies. One of Dr. Brown's terriers is
not more swift, exact, and uncompromising after vermin. This excellent sense for unvarnished
realities has been attributed by some to their habit of visiting so many interiors--of men
and of their houses--whose swell-fronts are pervious to the sincerity of pain. We never see
a doctor's chaise anchored at a door but we imagine the doctor taking in freight up-stairs.
In these days he is beginning to receive more than he gives. Let no sarcastic person allude
to doctors' fees. We mean that the physician, whose humanity and intelligence are broad diplomas,
on presenting which the doors of hearts and houses open with a welcome, enters into the choicest
field of his education and research, where his tender observation walks the wards of thought,
feeling, and motive, to amass the facts of health and suffering, to be refined at the true
drama of pathos, to be ennobled by the spectacle of fair and lofty spiritual traits, to be
advised of the weaknesses which he learns to touch lightly with his caustic, while his knowing
and friendly look deprecates all excess of pain. It is a school of shrewdness, gentleness,
and faith.

But a rich subject is here, altogether too wide for a book-notice, and worthy of deliberate,
but enthusiastic treatment. Dr. John Brown of Edinburgh has consulted his own interior, and
frequented those of his diocese, to some purpose. The pieces in this volume, which the publishers
have selected from the two volumes of "Horae Subsecivae," omitting the more professional papers,
are full of humor, tenderness, and common sense. They betray only occasionally, in a technical
way, that the author is a disciple, as well as admirer, of Sydenham, and his own countryman,
Cullen. But they overflow with the best specifics of the healing art, shrewdness, independence,
nice observation; they have a woman's kindness and a man's sturdiness. They honor human nature
not the less because the writer knows how to manage it, to raise a smile at its absurdities,
to rally, pique, and guide it into health and good-humor. He is very clever with the edge-tools
in his surgeon's-case; he whips you out an excrescence before you are quite aware that he meditated
an operation, and you find that he had chloroformed you with a shrewd writer's best anaesthetic,
a humorous and genial temper.

There is a great deal of nice writing here. Happy words come at a call and occupy their inevitable
places. Now and then a Scotch word, with a real terrier phiz and the best qualities of "black
and tan," gives the page a local flavor which we should not like to miss. But the writing is
not provincial. There is Scotch character everywhere: the keenness, intensity, reverence, shaggy
humor, sly fun, and just a touch of the intolerance. The somewhat literal regard for Scripture,
the awe, and the unquestioning, childlike way of being religious, with the independence of
Kirk and Sessions and National Establishments, all belong to the best intelligence of Edinburgh.
But the literary felicity, the scholarship, the various reading, the cultivated appreciation
of books, men, and systems, while they make us admire--as a good many bright volumes printed
in Edinburgh have done before--the mental power and refinement which that most picturesque
of Northern cities nourishes, do still belong to the great commonwealth of letters, remind
us not of wynds and closes, and run away from the littleness of time and place.

If the reader would understand the difference between the sentimental and the pathetic treatment
of a subject, let him see in "Rab and his Friends" how the pen of Dr. Brown follows the essential
lines of that most pure and tender of all stories. In doing so he has given us a new creation
in Ailie Noble. Not a line can be effectively added to that ideal narrative of a true history,
not a word can be pushed from its place. The whole treatment is at once delicate, incisive,
tender, reserved, and dramatic. And after reading it,--with or without tears, according to
your capacity for dogged resistance to a distended lachrymal duct,--you will be conscious of
bearing away a sweet and subduing impression, like that which a rare friend can sometimes give,
which lingers many days.

Let nobody omit to read the "Letter to John Cairns, D.D.," because he does not care for J.C.
or know who he is. It contains some reminiscences by Dr. Brown of his father, a noted clergyman,
of whose life and character Dr. Cairns had prepared a memoir. In this, and in the Essay upon
Dr. Chalmers, Dr. Brown shows his capacity to observe and portray human moods and characteristics.
There are his usual literary excellences, brought to the service of a keen and faithfully reporting
eye, and his fine humane qualities, his tenderness, reverence, and humor.

This volume is one of the best ventures of the literary year.

Cecil Dreeme. By THEODORE WINTHROP. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 16mo.

In the death of Major Winthrop, at the promising commencement of his military career, the nation
lost one of its purest, noblest, and most capable spirits. His industry, sagacity, and intrepidity
all rested on a firm basis of fixed principle and deep enthusiasm; and had he lived, we have
little doubt that both his moral and practical power would have been felt among the palpable
forces of the country. In the articles he contributed to this magazine, describing his brief
military experience, every reader must have recognized the singular brightness of his mind
and the singular joyousness of his courage. Powers which, in meditation, worked at the bidding
of pensive or melancholy sentiments, seemed to be braced by action into unwonted healthiness
and hilarity; and had he survived the experience of the present war, there can be little doubt
that his intellect and imagination would, by contact with events, have been developed to their
full capacity, and found expression in literary works of remarkable power.

"Cecil Dreeme" is one of several novels he wrote before the war broke out, and it conveys a
striking impression of his genius and disposition. The utmost sensitiveness and delicacy of
moral sense were combined in him with a rough delight in all the manifestations of manly strength;
and these two tendencies of his nature are fitly embodied and exquisitely harmonized in the
characters of Cecil Dreeme and Robert Byng. They are opposites which by their very nature are
necessarily attracted to each other. The obstacle to their mental and moral union is found
in a third person, Densdeth, in whom manly strength and genius have been corrupted by selfishness
and sensuality into the worst form of spiritual evil. This person is simply abhorred by Cecil,
while Byng finds in him something which tempts appetite, piques curiosity, develops sensuous
feeling, and provokes pride, as well as something which excites moral disgust and loathing.
Byng's distrustful love for Emma Denman admirably represents this stage of his moral experience.

Densdeth is undoubtedly the central character of the book. It proves its creator to be a true
spiritual as well as physical descendant of President Edwards; and not even his ancestor has
shown more vividly the "exceeding sinfulness of sin." Densdeth is one of those evil natures
in whom delight in evil pleasures has subsided into a delight in evil itself, and a desire
to communicate it to others. He has the diabolical power of calling out the latent evil in
all natures with whom his own comes in contact, and he corrupts, not so much by example, as
by a direct communication of the corrupt spiritual life of his individual being. He is an accomplished
devil, wearing the guise of a New-York man of fashion and fortune,--a devil such as tempts
every person thrown into the vortex of our daily commonplace life. Every pure sentiment, noble
aspiration, and manly instinct, every natural affection, gentle feeling, and religious principle,
is tainted by his contaminating companionship. He infuses a subtle skepticism of the reality
of goodness by the mere magnetism of his evil presence. Persons who have been guarded against
the usual contrivances by which the conventional Devil works his wonders find themselves impotent
before the fascinations of Densdeth. They follow while they detest him, and are at once his
victims and his accomplices. In those whose goodness, like that of Cecil Dreeme, is founded
on purity of sentiment and strength of principle, he excites unmitigated abhorrence and strenuous
opposition; but on all those whose excellence is "respectable" rather than vital, who are good
by the felicity of their circumstances rather than the force of their conscience, he exercises
a fascination almost irresistible. To everybody, indeed, who has in him any latent evil not
overbalanced by the habitual performance of positive duties, Densdeth's companionship is morally
blighting. The character, fearful in its way as the Mephistopheles of Goethe, is represented
with considerable artistic skill.

Though the most really prominent person in the drama, he is, in the representation, kept in
the background,--a cynical, sneering, brilliant demi-devil, who appears only when some plot
against innocence is beginning its wiles or approaching its consummation.

The incidents of the novel occur in some of the best-known localities of New York. Nobody can
mistake Chuzzlewit Hotel and Chrysalis College. Every traveller has put up at the first and
visited some literary or artistic friend at the second. Indeed, Winthrop seems to have deliberately
chosen the localities of his story with the special purpose of showing that passions almost
as terrible as those which are celebrated in the tragedies of Aeschylus and Sophocles may rage
in the ordinary lodging-houses of New York. He has succeeded in throwing an atmosphere of mystery
over places which are essentially commonplace; and he has done it by the intensity with which
he has conceived and represented the internal thoughts, struggles, and emotions of the men
and women by whom these edifices of brick and stone are inhabited.

Though a clear narrator, when the story required clear narration, Winthrop perfectly understood
the art of narrating by implication and allusion. He paints distinctly and minutely, not omitting
a single detail, when the occasion demands such faithful representation of real facts and localities;
but he has also the power of flashing his meaning by suggestive hints which the most labored
description and explication could not make more effective. He makes the mind of the reader
work sympathetically with his own in building up the idea he seeks to convey. Crimes which
are nameless are mutually understood by this refined communion between author and reader. The
mystery of the plot is not directly explained, but each party seems to bring, as in private
conversation, his individual sagacity to bear upon the right interpretation.

The style of the book is admirable. It is brief almost to abruptness. The words are few, and
are crammed with all the meaning they can hold. There is not a page which does not show that
the writer is an economist of expression, and desirous of conveying his matter with the slightest
possible expenditure of ink. Charles Reade himself does not condense with a more fretful impatience
of all circumlocution and a profounder reliance on the absolute import of single words.

We might easily refer to particular scenes from this book, illustrative of the author's descriptive
and representative powers. Among many which might be noticed, we will allude to only two,--that
in which Cecil is revived from his "sleep of death," and that in the opera-house, where Byng
is apprised of the guilt of Emma Denman. Nobody can read either without feeling that in the
disastrous fight of Great Bethel we lost a great novelist as well as a chivalrous soldier and
a noble man.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

The Gypsy's Prophecy. $1.25. Great Expectations. 2 vols. New York. James G. Gregory. 16mo.
pp. 336, 334. $1.50.

The Silver Cord. A Novel. By Shirley Brooks. With Illustrations by John Tenniel. New York.
Harper & Brothers. 8vo. pp. 268. $1.00. New York. G.P. Putnam. 8vo. pp. viii., 519. $1.50.

Revised Regulations for the Army of the United States, 1861. With a Full Index. By Authority
of the War Department. Philadelphia. J.B. Lippincott & Co. 8vo. pp. 559. $2.00.

Manual of Internal Rules and Regulations for Men-of-War. By Captain U.P. Levy, U.S.N., late
Flag-Officer commanding United States Naval Forces in the Mediterranean; Originator of the
Abolition of Corporal Punishment in the United States Navy. New York. D. Van Nostrand. 18mo.
pp. 70. 30 cts.

The Rejected Stone: or, Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America. By a Native of Virginia.
Boston. Walker, Wise, & Co. 16mo. pp. 132. $1.50.

Lady Maud, the Wonder of Kingswood Chase; or, Earl Gower; or, The Secret Marriage. By Pierce
Egan. Only Complete and Unabridged Edition. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 8vo. pp.
365. $1.25. II. Boston. Brown & Taggard. 12mo. pp. 503. $1.50.

Cecil Dreeme. By Theodore Winthrop. With a Biographical Introduction by George William Curtis.
Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 360. $1.00.

Chronicle of the Conquest of Granada. From the Manuscripts of Fray Antonio Agapida. $1.50.

Woman's Rights under the Law. In Three Lectures, delivered in Boston, January, 1861. Walker,
Wise, & Co. 16mo. pp. xx., 165. 50 cts.

Eugénie Grandet; or, The Miser's Daughter. $1.00.

Record of an Obscure Man. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 216. 75 cts.

Essays. By the late George Brimley, M.A., Librarian of Trinity College, Cambridge. With an
Introduction by R.H. Stoddard. New York. Rudd & Carleton. 12mo. pp. 409. $1.25. New York. Rudd
& Carleton. 8vo. pp. 256. $1.00.

The Last Travels of Ida Pfeiffer: Inclusive of a Visit to Madagascar. With an Autobiographical
Introduction. Translated by H.W. Dulcken. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 281. $1.25.

Patriotic and Heroic Eloquence: A Book for the Patriot, Statesman, and Student. New York. J.G.
Gregory. 12mo. pp. 264. 25 cts.

Deep-Sea Soundings and Explorations of the Bottom: or, The Ultimate Analysis of Human Knowledge.
By A.B. Johnson. Printed for Private Distribution. 16mo. pp. 78. Philadelphia, J.B. Lippincott
& Co. 8vo. pp. 499. $3.00. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. Vols. I. and II. pp. xii., 301;
vi., 301. per vol. With Maps and Illustrations. New York. Harper & Brothers. 8vo. pp. 414. $2.00.