"I judge him by the blue cap," said the other, "for I cannot see his face. Hark, sir; he hallooes
to know whether the water be deep."

"Nothing like experience in this world," answered the other, "let him try."

The young man, in the meanwhile, receiving no hint to the contrary, and taking the silence
of those to whom he applied as an encouragement to proceed, entered the stream without farther
hesitation than the delay necessary to take off his buskins. The elder person, at the same
moment, hallooed to him to beware, adding, in a lower tone, to his companion, "Mortdieu--gossip--you
have made another mistake--this is not the Bohemian chatterer."

But the intimation to the youth came too late. He either did not hear or could not profit by
it, being already in the deep stream. To one less alert and practised in the exercise of swimming,
death had been certain, for the brook was both deep and strong.

"By Saint Anne! but he is a proper youth," said the elder man. "Run, gossip, and help your
blunder, by giving him aid, if thou canst. He belongs to thine own troop--if old saws speak
truth, water will not drown him."

Indeed, the young traveller swam so strongly, and buffeted the waves so well, that, notwithstanding
the strength of the current, he was carried but a little way down from the ordinary landing place.

By this time the younger of the two strangers was hurrying down to the shore to render assistance,
while the other followed him at a graver pace, saying to himself as he approached, "I knew
water would never drown that young fellow.--By my halidome [originally something regarded as
sacred, as a relic; formerly much used in solemn oaths], he is ashore, and grasps his pole!--If
I make not the more haste, he will beat my gossip for the only charitable action which I ever
saw him perform, or attempt to perform, in the whole course of his life."

There was some reason to augur such a conclusion of the adventure, for the bonny Scot had already
accosted the younger Samaritan, who was hastening to his assistance, with these ireful words:
"Discourteous dog! why did you not answer when I called to know if the passage was fit to be
attempted? May the foul fiend catch me, but I will teach you the respect due to strangers on
the next occasion."

This was accompanied with that significant flourish with his pole which is called le moulinet,
because the artist, holding it in the middle, brandishes the two ends in every direction like
the sails of a windmill in motion. His opponent, seeing himself thus menaced, laid hand upon
his sword, for he was one of those who on all occasions are more ready for action than for
speech; but his more considerate comrade, who came up, commanded him to forbear, and, turning
to the young man, accused him in turn of precipitation in plunging into the swollen ford, and
of intemperate violence in quarrelling with a man who was hastening to his assistance.

The young man, on hearing himself thus reproved by a man of advanced age and respectable appearance,
immediately lowered his weapon, and said he would be sorry if he had done them injustice; but,
in reality, it appeared to him as if they had suffered him to put his life in peril for want
of a word of timely warning, which could be the part neither of honest men nor of good Christians,
far less of respectable burgesses, such as they seemed to be.

"Fair son," said the elder person, "you seem, from your accent and complexion, a stranger;
and you should recollect your dialect is not so easily comprehended by us; as perhaps it may
be uttered by you."

"Well, father," answered the youth, "I do not care much about the ducking I have had, and I
will readily forgive your being partly the cause, provided you will direct me to some place
where I can have my clothes dried; for it is my only suit, and I must keep it somewhat decent."

