The brother and sister, having thus cast in their lots together, settled at Racedown Lodge
in Dorsetshire in the autumn of 1795.  They had there a pleasant house, with a good garden,
and around them charming walks and a delightful country looking out on the distant sea.  The
place was very retired, with little or no society, and the post only once a week.  But of employment
there was no lack.  The brother now settled steadily to poetic work; the sister engaged in
household duties and reading, and then when work was over, there were endless walks and wanderings.
Long years afterwards Miss Wordsworth spoke of Racedown as the place she looked back to with
most affection.  ‘It was,’ she said, ‘the first home I had.’

The poems which Wordsworth there composed were not among his best,—‘The Borderers,’ ‘Guilt
or Sorrow,’ and others.  He was yet only groping to find his true subjects and his own proper
manner.  But there was one piece there composed which will stand comparison with any tale he
ever wrote.  It was ‘The Ruined Cottage,’ which, under the title of the ‘Story of Margaret,’
he afterwards incorporated in the first Book of ‘The Excursion.’  It was when they had been
nearly two years at Racedown that they received a guest who was destined to exercise more influence
on the self-contained Wordsworth than any other man ever did.  This was S. T. Coleridge.  One
can imagine how he would talk, interrupted only by their mutually reading aloud their respective
Tragedies, both of which are now well-nigh forgotten, and by Wordsworth reading his ‘Ruined
Cottage,’ which is not forgotten.  Miss Wordsworth describes S. T. C., as he then was, in words
that are well known.  Alfoxden was a large furnished mansion, which the brother and sister
had to themselves.  ‘We are three miles from Stowey, the then abode of Coleridge,’ writes the
sister, ‘and two miles from the sea.  Wherever we turn we have woods, smooth downs, and valleys,
with small brooks running down them, through green meadows, hardly ever intersected with hedgerows,
but scattered over with trees. The hills that cradle these valleys are either covered with
fern and bilberries, or oak woods, which are cut for charcoal.  Walks extend for miles over
the hill-tops, the great beauty of which is their wild simplicity—they are perfectly smooth,
without rocks.’  It was in this neighbourhood, as the two poets loitered in the silvan combs
or walked along the smooth Quantock hill-tops, looking seaward, with the ‘sole sister,’ the
companion of their walks, that they struck each from the other his finest tones.  It was with
both of them the heyday of poetic creation.  In these walks it was that Coleridge, with slight
hints from Wordsworth, first chaunted the vision of the Ancient Mariner, and then alone, ‘The
rueful woes of Lady Christabel.’  This, too, was the birthday of some of the finest of the
Lyrical Ballads, of ‘We are seven,’ ‘Simon Lee,’ ‘Expostulation and Reply,’ and ‘The Tables
Turned,’ ‘It is the first mild day in March,’ and ‘I heard a thousand blended notes.’ Coleridge
never knew again such a season of poetic creation, and Wordsworth’s tardier, if stronger, nature,
received from contact with Coleridge that quickening impulse which it needed, and which it
retained during all its most creative years.

But if Coleridge, with his occasional intercourse and wonderful talk, did much for Wordsworth,
his sister, by her continual companionship, did far more.  After the great revulsion from the
excesses of the French Revolution, she was with him a continually sanative influence.  That
whole period, which ranged from 1795 till his settling at Grasmere at the opening of the next
century, and of which the residence at Racedown and Alfoxden formed a large part, was the healing
time of his spirit.  And in that healing time she was the chief human minister.  Somewhere
in the ‘Prelude’ he tells that in early youth there was a too great sternness of spirit about
him, a high but too severe moral ideal by which he judged men and things, insensible to gentler
and humbler influences.  He compares his soul to a high, bare craig, without any crannies in
which flowers may lurk, untouched by the mellowing influences of sun and shower.  In contrast
with this temporary mood of his own he turns to one of another temper:—

            ‘I knew a maid,
   A young enthusiast who escaped these bonds,
   Her eye was not the mistress of her heart,
   She welcomed what was given, and craved no more;
   Whate’er the scene presented to her view,
   That was the best, to that she was attuned
   By her benign simplicity of life.  God delights
   In such a being; for her common thoughts
   Are piety, her life is gratitude.’

But it was not his sister the Poet speaks of here, but of his first meeting with her who afterwards
became his wife.

The results of the residence at Racedown, but especially at Alfoxden, appeared in the shape
of the first volume of the ‘Lyrical Ballads,’ which were published in the autumn of 1798 by
Mr. Cottle at Bristol.  This small volume opens with Coleridge’s ‘Rime of the Ancyent Marinere,’
and is followed by Wordsworth’s short but exquisite poems of the Alfoxden time, and is closed
by the well-known lines on Tintern Abbey.  Wordsworth reaches about the highest pitch of his
inspiration in this latter poem, which contains more rememberable lines than any other of his,
of equal length, save perhaps the Immortality Ode.

Every one will recollect how, after its high reflections he turns at the close to her, ‘his
dearest Friend,’ ‘his dear, dear Friend,’ and speaks of his delight to have her by his side,
and of the former pleasures which he read in ‘the shooting lights of her wild eyes,’ and then
the almost prophetic words with which he forebodes, too surely, that time when ‘solitude, or
fear, or pain, or grief should be her portion.’

That September (1798) saw the break-up of the brief, bright companionship near Nether Stowey.
Coleridge went with Wordsworth and his sister to Germany, but soon parted from them and passed
on alone to Göttingen, there to study German, and lose himself in the labyrinth of German metaphysics.
Wordsworth and Dorothy remained at Goslar, and, making no acquaintances, spent the winter—said
to have been the coldest of the century—by the German stoves, Wordsworth writing more lyrical
poems in the same vein which had been opened so happily at Alfoxden.  There is in these poems
no tincture of their German surroundings; they deal entirely with those which they had left
on English ground.  Early in spring they returned to England, to spend the summer with their
friends the Hutchinsons at Sockburn-upon-Tees.  There Dorothy remained, while in September
Wordsworth made with Coleridge the walking tour through the lakes of Westmoreland and Cumberland,
which issued in his choice of a home at Grasmere for himself and his sister.

At the close of the year Wordsworth and his sister set off and walked, driven forward by the
cold, frosty winds blowing from behind, from Wensleydale over Sedbergh’s naked heights and
the high range that divides the Yorkshire dales from the lake country.  On the shortest day
of the year (St. Thomas’s Day) they reached the small two-story cottage at the Townend of Grasmere,
which, for the next eight years, was to be the poet’s home, immortalised by the work he did
in it.  That cottage has behind it a small orchard-plot or garden ground shelving upwards toward
the woody mountains above, and in front it looks across the peaceful lake with its one green
island, to the steeps of Silver-how on the farther side.  Westward it looks on Helm Craig,
and up the long folds of Easedale towards the range that divides Easedale from Borrowdale.
In this cottage they two lived on their income of a hundred pounds a year, Dorothy doing all
the household work, for they had then, it has been said, no servant. Besides this, she had
time to write out all his poems—for Wordsworth himself could never bear the strain of transcribing—to
read aloud to him of an afternoon or evening—at one such reading by her of Milton’s Sonnets
it was that his soul took fire and rolled off his first sonnets—and to accompany him on his
endless walks.  Nor these alone—her eye and imagination fed him, not only with subjects for
his poetry, but even with images and thoughts.  What we are told of the poem of the ‘Beggars’
might be said of I know not how many more.  ‘The sister’s eye was ever on the watch to provide
for the poet’s pen.’  He had a most observant eye, and she also for him; and his poems are
sometimes little more than poetic versions of her descriptions of the objects which she had
seen; and which he treated as seen by himself.  Look at the poem on the ‘Daffodils’ and compare
with it these words taken from the sister’s Journal.  It was as unlike the lives of most literary
or other men, as the most original of his poems are unlike the ordinary run of even good poetry.
Their outward life was exactly like that of the dalesmen or ‘statesmen’—for so the native yeomen
proprietors are called—with whom they lived on the most friendly footing, and among whom they
found their chief society.  Outwardly their life was so, but inwardly it was cheered by imaginative
visitings to which these were strangers.  Sheltered as they then were from the agitations of
the world, the severe frugality of the life they led ministered in more than one way to feed
that poetry which introduced a new element into English thought.  It kept the mind cool, and
the eye clear, to feel once more that kinship between the outward world and the soul of man,
to perceive that impassioned expression in the countenance of all nature, which, if felt by
primeval men, ages of cultivation have long forgotten.  It also made them wise to practise
the same frugality in emotional enjoyment which they exercised in household economy.  It has
been well noted {0a} that this is one of Wordsworth’s chief characteristics.  It is the temptation
of the poetic temperament to be prodigal of passion, to demand a life always strung to the
highest pitch of emotional excitement, to be never content unless when passing from fervour
to fervour.  No life can long endure this strain.  This is specially seen in such poets as
Byron and Shelley, who speedily fell from the heights of passion to the depths of languor and
despondency.  The same quick using up of the power of enjoyment produces the too common product
of the blasé man and the cynic.  Wordsworth early perceived that all, even the richest, natures
have but a very limited capacity of uninterrupted enjoyment, and that nothing is easier than
to exhaust this capacity.  Hence he set himself to husband it, to draw upon it sparingly, to
employ it only on the purest, most natural, and most enduring objects, and not to speedily
dismiss or throw them by and demand more, but to detain them till they had yielded him their
utmost.  From this in part it came that the commonest sights of earth and sky—a fine spring
day, a sunset, even a chance traveller met on a moor, any ordinary sorrow of man’s life—yielded
to him an amount of imaginative interest inconceivable to more mundane spirits.  The simple
healthiness and strict frugality of his household life suited well, and must have greatly assisted,
that wholesome frugality of emotion which he exercised.

