It seems to me if we are to understand, in conformity with the thought of the age, any particular
book in the Bible, there are three steps through which we must pass. We must first ask ourselves
the kind of people to whom the book was originally written. We must know their habits of life
and of thought. Until this is clear in our minds the book can have little significance. Having
built up as nearly as may be the life and thought of the time, we must next decide what is
the inherent truth taught to the people of that time by the book under consideration. Much
that is written must be simply the setting in which alone that truth could reach them. This
extraneous detail gives vigor and color to the message but is not the message itself. The last
step and the hardest one to take, the one that to some minds seems almost irreverent, is to
decide the form that message must take to-day to convey to our minds the same truth which the
original message conveyed to the people of its time. In so far as we succeed in taking these
three steps, we shall get the true message which this book holds for us to-day.

When Paul in his first burning letter told the Corinthian congregation that their women should
be silent in their churches, he is not, it seems to me, giving a message which in those terms
applies to the world to-day. If a woman has anything that is worth saying she has a perfect
right to say it in church. In any denomination in which religious observance is not ecclesiastically
formal she will be allowed that privilege. By an interesting peculiarity of mind on our part
she may be permitted to do so upon Wednesday evenings, when our early prejudice still prevents
her speaking on Sunday. What is the truth of the teaching of Paul in this matter? The Christians
of Corinthian times had already begun to suffer from persecution. They were already despised
and distrusted. Men had come to speak ill of them. Paul's injunction concerning the silence
of women in churches was simply an injunction against their doing those things which in the
thought and habit of those times were associated generally with looseness of character. Fine
Corinthian women did not speak in public. A woman who would consent to speak before a group
of men of Corinth of that day would by that fact have proclaimed herself a woman of loose morals.
Paul's injunction is that, in this desperate struggle Christian women should do nothing which
could possibly bring them into disrepute. The lives of Christians must be above suspicion.
This message is certainly as true to-day as it was in the time of Paul and Corinth. Whether
or not a woman speaks in church to-day has no bearing whatever upon the question. The question
is how she speaks and what she says. If her life gives force to her message and her message
contains God's truth she is entirely free to speak.

In similar fashion we have changed most beautifully the message which we have come to love,
as the Mizpah message: "The Lord watch between thee and me while we are absent one from the
other." We have absolutely transformed and glorified the message. It was once the calling down
of the wrath of Jehovah upon one or other of two herdsmen if either of them should fail to
comply with the agreement to remain within his own boundary. These men whose herdsmen were
constantly stealing each other's cattle agreed to separate because they could not live in unity.
They set up a heap of unhewn stone, and called upon God to guard and to see that neither of
them passed beyond the boundary of the other. What was once a threat between warring herdsmen
has become a binding link between Christian brothers. No longer do we call upon the Lord to
guard in our absence lest our enemy encroach upon our domain. Now we call upon him to bind
our hearts together so that neither time nor circumstance can bring division between us. The
menace of a herdsman's wrath has become one of the tenderest messages of Christian love.

In the light of the principles stated above, what is the essential truth that lies back of
the earliest chapters of Genesis? First, that there is one God. Slowly it had been borne in
upon the Hebrew mind as upon no other tribe in the world that the Lord God is one God. Nearly
all the world besides believed in many gods. Each nation had a God peculiarly its own, each
city had a minor god caring for it particularly. There were gods of the woods, gods of the
oceans, gods of the streams. Gods and goddesses were everywhere. To this people wandering through
the terrible monotony of the sandy desert, the "Garden of Allah," there came the inspired comprehension
of the eternal oneness of Almighty God. First, he was to most of them the God of the Hebrew,
stronger than the gods of the nations. After a while under the teaching of prophet after prophet
there finally came to the entire nation the exalted conception that God is one and there is
no other God. This is one of the imperishable revelations of all time. Beside this, all suggestions
of fifth or sixth day, of hours or of ages are absolutely insignificant. These are but the
clothing of the idea which makes it acceptable to its time. This clothing must change with
every age if it would reach thoroughly the minds of the age. Underneath and forever lies the
glorious truth that the Lord God is one God.

The second truth which seems to me to underlie this magnificent parable of creation is the
truth that this great God has created the universe and that he cares for his people. Gods before
had been objects of terror. Gods before had lived lives such as the people themselves would
not have respected among their companions. Gods before were to be shunned. If one could but
escape the attention of the gods it was his greatest good fortune. Now we have the conception
of an all-knowing, ever-present God to whom his people are dear. The terms in which it was
stated in those days matter but little. To modern psychologists even the idea that people are
dear to God seems speaking too humanly. Yet the truth involved must come in terms that the
people of to-day understand. We can best comprehend God if we think of Him as loving and chastening,
even though down in our hearts we know that these terms are not high enough, are too human
to apply to an Eternal God. But we know no better and they tell us the truth even though the
terms may in time pass completely away.

Last of all and perhaps most characteristic of the Hebrew people is the great lesson that this
Eternal God, who created the universe and cares for his people, demands righteousness of his
people. To the nations round about religion was not a matter of righteousness. For them religion
had nothing to do with morality. Thieves might have gods favorable to them quite as well as
righteous men. The worship of Diana of the Ephesians or of Astarte in the groves of the Asia
Minor coast could be so unspeakably licentious and vile as not to admit of description to-day.
Yet this was all religion. To the Hebrew came the inspired, exalted conception of a God who
demanded righteousness of his people. Beside this wonderful revelation to the human mind details
of serpents, and of apples, of names of men and of women, of gardens and of swords are absolutely
but the transitory clothing. This brought them to the minds of the times. The value of the
form is evidenced by the fact that it brought the conception. But we must not lose the glory
of the conception in an over regard for the clothing in which the idea came.

Does this mean that Genesis has served its purpose and is to-day to be conceived of as a beautiful
relic of the past, to be reverently enshrined but not seriously accepted? Far from it. The
glory of the Genesis story lies in its wonderful power to grow. It strengthened the minds of
a persecuted tribe wandering in the desert who finally settled in a small and barren country.
It brought the truth to them so clearly that they have persuaded much of the world of that
truth and bid fair to persuade the rest. The story has grown with the mind of man. As it served
the Hebrew in his time it has grown to serve others to this day. Each generation has read the
story in the light of its own times and each generation will continue to read the story in
the light of its advancing knowledge. The only part of the story that can be affected is the
clothing, the inherent truth remains forever. Furthermore, the story which persuaded the childhood
of race is the story which will persuade the childhood of to-day. In no other form could the
great truth of the Bible be brought to our children as well as in the form of these early chapters.
In early life our children will accept these stories as literally as the ancient Hebrew accepted
them. As they grow in knowledge, unconsciously and without jar, if we do not jar them, our
children will read into the story what God has taught them in the world outside. The shock
which came to their elders need never come to them. It is our fault if our children are disturbed
by the conflict between religion and science which disturbed us. There is no difference between
God's revelation of Himself, as we have it in the Bible, and God's revelation of Himself in
nature. The better we know the Bible and the better we know nature the clearer this will be to us.

Perhaps the most severe shock that has come to the mind of religious man from the teachings
of science has been the at first almost unsupportable idea that man is the descendant of creatures
of which the ape is to-day the nearest representative. He had learned from Genesis the altogether
adorable conception that he was made in the image of his Maker. It lifted him; it strengthened
him; it gave him more power to struggle. He might know that he had marred that likeness by
wrong-doing, he might understand that the fullness of the glory of God's image could not shine
through his own face. Yet he believed that he was, in spite of all his imperfections, made
in the image of his Maker. Now comes this horrible linkage with a miserable brute to either
shock and confound him or to degrade him. We can easily imagine, some of us have bitterly experienced,
the shock of this changed conception. But it was only because we mistook the clothing for the
truth in both cases. We read science in its own terms; we read Genesis in its own terms. They
did not use the same language and they jarred us to the very soul. Slowly, however, we are
coming out of the darkness of that battle; slowly the glorious light of the beautiful truth
is breaking into our minds and our hearts.

Michael Angelo painted a wonderful picture of "The Judgment." Here, seated upon a throne, which
after all is only a magnificent chair, sits a venerable figure of what is really but a nobly-proportioned
man, to whom the nations come for their final reward. He separates the righteous from those
who must forever be sundered from their God. Seen through the distant past it still remains
a majestic picture; but no painter would think of repeating its conception to-day.

