Dov. English it, Von Osdat; thou'rt a scholar.

Von Os. "God and Nature have made nothing in vain. Posterity may discover as much in mosses,
as of utility in other herbs."

Dov. And, truly, so they may: one lichen is already used as a blessed medicine in asthma; and
another to thicken milk, as a nutritive posset. And who, enjoying the rich productions of our
present state of horticulture, can recur without wonder to the tables of our ancestors? They
knew absolutely nothing of vegetables in a culinary sense; and as for their application in
medicine, they had no power unless gathered under planetary influence, "sliver'd in the moon's
eclipse."

Von Os. When Mercury was culminating, or Mars and Venus had got into the ninth house.

Dov. 'Tis curious to reflect, that at the vast baronial feasts, in the days of the Plantagenets
and Tudors, where we read of such onslaught of beeves, muttons, hogs, fowl and fish, the courtly
knights and beauteous dames had no other vegetable save bread--not even a potato!

Von Os.

Dov. And when the cloth was drawn--

Von Os. Cloth!--

Dov. They had scarce an apple to give zest to their wine.

Von Os. We read of roasted crabs; and mayhap they had baked acorns and pignuts.

Dov. Ha! ha! ha!--Caliban's dainties. Now we have wholesome vegetables almost for nothing,
and pine-apples for a trifle. Thanks to Mr. Knight--push the bottle--here's to his health in
a bumper.

Von Os. Who, walking on Chester walls in those days, and seeing the Brassica oleracea, where
it grows in abundance, would have supposed that from it would spring cabbages as big as drums,
and cauliflowers as florid as a bishop's wig?

Dov. Or cautiously chaumbering an acrid sloe, imagine it to be the parent of a green gage?

Von Os. This is the Education of Vegetables.

Dov. The March of Increment!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TULIP TREE.

This tree is now in bloom. It is a native of North America, where it is vulgarly called the
poplar. The first which produced blossoms in this country, is said to have been at the Earl
of Peterborough's, at Parson's Green, near Fulham. In 1688 this tree was cultivated by Bishop
Compton at Fulham, who introduced a great number of new plants from North America. At Waltham
Abbey, is a tulip tree, supposed to be the largest in England. The leaves of the tulip tree
are very curious, and appear as if cut off with scissors. The flowers, though not glaring,
are singularly beautiful, resembling a small tulip, variegated with green, yellow and orange,
standing solitary at the ends of the branches. I saw one of these curious trees in full bloom
a few days since between Edmonton and Enfield.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANGES DURING THE MATURATION OF FRUIT.

The sap is changed into a viscid fluid, which circulates under the bark: this is called cambium.
When it is too abundant it is effused, part of its water evaporates, and it becomes gum. If
the vital circle is not interrupted, the fluid traverses the branches, and the peduncle arrives
in the ovary, and constitutes the pericarp. In this passage it is partly modified: it appropriates
to itself the oxygen of its water of composition; hence the malic, citric, and tartaric acids.
As the fruit becomes developed, the pellicle thins, becomes transparent, and allows both light
and heat to exercise a more marked influence. It is during this period that maturation commences.
The acids react on the cambium, which flows into the fruit, and, aided by the increased temperature,
convert it into saccharine matter; at the same time they disappear, being saturated with gelatine,
when maturation is complete.--London Medical and Surgical Journal.

We may here observe that in a recent paper, by Mr. J. Williams, in the Transactions of the
Horticultural Society, the cause of apples becoming russet is attributed to the alternating
temperature, light, shade, dryness, and moisture, which occur many times in the course of a
day, when July or August is showery. Continued rain, preceded and followed by a cloudy sky,
does not seem to produce the same effect, but the sudden, intense light which commonly succeeds
a shower at the time the fruit is wet, injures the skin, and occasions small cracks, like the
network upon a melon.

       *       *       *       *       *

MIGRATION OF BIRDS.

Whatever theory of instinct may be finally fixed upon as the most correct and philosophical,
(to account for the migratory movements of birds,) it is obvious that we cut rather than untie
the gordian knot when we talk of the foresight of the brute creation. We might as well talk
of the foresight of a barometer. There can be little doubt that birds, prior to their migratory
movements, are influenced by atmospherical changes, or other physical causes, which, however
beyond the sphere of our perceptions, are sufficient for their guidance. That they are not
possessed of the power of divination may be exemplified by the following instance. The winter
of 1822 was so remarkably mild throughout Europe, that primroses came generally into flower
by the end of December,--rye was in ear by the middle of March, and vines, in sheltered situations,
blossomed about the end of that month,--so that an assured and unchecked spring was established
at least four or five weeks earlier than usual;--yet neither the cuckoo nor the swallow arrived
a single day before their accustomed periods.

       *       *       *       *       *

STATUE OF MR. PITT.

This splendid tribute to the memory of the darling minister, has been placed at the south side
of Hanover Square. It is of bronze, and stands on a granite pedestal, of size disproportionate
to the height and bulk of the figure. The artist is Mr. Chantrey: the work being at the cost
of the nobility of the land, and a few ardent admirers of "the system" introduced by Mr. Pitt
into the government of this country. We have long had festal celebrations and joyous commemorations
of the natal day and deeds of the minister--"the darling of fame"--but the above is the most
lasting memorial. Its bronze will in all probability outlast the mettle of party. The resemblance
is considered striking, and the effect of the statue is bold and dignified. Biographers tell
us that "in person, Pitt was tall, slender, well-proportioned, and active. He had blue eyes,
rather a fair complexion, prominent features, and a high, capacious forehead. His aspect was
severe and forbidding; his voice clear and powerful; his action dignified, but neither graceful
nor engaging; his tone and manners, although urbane and complacent in society, were lofty,
and even arrogant, in the senate. On entering the house, it was his custom to stalk sternly
to his place, without honouring even his most favoured adherents with a word, a nod, or even
a glance of recognition."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DIORAMA, REGENT'S PARK

Has reopened with two new views--Paris from Montmartre, (by no means a new, but, perhaps, the
best, point of view of the city,)--and the famed Campo Santo of Pisa. The execution of both
scenes is calculated to maintain the unique reputation of the establishment. They have the
fine effects, the finishing touches, of master-hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRIALS OF CHARLES I.

(With those of some of the Regicides have been prepared for the 31st volume of the Family Library.
We suspect the editor to be M. D'Israeli, who has been poring over the records and fingering
the dust of the Royal "martyr" for many years past. Our honourable friend, Clavering, of the
Metropolitan, in his recollections of the British Museum, long since, says, "there sat D'Israeli,
daily extracting from the voluminous M.S. letters of James I. and Charles I." Whoever the compiler
of this volume may be, it must be allowed that, in the form of notes and biographies, he has
brought into less than 350 pages a greater collection of interesting incidents connected with
his main subject than many writers would have cared to assemble; and he has accordingly produced
a work, in every respect, fitted for popular reading. We quote passages from the Execution
to the Interment of Charles, but we have not room for the Editor's very pertinent "Remarks
on the Trial.")

On the morning of his death, Charles, according to the relation of his faithful attendant,
Sir Thos. Herbert, awoke about two hours before daybreak, after a sound sleep of four hours.
He called to Herbert, who lay on a pallet, by his bedside, and bade him rise; "for," said the
King, "I will get up, I have a great work to do this day." He then gave orders what clothes
he would wear, and said to his attendant, "Let me have a shirt on more than ordinary, by reason
the season is so sharp[4] as probably may make me shake, which some observers will imagine
proceeds from fear. I would have no such imputation. I fear not death--death is not terrible
to me. I bless God, I am prepared." Soon after the King was dressed, Bishop Juxon came to him,
according to his appointment the night before. He remained an hour in private with him, when
Herbert was called in, and the Bishop prayed with the King, using the prayers of the church,
and then read the 27th chapter of St. Matthew, which so beautifully describes the passion of
our Saviour. The King thanked the Bishop for his choice of the lesson; but he was surprised
and gratified to learn that it was the lesson for the day according to the calendar.

    [4] The day was so piercing that the king, at the persuasion of
    Bishop Juxon, wore a cloak till the moment of his death.

About ten o'clock Colonel Hacker knocked at the King's chamber door, and, being admitted by
Herbert, came in trembling, and announced to the King that it was time to go to Whitehall,
where he might have further time to rest; and soon afterwards the King, taking the Bishop by
the hand proposed to go. Charles then walked out through the garden of the palace into the
Park, where several companies of foot waited as his guard; and, attended by the Bishop on one
side, and Colonel Tomlinson on the other, both bare-headed, he walked fast down the Park, sometimes
cheerfully calling on the guard to "march apace." As he went along, he said, "he now went to
strive for an heavenly crown, with less solicitude than he had often encouraged his soldiers
to fight for an earthly diadem."

At the end of the Park, the King[5] went up the stairs leading to the long gallery, and so
into the Cabinet Chamber of the Palace of Whitehall. Being delayed here in consequence of the
scaffold not being ready, he offered up several prayers, and entered into religious discourse
with the Bishop. About twelve he ate some bread, and drank a glass of claret, declining to
dine after he had received the sacrament.

    [5] The late Sir Henry Englefield related a traditional
    anecdote, that Charles, in passing through the Park, pointed out
    a tree near the entrance from Spring Gardens (where the cows at
    present stand,) saying, "That tree was planted by brother
    Henry."

When Charles arrived at Whitehall, the Colonels Hacker, Huncks, and Phayer produced to Tomlinson
the warrant for his execution; and in the Horn Chamber the King was delivered by Tomlinson
into the custody of those officers; Charles requested Tomlinson, however, to remain with him
to the last, and acknowledged his kind and respectful conduct by presenting to him a gold toothpicker
and case which he carried in his pocket. Tomlinson also introduced to him Mr. Seymour, who
brought a letter from the Prince to his father, with whom the King conversed, and charged him
with various messages for the Prince.

In the mean time a different scene was passing in Ireton's chamber, a small room in another
part of the palace. Ireton and Harrison were here in bed; and Cromwell, Axtell, Huncks, Hacker,
and Phayer were present. Cromwell commanded Huncks to draw up an order to the executioner pursuant
to the warrant for the King's execution. Huncks refused; whereupon Cromwell was highly incensed,
and called him a peevish, froward fellow; and Axtell exclaimed, "Colonel Huncks, I am ashamed
of you:--the ship is now coming into the harbour, and will you strike sail before we come to
anchor?" Cromwell then went to a table, and, as it would appear, wrote the order to the executioner,
and then gave the pen to Hacker, who, as one of the officers charged with the execution of
the warrant, signed it.[6] Cromwell, and the rest of the officers, then went out of the chamber,
and, in a few minutes, Hacker came and knocked at the door of the chamber where the King was,
with Tomlinson, the Bishop, Herbert, and some of his guards. Herbert and the Bishop were deeply
affected at this signal for their final separation from their sovereign and master. The King
stretched out his hand to them, which they kissed, falling on their knees and weeping, the
King helping the aged bishop to rise. He then bade Hacker to open the door and he would follow;
and he was conducted by Hacker, Tomlinson, and other officers and soldiers, through the banquetting
house by a passage broken through the wall, where the centre window now is. The street now
called Parliament Street was at that time crossed by two ranges of buildings belonging to the
palace of Whitehall, with wide arched gateways crossing the street, and forming the public
thoroughfare. One gateway was opposite to Privy Gardens; and there was a way over it from these
gardens belonging to the palace, to pass into St. James's Park. The other building traversing
the street was the sumptuous gallery of Whitehall, built by Henry VIII., the scene of so many
adventures and events of various descriptions in the reigns of Elizabeth, James, and the two
Charles's. Connected with this gallery was "a beautiful gatehouse," over a noble archway. Lord
Leicester says, in his Journal (p. 60.),--"The scaffold was erected between Whitehall gate
and the gallery leading to St. James's." Lilly asserts, that it was just at the spot where
the blood of a citizen had been shed at the commencement of the rebellion, when a mob were
vociferating "No Bishop" under the windows of the palace, and some cavaliers sallied out to
disperse them, and one was killed. A strong guard of several regiments of horse and foot being
posted about the scaffold, so that the people could not approach near enough to hear any discourse
from the King, he addressed his last sentences chiefly to the Bishop, Colonel Tomlinson, and
the other officers who stood near him.

    [6] See the evidence on the trials of Hacker, Axtell, and Hulet,
    State Trials, vol. v.

"The Bishop. Though your Majesty's affections may be very well known as to religion; yet it
may be expected that you should say something thereof for the world's satisfaction."

"The King. I thank you heartily, my Lord, for that I had almost forgotten it.

Then to Colonel Hacker he said, "Take care that they do not put me to pain: and, Sir, this
and it please you--"

But a gentleman coming near the axe, the King said, "Take heed of the axe, pray take heed of
the axe."

Then speaking unto the executioner, he said, "I shall say but very short prayers, and when
I thrust out my hands--"

Then turning to the Bishop, he said, "I have a good cause, and a gracious God on my side."

"The Bishop.

"The King. I go from a corruptible to an incorruptible crown, where no disturbance can be,
no disturbance in the world."

"The Bishop. You are exchanged from a temporary to an eternal crown; a good exchange."

Then the King said to the executioner, "Is my hair well?" and took off his cloak and his George,
giving his George to the Bishop, saying, "Remember." Then he put off his doublet, and being
in his waistcoat, he put on his cloak again; then looking upon the block, he said to the executioner,
"You must set it fast."

"Executioner. It is fast, Sir."

"The King. When I put out my hands this way (stretching them out), then--" After that, having
said two or three words to himself, as he stood with his hands and eyes lift up, immediately
stooping down, he laid his neck upon the block.[7] And then the executioner again putting his
hair under his cap, the King, thinking he was going to strike, said, "Stay for the sign."

    [7] It being doubted whether the king would submit to the
    executioner, staples were driven into the block, and hooks
    prepared, in order, if necessary, to confine his head forcibly
    to the block. On the trial of Hugh Peters in 1660, it was sworn
    that this was done by his orders given on the scaffold to one
    Tench, a joiner; in Houndsditch. See State Trials, vol. v.

"Executioner. Yes, I will, and please your Majesty."--After a little pause, the King stretching
forth his hands, the executioner at one blow severed his head from his body, and held it up
and showed it to the people, saying, "Behold the head of a traitor!" At the instant when the
blow was given, a dismal universal groan was uttered by the people (as if by one consent) such
as was never before heard; and as soon as the execution was over, one troop of horse marched
rapidly from Charing Cross to King Street, and another from King Street to Charing Cross, to
disperse and scatter the multitude.

