"La Trape," I said to my valet--the same who was with me at Cahors--"what is the name of the
innkeeper at Poissy, at whose house we are accustomed to dine?"

"Andrew, may it please your lordship."

"Ha! Ha! I thought so!" I exclaimed, smiting my thigh. "Simon and Andrew his brother! Answer,
knave; and if you have permitted me to be robbed these many times, tremble for your ears! Is
he not brother to the smith at Aubergenville who has just shod my horse?"

La Trape professed to be ignorant on the point. But a groom who had stayed with me, having
sought my permission to speak, said it was so, adding that Master Andrew had risen in the world
through dealings in hay, which he was wont to take into Paris and sell, and that he did not
now acknowledge, or see anything of his brother, the smith.

On receiving this confirmation of my suspicion, my vanity as well as my love of justice led
me to act with the promptitude which I have exhibited in greater emergencies. I rated La Trape
for his carelessness in permitting this deception to be practised; and the main body of my
attendants being now in sight, I ordered him to take two Swiss and arrest both brothers without
delay. There remained three hours of daylight, and I judged that by hard riding they might
reach Rosny with their prisoners before bedtime.

I spent some time, while still on the road, in considering what punishment I should inflict
on the culprits, and finally laid aside the purpose I had at first conceived--of dealing severely
with them--in favour of a plan that I thought might offer me some amusement. For the execution
of this, I depended upon Maignan, my equerry, a man of lively imagination, and the same who
had, of his own motion, arranged and carried out the triumphal procession in which I was borne
to Rosny, after the battle of Ivry. Before I sat down to supper, I gave him his directions;
and, as I had expected, news was brought to me, while I was at table, that the prisoners were
without.

On this, I informed the Duchess and the company--for, as was usual, a number of my country
neighbours had come to compliment me on my return--that there was sport of a rare kind on foot;
and we adjourned, Maignan and four pages bearing lights before us, to that end of the terrace
which abuts on the linden avenue. Here a score of grooms, holding aloft torches, had been arranged
in a semicircle, so that they enclosed an impromptu theatre, which was as light as in the day.
On a sloping bank at the end of the terrace, seats had been placed for those who had supped
at my table, while the rest of the company found such places of vantage as they could, their
number, indeed, amounting, with my household, to two hundred persons. In the centre of the
open space a small forge-fire had been kindled, the red glow of which added much to the strangeness
of the scene; and on the anvil beside it were ranged a number of horses' and donkeys' shoes,
with a full complement of tools used by smiths.

All being ready, I gave the word to bring in the prisoners; and, escorted by La Trape and six
of my guards, they were marched into the arena. In their pale and terrified faces, and the
shaking limbs which scarce supported them, I read both the consciousness of guilt and the apprehension
of immediate punishment; it was plain that they expected nothing less. I was very willing to
play with their fears, and for some time looked at them in silence, while all wondered with
lively curiosity what would ensue. In the end, I addressed them gravely, telling the innkeeper
that I knew well he had loosened each year a shoe of my horse, in order that his brother might
profit by the job of replacing it; and then I proceeded to reprove the smith for the ingratitude
which had led him to return my bounty by the conception of so knavish a trick.

Upon this they confessed their guilt, and flinging themselves upon their knees, with many tears,
begged for mercy. After a decent interval I permitted myself to be moved.

"Your lives shall be spared," I pronounced. "But punished you must be. I ordain that Simon
the smith fit, nail, and properly secure a pair of iron shoes to Andrew's heels, and that then,
Andrew, who by that time will have learned somewhat of the smith's art, do the same to Simon.
So will you both be taught to avoid such tricks in the future."

It may well be imagined that a judgment so justly adapted to the offence charmed all save the
culprits; and in a hundred ways the pleasure of those present was evinced: to such a degree
indeed that Maignan had difficulty in restoring gravity to the assemblage. This done, however,
Master Andrew was taken in hand, and his wooden shoes removed. The tools of his trade were
placed before Simon, but he cast glances so piteous, first at his brother's feet, and then
at the shoes, as again gave rise to an amount of merriment that surpassed all, my pages in
particular well-nigh forgetting my presence, and rolling about in a manner unpardonable at
another time. However, I rebuked them, and was about to order the sentence to be carried into
effect, when the remembrance of the many pleasant simplicities which the smith had uttered
to me, acting upon a natural disposition to mercy which the most calumnious of my enemies have
never questioned, induced me to give the prisoners a chance of escape. "Listen," I said, "Simon
and Andrew. Your sentence has been pronounced and will be executed, unless you can avail yourself
of the condition I now offer. You shall have three minutes: if in that time either of you can
make a good joke, he shall go free. If not--let a man attend to the bellows, La Trape!"

This charmed my neighbours, who were now well assured that I had not promised them a novel
entertainment without good grounds; for the grimaces of the two knaves thus bidden to jest
if they would save their skins were so diverting they would have made a nun laugh. The two
looked at me with their eyes as wide as plates, and for the whole of the time of grace never
a word could they utter save howls for mercy. "Simon," I said gravely, when the time was up,
"have you a joke? No. Andrew, my friend, have you a joke? No. Then----"

I was about to order the sentence to be carried out when the innkeeper flung himself again
upon his knees and cried out loudly--as much to my astonishment as to the regret of the bystanders,
who were bent on seeing so strange a shoeing feat--"One word, my lord! One word! I can give
you no joke! But I can do a service, a service to the King! I can disclose a plot, a wicked
conspiracy against him!"

I need not say how greatly I was taken aback by this public announcement. But I had been too
long in the King's employment not to have remarked how strangely things are brought to light;
and on hearing the man's words, which were followed by a stricken silence, I did not fail to
look sharply at the faces of such of those present as it was possible to suspect. I failed,
however, to observe any sign of confusion or dismay, or anything more particular than such
a statement was calculated to produce. Doubting much whether the man was not playing with me,
I then addressed him sternly, warning him to beware lest in his anxiety to save his heels by
falsely accusing others, he lose his head. For that, if his conspiracy should prove to be an
invention of his own, I should certainly consider it my duty to hang him.

He still persisted, however, in his story, and even added desperately, "It is a plot, my lord,
to assassinate you and the King on the same day."

This statement went home; for I had good reason to know that at that time the king had alienated
many by his infatuation for Madame de Verneuil; while I had to reckon with all whom my pursuit
of his interests injured in reality or appearance. Forthwith I directed that the prisoners
should be led in to the chamber adjoining my private closet, and taking the precaution to call
my guards about me, since I knew not what attempt despair might not breed, I withdrew myself,
making such apologies to the company as the nature of the case permitted.

I ordered Simon the smith to be first brought before me, and in the presence of Maignan I severely
examined him as to his knowledge of any conspiracy. He denied, however, that he had heard of
the matters referred to by his brother, and persisted so firmly in the denial that I was inclined
to believe him. In the end he was removed and Andrew was brought in. The innkeeper's demeanour
was such as I have often observed in intriguers brought suddenly to book. He averred the existence
of the conspiracy and that its objects were those which he had stated, and he offered to give
up his associates; but he conditioned that he should do this in his own way, undertaking to
conduct me and one other person--but no more, lest the alarm should be given--to a place in
Paris on the following night, where we could hear the plotters state their plans and designs.
In this way only, he urged, could proof positive be obtained.

I was naturally startled by this proposal, and inclined to think it a trap. But more leisurely
consideration dispelled my fears. The innkeeper had held no parley with any one save his guards,
since his arrest, and could neither have warned his accomplices, nor acquainted them with a
design the execution of which depended on his confession to me. In the end, therefore, I accepted
his terms--with a private reservation that I would have help at hand; and before daybreak next
morning I left Rosny, which I had only seen by torchlight, with my prisoner and a select body
of Swiss. We entered Paris in the afternoon in three parties, with as little parade as possible,
and resorted to the Arsenal, whence, as soon as evening fell, I made my way to the King.

A return so sudden and unexpected, was as great a surprise to the Court as to Henry, and I
was not slow to mark the discomposure which appeared on more than one face as the crowd in
the chamber fell back for me to approach my master. Still, I was careful to remember that this
might arise from other causes than guilt. The King received me with his wonted affection; and
divining that I must have something important to communicate, he withdrew with me to the farther
end of the chamber, where we were out of earshot of the Court. I related the story to his Majesty,
keeping back nothing.

He shook his head, saying merely, "The fish, to escape the frying-pan, grandmaster, will jump
into the fire. And human nature, save in our case, who can trust one another, is akin to the
fishy."

I was touched by the compliment, but not convinced. "You have not seen the man, sire," I said.
"And I have had that advantage."

"You believe him?"

"In part," I answered, with caution. "So far as to be assured that he thinks to save his skin,
which he can only save if he be telling the truth. May I beg you, sire," I added, seeing the
direction of his glance, "not to look so fixedly at the Duke of Epernon? He grows uneasy."

"'Conscience makes'--you know the rest."

"Nay, sire, with submission," I replied, "I will answer for him; if he be not driven by apprehension
to do something reckless."

"I am taking your warranty every day!" my master said, with the grace which came so natural
to him. "But now in this matter what would you have me do?"

"Double your guards, sire, for to-night. That is all. I will answer for the Bastille and the
Arsenal; and holding these, we hold Paris."

But thereupon the king declared a decision, which I felt it to be my duty to combat with all
my influence. He had conceived the idea of being the one to accompany me to the rendezvous.
"I am tired of the dice," he complained, "and sick of tennis, at which I know everybody's strength.
Madame de Verneuil is at Fontainebleau; the Queen is unwell. Oh, Sully, I would the old days
were back when we had Nèrac for our Paris, and knew the saddle better than the armchair."

"The King belongs to his people."

"The fowl in the pot?" he replied. "To be sure. But time enough to think of that to-morrow."
And do what I would I could not turn him. In the end, therefore, I took my leave of him as
if for the night, and retired leaving him at play with the Duke of Epernon. But an hour later,
towards eight o'clock, he made an excuse to withdraw to his closet, and met me outside the
eastern gate of the Louvre. He was masked, and had with him only Coquet, the master of the
household. I too had taken a mask and was esquired by Maignan, under whose orders were four
Swiss--whom I had chosen because they spoke no French--and who had Andrew in charge. I bade
Maignan follow the innkeeper's directions, and we proceeded in two parties through the streets
in the direction of the Arsenal, until we reached the mouth of an obscure lane near the gardens
of St. Pol, so narrow that the decrepit wooden houses shut out well-nigh all view of the sky.
Here the prisoner halted and called upon me to fulfil the terms of my agreement. With misgiving
I complied. I bade Maignan remain with the Swiss at a distance of fifty paces--directing him
to come up only if I should whistle or give the alarm; then I myself, with the King and Andrew,
proceeded onward in the deep shadow of the houses. I kept my hand on my pistol, which I had
previously showed to the prisoner, intimating that on the first sign of treachery I should
blow his brains out. However, in spite of this precaution, I felt uncomfortable to the last
degree. I blamed myself for allowing the King to expose himself to this unnecessary danger;
while the meanness of the quarter, the fetid air, the darkness of the night which was cold
and stormy, and the uncertainty of the event lowered my spirits, and made every splash in the
kennel, or stumble on the reeking slippery pavements--matters over which the King grew merry--seem
no light troubles to me. We came at length to a house which, as far as we could judge in the
darkness, seemed to be of rather greater pretensions than its fellows. Here, our guide stopped,
and whispered to us to mount some steps to a raised wooden gallery, which intervened between
the lane and the doorway. On this, beside the door, a couple of unglazed windows looked forth.
The wooden lattice which covered one was sufficiently open to allow us to see a large bare
crazy room, lighted by a couple of rushlights. Directing us to place ourselves close to this
window, the innkeeper knocked at the door in a peculiar fashion, entered, and appeared at once
in the lighted room, of which we had a view. Gazing through the window we were surprised to
find that the only person within save Andrew, was a young woman, who, crouching over a smouldering
fire, was crooning a lullaby while she attended to a large black pot.

"Good evening, mistress!" the innkeeper said, advancing to the fire. He masked well his nervousness:
nevertheless, it was patent to us.

"Good evening, Master Andrew," she replied, looking up and nodding, but showing no sign of
surprise at his appearance. "Martin is away, but he may return at any moment."

"To-night?"

"Yes."

"Is he still of the same mind?"

"Quite."

"Ah! That is so, is it. And what of Sully?" he continued, somewhat hoarsely. "Is he to die also?"

"They have decided that he must," the girl answered gloomily.

