Beneath the folded V of filmy lace on April's bosom her heart was beating passionately, and
the rose-wreathed hat fortunately drooped enough to hide the tears of mortification that filled
her eyes.  Her name to be parodied and bandied about the ship on men's lips!  A poor thing,
but her own!  One that for all her ups and downs she had striven and contrived to keep untarnished.
How dared Diana Vernilands do this thing to her?  What foolishness had she herself been guilty
of to put it in another's power to thus injure her?

Her eyes were so blurred with tears that she did not notice at what particular moment another
occupant had usurped the chair of Major Sarle. It was a man this time.  April hastily seized
a book and began to read. He must have stolen up with the silence of a tiger, and he reminded
her of tigers somehow, though she could not quite tell why, except that he was curiously powerful
and graceful looking.  His hair, which grew in a thick short mat, was strongly sprinkled with
silver, but his skin, though brick-red, was unlined.  She judged him to be a sailor-man, for
he had the clear and innocent eye of one who has looked long on great spaces. These were her
conclusions, made while diligently reading her book.  He, too, was busy reading in the same
fashion, but, manlike, was slower in his deductions.  By the time she had finished with his
hair he had not got much further than her charming ankles.  Certainly, he had ascertained that
she was a pretty woman before he took possession of his chair, but that was merely instinct,
the fulfilling of a human law.  Detail, like destruction, was to come after.  He lingered over
the first detail.  They were such very pretty ankles.  It did not seem right that they should
be resting on the hard deck instead of on a canvas foot-rest.  He remembered that his own chair
had a foot-rest, but it was in his cabin. Should he go and fetch it?  Dared he offer it to
her?  He was on hail-fellow-well-met terms with lions and tigers, as April had curiously divined,
but having enjoyed fewer encounters with women, was slightly shy of them.  However, being naturally
courageous, he might presently have been observed emerging from a deck cabin with a canvas
foot-rest in his hand, and it was only the natural sequence of events that while attempting
to hitch it on his chair his guileless gaze should discover that April's feet were without
support.  He looked so shy and kind for such a sun-bitten, weather-hardened creature, that
she had no heart to refuse the friendly offer, even had she felt the inclination.  Besides,
the advances made to her in the rôle of Lady Diana were very different to those she had so
often been obliged to repulse as April Poole.

She felt, too, that here was a man not trying to make friends with any ulterior motive, but
just because on this pleasant, delightful morning it was pleasant and delightful to talk to
someone and share the pleasure.

Vereker Sarle had made the voyage to South Africa so many times that he had lost count of them,
and knew Madeira so well that it bored him to go ashore there any more.

"We have the best of it from here, in spite of a little coal dust," he told her, for with a
great deal of rattling, banging, and singing on the lower decks the ship was taking on her
voyage ration of coal.  "Still, you should go ashore and see it some time.  It is worth a visit
for the sake of the gardens, the breakfast of fresh fish at the hotel on the hilltop, and the
bumping rush down again in the man-drawn sleighs."

He took it for granted that she was a woman travelling for pleasure and likely to be back this
way soon.  While she gave a little inward sigh, wondering whether she would ever have the money
to return to England, or if it would be her fate to live in exile for ever.

Sarle presented her with one of his simple maxims of life.

"All good citizens of the world should do everything once and once only," he averred, with
his frank and disarming smile.  "If we stuck to that rule life would never go stale on us."

"I'm afraid it would hardly apply to everyday life and all the weary things we have to do over
and over again."

"I was thinking of the big things," he said slowly.  "Like potting your first elephant or falling
in love.  I don't know what equivalents women have for these things."

April could not forbear a little ripple of laughter.

"I believe they fall in love, too, sometimes," she said.  But Sarle, with his sea-blue gaze
on her, answered gravely:

"I know very little about them."

It was hard to decide whether he was an expert flirt with new methods, or really and truly
a man with a heart as guileless as his eyes.  But, at any rate, he was amusing, and April forgot
her tears and anger completely in the pleasant hour they spent together until the passengers,
recalled by the ship's siren, began to return from ashore.

Diana and her bodyguard were the last to arrive, the men laden with fruit, flowers, and numerous
parcels, and the girl more openly careless of the rest of the world than before.  They took
possession of a group of chairs that did not belong to them, and scattered their possessions
upon the deck.  Pomegranates, nectarines, and bananas began to roll in every direction, to
the inconvenience of the passers-by, but what did that matter?  Diana lit a cigarette, declaring
that it was too hot for words, and that she must have a John Collins.  They all ordered John
Collinses.  The handsome man fanned Diana with a large palm leaf, and she looked at him with
languorous eyes.

April grew hot inside her skin.  Conversation interrupted by the noise around them, both she
and Sarle had immersed themselves once more in their books.  But April, at least, was profoundly
conscious of everything said and done by the neighbouring group, and she longed to take Diana
Vernilands by the shoulders and give her a sound shaking.  As for the three men who were encouraging
and abetting the little minx, it would have been a pleasure to push them separately and singly
overboard.  She did not know how she could have managed to sit so still, except that Sarle
was there reading by her side, silent and calm, apparently noticing nothing extraordinary in
the behaviour of their neighbours.

A steward brought the John Collinses--four tall glasses of pale liquid and ice, some stuff
red as blood floating on the top.  No sooner had Diana tasted hers than she set up a loud wail
that there was not enough Angostura in it.  One of the men hurried away to have this grave
defect remedied, and the moment he was out of sight Diana took up his as yet untouched glass,
and with two long straws between her lips, skilfully sucked all the red stuff from the top
of the drink and replaced the glass.  Above the delighted laughter of her companions, April
heard a woman's scornful remark further down the deck:

"It is only the April Fool!"

That was the little more that proved too much.  The real April closed her book sharply and
left her chair.  Walking to the deck-rail, she stood leaning over, thinking hard, trying to
decide how best to get hold of Diana Vernilands and tell her firmly that this folly must stop
at once.

She felt very miserable.  Madeira, fading in the wake of the ship, with already the blue haze
of distance blurring its outlines, seemed to her like the dream she had lived in these last
few days . . . the golden dream in which everyone liked and trusted her, and her beauty was
a pleasure instead of a burden.  Tomorrow she must return to her destiny of shabby clothes
and second places, with the added bitterness of knowing her name made the byword of the ship!
That was something she could never live down, if the voyage lasted a year.  There would merely
be two April fools instead of one, and she the wretched masquerader in borrowed plumes not
the least of them!  Slowly she turned away from the rail and went to her cabin.  A line sent
by a steward brought Diana there at the double-quick.  She burst into the cabin, the open note
in her hand.

"What do you mean?  Is this the way you keep faith? . . .  Trying to slither out of our bargain
before it is a week old!"

"It is you who have broken faith," retorted April indignantly.  "Surely it was in the bargain
that you should behave with common decency and not make my name notorious!"

"Rot!" was the airy answer.  "A few old pussy cats with their fur brushed the wrong way, that's
all.  Who's going to mind what they say?"

"Do you realize that you are known from one end of the ship to the other as the April Fool?"

Diana burst out laughing.

"I know who started that . . . the poisonous asp I share my cabin with. Just because I have
seen her putting on her transformation, and know how many kinds of paints she uses to build
up her face!  If it had been you it would have been just the same.  You'd have been the April
Fool instead, that's all.  You ought to be jolly grateful, instead of bullying me."

She sat down on the lounge, smiling and sparkling, and took out a cigarette.  April, in whom
laughter was always near the surface, could have smiled herself had she not been nearer weeping.
After all, Diana's pranks and antics were in no way vicious, but seemed merely the result of
the lifelong drastic restraint hitherto exercised over her.  Her vitality was breaking out
like a fire that has been too long covered up.  But there was no knowing where she would stop,
and what would not be consumed in the merry blaze.

"Well, I'm not grateful," she said firmly, "and if you want to be talked about in future, it
will have to be under your own name."

"Oh, April!"  Diana's jauntiness left her instantly.  "I beg of you, don't be unkind.  I am
having such a topping time.  I've never been so happy in my life.  If you only knew how dull
I've been with old Aunt Grizel always hounding me to death.  Don't go and spoil my first good
time."

"It is you who are spoiling it.  You forget that I have to earn my living and am dependent
on the world's good opinion.  Where shall I be at the end of the voyage with the frivolous
reputation you are building up for me?"

"I won't do it any more.  I'll be so good.  You'll see how I'll change from now on."

"The mischief is already done, unfortunately."

"All the same, we can't possibly change now," pleaded Diana.  "What good will it do us? . .
. and you will get the worst of it, my dear.  The world is a bundle of snobs, and the people
on the ship thoroughly represent it.  They will soon forgive me, but your crime will be unpardonable.
They will be simply furious with you for taking them in."

This was the tongue of truth, as April knew well.  She looked at the other girl ruefully.

"How can I trust you any longer?  I saw you with those men on deck . . . playing the fool .
. . making yourself cheap.  Oh, Diana, how can you? . . . under my name or any other, you are
still a lady with certain rules to observe."

Diana flushed.

"You don't understand . . . I can't explain to you what it means to me to break loose from
convention for a little while . . . it's something in my blood that has to come out.  But,
indeed, April, I swear to you if you will only go on I will behave.  I really will.  I can't
help what is past, but there shall be nothing fresh for them to carp at in the future, anyhow.
Do be a sport and consent, won't you?"

In the end, by pleading, beguiling, and piling promise on promise, she got her way, and thereafter
the game went on--with a difference.  They still called her the April Fool, because names like
that stick; but as far as could be seen, she committed no fresh escapades to deserve the title.
Yet the real April Poole sometimes wondered if the last phase of this folly was not worse than
the first.  She could not in justice deny that Diana was much quieter and more orderly, but
it seemed a pity that her quietness should take the form of sitting for long hours at a time
in rapt silence with a certain extremely handsome man.  This was Captain the Hon. Geoffrey
Bellew, on his way to South Africa as attaché to a Governor somewhere in the interior.  He
it was with whom Diana had been on such happy terms the day of landing at Madeira.  The two
other men had been cast forth like Gadarene swine.  Bellew and Diana were sufficient unto themselves.
Eternally together, sometimes they walked the deck, or threw quoits, or played two-handed card
games; but ever they avoided large companionable games, and always they sought the dusky corner
in which to sit undisturbed, gazing into each other's eyes.  Strictly speaking, there was nothing
to cavil at in this.  Numbers of other couples were doing the same.  These little games of
two and two go forward all the time on voyages to the Cape (especially nearing the Equator),
and are the joy of the genial-hearted.  Even those who have no little games of their own are
wont to look on sympathetically, or, better still, to turn away the understanding eye.  The
long, lazy, somnolent days and the magic nights, star-spangled above and lit with phosphorescent
seas below, lend themselves to the dangerous kind of flirtation that says little and looks
much, and if there is any place in the world where Cupid is rampant and "Psyche may meet unblamed
her Eros," it is on the deck of a liner in the tropics.

But either Diana was one of those unfortunate girls who cannot glance over the garden wall
without being accused of stealing peaches, or else she had too thoroughly got people's backs
up during the first week at sea, for everyone looked cold-eyed at her romance and called it
unromantic names.  There were continual little undercurrents of gossip going on about her beneath
the otherwise pleasant surface of everyday life.  April did not talk gossip nor listen to it,
but she was vaguely aware of it.  Except for this, she would have been the happiest girl in
the world, and, indeed, she did not allow it to bother her too much, having made up her mind
to cast care to the winds and enjoy herself while the sun shone.  Destruction might come after--at
Cape Town, perhaps, but if it did, tant pis!

Something of Diana's recklessness entered into her, only that it did not take the form of outraging
the convenances, but just of enjoying life to the full with the permission and approval of
the world.  She loved the summer seas, and each blue and golden hour seemed all too short for
the pleasure to be stuffed into it.

Everyone was delightful to her.  Gone were the days when all women's hands were against her
and her hand against all men.  When she had time to think about it, she fully recognized that
most of the admiration and kindness tendered to her by the other passengers was entirely worthless,
and merely the result of snobbery.

But she had neither time nor inclination to go too deeply into the matter with herself.  Her
heart very ardently desired to believe that some at least of the people who made such a fuss
over her liked her for herself alone, regardless of the rank and wealth she was supposed to
possess. Sarle, for instance--Vereker Sarle, the shy man of wild places as she soon learned
him to be, "the man who owned the largest and most up-to-date ranch--Northern Rhodesia," people
informed her . . . surely to him she was a charming girl, as well, or before, she was Lady
Diana Vernilands.  She wanted to believe it, and she did believe it.  Not a very difficult
task to believe anything on sapphire seas decorated by golden dawns and rose-red sunsets. 
Cynical truths have no room to blossom in such surroundings.  It was sheer joy to be alive,
and she threw herself into the merry routine of the days with all the zest of youth.  Her beautiful,
athletic figure had been trained in many gymnasiums, but never before had she known the delight
of exercise in the wild, fresh air of the open sea, where her muscles felt like rippling music,
and her blood seemed full of red roses.  Her eyes had changed from their smoky sadness to the
dewy radiance of hyacinths plucked at dawn, and her skin wore the satiny sheen, rose-tinted,
of perfect well-being. She wished the voyage would last for ever.

Nothing succeeds like success.  Because she was brilliant and happy, and apparently had everything
she wanted, Luck smiled, and all good things came her way.  She was acclaimed a champion at
deck games, and unremittingly sought as a partner.  In the evenings she never lacked companions
to help her dance the soles off her shoes.  She played auction like a fiend and always held
the cards; won all the prizes in the sports for running, jumping, threading the needle, and
holding eggs in spoons; bowled everyone at cricket.  It seemed she could do nothing wrong or
badly.  Finally, at the fancy dress ball, when everyone turned out in wonderful garments planned
and prepared long months before, she easily captured the votes of the crowd as the wearer of
the most original and charming costume created on the spur of the moment.

There had been only one fancy dress in Diana's wardrobe, that of a Persian lady; and for once
she showed herself greedy in the matter of clothes, and calmly commandeered it without consulting
April.  Yet the latter's fanciful imitation of a well-known poster, composed of inexpensive
calicoes (bought from that emporium of all wants and wonders--the barber's shop), had triumphed
over the gorgeous veils and jewels and silken trousers of the Persian houri and swept the unanimous
vote of the ship into April's lap.  Enough in all this to turn any girl's head, and though
natural dignity and a certain attractive quality of humility that was hers kept April's heart
sweet, she was sometimes in danger of becoming slightly tête montée.  But she always pinched
herself in time, with the reminder that it was all only a dream from which she must awaken
very soon.  For the nineteen halcyon days of the voyage were speeding by and coming to an end.
Hot, hard blue skies gleamed overhead, and at night came the moon of Africa, pearl-white instead
of amber-coloured, as it looks in Europe.  Strange stars appeared, too, bigger, more lustrous,
than the stars of cooler climes, and seeming to brood very low over the world.  The "Milky
Way" was a path of powdered silver.  The "Coal Sack" showed itself full of brilliant jewels.
And the Southern Cross!  When April first saw it mystically scrolled across the heavens, like
a device upon the shield azure of some celestial Galahad, its magic fell across her soul, and
would not be lifted.

This is one of the first spells Africa puts upon those whom she means to make her own.  Ever
after, with the poignant memory of that Cross of straggling stars there is a thought of Africa,
and the two cannot be torn apart.  For April there was always to be a memory of Vereker Sarle,
too, associated with it, for he it was who first picked out the Cross for her in the luminant
heavens, and he it was who said to her on the night before they reached Cape Town:

"There seems to be some kind of blessing in that old Cross held out over us as we come trailing
back."

After that first day at Madeira she had not seen a great deal of Vereker Sarle.  He had dropped
back quietly from the crowd that ringed her in, and become a looker-on, sometimes barely that,
for he was a great poker-player, and spent much time in the smoke-room with one or two hard-looking
citizens who were plainly not drawing-room ornaments.  April had missed him, with a little
pain in her heart, for instinct told her that he was one of the men who count in the world.
Also, she had divined that his heart was as clear as his eyes.  Though his face was so scarred
and rugged as to inspire in the wit of the ship the jest that it had been chewed at by one
of the lions he had hunted, there was yet something in it that suggested the gentleness of
a child, and that knight-like chivalry that she had sought but never found in any man.  So
it hurt her a little when she thought of it in the night hours, that he should keep aloof from
her, yet in a way she was glad, for she could not so ardently have enjoyed playing her rôle
if Sarle had looked on too much with his innocent, yet keen gaze.  It was by accident that
he found her alone that night, between dinner and dancing, and they stayed looking at the stars
and talking of the land they were to reach sometime within the next two days.  He was not a
great talker, and most of the information April gathered was in the form of half-scornful,
half-wistful remarks.  He spoke of Africa as a man might speak of some worthless woman, whom
he yet loved above all peerless women.  Of the lure and bane of her.  How she was the home
of lies and flies, the grave of reputation, the refuge of the remittance man and the bad egg;
the land of the unexpected pest, but never the unexpected blessing; of sunstroke and fever;
scandals and broken careers; snobbery, bobbery, and highway robbery.  How, yet, when one had
been away from her for a little while, sometimes for a few months only, one forgot all these
things and remembered only with hunger and aching the pink-tipped hills of her, the crystal
air, royal sunsets and tender dawns; the unforgettable friends she had given, the exquisite
reveries her wild spaces had inspired; the valiant men who lie buried in her breast, the sweeping
rivers and leagues and leagues of whispering grasses.  How, suddenly, the nostalgia for the
burn and the bite of her bitter lips seizes upon the men who have known her too long and too
well, dragging them from ease and comfort and the soft cushions of life, back across the seas
to her gaunt and arid breast.

"And there seems to be some kind of blessing in that old Cross held over us as we come trailing
back!"

His smile was scoffing and a little weary, but behind it April heard longing in his voice,
and saw the searching of his eyes towards where land would soon appear.  And what he was feeling
strangely communicated itself to her.  The subtle hand of Africa was laid upon her heart, and
she trembled.  In that moment she sickened suddenly of her false position.  Why was she not
coming to this watchful land frankly and with clean hands, instead of in the coils of a foolish
pretence?  She looked at the fine, open face of the man at her side and was ashamed.  An impulse
seized her to tell him the truth, but the thought of Diana drew her up sharply.  Had she the
right to disclose the secret before first consulting the other girl, or at least telling her
what she meant to do? There had of late been something about Diana that called for this consideration.
She had grown so quiet and pale.  Her gay laughter was seldom heard, and though she still sat
about with Bellew a great deal, no one ever heard them talking much.  They seemed to revel
in silence.  It was not difficult to divine what spell was upon them, and April was more glad
than she could tell.

For if it came to pass that Diana should get something out of this masquerade, something beyond
mere frivolous enjoyment, then the means would have justified the end, and neither would have
cause for reproach. How fitting, too, for Diana and Bellew, both of the same world and social
position, to find each other in such a disinterested way.  Really, it looked as if everything
were for the best in the best of all possible worlds.  It was only when Sarle's clear gaze
was upon her that April's soul stirred with a sense of guilt and a longing to discontinue the
deceit, harmless as it was.  His simple, candid personality made it impossible to remain with
him and not be sincere.  A very panic of haste seized her to find Diana and arrange some plan
of action.  Abruptly she left him, and though dancing had begun and she saw her partner bearing
down on her, she fled in the direction of the music saloon, where Diana and Bellew might most
frequently be found.  But they were nowhere in sight, and their dusky and palm-sheltered corner
was in possession of Mrs. Stanislaw, who instantly pounced on April with a request for her
autograph.  Everyone was walking about with birthday and autograph books that night.  Others
were carrying about large photographs of the ship and begging people to sign their names upon
it, as a souvenir of the voyage. These things are done upon every trip to the Cape.

While April stood turning the pages of the autograph album and wondering what name to put down,
she got one of the worst jolts of her life.

"I have found out two very interesting things," said Mrs. Stanislaw, in her soft and serpentine
manner.  "The woman whose children Miss Poole is going to governess at the Cape is Cora Janis,
one of my most intimate friends.  And . . ." she paused dramatically.  April's fingers still
fluttered the pages, but her heart took a bound and then stood still.

"How very interesting," she stammered, "and what else?"

"Captain Bellew is a married man!"

PART II

April closed the book and handed it back without writing anything.

"If that is true, I really do not see what it has to do with you--or me," she said coldly.

"Oh, I know it is true," said Mrs. Stanislaw, airily ignoring the rest of April's remark. 
"I had it from a lady who is travelling second-class because she has a bevy of children.  She
knows Mrs. Bellew quite well, and, curiously enough, is a friend also of Cora Janis, who wrote
to her some time ago asking her to look out for Miss Poole on the voyage.  Naturally, Cora
thought her governess would also be travelling second."  Mrs. Stanislaw smiled drily.  "She
little knows our April Fool."

The girl's fascinated eyes watched the line of her smile.  It was like a thin curved knife,
all the crueller for being artificially reddened.

"Why should you have such a down on her?"

The older woman's hard, handsome eyes took expression of surprise.

"A down on her?  You are mistaken.  I am only sorry that a girl should so cheapen herself and
her sex generally."

April could have shaken her, but it seemed wiser to try propitiation instead.  Her own career,
as well as Diana's reputation, was at stake.

"After all, she has harmed no one but herself, Mrs. Stanislaw.  As for Captain Bellew, I daresay
he told her long ago about his being married. . . ."

"If you think so you think worse of her than I do," said Mrs. Stanislaw acidly, "and I could
hardly suppose that!"

"I do not think badly of her at all," retorted April indignantly.  "She is only a girl, and
if she has been misled--well, it seems to me that the situation calls for a little human charity
rather than condemnation."

"Of course," said the soft-voiced one.  "I quite agree.  Far be it from me to condemn.  One
has, however, certain duties to one's friends."

April saw clearly what she meant, and that it was as useless to try to divert her from her
intention as to argue with an octopus.  The very fact that she knew Mrs. Janis would probably
put an extinguisher on April's career as a governess.  Her impersonation of Lady Diana was
bound to come out, and if Mrs. Janis was cut on the same pattern as her friend, she would be
truly outraged by such an impertinence in a mere governess.  There was little to do but keep
a tight lip and hope for the best.  For the moment, indeed, her troubles were swamped by a
flood of pity for Diana.  She felt sure that Diana was in love with Bellew, and feared that
he had not told her the truth.  On the other hand, he might honourably have done so, and Diana
being the reckless scatterbrain she was, still chose to dally on the primrose path of danger.
It was hard to know what to do.

On the main deck dancing was in full swing, and the first sight that met her eyes was Diana
and Bellew scampering in a tango.  Diana wore a satin gown of curious blue that gleamed and
shone like the blue light of sulphurous flames, and as she danced she trilled a little French
song that was often on her lips:

  "Tout le mond
  Au salon
  On y tan-gue, on y tan-gue,
  Tout le mond
  Au salon
  On y tan-gue, tout en rang."

It was a parody on an old South of France chanson, and everyone was singing it in Paris that
year.  Someone far down the deck, who had evidently read the original in Alphonse Daudet's
Lettres de Mon Moulin, took up the refrain:

  "Sur le pont
  D'Avignon
  On y dan-se, on y dan-se,
  Sur le pont
  D'Avignon
  On y dan-se, tout en rond."

Small use trying to stop her and speak serious things to her in that mad frolic.  April herself
was whirled into the pool of music and movement, and did not emerge until the band, at a late
hour, struck up the National Anthem.  By special dispensation of the Captain, dancing had been
prolonged because it was the last ball of the voyage.  The next two nights were to be respectively
devoted to a bridge-drive and a grand farewell concert.  However, only a score or so of the
most ardent dancers were left on deck when the final note of music sounded and the lights went
out with a click.  Figures became wraith-like in the moonlight, and April gave a sigh as her
partner's arm fell from her waist and they drew up by the ship's rail, where Vereker Sarle
stood watching them and smoking.

"And that's the end of the story," said she, laughing a little ruefully.  Her partner went
away to get her a cold drink, and she half expected Sarle to reproach her because it had been
his dance and she had purposely avoided dancing with him.  But he only said: "Africa is the
beginning of many stories."

She shivered a little, though the night was warm.

"I am beginning to be afraid of her--this Africa of yours!"

"No need for you to be afraid anywhere," he smiled.  "There will always be those who will stand
between you and fear."

"How little you know!" she said abruptly.  "I haven't a friend in the world."

There was a short silence, and they looked straight at each other, the slim, tall girl in her
diaphanous tulles, the powerful, innocent-eyed man.

"You must be joking," he began.  Then he saw the trouble in her eyes and her quivering mouth.

"But even in jest, never say that, while I am in the world," he added gently.  She was so grateful
for the chivalrous words that she dared not speak for fear the tears should rush out of her
eyes.  Impulsively she put out her hand, and his brown, firm one closed on it, and held it
very close.  Then he carried it to his lips.  She heard him say one word, very softly: "Diana."

At that she tore her hand from his and sped away swiftly into the darkness.  Once in her cabin
she locked the door, turned out the lights, and flung herself on to the bed.  For a long time
she lay there, a rumpled heap of tulle and misery, weeping because life was a cruel brute who
kept her gifts for the rich and wellborn or the old and indifferent, mockingly withholding
from those who were young and eager and could better appreciate them.

"What is the use of youth and good looks when one is poor and lonely?" she sobbed.  "They only
mock one!  It is like having a Paris hat put on your head while your feet are bare and bleeding
and your stomach is empty."

She wished she had never begun this miserable game of Diana Vernilands, never tasted the power
of rank and place, the joy of jewels and pretty clothes.  She wished she had never left England,
never seen Vereker Sarle, and, above all, she wished she were dead.

It was about two in the morning before she had finished wishing and sobbing.  Youth began to
assert itself then, and she thought of what a sight would be in the morning, with tangled hair
and swollen eyes. Languidly at last she rose.  The tulle dress was ruined, but little she recked.
Rather she felt a fierce satisfaction in the thought that it was done for, and Diana could
never wear it.

That wretched Diana! . . .

But when her flushed face was bathed and her hair brushed out she thought more kindly of Diana,
remembering that she, too, was in trouble.  Well, tomorrow there would have to be a great clean-up
of all these miserable pretences and deceits; tonight, at least, she would try and sleep. 
Her hand was on the switch to turn out the lights when there came a knocking at the door. 
It was such a strange, peremptory knocking--such a careless outraging of the small hours, that
for a moment she stood rooted with astonishment and apprehension, staring at herself in the
mirror that composed the back of the door.

"Who is it?" she stammered at last.

"The Captain," said a stern voice, and in the glass she saw her cheeks and lips become pale.
What on earth could be wrong?  Was the ship on fire, or wrecked?  Had their last hour come?

"I am sorry to bother you, but will you please open the door for a moment?"

By a great effort she composed herself and did as she was bid.  A little group of people with
strained faces and staring eyes presented themselves behind the Captain; she recognized several
men, the stewardesses, and Mrs. Stanislaw; while in the shadows beyond them was whispering
and much shuffling.  The whole ship seemed to be afoot. Captain Carey gave one swift look round
the cabin, then his eyes rested on her startled face, and he patted her arm gently and reassuringly.

"Don't be alarmed, my dear Lady Diana," he said, in his tender, Irish voice, from which all
sternness had vanished.  "It is only that we are looking for Miss Poole, and we thought that
possibly she might be in here with you."

"Miss Poole!"

The girl's face stiffened and blanched.  She put out a hand to support herself against the
dressing-table.  The Captain signed to a stewardess, and the little crowd moved away.  There
was loud knocking on another door.

"Why are they searching? . . ."

The stewardess patted her arm, even as the Captain had done, but being a simple woman, she
spoke simply, and without waste of words.

"There is a fear that she is not on the ship."

"Not on the ship!" whispered April.  "But where else could she be? What other place? . . ."

Then she understood.  There was no other place. . . .  Her knees trembled, and the stewardess
supported her to the sofa.  She sat down with chattering teeth, smitten by a great and bitter
cold.  Diana--the sea . . . warm, merry, gay Diana in the cold sea!

"I don't believe it.  It can't be true!"

"Mrs. Stanislaw had reason to think that she intended to commit suicide tonight . . . and when
she did not come to bed by two o'clock, she thought it her duty to inform the Captain, who
is, of course, bound to search the ship."

"It can't be true. . . . I don't believe it," repeated April mechanically; but all the time
her heart was in terror, remembering Diana's pale looks and the news she had heard tonight
of Bellew's marriage.  Had he told Diana, then . . . and was this the result?  All at once
it became impossible to sit still any longer.  She must know the truth.  She jumped up, searched
feverishly for a cloak to put on, and pulling the stewardess with her, hurried on deck.  But
after a few steps they came to a standstill, for the crowd following the Captain had suddenly
and curiously broken up and separated before the door of one of the deck cabins.  Men and women
who a moment before had been clustering and whispering agitatedly together were now hurrying
past, each apparently intent on reaching their own cabins in the quickest time possible.  For
one horrible moment April thought it was some tragic discovery that was scattering them, but
a moment later she realized that tragedy had gone from the air.  The deck was flooded with
electric light, and people's faces could plainly be seen.  Many expressions were written there,
but none of pity or sorrow.  The men, for the most part, looked embarrassed; the women's expressions
varied from frozen hauteur to scornful rage.  They behaved like people who had been bitterly
wronged by some lying tale.  The one predominating emotion shared by all seemed to be an intense
desire to escape from the scene.  In less than two minutes not a soul was left on the deck
save the dazed and astounded April.  She remained, wondering what on earth it was all about;
why without visible reason the search had come to such a sudden end, and what could be the
meaning of the phrase Mrs. Stanislaw had flung at her as she passed.

"The April fool has surpassed herself!"

A sickening apprehension crept over the girl.  That Diana was not overboard seemed certain;
but what new folly had she committed?  As if in answer to the gloomy query, the lights were
once more switched out, and a strange vapoury greyness took possession of the ship.  It was
that still small hour when the yellowing East adds pallor to the night without dispersing its
darkness.

Then two things happened.  The door of that cabin before which the crowd had so mysteriously
disintegrated opened very softly, and through the aperture stole forth a woman's figure. .
. .  For a swift moment the light from within rested on yellow hair and gleaming blue satin;
then the door closed and the figure became part of the stealing dimness which was neither night
nor morning.  But April, who stood in her path, had seen and recognized.

"Diana!" she cried.

The other girl stood stock still.  Her face showed ghostly in the greyness.  She peered at
April, clutching at her arm and whispering:

"For God's sake take me to your cabin!"

They crept down the deck like a pair of thieves, hardly breathing till they were behind the
locked door.  Without looking at her, April saw that there was trouble to meet.  She remembered
the faces of the other women, and the instinct to protect a fellow-creature against the mob
rose in her.

"Tell me what it is.  I'll help you fight it out."

But Diana had flung herself down with a defiant air on the sofa.

"Don't you know?  Weren't you one of the hounds on my track?" she demanded, in a high-pitched
whisper.  April looked at her steadily.

"The whole thing is an absolute mystery to me.  I know nothing except that first you were missing,
and then apparently they found you----"

"Yes; in Geoffrey Bellew's cabin!"

The April fool had, indeed, surpassed herself!  April blenched, but she took the blow standing.
After all, she had been as great a fool as the girl sitting there, for she, too, had handed
over her good name into the careless hands of another; had sold her reputation for a song--a
song that had lasted seventeen days, but seemed now in the act of becoming a dirge.

"Do you mind telling me what happened, so that I know exactly where we stand and what there
is to be done."

Diana laughed.

"There is nothing to be done."

April forgave her the laugh, because it was not composed of merriment nor any elements of joyousness.

"I went to Geoffrey's cabin because we had things to talk over, and it seemed the only place
where we could get away from prying eyes. Somehow I stayed on and on, not realizing it was
so late . . . and then, and then . . ."  She began to stammer; defiance left her . . . "then,
that awful knocking . . . those faces staring in! . . . all those brutes of women!"  She covered
her eyes with her hands and broke down utterly.  "My God!  I am done for!"

April thought so, too.  It seemed to her they were both done for, but there was not much help
in saying so.  Diana's confession horrified her, and she saw that her own future at the Cape
was knocked as flat as a house of cards that is demolished by the wayward hand of a child.
Yet at that moment her principal feeling was one of compassion for the girl on the sofa, who
alternately laughed and covered her eyes, and now with a pitiful attempt at bravado was attempting
to light a cigarette, with hands that shook like aspen leaves.

"I suppose it was that cat Stanislaw who started the search for me?"

"It appears that she got into a panic when you did not return to your cabin, and went and told
the Captain she feared you were overboard."

"The she-fiend!  Much she cared if I was at the bottom of the sea!  She had pried out where
I was, and that was her subtle way of advertising it to the whole ship."

"I believe you are right," said April slowly, "though it is hard to understand how any one
could do a thing so studiedly cruel."

"Cruel!  She is a fiend, I tell you," cried Diana.  "One of those women who have nothing left
in their natures but hatred for those who are still young and pretty.  I realized long ago
that she would ruin my reputation if she could, but I did not give her credit for so much cleverness."

"Well, at any rate, she is not so clever as she thinks," said April drily.  "For she hasn't
ruined your reputation, after all; only mine."

Diana started; terror came into her eyes.

"My God, April!  You don't mean to give me away?"

April knew very well what she meant to do.  She had tasted of "the triumph and the roses and
the wine," and the bill had been presented. Even though it left her bankrupt and disgraced,
she was going to honour that bill; but she could not resist finding out what point of view
was held by Diana as to similar obligations.

"You think, then, it is my name that should be left with the smirch on it?" she asked dispassionately.

Diana grew crimson and then very pale.

"The scandal . . ." she stammered; "my people . . . you don't know what it would mean to have
such a story attached to me."

"It would be better to have it attached to me, of course," April agreed, with an irony that
was entirely wasted on Diana.

"You see that, don't you?" she said eagerly.  "After all, nobody knows your name, and it will
soon be forgotten.  But mine----"

April could only smile.  She saw that pity was entirely wasted here. Diana was so eminently
able to look after herself when it came to the matter of self-preservation.

"And it will only be for another couple of days.  After that we shall never see Mrs. Stanislaw
or any of this rotten crew of women again."

"You are an optimist," was April's only comment.  "After all, it is I who will have to bear
the brunt of their insolence tomorrow, whatever name I go under," complained Diana.

"I'm afraid I cannot give you my face as well as my name to help you bear it," said April drily.
Unexpectedly the retort pierced, for Diana suddenly burst into tears.

"I know you think me a beast.  But I really am thinking more of my father than of myself. 
He is terribly proud.  It would break his heart to hear this story of me being found in a man's
cabin.  Oh!  How could I have done such an awful thing!  You think I don't care, but I can
tell you I could simply die of shame."

April was softened once more.

"Don't cry, Diana, and don't worry any further.  Of course, your name shall never come out.
That is quite settled.  Come, now, and let me help you into bed.  You had far better stay here
than face that tigress Stanislaw in her den."

Nevertheless, when she had safely tucked the still weeping and collapsed Diana into her berth,
she thought it advisable to make an excursion herself to the den of the tigress, ostensibly
to fetch Diana's night-things; in reality to let her know where Diana was spending the night,
and that the girl had one woman friend at least to stand by her.  Even as she expected, Mrs.
Stanislaw was awake and lying in wait, ready to spring.  It must have been a disagreeable surprise
to see April instead of the victim.  The former's manner was all suavity.

"I am sorry to disturb you, but I have come for Miss Poole's things. She is not at all well,
and I have persuaded her to spend the night with me."  Tranquilly she began to collect night-wear,
slippers, hair and tooth brushes.  The tigress, being thoroughly taken back, could do nothing
for the moment but breathe heavily and glare.  April, with the wisdom of the serpent, made
haste to escape before the feline creature regained the use of claw and fang.

But there were worse things to face in the morning.  Even though Diana postponed the evil hour
by pretending she was ill and having her breakfast in bed, she could not stay in the cabin
for ever.  Once the first days of seasickness are over there is a rule against people stopping
in their berths all day except under doctor's orders, and the stewardesses are very rigid in
enforcing this.  Besides, the Captain and first officer inspect cabins between ten and eleven
A.M., and Diana had no particular yearning to see them again just then.

April went down to breakfast as usual, outwardly composed, but with an eye secretly alert to
spy out the land.  It did not take her long to discover that all the women were in arms, with
their stabbing knives ready for action.  Mrs. Stanislaw had evidently not been idle, and the
name of "Lady Diana" was already bracketed with that of the April Fool. To send her entirely
to Coventry was rather too drastic treatment for an earl's daughter, but many a cold glance
came her way.

"Birds of a feather nest together," was one of the tart observations that fell upon her ears
as she passed a group of women who only yesterday were fawning upon her.  Plainly it was considered
a fresh outrage upon womanhood that she should have given the protection of her name and cabin
to the heroine of last night's scandal.

She did not mind very much.  With a clear conscience on this count at least, she was able to
meet their displeasure imperturbably.  But she could not help feeling sorry for the real Diana.

That unfortunate creature, on venturing forth to her own cabin, was met by the sight of Mrs.
Stanislaw dragging all her possessions into the corridor.  It appeared that even for the few
remaining days at sea the tigress could not lie down with the black sheep!  A sweet and sympathetic
soul, who also lived down the same alley and had the same horror of contaminating influence,
had therefore offered to take her in.  The picturesque incident was being witnessed and silently
approved by women in the neighbouring cabins, who, curiously enough, all happened to be busy
packing with their doors open, so as not to miss anything.

It must be remembered that most of these people had been persistently flouted, even insulted,
by Diana during the voyage.  Some of them, matrons with daughters of their own, were really
shocked by the "bad example" her behaviour had established.  So it was perhaps not to be wondered
at that a sort of combined sniff of holiness and self-righteousness went up to Heaven when
the culprit came barging down the passage, nose in air, and a defiant flush upon her cheek.
Stumbling over the trunks and piles of clothes which littered the place, she managed to gain
her room, and close the door behind her with a resounding bang to show how little she cared
about any of them.  But it was immediately reopened by Mrs. Stanislaw, come to fetch more of
her things, and not averse to talking as long as possible over the business.  By continually
going backwards and forwards for small armfuls of articles, and always leaving the door open,
she managed to deprive Diana of all privacy.  The latter bore with it for as long as her patience
lasted, which was about five minutes.  Then she flung out of the room, hoping to find refuge
elsewhere.  But wherever she went it was the same.  In the writing-room everyone bent suddenly
over their blotting-pads, and the balmy morning air took on an arctic chill. Music and conversation
faded away when she sauntered into the music saloon.  On deck even the sailors looked at her
curiously.  The story of her indiscretion had penetrated to every corner of the vessel.  The
miserable girl fetched a book from the library and tried to hide herself behind it, seated
in her deck-chair.  She soon had that side of the ship to herself.

Later, it was discovered that a lady with whom she was engaged to play off a final in deck
quoits had "scratched."  The same thing happened with regard to the bridge-drive.  The girl
who was cast as her opponent in the opening round publicly withdrew her name from the competition.
There it was, up on the games notice-board--a girl's name with a black pencil mark drawn through
it.  All who ran might read, and a good many did run to read.  Clearly the April Fool had become
the object of the most unanimous taboo ever set in motion on a ship.  Her name was mud. Even
the men did not rally to her aid, though she had been popular enough with them before.  There
are few men who will not crumple up before a phalanx of women with daggers in their hands and
feathers in their hair; even as the big-game hunter thinks it no shame to flee before a horde
of singing ants!  The only two who behaved with natural decency were Bellew and Sarle.  The
latter appeared utterly unconscious of anything unusual when he came and sat down by the two
girls.  There might have been a little more deference in his manner to Diana; that was all.
As for Bellew, he had not been trained in the diplomatic service for nothing.  He possessed
to a marked degree the consummate sang-froid that is a natural attribute of aides-de-camp.
Nothing could have been more cool than his manner when he joined the group and suggested a
game of quoits.  The whole world of the ship had its ears cocked to listen to these two, and
was watching them acutely--with eyes that gazed at the horizon.  If only Diana could have comported
herself in a rational manner the situation might at least have been decently salvaged, if not
carried with triumph.  But she had lost her nerve. Intrepid throughout the voyage in committing
every possible folly, now, when a little real courage was needed, she crumpled.  The fierce
white light of public disapproval withered her.  It was pitiful to see the way she went to
pieces--to hear her hysterical laughter and foolish remarks.

"For goodness' sake have the courage of your sins!  Show some blood!" was the rebuke April
longed to administer together with a sound shaking.  But anger was futile, and rebuke out of
the question.  The only wise thing was to retreat in as good order as possible to the cabin
of which Diana now enjoyed sole possession, and there reconsider the position.

"I can't bear it," she whimpered desperately.  "I can't stand another two days of it.  I tell
you I shall go mad."

"Nonsense!" April responded, with a cheerfulness that found no echo in her heart.  "You must
take a pull on yourself, Diana.  As you said last night, you owe these women nothing, and will
probably never see them again."

But Diana's lay had changed tune.

"Oh!  Won't I? . . . I feel they will haunt me all my days.

A man said to me yesterday that what is done on the voyage to the Cape is known at Cairo within
a week if it is sufficiently scandalous."  She wept.

"A blue look-out for me!" thought her listener, dismally imagining the name of April Poole
flashing from one end of the great continent to another.  Not only at the Cape would she be
debarred from earning her living!  This impression was confirmed by some of the remarks women
made to her later in the day.  They were all quite willing to be friendly as long as she was
not in the company of the black sheep.

"She might just as well take ship back to England," one said.  "No one will employ her as a
governess after this.  The story will be all over Cape Town within an hour of our arrival."

"You can't live these things down in Africa," said another.  "Of course, she might get a job
up-country, where people are not particular and only want a kind of servant to look after their
children."

It was no use April protesting against the cruelty of condemning a girl for ever because of
one indiscretion.  Her listeners only looked at her suspiciously.  One old Englishwoman, who
had lived many years in South Africa, put the case more cynically than kindly:

"Girls who earn their living are not allowed the luxury of indiscretion.  If it had been you,
now----"

"Do you mean that I should have been forgiven by reason of my position?"

"My dear," was the dry reply, "it is the same old snobbish world wherever you go.  What constitutes
a crime in one strata of society is only eccentricity in another."

April communicated the gist of this worldly wisdom to Diana, half hoping that it might give
the latter courage to disclose herself and perhaps clear them both of any worse indictment
than upon the count of foolishness.  But it was a futile hope, and nothing came of it except
more tears and another wild appeal not to be "given away."  All sense of justice had left Diana,
or been swamped by the newly-born fear for her family's honour.

Thus the miserable day wore to its close.  A steward, no doubt heavily subsidized, spent most
of the afternoon carrying notes backwards and forwards between Diana and Bellew.  April stayed
in her cabin as much as possible, and for the rest was careful to be always near other people,
so that Sarle would find no opportunity of giving expression to the things to be seen in his
eyes.  It was a precarious joy to read those sweet things, but she dared not let him utter
them.  For when the debacle came at Cape Town, he must have nothing to regret.  The moment
they were quit of the ship and its scandal she would be relieved of her promise to Diana and
able to tell him the truth.  If he had spoken no word of love to her before then he would be
free as air to go his way without speaking one, while she just slipped away and disappeared,
to be seen of him no more.  But if he chose not to go his ways----?  If when he heard all he
still wished to stay?  Ah! what a sweet, perilous thought was that!  She dared not dwell on
it, and yet if she banished it utterly from her mind all the thrill went out of life, and every
throb of the engine bringing them nearer land seemed a beat of her heart soon to be silenced
for ever.

Evening came at last--an evening of dinner parties and best frocks, with an early commencement
of the bridge-drive afterwards.  Sarle, several days before, had arranged to have a special
small table for four with a special dinner, asking April to be his hostess and choose the other
two guests.  She, with an instinct that they would be left out in the cold by everyone else,
had chosen Diana and Bellew.  Now, at the last moment, Diana shirked the ordeal, and from behind
her locked door announced in muffled tones that she had a headache and was going to bed.  So
April sent a message to Sarle, giving him the chance of filling the gap if he so wished.  When
she went down she found him waiting for her with Bellew and Dick Nichols, the old poker-playing,
battle-scarred warrior of the smoke-room, whose acquaintance she was delighted to make.  He
was a little bit shy at first at sitting down in his worn though spotless white-duck slacks
opposite the beautiful girl in black and silver, with straps of amethysts across her satiny
shoulders.  But she had that gift which is born rather than acquired of setting people at their
ease, and she wanted to get the liking of this man who was Sarle's friend.  So she beguiled
him by the blue of her eyes and the eager interest of her smile, and he opened up like a book
of strange stories and pictures under the hand of a child.  Listening to the talk, she was
transported to that strange region of bush and spaces that is far from being enchanted land
and yet casts an everlasting spell.  She heard lions roar and the shuffling steps of oxen plodding
through dust; felt the brazen glare of the sun against her eyes; saw the rain swishing down
on grass that grew taller than a man's head.

She remembered a verse of Percival Gibbon's about the veld:

  There's a balm for crippled spirits
    In the open view
  Running from your very footsteps
    Out into the blue,
  Like a wagon track to heaven
    Straight 'twixt God and you.

Both Sarle and Nichols knew that track, she was sure.  They were oddly alike, these two veld
men, with their gentle ways, their brown muscular hands, and their eyes full of distance. 
A very different type to the sleek and handsome Bellew, who sat so composed under the many
blighting glances cast his way.

"They know about the guile of creatures, but he has made an art of beguiling human beings,"
thought April, and all the vexation of the day came surging over her, almost spoiling her dinner
and the pleasure of the evening.  Almost--not quite!  When you are "young and very sweet, with
the jasmine in your hair," and have only to raise your eyes to see desire of you sitting unashamed
in the eyes of the man you love, nothing can quite spoil your gladness of living.  All the
same, she stuck to the card-room the whole evening, and her resolution to give Sarle no chance
of saying anything he might regret.  He must have realized it after a time, when she had once
or twice eluded his little plots to get her on deck, but he gave no sign.  He was a hunter,
and could bide his time with patience and serenity.

It was not in her plan that when they parted it should be just where the shadows of a funnel
fell, nor that he should leave a swift kiss, in the palm of the hand she tendered him in bidding
good-night; yet both of these things came to pass.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

The stewardess who brought her an early cup of tea handed her a letter with the remark:

"It was under your door, m'lady.  And please would you like your big trunks from the hold brought
here, or will you pack in the baggage-room?"

"Oh, here, I think, stewardess.  It will be much more convenient."

"Of course it will," agreed the good woman.  "But, there! how the baggage men do grumble at
having to lug up big trunks like yours and Mr. Bellew's!"

"I am very sorry," said April "but I'm afraid I can't help it."  She had reflected swiftly
that as she and Diana had so many possessions to exchange before packing, it could only be
done in the privacy of he cabin.  She was very tired after a "white night" all too crowded
with the black butterflies of unhappy thought, and when she looked at the superscription on
the envelope and saw that it was in Diana's writing she sighed.  All the worries of the coming
day rose up before her like a menacing wall with broken glass on the top.

"Blow Diana!  I wish she were at the bottom of the sea," she said to herself, with the irritability
born of a bad night.

Leaning on her elbow, she sipped at the fragrant tea and reflected sorrowfully on what a happy
creature she would have been that morning if she had never met Diana Vernilands and entered
into the mad plan of exchanging identities!  What a clear and straight road would have lain
before her! . . . with the man whose kiss still burnt the palm of her hand waiting for her
at the end of it!  But instead--what?  She sighed again and tears came into her eyes as she
lay back on the pillows and tore open the envelope.  Then suddenly her body lying there so
soft and delicate in the luxurious berth stiffened with horror.  The tears froze in her eyes.
The letter at which she was staring was composed of two loose and separate pages, on the first
of which was scrawled a couple of brief sentences signed by a name:

"I cannot bear it any longer.  I am going to end my troubles in the sea.

"APRIL POOLE."

Mechanically her clutch relaxed on this terrible first page, and she turned to the second.
It was headed: "absolutely private and confidential, to be destroyed immediately after reading,"
and the words heavily underscored; then came wild phrases meant for April's private eyes alone.

"I am leaving you to face it all.  For God's sake forgive me and keep your promise.  Never
let any one on the ship or in Africa know the truth.  Spare my poor father the agony of having
his name dragged in the dust as well as losing his daughter.  Do not do anything except under
the counsel of the other person on this ship who knows the truth and who will advise you the
exact course to take.  But do not approach him in any way or speak of this to him until all
the misery and excitement of my suicide is over.  I have written to him, too, and he will advise
you at the right time, but to drag him into this would only ruin his career, and earn my curse
for ever.  I trust you utterly in all this.  Oh, April, do not betray my trust!  Do not fail
me!  I beg and implore you with my last breath to do as I ask.  Go on using my name, and money,
and everything belonging to me until the moment that he advises you to either write my father
the truth or return to England and break it to him personally.  If he hears it in any other
way it will kill him, and his blood be on your soul as well as mine.  I pray, I beseech, I
implore you, be faithful to your unhappy friend,

"DIANA."

It took a long time for April's stricken mind to absorb the meaning of it all.  Over and over
she read the blurred tear-blistered sentences, sometimes weeping, sometimes painfully muttering
them aloud to herself. When she had finished at last, her course was set, her mind made up.
She knew the letter by heart, and sitting up in bed, white as a ghost, she slowly destroyed
it into minutest atoms, putting them into a little purse that lay in the rack beside her. 
Then she rang the bell.  To the stewardess who came she said calmly, but with pallid lips:

"If Miss Poole is in her cabin, ask her to come to me."

Then she whipped out of bed, flung on a wrapper, and arranged her hair. When the woman returned,
she knew the answer before it was spoken.

"Miss Poole is not in her cabin.  Her bed has not been slept in."

"Ask the Captain to come here."

In a few moments it was all over.  The Captain had come and gone again, with the first page
of Diana's letter in his hand.  The procedure after that was much the same as it had been two
nights before, except that the Captain went alone on his search, and the result, with the evidence
he held in his hand, was a foregone conclusion from the first.  All inquiry terminated in the
same answer.  No one had set eyes on "Miss Poole" since the previous evening.  The last person
to speak with her was the stewardess, who, on finding she did not intend going to dinner, had
offered to bring her some, but had been refused.  The rest was conjecture--a riddle that only
the sea, lying as blue and flat and still as the sea in a gaudy oleograph, could answer.  The
story had flown round the ship like wildfire, and hardly a soul but felt as if he or she had
taken part in a murder.  Women reproached each other and themselves, and men went sombre-eyed
to the smoke-room and ordered drinks that left them still dry-mouthed.  The blue and golden
day with the perfumes of Africa spicing its breath took on a brazen and arid look.  It was
as if old Mother Africa had already reached out her brazen hand and dealt a blow, just to remind
everyone on the boat that she was there waiting for them, perhaps with a tragedy for each in
her Pandora box.  The Captain had not let it be known where and with whom Diana's last note
had been found.  With the remembrance of April's ashen face as she had handed it to him, he
wished to spare the girl as much as possible.

As for her, the one clear thought in her mind was that she must obey Diana's last behest and
keep silence.  It was not hard to do that, for she had no words.  Throughout the day, in a
kind of mental torpor, she helped the stewardess sort and pack all the costly clothes and possessions
which were really Diana's, putting them into the trunks already labelled for a hotel in Cape
Town; her own things were locked and sealed up in the abandoned cabin on the lower deck, and
she would probably never see them again.  She did not attempt to speak to Bellew, though she
knew that an interview with him awaited her, for there could be no mistake about his being
that other person referred to in Diana's letter.  Neither did she see Vereker Sarle.  He sent
a note during the afternoon, a very sweet and friendly note, hoping that she was not ill, and
begging her not to be too upset by the tragedy.  And between the lines she read as he meant
her to do.

"Why are you hiding from me?  Come on deck.  I want you."

She wanted him, too.  She longed for the comfort of his presence, but did not dare meet him.
A greater barrier than ever existed between them.  The dead girl stood there with her finger
on her lips.  The truth could not now be told to Sarle, until, at any rate, it was known to
that unhappy old man in England whose head must be bowed in sorrow to the grave.  After that,
who could tell?

Somehow she felt that all hope of personal happiness with Vereker Sarle was over.  It was unfit
that so clean-souled and upright a man should be involved in the tangle of lies and deceit
and tragedy that she and Diana had between them encompassed.  He would shrink from her when
he knew all, of that she felt certain, and it made her shrink in turn to think of it.  So she
sent only a little formal line in answer to his note, making no reference to the likelihood
of seeing him on deck or anywhere else.  It looked cold and cruel enough to her, that note,
like a little knife she was sending him; but it was a two-edged knife, with which she also
wounded herself.

The stewardess brought her tea and toast, and she stayed in her room all day.  Only in the
cool of the evening, when everyone else was dining, she crept out for a few moments, and leaned
upon the ship's rail, drinking in the air and staring at the moody line of land ahead that
meant fresh experiences and trouble on the morrow!  She was afraid to look at the sea!

No farewell concert took place that night.  People whispered together in little groups for
a while after dinner, but all the merriment of the last night at sea was lost in the sense
of tragedy that hung about the ship.  Almost everyone was oppressed by a feeling of guilty
responsibility for what had happened.  The inherent decency of human nature asserted itself,
and each one thought:

"Why did I not give the poor girl a helping hand instead of driving her to desperation?"  It
was remembered that "Lady Diana" had stood by her, and everyone yearned to absolve their souls
by explanation to the person who (to her great regret) bore that rank and title.  But she had
put a barricade of stewardesses between her and them, and was invisible to callers.  Some few
of the younger and more resilient passengers, in an effort to shake off what seemed to them
useless gloom, went and asked the Captain to allow the band to play on deck.  He consented,
stipulating only that there should be no dancing.  Of course, no one wanted to dance, but as
ships' bands specialize in dance music, the musicians struck at once into a tango, and it happened
to be the one Diana had made her own by singing her little French rhyme to it:

  "Tout le monde
  Au salon
  On y tan-gue, on y tan-gue."

It only needed that.  Every mind instantly conjured up the picture of a vivid figure in a frock
that gleamed blue as sulphurous flames.  A hysterical woman sprang up screaming shrilly, and
had to be taken away; a solitary sea gull, its plumage shining with a weird blueness in the
electric light, chose this moment to fly low along the deck, crying its wailing cry.  That
was enough.  Another woman began to scream; the music stopped, and there was almost a panic
to get away from a spot that seemed haunted.  In a little while the first-class deck was as
deserted as the deck of a derelict, and the ship was wrapped in silence.  The personality of
the April Fool seemed more imposing in death than it had been in life!

By morning the Clarendon Castle had reached her destined port, and lay snugly berthed in Cape
Town docks.  April, venturing out at the tip of dawn to get a first glimpse of Africa, found
that a great mountain wrapped in a mantle of mist stood in the way.  It seemed almost as if
by reaching out a hand she could touch the dark sides of it, so close it reared, and so bleak
it brooded above her.  Yet she knew this to be an illusion of the atmosphere, for between her
and the mountain's base lay the streets and little white houses and gardens of Cape Town. 
It might have been some southern town on the shores of the Mediterranean except for that mountain,
which made it unlike any other place in the world.  The "Table of the Mass," the Portuguese
named it, and when, as now, silver mists unrolled themselves upon the flat top and streamed
in veils down the gaunt sides, they said that the cloth was spread for the Sacred Feast.

April thought of all the great wanderers whose first sight of Africa must inevitably have been
the same as hers--this mysterious mountain standing like a grey witch across the path!  Drake
sighted it from afar in 1580; Diaz was obliged to turn back from it by his mutinying sailors;
Livingstone, Stanley, Cecil Rhodes, "Doctor Jim," all the great adventurers, and thousands
of lesser ones, had looked upon it, and gone past it, to their sorrow.  For if history be true,
none can ever come out from behind that brooding witch untouched by sorrow. They may grow great,
they may reap gold or laurels, or their heart's desire; but in the reaping and the gaining
their souls will know grey sorrow.  A rhyme of her childhood came unsolicited into April's mind:

  How many miles to Banbury?
  Three score and ten.
  Will I be there by candlelight?
  Yes, and back again:
  Only--mind the old witch by the way!

She shivered, but the sun burst like a sudden glorious warrior upon the world, dispersing fear,
and making her feel as though, after all, everything and everyone was young, and all life decked
out in spring array.  If only the burden of deceit had not been upon her, how blithe and strong
in hope could she have set foot in this new land.

As she turned to go back to her cabin she found Geoffrey Bellew by her side.  He appeared a
little haggard, and some of his habitual self-assurance was missing.  No doubt he had seen
Table Mountain on former visits to Africa, yet he looked at it rather than into the eyes of
the girl he addressed.

"Will you go to the Mount Nelson Hotel?" he said in a low tone.  "I can meet you there, and
we will talk matters over."

"When?" she said.  Spring went out of her.  "Where is the hotel?"

He reflected for a moment.

"Well, perhaps you had better give yourself into my charge.  I will see you through the Customs,
and drive you up afterwards, and make all arrangements--shall I?"

She consented.  It seemed as good a plan as any for avoiding bother, and had the recommendation
that it would keep off Vereker Sarle.  So, later, when crowds began to surge and heave upon
the ship, everyone mad with excitement at meeting their friends, and mountains of luggage barging
in every direction, she stayed close by the side of this man she disliked intensely, yet whose
smooth ability to deal with men and matters she could not but admire.  Obstacles fell down
like ninepins before him; stewards ran after him; officials waited upon him; his baggage, the
heaviest and most cumbersome on the ship, was the first to go down the gangway, and April's
with it.  A few hurried farewells, and she found herself seated beside him in an open landau,
driving behind a conveyance full of trunks towards the Customs House.  A dull pain burned within
her at the remembrance of Sarle's face.  He had looked from her to Bellew with those steady
eyes that saw so much and betrayed so little, merely remarking, as he took the hand she tendered
lightly in farewell:

"One doesn't say good-bye in Africa, Lady Diana, only 'So long'--meaning that we may meet again
tomorrow, perhaps even today."

He had not even looked after them as they left the ship.  Yet April, because she loved him,
was aware of his astonishment at this strange and sudden intimacy of hers with Bellew.  Still,
what was the use of caring?  There were worse hurts in store for him, if, indeed, they met
again as he predicted.  She bit on the bullet and ignored the pain at her heart.  Bellew did
not waste any small talk on her; that was one comfort.  He seemed to be more concerned about
his luggage than about her, shouting out to the coloured men to be careful and to remove nothing
from the van without his direction.  At the Customs House, in fact, all his stuff was left
assiduously alone.  April's was opened and gone through rapidly by the officials; but the production
of his papers and credentials as an attaché to the Governor of Zambeke, or some such outlandish
place, gave Bellew instant immunity, and no single article of his belongings was unlocked.
Within a few moments they were again en route for their hotel.

Their way took them by the main thoroughfare of the town, and April was astonished at the numbers
of people flocking on the pavements, filling trams and rickshaws, drinking tea on the overhanging
balconies and restaurants.  The air was sunny, yet with the fresh bite of the sea in it, and
everyone seemed gay and careless.  The whole of one side of the wide street was lined by Malays
and natives offering flowers for sale. In front of the Bank a sort of floral bazaar was established,
the bright head "dookies," silver bangles, and glowing dark eyes of the vendors making a brave
show above the massed glory of colour in their baskets.  Huge bunches of pink proteas, spiked
lilies of every hue, bales of heather and waxen white chinckerichees filled the air with heavy
perfume.  The sellers came pressing to the passing carriages, soliciting custom in the soft
clipped speech of the Cape native. Bellew, for all he was so distrait, had the graceful inspiration
to stop and take on a load of colour and perfume, and April for a moment lost count of her
troubles in sheer joy of the senses.

"But where do they come from?" she cried.  "I have never seen such flowers in the world."

"There are no flowers in the world like those from Table Mountain," he said.

"That old bleak beast?"  She gazed in astonishment at the grey mass still hovering above and
about them.  "She looks as though nothing would grow on her gaunt sides except sharp flints."

Bellew laughed.

"Those gaunt sides are covered with beauty, and hundreds of people make their living from them."

"Africa is wonderful," sighed April, and suddenly the weight of her burden returned.

"Africa's all right, if it weren't for the people in it," he retorted moodily.

The hotel proved to be a picturesque building perched on rising ground above lovely gardens.
Some of its countless windows looked over the town to the sea; but most of them seemed to be
peered into by the relentless granite eyes of the mountain.  April's first act was to draw
the blinds of her room.

"That mountain will sit upon my heart and crush me into my grave if I stay here long," she
thought, and felt despairing.  Bellew had engaged rooms for her, boldly inscribing the name
of "Lady Diana Vernilands" in the big ledger, while she stood by, acquiescing in, if not contributing
to the lie.  Afterwards he went away to superintend the unloading of his luggage.  It appeared
that his three immense trunks contained much valuable glass and china for the Governor's wife,
and he was taking no risks concerning their safety.

Although making only a short stay, and in spite of the glum looks of the porters, he had everything
carried carefully up to his room on the fourth floor.  Glum looks were wasted on the bland
Bellew, who lived by the motto "Je m'en fiche de tout le monde," and who on his own confession
would have liked Africa to himself.

No word concerning the tragedy had yet passed between him and April, but she knew that something
was impending, and that she would probably do as he told her, for he seemed in the strange
circumstances to occupy the position of sole executor to Diana's will.  On going down to lunch
she found that he had engaged a small table for them both, but was not there himself.  What
pleased her less was that as regards company she might just as well have been back on board
the Clarendon Castle. Almost every one of her fellow-passengers was scattered around the multiplicity
of small tables.  It would seem as if the "Mount Nelson" was the only hotel in the town, although
she remembered quite a number of others in the Directory.  Even Vereker Sarle was there.  Far
down the long room she saw him sitting with two other men: one of them, Dick Nichols, looking
very much at home; the other a distinguished, saturnine man with an English air to him, in
spite of being burnt as black as the ace of spades.  She was aware that Sarle saw her, and
had a trembling fear that he might join her.  It was almost a relief when Bellew came in towards
the end of the meal, for she knew he would prove an effective barrier.  He looked hot and weary,
and explained that he had been obliged to go back down town to attend to some business.

"I think you had better take up your quarters here for a time," he added.  She flinched at
the prospect.

"But why?  It is so public!  Everyone off the boat seems to be here, and I shall have to keep
on telling lies just because I know them.  It seems to me I can't open my mouth without telling
a lie, and," she finished desperately, "it makes me sick."

He looked at her coldly.  His fine brown eyes could be hard as flint.

"I thought it was a promise--some sort of a compact--to do what was best--for her?" he remarked.
A little cold wave of the sea seemed to creep over her soul, and she could see her hands trembling
as she dealt with the fruit on her plate.

"Very well," she acquiesced tonelessly, at last; "if you think it best. How long am I to stay?"

"Until next week's mail-boat sails," he said slowly.  "I have been down to see if I could get
you a berth on this week's, but she is full up."

"You want me to return to England?"  There was desperate resistance in her voice now.  She
had not realized until that moment how much she wished to stay.

"It is not what I want: it is for her," he insisted ruthlessly.  "You must go to her father
and explain everything.  Letters are no good."

She was silent, but her eyes were wretched.  She wanted to stay in Africa.

"After all, it is your share of the payment for folly," he pursued relentlessly.  That was
too much for her temper.

"And yours?" she flashed back.

His face did not change, but his voice became very gentle.

"Don't worry.  I too am paying."

She would have given much to recall her fierce retort then, for after all, it was true that
she was not the only one hit.  This man too was suffering under his mask.  He had loved Diana,
and that his love was the direct cause of the tragedy must make his wretchedness the more acute.
With an impulse of pity and understanding she put out her hand to him across the table, but
instead of taking it he passed her a little dish of salted almonds.  Mortified, she looked
up in time to see Sarle and his friends going by, and was left wondering how much they had
witnessed, and whether Bellew had meant to snub or spare her.  The whole thing was a miserable
mix-up, and it almost seemed to her as if Diana had as usual got the best of it, for at any
rate she was out of the deceit and discomfort.

She thought so still more when the women surrounded her in the lounge, and drew her in among
them to take coffee.  They were all as merry as magpies, and seemed to have clean forgotten
the tragedy of the ship except in so far as it lent a thrill to conversation.  Several who
were going on the next day to different parts of the country pressed her to visit them at their
homes.  Mrs. Stanislaw came up with her claws sheathed in silk and a strange woman in tow,
and murmuring: "I must introduce Mrs. Janis.  She is anxious to know all you can tell her of
poor Miss Poole," stood smiling with a feline delight in the encounter. April turned from her
bitter face to the other woman, an elaborately-dressed shrew with a domineering hook to her
nose, and had the thankful feeling of a mouse who has just missed by a hair's breadth the click
of the trap on its nose.

"I'm afraid I can give you no more information than is already available," she said distantly.

"It seems to be a most shameful affair," complained Mrs. Janis; "and the wretched girl apparently
has no relatives one can write to."

"None," stated April firmly and gratefully.  She could well imagine how this lady with a grievance
would treat the feelings of relations.

"Perhaps Captain Bellew might know of someone," purred Mrs. Stanislaw.

"You had better ask him."  It was April's turn to smile, though wryly enough.  "He will deal
with you without the gloves," she thought, and turned away from them.

The lounge was a pleasant place, with French windows leading into the garden; deep chairs and
palms were scattered everywhere, and it smelled fragrantly of coffee and cigars.  Groups of
men and women clustered about the small tables, smoking and talking.  One corner was fenced
off by a little counter, from behind which a distinguished-looking waiter dispensed cocktails
and liqueurs with the air of a duke bestowing decorations.  This was Léon, who knew the pet
drinks and secret sins of everyone in South Africa, but whose discreet eyes told nothing. 
The knowledge he possessed of men, women, and things would have made a fascinating volume,
but no one had been able to unseal his lips.  He hardly ever spoke, simply mixing the drinks
and indicating with his hand the tables to which they should be carried.  April was in the
presence of a personage without being aware of it.  Neither did she know until much later that
this pleasant lounge was one of the principal gossip centres of the country.  In its smoky
atmosphere many a fair reputation has withered away, many a great name been tarnished for ever.
As for the baby scandals that are born there, have legs and arms and wings stuck on to them
and are sent anteloping or flying all over the country, their name is legion!

Bellew had left her immediately after lunch.  He said that he had an appointment with an old
friend of his mother's, and should be leaving to stay with her for several days before continuing
his journey.  April had, in fact, from her seat in the lounge seen him come out of the lift
into the hall accompanied by a little bent old lady, and watched them drive away together in
a taxi.  Thereafter she breathed more freely, and a longing to be in the open air out of this
smoke-laden atmosphere moved her to extricate herself from the chattering crowd of women and
make her way to the veranda.  It was cool and fresh there under the stone porticoes, with veils
of green creepers hanging between her and the blazing sunshine and colour of the garden.  She
sat down, and, as is always the way with a woman in moments of silence and beauty, her thoughts
immediately clustered about the image of the man she loved. What was Vereker Sarle thinking
of her?  Would he go from the Cape to his home up north without trying to see her again?  While
she pondered these things he walked out through one of the tall French windows and came towards
her, followed by his dark, saturnine friend.  They approached like men sure of a welcome, Sarle
smiling in his disarmingly boyish fashion, the other man smiling too: but with a difference.
There was some quality of sardonic amusement and curiosity in his glance that arrested April's
instant attention.

"I warned you that it is hard to shake off your friends in this country," said Sarle gaily.
"May we come and sit with you for a little while?  Sir Ronald tells me that you and he are
quite old friends."

Her heart gave a leap.  Instantly she understood the sardonic amusement of the stranger's demeanour.
If any other man than Sarle had been there she would have thrown up the sponge.  But she could
not bear to have the truth stripped and exposed there before him.  It was too brutal.  If he
must know, he should know in a less cruel manner than that.  She faced the new-comer squarely,
her features frozen to an outward composure.

"This is a very pleasant surprise, Lady Di!" he said easily, while his eyes expressed the utmost
amusement.  "It must be nearly two years since we met?"

"Oh, surely much longer than that?" she answered, and her smile was almost as mocking as his.
They stood taking each other's measure whilst Sarle dragged forward some chairs.  A faint admiration
came into the man's face.  She was a fraud, and he knew that she knew that he knew it, but
he had also to acknowledge that there was fine metal in her even for an adventuress.  As a
duellist at least she seemed worthy of his steel.  Besides, in her gown of faint lilac and
her orchid-laden hat she was a very entrancing vision.  The duel might be picturesque as well
as piquant.

"I trust you left Lord Vernilands well?" he inquired politely.  She dug desperately in her
mind for a moment.  It seemed foolishly important to be truthful, even though this man knew
she was acting a lie.

"He is never very well in the winter," she answered, without any apparent interlude for thought.
Sir Ronald was even more pleased with her.

"That is so," he agreed.  "I remember when I left Bethwick that autumn he was just in for his
annual bout of bronchitis."

The two men sat down, and, with her permission, smoked.  Sarle had placed his chair where he
could look full at her, missing no shade of expression on her face.  His frank warm eyes enfolded
her in a gaze of trust and devotion that was as patent to the other man as to her. There was
no peace for her in that gaze; things were too desperate for that; but it nerved her resolution
to fence to the death with this polished gamester.  She had her back to the wall, and resolved
to die fighting rather than make an ignominious surrender before the man she loved.

Sarle looked from one to the other contentedly.  For once his far-seeing veld eyes played him
false.

"I am so glad you two are friends," he said.  Then, addressing April, "Odd that we shouldn't
have discovered it before, for, you know, Kenna is my best friend, as well as my ranching partner."

PART III

They sat talking for close on two hours, and at the end of that time April rose with a laugh
on her lips and many a light and airy reason why she could not stay.  It was too hot, she must
rest a little, she had unpacking to do.  Even after rising from her chair she lingered as if
regretful to go, but they could not persuade her to stay and have tea with them.  Presently
she sauntered off slowly, leaving a promise that she would dine with them that evening.  She
did not know why she promised.  As she walked away, sauntering, because her feet seemed as
lead-laden as her heart, she told herself that it would be better to go and dine with the sharks
in Table Bay than sit down again with Ronald Kenna.  In her room she lay exhausted and very
still for a long time, with the feeling that she had escaped from a red-hot gridiron.  She
looked in her mirror on entering, expecting to see a vision of Medusa, hair hanging in streaks,
eyes distraught, and deep ruts in the cheeks; but her face was charming and composed, and a
fixed smile curved her mouth.  She shuddered at her own image.

"Lies deform and obscure the soul," she thought, "yet my face bears no mark of the lies I have
told this afternoon, nor the hell my spirit has passed through!"

Only when she removed her hat something strange arrested her attention, something that might
have been a feather or a flake of snow lying on her luminous black hair just where it grew
low in a widow's peak at the centre of her forehead.  She made to brush it lightly away, but
it stayed, for it was not a feather at all, but a lock of her own hair that had turned white.
A little gift from Ronald Kenna!

He had played with her as a cat plays with a mouse before killing it. True, he had not killed
her, nor (which would have been the same thing) exposed her mercilessly before Vereker Sarle's
eyes.  But he had made her pay for his clemency.  Probably the cleverness with which she slipped
out of the corners into which she was hedged, her skill in darting from under his menacing
paw, roused his admiration as well as his sporting instinct.  It must have been a great game
for him, but hers were the breathless emotions of the helpless mouse whose heart goes pit-a-pat
in the fear of being gobbled up the next moment.

It was all very subtle.  Sarle never suspected what was going on, so cool and sweet she looked
under her shady hat, so unfailing was her composure.  He was accustomed to the dry and biting
flavour of Kenna's speech, and paid no great heed to it.  He believed himself listening to
the witty reminiscences of two people with many friends and interests in common, and nothing
in the girl's manner as she lied and fenced and swiftly covered up mistakes with jests and
laughter betrayed the agony of baiting she was enduring.  Kenna was a friend he would have
trusted with everything he had in the world; but he was aware of a twist in that friend's nature
which made him look at women with sardonic eyes. It had not always been so.  Some woman had
given that cruel twist to a loyal and trusting nature; some loved hand had dealt the wound
that festered in Ronald Kenna's heart; and Sarle, because he guessed this, forgave his friend
much.  But he would never have forgiven had he known what was passing there under his very
eyes.  The woman he loved was on the rack, and he never guessed it because she smiled instead
of crying out.

And it was all to suffer again that evening.  April knew that, as she dressed herself carefully
for dinner.  There was no mistaking Kenna's pressing request that they should be allowed to
come to her table. Sarle had not had time to ask for himself alone.  Kenna had forestalled
him, and there was double craft in the action: he meant to keep his eye, or rather his claw,
on her, while preventing her from being alone with Sarle.  If she was in the fray to protect
Sarle from the pain of finding her out, he was in it to protect Sarle from her.  The situation
might have been funny if it had not been grim.  She could have laughed at it but for her fear
of Kenna, but for an old man's pain and misery, but that the whole miserable structure of deceit
rested on a girl's drowned body.

She put on a black gown.  It seemed only fitting to absent herself awhile from the felicity
of colour.  Besides, all her joy in clothes had gone.  How gladly would she now have donned
her own shabby garments, if with them could have returned the old peace of mind!  But even
the plain little demi-toilette of black chiffon was peerlessly cut, and her whiteness glowed
like a pearl through its filmy darkness. There was no way of dressing her hair that would hide
the white feather on her forehead, and after trying once or twice she left it.  It looked very
remarkable, that touch of age above her young, flower-like face. She could not altogether hate
it, for it was a scar won bravely enough, and in desperate battle.  Africa had not taken long
to put its mark on her!

The men were waiting for her in the lounge; Sarle looking radiantly happy because he was sure
of the society of the two people he cared for most in the world; Kenna with a fresh device
to try her composure.

"I want to see if you can remember the ingredients of that cocktail I introduced to you at
the 'Carlton' on a certain memorable evening when we escaped from Aunt Grizel," he said gaily.
She looked at him reflectively.  "As I've just been telling Sarle, you learned the recipe by
heart, and swore that from henceforth you would use no other."

"Ah, yes," she drawled slowly.  "But you take no account of time and my 'Winter-garment of
Repentance.'  I am a very different girl to the one you knew two years ago."

"I realize that, of course."  He grinned with delight at her point.  It seemed to him possible
that the evening might be even more entertaining than the afternoon.

"This girl never drinks cocktails," she finished quaintly, and he liked her more and more.

Many glances followed them as they passed down the long room, full of rose-shaded candles and
the heavy scent of flowers.  Pretty women are not scarce in Cape Town, especially at the season
when all Johannesburg crowds to the sea, but there was a haunting, almost tragic loveliness
about April that night that set her apart from the other women, and drew every eye.  Sarle
felt his pulses thrill with the pride that stirs every man when the seal of public admiration
is set upon the woman he loves.  As he looked at her across the table he suddenly recalled
some little verses he had found scrawled in Kenna's writing on an old book once when they were
away together on the veld:

  My love she is a lady fair,
    A lady fair and fine;
  She is to eat the rarest meat
    And drink the reddest wine.

  Her jewelled foot shall tread the ground
    Like a feather on the air;
  Oh! and brighter than the sunset
    The frocks my love shall wear!

  If she be loyal men shall know
    What beauty gilds my pride;
  If she be false the more glad I,
    For the world is always wide.

Poor Kenna!  She had been false: that was why he had sought the wide world of the veld and
renounced women.  Sarle, certain of the innate truth and loyalty of the girl opposite him as
of her pearl-like outer beauty, could pity his friend's fate from the bottom of his soul. 
But being a man, he did not linger too long with pity; hope is always a pleasanter companion,
and hope was burning in him like a blue flame: the hope that within an hour or two he would
hold this radiant girl in his arms and touch her lips.  He thought of the garden outside, full
of shadows and scented starlight, and looking at the curve of her lips, his eyes darkened,
and strange bells rang in his ears.  She had eluded him for many nights, although she knew
he loved her.  He had kissed her fingers and the palm of her hand, but tonight out in the starlit
garden he meant to kiss her lips.  The resolve was iron in him.  He hardly heard what the other
two were saying.  He was living in a world of his own.  April, weary of Kenna's cruel heckling,
turned to him for a moment's relief, and what she saw in his eyes was wine and oil for her
weariness, but it made her afraid, not only because of the perilous longing in her to give
him all he asked, but because Kenna sat alert as a lynx for even a smile she might cast that
way.  It was very certain that no opportunity would be given them for being a moment together;
and divining something of Sarle's resolute temper, she could not help miserably wondering what
would happen when it came to a tussle of will between the two men.

However, even the careful plans of first-class lynxes go awry sometimes.  A waiter came to
the table to say that Kenna was wanted on the telephone.

"Tell them I'm engaged," was the curt answer.

"It's his Honour Judge Byng, sir," said the waiter in an awed manner, "and I have already told
him you were at dinner.  He says it is most important."

Kenna glared at the man, then at his companions.  The latter appeared placidly indifferent.
April sipped her wine, and her eyes roamed round the room whilst she exchanged idle talk with
Sarle.  But the moment Kenna's back was turned indifference fell from them; they looked at
each other eagerly like two school-children in a hurry to take advantage of the teacher's absence.

"Darn him!" muttered Sarle.  "I wish Byng would keep him all night."

"He will be back directly," she said breathlessly.  Sarle glanced at the plates.  They were
only at the fish.

"He's got to finish his dinner, I suppose," he said grudgingly.  "But can't we escape afterwards?
I want to show you the garden."

"He's sure to stay with us," she answered tragically.

"Oh--but to Halifax with him!" began Sarle.

"I know, but we mustn't offend him," she implored hastily.  "He . . . he's such a good fellow."

"Of course I realize he is an old friend of yours, and likes to be with you, and all that,"
Sarle conceded.  "But so do I.  I want to show you the garden . . . by myself."  He looked
pleadingly and intently into her eyes until her lids fell and a soft flush suffused her cheeks.
His glance drank in every detail of her fresh, sweet beauty.

"What's that funny little patch of white on your hair?" he asked suddenly.  "I have been puzzling
about it all the evening.  Is it a new fashion?"  She shook her head.

"He's coming back."  From where she sat she could see Kenna the moment he entered the room.

"Promise you will come to the garden," he urged.

"Yes," she said softly.

"No matter how long it takes to get rid of him?"

"Yes."

"Even if we have to pretend to say good-night? . . .  I shall be waiting for you . . . you'll
come?"  She nodded; there was no time for more.  Kenna was upon them, very cross at having
his dinner interrupted, and with an eye cocked searchingly upon April.  But neither she nor
Sarle gave any sign of what had passed.

Later, when they were round their coffee in the lounge, the hall-porter brought her some letters
on a salver.  She saw Kenna looking at her satirically as she examined the superscriptions.
All were addressed to Lady Diana Vernilands, and the problem of what she was to do about letters
was one not yet considered.

"Don't let me keep you from your interesting correspondence," he remarked, and April started,
to find that they were alone.  Sarle had gone across to Leon to get some cigars.

"Oh, there's nothing that can't wait," she said hastily, and pushed them into her hand-bag.

"I agree"--he assumed a bright, conversational air--"that some things are even more interesting
for being waited for; the explanation of your conduct, for instance!"

She looked at him steadily, though her heart was beating rapidly, for this moment had come
upon her with sudden unexpectedness.

"You appear to suffer from curiosity?"

"Don't call it suffering."  His tone was suave.  "I am enjoying myself immensely."

"I shall try not to do anything to interfere with your amusement," she remarked, after a pause.

"That will be kind.  The situation piques me.  I should like to watch it to a finish without
contributing to the dénouement; unless"--he looked at her significantly--"I am obliged to."

"I cannot believe anything or any one could oblige you to be disagreeable, Sir Ronald," she
jeered softly.  He meditated with an air of gravity.

"There are one or two things, though; friendship, for instance--I would do quite disagreeable
things for the sake of a friend."  She was silent.

"I might even vex a woman I admire as much as I do you, to save a friend from disaster."

Thus they sparred, the attention of each fixed on Sarle, so gay and debonair, buying cigars
within a stone's throw of them.  Having finished with Leon, he attempted to rejoin them, but
the lounge was crowded, and at every few steps some old friend entangled him.

"There is nothing much to admire about me."  In spite of herself a note of desolation crept
into her voice.  Kenna looked at her in surprise. This was a new side to the adventuress!

"Au contraire.  Apart from the inestimable gifts of youth and beauty the gods have bestowed,
you possess a quality that would draw admiration from the most unwilling--courage."

She bowed mockingly.  Sarle was escaping from his many friends at last and returning.  Kenna
rapped out what he had to say sharply, though his voice was low.

"He is a good fellow, and I do not care to give him pain--unless you force me to."

He searched her face keenly, but found no trace there of anything except a courteous interest
in his conversation.  She did not mean him to guess how much Vereker Sarle's happiness meant
to her.

"Anything else?" she dared him.

"Well, of course I should like to know where the real Lady Diana is," he said carelessly. 
That gave her a bad moment.  Mercifully, the waiter created a diversion by knocking a coffee-cup
over as he removed the tray, and Sarle, returning, had some news for Kenna of a mutual friend's
success in some political campaign.  This gave her a short space in which to recover.  But
she was badly shaken, and wondered desperately how she was going to get through the rest of
the evening if Kenna clung.  They sat talking in a desultory fashion, each restlessly watching
the others.  There was a clatter of conversation about them, and in the adjoining drawing-room
a piano and violins had begun to play.  The air was warm and heavy.  For some reason April
could not fathom the French windows had been closed, and there was a swishing, seething sound
outside, as though the sea was rushing in tides through the garden.  She felt curiously unstrung.
It was not only the nervous effect of having these two men so intent upon her every word and
movement, but there was something extraordinarily disturbing in the atmospheric conditions
that made the palms of her hands ache and her scalp prickle as from a thousand tiny thorns.

"I don't think I can bear this place much longer," she said suddenly, even to herself unexpectedly.
"Wouldn't it be cooler out where we were sitting this afternoon?"

"I think so," said Sarle briskly.  "Besides I want to show you the garden."  He rose, but Kenna
rose too.

"My dear fellow," he expostulated gently, "don't you realize there is a south-easter blowing?
We can't subject Lady Di to the curse of the Cape tonight.  It always affects new-comers most
disagreeably.  In fact, I think she is suffering from it already."

"Is that what is making me prickle all over and feel as though I want to commit murder?" she
inquired, with rather a tremulous smile.  "What is this new African horror?"

"Only our Cape 'mistral.'"  Sarle looked at her anxiously.  "It's blowing a bit hard in the
trees outside, but----"

"I thought that was the sea.  If it's only the wind I don't mind."  She rose, half hesitating.
"I love wind."

"I think it would be very unwise of you to go," said Kenna quietly. Sarle thought him infernally
interfering, though he heard nothing in the words but friendly counsel.  To April the remark
contained a threat, and she gave way with as good a grace as she might, holding out her hand
to say good-night to them.

"Perhaps I had better postpone acquaintance with your curse as long as possible."  The words
were for Kenna, her smile for Sarle.

"I will see you to the lift," the latter said.  Kenna could hardly offer to come too, but as
it was only just across the lounge to the hall, and within range of his eye, perhaps he thought
it did not matter.  He could not know that Sarle, sauntering with a careless air beside her,
was saying very softly and only for her ear:

"It is quite early.  If instead of taking the lift again you came down the main staircase,
you would find a door almost opposite, leading into the garden.  I think you promised?"

His voice was very pleading.  She did not answer, nor even turn his way.  But once safely in
the lift, out of the range of Kenna's gimlet eyes, over the shoulders of the stunted brown
lift-boy she let her glance rest in his, and so told him that he would have his wish.

There must have been some witchery in that south-east wind.  She knew it was madness to go,
that she was only entangling herself more closely in a mesh which could not be unravelled for
many days.  Yet within half an hour she was out there in the darkness, with the wind tearing
at her hair and flickering her cloak about her like a silken sail.  When she closed the door
behind her and went forward it was like plunging into an unknown purple pool, full of dark
objects swaying and swimming beside her in the fleeting darkness.  Tendrils of flowering plants
caught at her with twining fingers.  A heavily scented waxen flower, pallid as the face of
a lost soul, stooped and kissed her from a balcony as she passed.  The young trees were like
slim girls bowing to each other with fantastic grace; the big trees stood together "terrible
as an army with banners," raging furiously in an uproar like the banging of a thousand breakers
upon a brazen beach.  The sky was full of wrack, with a snatch of moon flying across it, and
a scattering of lost stars.

She felt more alive and vital than ever in her life before.  The clamour of the storm seemed
to be in her veins as well as in her ears. She was glad with a wild, exultant happiness of
which she had never dreamed, when she found herself snatched by strong arms and held close,
close.  The maelstrom whirled about her, but she was clasped safe in a sheltered place.  Sarle
kissed her with long, silent kisses.  There was no need for words, their lips told the tale
to each other.  It seemed to her that her nature expanded into the vastness of the sea and
the wind and the stars, and became part with them. . . .  But all the while she was conscious
of being just a slight, trembling girl held close against a man's heart--the right man, and
the right heart!  She had come across the sea to find him, and Africa had given them to each
other.  She lost count of time and place and terror.  The burden of her trouble mercifully
left her.  She remembered only that she and Vereker Sarle loved each other and were here alone
together in this wind-wracked wilderness of perfumed darkness and mystery.  Her ears and mind
were closed to everything but his whispering words:

"My darling, my darling . . .  I have waited for you all my life . . . women have been nothing
to me because I knew you were somewhere in the world.  I have crossed the veld and the seas
a thousand times looking for you, and have found you at last!  I will never let you go."

He kissed her throat and her eyes.  More than ever her whiteness shone in the gloom with the
luminousness of a pearl.

"Your beauty makes me tremble," he whispered in her hair.  "Darling, say that you love me and
will give yourself to me for ever."

"I love you, Vereker. . . ."

"Call me Kerry."

"I love you, Kerry.  I give myself to you."

She rejoiced in her beauty, because it was a precious gift to him.

"You don't know what you mean to me, Diana--a star dropped out of heaven; the pure air of the
veld I love; white lilies growing on a mountain top.  Thank God you are all these things without
any darkness in you anywhere.  It is the crown of a man's life to love a woman like you."

"Let me go, Kerry," she said.  "It is late.  I must go."

He did not notice that her voice was broken with tears, for the wind swept her words up to
the trees and the boiling wrack of clouds beyond. But he knew that it was time for her to go.
That wild pool of love and wind and stars was too sweet and dangerous a place for lovers to
linger in.  He wrapped her cloak about her and sheltered her back to the door from which she
had emerged.

"Tomorrow morning . . .  I shall be waiting for you in the lounge.  We will settle then how
soon you will give yourself to me--it must be very soon, darling.  I am forty-four, and can't
wait a moment."

The light from the door fell on his face and showed it gay as a boy's. Her face was hidden,
or he must have, recognized the misery stamped upon it.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

In the morning light it seemed to her that the finger of snow on her hair had broadened a little.
It was five o'clock of an ice-green dawn, with the mountain like an ashen wraith outside, and
the wind still raging.  South-easters last for three days, Kenna had said, and she shuddered
to look at that unseen power whipping the leaves from the trees, beating down the beauty of
the garden, tearing the mists from the mountain's side, only to pile them higher upon the summit.
It took courage to go out in that wind, but it took greater courage to stay and meet Vereker
Sarle.  So she was dressed and hatted, with a small suit-case in her hand, and starting on
a journey to the Paarl.  She did not know what "the Paarl" was, nor where!  Her first introduction
to that strange name was at midnight, when she found it on one of the letters addressed to
Diana.  All the other letters were of no consequence, but the Paarl letter seemed to solve
for her the pressing and immediate problem of how to escape from the terror of exposure by
Kenna before the loved eyes of Sarle.  It was from the parson's daughter, that eccentric painter
who lived somewhere on the veld, and whose home was to have been Diana's destination.  "Clive
Connal" she signed herself, and said she hoped Diana would take the morning train, as it was
the coolest one to travel by, and arrive at the Paarl by 8.30, where a mule-cart would be waiting
to take her to Ho-la-lé-la.[1] So April meant to follow instructions and trust to luck to see
her through.  Whatever happened, it could not be more terrible than to read disgust and disillusion
in Vereker Sarle's eyes.

She stole down the stairs like a shadow, and found a sleepy clerk in the booking-office.  It
was simple to explain to him that she was going away for a few days, but wished her room kept
on, and everything left as it was.  She would send a wire to say at what date she would be
returning.  There was no difficulty about the bill, for, fortunately, Bellew had supplied her
with plenty of money, saying it was Diana's, and that she would have wished it to be used.
It was too early for a taxi to be got, even by telephoning, but the porter caught a stray rickshaw
that chanced to be passing, and April had her first experience of flying downhill behind a
muscular black man with feathers in his hair and bangles on his feet.  Before she reached the
station her veil and hair were in streamers, and her scalp was almost torn from her head, but
the serpent jaune which had gnawed her vitals all night had ceased from troubling, and joy
of living glowed in her once more.  She could not help it; there was something in the air and
the wind and the blaze of Africa that made for life, and thrust out despair.  It swept away
misery as the south-easter had swept the skies, leaving them blue and clear as a flawless turquoise.

She caught her train, and in fate's good hour reached the Paarl, which proved to be a town
of one long street, decked with stately oaks, and mellowed old Dutch homes.  The mule-cart
was waiting for her, and on the driver's seat a woman with the austere features and blue, pure,
visionary eyes of Galahad, the stainless knight.  But she was dressed in breeches and a slouch
hat, a cigarette hung from the corner of her mouth, and she beckoned April gladsomely with
an immense cowthong whip.

"Come on!  I was afraid you'd shirk the early train, but I see you're the stuff.  Hop in!"

April did her best, but hopping into a Cape cart that has both steps missing takes some practice.
The mules did most of the hopping; she scrambled, climbed, sprawled, and sprained herself all
over before she reached the vacant seat, already encumbered with many parcels.  With a blithe
crack of the whip and a string of strange words flung like a challenge at her mules, Miss Connal
got under way.

The farm was six miles off, but ere they had gone two April knew the painter as well as if
they had been twin sisters.  Clive Connal hadn't a secret or a shilling she would not share
with the whole world.  She used the vocabulary of a horse-dealer and the slang of a schoolboy,
but her mind was as fragrant as a field that the Lord hath blessed, and her heart was the heart
of a child.  It was shameful to deceive such a creature, and April's nature revolted from the
act.  Before they reached the farm she had confessed her identity--explaining how the change
had come about, and why it was important to go on with the deception.  Too much explanation
was not necessary with a person of Clive's wide understanding.  No vagaries of behaviour seemed
to shock or astonish her large human soul.  She merely, during the relation of Diana's tragedy,
muttered once or twice to herself:

"The poor thing!  Oh! the poor thing!" and looked at April as though she too were "a poor thing,"
instead of a fraud and an adventuress to be abjured and cast out.  For the first time since
her mother's death the girl felt herself sheltering in the warmth of womanly sympathy, and
the comfort of it was very sweet.

"Don't worry too much," said Clive cheerfully.

"Tout s'arrange: that's my motto.  Everything comes straight if you leave it alone."

A cheerful motto indeed, and one seeming to fit well with the picture of the old farmhouse
lying in the morning sunshine.  Low-roofed and white-walled, it was tucked under the shelter
of the Qua-Qua mountains, with apricot orchards stretching away on either side.  Six immense
oaks spread their untrimmed branches above the high stoep, and before the house, where patches
of yellow-green grass grew ragged as a vagabond's hair, a Kerry cow was pegged out and half
a dozen black babies disported themselves amongst the acorns.  Dozens of old paraffin tins
stained with rust, and sawed-off barrels bulging asunder lined the edge of the stoep, all filled
with geraniums, begonias, cacti, red lilies, and feathery bamboos.  Every plant had a flower,
and every flower was a brilliant, vital thing.  Other decorations were a chopping-block, an
oak chest, blistered and curled by the sun, several wooden beds with the bedding rolled up
on them, and two women, who smiled a welcome. These were Ghostie, and belle Helène--the only
names April ever knew them by.

"Welcome to the home for derelicts, broken china, and old crocks," they said.  "You may think
you are none of these things, but there must be something the matter with you or you wouldn't
be here."

"Too true!" thought April, but smilingly answered, "There doesn't seem much wrong with you!"

"Oh, there is, though.  Ghostie is a journalist, recovering from having the soul trampled out
of her by Johannesburg Jews.  I am a singer with a sore throat and a chronic pain in my right
kidney that I am trying to wash away with the juice of Clive's apricots and the milk from Clive's
cows."

"Nuff sed," interposed Clive.  "Let's think about some grub.  I've brought back sausages for
breakfast."

Meekie, the mother of the black babies, had fetched in the parcels from the cart, and already
there was a fizzling sound in the kitchen.  The rest of the household proudly conducted April
to the guest-chamber. There was nothing in it except a packing-case and a bed, but the walls
were covered by noble studies of mountains, Clive pointed out some large holes in the floor,
warning April not to get her foot twisted in them.

"I don't think there are any snakes here," she said carelessly.  "There is an old cobra under
the dining-room floor, and we often hear her hissing to herself, but she never does any harm."

"It is better to sleep on the stoep at night," Ghostie recommended. "We all do."

Before the afternoon April had settled down among them as if she had lived there always.  Sarle
and his kisses seemed like a lost dream; the menace of Kenna was forgotten.  For the first
time in her existence she let herself drift with the tide, taking no thought for the morrow
nor the ultimate port at which her boat would "swing to."  It was lotus-eating in a sense,
yet none of the dwellers at Ho-la-lé-la idled. It is true that Ghostie and belle Helène were
crocks, but they worked at the business of repairing their bodies to tackle the battle of life
once more.  April soon discovered that they were only two of the many of Clive's comrades who
came broken to the farm and went away healed. Clive was a Theosophist: all men were her brothers,
and all women her sisters; but those especially among art-workers who fell by the wayside might
share her bread and blanket.  They called her Old Mother Sphinx, because of her inscrutable
eyes, and the tenderness of her mothering.

She herself never stopped working, and her body was hard as iron from long discipline.  She
rose in the dawn to work on her lands, hoeing, digging her orchards, and tending her cattle
in company with her coloured labourers.  It was only at odd moments or during the heat of the
day that she painted, and all the money she made with paint was swallowed up by the farm, which
did not pay, but which was the very core of her heart.

Impossible for April to be in such company and not work too, even if her thoughts had not demanded
occupation.  So, first she mended the clothes of everybody, including Meekie's ragged piccanins;
then she went to the Paarl, bought a pot of green paint, and spent days of sheer forgetfulness
smartening up the rusty paraffin tins and barrels, and all the bleared and blistered shutters
and doors and sills of the farm, that had not known paint for many years.

At mid-day they bathed in a tree-shaded pool that had formed in the bed of a stream running
across the farm.  They had no bathing frocks but their skins, and sometimes Clive, sitting
stark on the bank, palette in hand, painted the others as they tumbled in the dark brown water,
sporting and splashing like a lot of schoolboys.  Afterwards they would mooch home through
the shimmering noontide heat, deliciously tired, wrapped in reflection and their towels.  Ghostie
provided a perpetual jest by wearing a smart Paris hat with a high cerise crown.  She said
it had once belonged to the fastest woman in South Africa, who had given it to her as a joke,
but she did not mention the lady's name, nor say in what her "fastness" consisted.  This was
characteristic of visitors at Ho-la-lé-la: they sometimes stated facts, but never talked scandal.
When April asked them to call her by her own name, instead of "Diana," they did so without
comment, accepting her as one of themselves, and asking no questions about England, the voyage,
or the Cape.  The scandalous tragedy of the April Fool had never reached them, and if it had
they would have taken little interest except to be sorry for the girl.

In the evenings when work was put away Clive played to them on the 'cello.

"I was determined to have music in my life," she told April.  "And as you can't lug a piano
and musician all over the shop with you, I saw no way of getting it but to darn well teach myself."

And very well she had done it, though why she had chosen a 'cello, which also needed some lugging,
no one knew but herself.  Sitting with it between her heavy boots and breeched legs, the eternal
cigarette drooping from her mouth, she looked more than ever like Galahad, her blue austere
gaze seeming to search beyond the noble mountain tops of her own pictures for some Holy Grail
she would never find.  No complicated music was hers, just grand, simple things like Handel's
"Largo," Van Biene's "Broken Melody," "Ave Maria," or some of Squire's sweet airs.

Sometimes at night they went out and climbed upon a huge rock that stood in the apricot orchard.
It was big enough to build a house on, and called by Clive her Counsel Rock, because there
she took counsel with the stars when things went wrong with the farm.  Lying flat on their
backs they could feel the warmth of the day still in the stone as they gazed at the purple
and silver panoply of heaven spread above them, and Clive would commune with blue-rayed Sirius
and his dark companion; the Gemini, those radiant twins; Orion's belt in the centre sky preciously
gemmed with celestial diamonds; Canopus, a calm, pale yellow star, the largest in our universe;
Mars, gleaming red as a madman's eye; Venus springing from the horizon, the Pleiades slinking
below it.  The "galloping star" she claimed as her own on account of its presumed horsiness.

"It's a funny thing," she said.  "My mother and father were gentle, bookish creatures with
no understanding of animals.  Even if a pony had to be bought for us children, every male thing
of the family--uncles, nephews, tenth cousins--was summoned from every corner of England for
his advice and experience.  Yet these unsophisticated beings have a daughter like me--born
into the world a full-blown horse-dealer!  To say nothing of mules.  You can believe me or
believe me not," she added bragfully, "but there is no one in this land of swindles who knows
more about mules than I do."

They chose to believe her, especially after hearing her haggling and bartering with some of
the itinerant dealers who visited the farm from time to time.

"I don't know vy ve can't do pizness today!  I got no profit in anyting.  I just been here
for a friend"--thus the dealer.

"Ah!  I know who your friend is," Clive would jeer from the stoep. "You keep him under your
own hat.  But don't come here expecting to swop a beautiful mule that cost me 20 pounds for
that skew-eyed crock that will go thin as a rake after three weeks on the sour veld, a 10 pound
note thrown in, and taking me for a fool into the bargain.  Your horse is worth 15 pounds,
and not a bean more."

"I also must lif!"--the whine of the Jew.

"I don't see the necessity."  Clive shamelessly plagiarized Wilde, Plato, or the holy prophets
when it suited her.

"Vot, you know!  You can't do pizness with a womans!"  The dealer would weep tears of blood,
but Clive made the bargain.

A week slid past, and April barely noticed its passing.  No word came from the outer world.
It was not the custom to read newspapers at Ho-la-lé-la, and all letters were stuffed unopened
into a drawer, in case they might be bills.  Close friends were wise enough to communicate
by telegram, or, better still, dump themselves in person upon the doorstep.  The only reason
that April had been expected and fetched was that a "home letter" had heralded the likely advent
of Lady Diana, and given the date and hotel at which she would be staying. Home letters were
never stuffed away unopened.

Late one afternoon, however, there was an unexpected announcement.  The boch-ma-keer-ie bird
began to cry in the orchard, and Clive said it was a surer sign of visitors than any that came
from the telegraph office.

"Tomorrow is Sunday.  We'll have visitors, sure as a gun," she prophesied.

April quailed.  She could not bear the peaceful drifting to end, and wished for no reminder
of that outer world where Bellew, the mail-boat for England, and the dreary task of breaking
an old man's heart awaited her.  Sometimes in spite of herself she was obliged to consider
these things, and the considering threw shadows under her eyes and hollowed her cheeks.  Sarle,
too, though he was a dream by day, became very real at night when she should have been dreaming.
She knew now that she could never escape from the memory of him, and the thought that he was
suffering from her silence and defection tortured her.  What must he think of her, slinking
guiltily away without a word of explanation or farewell?  Doubtless Kenna would set him right!
"Faithful are the wounds of a friend," she thought bitterly.  Better far and braver to have
done the explaining and setting right herself, if only she could have found some way of releasing
herself from the compact of silence made with Diana and Bellew.

Sunday, morning dawned very perfectly.  They were all sleeping on the stoep, their beds in
line against the wall, Clive upon the oak chest, which her austere self-discipline commanded.
At three o'clock, though a few stars lingered, the sky was already tinting itself with the
lovely lustre of a pink pearl.  No sound broke the stillness but the breathing of the sleepers
and the soft perpetual dropping of acorns from the branches overhead.

The peace and beauty of it smote April to the heart.  She pressed her fingers over her eyes
and tears oozed through them, trickling down her face.  When at last she looked again the stars
were gone and the sky was blue as a thrush's egg, with a fluff of rose-red clouds knitted together
overhead and a few crimson rags scudding across the Qua-Quas. A dove suddenly cried, "Choo-coo,
choo-coo," and others took up the refrain, until in the hills and woods hundreds of doves were
greeting the morning with their soft, thrilling cries.  Fowls straying from a barn near by
started scratching in the sand.  The first streak of sunshine shot across the hills and struck
a bush of pomegranates blossoming scarlet by the gate.

Presently the farm workers began to come from their huts and file past the stoep towards the
outhouses.  Julie, the Cape foreman, with a right leg longer than the left, was the first to
stagger by.

"Moorer, Missis!" he said, with a pull of his cap and a swift respectful glance at the stoep.
Clive, awake by now on her oak chest, responded absently without raising her head from the pillow.

"Moorer, Julie!"

Next, Isaac, whose legs were so formed that when he stood still they described a circle, and
when he moved the circle became a triangle.

"Moorer, Missis!" said he.

"Moorer, Isaac!"

Jim, the cowherd, had a hare-lip and no roof to his mouth, and was so modest that he turned
his head away when he lisped his salutation to the stoep.

"Moor-ler, Mithis!"

"Moorer, Jim!"

After a few moment's silence a voice from one of the beds was heard.

"Is the file-past of the Decrepits over?  May one now sleep for a while?"

"This place ought to be called des Invalides," grumbled another.

Clive laughed her large, blithe laugh.

"At any rate, there's nothing wrong with me," she proclaimed, and sprang with one leap into
her top-boots.  Passing April's bed she touched the girl's eyelids tenderly, and her finger-tips
came away wet.

"Nor with our little April, I hope--except a passing shower!  You had better come up the lands
with me this morning, and plant trees."

That was Clive's cure for all ills of the body and soul: to plant trees that would grow up
and benefit Africa long after the planters were dead and forgotten.  No one ever left Ho-la-lé-la
without having had a dose of this medicine, and many an incipient forest lay along the valleys
and down the sides of the Qua-Quas.  So behold April an hour or two later, faring forth with
a pick and a basket full of saplings, followed by Clive leading the Kerry cow, who was sick
and needed exercise.

They lunched in the open, resting from their labours and savouring the sweetness of food earned
by physical labour.  Care was stuffed out of sight, dreams and ghosts faded in the clear sun-beaten
air, and again April realized what life could mean in this wonderful land, given the right
companionship, and a clean heart.  But Clive, with arms clasped about her knees, sat munching
apricots and staring with a strange sadness at her forests of baby trees.  There was an unfulfilled
look on her face, spite of living her own life, and following her star. Neither Africa nor
life had given her all she needed.

Later they wended their way back full of the happy weariness engendered by honest toil.  But
nearing home Clive lifted her nose, and sniffing the breeze like a wild ass of the desert sensing
unfamiliar things scowled bitterly.

"Petrol!" she ejaculated.  "One of those stinking motor-cars!  Why can't people use horses,
like gentlemen?  What's the matter with a nice mule, even?"

As they slouched warily round the house and came in view of the stoep she emitted a staccato
whistle of dismay.  Tethered out upon the vagabondish grass was--not one motor-car, but three!
An opulent thing of blinking brass and crimson leather arrogated to itself the exclusive shade
of the largest tree; a long grey torpedo affair of two seats occupied the pasturage of the
Kerry cow; and blistering in the sunshine, with several fowls perched upon it, was an ancient
Ford wearing the roystering air of a scallywag come home for good.

"That old boch-ma-keer-ie bird knew something!" muttered the painter. "I don't like the look
of this!"

They paused to take counsel of each other, then presently advanced, Clive approaching her own
front door with the stealthy glide of a pickpocket, April tip-toeing behind her.  The idea
was to get indoors without being seen, listen in the hall to discover whether the visitors
were agreeable ones, and if not, to take refuge in the kitchen until they had departed.  Unfortunately
one of them came out of the front door to shake his pipe on the stoep as Clive and April reached
the steps.

"Why, it's old Kerry Sarle!" cried Clive heartily, and stealth fell from her.  She beamed with
happiness, and shook his hand unceasingly, pouring forth questions like water.

"When did you get back?  Why didn't you come before?  What did you bring a crowd for?  Who
have you got with you?"

"Only Kenna.  The crowd doesn't belong to me.  They've come to buy pictures or something, and
are in your studio.  I haven't seen them. We are in the dining-room."

His speech was disjointed and halting, his amazed gaze fixed upon the girl standing thunderstruck
at the foot of the steps.  Clive forged on into the house with a gloomy eye; she hated to sell
pictures, even when she needed the money.  April and Sarle were left together, and in a moment
he was down the step by her side.  They stood looking at each other with the memory of their
last kiss kindling between them.  He had been bitterly hurt, but he loved and trusted her beyond
all things that were, and could not conceal the happiness in his eyes.  Only for the open studio
windows and the round-eyed piccannins, he would have gathered her to his heart; as it was he
gathered her hands instead and held them where they could feel its beating.

"Darling!  Thank God I have found you."

Kenna had not betrayed her, then.  The blow was still to fall.  She managed to smile a little,
but she had turned very pale, and there was something in her silence chilling even to his ardent
spirit.

"You don't think I tracked you down?  We motored out here with no idea but to see Clive Connal----"

"Of course not."  She strove to speak casually.  "I couldn't expect to have a friend like Clive
all to myself, but I never dreamed you knew her."

"She has been my friend for twelve years or more."

"Yes," said Kenna's voice from the stoep, "we are all old friends together here."

He had come out with belle Helène, and stood smiling upon them.  The old malice was there,
with some new element of strain that made him look more sardonic, yet strangely pathetic to
the girl who feared him.

"Who'd have thought to find you here, Lady Di?" he sneered softly. "Life is full of pleasant
surprises!"

They all went into the dining-room, where tea was laid, and Clive brought in her picture-dealers,
who proved to be two globe-trotters anxious to acquire specimens of South African art.  Someone
had told them that Clive Connal stood top of the tree amongst Cape painters, so they had spent
about seven pounds ten on a car from Cape Town in the hope of getting some rare gem for a couple
of guineas.  One was a fat and pompous ass, the other a withered monkey of a fellow who hopped
about peering through his monocle at the pictures on the walls, uttering deprecating criticism
in the hope of bringing down prices.

"This sketch of Victoria Falls is not bad," he piped, gazing at a thing of tender mists and
spraying water above a titanic rock-bound gorge. "The left foreground wants breaking up a bit,
though!"

"I think you want breaking up a bit," muttered Clive, who had already made up her mind to sell
him nothing, and looking longingly at her sjambok lying on the sideboard.  "Where are Ghostie
and the others?" she demanded.

"They had tea by themselves in Ghostie's room."  Belle Helène proffered the statement rather
hesitatingly, and no wonder, in a house where "les amies de mes amis sont mes amies" was the
rule.  It took more than that to offend Clive, but she looked astonished.

"Oh, all right, then, let's have ours," she said, and sitting at the head of her table held
the loaf of home-made brown bread firmly to her breast, carving hefty slices and passing them
on the point of the knife to belle Helène, who jammed them from a tin.  Customs were simple
and the fare frugal at Ho-la-lé-la.  There were only two teaspoons between six, as Ghostie
had the other two in her bedroom.  The jam unfortunately gave out before the globe-trotters
got theirs, but there was some good dripping--if they had only happened to like dripping. They
seemed pained before the end of the meal, and one was heard to murmur to the other as they
went out:

"Would you believe that her father was a clergyman?  Bread and dripping! and jam scratched
out of a tin!  This comes of living in the wilds of Africa, I suppose.  An entire loss of culture!"

The daughter of the clergyman must have surprised them a good deal by her unexpected spurt
of holiness in refusing to sell pictures on a Sunday.  They wound up their old taxi and went
away very much annoyed at having come so far for nothing.

"Whose then is the Babylonian litter with trappings of scarlet and gold?" asked Clive, as the
Ford rattled off.  "You don't mean to say you fellows came in a thing like that?"

They denied it until seventy times seven.  The grey torpedo was Sarle's.  Kenna was of opinion
that the owners of the crimson caravan must be Johannesburgers, and "dripping with it."

"Not Johannesburgers," disputed Clive, with a wry lip.  "No; they're too exclusive for that."

Something must have gone very wrong indeed with the atmosphere for Clive to start sneering.
In truth some jangling element unnatural to the sweet accord of Ho-la-lé-la had been introduced,
and did not leave with the strangers.

They settled down to smoke in the studio, but there was more smoke about than tranquillity.
Sarle seemed distrait.  Belle Helène sometimes cast an uneasy glance at April, who, still very
pale, sat by herself on the lounge.  Only Clive and Kenna talked racily, but in jerks, of cattle,
fruit-blight, mules, and white ants.  But presently all subjects of conversation seemed to
peter out, leaving a dark pool of silence to form between them in the room.  Kenna it was who
threw the stone disturbing those still waters.

"Has any one told you, Miss Connal, about the girl who committed suicide on the Clarendon Castle?"

For a full moment not a word was spoken.  Sarle, staring, made a movement with his hand over
his mat of hair.  April's lids fell over her eyes as though afflicted by a deadly weariness.
Clive changed her cigarette from one corner of her mouth to the other before answering briefly:

"Yes; I know all about it."  Which seemed to astonish Kenna.

"Oh!" he exclaimed.  "I wish I did!"

It was Sarle's turn to look astonished.

"Why, Kenna, I told you everything there was to know.  Besides, it was in the papers."

"No, Kerry.  You told me something . . . and the papers told me something.  Everything can
only be related by one person." Dramatically he fixed his glance upon that person.  There was
no mistaking the challenge.  April found courage to return his glance, but her eyes looked
like the eyes of a drowning girl.  At the sight of them two people were moved to action.  Belle
Helène rose and slipped from the room.  Sarle also rose, but it was to seat himself again by
April's side on the lounge.

"I don't understand what all this is about," he said quietly, "but it seems a good time for
you to know, Kenna, and you, Clive, that we"--he took April's hand in his--"are engaged, and
going to be married as soon as possible."

Kenna looked at him with pity and tenderness.

"You had better let her speak, old man.  It is time you were undeceived."

"Be careful, Kenna."

"My dear Kerry, do you suppose that it gives me any pleasure to cause you pain, or to distress
this charming lady?  Only my friendship for you----"

"I can dispense with it," Sarle curtly interrupted.

"Ah!  That's the way when a woman steps in."  Kenna's lips twisted in a bitter grin.  Sarle
turned to April.

"Diana . . ."

"That is the very crux of the matter," rapped out, Kenna.  "She is not Diana."

"What in God's name----?" began Sarle.

"What I want to know," pursued Kenna sombrely, "is--why, if Diana Vernilands jumped overboard,
does this girl go masquerading under her title?"

"Are you mad?"  Sarle stared from one to the other.  "Haven't you known her all your life?
Did you not meet as old friends?"

Kenna shrugged.  "I never set eyes on her until that day at the 'Mount Nelson.'  She was a
friend of yours and chose to call herself by the name of a friend of mine, and . . . I humoured
her . . . and you.  But the thing has gone too far.  After inquiries among other passengers
I have realized the truth--that it was Diana who . . ."  A spasm of pain flickered across his
melancholy eyes.  Sarle, in grave wonder and hurt, turned to April.

"It is true," she cried bitterly, pierced to the heart by his look. "Diana is drowned.  I am
a masquerader."  Even if she had been nothing to him he could not have remained unmoved by
the desperate pleading of her eyes.  But he happened to love her with the love that casts out
fear, and distrust, and all misunderstanding.

"I am the real April Poole," she said, broken, but resolute that at least there should be no
further mistake.  He gave her one long look, then lifted her hand, and held it closer.  The
gesture was for all the world to see.  But Kenna had not finished with her.

"You will allow a natural curiosity in me to demand why you should wear the name and retain
the possessions of my friend Lady Diana Vernilands?" he asked, dangerously suave.

Then Clive sprang full-armed to the fray.

"And you will allow a natural curiosity in me to demand why you should harry my friend like
this--browbeat her for a girlish folly entered into mutually by two girls and ending in tragedy
through no fault of April's?"  The painter's eyes burned with a blue fire bleak as her own
mountain tops.  It was as though Joan of Arc had come to the rescue and was sweeping the room
with valiant sword.  Even Kenna was partially intimidated.

"That is her story," he muttered.

"You fool, Ronald Kenna," she said gently.  "Can't you look in her face and see there is no
touch of treachery or darkness there?  Thank God, Kerry is not so blind."

There was a deep silence.  Then she said:

"Listen, then, to my story," and repeated the facts April had told her, but as April could
never have told them, so profound was her understanding of the motives of the two girls in
exchanging identities, so tender her treatment of the wayward Diana.  Truly this "unfulfilled
woman" was greater in the width and depth of her soul than many of those to whom life has given
fulfilment of their dreams.

Daylight faded, and shadows stole through the open windows.  In the large, low-ceiled room
clustered with saddles and harness and exquisite pictures, everything grew dim, except their
white faces, and the glistening of tears as they dripped from April's lids.

"I must ask to be forgiven," said Kenna very humbly, at last.  "My only plea is that my friendship
for Kerry blinded me.  And . . ." he halted an instant before the confession of his trouble.
"I once loved that little wayward girl."

So it was Diana Vernilands who had proved false and sent him into the wilds!  Somehow that
explained much to them all: much for forgiveness, but very much more for pity and sympathy.

Suddenly the peace of eventide was rudely shattered by the jarring clank of a motor being geared-up
for starting.  Evidently Ghostie's friends were departing in the same aloof spirit with which
they had held apart all the afternoon.  No one in the studio stirred to speed the parting guests.
It did not seem fitting to obtrude upon the pride of the great.  A woman's voice bade good-bye,
and Ghostie was heard warning them of a large rock fifty yards up the lane.  A man called good-night,
and they were off.

"By Jove!  I know that fellow's voice," puzzled Sarle.  April thought she did too, but she
was in a kind of happy trance where voices did not matter.  The next episode was Ghostie at
the studio window blotting out the evening skies.

"They have gone," she timidly announced.

"Ah!  Joy go with them," remarked Clive, more in relief than regret.

"But there is still one of them in my room."

"What?"

"She has been waiting to speak to you all the afternoon; they all have, but they could not
face the crowd."

"Pore fellers," said Clive, with cutting irony.

"The one in my room's--a girl," said Ghostie--"a friend of yours."

"She has strange ways," commented Clive glumly.  "But ask her to come in.  These also are my
friends."

Ghostie disappeared.  Simultaneously the two men arose; remarking that they must be going--they
had stayed too late, and it was getting dark. Clive easily shut them up.

"Of course you can't go.  Stay to supper and go back by the light of the moon.  We've got to
have some music and sit on the Counsel Rock, and eat--apricots and all sorts of things yet.
And afterwards we'll come a bit of the way with you."

They did not need much persuasion to settle down again.  Clive handed round smokes.

"We won't spoil the best hour of the day by lighting the lamp," she said.  They waited.  In
a minute or so they heard the strange girl approaching.  The house consisted of a number of
rooms built in the form of a square round a little back courtyard.  Each room led into the
other, but had also an outer door.  Ghostie's room was third from the studio, with one between,
unused because of huge holes in the floor. It was through this dilapidated chamber that the
girl could now be heard approaching, clicking her high heels and picking her way delicately
by the aid of a candle whose beams showed under the door and flicked across the courtyard at
the back.  In spite of its light she caught one of her high heels in a hole, and a faint but
distinctly naughty word was heard, followed by a giggle.  As she reached the door she blew
out the candle.  They heard the puff of her breath, as plainly as they had heard the naughty
word.  Then she stood in the open doorway, visible only because she wore a white dress.

"Come in," said Clive with politeness, but irony not quite gone from her voice.  The figure
did not stir or speak.  For some reason unknown to her, April felt the hair on her scalp stir
as though a chill wind had blown through it.  And the same wind sent a thrill down her backbone.
Clive repeated the invitation, somewhat sharply, and then the girl spoke.

"I'm ashamed to come in."

The voice was timid, and very low, but it was enough to make April give a broken cry and hide
her face in Sarle's shoulder.  Kenna leapt to his feet, and next moment the yellow spurt of
a lighted match in his hand revealed the drooping face of the girl in the doorway.

"My God!  Diana!"

"Yes; isn't it awful!" she said mournfully.  "I know I ought to be dead, but I'm not.  How
do you do, Ronny?"

She passed him and came slowly across the room to the girl who was trembling violently against
Sarle's shoulder.  The strain of the day, ending in this, was almost more than April Poole
could bear.

"Don't be frightened, April."  She was genuinely concerned.  "It is really me and not my ghost.
You see, I never jumped overboard at all, but simply hid in one of Geoffrey Bellew's big packing-cases.
I really could not face those enraged beasts and Philistines any longer."

There was an amazed and gasping silence, but Diana in the middle of the limelight was in her
element, and rapidly regained her spirits.  She tripped to Clive and shook her warmly by the hand.

"So pleased to see you.  I should have come out here long ago, but I got so knocked about in
the packing-case that I had to go to bed and be nursed by Geoff's old aunt at Wynberg.  Everything
perfectly proper, so don't be alarmed.  She chaperoned us out here this afternoon, you know,
and would have liked to see you, but really it was rather awkward with Ronny and Major Sarle
turning up immediately afterwards.  We didn't expect to find April here either--naturally.
That was a nasty bang in the eye.  I begged Ghostie to hide me in her room, and we waited and
waited, but these terrible men seem to have taken root here."  She twinkled at them gaily,
but no one appeared to have recovered sufficiently from shock to reciprocate her pert amusement.

"So at last, of course, I had to bundle them off and face the music alone.  Especially as belle
Helène told me there was some sort of trouble boiling up in here for poor April."

"I suppose you never realized that trouble has been boiling up for her ever since you disappeared?"
said Clive.

"Oh, but of course; and I've been dreadfully sorry, and worrying myself to ribbons."

"It doesn't seem to have interfered with your health," was Clive's only rejoinder.  "May one
ask what you intended to do to put things straight?"

Diana had the grace to look slightly abashed--only slightly.

"There was nothing for it but to come out here to you and sit tight until the scandal had blown
over, while April returned to England. Once she got on board she would have found a letter
telling her it was all right, and that I was not dead at all."

"Very charming and considerate too!" commented Ronald Kenna acidly.  "A few other people, including
Sarle and myself, might have been dead in the meantime, but what would that have mattered?"

It was no use being acid with Diana, however.  She was riotously pleased with herself, and
bubbling over with pride in her cleverness, and joy in her escape from seclusion.  Infection
from her light-heartedness was almost impossible, and once the shock had passed, April easily
forgave her the cruel and thoughtless part she had played, the hours of anguish she had given.
Sarle and Kenna exchanged one grim glance, but it ended in a smile.  The deep-rooted friendships
of men do not hurry to such short and poor conclusions.  Besides, Sarle had come that day to
the attainment of his heart's desire, and was not inclined to fall out with either Fate or
friends.  As for Kenna, looking at the gilt-haired minx who held his heart-strings, he saw
as in a vision that days of peaceful loneliness on the veld were passing, and the future held
more uneasiness and folly than the mere month of April could cover.  He would need all the
friends he had to see him through.

[1] Basuto for "Far away over there."