Years rolled on, and I gradually became a marked man in the profession, gaining in due time
that summit of a junior's ambition--a silk gown. I now began to live in a style of considerable
comfort, and was what the world calls a very rising lawyer, when I one day happened to be retained
as counsel in a political case then creating much excitement. I chanced to be on the popular
side; and, from the exertions I made, found myself suddenly brought into contact with the leading
men of the party in the town where the dispute arose. They were so well satisfied with my endeavours
to gain the cause, as to offer to propose me as a candidate for the representation of their
borough at the next vacancy. This proposition, after some consideration, I accepted; and accordingly,
when the general election took place, found myself journeying down to D----, canvassing the
voters, flattering some, consoling others, using the orthodox electioneering tricks of platform-speaking,
treating, &c. Politics ran very high just then, and the two parties were nearly balanced, so
that every nerve was strained on each side to win the victory. All business was suspended.
Bands of music paraded the streets, party flags waved from the house windows, whilst gay rosettes
fastened to the button-hole attested their wearer's opinions. All was noise, and excitement,
and confusion. At length the important hour drew near for closing the polling-booths. Early
in the morning, we were still in a slight minority, and almost began to despair of the day.
All now depended on a few voters living at some distance, whose views could not be clearly
ascertained. Agents from either side had been despatched during the night to beat up these
stragglers, and on their decision rested the final issue. Hour after hour anxiously passed
without any intelligence. My opponents rubbed their hands, and looked pleasant, when, about
half an hour before the close of the poll, a dusty coach drove rapidly into the town, and eight
men, more or less inebriated, rolled out to record their votes. The following morning, amidst
the stillness of deep suspense, the mayor read the result of the election, which gave me a
majority of three. Such a shout of joy arose from the liberals as quite to drown the hisses
of the contending faction; and at length I rose, flushed with excitement, to return thanks.
This proved the signal for another burst of applause; and amid the shouting and groaning, screaming
and waving of hats, I lost all presence of mind, and fell overcome into the arms of my nearest
supporters.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Dear me, sir, you've been wandering strangely in your sleep. Here have I been a-knocking at
the door this half-hour. The shaving-water is getting cold, and Mr Thomas is waiting yonder
in the other room, to give you some papers he's got this morning.'

I rose, rubbed my eyes, wondered what it all meant. Ah, yes; there was no mistaking the room
and Mrs M'Donnell's good-natured Scotch voice. It was all a dream, and my imagination had magnified
the thumping at the door into the 'sweet music of popular applause.' I fell back in bed, hid
my face in the pillow, sighed over my short-lived glory, and felt very wretched when my young
clerk came smiling into the room. 'Here's some business at last, sir!' cried the boy with pleasure.

To his astonishment, I looked carelessly at the papers, and found they consisted of 'a motion
of course,' which some tender-hearted attorney had kindly sent me. Heigh-ho! it was all to
be done over again! I flung the document on the ground in utter despair; but gradually recovering
my temper, I at length took heart, and fell earnestly to work. At all events, this was a real
beginning; so I began to grow reconciled to the ruin of my stately castle of cards. It was
a cruel blow, though; and now, reader, you have learned how I came by MY FIRST BRIEF.

ELECTRO-BIOLOGY--(SO-CALLED.)

That the phenomena now so commonly exhibited under the above title, demand a careful examination,
and, if possible, a distinct explanation, will be readily admitted. It is clear that they ought
not to be allowed to rest as materials for popular amusement, but should be submitted to strict
scientific inquiry. The theory which so boldly ascribes them to electric influence, should
be strictly examined. If this theory is found to be untenable, some important questions will
remain to be considered; such as: May not the phenomena be explained on physiological principles?
and, Is it not probable that the means employed may have an injurious tendency?

The extent to which public attention has been excited by the phenomena, may be guessed by a
glance at the advertising columns of the Times, and by placards meeting the eye in various
parts of the country, announcing that, 'at the Mechanics' Institute,' or elsewhere, experiments
will be performed in 'electro-biology,' when 'persons in a perfectly wakeful state' will be
'deprived of the powers of sight, hearing, and taste,' and subjected to various illusions.
One advertiser professes to give 'the philosophy of the science;' another undertakes to 'reveal
the secret,' so as to enable any person to make the experiments; and another undertakes the
cure of 'palsy, deafness, and rheumatism.' Lectures on the topic, in London and in the provincial
towns, are now exciting great astonishment in the minds of many, and give rise to considerable
controversy respecting the theory and the modus operandi.

It is on this latter point--the means by which the effects are produced--that we would chiefly
direct our inquiry, for we shall very briefly dismiss the attempt to explain them by a vague
charge of collusion or imposture.

If this charge could be reasonably maintained, it would, of course, make all further remarks
unnecessary, as our topic would then no longer be one for scientific investigation, but could
only be added to the catalogue of fraud. It is possible that there may have been some cases
of feigning among the experiments, but these do not affect the general reality of the effects
produced. So epilepsy and catalepsy have been feigned; but these diseases are still found real
in too many instances. We need not dwell on this point; for it may be safely assumed, that
all persons who have had a fair acquaintance with the experiments of electro-biology (so-called),
are fully convinced that, in a great number of cases, the effects seen are real and sincere,
not simulated. The question then remains: Are these effects fairly attributed to 'electric'
influence, or may they not be truly explained by some other cause?

Before we proceed to consider this question, it will be well to give some examples of the phenomena
to which our remarks apply. We shall state only such cases as we have seen and carefully examined.

A. is a young man well known by a great number of the spectators--unsuspected of falsehood--knows
nothing of the experimenter or of electro-biology, not even the meaning of the words. After
submitting to the process employed by the lecturer--sitting still, and gazing fixedly upon
a small disk of metal for about a quarter of an hour--he is selected as a suitable subject.
When told by the experimenter that he cannot open his eyes, he seems to make an effort, but
does not open them until he is assured that he can do so. He places his hand upon a table--is
told that he cannot take the hand off the table--seems to make a strong effort to remove it,
but fails, until it is liberated by a word from the lecturer. A walking-stick is now placed
in his right hand, and he is challenged to strike the extended hand of the lecturer. He throws
back the stick over his shoulder, and seems to have a very good will to strike, but cannot
bring the stick down upon the hand. He afterwards declares to all who question him, that he
'tried with all his might' to strike the hand. A. has certainly no theatrical talents; but
his looks and gestures, when he is made to believe that he is exposed to a terrific storm,
convey a very natural expression of terror. He regards the imaginary flashes of lightning with
an aspect of dismay, which, if simulated, would be a very good specimen of acting. In many
other experiments performed upon him, the effects seem to be such as are quite beyond the reach
of any scepticism with regard to his sincerity. He cannot pronounce his own name--does not
know, or at least cannot tell, the name of the town in which he lives--cannot recognise one
face in the room where scores of people, who know him very well, are now laughing at him. On
the other side, we must state, that when a glass of water is given to him, and he is told that
it is vinegar, he persists in saying that he tastes water, and nothing else. This is almost
the only experiment that fails upon him.

B. is an intelligent man, upwards of thirty years of age, of nervous temperament. His honesty
and veracity are quite beyond all rational doubt. The numerous spectators, who have known him
well for many years, are quite sure that if he has any will in the matter, it is simply to
defeat the lecturer's purpose. However, after he has submitted himself to the process, the
experiments made upon him prove successful. He is naturally a fluent talker, but now cannot,
without difficulty and stammering, pronounce his own name, an easy monosyllable--cannot strike
the lecturer's hand--cannot rise from a chair, &c. We may add, that he cannot be made to mistake
water for vinegar.

One more case. C. is a tradesman, middle-aged, has no tendency to mysticism or imaginative
reverie--knows nothing of 'mesmerism' or 'electro-biology'--was never suspected of falsehood
or imposition. He proves, however, the most pliable of all the patients--the experiments succeed
with him to the fullest extent--his imagination and his senses seem to be placed entirely under
the control of the experimenter. Standing before a large audience, he is made to believe that
he and the lecturer are alone in the room. He cannot recognise his own wife, who sits before
him. He cannot step from the platform, which is about one foot higher than the floor. When
informed that his limbs are too feeble to support him, he totters, and would fall if not held.
Many of the experiments upon him, shewing an extreme state of mental and physical prostration,
are rather painful to witness, others are ludicrous; for instance, he is made to believe that
he is out amid the snow in the depth of winter--he shivers with cold, buttons up his coat,
beats the floor with his feet, brushes away the imagined fast-falling flakes from his clothes,
and almost imparts to the spectators a sympathetic feeling of cold by his wintry pantomime:
then he is jocosely recommended not to stand thus shivering, but to make snow-balls, and pelt
the lecturer. Heartily, and with apparent earnestness, he acts according to orders. Next, he
is made to believe that the room has no roof.--'You see the sky and the stars, sir?'--'Yes.'
'And there, see, the moon is rising, very large and red, is it not?'--'Yes, sir.' 'Very well:
now you see this cord in my hand; we will throw it over the moon, and pull her down.' He addresses
himself to the task with perfect gravity, pulls heartily. 'Down she comes, sir! down she comes!'
says the experimenter: 'mind your head, sir!'--and the deluded patient falls on the platform,
as he imagines that the moon is coming down upon him.

These instances will be sufficient for our purpose. We have given them as fair average examples
of many others. If any reader still supposes that these effects have all been mere acting and
falsehood, we must leave that reader to see and examine for himself as we have done.[4] For
other readers who admit the facts and want an explanation, we proceed to discuss the modus
operandi.

In the first place, then, we assert that there is no proof whatever that these effects depend
upon any electric influence: there is absolutely no evidence that the metallic disk, as an
'electric' agent, has any connection with the results. On this point, we invite the lecturers
and experimenters who maintain that electricity is the agent in their process, to test the
truth of our assertion, as they may very easily. Coeteris paribus--all the other usual conditions
being observed, such as silence, the fixed gaze, monotony of attention--let the galvanic disk
be put aside, and in its place let a sixpence or a fourpenny-piece be employed, or indeed any
similar small object on which the eyes of the patient must remain fixed for the usual space
of time, and we will promise that the experiments thus made shall be equally successful with
those in which the so-called galvanic disk is employed. The phenomena are physiological and
not electrical.

Our conviction is, that the results proceed entirely from imagination acting with a peculiar
condition of the brain, and that this peculiarly passive and impressible condition of the brain
is induced by the fixed gaze upon the disk. These are the only agencies which we believe to
be necessary, in order to give us an explanation of the phenomena in question. In saying so,
however, we are aware that such data will seem to some inquirers insufficient to account for
the effects we have described. It may be said: 'We know that imagination sometimes produces
singular results, but can hardly see how it explains the facts stated.' We have only to request
that such inquirers, before they throw aside our explanation, will give attention to a few
remarks on the power of imagination in certain conditions. We propose, 1st, To give some suggestions
on this point; 2d, To notice the relations of imagination with reason; and, 3d, To inquire
how far the physical means employed--the fixed gaze on the disk--may be sufficient to affect
the mental organ, the brain, so as to alter its normal condition.

1. Our usual mode of speaking of imagination, is to treat it as the opposite of all reality.
When we say, 'that was merely an imagination,' we dismiss the topic as not worthy of another
thought. For all ordinary purposes, this mode of speaking is correct enough; but let us ask,
Why is imagination so weak?--why are its suggestions so evanescent? Simply because it is under
the control of reason. But if the action of reason could be suspended, we should then see how
great, and even formidable, is the imaginative power. It is the most untiring of all our mental
faculties, refusing to be put to rest even during sleep: it can alter the influence of all
external agents--for example, can either assist or prevent the effects of medicine--can make
the world a prison-house to one man, and a paradise to another--can turn dwarfs into giants,
and make various other metamorphoses more wonderful than any described by Ovid; nay, these
are all insufficient examples of its power when left without control; for it can produce either
health, or disease, or death!

To give a familiar instance of the control under which it is generally compelled to act: You
are walking home in the night-time, and some withered and broken old tree assumes, for a moment,
the appearance of a giant about to make an attack upon you with an enormous club. You walk
forward to confront the monster with perfect coolness. Why? Not because you are a Mr Greatheart,
accustomed to deal with giants, but because, in fact, the illusion does not keep possession
of your mind even for a moment. Imagination merely suggests the false image; but memory and
reason, with a rapidity of action which cannot be described, instantly correct the mistake,
and tell you it is only the old elm-tree; so that here, and in a thousand similar instances,
there is really no sufficient time allowed for any display of the power of imagination.

A tale is told--we cannot say on what authority--which, whether it be a fact or a fiction,
is natural, and may serve very well to shew what would be the effect of imagination if reason
did not interfere. It is said that the companions of a young man, who was very 'wild,' had
foolishly resolved to try to frighten him into better conduct. For this purpose, one of the
party was arrayed in a white sheet, with a lighted lantern carried under it, and was to visit
the young man a little after midnight, and address to him a solemn warning. The business, however,
was rather dangerous, as the subject of this experiment generally slept with loaded pistols
near him. Previously to the time fixed for the apparition, the bullets were abstracted from
these weapons, leaving them charged only with gunpowder. When the spectre stalked into the
chamber, the youth instantly suspected a trick, and, presenting one of the pistols, said: 'Take
care of yourself: if you do not walk off, I shall fire!' Still stood the goblin, staring fixedly
on the angry man. He fired; and when he saw the object still standing--when he believed that
the bullet had innocuously passed through it--in other words, as soon as reason failed to explain
it and imagination prevailed--he fell back upon his pillow in extreme terror.

2. The point upon which we would insist is that, in the normal condition of the mind and the
body, the power of imagination is so governed, that a display of the effects it produces while
under the control of reason, can give us but a feeble notion of what its power might be in
other circumstances. To make this plain, we add a few suggestions respecting the nature and
extent of the control exercised by reason over imagination; and we shall next proceed to shew,
that the activity of reason is dependent upon certain physical conditions.

We shall say nothing of a metaphysical nature respecting reason, but shall simply point to
two important facts connected with its exercise. The first--that it suspends or greatly modifies
the action of other powers--has already been noticed in our remarks on imagination; but we
must state it here in more distinct terms. We especially wish the reader to understand how
wide and important is the meaning of the terms 'control' and 'overrule' as we use them when
we say: 'reason controls, or overrules, imagination!' When we say that, in nature, the laws
which regulate one stage of existence overrule the laws of another and a lower stage, we do
not intend to say that the latter are annulled, but that they are so controlled and modified
in their course of action, that they can no longer produce the effects which would take place
if they were left free from such control. A few examples will make our meaning plain. Let us
contrast the operations of chemistry with those of mechanism. In the latter, substances act
upon each other simply by pressure, motion, friction, &c.; but in chemistry, affinities and
combinations come into play, producing results far beyond any that are seen in mechanics. On
mechanical principles, the trituration of two substances about equal in hardness should simply
reduce them to powder, but in chemistry, it may produce a gaseous explosion. Again--vegetable
life overrules chemistry: the leaves, twigs, and branches of a tree, if left without life,
would, when exposed to the agencies of air, light, heat, and moisture, be partly reduced to
dust and partly diffused as gas in the atmosphere. It is the vegetative life of the tree which
controls both the mechanical and the chemical powers of wind, rain, heat, and gravitation;
and it is not until the life is extinct that these inferior powers come into full play upon
the tree. So, again, the animal functions control chemical laws--take digestion, for example:
a vegetable cut up by the root and exposed to the air, passes through a course of chemical
decomposition, and is finally converted into gas; but when an animal consumes a vegetable,
it is not decomposed according to the chemical laws, but is digested, becomes chyle, and is
assimilated to the body of the animal. It is obvious that animal life controls mechanical laws.
Thus, the friction of two inert substances wears one of them away--the soft yields to the hard;
but, on the contrary, the hand of the labourer who wields the spade or the pickaxe becomes
thicker and harder by friction.

The bearing of these remarks upon our present point will soon be obvious: we multiply examples,
in order to shew in what an important sense we use the word control, with regard to the relation
of reason with imagination. As we have seen, chemistry overrules the mechanical laws; vegetation
suspends the laws of chemistry; a superior department of animal life controls influences which
are laws in a lower department; again, mind controls the effects of physical influences; and,
lastly, one power of the mind controls, and in a great measure suspends, the natural activity
of another power--reason controls imagination. A second fact with regard to the action of reason
must be noticed--that it requires a wakeful condition of the brain. Some may suppose that they
have reasoned very well during sleep; but we suspect that, if they could recollect their syllogisms,
they would find them not much better than Mickle's poetry composed during sleep. Mickle, the
translator of the Lusiad, sometimes expressed his regret that he could not remember the poetry
which he improvised in his dreams, for he had a vague impression that it was very beautiful.
'Well,' said his wife, 'I can at least give you two lines, which I heard you muttering over
during one of your poetic dreams. Here they are:

    "By Heaven! I'll wreak my woes
    Upon the cowslip and the pale primrose!"'

If we required proof that the operation of reason demands a wakeful and active condition of
the brain, we might find it in the fact, that all intellectual efforts which imply sound reasoning
are prevented even by a partial sleepiness or dreaminess. A light novel may be read and enjoyed
while the mind is in an indolent and dreamy state; music may be enjoyed, or even composed,
in the same circumstances, because it is connected rather with the imaginative than with the
logical faculty; but, not to mention any higher efforts, we cannot play a game of chess well
unless we are 'wide awake.'

Now we come to our point:--Supposing that, by any means, the brain can be deprived of that
wakefulness and activity which is required for a free exercise of the reasoning powers, then
what would be the effect on the imagination? For an answer to this query, we shall not refer
to the phenomena of natural sleep and dreaming, because it is evident that the subjects of
the experiments we have to explain are not in a state of natural sleep; we shall rather refer
to the condition of the brain during what we may call 'doziness,' and also to the effects sometimes
produced by disease on the imagination and the senses.

We all know that in a state of 'doziness,' any accidental or ridiculous image which happens
to suggest itself, will remain in the mind much longer than in a wakeful condition. A few slight,
shapeless marks on the ceiling will assume the form of a face or a full-length figure; and
strange physiognomies will be found among the flowers on the bed-curtains. In the impressible
and passive state of the brain left by any illness which produces nervous exhaustion, such
imaginations often become very troublesome. Impressions made on the brain some time ago will
now reappear. Jean Paul Richter cautions us not to tell frightful stories to children, for
this reason--that, though the 'horrible fancies' may all be soon forgotten by the healthful
child, yet afterwards, when some disease--a fever, for instance--has affected the brain and
the nerves, all the dismissed goblins may too vividly reproduce themselves. Our experience
can confirm the observation. Some years ago, we went to a circus, where, during the equestrian
performances, some trivial popular airs were played on brass instruments--cornets and trombones--dismally
out of tune. Now, by long practice, we have acquired the art of utterly turning our attention
away from, bad music, so that it annoys us no more than the rumble of wheels in Fleet Street.
We exercised this voluntary deafness on the occasion. But not long afterwards, we were compelled,
during an attack of disease which affected the nervous system, to hear the whole discordant
performance repeated again and again, with a pertinacity which was really very distressing.
Such a case prepares us to give credit to a far more remarkable story, related in one of the
works of Macnish. A clergyman, we are told, who was a skilful violinist, and frequently played
over some favourite solo or concerto, was obliged to desist from practice on account of the
dangerous illness of his servant-maid--if we remember truly, phrenitis was the disease. Of
course, the violin was laid aside; but one day, the medical attendant, on going toward the
chamber of his patient, was surprised to hear the violin-solo performed in rather subdued tones.
On examination, it was found that the girl, under the excitement of disease, had imitated the
brilliant divisions and rapid passages of the music which had impressed her imagination during
health! We might multiply instances of the singular effects of peculiar conditions of the brain
upon the imaginative faculty. For one case we can give our personal testimony. A young man,
naturally imaginative, but by no means of weak mind, or credulous, or superstitious, saw, even
in broad daylight, spectres or apparitions of persons far distant. After being accustomed to
these visits, he regarded them without any fear, except on account of the derangement of health
which they indicated. These visions were banished by a course of medical treatment. In men
of great imaginative power, with whom reason is by no means deficient, phenomena sometimes
occur almost as vivid as those of disease in other persons. Wordsworth, speaking of the impressions
derived from certain external objects, says:

       ------------ on the mind
    They lay like images, and seemed almost
    To haunt the bodily sense!

Again, in his verses recording his impression of the beauty of a bed of daffodils, he says:

    And oft, when on my couch I lie, [dozing?]
    They flash before that inward eye
    Which is the bliss of solitude.

These words are nothing more, we believe, than a simple and unexaggerated statement of a mental
phenomenon.

Enough has now been said to shew, that in a certain condition of the brain, when it is deprived
of the wakefulness and activity necessary for the free use of reason, the effects of imagination
may far exceed any that are displayed during a normal, waking state of the intellectual faculties.
The question now remains: Are the means employed by the professors of electro-biology sufficient
to produce that peculiar condition to which we refer? We believe that they are; and shall proceed
to give reasons for such belief.

3. What are these means? or rather let us ask, 'Amid the various means employed, which is the
real agent?' We observe that, in the different processes by which--under the names of electro-biology
or mesmerism--a peculiar cerebral condition is induced, such means as the following are employed:--Fixed
attention on one object--it may be a metallic disk said to have galvanic power, or a sixpence,
or a cork; silence, and a motionless state of the body are favourable to the intended result;
monotonous movements by the experimenter, called 'passes,' may be used or not. The process
may be interrupted by frequent winking, to relieve the eyes; by studying over some question
or problem; or, if the patient is musical, by going through various pieces of music in his
imagination; by anything, indeed, which tends to keep the mind wakeful. Now, when we find among
the various means one invariably present, in some form or another--monotony of attention producing
a partial exhaustion of the nervous energy, we have reason to believe that this is the real agent.

But how can the 'fixed gaze upon the disk' affect reason? Certainly, it does not immediately
affect reason; but through the nerves of the eye it very powerfully operates on the organ of
reason, the brain, and induces an impressive, passive, and somnolent condition.

Such a process as the 'fixed gaze on a small disk for about the space of a quarter of an hour,'
must not be dismissed as a trifle. It is opposed to the natural wakeful action of the brain
and the eye. Let it be observed that, in waking hours, the eye is continually in play, relieving
itself, and guarding against weariness and exhaustion by unnumbered changes of direction. This
is the case even during such an apparently monotonous use of the eye as we find in reading.
As sleep approaches, the eye is turned upwards, as we find it also in some cases of disease--hysteria,
for example; and it should be noticed, that this position of the eye is naturally connected
with a somnolent and dreaming condition of the brain. In several of the subjects of the so-called
electro-biological experiments, we observed that the eyes were partially turned upward. It
is curious to notice that this mode of acting on the brain is of very ancient date, at least
among the Hindoos. In their old poem, the Bhagavad-Gita, it is recommended as a religious exercise,
superior to prayer, almsgiving, attendance at temples, &c.; for the god Crishna, admitting
that these actions are good, so far as they go, says: 'but he who, sitting apart, gazes fixedly
upon one object until he forgets home and kindred, himself, and all created things--he attains
perfection.' Not having at hand any version of the Bhagavad-Gita, we cannot now give an exact
translation of the passage; but we are quite sure that it recommends a state of stupefaction
of the brain, induced by a long-continued fixed gaze upon one object.

We have now stated, 1st, That such an act of long-fixed attention upon one object, has a very
remarkable effect on the brain; 2d, That in the cerebral condition thus induced, the mental
powers are not free to maintain their normal relations to each other; especially, will, comparison,
and judgment, appear to lose their requisite power and promptitude of action, and are thus
made liable to be overruled by the suggestions of imagination or the commands of the experimenter.

To this explanation we can only add, that all who doubt it may easily put it to an experimental
test. If it is thought that the mere 'fixed gaze,' without electric or galvanic agency, is
not sufficient to produce the phenomena in question, then the only way of determining our dispute
must be by fair experiment. But here we would add a word of serious caution, as we regard the
process as decidedly dangerous, especially if frequently repeated on one subject.

To conclude: we regard the exhibitions now so common under the name of electro-biology as delusions,
so far as they are understood to have any connection with the facts of electricity; so far
as they are real, we regard them as very remarkable instances of a mode of acting on the brain
which is, we believe, likely to prove injurious. As we have no motive in writing but simply
to elicit the truth, we will briefly notice two difficulties which seem to attend our theory.
These are--1. The rapid transition from the state of illusion to an apparently wakeful and
normal condition of mind. The patient who has been making snow-balls in a warm room, and has
pulled the moon down, comes from the platform, recognises his friends, and can laugh at the
visions which to him seemed realities but a few minutes since. 2. The apparently slight effects
left, in some cases, after the experiments. Among the subjects whom we have questioned on this
point, one felt 'rather dizzy' all the next day after submitting to the process; another felt
'a pressure on the head;' but a third, who was one of the most successful cases, felt 'no effects
whatever' afterwards; while a fourth thinks he derived 'some benefit' to his health from the
operation. We leave these points for further inquiry.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] We can corroborate the view taken by the writer of this article as to the reality of the
effects produced on the persons submitting to the process, having seen many who are intimately
known to us experimented on with success. The incredulity which still prevails on this subject
in London can only be attributed to the necessary rarity, in so large a town, of experiments
performed on persons known to the observers.--ED.

NEW MOTIVE-POWER.

We copy the following from an American newspaper, without vouching for the accuracy of the
statement:--'The Cincinnati Atlas announces a wonderful invention in that city. Mr Solomon,
a native of Prussia, is the inventor. He is a gentleman of education, and was professor of
a college in his native land at the age of twenty-five. In Cincinnati, he prosecuted his scientific
researches and experiments, which now promise to result in fame, wealth, and honour to himself,
and incalculable benefit to the whole human family. The invention of a new locomotive and propelling
power by Mr Solomon was mentioned some six months ago; and a few days ago, his new engine,
in course of construction for many months, was tested, and the most sanguine expectations of
the inventor more than realised. The Atlas says: "On Monday last, the engine was kept in operation
during the day, and hundreds of spectators witnessed and were astonished at its success. The
motive-power is obtained by the generation and expansion, by heat, of carbonic acid gas. Common
whiting, sulphuric acid, and water, are used in generating this gas, and the 'boiler' in which
these component parts are held, is similar in shape and size to a common bomb-shell. A small
furnace, with a handful of ignited charcoal, furnishes the requisite heat for propelling this
engine of 25 horsepower. The relative power of steam and carbonic acid is thus stated:--Water
at the boiling-point gives a pressure of 15 pounds to the square inch. With the addition of
30 degrees of heat, the power is double, giving 30 pounds; and so on, doubling with every additional
30 degrees of heat, until we have 4840 pounds under a heat of 452 degrees--a heat which no
engine can endure. But with the carbon, 20 degrees of heat above the boiling-point give 1080
pounds; 40 degrees give 2160 pounds; 80 degrees, 4320 pounds; that is, 480 pounds greater power
with this gas, than 451 degrees of heat give by converting water into steam! Not only does
this invention multiply power indefinitely, but it reduces the expense to a mere nominal amount.
The item of fuel for a first-class steamer, between Cincinnati and New Orleans, going and returning,
is between 1000 and 1200 dollars, whereas 5 dollars will furnish the material for propelling
the boat the same distance by carbon. Attached to the new engine is also an apparatus for condensing
the gas after it has passed through the cylinders, and returning it again to the starting-place,
thus using it over and over, and allowing none to escape. While the engine was in operation
on Monday, it lifted a weight of 12,000 pounds up the distance of five feet perpendicular,
five times every minute. This weight was put on by way of experiment, and does by no means
indicate the full power of the engine."'

GOOD-NIGHT.

    Good-night! a word so often said,
      The heedless mind forgets its meaning;
    'Tis only when some heart lies dead
      On which our own was leaning,
    We hear in maddening music roll
    That lost 'good-night' along the soul.

    'Good-night'--in tones that never die
      It peals along the quickening ear;
    And tender gales of memory
      For ever waft it near,
    When stilled the voice--O crush of pain!--
    That ne'er shall breathe 'good-night' again.

    Good-night! it mocks us from the grave--
      It overleaps that strange world's bound
    From whence there flows no backward wave--
      It calls from out the ground,
    On every side, around, above,
    'Good-night,' 'good-night,' to life and love!

    Good-night! Oh, wherefore fades away
      The light that lived in that dear word?
    Why follows that good-night no day?
      Why are our souls so stirred?
    Oh, rather say, dull brain, once more,
    'Good-night!'--thy time of toil is o'er!

    Good-night!--Now cometh gentle sleep,
      And tears that fall like welcome rain.
    Good-night!--Oh, holy, blest, and deep,
      The rest that follows pain.
    How should we reach God's upper light
    If life's long day had no 'good-night?'

                                        O.

ENGLISH INDEPENDENCE.