 To me, however, the
interest never really flagged, for granted that one has a sympathy
with Russia one feels acutely what Mr. WALPOLE is aiming at and how
wonderfully he succeeds. It is not difficult to find faults: to
complain, for instance, that a strong man like Semyonov would not
have taken such elaborate measures to get himself killed; but these
points are trivial in a book which is not to be read so much for its
story as for its idea. And the idea is great.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rollo Johnson was incautious enough to be born the natural son of a peer. This fact caused
just sufficient complications to keep MARY L. PENDERED'S latest story, The Silent Battlefield
(CHAPMAN AND HALL), from any threat of stagnation while she was developing the theme that really
intrigued her. This was the struggle between increasing wealth and early-acquired Socialism
as it arose in the mind of a hero working his way up from poverty to millionairedom, a seat
in the House and the opportunity of hobnobbing with lords, suffragettes and other notables.
When I say that the two sides of the Socialist case are presented with rather uncommon fairness
you may think that is only because my own particular creed is upheld; but really and truly
I was frowning quite as much as purring while the silent battle proceeded, and the end is neutral
enough to bring despair to all true believers. Lest you should suppose the book all made up
of election addresses I hasten to add that, in the quiet and thoughtful way one expects of
the author, the story is a good one, the pictures of a small country town are true to life,
and the characters without exception real creatures of flesh and blood. Remembering the puppets
that so often have been made to represent their country in a political novel, this is saying
more than a little, and if it is true that, among the ladies of the cast, one still finds those
the most attractive who have no pronounced opinions to speak or vote about, no doubt this is
just old prejudice, and, anyway, the book is one that can be heartily commended.

       *       *       *       *       *

The scene of In Happy Valley (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is laid spiritually, if not strictly geographically,
in that part of the continent of America which everybody who has gone to a cinema, hoping against
hope, knows so well. I mean the country where people have "shooting irons" and use them on
the slightest provocation to insist that other people shall carry their hands at an absurd
and wearisome elevation, and all the men wear fringy trousers, and all the women shawls, save
the heroine, who has to be suitably arrayed for the performance of athletic feats. I admit
that I didn't feel quite at home In Happy Valley, because I missed the sheriff and his posse,
and nobody held up the stage-coach; still the young doctor and the school teacher and the ladies
at the mission did their best for me, and I found it a great help to know the language, an
attainment of which I am justifiably a little vain, for not everyone could translate at sight
to "thud" the road or "shoot up" a Christmas party. Mr. JOHN FOX, Junr., has not placed his
largest strawberries--and some of them are quite nice ones--at the top of the basket. His first
story did not attract me as much as others further on, such as, for instance, that excellently
humorous one, "The Angel from Viper," though here and in other places a lady called St. Hilda,
obviously not she of Whitby, confused me a little. I fancy that we were supposed to have made
her acquaintance in some previous book. But my real quarrel with Mr. Fox is that he has only
given walking-on parts to the actors who do best when such tales are told upon the screen--I
mean the horses.

       *       *       *       *       *

When it is granted that books on flying by fliers have at present a peculiar fascination, the
fact still remains that what I will call The Library of Aviation has usually been remarkably
fortunate in its contributors. Cavalry of the Air (SIMPKIN, MARSHALL) is the last flying work
which it has been my good fortune to read, and the only conceivable reason for finding fault
with it is that "FLIGHT COMMANDER" occasionally becomes a little facetious. But when that small
complaint is made I have nothing left except praise. The author was first of all an Observer--or,
as he calls it, a "Shock Absorber"--in France, and he describes his life so that we groundlings
may understand and sympathise with every phase of it. Especially I like the way in which he
pays tribute to the infantry. In the second part of his book he tells us of his training as
a pilot; and here he gives information which deserves to be most thoroughly studied. The illustrations
by Mr. GEOFFREY WATSON add to the charm of this attractive volume. Of another contribution
to the literature of the air which lies before me I cannot speak so well. Lieut.-Colonel CURTIES
has an inventive mind, and in Blake of the R.F.C. (SKEFFINGTON) he uses it unsparingly. But
although I am ready to believe almost anything in a book of this kind, I am bound to confess
that I found myself bewildered by this breathless romance. Indeed the pace is so hot at the
outset that even the author seems to have lost control of it. If, however, you are craving
for excitement you will find it here. The scene is laid in Cairo, and we all know that funny
things happen in that city. Not the least funny thing that happened to the characters in this
story was the careless ease with which they drank whisky-and-soda. But this--let me warn you--happened
nearly two years ago.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNIQUE EXPLOIT OF A LADY-VOTER.

    "I felt a very proud woman when I walked into the ballot-box, for
    the first time, and cast my vote. And it took me 4-1/2 hours to
    get there and back."--Local Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *