 He therefore cultivates flippancy
as a fine art, and becomes noted for a certain cheap cynicism, which he sprinkles like a quasi-intellectual
pepper over the strong meat of risky conversation. Moreover, he is constantly self-satisfied,
and self-possessed. Yet he manages to avoid giving offence by occasionally assuming a gentle
humility of manner, to which he almost succeeds in imparting a natural air, and he studiously
refrains from saying or doing anything which, since it may cause other men to provoke him,
may possibly result in his being forced to pretend that he himself has been ruffled. Yet it
must be added that he is always thoroughly harmless. He flutters about innumerable dovecots,
without ever fluttering those who dwell in them, and, in course of time, he comes to be known
and accepted everywhere as a useful man. As might be supposed, he is never obtrusively manly.
The rough pursuits of the merely athletic repel him, yet he has the knack of assuming an interest
where he feels it not, and is able to prattle quite pleasantly about sports in which he takes
little or no active part. At the same time it must be admitted that he holds a gun fairly straight,
and does not disgrace himself when the necessity of slaughtering a friend's pheasants interrupts
for a few hours the rehearsals of private theatricals, in company with the friend's wife. Certainly
he is not a fool. He gauges with great accuracy his own capacities, and carefully limits his
ambition to those smaller desires which, since they exact no vaulting power, are never likely
to bring about a fall on the other side. The objects of his admiration are mean; and since
he meanly admires them, he comes quite naturally under the Thackerayan definition of a Snob.

Whilst he is still a year or two on the fair side of thirty, it may happen that a turn of the
political wheel will bring into high office a statesman who is quite willing to be served by
those who are able to make themselves useful to him, without exacting from them solidity either
of character or of attainments. With him the Servant of Society, with an instinct that does
credit to his discernment, will have established friendly relations. The politician was first
amused and then impressed by his versatility; now, having the opportunity, he offers to him
the position of Assistant Private Secretary (unpaid), and it is scarcely necessary to say that
the young man accepts it with a gratitude which proves that he believes his patron capable
of conferring further favours. From this time forward he begins to abandon the merely frivolous
air that has hitherto distinguished him. He lays in a mixed stock of solemnity, mystery, and
importance, and occasionally awes the friends of his flippant days by assuming the reticent
look and the shake of the head of one who is marked off from common mortals by the possession
of secrets the revelation of which might, perhaps, imperil the peace of the world. In country-houses,
in London drawing-rooms, and at Clubs, where he had hitherto been mentioned with a laugh as
"Little So-and-So," he comes to be talked of as "So-and-So--of course you know him--Lord BLANK'S
Private Secretary." Thus he becomes quite a personage. But he is far from abandoning the rôle
of Servant of Society. Indeed, he only enlarges and glorifies the scope of his ministrations,
without in any way ceasing to cultivate those smaller trifles which stood him in such good
stead at the outset of his career. He now has the satisfaction of seeing many of those who
desire anything that a Cabinet Minister can give, cringing to one whom they despise, and who
rejoices in the knowledge that he can afford to patronise them, and perhaps crush them by obtaining
for them that which they want.

When, in the course of a few years, Lord BLANK'S party ceases to direct the government of the
country, his Assistant Private Secretary follows him into the cold shade of adversity and opposition,
and stands by him with exemplary usefulness and fidelity. But, though he is often pressed,
he never contests a constituency, feeling, perhaps, that it is impossible to serve both Society
and the Caucus. In time his name becomes the common property of all Society journals--his biography
is published in one, his discreet service is extolled in another, while a third goes so far
as to hint that, if the truth were known, it would be found that the various departments of
the State could not possibly carry on their affairs without his enlightened counsel. He adopts
an antique fashion of dress, in order to emphasise his personality. He wears a stock, and a
very wide-brimmed hat, and carries a bunch of seals dangling from a fob.

At forty-five he marries the daughter of a powerful Peer, and, shortly afterwards, insures
so much of the favour of Royalty as to be spoken of as a persona grata at Court. Henceforward
his services are often employed in delicate negotiations, which may necessitate the climbing
of many back-stairs. On such occasions, and after it has been announced in the papers that
"Mr. So-and-so was the bearer of an important communication" from one great person to another,
it is his custom to show himself in his Clubs and in crowded haunts, so that he may enjoy the
pleasure of being pointed out, digita prætereuntium, and of catching the whispers of those
who nudge one another as they mention his name.

Finally, it will be rumoured that he has been collecting materials for the Memoirs which he
proposes shortly to publish. But though he never disclaims the intention, and is even understood,
on more than one occasion, to allude in conversation to the precise period of his life to which
his writing has then brought him, it is quite certain that he will never carry out the intention,
or bring out the book. At the age of sixty he will still be a young man, with a gay style of
banter peculiarly his own. Towards the end of his life he will often talk darkly of great events
in which he has played a part, and of extraordinary services which only he could have performed;
and when he dies, the country will be called upon to mourn for one who has saved it from social
degradation, and from political disaster.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PIG IN A POKE.

    [According to the Standard, by the new Meat Inspection Law,
    just come into force in the United States, American cattle
    and pigs for export to England, France, or Germany, are to be
    inspected before leaving America, with a view to removing the
    grounds of objection on the part of those Governments to the
    unrestricted reception of these important American exports.
    Should any foreign Government, fearful of pleuro-pneumonia
    or trichinosis, refuse to trust to the infallibility of the
    American inspectors, the President of the United States is
    authorised to retaliate by directing that such products of
    such foreign State as he may deem proper shall be excluded
    from importation to the United States.]

  O SENATOR EDMONDS, of verdant Vermont,
  Of wisdom you may be a marvellous font;
  But you'll hardly get JOHN,--'tis too much of a joke!--
  To buy in your fashion a Pig in a Poke;
                          Which nobody can expect!

  To slaughter your Cattle when reaching our shore,
  You probably think is no end of a bore;
  But even your valiant Vermonters to please,
  We cannot afford to spread Cattle-disease,
                          Which nobody can desire.

  A Yankee Inspector is all very fine,
  But if pleuro-pneumonia crosses the line,
  And with BULL'S bulls and heifers should play up the deuce,
  A Yankee Inspector won't be of much use,
                          Which nobody can dispute.

  A Yankee Inspector you seem to suppose is
  A buckler and barrier against trichinosis;
  Bat trichinae pass without passports. Bacilli
  And microbes that Yankee might miss willy-nilly,
                          Which nobody can deny.

  Port-slaughter restrictions may limit your trade.
  Well, your Tariffs Protective to help us aren't made,
  And we cannot run dangers to plump up your wealth,
  Until you can show us a clean bill of health,
                          Which nobody can assert.

  And as to that cudgel tucked under your arm,
  You fancy, perhaps, it will act as a charm.
  No, JONATHAN! JOHN to your argument's dull,
  And you will not convince him by cracking his skull,
                          Which nobody can suppose.

  The Gaul and the Teuton seem much of my mind,
  And, despite your new Law, you will probably find
  That Yankee Inspectors, plus menaces big,
  Rehabilitate not the American Pig,
                          Which nobody can affirm.

  No, JONATHAN, JOHNNY feels no animosity,
  He'd like, with yourself, to have true Reciprocity;
  But neither your Law, nor a smart cudgel-stroke,
  Will make him--or them--buy your Pig in a Poke--
                          Which nobody can particularly
                            wonder at, after all; now can
                              they, JONATHAN?

       *       *       *       *       *

"NOMINE MUTATO."--For some weeks there was a considerable amount of correspondence in the Times,
anent "Ecclesiastical Titles," which suddenly disappeared. Was the topic resumed one day last
week under the new heading, "The Symbolical Representation of Ciphers?"

       *       *       *       *       *

LATEST FROM THE LYCEUM.--With a view to supplying the entire world with the current number,
Mr. Punch goes to press at a date too early to permit of a criticism of Ravenswood. So he contents
himself (for the present) by merely recording that at the initial performance on Saturday last
all went as happily ("merrily," with so sombre a plot, is not the word) as a marriage-bell.
There was a striking situation towards the end of the drama which was both novel and interesting.
Mr. IRVING received and deserved a grand reception, and it was generally admitted that amongst
the many admirable impersonations for which MISS ELLEN TERRY is celebrated, her Bride of Lammermoor
appropriately "takes the cake!"

       *       *       *       *       *

MY PRETTY JANE.

(LATEST VERSION.)

    [It is said that the price of wheat and the marriage-rate go
    together, most people getting married when wheat is highest.]

  My pretty JANE, my dearest JANE,
    Ah, never look so shy,
  But meet me, meet me in the market,
    When the price of wheat rules high.
  The glut is waning fast, my love,
    And corn is getting dear;
  Good (Hymen) times are coming, love,
    Ceres our hearts shall cheer.
      Then pretty JANE, though poorish JANE,
        Ah, never pipe your eye,
      But meet me, meet me at the Altar,
        For the price of wheat rules high!

  Yes, name the day, the happy day,
    I can afford the ring;
  For corn rules high, the marriage rate
    Mounts up like anything;
  The "quarter" stands at fifty, love,
    Which, for Mark Lane is dear.
  Our wedding day is coming, love,
    Our married course is clear.
      Then, pretty JANE, if poorish JANE,
        Ah, never look so shy;
      But meet me, meet me at the Altar,
        When the price of wheat rules high!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AN INVOCATION.

(BY A TOWN MOUSE.)

  Come back to Town! Why wander where
    The snow-clad peaks arise?
  Our English sunsets are as fair,
    With red September skies.
  Soft is the matutinal mist
    Through which the trees loom brown;
  Come back, if only to be kist,--
                      Come back to Town!

