A few years before this the leading women in French society showed a nobility of character
and a simplicity in dress worthy of Roman matrons. Of these were Madame Boland and Madame Desmoulins;
but now all was changed. At the head of society stood Madame Tallien and others like her, wild
in extravagance, daily seeking new refinements in luxury, and demanding of their husbands and
lovers vast sums to array them and to feed their whims. If such sums could not be obtained
honestly they must be had dishonestly. The more closely one examines that period, the more
clearly he sees that the pictures, given by Thibaudeau and Challamel and De Goncourt are not
at all exaggerated. [78]

The contrast between these gay creatures of the Directory period and the people at large was
striking. Indeed much as the vast majority of the wealthy classes suffered from impoverishment,
the laboring classes, salaried employees of all sorts, and people of fixed income and of small
means, especially in the cities, underwent yet greater distress. These were found, as a rule,
to subsist mainly on daily government rations of bread at the rate of one pound per person.
This was frequently unfit for food and was distributed to long lines of people, men, women
and children, who were at times obliged to wait their turn even from dawn to dusk. The very
rich could, by various means, especially by bribery, obtain better bread, but only at enormous
cost. In May, 1796, the market price of good bread was, in paper, 80 francs (16 dollars) per
pound and a little later provisions could not be bought for paper money at any price. [79]

And here it may be worth mentioning that there was another financial trouble especially vexatious.
While, as we have seen, such enormous sums, rising from twenty to forty thousand millions of
francs in paper, were put in circulation by the successive governments of the Revolution, enormous
sums had been set afloat in counterfeits by criminals and by the enemies of France. These came
not only from various parts of the French Republic but from nearly all the surrounding nations,
the main source being London. Thence it was that Count Joseph de Puisaye sent off cargoes of
false paper, excellently engraved and printed, through ports in Brittany and other disaffected
parts of France. One seizure by General Hoche was declared by him to exceed in nominal value
ten thousand millions of francs. With the exception of a few of these issues, detection was
exceedingly difficult, even for experts; for the vast majority of the people it was impossible.

Nor was this all. At various times the insurgent royalists in La Vendee and elsewhere put their
presses also in operation, issuing notes bearing the Bourbon arms,--the fleur-de-lis, the portrait
of the Dauphin (as Louis XVII) with the magic legend "De Par le Roi," and large bodies of the
population in the insurgent districts were forced to take these. Even as late as 1799 these
notes continued to appear. [80]

The financial agony was prolonged somewhat by attempts to secure funds by still another "forced
loan," and other discredited measures, but when all was over with paper money, specie began
to reappear--first in sufficient sums to do the small amount of business which remained after
the collapse. Then as the business demand increased, the amount of specie flowed in from the
world at large to meet it and the nation gradually recovered from that long paper-money debauch.

Thibaudeau, a very thoughtful observer, tells us in his Memoirs that great fears were felt
as to a want of circulating medium between the time when paper should go out and coin should
come in; but that no such want was severely felt--that coin came in gradually as it was wanted.
[81]

Nothing could better exemplify the saying of one of the most shrewd of modern statesmen that
"There will always be money." [82]

But though there soon came a degree of prosperity--as compared with the distress during the
paper-money orgy, convalescence was slow. The acute suffering from the wreck and rain brought
by assignats, mandats and other paper currency in process of repudiation lasted nearly ten
years, but the period of recovery lasted longer than the generation which followed. It required
fully forty years to bring capital, industry, commerce and credit up to their condition when
the Revolution began, and demanded a "man on horseback," who established monarchy on the ruins
of the Republic and thew away millions of lives for the Empire, to be added to the millions
which had been sacrificed by the Revolution. [83]

Such, briefly sketched in its leading features, is the history of the most skillful, vigorous
and persistent attempt ever made to substitute for natural laws in finance the ability of legislative
bodies, and, for a standard of value recognized throughout the world, a national standard devised
by theorists and manipulated by schemers. Every other attempt of the same kind in human history,
under whatever circumstances, has reached similar results in kind if not in degree; all of
them show the existence of financial laws as real in their operation as those which hold the
planets in their courses. [84]

I have now presented this history in its chronological order--the order of events: let me,
in conclusion, sum it up, briefly, in its logical order,--the order of cause and effect.

And, first, in the economic department. From the early reluctant and careful issues of paper
we saw, as an immediate result, improvement and activity in business. Then arose the clamor
for more paper money. At first, new issues were made with great difficulty; but, the dyke once
broken, the current of irredeemable currency poured through; and, the breach thus enlarging,
this currency was soon swollen beyond control. It was urged on by speculators for a rise in
values; by demagogues who persuaded the mob that a nation, by its simple fiat, could stamp
real value to any amount upon valueless objects. As a natural consequence a great debtor class
grew rapidly, and this class gave its influence to depreciate more and more the currency in
which its debts were to be paid. [85]

The government now began, and continued by spasms to grind out still more paper; commerce was
at first stimulated by the difference in exchange; but this cause soon ceased to operate, and
commerce, having been stimulated unhealthfully, wasted away.

Manufactures at first received a great impulse; but, ere long, this overproduction and overstimulus
proved as fatal to them as to commerce. From time to time there was a revival of hope caused
by an apparent revival of business; but this revival of business was at last seen to be caused
more and more by the desire of far-seeing and cunning men of affairs to exchange paper money
for objects of permanent value. As to the people at large, the classes living on fixed incomes
and small salaries felt the pressure first, as soon as the purchasing power of their fixed
incomes was reduced. Soon the great class living on wages felt it even more sadly.

Prices of the necessities of life increased: merchants were obliged to increase them, not only
to cover depreciation of their merchandise, but also to cover their risk of loss from fluctuation;
and, while the prices of products thus rose, wages, which had at first gone up, under the general
stimulus, lagged behind. Under the universal doubt and discouragement, commerce and manufactures
were checked or destroyed. As a consequence the demand for labor was diminished; laboring men
were thrown out of employment, and, under the operation of the simplest law of supply and demand,
the price of labor--the daily wages of the laboring class--went down until, at a time when
prices of food, clothing and various articles of consumption were enormous, wages were nearly
as low as at the time preceding the first issue of irredeemable currency.

The mercantile classes at first thought themselves exempt from the general misfortune. They
were delighted at the apparent advance in the value of the goods upon their shelves. But they
soon found that, as they increased prices to cover the inflation of currency and the risk from
fluctuation and uncertainty, purchases became less in amount and payments less sure; a feeling
of insecurity spread throughout the country; enterprise was deadened and stagnation followed.

New issues of paper were then clamored for as more drams are demanded by a drunkard. New issues
only increased the evil; capitalists were all the more reluctant to embark their money on such
a sea of doubt. Workmen of all sorts were more and more thrown out of employment. Issue after
issue of currency came; but no relief resulted save a momentary stimulus, which aggravated
the disease. The most ingenious evasions of natural laws in finance which the most subtle theorists
could contrive were tried--all in vain; the most brilliant substitutes for those laws were
tried; "self-regulating" schemes, "interconverting" schemes--all equally vain. [86] All thoughtful
men had lost confidence. All men were waiting; stagnation became worse and worse. At last came
the collapse and then a return, by a fearful shock, to a state of things which presented something
like certainty of remuneration to capital and labor. Then, and not till then, came the beginning
of a new era of prosperity.

Just as dependent on the law of cause and effect was the moral development. Out of the inflation
of prices grew a speculating class; and, in the complete uncertainty as to the future, all
business became a game of chance, and all business men, gamblers. In city centers came a quick
growth of stock-jobbers and speculators; and these set a debasing fashion in business which
spread to the remotest parts of the country. Instead of satisfaction with legitimate profits,
came a passion for inordinate gains. Then, too, as values became more and more uncertain, there
was no longer any motive for care or economy, but every motive for immediate expenditure and
present enjoyment. So came upon the nation the obliteration of thrift. In this mania for yielding
to present enjoyment rather than providing for future comfort were the seeds of new growths
of wretchedness: luxury, senseless and extravagant, set in: this, too, spread as a fashion.
To feed it, there came cheatery in the nation at large and corruption among officials and persons
holding trusts. While men set such fashions in private and official business, women set fashions
of extravagance in dress and living that added to the incentives to corruption. Faith in moral
considerations, or even in good impulses, yielded to general distrust. National honor was thought
a fiction cherished only by hypocrites. Patriotism was eaten out by cynicism.

Thus was the history of France logically developed in obedience to natural laws; such has,
to a greater or less degree, always been the result of irredeemable paper, created according
to the whim or interest of legislative assemblies rather than based upon standards of value
permanent in their nature and agreed upon throughout the entire world. Such, we may fairly
expect, will always be the result of them until the fiat of the Almighty shall evolve laws
in the universe radically different from those which at present obtain. [87]

And, finally, as to the general development of the theory and practice which all this history
records: my subject has been Fiat Money in France; How it came; What it brought; and How it ended.

It came by seeking a remedy for a comparatively small evil in an evil infinitely more dangerous.
To cure a disease temporary in its character, a corrosive poison was administered, which ate
out the vitals of French prosperity.

It progressed according to a law in social physics which we may call the "law of accelerating
issue and depreciation." It was comparatively easy to refrain from the first issue; it was
exceedingly difficult to refrain from the second; to refrain from the third and those following
was practically impossible.

It brought, as we have seen, commerce and manufactures, the mercantile interest, the agricultural
interest, to ruin. It brought on these the same destruction which would come to a Hollander
opening the dykes of the sea to irrigate his garden in a dry summer.

It ended in the complete financial, moral and political prostration of France-a prostration
from which only a Napoleon could raise it.

But this history would be incomplete without a brief sequel, showing how that great genius
profited by all his experience. When Bonaparte took the consulship the condition of fiscal
affairs was appalling. The government was bankrupt; an immense debt was unpaid. The further
collection of taxes seemed impossible; the assessments were in hopeless confusion. War was
going on in the East, on the Rhine, and in Italy, and civil war, in La Vendée. All the armies
had long been unpaid, and the largest loan that could for the moment be effected was for a
sum hardly meeting the expenses of the government for a single day. At the first cabinet council
Bonaparte was asked what he intended to do. He replied, "I will pay cash or pay nothing." From
this time he conducted all his operations on this basis. He arranged the assessments, funded
the debt, and made payments in cash; and from this time--during all the campaigns of Marengo,
Austerlitz, Jena, Eylau, Friedland, down to the Peace of Tilsit in 1807--there was but one
suspension of specie payment, and this only for a few days. When the first great European coalition
was formed against the Empire, Napoleon was hard pressed financially, and it was proposed to
resort to paper money; but he wrote to his minister, "While I live I will never resort to irredeemable
paper." He never did, and France, under this determination, commanded all the gold she needed.
When Waterloo came, with the invasion of the Allies, with war on her own soil, with a change
of dynasty, and with heavy expenses for war and indemnities, France, on a specie basis, experienced
no severe financial distress.

If we glance at the financial history of France during the Franco-Prussian War and the Communist
struggle, in which a far more serious pressure was brought upon French finances than our own
recent Civil War put upon American finance, and yet with no national stagnation or distress,
but with a steady progress in prosperity, we shall see still more clearly the advantage of
meeting a financial crisis in an honest and straightforward way, and by methods sanctioned
by the world's most costly experience, rather than by yielding to dreamers, theorists, phrase-mongers,
declaimers, schemers, speculators or to that sort of, "Reform" which is "the last refuge of
a scoundrel." [88]

There is a lesson in all this which it behooves every thinking man to ponder.

NOTES

Note: The White Collection at the Cornell University library mentioned in many of the following
notes is described here:

http://rmc.library.cornell.edu/collections/subjects/frrev.html

THE BANK OF NEW YORK, established in 1784, was the only Bank in existence in the city of New
York at the time of the French experiment with fiat money.

THE BANK OF NEW YORK AND TRUST COMPANY, which celebrates its one-hundred and fiftieth anniversary
in March, 1934, considers it a privilege to be able to distribute some copies of this scholarly
article of the late Andrew D. White. The article emphasizes the fact that the use of fiat money
in France was in its beginning a sincere effort on the part of intelligent members of the National
Assembly to stem the tide of misery and wretchedness which had brought about the Revolution
in 1789. But the article also shows clearly that once started on a small scale, it became utterly
impossible to control the currency inflation and that after some slight indications of improvement
in conditions, the situation went from bad to worse. In the long run, those most injured were
the people whom it was most desired to help--the laborer, the wage earner and those whose incomes
from previous savings were smallest.

ANDREW D. WHITE had a long and distinguished career as educator, historian, economist and diplomat;
his description of the events in France that followed the experiment with fiat money is intensely
interesting and well Worth the attention of every thinking person in the United States of 1933.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: A paper read before a meeting of Senators and Members of the House of Representatives
of both political parties, at Washington, April 12th, and before the Union League Club, at
New York, April 13th, 1876, and now (1914) revised and extended.]

[Footnote 2: For proof that the financial situation of France at that time was by no means
hopeless, see Storch, "Economie Politique," vol. iv, p. 159.]

[Footnote 3: See Moniteur, sitting of April 10, 1790.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., sitting of April 15, 1790.]

[Footnote 5: For details of this struggle, see Buchez and Roux, "Histoire Parlementaire de
la Révolution Française," vol. iii, pp. 364, 365, 404. For the wild utterances of Marat throughout
this whole history, see the full set of his "L'ami du peuple" in the President White Collection
of the Cornell University. For Bergasse's pamphlet and a mass of similar publications, see
the same collection. 6. Levasseur (vol. 1, p. 120), a very strong conservative in such estimates,
sets the total value of church property at two thousand millions; other authorities put it
as high as twice that sum. See especially Taine, liv. ii, ch. I., who gives the valuation as
"about four milliards." Sybel, "Gesch. der Revolutionszeit," gives it as two milliards and
Briand, "La séparation" &c., agrees with him. See also De Nerve, "Finances Françaises," vol.
ii, pp. 236-240; also Alison, "History of Europe," vol. i.]

[Footnote 6: For striking pictures of this feeling among the younger generation of Frenchmen,
see Challamel, "Sur la Révolution," p. 305. For general history of John Law's paper money,
see Henri Martin, "Histoire de France"; also Blanqui, "Histoire de l'économie politique," vol.
ii, pp. 65-87; also Senior on "Paper Money," sec. iii, Pt. I, also Thiers, "Histoire de Law";
also Levasseur, op. cit. Liv. i., chap. VI. Several specimens of John Law's paper currency
are to be found in the White Collection in the Library of Cornell University,--some, numbered
with enormous figures.]

[Footnote 7: See Buchez and Roux, "Histoire Parlementaire," vol. v, p. 321, et seq. For an
argument to prove that the assignats were, after all, not so well secured as John Law's money,
see Storch, "Economie Politique," vol. iv, p. 160.]

[Footnote 8: For specimens of this first issue and of nearly every other issue during the French
Revolution, see the extensive collection of originals in the Cornell University Library. For
a virtually complete collection of photographic copies, see Dewamin, "Cent ans de numismatique
française," vol. i, passim.]

[Footnote 9: See "Addresse de l'Assemblée nationals sur lea emissions d'assignats monnaies," p. 5.]

[Footnote 10: Ibid., p. 10.]

[Footnote 11: For Sarot, see "Lettre de M. Sarot," Paris, April 19, 1790. As to the sermon
referred to see Levasseur as above, vol. i, p. 136.]

[Footnote 12: Von Sybel, "History of the French Revolution," vol. i, p. 252; also Levasseur,
as above, pp. 137 and following.]

