"But suppose he was your own thief," she urged; "took your own things, I mean," she hastily
amended, "and suppose he turned out to be--some one you knew and liked--" She hesitated. She
had come at last to what she really wanted to say. She had brought out a question that had
been teasing her fancy at intervals all the while he had been talking, and he hadn't even heard
it. He wasn't even looking at her. She had caught him off his guard. He was looking across
her shoulder straight down the dim vista of the room to the little blaze of bordering light.
He was looking at Harry. No, Harry was looking at him. Harry was looking with a steady, an
intent gaze, and Kerr meeting it--it might have been merely the blank glare of his monocle--seemed,
to Flora, to meet it a little insolently. She fancied in the instant something to pass between
the two men, something which, this time, she did not mistake for jealousy--a shade too dim
for defiance or suspicion, a deep scrutiny that struggled to place something, some one.

Flora felt a sudden wish to break that curious scrutiny. It had broken her little moment. It
had shattered the personal, almost intimate note that had been sounded between them. The look
Kerr turned back to her was vague, and stirred in her a dim resentment that he could drop it
all so easily.

"Shall we join the others?" It was the voice with which she had begun with him, but her eyes
were hot through their light mist of lashes, and he threw her a comprehending glance of amusement.

"Oh, no," he assured her, "we can't help ourselves. They are going to join us."

Ella Buller, in the van of her procession, was already descending upon them. Her approach dissipated
the last remnant of their personal moment. Her presence always insisted that there was nothing
worth while but instant participation in her geniality, and whatever subject it might at the
moment be taken up with. This conviction of Ella's had been wont to overawe Flora, and it still
overwhelmed her; so that now, as she followed in the tail of Ella's marshaled force, she had
a guilty feeling that there should be nothing in her mind but a normal desire for supper.

Yet all the way down the great stair, "the Corridors of Time," where the white owl glared his
glassy wisdom on the passings and counter-passings, she was haunted with the thought that Harry
had seen the extraordinary Kerr before; not shaken hands with him, perhaps--perhaps not even
heard his name; but somewhere, across some distance, once glimpsed him, and had never quite
shaken the memory from his mind. For there was something marked, notable, unforgettable in
that lean distinctiveness. Against the sleek form of the men they met and shook hands with,
he flashed out--seemed in contrast fairly electric. She saw him, just ahead of her where the
crowd was thickening in the door of the supper-room, making way for Clara through the press
with that exasperating solicitude of his that was half ironic. And the large broadside offered
by her elegant Harry, matter-of-factly towing Ella by the elbow, herself conscious of a curl
or two awry, and Judge Buller tramping heavily at her side, all took on to her the aspect of
a well-chosen peep-show with the satanic Kerr officiating as showman. Even the smooth and pallid
Clara, who usually coerced by her sheer correctness, failed to dominate this fantastic image;
rather, she took on, as she was handed into the supper-room, the aspect of his chief exhibit.

The room, hot, polished, flaring reflections of electric lights from its glistening floor,
announced itself the heart of high festivity, through the midst of which their entrance made
an added ripple. The flushed faces of the women under their flowers, under their pale-tinted
hats, with their smiling recognitions to Clara, to Flora, to Ella, smiled with a sharpened
interest. It proclaimed that Kerr was a stranger, and, in a circle which found itself a little
stale for lack of innovations, a desirable one. Exclamatory greetings, running into skirmishes
of talk, here and there halted their progress, and even after they had settled about their
table in the center of the room the attention of one and another was drawn over the shoulder
to some special, trans-table recognition.

Apparently the dominant note of their party was Ella's clamorous selection for the supper;
but to Flora the more real thing was the atmosphere of excitement and mystery she had been
moving in all the evening. She was pursued by the obsession of something more about to happen--something
imminent--though, of course, nothing would; at least, how could anything happen here, to them?
And by "them," she meant herself and these people around her so stupidly talking--the eternal
repetition of the story she had read out that evening to Clara, and not one glimmer of light!
She wondered if her obsession was all her own--or did it reach to one of them? Certainly not
Ella; not Judge Buller, settled into his collar, choosing champagnes. Clara? She had to skip
Clara. One never knew whether Clara had not more behind her smooth prettiness than ever she
brought to light. Kerr? Perhaps. With him she felt potentialities enormous. Harry? Never. Harry
was being appealed to by all the women who could get at him as to his part in the affair--what
had been his sensations and emotions? But Flora knew perfectly well he had had none. He was
only oppressed by the attention his fame in the matter, and the central position of their table,
brought upon him. Protesting, he made his part as small as possible.

"Oh, confound it, if I can't get at my oysters!" he complained, leaning back into his group
again with a sigh.

"You divide the honors with the mysterious unknown, eh?" Kerr inquired across the table.

"Hang it, there's no division! I'd offer you a share!" Harry laughed, and it occurred to Flora
how much Kerr could have made of it.

"Purdie'd like to share something," Buller vouchsafed. "He's been pawing the air ever since
Crew cabled, and this has blown him up completely."

"Crew?" Flora wondered. Here was something more happening. Crew? She had not heard that name
before. It made a stir among them all; but if Kerr looked sharp, Clara looked sharper. She
looked at Harry and Harry was vexed.

"Who's Crew?" said Ella; and the judge looked around on the silence.

"Why, bless my soul, isn't it--Oh, anyway, it will all be out to-morrow. But I thought Harry'd
told you. The Chatworth ring wasn't Bessie's."

It had the effect of startling them all apart, and then drawing them closer together again
around the table over the uncorked bottles.

"Why," Judge Buller went on, "this ring is a celebrated thing. It's the 'Crew Idol'!" He threw
the name out as if that in itself explained everything, but the three women, at least, were blank.

"Why celebrated?" Clara objected. "The stones were only sapphires."

Kerr smiled at this measure of fame.

"Quite so," he nodded to her, "but there are several sorts of value about that ring. Its age,
for one."

He had the attention of the table, as if they sensed behind his words more even than Judge
Buller could have told them.

"And then the superstition about it. It's rather a pretty tale," said Kerr, looking at Flora.
"You've seen the ring--a figure of Vishnu bent backward into a circle, with a head of sapphire;
two yellow stones for the cheeks and the brain of him of the one blue. Just as a piece of carving
it is so fine that Cellini couldn't have equaled it, but no one knows when or where it was
made. The first that is known, the Shah Jehan had it in his treasure-house. The story is he
stole it, but, however that may be, he gave it as a betrothal gift to his wife--possibly the
most beautiful"--his eyebrows signaled to Flora his uncertainty of that fact--"without doubt
the best-loved woman in the world. When she died it was buried with her--not in the tomb itself,
but in the Taj Mehal; and for a century or so it lay there and gathered legends about it as
thick as dust. It was believed to be a talisman of good fortune--especially in love.

"It had age; it had intrinsic value; it had beauty, and that one other quality no man can resist--it
was the only thing of its kind in the world. At all events, it was too much for old Neville
Crew, when he saw it there some couple of hundred years ago. When he left India the ring went
with him. He never told how he got it, but lucky marriages came with it, and the Crews would
not take the House of Lords for it. Their women have worn it ever since."

For a moment the wonder of the tale and the curious spark of excitement it had produced in
the teller kept the listeners silent. Clara was the first to return to facts. "Then Bessie--"
she prompted eagerly.

Kerr turned his glass in meditative fingers. "She wore it as young Chatworth's wife." He held
them all in an increasing tension, as if he drew them toward him.

"The elder Chatworth, Lord Crew, is a bachelor, but, of course, the ring reverted to him on
Chatworth's death."

"And Lord only knows," the judge broke in, "how it got shipped with Bessie's property. Crew
was out of England at the time. He kept the wires hot about it, and they managed to keep the
fact of what the ring was quiet--but it got out to-day when Purdie found it was gone. You see
he was showing it--and without special permission."

Flora had a bewildered feeling that this judicial summing up of facts wasn't the sort of thing
the evening had led up to. She couldn't see, if this was what it amounted to, why Harry had
changed his mind about telling them at the dinner table. She could not even understand where
this belonged in the march of events in their story, but Clara took it up, clipped it out,
and fitted it into its place.

"Then there will be pressure--enormous pressure, brought to bear to recover it?"

"Oh-o-oh!" Buller drew out the syllable with unctuous relish. "They'll rip the town inside
out. They'll do worse. There'll be a string of detectives across the country--yes, and at intervals
to China--so tight you couldn't step from Kalamazoo to Oshkosh without running into one. The
thing is too big to be covered. The chap who took it will play a lone game; and to do that--Lord
knows there aren't many who could--to do that he'd have to be a--a--"

"Farrell Wand?" Flora flung it out as a challenge among these prosaic people; but the effect
of it was even sharper than she had expected. She fancied she saw them all start; that Harry
squared himself, that Kerr met it as if he swallowed it with almost a facial grimace; that
Judge Buller blinked it hard in the face--the most bothered of the lot. He came at it first
in words.

"Farrell Wand?" He felt it over, as if, like a doubtful coin, it might have rung false. "Now,
what did I know of Farrell Wand?"

"Farrell Wand?" Kerr took it up rapidly. "Why, he was the great Johnnie who went through the
Scotland Yard men at Perth in '94, and got off. Don't you remember? He took a great assortment
of things under the most peculiar circumstances--took the Tilton emeralds off Lady Tilton's
neck at St. James'."

"Why, Harry, you--" Flora began. "You told us that," was what she had meant to say, but Harry
stopped her. Stopped her just with a look, with a nod; but it was as if he had shaken his head
at her. His tawny lashes, half drooped over watching eyes, gave him more than ever the look
of a great, still cat; a domestic, good-humored cat, but in sight of legitimate prey. Her eyes
went back to Kerr with a sense of bewilderment. His voice was still going on, expansively,
brilliantly, juggling his subject.

"He knew them all, the big-wigs up in Parliament, the big-wigs on 'Change, the little duchesses
in Mayfair, and they all liked him, asked him, dined him, and--great Scott, they paid! Paid
in hereditary jewels, or the shock to their decency when the thing came out--but, poor devil,
so did he!"

And through it all Buller gloomed unsmiling, with out-thrust underlip.

"No, no," he said slowly, "that's not my connection with Farrell Wand. What happened afterward?
What did they do with him?"

Kerr was silent, and Flora thought his face seemed suddenly at its sharpest.

It was Clara who answered with another question. "Didn't he get to the colonies? Didn't he
die there?"

Judge Buller caught it with a snap of his fingers. "Got it!" he triumphed, and the two men
turned square upon him. "They ran him to earth in Australia. That was the year I was there--'96.
I got a snapshot of him at the time."

It was now the whole table that turned on him, and Flora felt, with that unanimous movement,
something crucial, the something that she had been waiting for; and yet she could in no way
connect it with what had happened, nor understand why Clara, why Harry, why Kerr above all
should be so alert. For more than all he looked expectant, poised, and ready for whatever was
coming next.

"What sort of a chap?" he mused and fixed the judge a moment with the same stare that Flora
remembered to have first confronted her.

"What sort? Sort of a criminal," the judge smiled. "They all look alike."

"Still," Clara suggested, "such a man could hardly have been ordinary--"

"In the chain-gang--oh, yes," said Buller with conviction.

"Oh! Then the picture wasn't worth anything?"

"Why, no," Buller admitted slowly, "though, come to think of it, it wasn't the chain-gang either.
They were taking him aboard the ship. The crowd was so thick I hardly saw him, and--only got
one shot at him. But the name was a queer one. It stuck in my mind."

"But then," Clara insisted, "what became of him?"

"Oh, gave them the slip," the judge chuckled. "He always did. Reported to have changed ships
in mid-ocean. Hal, is that another bottle?"

Harry stretched his hand for it, but it stayed suspended--and, for an instant, it seemed as
if the whole table waited expectant. Had Buller's camera caught the clear face of Farrell Wand,
or only a dim figure? Flora wondered if that was the question Harry wanted to ask. He wanted--and
yet he hesitated, as if he did not quite dare touch it. He laughed and filled the glasses.
He had dropped his question, and there was no one at the table who seemed ready to put another.

And yet there were questions there, in all the eyes; but some impassable barrier seemed to
have come between these eager people, and what, for incalculable reasons, they so much wanted
to know. It was not the genial indifference with which Buller had dropped the subject for the
approaching bottle. It seemed rather their own timidity that withheld them from touching this
subject which at every turn produced upon some one of the eager three some fresh startling
effect the others could not understand. They were restless; Clara notably, even under her calm.

Flora knew she was not giving up the quest of Farrell Wand, but only setting it aside with
her unfailing thrift, which saved everything. But why, in this case? And Harry, who had been
so merry with the mystery at dinner--why had he suddenly tried to suppress her, to want to
ignore the whole business; why had he hesitated over his question, and finally let it fall?
And why, above all, was Kerr so brilliantly talking at Ella, in the same way he had begun at
Flora herself? Talking at Ella as if he hardly saw her, but like some magician flinging out
a brilliant train of pyrotechnics to hypnotize the senses, before he proceeds with his trick.
And the way Ella was looking at him--her bewildered alacrity, the way she was struggling with
what was being so rapidly shot at her--appeared to Flora the prototype of her own struggle
to understand what reality these appearances around her could possibly shadow. Never before
had her sense of standing on the outside edge of life been so strong. It seemed as though there
were some large, impalpable thing growing in the midst of them, around the edges of which they
were tiptoeing, daringly, fearfully, each one for himself. But though it loomed so large that
she felt herself in the very shadow of it, rub her eyes as she would, she couldn't see it.

Often enough in the crowds she moved among she had felt herself lonely and not wondered at
it. But now and here, sitting among her close, intimate circle, her friends and her lover,
it seemed like a horrible obsession--yet it was true. As clear as if it had been shown her
in a revelation she saw herself absolutely alone.

III

ENCOUNTERS ON PARADE

Flora, before the mirror, gaily stabbing in her long hat-pins, confessed to herself that last
night had been queer, as queer as queer could be; but this morning, luckily, was real again.
Her fancy last night had--yes, she was afraid it really had--run away with her. And she turned
and held the hand-mirror high, to be sure of the line of her tilted hat, gave a touch to the
turn of her wide, close belt, a flirt to the frills of her bodice.

The wind was lightly ruffling and puffing out the muslin curtains of the windows, and from
the garden below came the long, silvery clash of eucalyptus leaves. She leaned on the high
window-ledge to look downward over red roofs, over terraced green, over steep streets running
abruptly to the broken blue of the bay. She tried to fancy how Kerr would look in this morning
sun. He seemed to belong only beneath the high artificial lights, in the thicker atmosphere
of evening. Would he return again, with renewed potency, with the same singular, almost sinister
charm, as a wizard who works his will only by moonlight? When she should see him again, what,
she wondered, would be his extraordinary mood? On what new breathless flights might he not
take her--or would he see her at all? It was too fantastic. The sunlight thinned him to an
impalpable ghost.

It was Clara, standing at the foot of the stairs, who belonged to the morning, so brisk, so
fresh, so practical she appeared. She held a book in her hand. The door, open for her immediate
departure, showed, beyond the descent of marble steps, the landau glistening black against
white pavements. It was unusual for this formal vehicle to put in an appearance so early.

"I am going to drive over to the Purdies'," Clara explained. "I have an errand there."

Flora smiled at the thought of how many persons would be having errands to the Purdies' now.
It was refreshing to catch Clara in this weakness. She felt a throb of it herself when she
recalled the breathless moment at the supper table last evening. "Oh, that will be a heavenly
drive," she said. "Please ask me to go with you. My errand can wait."

"Why, certainly. I should like to have you," said Clara. But if she had returned a flat "no,"
Flora would not have had a dryer sense of unwelcome. Still, she had gone too far to retreat.
After all, this was only Clara's manner, and her buoyant interest in the expedition was stronger
than her diffidence.

Mischievous reflections of the doctrine the Englishman had startled her with the night before
flickered in her mind, as they drove from the door. Was this part of "the big red game," not
being accommodating, nor so very polite? The streets were still wet with early fog, and, turning
in at the Presidio gate, the cypresses dripped dankly on their heads, and hung out cobwebs
pearled with dew. She was sure, even under their dripping, that the "damnable dust" was alive.

Down the broad slopes that were swept by the drive all was green to the water's edge. The long
line of barracks, the officers' quarters, the great parade-ground, set in the flat land between
hills and bay, looked like a child's toy, pretty and little. They heard the note of a bugle,
thin and silver clear, and they could see the tiny figures mustering; but in her preoccupation
it did not occur to Flora that they were arriving just in time for parade. But when the carriage
had crossed the viaduct, and swung them past the acacias, and around the last white curve into
the white dust of the parade-ground, Clara turned, as if with a fresh idea.

"Wouldn't you like to stop and watch it?"

"Why, yes," Flora assented. The brilliance of light and color, the precision of movement, the
sound of the brasses under the open sky were an intermezzo in harmony with her spirited mood.

The carriage stopped under the scanty shadow of trees that bordered the walk to the officers'
quarters. Clara, book in hand, alertly rose.

"I'll just run up to the Purdies' and leave this," she said.

"Then she really did want to be rid of me," Flora mused, as she watched the brisk back moving
away; "and how beautifully she has done it!" Her eyes followed Clara's little figure retreating
up the neat and narrow board walk, to where it disappeared in overarching depths of eucalyptus
trees. Further on, beyond the trees, two figures, smaller than Clara's in their greater distance,
were coming down. Flora almost grinned as she recognized the large linen umbrella that Mrs.
Purdie invariably carried when abroad in the reservation, and presently the trim and bounding
figure of Mrs. Purdie herself, under it. The Purdies were coming down to parade--at least Mrs.
Purdie was. But the tall figure beside her--that was not the major. She took up her lorgnon.
It was--no it could not be--yet surely it was Harry! Lazy Harry, up and out, and squiring Mrs.
Purdie to the review at half-past ten in the morning! "Are we all mad?" Flora thought.

The three little figures, the one going up, the two coming down, touched opposite fringes of
the grove--disappeared within it. On which side would they come out together? Flora wondered.
They emerged on her side with Harry a little in advance. He came swingingly down the walk,
straight toward her, and across the road to the carriage, his hat lifted, his hand out.

"Well, Flora," he said, "this is luck!"

"What in the world has got you out so early?" she rallied him.

"Came out to see Purdie on business, and here you are all ready to drive me back."

"That's your reward."

He brushed his handkerchief over his damp forehead. "Well, there's one coming to me, for I
haven't found Purdie."

Her eyes were dancing with mischief. "Harry, I believe you're out here about the Crew Idol, too!"

He shook his head at her, smiling. "I wouldn't talk too much about that, Flora. It flicks poor
Purdie on the raw every time that--" His sentence trailed off into something else, for Mrs.
Purdie and Clara had come up.

The book had changed hands, together, evidently, with several explanations, and Mrs. Purdie,
with her foot on the carriage step, was ready to make one of these over again.

"The major'll be so sorry. He's gone in town. It's so unusual for him to get off at this hour,
but he said he had to catch a man. As Mrs. Britton and I were saying, he's likely to be very
busy until this dreadful affair is straightened out. If you can only wait a little longer,
Mr. Cressy," she went on, "I am expecting him every moment."

"Oh, it's of no importance," said Harry, but he looked at his watch with a fold between his
brows, and then at the car that was coming in.

"Well, at least, you'll have time to see the parade," said Mrs. Purdie. "I always think it's
a pretty sight, though most of the women get tired of it."

Clara's face showed that she belonged to the latter class; but Flora, too keenly attuned to
sounds and sights not to be swayed by outward circumstances, was content for the time to watch,
in the cloud of dust, the wheeling platoons and rhythmic columns.

Yet through all--even when she was not looking at him--she was aware of Harry's restlessness,
of his impatience; and as the last company swung barrackward, and the cloud began to settle
over the empty field, he snapped his watch-case smartly, and remarked, "Still no major."

"Why, there he is now!" Mrs. Purdie screamed, pointing across the parade-ground.

Flora looked. Half-way down on the adjoining side of the parallelogram, back toward her, the
redoubtable Kerr was standing. She recognized him on the instant, as if he were the most familiar
figure in her life. Yet she was more surprised to see him here than she had been to see Harry.
She felt inclined to rub her eyes. It took a moment for her to realize that his companion was
indeed Major Purdie.

The major had recognized his wife's signaling umbrella. Now he turned toward it, but Kerr,
with a quick motion of hand toward hat, turned in the opposite direction. In her mind Flora
was with the major who ran after him. The two men stood for a little, expostulating. Then both
walked toward the landau and the linen umbrella.

The carriage group waited, watching with flagging conversation, which finally fell into silence.
But the two approaching strolled easily and talked. Even in cold daylight Kerr still gave Flora
the impression that the open was not big enough to hold him, but she saw a difference in his
mood, a graver eye, a colder mouth, and when he finally greeted them, a manner that was brusk.
It showed uncivil beside the major's urbanity.

The major was glad, very glad, to see them all. He was evidently also a little flurried. He
seemed to know that they had all met Kerr before. Had it been at the moment of his attempted
departure that Kerr had told him, Flora wondered? And had he given them as his excuse for going
away? It hurt her; though why should she be hurt because a stranger had not wanted to cross
the parade-ground to shake hands with her? He was less interested in her than he was in Harry,
at whom he had looked keenly.

But Harry's nervousness had left him, now that Purdie was within his reach. He returned the
glance indifferently. He stood close to the major--his hand on his shoulder. The major, with
his bland blue eyes twinkling from Clara to Flora, seemed the only man ready to devote himself
to the service of the ladies.

"And what's the news from the front?" said Clara gaily. Kerr gave her a rapid glance; but the
major blinked as if the allusion had got by him.

"I mean the mystery--the Chatworth ring," she explained. However lightly and sweetly Clara
said it, it was a little brazen to fling such a question at poor Purdie, whose responsibility
the ring had been.

He received it amicably enough, but conclusively. "No news whatever, my dear Mrs. Britton."

She smiled. "We're all rather interested in the mystery. Flora has made a dozen romances about it."

"Oh, yes, yes," said the major indulgently. "It will do for young ladies to make romances about.
It'll be a two days' wonder, and then you'll suddenly find out it's something very tame indeed."

"Why, have they fixed the suspicion?" said Clara.

There was a restless movement from Kerr.

"No, no, nothing of that sort," said the major quickly.

Harry passed his hand through his arm. "May I see you for five minutes, Major?"

The excellent major looked harassed.

"Suppose we all step up to the house," he suggested. "Why, you're not going, man?" he objected,
for Kerr had fallen back a step, and, with lifted hat and balanced cane, was signaling his
farewells.

"Do let us go up to the house," said Clara. "And Mrs. Purdie, won't you drive up with me? Flora
wants to walk."

Flora stood up. She had a confused impression that she had expressed no such desire, and that
there was room for three in the landau; but the mental shove that Clara had administered gave
her an impetus that carried her out of the carriage before she realized what she was about.
Some one had offered a hand to help her, and when she was on the ground she saw it was Kerr,
who had come back and was standing beside her. He was smiling quizzically.

"I feel rather like walking, myself," he said. "Do you want a companion?"

She turned to him with gratitude. "I should be glad of one," she said quickly. She was touched.
She had not thought he could be so gentle.

Harry was already moving off up the board walk with the major. The carriage was turning. Kerr
looked at the backs of the two women being driven away, and then at Flora. "Very good," he
said, raising her parasol; "you are the deposed heir, and I am your faithful servant."

"But indeed I do want to walk," she protested, a little shy at the way he read her case.

"But you didn't think of it until she gave you the suggestion, eh?" he quizzed.

"She probably had something to say to Mrs. Purdie that--"

"My dear child," he caught her up earnestly, "don't think I'm criticizing your friend's motive.
I am only saying I saw something done that was not pretty, though really, if you will forgive
me--it was very funny."

Flora smiled ruefully. "It must have been--absurd. I am afraid I often am. But what else could
I have done?"

He seemed to ponder a moment. "I fancy you couldn't have done anything different. That's why
I came back for you," he volunteered gaily.

The casual words seemed in her ears fraught with deeper meaning. Her cheeks were hot behind
her thin veil. They were strolling slowly up the board walk, and for a moment she could not
look at him. She could only listen to the flutter of the fringes of the parasol carried above
her head. She felt herself small and stupid. She could not understand what he could see in
her to come back to. Then she gave a side glance at him. She saw an unsmiling profile. The
lines in his face were indeed extraordinary, but none was hard. She liked that wonderful mobility
that had survived the batterings of experience.

As if he were conscious of her eyes, he looked down and smiled; but vaguely. He did not speak;
and she was aware that it was at her appearance he had smiled, as if that only reached him
through his preoccupation and pleased him. And since he seemed content with this vague looking,
she was content to move beside him silent, a mere image of youth and--since he liked it--of
prettiness, with a fleeting color and a gust of little curls blowing out under a fluttering veil.

But what was he thinking about so seriously between those smiling glances? Not her problem,
she was sure.

Yet he had stayed for her when he had not meant to stay. He had been anxious to get away since
he had first sighted them. Surely he must like her more than he disliked some other member
of her party. Or had he simply reached forth out of his kindness to rescue her, as he might
have rescued a blind kitten that he pitied? "No," he had said, "you could not have done anything
different."

They had almost reached the major's gate, and it was now or never to find out what he thought
of her. She looked up at him suddenly, with inquiring eyes.

"Do you think I am weak?" she demanded.

The lines of his face broke up into laughter. "No," he said, "I think you are misplaced."

She knitted her brows in perplexity, but his hand was on the white picket gate, and she had
to walk through it ahead of him as he set it open for her.

Of their party only the two women were in sight waiting on the diminutive veranda. Clara had
a mild domestic appearance, rocking there behind the potted geraniums. All the windows were
open into the little shell of a house. Trunks still stood in the hall, though the Purdies had
been quartered at the Presidio for nine months. From the rear of the house came the sound of
bowl and chopper, where the Chinese cook was preparing luncheon, and the major's man appeared,
walking around the garden to the veranda, with a cluster of mint juleps on a copper tray.

In this easy atmosphere, how was it that the thread of restraint ran so sharply defined? Clara
and Mrs. Purdie were matching crewels; and, sitting on the top step Flora instructed Kerr as
to the composition of the tropical glacier they were drinking. Ten girls had probably so instructed
him before, but it would do to fill up the gap. It was so, Flora thought, they were all feeling.
Even the carriage, driving slowly round and round the rectangle of officers' row, added its
note of restlessness.

Like a stone plumped into a pool the major and Harry reëntered this stagnation. They were brisk
and buoyant. Harry, especially, had the air of a man who sees stimulating business before him.
Immediately all talked at once.

"Now that we've got you here, you must all stay to luncheon," Mrs. Purdie determined.

It looked as if they were about to accept her invitation unanimously, but Harry demurred. He
had to be at Montgomery Street and Jackson by one o'clock. "I hoped," he added, glancing at
Flora, "that some one was to drive me--part of the way, at least."

Flora, with an unruly sense of disappointment, yet opened her lips for the courteous answer.
But Clara was quicker. She rose.

"Yes," she said, "I'll drive you back with pleasure."

Harry's glimmer of annoyance was comic.

"I have to be at the house for luncheon," Clara explained to her hostess as she buttoned her
glove, "but there is no reason why Flora shouldn't stay."

"Oh, I should love to," Flora murmured, not knowing whether she was more embarrassed or pleased
at this high-handed dispensation which placed her where she wanted to be.

But the way Clara had leaped at her opportunity! Flora looked curiously at Harry.

He seemed uneasy at being pounced upon, but that might be merely because he was balked of a
tête-à-tête with herself. For while Clara went on to the gate with their hostess he lingered
a moment with Flora.

"May I see you to-night?"

"All you have to do is to come."

She gave him an oblique, upward glance, and had a pleasant sense of power in seeing his face
relax and smile. She had a dance for that evening; but she thrust it aside without regret.
For suppose Harry should have something to tell her about the Chatworth ring? She wondered
if Clara would get it out of him first on the way home.

The four left on the veranda watched the two driving away with a sudden clearing of the social
atmosphere. In vain Flora told herself it was only the relief she always felt in getting free
of Clara. For in the return of the major's elderly blandishments, in Kerr's kindlier mood,
as well as in her own lightened spirits, she had the proofs that, with them all, some tension
had relaxed. It seemed to her as if those two, departing, were bearing away between them the
very mystery of the Crew Idol.

IV

FLOWERS BY THE WAY

Flora liked this funny little dining-room with walls as frail as box-boards, low-ceiled and
flooded with sun. It recalled surroundings she had known later than the mining camp, but long
before the great red house. It seemed to her that she fitted here better than the Purdies.
She looked across at Kerr, sitting opposite, to see if perhaps he fitted too. But he was foreign,
decidedly. He kept about him still the hint of delicate masquerade that she had noticed the
night before. Out of doors, alone with her, he had lost it. For a moment he had been absolutely
off his guard. And even now he was more off his guard than he had been last night. She was
surprised to see him so unstudied, so uncritical, so humorously anecdotal. If she and the major,
between them, had dragged him into this against his will he did not show it. She rose from
the table with the feeling that in an hour all three of them had become quite old friends of
his, though without knowing anything further about him.

"We must do this again," Mrs. Purdie said, as they parted from her in the garden.

"Surely we will," Kerr answered her.

But Flora had the feeling that they never, never would. For him it had been a chance touching
on a strange shore.

But at least they were going away together. They would walk together as far as the little car,
whose terminal was the edge of the parade-ground. But just outside of the gate he stopped.

"Do you especially like board walks?" he asked.

It was an instant before she took his meaning. Then she laughed. "No. I like green paths."

He waved with his cane. "There is a path yonder, that goes over a bridge, and beyond that a hill."

"And at the top of that another car," Flora reminded him.

"Ah well," he said, "there are flowers on the way, at least." He looked at her whimsically.
"There are three purple irises under the bridge. I noticed them as I came down."

She was pleased that he had noticed that for himself--pleased, too, that he had suggested the
longer way.

The narrow path that they had chosen branched out upon the main path, broad and yellow, which
dipped downward into the hollow. From there came the murmur of water. Green showed through
the white grass of last summer. The odor of wet evergreens was pungent in their nostrils. They
looked at the delicate fringed acacias, at the circle of hills showing above the low tree-tops,
at the cloudless sky; but always their eyes returned to each other's faces, as if they found
these the pleasantest points of the landscape. Sauntering between plantations of young eucalyptus,
they came to the arched stone bridge. They leaned on the parapet, looking down at the marshy
stream beneath and at the three irises Kerr had remarked, knee-deep in swamp ground.

"Now that I see them I suppose I want them," Flora remarked.

"Of course," he assented. "Then hold all these."

He put into her hands the loose bunch of syringa and rose plucked for her in the Purdies' garden,
laid his hat and gloves on the parapet; then, with an eye for the better bank, walked to the
end of the bridge.

She watched him descending the steep bank and issuing into the broad shallow basin of the stream's
way. The sun was still high enough to fill the hollows with warm light and mellow the doubles
of trees and grass in the stream. In this landscape of green and pale gold he looked black
and tall and angular. The wind blew longish locks of hair across his forehead, and she had
a moment's pleased and timorous reflection that he looked like Satan coming into the Garden.

He advanced from tussock to tussock. He came to the brink of the marsh. The lilies wavered
what seemed but a hand's-breadth from him. But he stooped, he reached--Oh, could anything so
foolish happen as that he could not get them! Or, more foolish still, plunge in to the knees!
He straightened from his fruitless effort, drew back, but before she could think what he was
about he had leaned forward again, flashed out his cane, and with three quick, cutting slashes
the lilies were mown. It was deftly, delicately, astonishingly done, but it gave her a singular
shock, as if she had seen a hawk strike its prey. He drew them cleverly toward him in the crook
of his cane, took them up daintily in his fingers, and returned to her across the shallow valley.
She waited him with mixed emotions.

"Oh, how could you!" she murmured, as he put them into her hand.

He looked at her in amused astonishment. "Why, aren't they right?"

They were as clean clipped off and as perfect as if the daintiest hand had plucked them.

"Oh, yes," she admitted, "they're lovely, but I don't like the way you got them."

"I took the means I had," he objected.

"I don't think I like it."

His whole face was sparkling with interest and amusement. "Is that so? Why not?"

"You're too--too"--she cast about for the word--"too terribly resourceful!"

"I see," he said. If she had feared he would laugh, it showed how little she had gauged the
limits of his laughter. He only looked at her rather more intently than he had before.

"But, my good child, resourcefulness is a very natural instinct. I am afraid you read more
into it than is there. You wanted the flowers, I had a stick, and in my youth I was taught
to strike clean and straight. I am really a very simple fellow."

Looking him in the eyes, which were of a clear, candid gray, she was ready to believe it. It
seemed as if he had let her look for a moment through his manner, his ironies, his armor of
indifference, to the frank foundations of his nature.

"But, you see, the trouble is you don't in the least look it," she argued.

"So you think because I have a long face and wild hair that I am a sinister person? My dear
Miss Gilsey, the most desperate character I ever knew was five feet high and wore mutton-chop
whiskers. It is an uncertain business judging men by their appearance."

She could not help smiling. "But most people do."

"I don't class you with most people."

She gave him a quick look. "You did the first night."

"Possibly--but less and less ever since. You have me now in the state of mind where I don't
know what you'll be at next."

This was fortunate, she thought, since she had not the least idea herself, beyond a teasing
desire to find out more about him. He had shown her many fleeting phases which, put together,
seemed contradictory. She could not connect this man, so mild and amusing, strolling beside
her, with the alert, whetted, combative person of the night before, or even with the aloof
and reticent figure on the parade-ground. His very attitude toward herself had changed from
the amused scrutiny of the first night into something more indulgent, more sympathetic. There
was only one attitude on his part that had remained the same--one attitude toward one person--and
her mind hovered over this. On each occasion it had stirred her curiosity and, though she had
not admitted it, made her uneasy. Why not probe him on the subject, now that she had him completely
to herself? But as soon as silence fell between them she saw that wave of preoccupation which
had submerged him during their walk from the parade-ground to the Purdies' rising over him
again and floating him away from her. He no longer even looked at her. His eyes were on the
ground, and it was not until they had crossed the open expanse of the shallow valley and were
climbing toward the avenue of cypress that she found courage to put her question.

"Have you and Mr. Cressy met before?"

He raised his head with a jerk and looked at her a moment in astonishment.

"Do you mind if I answer your question American fashion by asking another?" he said presently.
"What put it into your head that we may have met before?"

"The way you looked at each other at the club, and again this morning."

Kerr shook his head. "You are an observant young person! The fact is, I've never met him--of
that I'm certain, but I believe I've seen him before, and for the life of me, I can't think
where. At the moment you spoke I was trying to remember."

"Was it in this country?" Flora prompted, hopeful of fishing something definite out of this
vagueness.

"No, it was years ago. It must have been in England." He looked at her inquiringly, as if he
expected her to help him.

"Oh, Harry's been in England," she said quickly; and then, with a flashing thought, came to
her the one scene Harry had mentioned in his English experience. Was it at a ball? The question
came to her lips, but she checked it there. She remembered how Harry had stopped her the night
before with a nod, with a look, from mentioning that very thing. Still she hesitated--for the
temptation was strong. But no; it was only loyal to Harry to speak to him first.

"So you're not going to tell me?" Kerr remarked, and she came back to a sudden consciousness
of how her face must have reflected her thought.

"No--not this time!" she said, smiling, though somewhat flushed.

He knitted his brows at her. They had reached the arched gate, and the car that would carry
her home was approaching.

"Ah, then, I am afraid it will be never," he said.

Was it possible this was their last meeting? Did he mean he was going away? The questions formed
in her mind, but there was no time for words. He had stopped the car with a flick of his agile
cane, and handed her in as if he had handed her into a carriage; and not a word as to whether
they would see each other again, though she hoped and hesitated to the last moment.

Her hand was in his for the fraction of a minute. Then the car was widening the distance between
them, and she was no longer looking into his face, which had seemed at their last moment both
merry and wistful, but back at his diminishing figure, showing black against the pale Presidio
hills.

V

ON GUARD

He had so disturbed her, his presence had so obliterated other presences and annihilated time,
that it took an encounter with Clara to remind her of her arrangement for the evening. The
dance? No, she had given that up. She had promised Harry to be at home. Clara wanted to know
rather austerely what she intended to do about the dinner. This was dreadful! Flora had forgotten
it completely. Nothing to be done but go, and leave a message for Harry--apology, and assurance
that she would be home early. She wondered if she were losing her memory.

She appeared to be changing altogether, for the dinner--a merry one--bored her. What she wanted
was to get away from it as soon as possible for that interesting evening. When she had made
the appointment with Harry she had been excited by the thought that he might tell her whether
he had learned anything from the major that morning in the matter of the ring. But now she
was more engrossed with the idea of asking about Kerr--whether Harry had really met him--if
so, where; and, finally, why did not Harry want her to mention that Embassy ball?

Primed with these questions, she left immediately after coffee, arriving at her own red stone
portal at ten. But coming in, all a-flutter with the idea of having kept him waiting when she
had so much to ask, she found her note as she had left it. She questioned Shima. There had
been no message from Mr. Cressy. Her first annoyance was lost in wonder. What could be the
matter? If this was neglect on Harry's part--well, it would be the first time. But she did
not believe it was neglect. He had been too eager that morning.

She went into the drawing-room--a dull-pink, stupendous chamber--knelt a moment before the
flashing wood fire, then rose, and crossing to the window, looked anxiously out. She had a
flight of fancy toward accidents, but in that case she would certainly have heard. The French
clock on the mantel rang half-past ten. The sound had hardly died in the great spaces before
she heard the fine snarl of the electric bell.

She restrained an impulse to dash into the hall, and stood impatient in the middle of the room.

He came in hastily, his lips all ready with words which hesitated at sight of her.

"Why, you're going out!" he said.

She had forgotten the cloak that still hung from her shoulders.

"No, I've just come in, and all my fine apologies for being out are wasted. How long do you
think Clara'll let you stop at this hour?"

"Clara isn't here," he said.

"Well, then your time is all the shorter." She was nettled that he should be oblivious of his
lapse. Their relation had never been sentimental, but he had always been punctilious.

"I'm sorry," he said, arriving at last at his apology. "I couldn't help being late. I've had
a day of it." He drew his hands across his forehead, and she noticed that he was in his morning
clothes and looked as rumpled and flurried as a man just from the office.

She relented. "Poor dear! You do look tired! Don't take that chair. It's more Louis Quinze
than comfortable. Come into the library. And remember," she added, when Shima had set the decanter
and glasses beside him, "you are to stay just twenty minutes."

He took a sip of his drink and looked at her over the top of his glass. "I may have to stay
longer if you want to hear about it."

"Oh, Harry, you really know something? All the evening I've heard nothing but the wildest rumors.
Some say Major Purdie couldn't speak because some one 'way up knows more than she should about
it. And somebody else said it wasn't the real ring at all that was taken, only a paste copy,
and that is why they're not doing more about getting it back."

"Not doing more about getting it back?" Harry laughed. "Is that the idea that generally prevails?
Why, Flora--" He stopped, waited a moment while she leaned forward expectant. "Flora," he began
again, "are you mum?"

She nodded, breathless.

"Not a word to Clara?"

"Oh, of course not."

"Well--" He twisted around in his chair the better to face her. "To-morrow there will be published
a reward of twenty thousand dollars for the return of the Crew Idol, and no questions asked."

"Oh!" she said. And again, "Oh, is that all!" She was disappointed. "I don't see why you and
the major should have been so mysterious about that."

"You don't, eh? Suppose you had taken the ring--wouldn't it make a difference to you if you
knew twenty-four hours ahead that a reward of twenty thousand dollars would be published? Wouldn't
you expect every man's hand to be against you at that price? If you had a pal, wouldn't you
be afraid he'd sell you up? Wouldn't you be glad of twenty-four hours' start to keep him from
turning state's evidence? Well--it's just so that he shan't have the start that the authorities
are keeping so almighty dark about the reward. They want to spring it on him."

Flora leaned forward with knitted brows. "Yes, I can see that, but still, just among ourselves,
this morning--"

Harry smiled. "You've lost sight of the fact that it is just among ourselves the thing has
happened."

"Oh, oh! Now you're ridiculous!"

"I might be, if the thing had happened anywhere but in this town; but think a moment. How much
do we know of the people we meet, where they were, and who they were, before they came here?
There's a case in point. It was not quite 'among ourselves' this morning."

"Harry, how horrid of you!" She was on the point of declaring that she knew Kerr very well
indeed; but she remembered this might not be the thing to say to Harry.

"My dear girl, I'm not saying anything against him. I only remarked that we did not know him."

"Don't you, Harry?"

He gave her a quick look. "Why, what put that into your head?"

"I--I don't know. I thought you looked at him very hard last night in the picture gallery.
And afterward, at supper, don't you remember, you did not want me to mention your connection
with something or other he was talking about?"

"Something or other he was talking about?" Harry inquired with a frowning smile.

"I think it was about that Embassy ball--"

"I didn't want you to mention the Embassy ball?" he repeated, and now he was only smiling.
"My dear child, surely you are dreaming."

She looked at him with the bewildered feeling that he was flatly contradicting himself. And
yet she could remember he had not shaken his head at her. He had only nodded. Could it be that
her cherished imagination had played her a trick at last? But the next moment it occurred to
her that somehow she had been led away from her first question.

"Then have you seen him, Harry?" she insisted.

"No!" He jerked it out so sharply that it startled her, but she stuck to her subject.

"And you wouldn't have minded my telling him you had been at that ball?"

There was a pause while Harry looked at the fire. Then--"Look here," he burst out, "did he
ask you about it?"

"Oh, no," she protested. "I only just happened to wonder."

He stared at her as if he would have liked to shake her. But then he rose from his frowning
attitude before the fire, came over to her, sat on the arm of her chair, and, with the tip
of one finger under her chin, lifted her face; but she did not lift her eyes. She heard only
his voice, very low, with a caressing note that she hardly knew as Harry's.

"It isn't that I care what you say to him. The fact is, Flora, I suppose I was a little jealous,
but I naturally don't like the suggestion that you would discuss me with a stranger."

She knew herself properly reproved, and she reproached herself, not for what she had actually
said to Kerr of Harry--that had been trivial enough--but for that wayward impulse she had to
confide in this clear-eyed, whimsical stranger, as it had never occurred to her to confide
in Harry.

She raised her eyes. "Certainly I shall not discuss you with him."

"Is that a promise?"

"Harry, how you do dislike him!"

"Well, suppose I do?" he shrugged.

"You've used up twice your twenty minutes," she said, "and Clara will be scandalized."

He stopped the caressing movement of his hand on her hair. "Are you afraid of Clara?" he asked.

"Mercy, yes!" She was half in earnest and half laughing. "But then I'm afraid of every one."

He put his arm affectionately around her. "But not of me?"

"Oh," she told him, "you're a great big purring pussy-cat, and I am your poor little mouse."

He thought this reply immensely witty, and Flora thought what a great boy he was, after all.

"Now, really, you must go home," she urged, trying to rise.

"But look here," he protested, still on the arm of her chair, "there's another thing I want
to ask you about." And by the tip of one finger he lifted her left hand shining with rings.
"You will have to have another one of these, you know. It's been on my mind for a week. Is
there any sort you haven't already?"

She held up her hand to the light and fluttered its glitter.

"Any one that you gave me would be different from the others, wouldn't it?" she asked prettily.

"Oh, that's very nice of you, Flora, but I want to find you something new. When shall we look
for it? To-morrow, in the morning?"

"Yes, I should love it," she answered, but with no particular enthusiasm, for the idea of shopping
with Harry, and shopping at Shrove's, did not present a wide field of possibility. "But I have
a luncheon to-morrow," she added, "so we must make it as early as ten."

"Oh, you two!"

At Clara's mildly reproving voice so close beside them both started like conspirators. They
had not heard her come in, yet there she was, just inside the doorway, still wrapped in her
cloak. But there was none of the impetus of arrested motion in her attitude. She stood at repose
as if she might have waited not to interrupt them.

"Don't scold Flora," said Harry, rising. "It's my fault. She sent me away half an hour ago.
But it is so comfortable here!"

Flora couldn't tell whether he was simply natural, or whether he was giving this domestic color
to their interview on purpose. She rather thought it was the latter.

"To-morrow at ten, then!" he said cheerfully to Flora. The stiff curtains rustled behind him
and the two women were left together.

"What an important appointment," said Clara lightly, "to bring a man at this hour to make it."

"Oh, it is, awfully!" Flora answered in the same key. "To choose my engagement ring."

Clara's delicate brows flew upward, and though Clara herself made no comment, the quick facial
movement said, "I don't believe it."

VI

BLACK MAGIC

The memory of Clara's incredulous glance remained with her as something curious, and she was
not unprepared to be challenged when, the next morning, she hurried down the hall, drawing
on her gloves. Clara's door did open, but the lady herself, yawning lightly on the threshold,
had this time no questions for her. "Remember the luncheon," she advised, "and by the way,
Ella wants us to sit in their box to-night. Don't forget to tell Harry."

Flora threw back a gay "All right," but she was in danger of forgetting even the object of
their errand, once she and Harry were out in the bright glare of the street. The wind, keen
and resinous from the wet Presidio woods, blew at their back down the short block of pavement,
and buffeted them, broadside, as they waited on the corner for the slow-crawling little car.
In spite of the blustering air Flora insisted on the side seat of the "dummy," and, catching
her hat with one hand, pressing down her fluttering skirts with the other, she laughed, now
sidelong at Harry, now out at the dancing face of the bay.

Each succeeding cross-street gave up a flash of blue water. The short blocks slid by, first
stone fronts and fresh lawns, stucco and tiles; then here and there corner lots, the great
gray, towered, wooden mansions the stock-brokers of the "seventies" built, and below them,
like a contingent of shabby-genteel relations, the narrow gray wooden faces of what was "smart"
in the "sixties". It was a continuous progress backward toward the old, the original town.
There was no stately nucleus. This town was a succession of widening ripples of progress, each
newer, more polished than the last, but not different in quality from the old center that still
teemed--a region of frail wooden rookeries full of foreign contending interests, haunted with
the adventures of its feverish past. It had built itself on the hopes of a moment, and what
spread from it still was the spell of the new, the changing, and the reckless. It drew still
from the ends of the earth. The broad road in over the mountains, the broad road out over the
ocean made it where it stood, touching all trades, a road-house of the world.

Some dim perception of this touched Flora as the houses, gliding past, grew older, grayer,
with steeper gardens, narrower streets, here and there even trees, lone, sentinel, at the edge
of cobbled gutters. From the crest of the last hill they had looked a mile down the long gray
throat of the street to where the ferry building lay stretched out with its one tall tower
pricked up among the masts of shipping. Half-way between their momentary perch and the ferry
slips the street suddenly thickened, darkened, swarmed, flying a yellow pennon high above blackened
roofs. And now, as they slipped down the long decline into the foreign quarter the pungent
oriental breath of Chinatown was blown up to them. She breathed it in readily. It was pleasant
because it was strange, outlandish, suggesting a wide web of life beyond her own knowledge.
She wondered what Harry was thinking of it, as he sat with his passive profile turned from
her to the heathen street ahead. She guessed, by the curl of his nostril, that it was only
present to him as an unpleasant odor to be got through as quickly as possible; but she was
wrong. He had another thought. This time, oddly enough, a thought for her.

He gave it to her presently, abrupt, matter-of-fact, material. "That Chinese goldsmith down
there has good stuff now and then. How'd you like to look in there before we go on to what-you-call-'em's,--the
regular place?"

"You mean for a ring?" She was doubtful only of his being in earnest.

"You have so many of the Shrove kind," he explained. "I thought you might like it, Flora; you're
so romantic!" he laughed.

"Like it!" she cried, too touched at his thought for her to resent the imputation. "I should
love it! But I didn't know they had such things."

"Now and then--though it is a rare chance."

"But that will be just the fun of it," she hastened, half afraid lest Harry should change his
mind, "to see if we can possibly find one that will be different from all these others."

She kept this little feeling of exploration close about her, as they left the car, a block
above the green trees of the plaza, and entered one of the narrow streets that was not even
a cross-street, but an alley, running to a bag's end, with balconies, green railings and narcissi
taking the sun.

A slant-eyed baby in a mauve blouse stared after them; and a white face so poisoned in its
badness that it gave Flora a start, peered at them from across the street. It made her shrink
a little behind Harry's broad shoulder and take hold of his arm. The mere touch of that arm
was security. His big presence, moving agilely beside her, seemed to fill the street with its
strength, as if, by merely flinging out his arms, Samson-like, he could burst the dark walls
asunder.

In the middle of the block, sunk a little back from the fronts of the others, the goldsmith's
shop showed a single, filmed window; and the pale glow through it proclaimed that the worker
in metals preferred another light to the sun's. The threshold was worn to a hollow that surprised
the foot; and the interior into which it led them gloomed so suddenly around them after the
broad sunlight, that it was a moment before they made out the little man behind the counter,
sitting hunched up on a high stool.

"Hullo, Joe," said Harry, in the same voice that hailed his friends on the street-corners;
but the goldsmith only nodded like a nodding mandarin, as if, without looking up, he took them
in and sensed their errand. He wore a round, blue Chinese cap drawn over his crown; a pair
of strange goggles like a mask over his eyes, and his little body seemed to poise as lightly
on his high stool as a wisp, as if there were no more flesh in it than in his long, dry fingers
that so marvelously manipulated the metal. Save for that glitter of gold on his glass plate,
and the grin of a lighted brazier, all was dark, discolored and cluttered.

And the way Harry bloomed upon this background of dubious antiquity! He leaned on the little
counter, which creaked under his weight, in his big, fresh coat, with his clear, fresh face
bent above the shallow tray of trinkets--doubtful jades, dim-eyed rings, dull clasps and coins--his
large, fastidious finger poked among. He was the one vital thing in the shop.

Over everything else was spread a dimness of age like dust. It enveloped the little man behind
the counter, not with the frailness that belongs to human age, but with that weathered, polished
hardness which time brings to antiques of wood and metal. Indeed, he appeared so like a carved
idol in a curio shop that Flora was a little startled to find that he was looking at her. Chinamen
had always seemed to her blank automatons; but this one looked keenly, pointedly, as if he
personally took note. She told herself whimsically that perhaps it was his extraordinary glasses
that gave point to that expression; and presently when he took them off she was surprised to
see it seemed verily true. His little physiognomy had no more expression than a withered nut.
But there was something about it more disturbing than its vanishing intelligence, something
unexpected, and out of harmony with the rest of him, yet so illusive that, flit over him as
her eye would, she failed to find it.

"Harry," she murmured to Cressy, who was still stirring the contents of the box with a disdainful
forefinger, "this little man gives me the shivers."

"Old Joe?" Harry smiled indulgently. "He's a queer customer. Been quite a figurehead in Chinatown
for twenty years. Say, Joe, heap bad!" and with the back of his hand he flicked the tray away
from him.

The little man undoubled his knees and descended the stool. He stood breast-high behind the
counter. He dropped a lack-luster eye to the box. "Velly nice," he murmured with vague, falling
inflection.

"Oh, rotten!" Harry laughed at him.

"You no like?"

"No. No like. You got something else--something nice?"

"No." It was like a door closed in the face of their hope--that falling inflection, that blank
of vacuity that settled over his face, and his whole drooping figure. He seemed to be only
mutely awaiting their immediate departure to climb back again on his high stool. But Harry
still leaned on the counter and grinned ingratiatingly. "Oh, Joe, you good flen'. You got something
pretty--maybe?"

The curtain of vacuity parted just a crack--let through a gleam of intense intelligence. "Maybe."
The goldsmith chuckled deeply, as if Harry had unwittingly perpetrated some joke--some particularly
clever conjurer's trick. He sidled out behind the counter, past the grinning brazier, and shuffled
into the back of the shop where he opened a door.

Flora had expected a cupboard, but the vista it gave upon was a long, black, incredibly narrow
passage, that stretched away into gloom with all the suggestion of distance of a road going
over a horizon. Down this the goldsmith went, with his straw slippers clapping on his heels,
until his small figure merged in the gloom and presently disappeared altogether, and only the
faint flipper-flap of his slippers came back growing more and more distant to them, and finally
dying into silence. In the stillness that followed while they waited they could hear each other
breathe. The little shop with the water-stained walls and the ancient odor--ancient as the
empire of China--inclosed them like a spell cast around them by a vanishing enchanter to hold
them there mute until his returning. They did not look at each other, but rather at the glowing
brazier, at the gold on the glass plates, at the forms of people passing in the street, moving
palely across the dim window pane, as distant to Flora's eye as though they moved in another
world. Then came the flipper-flap of the goldsmith's slippers returning. The sound snapped
their tension, and Harry laughed.

"Lord knows how far he went to get it!"

"Across the street?" Flora wondered.

"Or under it. And it won't be worth two bits when it gets here." He peered at the little man
coming toward them down the passage, flapping and shuffling, and carrying, held before him
in both hands, a square, deep little box.

It was a worn, nondescript box that he set down before them, but the jealous way he had carried
it had suggested treasure, and Flora leaned eagerly forward as he raised the cover, half expecting
the blaze of a jewel-case. She saw at first only dull shanks of metal tumbled one upon the
other. But, after a moment's peering, between them she caught gleams of veritable light. Her
fingers went in to retrieve a hoop of heavy silver, in the midst of which was sunk a flawed
topaz. She admired a moment the play of light over the imperfection.

"But this isn't Chinese," she objected, turning her surprise on Harry.

"Lots of 'em aren't. These men glean everywhere. That's pretty." He held up a little circle
of discolored but lusterful pearls--let it fall again, since it was worth only a glance. He
leaned on the counter, indifferent to urge where value seemed so slight. He seemed amused at
Flora's enthusiasm for clouded opals.

"They look well enough among this junk," he said, "but compare them with your own rings and
you'll see the difference."

She heard him dreamily. She was wishing, as she turned over the tumble of damaged jewels, that
things so pretty might have been perfect. To find a perfect thing in this place would be too
extraordinary to hope for. Yet, taking up the next, and the next, she found herself wishing
it might be this one--this cracked intaglio. No? Then this blue one--say. The setting spoke
nothing for it. It was a plain, thin, round hoop of palpable brass, and the battered thing
seemed almost too feeble to hold the solitary stone. But the stone! She looked it full in the
eye, the big, blazing, blue eye of it. What was the matter with this one? A flaw? She held
it to the light.

She felt Harry move behind her. She knew he couldn't but be looking at it. For how, by all
that was marvelous, had she for a moment doubted it? Down to its very heart, which was near
to black, it was clear fire, and outward toward the facets struck flaming hyacinth hues with
zigzag white cross-lights that dazzled and mesmerized. Just the look of it--the marvelous deep
well of its light--declared its truth.

"Harry," she breathed, without taking her gaze from the thing in her hand, "do look at this!"

She felt him lean closer. Then with an abrupt "Let's see it," he took it from her--held it
to the light, laid it on his palm, looking sharply across the counter at the shopkeeper, then
back at the ring with a long scrutiny. His face, too, had a flush of excitement.

"Is it--good?" Flora faltered.

"A sapphire," he said, and taking her third finger by the tip, he slid on the thin circle of metal.

She breathed high, looking down at the stone with eyes absorbed in the blue fire. There was
none of the cupidity of women for jewels in her look. It was the intrinsic beauty of this drop
of dark liquid light that had captured her. It had mystery, and her imagination woke to it--the
wistful mystery of perfect beauty. And perfect beauty in such a place! It was too beautiful.
The feeling it brought her was too sharp for pure pleasure. It was dimly like fear. Yet instinctively
she shut her hand about the ring. She murmured out her wonder.

"How in the world did such a thing come here?"

"Oh, not so strange," Harry answered. He leaned on his elbow upon the counter, his head bent
close to hers above the single, glittering point that drew the four eyes to one focus. "Sailors
now and then pick up a thing of whose value they have no idea--get hard up, and pawn it--still
without any idea. These chaps"--and his bold hand indicated the shopkeeper--"take in anything--that
is, anything worth their while; and wait, and wait, and wait until they see just the moment--and
turn it to account."

It might be because Harry's eyes were so taken with the jewel that his tongue ran recklessly.
He had spoken low, but Flora sent an anxious glance to be sure the shopkeeper hadn't overheard.
She had meant only to glance, but she found herself staring into eyes that stared back from
the other side of the counter. That wide, unwinking scrutiny filled her whole vision. For an
instant she saw nothing but the dance of scintillant pupils. Then, with a little gasp she clutched
at her companion's arm.

"Oh, Harry!"

His glance came quickly round to her. "Why, what's the matter?"

She murmured, "That Chinaman has blue eyes."

He looked at her with good-natured wonder.

"Why, Flora, haven't you blue on the brain? I believe he has, though," he added, as he peered
across the counter at the shopkeeper, whose gaze now fluttered under narrowed lids; "but why
in the world should blue eyes scare you?" His look returned indulgently to Flora's face.

She could not explain her reason of fear to him. She could not explain it to herself more than
that the eyes had seemed to know. What? She could not tell; but they had had a deadly intelligence.
She only whispered back, "But he is awful!"

"Oh, I guess not," Harry grinned, and turned his back to the counter, "only part white. Makes
him a little sharper at a bargain."

But, in spite of his off-handedness, Flora saw he was alert, touched with excitement. Once
or twice he looked from the shopkeeper to the sapphire.

"Do you like it, Flora?" he said. "Do you want it?" He spoke eagerly against her reluctance.

"It is the most beautiful thing I ever saw, but--" She could not put it to him why she shrank
from it. That feeling which had touched her at the first had a little expanded, the sense of
the sapphire's sinister charm. She faltered out as much as she could explain. "It's too much
for me."

His shoulders shook with appreciation of this. "Oh, I guess not! If you keep that up I shall
be thinking you mean it is too much for me."

It hadn't been in the least what she meant, but now that he had suggested it to her--"Well,
I shouldn't like it to be," she blushed, but she braved him.

The ring of his laughter filled the little, dark, old shop, and made the proprietor blink.

"Oh, I guess not," he said again, and with that he seemed to make an end of her hesitations.
There was not another objection she could bring up. She let him draw the ring off her hand
with a mingled feeling of reluctance and relief. She saw him turn briskly to the shopkeeper.

"Now, Joe, how much you want?" That much she heard as she turned away with a fear lest it might,
and a hope that it would be, too much for him!

She lingered away to the door, through whose upper glazed half she saw the street swarming
and sunny, picked out with streamers of red and squares of green. The murmur of traffic outside
was faint to her ears. The murmur of the two voices talking on inside the shop momently grew
fainter. She looked behind her and saw them now in the back of the shop, close by the grinning
brazier.

The light of it showed what would have been otherwise dark. It showed her Harry, straddling,
hands in pockets, hat thrust back, a silhouette as hard as if cast in cold metal. The aspect
of him, thus, was strange, not quite unlike himself, but giving her the feeling that she had
never known how much Harry smoothed over.

Perhaps men were always like that with men. Still she looked away again because she felt she
had taken a liberty in catching him when he was coming out so plain and coming out so positive
to the shopkeeper, whom he seemed really to be bullying. She felt that, considering the sapphire,
nothing that went on about it could be too extraordinary. And yet the tone their voices were
taking on made her nervous. Whatever they were arguing about, she found it hard to go on standing
thus with her back to it, and for so long, while her expectancy tightened, and her unreasonable
idea that she did not want the ring, more and more took hold of her. If he did not want to
sell it, why not let it go--the beautiful thing!

She thought she would call Harry, and suggest it--but no. She hesitated. She would give them
a chance to finish it themselves. She would count ten pigtails past the window first. She watched
the last far into the distance, and still she was there, blowing hot and cold. She would call
to Harry--call out to him from where she stood, that she wouldn't have the thing.

She turned, and there they were yet. They had not moved. The shadow of the gesticulating little
Chinaman danced like a bird on the wall, and before him Harry glowed, immovable, but ruddy,
as if the hard metal whereof he was cast was slowly heating through. The thought came to her
then. Harry was iron! The hard shade of his profile on the wall, the stiff movement of his
lips, the forward thrust of his head on his shoulders gave her another thought. Was Harry also
brutal? The sight of that brutality awake, feeding, as it were, on the fluttering little figure
before it, distressed her. How long were they going on putting an edge to their argument? There
was continually with her the fear that it might sharpen into a quarrel; for now the goldsmith
had ceased his gesticulation and became suddenly immobile, and still Harry was requiring of
him the same thing. It was insisted upon, by all the lines of his stiff braced figure, and
she had a fluttered expectancy that if the little man didn't do something quickly, now--now
it would happen.

What she expected of Harry, a violent act or a quick relaxation of his iron mood, she had not
time to consider, for the shopkeeper had moved. He was jerking his head, his thumb, and finally
his arm in the direction of the long, dim passage--such a pointed direction, such a singular
gesture, as to startle her with its incongruity. What had that to do with the price of the
ring? And if it had nothing to do with the price of the ring, what had they been talking about?
Her small scruple against knowing what was going on behind her was forgotten. Indeed, now she
was oblivious of everything else. She was taking it in with all her eyes, when Harry turned
and looked at her. And, oddly enough, she thought he looked as if he wondered how she came
there. She saw him return to it slowly. Then, in a flash, he met her brilliantly. He came toward
her out of the gloom, holding the ring before him, as if with the light of that, and the flash
of his smile, he was anxious immediately to cover his deficit.

"I had the very devil of a time getting it," he said. "The little beggar didn't want to let
me have it." But there was a subsiding excitement in his face, and a something in his manner,
both triumphant and troubled, which his explanation did not reasonably account for. Had Harry
felt the touch of the same strange influence that the little shop, and the blue-eyed Chinaman,
and the sapphire, had wrought around her? Or was it something more salient, the same thing
that had suggested itself to her with the violent gesticulation of the shopkeeper at the passage--that
some question other than the mere transfer of the ring had come up between them?

"Harry"--she hesitated--"are you quite sure it's all right?"

"All right?" The sudden edge in his voice made her look at him. "Why, it's genuine, if that's
what you mean."

It hadn't been, quite; but her meaning was too vague to put into words--a mere sensation of
uneasiness. She watched Harry turn the ring over, as if he were reluctant to let it go out
of his hands. And then, looking at her, she thought his glance was a little uncertain. She
thought he hesitated, and when he finally slid the ring over her finger, "I wouldn't wear it
until it is reset," he said. "That setting isn't gold. It's hardly decent."

"Yes," she assented; "Clara will laugh at us."

"She won't if we don't show it to her until it's fit to appear. In fact, I would rather you
wouldn't. As it is now, the thing doesn't represent my gift to you."

She felt this was Harry's conventional streak asserting itself. But even she had to admit that
an engagement ring which was palpably not gold was rather out of the way.

"You'd better keep it a day or two and look it over and make up your mind how you want it set,
and then we'll spring it on them," he advised.

But now it was finally on her finger, she did not want to think it would ever have to be taken
off again. She drew her glove over it. The great facets showed sharp angles under the thin
kid. She wished the sapphire were not quite so large, so difficult to reconcile with everything
else. Now that she had the perfect thing with her, clasping her so heavily around the third
finger, she was half afraid it was going to be too much for her, after all.

VII

A SPELL IS CAST

It was hers! She did not believe it. It had been done too quickly. It seemed to her she had
hardly felt Harry slip it on her finger before they had left the shop; that she had hardly
shaken off the musty inclosed atmosphere, before Harry had left her on the corner of California
and Powell Streets--left her alone with the ring! Still, she didn't believe she had it, even
while she looked at the large lump it made under her glove. She kept feeling it with a cautious
finger-tip.

A trio of girls she knew flocked off the California Street car and surrounded her. They were
going to the White House for bargains in shirt waists. They wanted to carry her off in their
company. They encompassed her in a chatter of lace and lingerie. There were held up to her
all the interests of her every-day existence; but these seemed to have no part in her real
life. They had never appeared more remote and trivial. She kept her conscious hand in the folds
of her skirt. She would have liked to strip off her glove and show them the ring. It would
have entertained them so much. To herself its entertainment was of the Arabian Nights--the
way of its finding, its beauty in the false setting, the struggle over it in the shop--all
were wine to her imagination. It was a thing to conjure adventure; it was a talisman of romance.

She colored faintly as she mentally corrected herself. It was her engagement ring, and as such
she had never once thought of it. Strange, when all the forms of her engagement had been so
well observed; when Harry himself represented that side of life to which she had tried to form
herself from as far back as the old days when her mother had made fun of her fancies. It must
be right, she thought, this life of conventions and forms; and the queer way she saw things,
something wrong in her. But because she knew herself different, and because she felt life without
understanding it, she feared it. It was too big to take hold of alone. And she was so alone;
and Harry was so strong, so matter-of-fact; alone like herself, yet adequate in the world she
was afraid of. She had accepted him as naturally, and yet as unreally, as she took all that
life, and to the moment she had never questioned the wisdom or the happiness. She didn't question
now. She only was shocked that so large a fact in her life as her engagement could be completely
wiped out for the moment by a thing so trivial. It was not even the ring. It was the feeling
she had about the ring. Her imagination was always running away with her, as it had the night
at the club. And here it was, still uncurbed, speeding her forward into fields of romance.

She went over whole dramas--imaginary histories of chance and circumstance--woven about the
ring, as she walked up and down the long, windy hills, westward and homeward, the blue bay
on the one hand beaten green under the rising "trade," and the fog coming in before her. With
the experience of the morning, and the exercise and the lively air, her spirits were riding
high. From time to time she had the greatest longing to peep again at the sapphire, but not
until the house door had closed after her did she dare draw off her glove and look. It was
still glorious. What a pity she must take it off! Yet that point Harry had made about not showing
it had been too sharp to be disregarded. But what could she say, supposing Clara asked about
the morning's expedition? At this thought all her spring deserted her, and she went slowly
up the stair. Perhaps Clara had forgotten about it, and then it recurred reassuringly to her
mind how seldom Clara touched anywhere near the subject of her engagement.

None the less, she went very softly down the hall, anxious lest Clara might open her door and
ask what she had brought home with her.

But even in the refuge of her own rooms the ring encircled Flora with unease. The light of
it on her finger made her restless. It wasn't that she was apprehensive of it, but she could
not forget it. She could hear the maid Marrika moving about in the room beyond. She could hear
the rustle of clothes carried to and fro. She knew there were things to dress for--a luncheon,
and a bevy of teas--things which must be gone through with, things which at other times she
had found sufficiently pleasurable. But now, try as she would to turn her mind to these, it
persistently wandered back to the jewel. All the fine, simple pleasure of the morning was dazzled
out by it. She slipped it off her finger on to the dressing-table, and it lay among her laces
like a purple prism, cast by some unearthly sun in a magic glass. She had jewels, rubies even--the
most precious--but nothing that gave her this sense of individual beauty, of beauty so keen
as to be disturbing. She emptied her jewel casket in a glittering heap around it. It shone
out unquenched. It had not been the dingy little shop, and the dingy little street, and the
odds and ends of jade and tarnished silver that had made it of such a value. It seemed to her
that any eye would fix it, any hand pluck it out first from that shining heap before her.

Marrika was coming in, and quickly Flora swept the jewels and the sapphire back into the casket,
turned the key upon them, and thrust it back in the far corner of the drawer. She would give
every one a great surprise when the ring was properly set. She glanced nervously over her shoulder
to see if Marrika had noticed her action. The Russian had been moving to and fro between the
wardrobe and the dressing-table with a droning thread of song. And now she took up the combs
and brushes, and filling her mouth with pins, began on the long river of yellow-brown hair
that flowed down Flora's back. The broad, pale face reflected beside her own in the mirror
was reassuring by its serene indifference. She had soothing hands, Marrika. It was a luxury
to be dressed by her, a mental soporific. But to-day it wrought no relaxation in Flora's tightened
nerves. All the while she was being combed and laced and hooked her eyes were alertly on the
dressing-table drawer, that remained a little open; and presently she caught herself vaguely
speculating on how, after she had been fastened up and into her clothes so securely, she could
dispose upon herself the sapphire. How had she arrived at this consideration? No course of
reasoning led up to it. She was annoyed with herself. If she wasn't going to wear the ring
on her finger, and show it, why did she want to take it with her at all? For fear it might
be lost? Lost, in her jewel box, in the back of the drawer! She blushed for herself. She looked
severely at her guilty reflection in the mirror. Perhaps she did look tall; yes, and outwardly
sophisticated, but underneath that bold exterior Flora knew she was only the smallest, youngest,
most ridiculous child ever born. There were moments when this fact appeared to her more vividly
than at others. One had been the other night when Kerr's eyes had looked through and through
her; and here she was again, when she was going to a girls' luncheon, and most wanted to feel
competent, stared out of countenance by the wonderful eye of a ring.

Through the long afternoon it was more apparent to her than the faces of the people around
her. She was restless to get back to it, but people talked interminably. At the luncheon they
talked of Kerr. Flora knew these girls felt a little resentment that she had so easily captured
Harry Cressy; for Harry had been more than an eligible man in the little city. He had been
an eligible personage. Not that he had money; not that his family tree was plainly planted
in their midst; but that without these two things he had achieved what, with these things,
the people he knew were all striving for. He stood before them as the embodiment of what they
most believed in--perfect bodily splendor, and perfect knowledge of how to get on with the
world; and the fact that he wouldn't quite be one of them, but after five years still stood
a little off--made him shine with greater brilliance, especially in the eyes of these young
girls. It was hard, they seemed to feel, that such an apparently remote and difficult person
should have succumbed so easily; and now that a new luminary of equal luster was apparent in
their sky, Flora felt their remarks a little triumphantly aimed at her. It was odd to her that
they should envy her anything, especially those one or two exquisite flowers of old families,
whose lovely eyes saw not one inch farther than her turquoise collar. And the way they talked
of Kerr, with flourishes, made her feel a faint, responsive irritation that he had talked to
so many of them in exactly the same way.

But between the threads of interest the table group wove together, kept flashing up her furtive
desire to be away, to be at home, to see what had happened to the sapphire. Of course, she
knew that nothing could have happened; but she wanted to look at it, to open the casket and
see the flash of it before her eyes. For was she quite sure that it was not one of those fairy
gifts, which, put into the hand in a blaze of beauty, may be found in the pocket as withered
leaves? Yet her tenacious nets of duty caught and caught, and again caught her, so that when
the carriage finally fetched her home it was between lighted street-lamps.

They were dining early that night on account of the Bullers' box party, but it was nearly eight
o'clock before Flora reached the house. And it was, of course, for that reason that she ran
up-stairs--ran wildly, regardlessly, before the eyes of Shima--and along the hall, her high
heels clacking on the hard floors, and through her bedroom to the dressing-room, snatched open
the table drawer, unlocked the casket with a twitch of the key--and, ah, it was there! It was
really real! Why, what had she expected? She was laughing at herself.

She was gay in her relief at getting back to the sapphire, but at the same time she was already
wondering what she should do about it that night--take it with her or leave it alone? Dared
she wear it on her finger under her glove? Clara might notice the unfamiliar form of the jewel
through the thin kid. Harry's warning had been phrased conventionally enough, but the hints
his words conveyed had expanded in her mind--fear not only of Clara's laughter, that such a
jewel had come from a junk shop, but of her wonder, her questions, her ability of getting out
the story of the whole erratic proceeding, even to the strange pantomime between Harry and
the blue-eyed Chinaman. Clara was marvelous!

Flora watched her curiously across the table that evening, wondering what was that quality
of hers by which she acquired. Hitherto Flora had accepted it as a fact without question, but
now she had a desire to place it. It was not beauty, for though Clara was pretty, like a polished
Greuze, she was colorless and flavorless, lacking the vivid heat of magnetism. More probably
it consisted in a certain sort of sweetness Clara could produce on occasions, a way she had
of looking and speaking which Flora could only describe as smooth. But smooth without texture
or softness; smooth as quick-flowing water, smooth as glass--a surface upon which even caution
might lose its equilibrium. For the danger in Clara was that she was disarming. There was nothing
antagonistic in her. One noticed her slowly. The flat tones of her voice made background for
other people's conversations. The pale tints of her gown blended with the pale tones of her
hair and flesh. Beside Clara's exquisite gradations Flora felt herself without shades, a creature
of violent contrasts and impulses. If Clara had been going to carry the ring about with her
she would have had a reason for it. But Flora had nothing but a silly fancy.

She made up her mind to leave the sapphire at home; but in her last moment in her room the
resolution failed her. Harry, of course, would be angry if he knew, but Harry wouldn't see
the thing under her glove.

She came down to where Clara was waiting for her, with the guilty feeling of a child who has
concealed a contraband cake; but the way Clara looked her over made her conscious that she
had not concealed her excitement. Clara was always cool. What would it be like, she wondered,
to feel the same about everything? How would it seem to be no more elated by the expectation
of listening to the most beautiful of tenors than over the next meeting of the Decade Club?
Was that what she was coming to in time? Not to-night, she thought; and not, at least, while
that talisman of romance clasped her around the third finger.

VIII

A SPARK OF HORROR

They found Harry waiting for them in the theater lobby. He had come up too late from Burlingame
to do more than meet the party there. The Bullers were already in the box, he said, and the
second act of I' Pagliacci just beginning.

As they came to the door of the box the lights were down, the curtain up on a dim stage, and
the chorus still floating into the roof, while the three occupants of the box were indistinguishable
figures, risen up and shuffling chairs to the front for Flora and Clara. It was too dark to
distinguish faces.

But dark as it was, Flora knew who was sitting behind her. She heard him speaking. Under the
notes of the recitative he was speaking to Clara. The pleasure of finding him here was sharpened
by the surprise. She listened to his voice, the mere intonation of which brought back to her
their walk through the Presidio woods as deliciously as if she were still there.

Then, as the tenor took up the theme, all talking ceased--Ella's husky whisper, Clara's smoother
syllables, and the flat, slow, variable voice of Kerr--the whole house seemed to sink into
stiller repose; the high chords floated above the heads of the black pit like colored bubbles,
and Flora forgot the sapphire in the triple spell of the singing, the darkness, and the face
she was yet to see. She felt relaxed and released from her guard by this darkness around her,
that blotted out the sea of faces beneath, that dissolved the walls and high galleries, that
obscured the very outline of the box where she sat, until she seemed to be poised, half-way
up a void of darkness, looking into a pit in the hollowness of which a voice was singing.

The stage was a narrow shelf of wood swung in that void, from which the voice sang, and a bare
finger of light followed it about from place to place. The sweet, searching tenor notes, the
semblance of passion and reality the gesticulating Frenchman threw over all the stage, and
the crescendo of the tragedy carried her into a mood that barred out Ella, barred out Clara,
barred out Harry more than any; but, unaccountably, Kerr was still with her. He was there by
no will of hers, but by some essence of his own, some quality that linked him, as it linked
her, to the passionate subtleties of life. He seemed to her the eager spirit that was prompting
and putting forward this comedy and tragedy playing on before her. She heard him reasserted,
vigorous, lawless, wandering, in the voice of the mimic strolling player addressing his mimic
audience. The appeal of the tenor to the voiceless galleries, "Underneath this little play
we show, there is another play," seemed indeed the very voice of Kerr repeating itself. And
with the climax of the sharp tragedy in the middle of the comic stage she placed him again,
but placed him this time in the mimic audience looking on, neither applauding nor dissenting;
but rather as if he watched the play and played it, too.

The lights went up with a spring. A wave of motion flickered over the house, the talking voices
burst forth all at once, and she saw him, really saw him for the first time that evening, as
in her fancy, part of the audience; as in her fancy, neither applauding nor dissenting, yet
with what a difference! He leaned back in his chair, and leaned his head a little back, as
if, for weariness, he wished there were a rest behind it; and how indifferently, how critically,
how levelly he surveyed the fluttered house, and the figures in the box beside him! How foreign
he appeared to the ardent spirit who had dominated the dark; how emptied of the heat of imagination,
how worn, how dry; and even in his salience, how singularly pathetic! He was neither the satanic
person of the first night, nor her comrade of the Presidio hills. And if the expression of
his face was not quite so cheap as cynicism, it was just the absence of belief in anything.

She felt a lump in her throat, an ache of the cruelest disappointment, as though some masker,
masking as the fire of life, had suddenly removed the covering of his face and showed her the
burnt-out bones beneath. The shift from what she remembered him to what he now appeared was
too rapid and considerable for her. She found herself looking at him through a mist of tears--there
in the heart of publicity, in the middle of the circle of red velvet curtains!

He turned and saw her. She watched a smile of the frankest pleasure rising, as it were, to
the surface of his weary preoccupation. Something had delighted him. Why, it was herself--just
her being there! And she could only helplessly blink at him. Was ever anything so stupid as
to be caught in tears over nothing! For the next moment he had caught her. She knew by the
change of his look, interrogative, amused, incredulous. He straightened and leaned forward.

"Really," he said, "you must remember that little man has only gone out for a glass of beer."

So he thought it was the tenor who had brought her to the point of tears.

"Ah, why do you say that?" she protested.

He continued to smile indulgently upon her. "Would you really rather believe it true?"

"I don't know. But I wish you hadn't thought of the beer."

He brought the glare of his monocle to bear full upon her. "Why not? It is all we make sure of."

So he had taken that side of it. By his words as well as his looks he repudiated all the gallant
show of romance he had paraded to her before, and had taken up the cause of the world as flatly
as Harry could have done.

"Oh, if to be sure is all you want," she burst out; "but you don't mean it! Wouldn't you rather
have something beautiful you weren't sure of, than something certain that didn't matter?"

He nodded to this quite casually, as if it were an old acquaintance.

"Oh, yes; but the time comes round when you want to be sure of something. The sun never sets
twice alike over Mont Pelee; but you can always get the same brand of lager to-day that you
had the week before." He looked at her with a faint amusement. "And by your expression I take
it you don't know how fine some of those brands are. Life is not half bad--even when it is
only a means to the beer."

Under these garish lights, in the middle of this theater of people, facing the bland, almost
banal, stare of that monocle, it looked exceedingly probable that, after all, in spite of her
dreaming, this was what life would prove to be. But she hated the thought, as she hated that
Kerr should be the one to show it to her; as she would have hated her ring if, after all its
splendor in the shop, it should have turned out to be a piece of colored glass.

"No, no! I won't believe you," she stoutly denied him. "There is more in life than you can
touch. You're not like yourself to say there is not."

He laughed, but rather shortly.

"My dear child, forgive me; I'm sulky to-night. I feel, as I felt at eighteen, that the world
has treated me badly. I've lost my luck."

The way his voice dropped at the last sounded to her the weariest thing she had ever heard.
He settled back in his chair again, and looked moodily out across the brilliant house.

"I'm sorry." Her tone was sweetly vague. What could be the matter with him? Then, half timidly,
she rallied him. "If you go on like this, I shall have to show you my talisman."

"Oh, have you indeed a talisman?" he humored her. And it was as if he said, "Oh, have you a
doll?" He did not even turn his head to look at her.

She was chilled. She felt the disappointment, that his quick smile had lightened, return upon
her. She hardly noticed the rise of the curtain on the second little play, and the singing
voices did not reach her with any poignancy. She was vaguely aware of movements in the box--of
Harry's coming in, of Clara's little rustle making room for him, of the shift of Ella's chair
away from the business of listening, toward him, and her husky whisper going on with some prolonged
tale of dull escapade; but to Flora they all made only a banal background for the brooding
silence of her companion. He had thrown his mood over her until she was ready to doubt even
the potency of her talisman to counteract it.

She felt of the stone. She drew off her glove and tried to look at it in the dim light, but
couldn't get a gleam out of it. She was as impatient for the lights to go up that she might
secretly be cheered by its wonder, as she had been that afternoon to get back from the luncheon,
and make sure it was still in the drawer. She must see it in spite of Clara at her right hand,
whose little chiseled profile might turn upon her at any moment a full face of inquiry.

She held her left hand low in the shadow of her chair; and if, as the lights went up again,
there was any change in the sapphire, it was merely a sharper brilliance, as if, like an eye,
it had moods, and this was one of its moments of excitement. In its extraordinary luster it
seemed to possess a beauty that could not be valued; and she wanted to hold it up to Kerr,
to see if she couldn't startle him out of his mood--to see if he wouldn't respond to it, "Yes,
there is more in it than you can touch."

She turned to him with the daring flash of timid spirits. It was so sharp a motion that he
started instantly from his reverie to meet it, but his alacrity was mechanical. She felt the
smile he summoned was slow, as if he returned, from a long distance, a little painfully to
his present surroundings.

The Intermezzo was playing, and to speak under the music he leaned so close his shoulder touched
her chair. Through that narrow space between them, almost beneath his eyes, she moved her hand--a
gesture so slightly emphasized as to seem accident. He had started to speak, but her motion
seemed to stop his tongue. He looked hard at her hand, and something violent in his intentness
made her clutch the side of the chair. Instantly she met his look, so fiercely, cruelly challenging,
that it took her like a blow. For a moment they looked at each other, her eyes wide with fright,
his narrowed to a glare under the terrible intentness of his brows. What had she done? What
threatened her? What could save her in this sea of people? Then, while she gazed, his challenge
burned out to a pale hard scrutiny, that faded to no expression at all--or was it that any
expression would have seemed dim after the terrible one that had flashed across his face?

She was as shaken as if he had seized hold of her. If he had snatched the ring off her finger
she wouldn't have been more shocked. The whole box must be transfixed by him, and the whole
house be looking at nothing but their little circle of horror! She was ready for it. She was
braced for anything but the fact which actually confronted her--that no one had noticed them
at all. It was monstrous that such a thing could have been without their knowing! But there
was no face in all the orchestra, the crowded galleries, or the tiers of boxes to affirm that
anything had happened; no face in their own box had even stirred, but Clara's, and that had
merely turned from profile to the full, faintly inquiring, mild, and palely pink in the warm
reflections of the red velvet curtains.

And what could Clara have seen, if she had seen at all, but Flora a little paler than usual
with a hand that trembled; and what worse could Clara conjecture than that she was being silly
about Kerr? She turned slowly toward him, and looked at him with a courage that was part of
her fear. But wasn't she, in a way, being silly about Kerr? What had become of his expression
that had threatened her? There was nothing left of it but her own violent impression--and the
longer Kerr sat there, talking from her to Clara, from Clara to Judge Buller, his eyes keeping
pace with his light conversational flights, the less Flora felt sure he had ever fixed her
with that intensity.

And yet the thing had actually happened. Its evidence was before her. He had been silent. Now
he was talking. He had been absent. Now she thought she had never seen him more vividly concerned
with the moment. Yet for all his cool looks and diffuse talk around the box, she felt uneasily
that his concern was pointed at her, and that he would never let her go. He only waited for
the cover of the last act to come back to her single-handed.

She would have deflected his attack, but it was too quick, too unexpected for her to do more
than sit helpless, and let him lift up her left hand, delicately between thumb and finger,
as if in itself it was some rare, fine curio, and, bending close, contemplate the sapphire
unwinkingly. She had an instant when she thought she must cry out, but how impossible in the
awful publicity of her place--a pinnacle in the face of thousands! And after the first fluttered
impulse came a certain reassurance in such a frank and trivial action. For all its intensity,
how could it be construed otherwise than a lively if unconventional interest? It must have
been her own fancy which had discerned anything more than that in his first look at her. And
yet, when he had laid her hand lightly back, and readjusted his monocle, and looked out, away
from her, across the black house, she didn't know whether she was more reassured or troubled
because he had not spoken a word. Yet the next moment he looked around at her.

"We shan't meet every evening in such a way as this," he said, and left the statement dangling
unanswerable between them. It sounded portentous--final. She wondered that in the middle of
her fear it could strike such a sharp note of regret in her. She knew she would regret not
meeting him again; and yet she shrank from the thought she could still want to meet him. By
one look her whole feeling of sympathy, of reliance, of admiration, that had flowed out to
him so naturally she had scarcely been aware of it, had been troubled and mixed with fear.
She couldn't answer. She could only look at him with a reflection of her trouble in her face.

"Are you surprised that I thought of that?" he inquired. "It's not so odd as you seem to think
that I should want to see you again. I don't want to leave it to chance; do you?" He shot the
question at her so suddenly, with such a casual eye, and such dry gravity of mouth, that he
had her admission out of her before she realized the extent of its meaning. And the way he
took that admission for granted, and overlooked her confusion, made her feel that for the sake
of whatever he was after he was intentionally ignoring what it did not suit his convenience
to see. She knew he must have seen; that every moment while she had changed and fluttered his
eye had never left her.

"Then when are you at home?" he asked her; and by his tone, he conveyed the impression that
he was only making courteous response to some invitation she had offered him; though, when
she thought, she had not offered it, he had got it out of her. He had got it by sheer impertinence.
But none the less he had it. She couldn't escape him there.

She answered somewhat stiffly: "Fridays, second and fourth."

He looked at her with a humorous twist of mouth. "What? So seldom?"

She was impotent if he wouldn't be snubbed; but at the worst she wouldn't be cornered. "Oh,
dear, no--but people who come at other times take a chance."

"Does that mean that I may take mine to-morrow?"

He was pressing her too hard. Why was he so anxious to see her, as he had not been the first
night or yesterday, or even ten minutes ago? She, who, ten minutes ago, would have been glad,
now was doing her best to put him off. She was silent a moment, considering the conventions,
and then, like him, she abandoned them. Without a word she turned away from him. Whatever she
said, he had her. But, if she said nothing and still he came to-morrow, whatever she did then,
he would have to take the consequences of his insistence. Her only desire now was to evade
him, lest he should force her out of her non-committal attitude. She wanted to shield herself
from further pursuit.

She couldn't escape yet, for the figures on the stage were still gesticulating and trilling,
and the people around her, in the small inclosure where she sat, hemmed her in so that she
could no more move away from Kerr than if she had been that impaled specimen he had made her
feel at their first meeting. The most she could do was to turn away, but even thus, with her
eyes averted and her ears full of Ella's voice, she was still acutely aware of him, sitting
looking straight before him across the black house with a face worn, wary, weathered to any
catastrophe, and such an air of being alertly fixed on something a long way off, that her silence
made no more difference to him than her flutterings and her rudeness. And yet she knew he was
only waiting; waiting his chance to get at her again and make her commit herself; and that,
she was determined, should not happen.

What had already happened, through its very violence, had left an impression like a dream.
It seemed unreal, and yet it had made her forget everything else--the stage, the people around
her, and even the very sapphire that had generated her inexplicable situation. She drew her
glove over the ring. The lights were imminent. It would be hard to hide the great flash of
the jewel. And besides, she didn't trust it. She couldn't tell in what direction it might not
strike out a spark of horror next.

The rustle of final departure was all over the house. The people in the box were stirring and
beginning to stand up; and Flora saw Kerr turn and look at her. She wanted some one to stand
between herself and Kerr, and it was to Harry that she turned; not alone that he was so large
and adequate, but because she thought she saw in him an inclination to step into that very
place where she wanted him. She saw he was a little sullen, and though she didn't suspect him
quite of jealousy, she wondered if he had not a right to blame her for the appearance of flirtation
that she and Kerr must have presented. Then how much more might he blame her for what she had
actually done--for deliberately showing the sapphire to Kerr! The very thought of it frightened
her. She knew she was rattling to Harry all the while he fetched her cloak and put it on her,
and she was glad now of that ability she had cultivated in herself of making a smooth crust
of talk over her seething feelings. She talked the harder, she even took hold of Harry's arm
to be sure of keeping him there between her and what she was afraid of, as they came out on
the sidewalk and stood waiting in the windy night for the approach of their carriage lights.

Row upon row of street lamps flared in the traveling gusts. The midnight noises of the city
were at their loudest; and half their volume seemed to be a scattered chorus of hoarse voices
yelling all together like a pack of wolves. Thin, ragged shapes shot in and out among the crowd,
ducked under horses' feet and cut wild zigzags across the street like flying goblins. The sense
of their cry was indistinguishable, but it was the same--the same inarticulate shape of sound
on every tongue. First one throat, then another took up the raucous singsong shout, then all
together again, as if the pack were in full cry on the scent of something. What was this fresh
quarry of the press, Flora wondered, that made it give tongue so hideously? The hunting note
of it made her want to cover her ears, and yet she strained to catch its meaning.

She had stooped her head to the carriage door, when Harry stopped and took one of the damp
papers from a crier in the pack. She saw the head-line. It covered half the sheet--the great
figure that was offered for the return of the Chatworth ring.

IX

ILLUMINATION

Just when the two ideas had coalesced in her mind Flora couldn't be sure. It had been some
time in the first dark hour that she had spent wide awake in her bed. There had been two ideas
distinctly. Two impressions of the evening remained with her; and the last one, the great figures
that had stared at her from the paper, the fact that had been Harry's secret, made common now
in round numbers, had for the moment swallowed up the first.

For all the way home that sum was kept before her by Clara's talk. She could remember nothing
of that talk except that it hadn't been able for a moment to leave the Chatworth ring alone.
It had been aimed at Harry, but it had fallen to Flora herself to answer Clara's quick speculations,
for Harry had been obstinately silent, though not indifferent, as if in his own mind he was
as unable to leave it alone as Clara. One with his silence, one with her talk, they had written
the figures of the reward so blazingly in Flora's mind that for the moment she could see nothing
else. Yet now she was alone her first adventure recurred to her. As soon as she was quiet in
the dark there came back with reminiscent terror the look that Kerr had given her in the box.
She wasn't really afraid of Kerr himself. She was afraid of the meaning of his look which she
didn't understand. It only established in her mind a great significance for the sapphire, if
it could produce such an expression on a human face. It had given him more than a mere expression.
It had given him an impulse for pursuit, as if, like a magnet, it was fairly dragging him.
He had covered his impulse by his very frankness, but she knew he had pursued her--that for
the matter of seeing her again he had hunted her down. And what had followed that? Why, she
was back again to the great figures in the paper.

At first it seemed as though she had taken a clean leap from one subject to another. She had
in no way connected them. But all at once they were connected. She couldn't separate them.
She didn't know whether she had been stupid not to have seen them so before, or whether she
was stupid to see them so now. For the thought that had sprung up in her mind was monstrous.
It startled her so broad awake that she sat up in bed to meet it the more alertly. She sat
up trembling. She felt like one who has walked a long way in a wood, hearing crafty footsteps
following in the bushes. And now the beast had sprung out, and she was panting, terrified,
not knowing which way to run.

The room was dark except for now and again the yellow square of light, from some passing cable
car, traveling along the ceiling. The four walls around her, their dark bulks of furniture
and light ripple of moving curtains, shut her up with this monster of her mind. The longer
she looked at it the less she felt sure it was real, and yet it was before her. It was there
with none of the loveliness of her first fancies about the ring. It was there with grisly reality.
It had not been conjured up. It had sprung upon her from the solid actualities of the night.
And, yes, of the day before--and the night before that. Oh, she had known well enough that
there had been something wrong at the goldsmith's shop. She had felt it even before she had
seen the sapphire; and afterward how it had held them, both herself and Harry! To have moved
Harry it must be something indeed! Had he suspected it then, or had he only wondered?

If he had suspected why hadn't he spoken of it? Well, her appalling fancy prompted, hadn't
he spoken of it?--though not to her. There flashed back to her the memory of him there in the
back of the shop with the blue-eyed Chinaman. How furiously he had assailed the little man!
How uneasily, with what a dissatisfied air he had looked at the ring even after it was on her
finger, as if, after all, he had not compassed what he had wanted. She could be almost sure
that the monstrous idea which had just overtaken her had, however fleetingly, flashed before
Harry's mind in the goldsmith's shop. But surely he couldn't have entertained it for a moment.
That was impossible, or he would never have let her take the sapphire--Harry, who had seen
the ring, the very Crew Idol itself, within the twenty-four hours.

"A little heathen god curled round himself with a big blue stone on the top-of his head." Harry
hadn't said what sort of stone it was; but Kerr had said it was a sapphire. There was a sapphire
on her hand now. She touched it with her finger-tips cautiously, as if to touch something hot.
So near to her! In the same room with her! On her own hand! It was too much to be alone with
in the dark! She reached out softly, as if she feared to disturb some threatening presence
lurking around her, and lit the small night lamp on the low table by her bed. The shade was
yellow, and that contended with the blue of the sapphire, but couldn't break its light. With
the first flash of its splendor in her face she felt certainty threatening her. She shook the
ring quickly off her finger and it fell with a light clatter on the table's marble top--fell
with the sapphire face down, and all its light hidden. She took it up again a little fearfully,
as if it might have got some harm; and again while she looked at it it seemed to her that nothing
that happened about this jewel could be too extraordinary. If only it had been less wonderful,
less beautiful, she would not have felt so terribly afraid! She put it back on the table and
for a moment held her hand over it, as if she imprisoned a living thing.

Then, without looking again, she got out of bed and went to the window. It overlooked the dark
steep of the garden, the moving trees and the lighter plane of the water. She leaned out, far
out. Black housetops marched against the bay, and between them, light by light, her eyes followed
the street-lamps down to the shore. If one could recover from such a nightmare as she had it
would be by leaning out into and facing this wide soft dark. These shapeless roofs just below
her the night made mysterious; and yet they covered people that she knew--her friends--kind,
safe people! There had been nights when the city, through this very window, had seemed to her
a savage place; but now the wicked fear that stood behind her--the fear that had got inside
her house, that had slipped unseen through the circle of friends, that stood behind her now,
filling her own room with its shadowy menace--had transformed the city into a very haven of
security.

Oh, to escape out of this window into the innocent, sleeping city, away from the horror at
her back! To look in from the outside and be even sure there was a horror! And if there was,
to run away into the wide soft dark! But how did she know, her fantastic idea persisted, that
the sapphire wouldn't follow her--the sapphire itself--the embodiment of her fear? Then she
dared not be driven out.

But there was another way to be rid of it. The real idea occurred to her. How easy it would
be to take it--that beautiful thing--and throw it; throw it as hard as she could, and let the
night take care of it. The window was open, as if it stood ready, and there was the ring on
the table. She went to it, looked at it a moment without touching it, holding her hands away.

Then with a little shiver she backed away from it and sat down on the foot of the bed. She
looked pale and little, as if the eye of the ring, blazing under the feeble lamp, like the
evil eye, had sapped her fire and youth. The only thing about her of any size and color was
the heavy braid of hair fallen over her shoulder. She hugged her arms around her updrawn knees,
and resting her chin upon them eyed the sapphire bravely.

"What shall I do with you?" she somberly inquired of it. "You are a dreadful thing. I don't
know where you came from nor what you are, but I am afraid--I am afraid you are--" She hesitated.
The sapphire lay shining like some idol set up for worship, and in spite of herself its beauty
moved her, if not to worship, at least to awe and fear.

"I suppose you know I can't throw you away," she murmured, "and yet I can't keep you!" She
pondered, chin in hand. To take it to Harry! That seemed the natural thing to do--the simplest
way to be rid of it. She hesitated.

"If I only knew! If I only were sure!" She locked her fingers closer, staring hard. If it had
been the whole Crew Idol, the undismembered god himself, then there would have been less terror,
and one plain thing to do. She looked hard at the sapphire setting, as if she hoped to discover
upon its brilliance some tell-tale trace of old soft gold; but there was only one great, glassy,
polished eye, and out of what head it had come, whether from the forehead of the Crew Idol,
or from that of some unheralded deity, who was there who could tell her?

She tried to summon a coherent thought, but again it was only a flash out of the darkness.

"Kerr! Why, he knows more than I." She looked at this stupidly for a moment as if it were too
large to take in at once. Of course he must have known! Why hadn't she thought of that before?
Why hadn't she thought of it that first moment, when he had turned on her in the box with such
terrible eyes? She drew in her shoulders, looking all around at the dim corners of the room
which the lamp flame failed to penetrate. Behind her present lively fear a second shadow was
growing, more dim, more formless, more vast and dubious.

What series of circumstances might have led up to Kerr's knowledge she could not dream. He
was one of whom nothing was incredible. From the first moment his face had shot into the light,
from the moment she had heard his voice, like color in the level voices around him, she had
been bewildered by his variety. He had caught her up to the clouds. He had whirled her along
dubious levels, and more than once he had shown her that the lines she had supposed drawn so
sharply between this and that could no more be discerned than meridians on green earth.

If she had noticed any earnestness in him, it was his relish, his gusto for the whole of life.
He had no theory to set up. Just as it was he took it. If he persisted in requiring people
to be themselves it was for no good to themselves, but for the pleasure he himself got out
of it. If he made society into a little ball, and threw it away, it was only to show it could
be done.

And where, she asked herself in a summing up, might such a man not be found? But there were
few places, indeed, in even the broadest plain of possibility, which could hold knowledge of
so particular and piercing a quality as his look had implied. There had been so much more than
curiosity or surprise in it. She could hardly face the memory of it, so cruelly it had struck
her. There was no doubt in her mind that Kerr had seen the ring. Somewhere in the pageant of
his experience he had met it, known it--but what he wanted of it--

She broke off that thought, and looked long at the little flame of the lamp. It was strange,
but there was no doubt in her mind but that he wanted it. That had been the strongest thing
in his look. She felt herself picking her way along a very narrow path, one step over either
edge of which would plunge her chasms deep. Now she snatched at a frail sapling to save herself.
The fact that Kerr knew her stone didn't prove it belonged to the Crew Idol. And if it didn't--if
it wasn't the crown of the heathen god, then her whole dreadful supposition fell to pieces.
But she hadn't proved it and the simplest way was just to ask Kerr. Her chance for that was
the chance he had fought so hard for, the chance of their meeting the next day.

She hadn't wanted that meeting when he had first asked her for it in the box. She had feared
it then, and all the more she feared it now, because now she would have to do more than defend
herself. She would take the offensive; she would make the attack, now that she had a question
to ask. Why should the thought of it frighten her? If this was not the Crew sapphire she would
be no worse off than she had been. If it was, her course would be clear. It seemed it should
be simple, it should be easy to face Kerr with her question; but she was possessed by the apprehension
that it would be neither. Would the question she had to ask be a safe thing to give him? And
if she dared undertake it and should be overpowered after all--then everything would be lost.

What the "everything" was she feared to lose would not come clear to her. The only thing that
did emerge definitely from the agitation of her mind was the knowledge that this question that
had been thrust upon her made it tenfold more difficult to meet Kerr. And yet, to refuse to
meet him now would be as cowardly as throwing the ring out of the window.

X

A LADY UNVEILED

She wakened in the morning to some one knocking. She thought the sound had been going on for
a long time, but, now she was finally roused, it had stopped. This was odd, for no one came
to her in the morning except Marrika, and it was tiresome to be thus imperatively beset before
she was half awake. Now the knocking came again with a level, unimpatient repetition, and she
called, "Come in!" at which Clara, in a pale morning gown, promptly entered--an apparition
as cool and smooth and burnished as if she had spent the night, like a French doll, in tissue
paper.

Clara's coming in in the morning was an unheard-of thing. Flora was taken aback.

"Why, Clara!" She was blank with astonishment. She sat up, flushed and tumbled, and still blinking.
"I hope I didn't keep you knocking long."

"Oh, no, indeed; only three taps." Clara looked straight through Flora's astonishment, as if
there had been no such thing in evidence. She drew up a chair and sat down beside the bed.
It was a rocking-chair, but it did not sway with her calm poise. In the fine finish of her
morning attire, with her hands placidly folded on her knee, she made Flora feel taken at a
disadvantage, thus scarcely awake, disheveled and all but stripped. But Clara, if she looked
at anything but Flora's eyes, looked only at her hands, one and then the other as they lay
upon the coverlet.

"It isn't so very late," she said, "but I have ordered your breakfast. I thought you would
want it if you had that ten-o'clock appointment; and there is something I want to ask you before
you go out." Flora was conscious of a little apprehension. "It's about that place you talked
of taking for the summer." She felt vaguely relieved, though she had had no actual grounds
for anticipating an awkward question. "I came upon something in the oddest way you can imagine,"
Clara pursued her subject. "Had you any idea the Herricks were in straits?"

"The young Herricks?"

"Oh, no! The old Herricks, the Herricks, Mrs. Herrick whom you so much admire! Of course, one
isn't told; but they must be, to be willing to let the old place."

"Not the San Mateo place?" said Flora, with a stir of interest. She felt as astonished as if
some Confucian fanatic had set up his joss at auction.

Clara complacently nodded.

"Mrs. Herrick spoke to me herself. They don't want any publicity about it, but she had heard
that we were looking, and she did me the favor"--Clara smiled a little dryly--"of telling me
first."

Flora looked reflective. "I've never seen it, but they say it's beautiful."

"It is, in a way," Clara grudgingly admitted, "but it isn't new; and the ridiculous part is
that she will let it only on condition that it shall not be done over. It is in sufficiently
good shape, but it stands now just as Colonel Herrick furnished it forty years ago."

"Why, I should love that!" Flora frankly confessed, and gave a wistful glance at the walls
around her, wondering how long before the soft, dark bloom of time, of use and wont, should
descend on their crude faces.

"Well," Clara conceded, "at any rate we know it's genuine, and that's a consolation. The number
of imitations going about and the way people pick them up is appalling! While I was getting
that rug for you at Vigo's yesterday, Ella Buller came in and bought three imitation Bokharas,
with the greatest enthusiasm. She buys quantities, and she's always taken in. It is enough
to make one nervous about the people one sits next to at dinner there. One can not help suspecting
them of being some of Ella's bargains. I wonder, now, where she picked up that Kerr."

This finale failed to take Flora off her guard. "At any rate, he is odd enough to be genuine,"
she said with a gleam of malice.

"Oh, no doubt of that," Clara mildly assented, "but genuine what?"

"Why, gentleman at large," said Flora, and quickly wanted to recall it, for Clara's glance
seemed to give it a double significance. "I mean," she added, "just one of those chronic travelers
who have nothing else to do, and whose way must be paved with letters of introduction"--she
floundered. "At least, that was the idea he gave of himself." She broke off, doubly angry that
she had tried to explain Kerr, and tried to explain herself, when the circumstances required
nothing of the sort. She was sure Clara had not missed her nervousness, though Clara made no
sign. Her eyes only traveled a second time to Flora's hands, as if among the flare of red and
white jewels she was expecting to see another color. To Flora's palpitating consciousness this
look made a perfect connection with Clara's next remark.

"At least his manners are odd enough! There was a minute last night when he was really quite
startling."

Flora felt a small, warm spot of color increasing in the middle of each cheek. She drew a long
breath, as if to draw in courage. Then Clara had really seen! That smooth, blindish look of
hers, last night, had seen everything! And here she was owning up to it, and affably offering
herself as a confidante; and for what reason under the sun unless to find out what it was that
had so startled Kerr? Flora felt like crying out, "If you only knew what that thing may be,
you would never want to come nearer to it!"

"I am afraid he annoyed you, Flora."

The girl looked into the kindly solicitude of Clara's face with a hard, almost passionate incredulity.
Was that really all Clara had supposed?

"These Continentals," she went on, now lightly swaying to and fro in her chair, "have singular
notions of American women. They take us for savages, my dear."

"Then isn't it for us to show them that we are more than usually civilized? I can't run away
from him like a frightened little native."

"Of course not; but that is where I come in; it's what I'm for--to get rid of such things for
you." That small, cool smile made Flora feel more than ever the immature barbarian of her simile.
Clara sat throwing the protection of her superior knowledge and capability around her, like
a missionary garment; but Flora could have laughed with relief. Then Clara merely supposed
Kerr had been impertinent. Her little invasion had been really nothing but pure kindness and
protection; and Flora couldn't but feel grateful for it. Last night she had thought herself
so absolutely alone; and here was a friend coming forward again, and stepping between her and
the thing above all others she was helpless about--the real world.

Clara had risen, and stood considering a moment with that same sweet, impersonal eye which
Flora found it hardest to comprehend.

"What I mean," she explicitly stated, "is that if he should undertake to carry out his preposterous
suggestion, and call this afternoon, I am quite ready, if you wish, to take him off your hands."

This last took Flora's breath away. It had not occurred to her that Clara had overheard. It
shocked her, frightened her; and yet Clara's way of stating the fact, as if it were the most
natural thing in the world, made Flora feel that she herself was in the wrong to feel thus.
For, after all, Clara had been most tactful, most considerate and delicate in conveying her
knowledge, not hinting that Flora could have been in the slightest degree responsible for Kerr's
behavior; but simply sweetly taking it for granted that they, of course, were banded together
to exclude this outlander. Under her sense of obligation, and what she felt ought to be gratitude,
Flora floundered for words.

"You're very kind," she managed to get out; and that seemed to leave her committed to hand
Kerr over, tied hand and foot, when she wasn't at all sure she wanted to.

"Then shall I tell Mrs. Herrick that you will consider the house?" said Clara, already in the
act of departure. "She is to call to-day to go into it with me more thoroughly. Thus far we've
only played about the edges."

Her eyes strayed toward the dressing-table as she passed it, and as she reached the door she
glanced over the chiffonier. It was on the tip of Flora's tongue to ask if she had mislaid
something, when Clara turned and smiled her small, tight-curled smile, as if she were offering
it as a symbol of mutual understanding. Curiously enough, it checked Flora's query about the
straying glances, and made her wonder that this was the first time in their relation that she
had thought Clara sweet.

But there was another quality in Clara she did not lose sight of, and she waited for the closing
of a door further down the hall before she drew the sapphire from under her pillow.

With the knocking at the door her first act had been to thrust it there. The feeling that it
was going to be hard to hide was still her strongest instinct about it; but the morning had
dissipated the element of the supernatural and the horrid that it had shown her the night before.
It seemed to have a clearer and a simpler beauty; and the hope revived in her that its beauty,
after all, was the only remarkable thing about it.

Her conviction of the night before had sunk to a shadowy hypothesis. She knew nothing--nothing
that would justify her in taking any step; and her only chance of knowing more lay in what
she would get out of Kerr; for that he knew more about her ring than she, she was convinced.
She was afraid of him, yet, in spite of her fear, she had no intention of handing him over
to Clara. For on reflection she knew that Clara's offer must have a deeper motive than mere
kindness, and she had a most unreasonable feeling that it would not be safe. She felt a little
guilty to have seemed to take her companion's help, while she left her so much at sea as to
the real facts. But, after all, it was Clara who had forced the issue.

She thought a good deal about Clara while she was dressing. A good many times lately she had
looked forward to the fall, the time of her marriage, when their rather tense relationship
would be ended. This house in the country, which was to be her last little bachelor fling,
was to be Clara's last commission for her.

Think how she would, she could but feel as if she were ungratefully abandoning Clara. Clara
had done so well by her in their three years together! There surely must be immediately forthcoming
for such a remarkable person another large opportunity, and yet she couldn't help recalling
their first encounter in the particularly dull boarding-house where Clara was temporarily shelved;
where, nevertheless, she had not conceded an inch of her class, nor a ray of her luster to
circumstance. This surprising luster was the gloss of her body, the quality of her clothes
and accessories, the way she traveled and the way she smiled. It was the bloom of luxury she
kept about her person through all her varying surroundings. She had never to rise to the level
of a new position; she was there already; and she never came down.

Flora knew it was for just her air of being ready that she had trusted Clara, and for the three
years of their association she had never failed to find her companion ready wherever their
common interests were concerned. She had no reason for not trusting Clara now, except the knowledge
that, by her own approaching marriage, their interests would be separated, and her feeling
that Clara's prudence must already be by way of looking out for itself alone.

Yet Clara would do a kindness if it did not inconvenience her, and surely this morning she
had been kind. Still Flora felt she didn't want to reveal anything until she was a little surer
of her own position. When she knew better where she stood she would know what she could confide
to Clara. Meanwhile, if there was any one to whom she could turn now it would surely be Harry.

Yet, if she did, what a lot of awkward explanations! She could not return the sapphire without
giving a reason, and what a thing to explain--that she had not only worn it, but, in a freak,
shown it to the one of all people he most objected to.

Nevertheless the most sensible thing clearly was to go through with it and confess to Harry.
Then she must communicate with him at once. No--she would wait until after breakfast. There
was plenty of time. Kerr would not come until the afternoon. But after breakfast, she wondered
if it wouldn't be as well to ring him up at luncheon time? Then she would be sure of finding
him at the club.

Meanwhile she dared not let the sapphire out of her grasp; and yet she could not wear it on
her hand. She had thought of the tear-shaped pouch of gold which it was her custom to wear;
but the slender length of chain that linked it to her neck was too frail for such a precious
weight. At last she had fastened it around her neck on the strongest chain she owned, and thus
she carried it all the morning under her bodice with a quieter mind than had been hers on the
first day she had worn it, when there had been nothing to explain her uneasiness.

She was quite sure she was going to give back the sapphire to Harry, yet she couldn't help
picturing to herself what her meeting with Kerr would have been, supposing she had decided
differently. As the morning slipped by she found herself doubting that he would come at all.
Her attitude of the night before had surely been enough to discourage any one. Yet if he didn't
come she knew that she would be disappointed.

She was alone at luncheon, and in a dream. She glanced now and then at the clock. She rose
only ten minutes before the hour that Harry was in the habit of leaving the club. She went
up-stairs slowly and stopped in front of the telephone. She touched the receiver, drew her
hand back and turned away. She shut the door of her own rooms smartly after her.

She did not try to--because she couldn't--understand her own proceeding. She merely sat, listening,
as it seemed to her, for hours.

But when at last Kerr's card was handed in to her, it gave her a shock, as if something which
couldn't happen, and yet which she had all along expected, had come to pass.

In her instant of indecision Marrika had got away from her, but she called the girl back from
the door and told her to say to Mrs. Britton that Mr. Kerr had called, but that Miss Gilsey
would see him herself.

She started with a rush. Half-way down the stairs she stopped, horrified to find what her fingers
were doing. They were closed around the little lump that the ring made in the bosom of her
gown, and she had not known it. What if she had rushed in to Kerr with this extraordinary manifestation?
What if, while she was talking to him, her hand should continue to creep up again and yet again
to that place, and close around the jewel, and make it evident, even in its hiding-place? The
time had come when she must even hide it from herself. And yet, to creep back up the stair
when she made sure Kerr must have heard her tumultuous downward rush! It would never do to
soundlessly retreat. She must go back boldly, as if she had forgotten nothing more considerable
than a pocket handkerchief.

Yet before she reached the top again she found herself going tiptoe, as if she were on an expedition
so secret that her own ears should not hear her footsteps. But she went direct and unhesitating.
It had come to her all in a flash where she would put the sapphire. The little buttoned pocket
of her bath-robe. There it hung in the bath-room on one unvarying peg, the most immovable of
all her garments, safe from the excursions of Marrika's needle or brushes, not to be disturbed
for hours to come.

She passed through her bedroom, through her dressing-room into the bath-room. The robe was
hanging behind the door. It took her a moment to draw out the ring and disentangle its chain,
and while she was doing this she became aware of movings to and fro in her bedroom. She drew
the door half open, the better to conceal herself behind it, and at the same time, through
the widened crack of the jamb, to keep an eye on the dressing-room, and hurried lest Marrika
should surprise her. But nevertheless she had barely slipped the ring into the little pocket
and refastened the flap, when Clara opened the bedroom door and stood looking into the dressing-room.

Flora experienced a sharp start of surprise, and then of wonder. Here was Clara again seeking
her out! Here she stood, brushed and polished, and finished to a pitch of virtue, again taking
Flora at a disadvantage, hiding behind her own door. But at the least she was grateful that
Clara had not seen her. She stood a minute collecting herself. She wasn't doing anything she
need be ashamed of, or that she need explain, or that need even awaken suspicion. But before
she could take her courage in both hands and come out of her retreat, Clara had reached the
middle of the dressing-room, and stood still.

Her lifted veil made a fine mist above the luster of her eyes. She was perfect to the tips
of her immaculate white gloves, and she wore the simple, sober look of a person who thinks
himself alone. Then it wasn't Flora, Clara was looking for! She was looking all around--over
the surface of every object in the room. Presently she went up to the dressing-table. She laid
her gloved hands upon it, and looked at the small objects strewn over its top. She took a step
backward and opened the top drawer. She reached into it, and delicately explored.

Flora could see the white gloves going to and fro among her white handkerchiefs, could see
them find, open and examine the contents of her jewel-box. And the only thing that kept her
from shrieking out was the feeling that this abominable thing which was being enacted before
her eyes couldn't be a fact at all.

Clara took out an old pocket-book, shiny with years, shook from it a shower of receipts, newspaper
clippings, verses. She let them lie. She took out a long violet box with a perfumer's seal
upon it. It held a bunch of dried violets. She took out a bonbonnière of gold filigree. It
was empty. A powder box, a glove box, a froth of lace, a handful of jewelers' boxes, a jewel
flung loose into the drawer. This she pounced upon. It was a brooch! She let it fall--turned
to the chiffonier; upended the two vases of Venetian glass, lifted the lids of jars and boxes,
finally came to the drawers. One by one she took them out, turned the contents of each rapidly
over, and left them standing, gaping white ruffles and lace upon the floor. She took up daintily,
in her white kid fingers, slippers, shook them upside down. She opened the door of the closet,
and disappeared within. There was audible the flutterings of all the distressed garments, with
little busy pauses. Then Clara came out, with her hat a little crooked; and stood in the middle
of the room still with her absorbed and sober face, looking over the gaping drawers, pulled
out and rifled, with their contents heaped up and streaming over the floor.

Her eye fell upon the waste basket. She turned it upside down, and stooped over the litter.
She gathered it up in her white gloves and dropped it back. Then, for the first time, she glanced
at the bath-room door; stood looking at it, as if it had occurred to her to look in the soap
dish. Then she turned again to the room, to the dressing-table. She put back the paste-board
jewelers' boxes, the jeweled pin, the laces, which she shook out and folded daintily, the glove
and powder boxes, the gold bonbonnière, the long violet box, the leather pocket-book,--each
deftly and unhesitatingly in the place from which she had taken it, and all the heaps of white
handkerchiefs.

One by one she laid back in the chiffonier drawers, the garments, properly and neatly folded,
that she had so hastily snatched out of them. The sun, streaming full into the room, caught
gleams in her pale hair, and struck blindingly upon the heaps of white around her, and made
two dazzling points of her gloved hands that moved as deftly as hands uncovered. She slid back
the last drawer into the chiffonier, and rose from her knees, lightly dusting off the front
of her gown; went to the closet door and closed it. She stood before it a moment with a face
perplexed and thoughtful, then turned alertly toward the outer door. As she passed the mirror
she looked into it, and touched her hat straight again, but the action was subconscious. Clara
wasn't thinking of it.

Flora stood as if she were afraid to move, while Clara crossed her bedroom, stopped, went on
and closed the outer door behind her. And even after that soft little concussion she stood
still, burning, choking, struggling with the overwhelming force of an affront whose import
she did not yet realize. Out in her sunny dressing-room all the outraged furniture stood meek
and in order, frauding the eye to believe that nothing had happened! She felt she couldn't
look things in the face a moment longer. She hid her face in the folds of her dressing-gown.

Why, she had thought that such things couldn't happen! She had thought that people's private
belongings, like their persons, were inviolable. They all always talked, she had talked, about
such things as if they were mere nothings. They had talked about the very taking of the Crew
Idol as if it were a splendid joke! But she had not dreamed what such things were like when
they were near. When they were held up to you naked they were like this! In the shame of it
she could no more have faced Clara than if she had surprised Clara naked.

She snatched the ring out of the pocket of her gown and clutched it in her hand. Was there
no place in the world where she could be sure of safety for this?

With trembling fingers she fastened it again to the chain about her neck. She thought of Kerr
down-stairs waiting for her. Well, she would rather keep it with her. Then, at least, she would
know when it was taken from her. Still in the fury of her outraged faith, she passed through
her violated rooms, and slowly along the hall and down the stairs.

XI

THE MYSTERY TAKES HUMAN FORM

He turned from the window where he had presented a long, drooping, patient back, and his warm,
ironic mirth--the same that had played with her the first night--flashed out at sight of her.
But after a moment another expression mixed with it, sharpened it, and fastened upon her with
an incredulous intentness.

She stood on the threshold, pale, and brilliant still in her blaze of anger, equal, at last,
to anything. Kerr, as he signaled to her with every lineament of his enlivened face, his interest,
his defiance, his uncontrollability, was not the man of her imaginary conversations. He was
not here to be used and disposed of; but, as he came toward her, the new admiration in his
face was bringing her reassurance that neither was she. The thought that her moment of bitter
incredulity had made her formidable gave her courage to fight even him, of whom she was so
much in awe; gave her courage even to smile, though she grew hot at the first words he spoke.

"You should not be brave and then run away, you know."

She thought of her rush up the stairs again. "I had to go back to see Mrs. Britton." (Oh, how
she had seen her!)

It seemed to Flora that everything she had been through in the last few moments was blazoned
on her face. But he only looked a little more gravely at her, though his sardonic eye-brow
twitched.

"Ah, I thought you only ran back to hide in your doll's house."

She laughed. Such a picture of her!

"Well, at any rate, now I've come out, what have you to say to me?"

"Now you've come out," he repeated, and looked at her this time with full gravity, as if he
realized finally how far she'd come.

She had taken the chair in the light of the eastern windows. She lay back in the cushions,
her head a little bent, her hands interlaced with a perfect imitation of quietude. The dull
satin of her slender foot was the only motion about her, but the long, slow rise and fall of
her breath was just too deep-drawn for repose.

He looked down upon her from his height.

"I'm sorry I frightened you last night," he said, "but I'm not sorry I came, since you've seen
me. You needn't have, you know, if you didn't want to. You could have stayed in the doll's
house; and there, I suppose, you think I should never have found you--or it again?"

He was silent a moment, leaning on the chair opposite, watching her with knitted forehead,
while her apprehension fluttered for what he should do next. He had done away with all the
amenities of meeting and attacked his point with a directness that took her breath.

"You know what I've come for," he said, "but now I'm here, now that I see you, I wonder if
there's something I haven't reckoned on." He looked at her earnestly. "If you think I've taken
advantage of you--if you say so--I'll go away, and give you a chance to think it over."

It would have been so easy to have nodded him out, but instead she half put out her hand toward
him. "No; stay."

He gave her a quick look--surprise and approbation at her courage. He dropped into a chair.
"Then tell me about it."

Flora's heart went quick and little. She held herself very still, afraid in her intense consciousness
lest her slightest movement might betray her. She only moved her eyes to look up at him questioningly,
suspending acknowledgment of what he meant until he should further commit himself.

"I mean the sapphire," he said. He waited.

"Yes," she answered coolly. "I saw that it interested you last night, but I couldn't think
especially why. It's a beautiful stone."

He laughed without a sound--shook noiselessly for a minute. "Meaning that a gentleman shouldn't
pounce upon any beautiful stone he may happen to see?" He got up and moved about restlessly
in the little space between their two chairs. "Quite so; lay it to my being more than a gentleman;
lay it to my being a crack-brained enthusiast, a confounded beauty worshiper, a vicious curio
dealer, an ill-mannered ass! But"--and he flashed around at her with a snap of his nervous
fingers--"where did you get it?"

For the life of her she couldn't help her wave of color, but through it all she clung to her
festal smile. Sheer nervousness made it easy.

"Well, suppose it was begged, borrowed, or--given to me? Suppose it came from here or far away
yonder? What's that to do with its beauty?" She gave him question for question. "Did you ever
see it before?"

He never left off looking at her, looking at her with a hard inquiry, as if she were some simple
puzzle that he unaccountably failed to solve.

"That's rather neat, the way you dodge me," he said, dodging in his turn. "But I don't see
it now. You're not wearing it?"

She played indifference with what a beating heart! "Oh, I only wear it off and on."

"Off and on!" His voice suddenly rang at her. "Off and on! Why, my good woman, it's just two
days you could have worn it at all!"

She stood up--stood facing him. For a moment she knew nothing except that her horrible idea
was a fact. She had the eye of the Crew Idol, and this man knew it! Yet the fact declared gave
her courage. She could face his accusal if only he could give the reason for it. But after
a moment, while they looked silently at each other, she saw he was not accusing her. He was
threatening her and beseeching her indulgence in the same look. He opened his lips, hesitated,
turned sharp about and walked away from her.

She watched him with increasing doubt. After saying so much, was he going to say nothing more?
She had a feeling that she had not heard the worst yet, and when he turned back to her from
the other end of the room there was something so haggard, so harassed, so fairly guilty about
him that if she had ever thought of telling him the truth of how she came by the ring she put
it away from her now.

But beneath his distress she recognized a desperate earnestness. There was something he wanted
at any cost, but he was going to be gentle with her. She had felt before the potentiality of
his gentleness, and she doubted her power to resist it. She fanned up all the flame of anger
that had swept her into the room. She reminded herself that the greatest gentleness might only
be a blind; that there was nothing stronger than wanting something very much, and that the
protection of the jewel was very thin. But when he stood beside her she realized he held a
stronger weapon against her than his gentleness, something apart from his intention. She felt
that in whatever circumstance, at whatever time she should meet him he would make her feel
thus--hot and cold, and happy for the mere presence of his body beside her. In a confusion
she heard what he was saying.

He was speaking, almost coaxingly, as if to a child. "I understand," he was saying. "I know
all about it. It's a mistake. But surely you don't expect to keep it now. It will only be an
annoyance to you."

She turned on him. "What could it be to you?"

Kerr, planted before her, with his head dropped, looked, looked, looked, as if he gave silence
leave to answer for him what it would. It answered with a hundred echoes ringing up to her
from long corridors of conjecture, half-articulated words breathing of how extraordinary the
answer must be that he did not dare to make. He looked her up and down carefully, impersonally,
with that air he had of regarding a rare specimen, thoughtfully; as if he weighed such ephemeral
substance as chance.

"What will you take for it?" he said at last.

She was silent. With a sick distrust it came to her that it was the very worst thing he could
have said after that speaking silence.

She stepped away from him. "This thing is not for sale."

He stared at her with amazement; then threw back his head and laughed as if something had amused
him above all tragedy.

"You are an extraordinary creature," he said, "but really I must have it. I can't explain the
why of it; only give the sapphire to me, and you'll never be sorry for having done that for
me. Whatever happens, you may be sure I won't talk. Even if the thing comes out, you shan't
be mixed up in it." He had come near her again, and the point of his long forefinger rested
on her arm. She was motionless, overwhelmed with pure terror, with despair. He was smiling,
but there was a desperate something about him, stronger than the common desire of possession,
terrifying in its intensity. She looked behind her. The thick glass of the window was there,
a glimpse of the empty street and the figure of a woman in a blowing green veil turning the corner.

"Why not give it to me now," he urged, "since, of course, you can't keep it? I could have it
now in spite of you."

Everything in her sprang up in antagonism to meet him. "I know what you are," she cried, "but
you shan't have it. You have no more right to it than I. You can't get it away from me, and
I shan't give it to you."

He had grown suddenly paler; his eyes were dancing, fastened upon her breast. His long hands
closed and opened. She looked down, arrested at the sight of her hand clenched just where her
breath was shortest, over the sapphire's hiding-place.

He smiled. How easily she had betrayed herself! But she abated not a jot of her defiance, challenging
him, now he knew its hiding-place, to take the sapphire if he could. But he did not move. And
it came to her then that she had been ridiculous to think for an instant that this man would
take anything from her by force. What she had to fear was his will at work upon hers, his persuasion,
his ingenuity. She thought of the purple irises, and how he had drawn them toward him in the
crook of his cane--and her dread was lest he meant to overcome her with some subtlety she could
not combat. For that he was secret, that he was daring, that he was fearless beyond belief,
he showed her all too plainly, since here he stood, condemned by his own evidence, alone, in
the midst of her household, within call of her servants, and had the sublime effrontery to
look at her with admiration, and, it occurred to her, even with a little pity.

The click of a moving latch brought his eyes from hers to the door.

"Some one is coming in," he said in a guarded voice. It warned her that her face showed too
much, but she could not hope to recover her composure. She hardly wanted to. She was in a state
to fancy that a secret could be kept by main force; and she turned without abatement of her
reckless mood and took her hand from where she had held it clenched upon her breast and stretched
it out to Mrs. Herrick.

The lady had stood in the doorway a moment--a long-featured, whitish, modeled face, draped
in a dull green veil, a tall figure whose flowing skirts of black melted away into the background
of the hall--before she came forward and met her hostess' hand with a clasp firm and ready.

"I'm so glad to find you here," she said. She looked directly into Flora's eyes, into the very
center of her agitation. She held her tremulous hand as if neither of these manifestations
surprised her; as if a young woman and a young man in colloquy might often be found in such
a state of mind.

Flora's first emotion was a guilty relief that, after all, her face had not betrayed Kerr.
But she had no sooner murmured his name to Mrs. Herrick, no sooner had that lady's gray eyes
lighted upon him, than they altered their clear confidence. The situation as reflected in Flora
looked naïve enough, but there was nothing naïve about Kerr. The very perfection of his coolness,
there in the face of her burning agitation, was appalling. Oh, why couldn't he see, Flora thought
wildly, how it was damning him--how it was showing him so practised, so marvelously equal to
any emergency, that his presence here among fleeces could be nothing less than wolfish?

Mrs. Herrick's face was taking on an expression no less than wary. What he was, Mrs. Herrick
could not dream. She could not even suspect what Flora believed. But in the light of her terrible
discovery Flora dared not have him suspected at all. The chasms of distrust and suspicion that
had been opening between them she forgot. In a flash she was ready to throw herself in front
of this man, to cover him from suspicion, even though by so doing she took it upon herself.

Now, if she had ever in her life, she talked over the top of her feelings; and though at first
to her ears her voice rang out horribly alone, presently Mrs. Herrick was helping her, adding
words to words. It was the house they spoke of, the San Mateo house, the subject about which
Flora knew Mrs. Herrick had come to talk; but to Flora it was no longer a subject. It was a
barrier, a shield. In this emergency it was the only subject large enough to fill the gap,
and much as Flora had liked the idea of it, she had never built the house so large, so vivid,
so wonderfully towering to please her fancy as she was doing now to cover Kerr. With questions
she led Mrs. Herrick on to spin out the subject, to play it over with lights and shades, to
beat all around it. And all the while she knew that Kerr was watching her; watching her once
again in dubious admiration. It was a look that made Mrs. Herrick seem ready at a movement
of his to lay her hand on Flora in protection.

The lady's clear gray eyes traveled between Flora's face and his. Under their steady light
there was a strange alertness, as if she sat there ready enough to avert whatever threatened,
but anxious to draw her skirts aside from it, distrusting the quality, hating to have come
in upon anything so dubious. When the hall door opened and closed she listened as if for a
deliverer; and when Clara appeared between the portières she turned to her and met her with
a flash of relief, as if here at last was a safe quantity. Clara was still wearing her hat,
with the veil pushed up in a little mist above her eyes, and still had her white gloves on.
The sight of Mrs. Herrick's hand soliciting the clasp of those gave Flora a curious sensation.

She looked from one face to another, and last at Kerr's. She shut her eyes an instant. Here
was a thief. He was standing in her drawing-room now. She had been talking with him. She opened
her eyes. The fact acknowledged had not altered the color of daylight. It was strange that
things--furniture and walls and landscape--should remain so stolidly the same when such a thing
had happened to her! For she had not only spoken with a thief, but she had shielded him. It
struck her grotesquely that perhaps Mrs. Herrick's instinct was right, after all. Wasn't Clara
the safest of the lot? Clara at least kept her gloves on, while she herself was shamelessly
arrayed on the side of disorder. She was clinging to a piece of property that wasn't hers,
and whatever way she dressed her motives they looked too much of a piece with the operations
of the original miscreant.

Flora saw the evil spirit of tragic-comedy. He fairly grinned at her.

XII

DISENCHANTMENT

Then this was the end of all romance? She must turn her back on the charm, the power, the spell
that had been wrought around her, and, horror-struck, pry into her own mind to discover what
lawless thing could be in her to have drawn her to such a person, and to keep her, even now
that she knew the worst, unwilling to relinquish the thought of him. His depravity loomed to
her enormous; but was that all there was to be said of him? Did his delicacy, his insight,
his tempered fineness, count for nothing beside it? Must their talks, their walking through
the trees, the very memory of his voice, be lost inspiration?

She couldn't believe that this one spot could make him rotten throughout. Her mind ran back
into the past. She could not recall a word, an action, or a glance of his that had shown the
color of decay. He had not even been insincere with her. He had come out with his convictions
so flatly that when she thought of it his nonchalance appalled her. He had been the same then
that he was now. But the thing that was natural for him was impossible for her, and she had
found it out--that was all.

Yet the mere consideration of him and his obsession as one thing was intolerable. She curiously
separated his act from himself. She thought of it, not as a part of him, but as something that
had invaded him--a disease--something inimical to himself and others, that mixed the thought
of him with terrors, and filled her way with difficulties. Now it was no longer a question
of how to meet him, but of how she was not to. It was not his strength she feared, but her
own weakness where he was concerned. Her tendency to shield him--she must guard against that--and
that disturbing influence he exercised over her, too evidently without intention. But he would
be hard to avoid. This way and that she looked for a way out of her danger, yet all the while
she was conscious that there was but one plain way of escape open to her. She could give the
sapphire back to Harry within the twenty-four hours.

XIII

THRUST AND PARRY

     MY DEAR FLORA--I am going out early and shall not be back to
     dinner.                                            CLARA.

Flora let the little note fall as if she disliked the touch of it. She was relieved to think
she would not have to see Clara that day. It was her desire never to see Clara again. If only
they could part here and now! How she wanted to shake the whole thing off her shoulders! How
foolish not to have gone to Harry when she had first made up her mind to! For why, after all,
make him any explanations? Suppose she should just take the ring to him and say: "It gives
me the shivers, Harry. Let's take it back and get something else." If he didn't suspect the
sapphire already, he would never suspect it from that. The worst he could do would be to laugh,
to tease, to tell her she could not live up to her own romantic notions, since, after all,
she had weakened and was wanting the usual thing.

But there had been times when she had thought that he did suspect the sapphire. Well, if he
did, giving it back to him would practically be giving it back into public custody in the most
decorous manner for a properly bred young woman. And how beautifully it would extricate her
from her wretched situation! Logically, there was no fault to be found with such a course.
It was eminently sane and safe. Yet it still appeared to her as if she were acting a coward's
part. She was neither frankly giving the jewel to the authorities with the proper information,
nor frankly handing it over to Kerr. But she was trying to slip it back into the questionable
nook from which it had been taken, and she grew hot at the thought of how Kerr would despise
her if he knew the craven course she was meditating. She seemed to hear him saying, "I had
thought braver things of you."

Of course, that was his way of expecting that she would give him the ring. And she felt a sort
of rage against him that he should want that, and only that, so very much. Yet she didn't know
what else she wanted him to want. Every time she thought of Kerr she found herself growing
unreasonable; and she had to whip up her resolution with the hard facts of the case to prevent
herself from drifting over on to his side completely.

But did she really want Harry to rid her of the ring? She would get hold of him first and then
she would see what she would do.

She stepped into the hall with all the confidence of one who has fully made up her mind to
carry matters with a high hand; but at the telephone she hesitated. Calling him up at such
an hour of the morning demanding his attendance on such a fanciful errand--wouldn't he think
it odd? No, he would think it the most natural thing in the world for her to be so flighty.
Reassured, she gave the club number and stood waiting, listening to the half-syllables of switched-off
voices and the crossing click, click, that was bringing her fate nearer to her. She heard some
one coming up the stairs and down the hall toward her. Marrika stood stolid at her elbow.

"Mr. Cressy," she pronounced.

"Yes, yes," said Flora, with the club clamoring in her left ear.

"He is down-stairs," said Marrika.

Flora nearly let the receiver fall. Harry here? What a piece of luck! But here on his own account,
at such an hour--how extraordinary!

"Hello, hello," persisted the club. "What's wanted?"

"Why, I--" Flora stammered. "It's a mistake; never mind. I don't want him now." She hoped that
Harry had not heard her as he came in, since it was his informal fashion to await her in the
large entrance hall. She didn't want to spoil the chance he had given her of seeming offhand
about the ring. But the hall was empty, and as she descended the stairs she amused herself
with the fancy that Shima had had a vision, and that she would still have to ring up the club
and explain to the attendant that, after all, she wanted Mr. Cressy.

Then from the drawing-room threshold she caught sight of Harry standing in the big bay window
of the drawing-room, in the same spot where Kerr had awaited her the afternoon before. Harry
was tall and large and freshly colored, and yet he did not fill the room to her as the other
man had done. He met her, kissed her, and she turned her head so that his lips met her cheek
close beside her ear. She did not positively object to his kissing her on the lips, but her
instinct was strong to offer him her cheek. He had sometimes laughed at this, but now he resented
it. He insisted on his privilege, and she was passive to him, conscious of less love in this
than assertion of possession.

"You are not going to Burlingame, are you?" she asked him with her first breath.

He looked down at her with a flushed and sulky air. "What difference would that make to you?
I am, as it happens, but I suppose you think that's no reason for disturbing you so early."
He was angry, but at what, she wondered, with creeping uneasiness. He held her and caressed
her with a morose satisfaction, as if he had to make sure to himself that she was really his,
and she permitted it and abetted it with a guile that astonished her.

"What is the matter?" she urged. "Are things going crookedly at Burlingame?"

"Things are going as crooked as you please, but not at Burlingame. Sit over there," he said,
nodding toward the window-bench; "I want to talk to you."

Harry had the air of one about to scold, and certainly Flora thought if anybody was carrying
matters with a high hand, it wasn't herself; but she didn't follow his direction. She continued
to stand, while he, sitting on the table's edge, drumming the top of his hat, gloomily regarded
her.

"Well?" she persisted, troubled by this look of his, and this silence.

"Look here," he began, "I have to be away a couple of days and I wish you'd do me a favor."

Flora's thought flew to the ring. Was he going to ask for it back, to have it reset, as he
had promised on the threshold of the goldsmith's shop? Here might be the chance she had hoped
for of getting rid of it. She grasped at it before she had time to waver.

"I wonder if it's the very favor I was going to ask of you."

But he didn't take it up. He seemed hardly to hear her, as if his mind was too much absorbed
with quite another question--a question that the next moment came out flat. "What was that
Kerr doing here yesterday?"

She was taken aback, so far had her apprehension of Harry's jealousy slipped into the background
in the last twenty-four hours. But her consciousness that Harry was not behaving well, even
for a jealous man, made her take it up all the more lightly.

"Why, he was calling, chatting, taking tea--what anybody else would do from four to six. What
in the world gave you the idea that he was doing anything extraordinary?"

"Well," he said, "you shouldn't do the sort of thing that makes you talked about."

"'That makes me talked about'?" It made her pause in front of him.

"Why, yes, it isn't like you. It's never happened before. Look here. I drop into the Bullers'
yesterday; find Clara sidled up to the judge; look around for you. 'Hello,' I say, 'where's
Flora?' 'Oh,' says she, 'Flora's at home amusing Mr. Kerr.' 'Amusing Mr. Kerr!'" he repeated.
"That's a nice thing to hear."

Flora went red. She walked down the room from him to give her suddenly tumultuous heart time.
However little he might guess the real trend of her interview with Kerr, she couldn't hear
him come near it without apprehension. She was angry, helplessly angry at Harry that he had
taken this moment for his stupid jealousy. But she was more angry at Clara, since such a speech
on Clara's part wasn't carelessness. She had meant it to work upon him, and here he stood,
like the fine animal that he was, smoldering with the suspicion of encroachment on his prey.

She tried to laugh him out of it.

"Why, Harry, I never saw you jealous before!"

"It's all very well to say that--and you know I've never made a row about the other Johnnies.
I knew you didn't care for any of them."

Her eyes narrowed and darkened.

"And you take it for granted I care for Mr. Kerr?"

"Oh, no, no!" He pushed his hand through his hair with an irascible gesture. "But it's plain
enough you like him--you women always like a fellow that flourishes--but that's not the sort
of man I care to see hanging around my girl."

Flora stood leaning on the table, breathing a little hurriedly, feeling rather as if she had
been shaken. Harry, standing with his hands in his pockets, looked not unlike the threatening
image he had appeared in the back of the goldsmith's shop.

"Of course, the fellow can talk," he admitted, "and he has a manner. But Lord knows where he
comes from or who he is. Why, even the Bullers don't know."

Flora turned sharply on him. "Who told you that?"

"The judge. He picked him up at the club."

"Well," she kept it up, "some one had to introduce him there."

Harry smiled. "You wouldn't care to bow to some of those club members."

"Harry, do you know how you sound to me?" She was trembling at the daring of what she was going
to say. "You talk as if you knew something against him."

Her statement seemed to bring him up short. "No, no, I don't," he said hastily.

She made a little gesture of despair. How was she to count on Harry if he was going to behave
like this? How trust him when he was shuffling so?

She made one more bold stroke to make him speak out.

"Harry, you do know something about him! I know you have seen him before."

"Why, yes, I've seen him before. But that's got nothing to do with it."

He looked surprised that she should seem to accuse him of it, and she wondered if he could
have forgotten how he had denied it before.

"And that isn't why you distrust him?"

The devil's tattoo that he beat on his hat stopped.

"I don't distrust him."

"Well, dislike him, then. When was it that you saw him before?"

"Isn't it enough for me to tell you that I don't want you to see him?"

"Oh!" She turned away from him. Every nerve in her was in revolt. Then he really wasn't going
to tell her anything. He was keeping her out of it as if she were a child. She had relied on
him to return the ring. She had counted upon his indifference and good nature. And he was neither
indifferent nor good-natured. All desire of even mentioning the ring to him left her; and as
to giving him her confidence--These hints that he had thrown out about Kerr--they might be
mere jealousy--but he might have actual knowledge, knowledge that, with her own fitted to it,
would make for him a complete figure. She caught her breath at the thought of how near she
had come to actually betraying Kerr. Until that moment she had not realized that through all
her waverings her one fixed intention had been not to betray him.

Harry had risen and was buttoning his overcoat. "You know you're never at home if you don't
want to be," he said.

She stood misleadingly drooping before him. But though her appearance was passive enough for
the most exacting lover her will had never been in more vigorous revolt. She knew Harry was
taking her weariness for acquiescence, and she let him take it so. She even followed him into
the hall, and with a vague idea of further propitiation, nodded away Shima and opened the door
for him herself.

The fog was a chasm of white outside. Harry turned on the brink of it. "By the way, where's Clara?"

"Why, do you want to see her? She'll be out all day. She's dining with the Willie Herricks."

"No, I don't want to see her, but, by the way, she's not dining with the Willie Herricks; she's
dining with the Bullers. I heard her make the engagement yesterday."

"Oh, no, Harry, I'm sure you're mistaken."

"Well, it doesn't matter. All I want to know is, why did you show that ring to Clara before
it was set?"

She was genuinely aghast. "I didn't," she flashed. "What made you think I had?"

He shrugged. "Well, she asked me where we got it. I don't see why women always talk those things
over." He was looking at her inquiringly.

"Well, I haven't," she said quickly. "Have you?"

He looked out upon the fog. "Told her where we got it, do you mean? No, I just chaffed her.
I'd look out, if I were you. She strikes me as damned curious." He stood a moment on the threshold,
looking from Flora to the chasm of fog outside, as if he were choosing between two chances.
"I think I'll take that ring this morning," he said slowly.

The deliberate words came to her with a shock. But in the moment, while she looked into Harry's
moody face, she realized how impossible to make a scene over what must still be maintained
as a trivial matter betwixt them--the mere resetting of a jewel; what should she do to put
him off? She looked up at him, and saw with relief that his face was turned from her to the
fog, as if he had forgotten her. Then, still with averted head, as if he addressed the whiteness,
or himself,--"No," he determined, "I won't. I'll take it when I come back." He pulled himself
together with an effort, with a smile. "That is," he turned to her, "if you're in no great
hurry about the setting? Very well, then. In a day or two."

He plunged away into the fog. A few rods from the door he disappeared, but she could still
hear his footsteps growing thinner, lighter, passing away in the whiteness.

XIV

COMEDY CONVEYS A WARNING

She stood where he had left her in the open doorway, with the damp eddy of the fog blowing
on her. She had had a narrow escape; but after the first fullness of her relief there returned
upon her again the weight of her responsibility. There was no slipping out of it now, and it
was going to be worse than she had imagined. So much had come out in the last half-hour that
she felt bewildered by it. What Harry had let slip about Clara alarmed her. What in the world
was Clara about? With one well-aimed observation she had stirred up Harry against Kerr and
against Flora herself. And meanwhile she was running after the Bullers. Twice in two days,
if Harry was not mistaken, and she was even nearing another engagement.

After all her fruitless mousings, Clara had too evidently got on the scent of something at
last. How much she knew or guessed as yet, Flora could not be sure, but certainly, now, she
couldn't let Clara go. For that would be turning adrift a dangerous person with a stronger
motive than ever for pursuing her quest, and the opportunity for pursuing it unobserved, out
of Flora's sight. Clara was at it even now, and the only consolation Flora had was that Harry,
at least, would not play into her hands.

For Harry had a special secret interest of his own. The last ten minutes of their interview
had made that plain. His manner, when he had declared his intention of taking the ring, had
been anything but the manner of a care-free lover merely concerned with pleasing his lady.
Then they were all of them racing each other for the same thing--the thing she held in her
possession; and whether she feared most to be felled by a blow from Harry, or hunted far afield
by Kerr, or trapped by Clara, she could not tell. She stood hesitating, looking out into the
obscurity of the fog, as if she hoped to read the answer there. Presently she returned to the
fact that Shima was waiting to close the door. Half-way across the hall she paused again, looking
thoughtfully down the rose-colored vista of the drawing-room, and up at the broad black march
of the stair. Vague mysteries peered at her from every side. Which should she flee from? Which
walk boldly up to and dispel?

She went up-stairs slowly. She stood in her dressing-room absently before the mirror. She touched
the hard, unyielding stone of the ring under the thin bodice of her gown. She recalled the
morning when she had gone to get it, before anything had happened and the lure of life had
been so exquisite. Now that it had come near--if this indeed were life that she was laboring
in--it was steep and crabbed, like the brown hills in summer, far off, like velvet, to climb,
plowed ground and stubble.

And yet she didn't wish herself back, but only forward. Now she had no leisure to imagine,
to pretend, to enjoy, only the breathless sense that she must get forward. The chattering clock
on her mantel warned her of the passing time and set her hurrying into her walking-gown, her
hat, her gloves, as if the object of her errand would only wait for her a moment longer. When,
for the second time, she opened the house door, she didn't hesitate. She descended into the
white fog that covered all the city.

Above her the stone façade of her house loomed huge and pinkish in the mist. Her spirits rose
with the feeling that she was going adventuring again, leaving that house where for the last
two days she had awaited events with such vivid apprehensions. She hurried fast down the damp,
glistening pavement, seeing long, dim gray faces of houses glimmer by, seeing figures come
toward her through the fog, grow vivid, pass, and hearing at intervals the hoarse, lonely voice
of the fog-horn at "The Heads" reaching her over many intervening hills. She did not feel sure
what she should do at the end of her journey or what awaited her there. She knew herself a
most unpractised hunter, she, who, all her life, had been the most artful of quarries. A quarry
she was still, but in this chase she had to come out and stalk the facts in order to see which
way to run; if, she told herself in her exhilaration, she decided to run at all.

She turned in at the low gate of imitation grill in front of an enormous wooden mansion, with
towers and cupolas painted all a chill slate gray, with fuchsias, purple and red, clambering
up the front. She rang, and was admitted into a hall, ornate and very high, with a wide staircase
sweeping down into the middle of it.

The maid looked dubiously at Flora and thought Miss Buller was not at home, but would see.
Flora turned into the room on her left and sat down among the Louis Quinze sofas and potted
palms with a feeling that Miss Buller was at home, and, for one reason or another, preferred
not to be seen. She waited apprehensively, wondering whether Ella was not seeing the world-in-general,
or had really specified against herself. Could it be that Ella was one of those women whom
Harry had alluded to as running after Kerr? In the short twenty-four hours every individual
help she had counted upon had seemed to draw away from her--Kerr, whose understanding she had
been so sure of; Clara, whose propriety had never failed; Harry, whose comfortable good nature
she had so taken for granted! It seemed as if the sapphire, whose presence she was never unconscious
of, for all she wore it out of sight, had a power like the evil eye over these people. But
if it could turn such as Ella against her, why, the Brussels carpet beneath her might well
open and let her down to deeper abysses than Judge Buller's wine-cellar.

She started nervously at the step of the maid returning. The message brought was unexpected.
"Miss Buller says will you please walk up-stairs?"

Flora was amazed. That invitation would have been odd enough at any time, for she and Ella
were hardly on such intimate footing. But now she was ushered up the majestic stair, and from
the majestic upper hall abruptly into a wild little cluttered sewing-room, and thence into
a wilder but more spacious bedroom, large curtains at the windows, large roses on the carpet,
and over all objects in the room a clutter of miscellaneous articles, as if Ella's band-boxes,
bureaus, and work-baskets habitually refused to contain themselves.

From the midst of this Ella confronted her, still in her "wrapper" and with the large puff
of her hair a little awry. Under it her face was curiously pink, a color deepening to the tip
of her nose and puffing out under her eyes.

"Well, Flora," she greeted her guest. "You were just the person I wanted to see. Sit down.
No, not there--that's my bird of paradise feather! Oh, no, not there--that's the breakfast.
Well, I guess you'll have to sit on the bed."

Flora swept aside the clothes that streamed across it and throned herself on the edge of the
high, white plateau of Ella's four-poster. Ella, for all her eager greeting, looked upon her
friend doubtfully, and Flora recognized in herself a similar hesitation, as if each were trying
to make out, without asking, what thoughts the other harbored.

"I was afraid I shouldn't see you at all," Flora began at last.

"Well, you wouldn't if it hadn't happened to be you," said Ella paradoxically. "Look at me;
did you ever see such a sight?"

"You don't look very well," Flora cautiously admitted. "Why, Ella, you've been crying!"

"Yes, I've been crying," said Ella, mopping her nose, which still showed a tendency to distil
a tear at its tip. "And it's perfectly awful to me to think you've been living so long in the
same house with her."

Flora murmured breathlessly, "What in the world do you mean?"

"If you don't know, I certainly ought to tell you. I mean Clara," said Ella distinctly.

Flora, sitting up on the edge of the high bed with the tips of her little shoes hardly touching
the floor, looked at Ella fascinated, her lips a little apart. Ella had so exactly pronounced
her own secret thought of Clara. She was breathless to know what had been Clara's performance
at the Bullers'.

"Of course I've always known she was like that," said Ella, leaning back in her chair with
an air of resignation. "She's always getting something. It's awful. It was the same even when
we were at boarding-school. I suppose she never did have enough money, though her people were
awfully nice; but she worked us all for invitations and rides in our carriages, and I remember
she got lots through Lillie Lewis' elder brother, and he thought she was going to marry him,
but she didn't. She married Lulu Britton's father; and I guess she worked him until he went
under and they found there really was no money. So she's been living on people ever since."
Ella rocked gloomily.

"But she does it so nicely," Flora suggested. She still had the feeling that it was not decent
to own up to these most secret facts of people's failings.

"Oh, yes, she's a perfect wonder," Ella admitted grudgingly; "look at what she's done for you!"
Ella's gesticulation was eloquent of how much that had been. "But don't you imagine she cares
about you any more than she cares about me!" Ella began to cry again. "You were an awfully
good thing for her, Flora, and now that you're going to be married she's got to have something
else. But I do think she might have taken somebody besides papa."

Flora gasped. "'Taken!' Ella, what do you mean?"

"I mean married," said Ella.

"'Married!'" For the time Flora had become a helpless echo.

"Oh, not yet," Ella defiantly nodded. "Not while there's anything left of me."

Flora stammered. "Oh, Ella, no. Oh, Ella, are you sure?" She felt a hysterical impulse to giggle.

"Sure?" Miss Buller cried. "I should think so! Why, she's simply making a dead set for him."

This dénouement, this climax to her somber expectations, struck Flora as something wildly and
indecently ridiculous. "Why, but it's impossible!" she protested, and began helplessly to laugh.

"Well, I'd like to know why?" Ella snapped. "I'm sure papa is twice as rich as old Britton
was, and twice as easy." She went off into sobs behind her handkerchief.

"Oh, don't, Ella, don't cry!" Flora begged, petting the large expanse of heaving shoulders.
"I didn't mean anything. I was just silly. Of course it may be that she wants to marry him.
But she never has before--at least, I mean, I don't believe she wants to now. What makes you
think she does? What has she done?"

"Well," Ella burst out, "why is she coming here all the time, when she never used to, and petting
papa? Why does she bother to be so agreeable to me when she never was before? Why does she
make me ask her to dinner, when I don't want to?"

Each question knocked on Flora's brain to the accompaniment of Ella's furious rocking. She
could not answer them, and Ella's explanation, absurd as it seemed, coming on top of her high
expectations, wasn't impossible. It was like Clara to have more than one iron in the fire;
but when Flora remembered the passionate intentness with which Clara had demolished the order
of her room, she couldn't believe that Clara would pause in the midst of such pursuit to pounce
on Judge Buller.

"Oh, Ella," Flora sympathetically urged, "I don't believe there's really any danger. And surely,
even if she meant it, Judge Buller wouldn't be--"

"Oh, yes, he would," Ella cut her short. "Why, when she came yesterday he was just going out,
and she went for him and made him stop to tea. Think of it--papa stopping to tea! And he was
as pleased as Punch to have her make up to him. He hasn't the least idea of what she's after.
Papa isn't used to ladies. He's always just lived with me."

This astonishing statement looking at Flora through Ella's unsuspecting eyes had nevertheless
a pathos of its own. It conjured up a long vista of harmonious existence which the two, the
daughter and the father, had made out of their mutual simplicity, and their mutual gusto for
the material comforts which came comfortably.

"But I'll tell you one thing," Ella ended, still rocking vigorously; "if she comes here to-night
to dinner when she knows I don't want her I shall tell her what I think of her, before she
leaves this house! See if I don't."

"Don't do that, Ella," Flora entreated, "that would be awful." She was certain that such an
interview would only end in Clara's making Ella more ridiculous than she was already. "Let
me speak to her. I don't mind at all," she declared bravely, and in a manner truly, though
she was fully aware that speaking to Clara would be anything but a treat.

"Oh, would you?" said Ella eagerly. "I really would be awfully obliged. I hated to ask you,
Flora, but I thought perhaps you might be able to--to, well, perhaps be able to do something,"
she ended vaguely. "Do you think you could?"

"I'll speak to Clara to-night," said Flora heroically, "or to-morrow," she added; "I'm afraid
I won't see her to-night."

"Well, I'll let you know if it makes any difference," said Ella hopefully.

Flora knew that nothing either of them could say would make any difference to Clara, or turn
her from the thing she was pursuing; but by speaking she might at least find out if Judge Buller
himself were really her object. And Ella's wail of assured calamity, "Papa has always been
so happy with me," touched her with its absurd pathos.

She kissed Ella's misty cheek at parting. It wasn't fair, she thought remorsefully, for people
like the Bullers to be at large on the same planet with people like Clara--and herself--and--and
like--Her thoughts ran off into the fog. At least, thank heaven, it was the judge Clara was
trailing and not Kerr.

The bells and whistles of one o'clock were making clangor as she ran up the steps of her house
again. In the hall Shima presented her with a card. She looked at it with a quickening pulse.
"Is he waiting?"

"No, madam. Mr. Kerr has gone. He waited half an hour."

Down went her spirits again. Yet surely after their last interview she ought not to be eager
to meet him again. "In the morning," she thought, "and waited half an hour. How he must have
wanted to see me!" She didn't know whether she liked that or not. "When did he come?"

"At eleven o'clock."

At this she was frightened; he had missed Harry by less than half an hour.

"He waited all that time alone?"

"No. Mr. Cressy came."

Flora felt a cold thrill in her nerves. Then Harry had come back! What had he come for?

"He also would wait," the Japanese explained.

Flora gasped. "They waited together!"

The Japanese shook his head. "They went away together."

She didn't believe her ears. "Mr. Kerr went away with Mr. Cressy?"

The Japanese seemed to revolve the problem of mastery. "No, Mr. Cressy accompanied Mr. Kerr."
He had made a delicate oriental distinction. It put the whole thing before her in a moment.
Harry had been the resistant, and the other with his brilliant initiative attacking, always
attacking when he should have been hiding, had carried him off. "What had he done, and how
had he managed, when Harry must have had such pressing reasons for wanting to stay?" Ah, she
knew only too well Kerr's exquisite knowledge of managing; but why must he make such a reckless
exposure of himself? Did he suppose Harry was to be managed? Had he no idea where Harry stood
in this affair? In pity's name, didn't he know that Harry had seen him before--had seen him
under circumstances of which Harry wouldn't talk? They were circumstances of which she knew
nothing, and yet from that very fact there was left a horrible impression in her mind that
they had been of a questionable character.

XV

A LADY IN DISTRESS

She had returned, ready for pitched battle with Clara, and on the threshold there had met her
the very turn in the affair that she had dreaded all along--the setting of Kerr and Harry upon
each other.

These were two whom she had kept apart even in her mind--the man to whom she was pledged, with
whom she had supposed herself in love, and the man for whom she was flying in the face of all
her traditions. She had not scrutinized the reason of her extraordinary behavior; not since
that dreadful day when the vanishing mystery had taken positive form in him had she dared to
think how she felt about Kerr. She had only acted, acted; only asked herself what to do next,
and never why; only taken his cause upon herself and made it her own, as if that was her natural
right. She could hardly believe that it was she who had let herself go to this extent. All
her life she had been docile to public opinion, buxom to conventions, respectful of those legal
and moral rules laid down by some rigid material spirit lurking in mankind. But now when the
moment had come, when the responsibility had descended upon her, she found that these things
had in no way persuaded her. They were not vital enough for her proposition. They had no meaning
now--no more than proper parlor furniture for a castaway on a desert island.

Then this was herself, a creature too much concerned with the primal harmonies of life to be
impressed by the modulations her decade set upon them. This was that self which she had obscurely
cherished as no more real than a fairy; but at Kerr's acclamation it had proclaimed itself
more real than flesh and blood, and Kerr himself the most real thing in all her life.

Then what was Harry? The bland implacable pronouncement of Shima had summoned him up to stand
beside Kerr more clearly than her own eyes could have shown him. Surely she was giving to Kerr
what belonged to Harry, or else she had already given to Harry what ought to have been Kerr's.
That was her last conclusion. It was horrible, it was hopeless, but it was not untrue. It had
crept upon her so softly that it had taken her unawares. She was appalled at the unreason of
passion. Unsought by him, unclaimed, in every common sense a stranger to him--how could she
belong to him? And yet of that she was sure by the way he had unveiled her the first night,
by the way he had quickened her dreaming into life. As many times as she had fancied what love
was like she had never dreamed it could be like this. It was mockery that she could be concerned
for one who only wanted of her--plunder. Yet it was so. She was as tremblingly concerned for
his fate as if she owned his whole devotion; and his fate at this moment, she was convinced,
was in Harry's hands.

Kerr, with his brilliant initiative, might carry him off, but Kerr was still the quarry. For
had not Harry, from the very beginning, known something about him? Hadn't he at first denied
having seen him before, and then admitted it? Hadn't he dropped hints and innuendoes without
ever an explanation? She remembered the singular fact of the Embassy ball, twice mentioned,
each time with that singular name of Farrell Wand. And to know--if that was what Harry knew--that
a man of such fame was in a community where a ring of such fame had disappeared--what further
proof was wanted?

Then why didn't Harry speak? And what was going on on his side of the affair? Harry's side
would have been her side a few days before. Now, unaccountably, it was not. Nor was Kerr's
side hers either. She was standing between the two--standing hesitating between her love of
one and her loyalty to the other and what he represented. The power might be hers to tip the
scales Harry held, either to Kerr's undoing, or to his protection. At least she thought she
might protect him, if she could discover Harry's secret. Her special, authorized relation to
him--her right to see him often, question him freely--even cajole--should make that easy. But
she shrank from what seemed like betrayal, even though she did not betray him to Kerr by name.

Then, on the other hand, she doubted how much she could do with Harry. She wasn't sure how
far she was prepared to try him after that scene of theirs. She had no desire to pique him
further by seeing too much of Kerr. On her own account she wanted for the present to avoid
Kerr. He roused a feeling in her that she feared--a feeling intoxicating to the senses, dazzling
to the mind, unknitting to the will. How could she tell, if they were left alone together for
a long enough space of time, that she might not take the jewel from her neck, at his request,
and hand it to him--and damn them both? If only she could escape seeing him altogether until
she could find out what Harry was doing, and what she must do!

Meanwhile, there was her promise to Ella. She recalled it with difficulty. It seemed a vague
thing in the light of her latest discovery, though she could never meet Clara in disagreement
without a qualm. But she made the plunge that evening, before Clara left for the Bullers',
while she was at her dressing-table in the half-disarray which brings out all the softness
and the disarming physical charm of women. From her low chair Flora spoke laughingly of Ella's
perturbation. Clara paused, with the powder puff in her hand, while she listened to Flora's
explanation of how Ella feared that some one might, after all these years, be going to marry
Judge Buller. Who this might be she did not even hint at. She left it ever so sketchy. But
the little stare with which Clara met it, the amusement, the surprise, and then the shortest
possible little laugh, were guarantee that Clara had seen it all. She had filled out Flora's
sketch to the full outline, and pronounced it, as Flora had, an absurdity. But though Clara
had laughed she had gone away with her delicate brows a little drawn together, as if she'd
really found more than a laugh, something worth considering, in Ella's state of mind.

Flora was left with the uneasy feeling that perhaps she had unwittingly delivered Ella into
Clara's hands; that Ella, too, was in danger of becoming part of Clara's schemes. Danger seemed
to be spreading like contagion. It was borne in upon her that from this time forward dangers
would multiply. That nothing was going to be easier, but everything infinitely harder, to the
end; and now was the time to act if ever she hoped to make way through the tangle.

She heard the wheels of Clara's departing conveyance. Now was her chance for an interview with
Harry. She spent twenty minutes putting together three sentences that would not arouse his
suspicions. She made two copies, and sent them by separate messengers, one to his rooms, one
to the club, with orders they be brought back if he was not there to receive them. Then--the
miserable business of waiting in the large house full of echoes and the round ghostly globes
of electric lights, with that thing around her neck for which--did they but know of it--half
the town would break in her windows and doors.

The wind traveled the streets without, and shook the window-casings. She cowered over the library
fire, listening. The leaping flames set her shadow dancing like a goblin. A bell rang, and
the shadow and the flame gave a higher leap as if in welcome of what had arrived. She went
to the library door. In the glooms and lights outside Shima was standing, and two messengers.
It was odd that both should arrive at once. She stepped back and stood waiting with a quicker
pulse. Shima entered with two letters upon his tray. She had a moment's anxiety lest both her
notes had been brought back to her, but no--the envelope which lay on top showed Harry's writing.
She tore it open hastily. Harry wrote that he would be delighted, and might he bring a friend
with him; a bully fellow whom he wanted her to meet? He added she might send over for some
girl and they could have a jolly little party.

Flora looked at this communication blankly. Was Harry, who had always jumped at the chance
of a tête-à-tête, dodging her? In her astonishment she let the other envelope fall. She stooped,
and then for a moment remained thus, bent above it. The superscription was not hers. The note
was not addressed to Harry, but to her, and in a handwriting she had never seen before!

Again the peal of the electric bell. Shima appeared with a third envelope. This time it was
her own note returned to her. With the feeling she was bewitched she took up the mysterious
letter from the floor and opened it. She read the strange handwriting:

     May I see you, anywhere, at any time, to-night?
                                           ROBERT KERR.

It was as if Kerr himself had entered the room, masked and muffled beyond recognition, and
then, face to face with her, let fall his disguise. She gazed at the words, at the signature,
thrilled and frightened. She looked at Harry's note, hesitated; caught a glimpse between the
half-open doors of the two messengers waiting stolidly in the hall. Waiting for answers! Answers
to such communications! She made a dash for the table where were pens and ink and on one sheet
scrawled:

"Certainly. Bring him," appending her initials; on the other the word "Impossible," and her
full name. Then she hurried the letters into Shima's hands, lest her courage should fail her--lest
she should regret her choice.

"Anywhere, at any time, to-night," she repeated softly. Why, the man must be mad! Yet she permitted
herself a moment of imagining what might have been if her answers had been reversed.

But no, she dared not meet Kerr's impetuous attacks yet. First she must get at Harry. And how
was that to be managed if he insisted on surrounding himself with "a jolly little party?"

She found a moment that evening in which to ask him to walk out to the Presidio with her the
next morning. But he was going to Burlingame on the early train. He was woefully sorry. It
was ages since he had had a moment with her alone, but at least he would see her that evening.
She had not forgotten? They were going to that dinner--and then the reception afterward? Her
suspicion that he was deliberately dodging wavered before his boyish, cheerful, unconscious
face. And yet, following on the heels of his tendency to question and coerce her, this reticence
was amazing. The next day would be lost with Harry beyond reach--twelve hours while Kerr was
at the mercy of chance, and she was at the mercy of Kerr.

His tactics did not leave her breathing space. She felt as the lilies wavering just beyond
his reach. She remembered his ingenuity. She thought of the blows of his cane. Lucky for her
she was not rooted like the lilies! The only safety was in keeping beyond his reach.

Yet when his card was brought up to her the next morning she looked at the printed name as
wistfully as if it had been his face. It cost an effort to send down the cold fiction that
she was not at home, and she could not deny herself the consolation of leaning on the baluster
of the second landing, and listening for his step in the hall below. But there was no movement.
Could it be possible he was waiting for her to come in? Hush! That was the drawing-room door.
But instead of Kerr, Shima emerged. He was heading for the stair with his little silver tray
and upon it--a note. Oh, impudence! How dared he give her the lie, by the hand of her own butler!
She stood her ground, and Shima delivered the missive as if it were most usual to find one's
mistress beflounced in peignoir and petticoats, hanging breathless over the baluster.

"Take that back," she said coldly, "and tell him that I am out; and, Shima,"--she addressed
the man's intelligence--"make him understand it."

She watched the note departing. How she longed to call Shima back and open it! There was a
pause--then Kerr emerged from the drawing-room. As he crossed the hall he glanced up at the
stair and as much as was visible of the landing. He hadn't taken Shima's word for it, after all!

The vestibule door closed noiselessly after him, the outer door shut with a heavy sound. Yet
before that sound had ceased to vibrate, she heard it shut again. Was he coming back? There
was a presence in the vestibule very vaguely seen through the glass and lace of the inner door.
Her heart beat with apprehension. The door opened upon Clara.

Flora precipitately retreated. She was more disturbed than relieved by the unexpected appearance.
For Clara must have seen Kerr leave the house. Three times now within three days he had been
found with her or waiting for her. She wondered if Clara would ask her awkward questions. But
Clara, when she entered Flora's dressing-room a few moments later with the shopping-list, instead
of a question, offered a statement.

"I don't like that man," she announced.

"Who?"

"That Kerr. I met him just now on the steps. Don't you feel there is something wrong about him?"

"Oh, I don't know," said Flora vaguely.

Clara gave her a bright glance.

"But you weren't at home to him."

"I'm not at home to any one this morning," Flora answered evasively, feeling the probe of Clara's
eyes. "I'm feeling ill. I'm not going out this evening either. I think I'll ring up Burlingame
and tell Harry." It was in her mind that she might manage to make him stay with her while Clara
went on to the reception.

"Burlingame! Harry!" Clara echoed in surprise. "Why, he's in town. I saw him just now as I
was coming up."

"Are you sure?"

"Yes. He was walking up Clay from Kearney. I was in the car."

"Why that--that is--" Flora stammered in her surprise. "Then something must have kept him,"
she altered her sentence quickly. But though this seemed the probable explanation she did not
believe it. Harry walking toward Chinatown, when he had told her distinctly he would be in
Burlingame! She thought of the goldsmith shop and there returned to her the memory of how Harry
and the blue-eyed Chinaman had looked when she had turned from the window and seen them standing
together in the back of the shop.

"You do look ill," Clara remarked. "Why don't you stay in bed, and not try to see any one?"

Flora murmured that that was her intention, but she was far from speaking the truth. She only
waited to make sure of Clara's being in her own rooms to get out of the house and telephone
to Harry.

It was not far to the nearest booth, a block or two down the cross-street. She rang, first,
the office. The word came back promptly in his partner's voice. He had gone to Burlingame by
the early train. It was the same at the club. He must be in town, then, on secret business.
She left the apothecary's and, with serious face, walked on down the street, away from her
house. She was thinking that now she knew Harry had lied to her. And it was the second time.
But perhaps it was just because he thought her innocent that he was keeping her so in the dark.
Suppose she should tell him flatly what she had found out about him to-day?

She walked rapidly, in her excitement, turning the troubling question over in her mind. She
did not realize how far she had gone until some girl she knew, passing and nodding to her,
called her out of her reverie. She was almost in front of the University Club. A few blocks
more and she would be in the shopping district. She hesitated, then decided that it would be
better to walk a little further and take a cross-town car.

A group of men was leaving the club. Two lingered on the steps, the other coming quickly out.
At sight of him, she averted her face, and, hurrying, turned the corner and walked down a block.
Her heart was beating rapidly. What if he had seen her! She looked about--there was no cab
in sight--the best thing to do was to slip into one of the crowded shops, full of women, and
wait until the danger had passed. Once inside the door of the nearest, she felt herself, with
relief, only one of a horde of pricers, lookers and buyers. She felt as if she had lost her
identity. She went to the nearest counter and asked for veils. Partly concealed behind the
bulk of the woman next her, she kept her eye on the door. She saw Kerr come in. How absurd
to think that she could escape him! She turned her back and waited a moment or two, still hoping
he might pass her by. Then, she heard his voice behind her:

"Well, this is luck!"

She was conscious of giving him a limp hand. He sat down on the vacant stool next her, laughing.

"You are a most remarkably fast walker," he observed.

"I had to buy a veil," Flora murmured.

"Has it taken you all the morning?"

She could see she had not fooled him.

"I had a great many other things to do." She was resolved not to admit anything.

"No doubt, but I wanted to see you very much last night, and again this morning. I may see
you this evening, perhaps?" He was grave now. She saw that he awaited her answer in anxiety.

"But--" she hesitated just a moment too long before she added, "I'm going out this evening."

She started nervously to rise.

"Wait," he said in a voice that was audible to the shop-girl, "your package has not come."

She looked at him helplessly, so attractive and so inimical to her. He swung around, back to
the counter, and lowered his voice. "Did you know I called upon you yesterday morning, also?"
he asked.

She nodded.

"Mr. Cressy and I waited for you together. Did he mention it to you?"

"No." Her lips let the word out slowly.

"That's a reticent friend of yours!" The exclamation, and the truth of it, put her on her guard.

"I can't discuss him with you," she said coldly.

"Yet no doubt you have discussed me with him?"

"Never!"

"You haven't told him anything?" The incredulity, the amazement of his face put before her,
for the first time, how extraordinary her conduct must seem. What could he think of her? What
construction would he put upon it? She blushed, neck to forehead, and her voice was scarcely
audible as she answered "No."

But at that small word his whole mood warmed to her. "Why, then," he began eagerly, "if Cressy
doesn't know--"

"Oh, but he--" Flora stopped in terror of herself. "I can't talk of him, I must not. Don't
ask me!" she implored, "and please, please don't come to my house again!"

He gave his head a puzzled, impatient shake. "Then where am I to see you?"

"In a few days--perhaps to-morrow--I will let you know." She rose. She had her package now.
She was getting back her courage. There was no further way of keeping her.

But he followed her closely through the crowd to the door. "Yes," he said quickly under his
breath, "in a few days, perhaps to-morrow, as soon as you get rid of it, you won't mind meeting
me! What are you afraid of? Surely not me?"

She was, but hotly denied it.

"I am not afraid of you. I am afraid of them!"

"Of them!" He peered at her. "What are you talking about now?"

Ah, she had said too much! She bit her lip. They had reached the corner, and the gliding cable
car was approaching. She turned to him with a last appeal.

"Don't ask me anything! Don't come with me! Don't follow me!"

Not until she was safely inside the car did she dare look back at him. He was still on the
corner, and he raised his hat and smiled so reassuringly that she was half-way home before
she realized that, in spite of all she had urged upon him, he had not committed himself to
any promise. And yet, she thought in dismay, he had almost made her give away Harry's confidence.
She was seeing more and more clearly that this was the danger of meeting him. He always got
something out of her and never, by chance, gave her anything in return. If he should seek her
to-night she dared not be at home! Any place would be safer than her own house. It would be
better to fulfil her engagement and go to the reception with Clara and Harry. That was a house
Kerr did not know.

It was awkward to have to announce this sudden change of plan after her pretenses of the morning,
but of late she had lived too constantly with danger for Clara's lifted eyebrows to daunt her.
The mere trivial act of being dressed each day was fraught with danger. To get the sapphire
off her person before Marrika should appear; to put it back somehow after Marrika had done;
to shift it from one place to another as she wore gowns cut high or low--and every moment in
fear lest she be discovered in the act! This was her daily manoeuver. To-night she clasped
the chain around her waist beneath her petticoats. But Marrika's sensitive fingers, smoothing
over, for the last time, the close-fitting front of the gown, felt the sapphire, fumbled with
it, and tried to adjust it like a button.

"That is all right," Flora said quickly. "Nothing shows." Was it always to make itself known,
she thought uneasily, no matter how it was hid?

She was ready early, in the hope that Harry might come, as he had been wont to do, a little
before the appointed hour. But he turned up without a moment to spare. Clara was down-stairs
in her cloak when he appeared. There was no chance for a word at dinner. But if she could not
manage it later in the wider field of the reception, why, then she deserved to fail in everything.

But she found, upon their arrival that even this was going to be hard to bring about. For she
was immediately pounced upon--first, by Ella Buller.

"Why, Flora," at the top of her voice, "where have you been all these days!" Then in a hot
whisper, "Did you speak to her? It hasn't done one bit of good."

"I think you are mistaken," Flora murmured. "But be careful, and let me know--" She had only
time for that broken sentence before she was surrounded; and other voices took up the chorus.

She was getting to be a perfect hermit.

She was forgetting all her old friends.

And a less kindly voice in the background added, "Yes, for new ones."

She realized with some alarm that though she had forgotten her public, it had kept its eye
on her. She answered, laughing, that she was keeping Lent early, and allowed herself to be
drifted about through the crowd by more or less entertaining people, now and then getting glimpses
of Harry, tracking him by his burnished brown head, waiting her opportunity to get him cornered.
At last she saw him making for the smoking-room. Connecting this with the drawing-room where
she stood was a small red lounging-room, walls, floor and furniture all covered with crimson
velvet. It had a third door which communicated indirectly with the reception-rooms, by means
of a little hall. She was near that hall, and it would be the work of a moment to slip by way
of it into the red room and stop Harry on his way through. She had not played at such a game
since, as a child, she had jumped out on people from dark closets, and Harry was as much astonished
as she could remember they had been. He was cutting the end of a cigar and he all but dropped it.

"What in the world are you doing here alone?" He spoke peevishly. "I don't see how a crowd
of men can leave such a bundle of fascination at large!"

She made him a low courtesy and said she was preventing him from doing so.

"It's very good of you, and you are very pretty, Flora," he admitted with a grudging smile,
"but I've got to see a man in there." His eyes went to the door of the smoking-room whence
was audible a discussion of voices, and among them Judge Buller's basso. She was between Harry
and the door. Laughingly, he made as if to put her aside, when the door through which she had
entered opened again sharply; and Kerr came in.

"Forgive me. I followed you," he began. Then he saw Harry. "I--ha--ha--I've been hunting for
you, Cressy, all the evening!"

Harry accepted the statement with a cynical smile. It was too evidently not for him Kerr had
been hunting, and after the first stammer of embarrassment, the Englishman made no attempt
to conceal his real intentions. His words merely served him as an excuse not to retreat.

"This is a good place to sit," he said, pushing forward a chair for Flora. She sank into it,
wondering weakly what daring or what danger had brought him into a house where he was not known,
to seek her. He sat down in the compartment of a double settee near her. Harry still stood
with a dubious smile on his face. The look the two men exchanged appeared to her a prolongment
of their earnest interrogation in the picture gallery; but this time it struck her that both
carried it off less well. Harry, especially, bore it badly.

"Did you say you were looking for me?" he remarked. "Well, Buller's been looking for you. He
wants to know about some Englishman that they're trying to put up at the club."

"How's that? Oh, yes! I remember." Kerr shrugged. "Never heard of him at home, and can't vouch
for every fellow who comes along, just because he is English."

"Quite so!" said Harry, with a straight look at Kerr that made Flora uncomfortable.

"But Judge Buller has already vouched for that man," she said quickly, "so he must be all right."

Kerr inclined his head to her with a smile.

"Buller is easily taken in," said Harry calmly. Under the direct, the insolent meaning of his
look Flora felt her face grow hot--her hands cold. Harry could sit there taunting this man,
hitting him over another man's back, and Kerr could not resent it. He could only sit--his head
a little canted forward--looking at Harry with the traces of a dry smile upon his lips.

She thought the next moment everything would be declared. She sprang up, and, with an impulse
for rescue, went to the door of the smoking-room. "Judge Buller," she called.

There was a sudden cessation of talk; a movement of forms dimly seen in the thick blue element;
and then through wreaths of smoke, the judge's face dawned upon her like a sun through fog.

"Well, well, Miss Flora," he wanted to know, "to what bad action of mine do I owe this good
fortune?"

She retreated, beckoning him to the middle of the room. "You owe it to the bad action of another,"
she said gaily. "Your friends are being slandered."

Harry made a movement as if he would have stopped her, and the expression of his face, in its
alarm, was comic. But she paid no heed. She laid her hand on Harry's arm. "Mr. Kerr is just
about to accuse us of being impostors," she announced. She had robbed the situation of its
peril by gaily turning it exactly inside out.

The judge blinked, puzzled at this extraordinary statement. Harry was disconcerted; but Kerr
showed an astonishment that amazed her--a concern that she could not understand. He stared
at her. Then he laughed rather shakily as he turned to her with a mock gallant bow.

"All women impose upon us, madam. And as for Mr. Cressy"--he fixed Harry with a look--"I could
not accuse him of being an impostor since we have met in the sacred limits of of St. James'."

The two glances that crossed before Flora's watchful eyes were keen as thrust and parry of
rapiers. Harry bowed stiffly.

"I believe, for a fact, we did not meet, but I think I saw you there once--at some Embassy ball."

The words rang, to Flora's ears, as if they had been shouted from the housetops. In the speaking
pause that followed there was audible an unknown hortatory voice from the smoking-room.

"I tell you it's a damn-fool way to manage it! What's the good of twenty thousand dollars'
reward?" Flora clutched nervously at the back of her chair. She seemed to see the danger of
discovery piling up above Kerr like a mountain.

The judge chuckled. "You see what you saved me from. They've been at it hammer and tongs all
the evening. Every man in town has his idea on that subject."

"For instance, what is that one?" Kerr's casual voice was in contrast to his guarded eyes.

The judge looked pleased. "That one? Why, that's my own--was, at least, half an hour ago. You
see, about that twenty-thousand-dollar proposition--" They moved nearer him. They stood, the
four, around the red velvet-covered table, like people waiting to be served. "The trouble is
right here," said the judge, emphasizing with blunt forefinger. "The crook has a pal. That's
probable, isn't it?"

Harry nodded. Flora felt Kerr's eyes upon her, but she could not look at him.

"And we see the thing is at a deadlock, don't we? Well, now," the judge went on triumphantly,
"we know if any one person had the whole ring it would be turned in by this time. That is the
weak spot in the reward policy. They didn't reckon on the thing's being split."

"Split? No, really, do you think that possible?" Kerr inquired, and Flora caught a glimmer
of irony in his voice.

"Well, can you see one of those chaps trusting the other with more than half of it?" The judge
was scornful. "And a fellow needs a whole ring if he is after a reward." He rolled his head
waggishly. "Oh, I could have been a crook myself!" he chuckled, but his was the only smiling
face in the party.

For Kerr's was pale, schooled to a rigid self-control.

And Harry's was crimson and swollen, as if with a sudden rush of blood. His twitching hands,
his sullen eyes, responded to Judge Buller's last word as if it had been an accusation.

"It makes me damned sick, the way you fellows talk--as if it was the easiest thing in the world
to--" He broke off. It was such a tone, loose, harsh and uncontrolled, as made Flora shrink.

As if he sensed that movement in her, he turned upon her furiously.

"Well, are we going to stand here all night?" He took her by the arm.

She felt as if he had struck her. Buller was staring at him, but Kerr had opened the door through
which she had entered, and now, turning his back upon Harry, silently motioned her out.

She had a moment's fear that Harry's grasp, even then, wouldn't let go. Indeed, for a moment
he stood clutching her, as if, now that his rage had spent itself, she was the one thing he
could hold to. Then she felt his fingers loosen. He stood there alone, looking, with his great
bulk, and his great strength, and his abashed bewilderment, rather pathetic.

But that aspect reached her dimly, for the fear of him was uppermost. Her arm still burned
where he had grasped it. She moved away from him toward the door Kerr had opened for her. She
passed from the light of the crimson room into the dark of the passage. Some one followed her
and closed the door. Some one caught step with her. It was Kerr. He bent his dark head to speak
low.

"I don't know why you did it, you quixotic child, but you must not expose yourself in this
way, for any reason whatsoever."

The light of the crowded rooms burst upon them again.

"Oh," she turned to him beseechingly, "can't you get me away?"

"Surely." His manner was as if nothing had happened. His smile was reassuring. "I'll call your
carriage, and find Mrs. Britton."

When Flora came down from the dressing-room she found Clara already in the carriage, and Kerr
mounting guard in the hall. As he handed her in, Clara leaned forward.

"Where is Mr. Cressy?" she inquired.

"He sent his apologies," Kerr explained. "He is not able to get away just now."

Clara could not control a look of astonishment. As the carriage began to move and Kerr's face
disappeared from the square of the window, she turned to Flora.

"Have you and Harry quarreled over that man?"

Flora's voice was low. "No. But Harry--Harry--" she stammered, hardly knowing how to put it,
then put it most truly: "Harry is not quite himself to-night."

Flora lay back in the carriage. She was dimly aware of Clara's presence beside her, but for
the moment Clara had ceased to be a factor. The shape that filled all the foreground of her
thought was Harry. He loomed alarming to her imagination--all the more so since, for the moment,
he had seemed to lose his grip. That was another thing she could not quite understand. That
burst of violent irritation following, as it had, Judge Buller's words! If Kerr had been the
speaker it would have been natural enough, since all through this interview Harry's evident
antagonism had seemed strained to the snapping point.

But poor Judge Buller had been harmless enough. He had been merely theorizing. But--wait! She
made so sharp a movement that Clara looked at her. The judge's theory might be close to facts
that Harry was cognizant of.

For herself she had had no way of finding out how the sapphire had got adrift. But hadn't Harry?
Hadn't he followed up that singular scene with the blue-eyed Chinaman by other visits to the
goldsmith's shop? Why, yesterday, when he was supposed to be in Burlingame, Clara had seen
him in Chinatown. The idea burst upon her then. Harry was after the whole ring. He counted
the part she held already his, and for the rest he was groping in Chinatown; he was trying
to reach it through the imperturbable little goldsmith. But he had not reached it yet--and
she could read his irritation at his failure in his violent outburst when Judge Buller so innocently
flung the difficulties in his face. She knew as much now as she could bear. If Harry did not
suspect Kerr, it would be strange. But--Harry waiting to make sure of a reward before he unmasked
a thief! It was an ugly thought!

And would he wait for the rest now--now that the situation was so galling to him? Might not
he just decide to take the sapphire, and with the evidence of that, risk his putting his hand
on the "Idol" when he grasped the thief?

The carriage was stopping. Clara was making ready to get out. She braced herself to face Clara,
in the light, with a casual exterior--but when she had reached her own rooms she sank in a
heap in the chair before her writing-table, and laid her head upon the table between her arms.

In her wretchedness she found herself turning to Kerr. How stoically he had endured it all,
though it must have borne on him most heavily! How kind he had been to her! He had not even
spoken of himself, though he must have known the shadows were closing over his head. Any moment
he might be enshrouded. If it came to a choice between having him taken and giving him the
blue jewel, she wondered which she would do.

In the gray hours of the morning she wrote him. She dared not put the perils into words, but
she implied them. She vaguely threatened; and she implored him to go, avoiding them all, herself
more than any; and, quaking at the possibility that he might, after all, overcome her, she
declared that before he went she would not see him again. She closed with the forbidding statement
that whether he stayed or went, at the end of three days she would make a sure disposal of
the ring. She put all this in reckless black and white and sent it by the hand of Shima. Then
she waited. She waited, in her little isolation, with the sapphire always hung about her neck,
waited with what anticipation of marvelous results--avowals, ideal farewells, or possibly some
incredible transformation of the grim face of the business. And the answer was silence.

XVI

THE HEART OF THE DILEMMA

There is, in the heart of each gale of events, a storm center of quiet. It is the very deadlock
of contending forces, in which the individual has space for breath and apprehension. Into this
lull Flora fell panting from her last experience, more frightened by this false calm than by
the whirlwind that had landed her there. Now she had time to mark the echoes of the storm about
her, and to realize her position. Her absorption had peopled the world for her with four people
at most. Now she had time to look at the larger aspect.

From the middle of her calm she saw many inexplicable appearances. She saw them everywhere,
from the small round of Clara's movement to the larger wheel of the public aspect. Clara was
taking tea with the Bullers, and the papers had ceased to mention the Crew Idol.

It had not even been a nine days' wonder. It had not dwindled. It had simply dropped from head-lines
to nothing; and after the first murmur of astonishment at this strange vanishing, after a little
vain conjecture as to the reason of it, the subject dropped out of the public mouth. The silence
was so sudden it was like a suppression. To Flora it shadowed some forces working so secretly,
so surely, that they had extinguished the light of publicity. They must be going on with concentrated
and terrible activity in cycles, which perhaps had not yet touched her.

So, seeing Major Purdie among the crowd at some one's "afternoon" where she was pouring tea,
she looked up at his cheerful face and high bald dome with a passionate curiosity. He knew
why the press had been extinguished, and what they were doing in the dark. She knew where the
sapphire was--and where the culprit was to be found. And to think that they could tell each
other, if they would, each a tale the other would hardly dare believe. Amazing appearances!
How far away, how foreign from the facts they covered! But Major Purdie had the best of it.
He at least was doing his duty. He was standing stiffly on one side, while she hesitated between,
trying desperately to push Kerr out of sight before she dared uncover the jewel. But he wouldn't
move. In spite of all she had done, he wouldn't.

Across the room that very afternoon she caught the twinkle of his resisting smile. He had had
her letter then for two days, and still he had come here, though he'd been bidden to stay away;
though he had been warned to keep away from all places where she, or these people around her,
might find him; though he had been implored to go, finally, as far away as the round surface
of the world would let him.

By what he had heard and seen in the red room that night, he must know her warning had not
been ridiculous. And there was another threat less apparent on the face of things, but evident
enough to her. It was the change in Clara after she had begun her attack on the Bullers, her
appearance of being busy with something, absorbed with, intent upon, something, which, if she
had not secured it yet, at least she had well in reach. And that thing--suppose it had to do
with the Crew Idol; and suppose Clara should play into Harry's hands!

For Kerr's escape Flora had been holding the ring, fighting off events, and yet all the while
she had not wanted to lose the sight of him. Well, now, when she had made up her mind finally
to resign herself to the dreariness of that, might he not at least have done his part of it
and decently disappeared? So much he might have done for her. Instead of smiling at her across
crowded tea-rooms, and obliquely glancing at her down decorous dinner-tables, and with the
same fatal facility he had displayed in getting at her, now keeping away from her, out of all
possible reach.

He was playing her own trick on her, but her chances for getting at him again were fewer than
his had been with her. She could not besiege him in his abode; and in the places where they
met, large houses crowded with people, the eye of the world was upon her. For how long had
she forgotten it--she who had been all her life so deferential toward it! Even now she remembered
it only because it interfered with what she wanted to do.

For the eye of her small society was very keenly upon Kerr. She realized, all at once, that
he had become a personage; and then, by smiles, by lifted eyebrows, by glances, she gathered
that her name was being linked with his. She was astonished. How could their luncheon together
at the Purdies', their words that night in the opera box, their few minutes' talk in the shop,
have crystallized into this gossip? It vexed her--alarmed her, how it had got about when she
had seen him so seldom, had known him scarcely more than a week. It was simply in the air.
It was in her attitude and in his, but how far it had gone she did not dream, until in the
dense crowd of some one's at-home she caught the words of a young girl. The voice was so sweet
and so prettily modulated that at its first notes Flora turned involuntarily to glimpse the
speaker, a slender creature in a delicate mist of muslin, with an indeterminate chin and the
cheek of a pale peach.

"Just think," Flora heard her saying, "he went to see her three times in two days, but to-day,
did you notice, he wouldn't look at her until she went up and spoke to him. I don't see how
a girl can! Harry Cressy--"

She moved away and the words were lost. Flora looked after her. For the moment she felt only
scorn for the creatures who had clapped that interpretation upon her great responsibility.
These people around her seemed poor indeed, absorbed only in petty considerations, and seeing
everything down the narrow vista of the "correct." Her eyes followed the young girl's course
through the room, easy to trace by her shining blond head, and the unusual deliciousness of
her muslin gown. She stopped beside two women, and with a certain sense of pleasure and embarrassment
Flora recognized one of them--Mrs. Herrick. She caught the lady's eye and bowed. Mrs. Herrick
smiled, with a gracious inclination in which her graceful shoulders had a part.

It gave Flora the sense Mrs. Herrick's presence always brought her, of protection, or security,
and the possibility of friendship finer than she had ever known. She started forward. But Mrs.
Herrick, presenting instantly her profile, drew the young girl's hand through her arm and moved
away.

Flora winced as if she had received a blow. The other people who had heard the same gossip
of her had been, on account of it, all the more amused, and anxious to talk to her. But Mrs.
Herrick, though she bowed and smiled, did not want her too near her daughter; perhaps, herself,
would have preferred not to speak to her.

She felt herself judged--judged from the outside, it is true--but still there was justice in
it. She had been flying in the face of custom, ignoring common good behavior, in short, sticking
to her own convictions in defiance of the world's. And she must pay the penalty--the loss of
the possibility of such a friend.

But it was hard, she thought, to pay the price without getting the thing she had paid for.
It was more like a gamble in which she had staked all on a chance. And never had this chance
appeared more improbable to her than now. For if Kerr valued the ring more than he valued his
safety, what argument was left her? She thought--if only she had been a different sort of woman--the
sort with whom men fall in love--ah, then she might have been able to make one further appeal
to him--one that surely would not have failed.

XVII

THE DEMIGOD

On the third day she opened her eyes to the sun with the thought: Where is he? From the windows
of her room she could see the two pale points and the narrow way of water that led into the
western ocean. Had he sailed out yonder west into the east, into that oblivion which was his
only safety, for ever out of her sight? Or was he still at hand, ignoring warning, defying
fate? "What difference can that make to me now?" she thought, "since whether he is here or
yonder I've come to the end."

She drew out the sapphire and held it in her hand. The cloud of events had cast no film over
its luster, but she looked at it now without pleasure. For all its beauty it wasn't worth what
they were doing for it. Well, to-day they were both of them to see the last of it. To-day she
was going to take it to Mr. Purdie to deliver it into his hands, to tell him how it had fallen
into hers in the goldsmith's shop--all of the story that was possible for her to tell. For
the rest, how she came to fix suspicion on the jewel, he might think her fanciful or morbid.
It didn't matter as long as the weary thing was out of her hands. It couldn't matter!

She had made it out all clear in her mind that this was the right thing to do. It hadn't occurred
to her she had made it out only on the hypothesis of Kerr's certainly going. It had not occurred
to her that she might have to make her great moral move in the dark; or, what was worse, in
the face of his most gallant resistance. In this discouraging light she saw her intention dwindle
to the vanishing point, but the great move was just as good as it had been before--just as
solid, just as advisable. Being so very solid, wouldn't it wait until she had time to show
him that she really meant what she said, supposing she ever had a chance to see him again?
The possibility that at this moment he might actually have gone had almost escaped her. She
recalled it with a disagreeable shock, but, after all, that was the best she could hope, never
to see him again! She ought to be grateful to be sure of that, and yet if she were, oh, never
could she deprive him of so much beauty and light by her keeping of the sapphire as he would
then have taken away from her!

She would come down then, indeed, level with plainest, palest, hardest things--people and facts.
Her romance--she had seen it; she had had it in her hands, and it had somehow eluded her. It
had vanished, evaporated. It had come to her in rather a terrific guise, presented to her on
that night at the club by the first debonair wave of the man's hand; and now he might have
gone out through that white way into the east, taking back her romance as the fairy takes back
his unappreciated gift.

She leaned and looked through the thin veil of her curtains at the splendid day. It was one
of February's freaks. It was hot. The white ghost of noon lay over shore and sea. Beneath her
the city seemed to sleep gray and glistening. The tops of hills that rose above the up-creeping
houses were misted green. Across the bay, along the northern shore, there was a pale green
coast of hills dividing blue and blue. Ships in the bay hung out white canvas drying, and the
sky showed whiter clouds, slow-moving, like sails upon a languid sea. Beneath her, directly
down, through hanging darts of eucalyptus leaves, hemmed with high hedges, the oval of her
garden showed her a pattern like a Persian carpet. Roofs sloped beyond it, and beyond these
the diagram of streets and houses, and empty unbuilt grassy lots.

She looked down upon all, as lone and lonely as a deserted lady in a tower, lifted above these
happy, peaceful things by her strange responsibility. Her thoughts could not stay with them;
her eyes traveled seaward. She parted the curtains and, leaning a little out, looked westward
at the white sea gate.

A whistle, as of some child calling his mate, came sweetly in the silence. It was near, and
the questing, expectant note caught her ear. Again it came, sharper, imperative, directly beneath
her. She looked down; she was speechless. There was a sudden wild current of blood in her veins.
There he stood, the whistler, neither child nor bird, but the man himself--Kerr, looking up
at her from the gay oval of her garden. She hung over the window-sill. She looked directly
down upon him, foreshortened to a face, and even with the distance and the broad glare of noon
between them she recognized his aspect--his gayest, of diabolic glee. There lurked about him
the impish quality of the whistle that had summoned her.

"Come down," he called.

All sorts of wonders and terrors were beating around her. He had transcended her wildest wish;
he had come to her more openly, more daringly, more romantically than she could have dreamed.
All the amazement of why and how he had braved the battery of the windows of her house was
swallowed up in the greater joy of seeing him there, standing in his "grays," with stiff black
hat pushed off his hot forehead, hands behind him, looking up at her from the middle of anemones
and daffodils.

"Come down," he called again, and waved at her with his slim, glittering stick. How far he
had come since their last encounter, to wave at and command her, as if she were verily his
own! She left the window, left the room, ran quickly down the stair. The house was hushed;
no passing but her own, no butler in the hall, no kitchen-maid on the back stair. Only grim
faces of pictures--ancestors not her own--glimmered reproachful upon her as she fled past.
Light echoes called her back along the hall. The furniture, the muffling curtains, her own
reflection flying through the mirrors, held up to her her madness, and by their mute stability
seemed to remind her of the shelter she was leaving--seemed to forbid.

She ran. This was not shelter; it was prison. He was rescue; he was light itself. The only
chance for her was to get near enough to him. Near him no shadow lived. The thing was to get
near enough. She rushed direct from shadow into light. She came out into the sun, into the
garden with its blaze of wintry summer, its whispering life and the free air over it. The man
standing in the middle of it, for all his pot hat and Gothic stick, was none the less its demigod
waiting for her, laughing. He might well laugh that she who had written that unflinching letter
should come thus flying at his call; but there was more than laughter, there was more than
mischief in him. The high tide of his spirits was only the sparkle of his excitement. It was
evident that he was there with something of mighty importance to say.

Was it that her letter had finally touched him? Had he come at last to transcend her idea with
some even greater purpose? She seemed to see the power, the will for that and the kindness--she
could not call it by another word--but though she was beseeching him with all her silent attitude
to tell her instantly what the great thing was, he kept it back a moment, looking at her whimsically,
indulgently, even tenderly.

"I have come for you," he said.

"Oh, for me!" she murmured. Surely he couldn't mean that! He was simply putting her off with that.

"I mean it, I mean it," he assured her. "This doesn't make it any less real, my getting at
you through a garden. Better," he added, "and sweet of you to make the duller way impossible."

She took a step back. It had not been play to her; but he would have it nothing else. He, too,
stepped back and away from her.

"Come," he said, and behind him she saw the lower garden gate that opened on the grassy pitch
of the hill, swinging idle and open. The sight of him about to vanish lured her on, and as
he continued to walk backward she advanced, following.

"Oh, where?" she pleaded.

"With me!" Such a guaranty of good faith he made it!

She tried to summon her reluctance.

"But why?"

"We'll talk about it as we go along." His hand was on the gate. "We can't stop here, you know.
She'll be watching us from the window."

Flora glanced behind her. The windows were all discreetly draped--most likely ambush--but that
he should apprehend Clara's eyes behind them! Ah, then, he did know what he was about! He saw
Clara as she did. She would almost have been ready to trust him on the strength of that alone.
Still she hung back.

"But my things!" she protested. She held up her garden hat. "And my gown!" She looked down
at her frail silk flounces. Was ever any woman seen on the street like this!

"Oh, la, la, la," he cut her short. "We can't stop to dress the part. You'll forget 'em."

She smiled at him suddenly, looked back at the house, put on her hat--the garden hat. The moment
she had dreaded was upon her. In spite of her warning reason, in spite of everything, she was
going with him.

Beyond the looming roofs as they descended the hill she saw white sails sink out of sight.
All the little panorama upon which she had looked down sprang up around her, large and living.
He whistled to the car as he helped her down the last steep pitch, whistled and waved, and
they ran for it. No time for back-looking, no time now for a faint heart. Before she knew they
were fairly crowded into the narrow front seat, and the long street was running up to them
and streaming by.

This was never the car one went out the front door to take. This creaked and crawled low, taking
the corners comfortably, past houses with all their windows blinking recognition. Hadn't it
passed them so for twenty years? Old houses in long gardens, and little houses creeping back
behind their yards, not yet encroached upon by fresher ties of living. Past all these and gliding
down under high, ragged banks, green grass above with wooden stairways straggling up their
naked faces; past these again; past lower levels; past little gray and cluttered houses; past
loaded carts of vegetables; past children playing shrilly, bearing down always on the green
square of the plaza wide, worn and foreign, and the Greek church "domed" with blue and yellow,
bearing down as if it had fairly determined to make its course straight through this stable
center. Then in the very shadow it swerved aside to clatter off in quite another direction
along a wider street with whiter shops, and more glittering windows with gilded letters flashing
foreign names, with more marked and brilliant colors moving in the crowd, with a clearer stamp
on all of Latin living.

Then suddenly for them the sliding panorama ceased. The car had stopped and they had left it,
and were standing upon the corner of a still street that came down from the high hills behind
them and crossed the car-track and climbed again a little way to curve over into the sky. Dingy
houses two blocks above them stood silhouetted against the blue. They were walking upward toward
this horizon, leaving color and motion behind them. With every step the street grew more empty,
lonely and colorless. Many of the windows that glimmered at them, passing, were the blank windows
of empty houses. Were they taking this way, this curious roundabout out-of-the-world way, of
dropping over into the shipping which lay under the hill? For all she knew this might really
be his notion, for since they had left the garden gate, though they had looked together at
the light and color of the pictures moving past their eyes, they had not exchanged a word.

But all at once he stopped at the intersection of two dusty streets, and his eyes veered down
the four perspectives like a voyageur taking his soundings. Elegant as ever and odd enough,
yet he wasn't any odder here at the jumping off place of nowhere than he had appeared in the
box at the theater, or in the picture gallery. She had the clear impression all at once that
he wasn't too odd for anything.

"Here we are!" he said, and indicated with his glittering stick straight before them a little
house. It was low, as if it crouched against the wind, faded and beaten by the sun to the drab
of the rock itself, and made so secret with tight-drawn curtains that it seemed to have shut
itself up against the world for ever. She wavered. She wasn't afraid of herself out here, out-of-doors
under the sky, but she was afraid that those four walls might shut out her new unreasoning
joy, might steal away his new tenderness, and bring her back face to face with the same ugly
fact that had confronted her in her drawing-room.

"Oh, no," she said, and put her hands behind her with a determination that she wasn't going
to move.

