Many large families in this country employ but one servant. Although when life was simpler
it was somewhat easier than it is now to conduct a house with such assistance as may be offered
by a maid-of- all-work, it was necessary even then for the ladies of the house to do some portion
of the lighter domestic work.

It is a very good plan, when there are several daughters in the family, to take turns each
to test her talent as a house-keeper and organizer. If, however, the mistress keep the reins
in her own hands, she can detail one of these young ladies to sweep and dust the parlors, another
to attend to the breakfast dishes, another to make sure that the maid has not neglected any
necessary cleansing of the bedrooms.

A mother with young children must have a thoroughly defined and understood system for the daily
work to render it possible for one servant to perform it all.

The maid must rise very early on Monday morning, and do some part of the laundry work before
breakfast. Many old American servants (when there were such) put the clothes in water to soak,
and sometimes to boil, on Sunday night, that night not having the religious significance in
New England that Saturday night had.

Nowadays, however, Irish girls expect to have a holiday every other Sunday afternoon and evening,
and it would probably be vain to expect this service of them. But at least they should rise
by five o'clock, and do two hours' good work before it is time to prepare the breakfast and
lay the table.

A neat-handed Phyllis will have a clean gown, cap, and apron hanging in the kitchen closet,
and slip them on before she carries in the breakfast, which she has cooked and must serve.
Some girls show great tact in this matter of appearing neat at the right time, but many of
them have to be taught by the mistress to have a clean cap and apron in readiness. The mistress
usually furnishes these items of her maid's attire, and they should be the property of the
mistress, and remain in the family through all changes of servants. They can be bought at almost
any repository conducted in the interest of charity for less than they can be made at home,
and a dozen of them in a house greatly improves the appearance of the servants.

The cook, having prepared the breakfast and waited at table, places in front of her mistress
a neat, wooden tub, with a little cotton- yarn mop and two clean towels, and then retreats
to the kitchen with the heavy dishes and knives and forks. The lady proceeds to wash the glass,
silver, and china, draining the things on a waiter, and wiping them on her dainty linen towels.
It is not a disagreeable operation, and all gentlemen say they like to eat and drink from utensils
which have been washed by a lady.

Having put away the glass and china, the lady shakes the table- cloth, folds it, and puts it
away. She then takes a light brush broom and sweeps the dining-room, and dusts it carefully,
opening a window to air the apartment. When this is done she sets the parlor in order. The
maid-of-all-work should, in the mean time, make a visit to the bedrooms, and do the heavy work
of turning mattresses and making beds. When this is accomplished she must return to the kitchen,
and after carefully cleaning the pots and kettles that have been in use for the morning meal,
devote an undivided attention to her arduous duties as laundress. A plain dinner for washing-day--a
beefsteak and some boiled potatoes, a salad, and a pie or pudding made on the preceding Saturday--is
all that should be required of a maid-of-all-work on Monday.

The afternoon must be spent in finishing the washing, hanging out the clothes, and preparing
the tea--an easy and informal meal, which should consist of something easy to cook; for, after
all that she has done during the day, this hard-worked girl must "tidy up" her kitchen before
she can enjoy a well-earned repose. It is so annoying to a maid-of-all-work to be obliged to
open the door for visitors that ladies often have a little girl or boy for this purpose. In
the country it can be more easily managed.

Tuesday is ironing-day all over the world, and the maid must be assisted in this time of emergency
by her mistress. Most ladies understand the process of clear starching and the best method
of ironing fine clothing; if they do not, they should. In fact, a good house-keeper should
know everything; and when a lady gives her attention to this class of household duties she
is invariably more successful in performing them than a person of less education and intelligence.

On Wednesday the maid must bake a part of the bread, cake, and pies that will be required during
the week. In this the mistress helps, making the light pastry, stoning the raisins, washing
the currants, and beating the eggs. Very often a lady fond of cookery makes all her dainty
dishes, her desserts, and her cakes and pies. She should help herself with all sorts of mechanical
appliances. She should have the best of egg-beaters, sugar-sifters, bowls in plenty, and towels
and aprons ad libitum. She has, if she be a systematic house-keeper, a store closet, which
is her pride, with its neat, labelled spice-boxes, and its pots of pickles and preserves which
she has made herself, and which, therefore, must be nice.

The cooking of meat is a thing which so affects the health of people that every lady should
study it thoroughly. No roasts should be baked. The formulary sounds like a contradiction;
but it is the custom in houses where the necessity of saving labor is an important consideration,
to put the meat that should be roasted in the oven and bake it. This is very improper, as it
dries up all the juice, which is the life-giving, life-sustaining property of the meat.

Let every young house-keeper buy a Dutch oven, and either roast the meat before the coals of
a good wood fire, or before the grating of a range, in which coals take the place of wood.
By this method she saves those properties of a piece of roast beef which are the most valuable.
Otherwise her roast meat will be a chip, a tasteless and a dry morsel, unpalatable and indigestible.

The cooking of vegetables is also to be studied; potatoes should not be over-boiled or underdone,
as they are exceedingly unhealthy if not properly cooked. Bread must be well kneaded and delicately
baked; a woman who understands the uses of fire--and every householder should--has stolen the
secret of Prometheus.

On Thursday the maid must sweep the house thoroughly, if there are heavy carpets, as this is
work for the strong-armed and the strong- handed. The mistress can follow with the dusting-brush
and the cloth, and, again, the maid may come in her footstep with step- ladder, and wipe off
mirrors and windows.

Many ladies have a different calendar from this, and prefer to have their work done on different
days; but whatever may be the system for the management of a house, it should be strictly carried
out, and all the help that may accrue from punctuality and order rendered to a maid in the
discharge of her arduous and multifarious duties.

Most families have a sort of general house-cleaning on Friday: floors are scrubbed and brasses
cleaned, the silver given a better cleansing, and the closets examined, the knives are scoured
more thoroughly, and the lady puts her linen-closet in order, throwing sweet lavender between
the sheets. On Saturday more bread and cake are baked, the Sunday's dinner prepared, that the
maid may have her Sunday afternoon out, and the busy week is ended with a clean kitchen, a
well-swept and garnished house, and all the cooking done except the Sunday meat and vegetables.

To conduct the business of a house through the week, with three meals each day, and all the
work well done; by one maid, is a very creditable thing to the mistress. The "order which is
Heaven's first law" must be her chief help in this difficult matter; she must be willing to
do much of the light work herself, and she must have a young, strong, willing maid.

CHAPTER XLVII. THE HOUSE WITH TWO SERVANTS.

The great problem of the young or middle-aged house-keeper in large cities is how to form a
neat, happy, comfortable home, and so to order the house that two servants can accomplish all
its work.

These two servants we call the cook and the waiter, and they must do all that there is to do,
including the washing.

When life was simpler, this was done without murmuring; but now it is difficult to find good
and trained servants, particularly in New York, who will fill such places. For to perform the
work of a family--to black the boots, sweep and wash the sidewalk, attend the door and lay
the table, help with the washing and ironing, and make the fires, as well as sweep and dust,
and take care of the silver-- would seem to require the hands of Briareus.

It is better to hire a girl "for general house-work," and train her for her work as waitress,
than to take one who has clone nothing else but wait at table. Be particular, when engaging
a girl, to tell her what she has to do, as many of the lofty kind object particularly to blacking
boots; and as it must be done, it is better to define it at once.

A girl filling this position should have, first, the advantage of system, and the family must
keep regular hours. She must rise at six, or earlier, if necessary, open the front-door and
parlor- blinds, and the dining-room windows, and then proceed to cleanse the front steps and
sidewalk, polish the bell-pull, and make all tidy about the mats. She must next make the fires,
if fires are used in the house, and carry down the ashes, carefully depositing them where they
will not communicate fire. She must then gather the boots and shoes from the doors of the sleeping-rooms,
and take them to the laundry, where she should brush them, having a closet there for her brushes
and blacking. Having replaced the boots beside the respective doors to which they belong, she
should make herself neat and clean, put on her cap and apron, and then prepare for laying the
table for breakfast. This she does not do until she has brushed up the floor, caused the fire
to burn brightly, and in all respects made the dining-room respectable.

The laying of the table must be a careful and neat operation; a clean cloth should be put on,
with the fold regularly running down the middle of the table, the silver and glass and china
placed neatly and in order, the urn-lamp lighted, and the water put to boil, the napkins fresh
and well-folded, and the chairs drawn up in order on either side. It is well worth a mistress's
while to preside at this work for two or three mornings, to see that her maid understands her
wishes.

All being in order, the maid may ring a bell, or knock at the doors, or rouse the family as
they may wish. When breakfast is over she removes the dishes, and washes the silver and china
in the pantry. After putting everything away, and opening a window in the dining- room, she
proceeds to the bedrooms.

Every one should, before leaving his bedroom, open a window and turn back the clothes, to air
the room and the bed thoroughly. If this has been neglected, it is the servant's business to
do it, and to make the beds, wash the basins, and leave everything very clean. She must also
dust the bureaus and tables and chairs, hang up the dresses, put away the shoes, and set everything
in order.

She then descends to the parlor floor, and makes it neat, and thence to the kitchen, where,
if she has time, she does a little washing; but if there is to be luncheon or early dinner,
she cannot do much until that is prepared, particularly if it is her duty to answer a bell.
In a doctor's house, or in a house where there are many calls, some one to attend exclusively
at the door is almost indispensable.

After the early dinner or lunch, the maid has a few hours' washing and ironing before getting
ready for the late dinner or tea, which is the important meal of the day. If she is systematic,
and the family are punctual, a girl can do a great deal of washing and ironing on Monday, Tuesday,
and Wednesday, even if she has to answer the bell; but if she is not systematic, and the meals
are not at regular hours, she cannot do much.

On Thursday, which we have already designated as sweeping day, she must sweep the whole house,
all the carpets, shake the rugs in the back yard, shake and sweep down the heavy curtains,
and dust the mirror-frames with a long feather-duster. The mistress can help her by insisting
that her family shall leave their rooms early, and by herself refusing to see visitors on sweeping
day.

On Friday, in addition to the usual daily work, the silver must be polished, the brass rubbed,
and the closets (which, in the hurry of the week's work, may have been neglected), carefully
cleaned and ventilated, On Friday afternoon the napkins and towels should be washed.

On Saturday these should be ironed, and everything, so far as possible, made ready for Sunday.

The cook, meantime, should rise even earlier than the waiter; should descend in time to receive
the milkman, the iceman, and the breadman; should unlock the basement-door, sweep out the hall,
and take in the barrels which have been left out with the ashes and other refuse.

A cook should be instructed never to give away the beef-dripping, as, if clarified in cold
water, it is excellent for frying oysters, etc., and saves butter. The cook should air the
kitchen and laundry, build the fire in the range, and sweep carefully before she begins to cook.

A careful house-keeper takes care that her cook shall make her toilet in her room, not in the
kitchen. Particularly should she be made to arrange her hair upstairs, as some cooks have an
exceedingly nasty habit of combing their hair in the kitchen. It will repay a house-keeper
to make several visits to the kitchen at unexpected hours.

Cooks vary so decidedly in their way of preparing meals that no general directions can be given;
but the best should be made to follow certain rules, and the worst should be watched and guarded.
A great cleanliness as to pots and kettles, particularly the teakettle, should be insisted
upon, and the closets, pails, barrels, etc., be carefully watched. Many a case of typhoid fever
can be traced to the cook's slop-pail, or closets, or sink, and no lady should be careless
of looking into all these places.

A cook, properly trained, can get up a good breakfast out of remains of the dinner of the preceding
day, or some picked-up cod-fish, toast, potatoes sliced and fried, or mashed, boiled, stewed,
or baked. The making of good clear coffee is not often understood by the green Irish cook.
The mistress must teach her this useful art, and also how to make good tea, although the latter
is generally made on the table.

With the sending up of the breakfast comes the first chance of a collision between cook and
waiter; and disagreeable, bad-tempered servants make much of this opportunity. The cook in
city houses puts the dinner on the dumb-waiter and sends it up to the waiter, who takes it
off. All the heavy meat-dishes and the greasy plates are sent down to the cook to wash, and
herein lies many a grievance which the mistress can anticipate and prevent by forbidding the
use of the dumb-waiter if it leads to quarrelling, and by making the maids carry all the plates
and dishes up and down. This course of treatment will soon cure them of their little tempers.

In plain households the cook has much less to do than the waiter; she should therefore undertake
the greater part of the washing and ironing. Many very good cooks will do all the washing and
ironing except the table linen and the towels used by the waiter; and if this arrangement is
made at first, no trouble ensues. The great trouble in most households comes from the fact
that the work is not definitely divided, and that one servant declares that the other is imposing
upon her.

If a mistress is fair, honorable, strict, and attentive, she can thus carry on a large household
(if there are no young children) with two energetic servants. She cannot, of course, have elegant
house-keeping; it is a very arduous undertaking to conduct a city house with the assistance
of only two people. Many young house- keepers become discouraged, and many old ones do so as
well, and send the washing and ironing to a public laundry. But as small incomes are the rule,
and as most people must economize, it has been done, and it can be done. The mistress will
find it to her advantage to have a very great profusion of towels and dusters, and also to
supply the kitchen with every requisite utensil for cooking a good dinner, or for the execution
of the ordinary daily work--such tools as an ice-hammer, a can-opener, plenty of corkscrews,
a knife- sharpener and several large, strong knives, a meat-chopper and bread-baskets, stone
pots and jars. The modern refrigerator has simplified kitchen-work very much, and no one who
has lived long enough to remember when it was not used can fail to bless its airy and cool
closets and its orderly arrangements.

The "privileges" of these hard-worked servants should be respected. "An evening a week, and
every other Sunday afternoon," is a formula not to be forgotten. Consider what it is to them!
Perhaps a visit to a sick sister or mother, a recreation much needed, a simple pleasure, but
one which is to them what a refreshing book, a visit to the opera, or a drive in the park,
is to their employers. Only a very cruel mistress will ever fail to keep her promise to a faithful
servant on these too infrequent holidays.

The early Sunday dinner is an inconvenience, but it is due to the girls who count on their
"Sunday out" to have it always punctually given to them.

Many devout Catholics make their church-going somewhat inconvenient, but they should not be
thwarted in it. It is to them something more than it is to Protestants, and a devout Catholic
is to be respected and believed in. No doubt there are very bad-tempered and disagreeable girls
who make a pretence of religion, but the mistress should be slow to condemn, lest she wrong
one who is sincerely pious.

In sickness, Irish girls are generally kind and accommodating, being themselves unselfish,
and are apt to show a better spirit in a time of trouble than the Swedes, the Germans, or the
Scotch, although the latter are possessed of more intelligence, and are more readily trained
to habits of order and system. The warm heart and the confused brain, the want of truth, of
the average Irish servant will perplex and annoy while it touches the sympathies of a woman
of generous spirit.

The women who would make the best house-servants are New England girls who have been brought
up in poor but comfortable homes. But they will not be servants. They have imbibed the foolish
idea that the position of a girl who does house-work is inferior in gentility to that of one
who works in a factory, or a printing-office, or a milliner's shop. It is a great mistake,
and one which fills the country with incapable wives for the working-man; for a woman who cannot
make bread or cook a decent dinner is a fraud if she marry a poor man who expects her to do it.

That would be a good and a great woman who would preach a crusade against this false doctrine--who
would say to the young women of her neighborhood, "I will give a marriage portion to any of
you who will go into domestic service, become good cooks and waiters, and will bring me your
certificates of efficiency at the end of five years."

And if those who employ could have these clear brains and thrifty hands, how much more would
they be willing to give in dollars and cents a month!

CHAPTER XLVIII. THE HOUSE WITH MANY SERVANTS.

A lady who assumes the control of an elegant house without previous training had better, for
a year at least, employ an English house- keeper, who will teach her the system necessary to
make so many servants work properly together; for, unless she knows how to manage them, each
servant will be a trouble instead of a help, and there will be no end to that exasperating
complaint, "That is not my work."

The English house-keeper is given full power by her mistress to hire and discharge servants,
to arrange their meals, their hours, and their duties, so as to make the domestic wheels run
smoothly, and to achieve that perfection of service which all who have stayed in an English
house can appreciate. She is a personage of much importance in the house. She generally dresses
in moire antique, and is lofty in her manners. She alone, except the maid, approaches the mistress,
and receives such general orders as that lady may choose to give. The house-keeper has her
own room, where she takes her meals alone, or invites those whom she wishes to eat with her.
Thus we see in English novels that the children sometimes take tea "in the house- keeper's
room." It is generally a comfortable and snug place.

But in this country very few such house-keepers can be found. The best that can be done is
to secure the services of an efficient person content to be a servant herself, who will be
a care-taker, and will train the butler, the footmen, and the maid-servants in their respective
duties.

Twelve servants are not infrequently employed in large houses in this country, and in New York
and at Newport often a larger number. These, with the staff of assistants required to cook
and wash for them, form a large force for a lady to control.

The house-keeper should hire the cook and scullery-maid, and be responsible for them; she orders
the dinner (if the lady chooses); she gives out the stores; the house linen is under her charge,
and she must attend to mending and replenishing it; she must watch over the china and silver,
and every day visit all the bedrooms to see that the chamber-maids have done their duty, and
that writing-paper and ink and pens are laid on the tables of invited guests, and that candles,
matches, and soap and towels are in their respective places.

A house-keeper should be able to make fine desserts, and to attend to all the sewing of the
family, with the assistance of a maid--that is, the mending, and the hemming of the towels,
etc. She should be firm and methodical, with a natural habit of command, and impartial in her
dealings, but strict and exacting; she should compel each servant to do his duty, as she represents
the mistress, and should be invested with her authority.

It is she who must receive the dessert when it comes from the dining-room, watch the half-emptied
bottles of wine, which men- servants nearly always appropriate for their own use, and be, in
all respects, a watch-dog for her master, as in large families servants are prone to steal
all that may fall in their way.

Unfortunately a bad house-keeper is worse than none, and can steal to her heart's content.
Such a one, hired by a careless, pleasure- loving lady in New York, stole in a twelvemonth
enough to live on for several years.

The house-keeper and the butler are seldom friends, and consequently many people consider it
wise to hire a married couple competent to perform the duties of these two positions. If the
two are honest, this is an excellent arrangement.

The butler is answerable for the property put in his charge, and for the proper performance
of the duties of the footmen under his control. He must be the judge of what men can and should
do. He is given the care of the wine, although every gentleman should keep the keys, only giving
just so much to the butler as he intends shall be used each day. The plate is given to the
butler, and he is made responsible for any articles missing; he also sees to the pantry, but
has a maid or a footman to wash the dishes and cleanse the silver. All the arrangements for
dinner devolve upon him, and when it is served he stands behind his mistress's chair. He looks
after the footman who answers the bell, and takes care that he shall be properly dressed and
at his post.

In houses where there are two or three footmen the butler serves breakfast, luncheon, tea,
and dinner, assisted by such of his acolytes as he may choose. He should also wait upon his
master, if required, see that the library and smoking-room are aired and in order, the newspaper
brought in, the magazines cut, and the paper- knife in its place. Many gentlemen in this country
send their butlers to market, and leave entirely to them the arrangement of the table.

If there is but one footman in a large house, the butler has a great deal to do, particularly
if the family be a hospitable one. When the footman is out with the carriage the butler answers
the front-door bell, but in very elegant houses there are generally two footmen, as this is
not strictly the duty of a butler.

A lady's-maid is indispensable to ladies who visit much, but this class of servant is the most
difficult to manage. Ladies'-maids must be told, when hired, that they can have no such position
in America as they have in England: that they must make their own beds, wash their own clothing,
and eat with the other servants. They must be first-rate hair-dressers, good packers of trunks,
and understand dress-making and fine starching, and be amiable, willing, and pleasant. A woman
who combines these qualifications commands very high wages, and expects, as her perquisite,
her mistress's cast-off dresses.

French maids are in great demand, as they have a natural taste in all things pertaining to
dress and the toilet, but they are apt to be untruthful and treacherous. If a lady can get
a peasant girl from some rural district, she will find her a most useful and valuable maid
after she has been taught.

Many ladies educate some clever girl who has been maid for the position of house-keeper, and
such a person, who can be trusted to hire an assistant, becomes invaluable. She often accomplishes
all the dress-making and sewing for the household, and her salary of thirty dollars a month
is well earned.

As the duties of a lady's-maid, where there are young ladies, include attending them in the
streets and to parties, she should be a person of unquestioned respectability. The maid should
bring up the hot water for her ladies, and an early cup of tea, prepare their bath, assist
at their toilet, put their clothes away, be ready to aid in every change of dress, put out
their various dresses for riding, dining, walking, and for afternoon tea, dress their hair
for dinner, and be ready to find for them their gloves, shoes, and other belongings.

A maid can be, and generally is, the most disagreeable of creatures; but some ladies have the
tact to make good servants out of most unpromising materials.

The maid, if she does not accompany her mistress to a party and wait for her in the dressing-room,
should await her arrival at home, assist her to undress, comb and brush her hair, and get ready
the bath. She should also have a cup of hot tea or chocolate in readiness for her. She must
keep her clothes in order, sew new ruffles in her dresses, and do all the millinery and dress-making
required of her.

Very often the maid is required to attend to the bric-...-brac and pretty ornaments of the
mantel, to keep fresh flowers in the drawing-room or bedroom, and, above all, to wash the pet
dog. As almost all women are fond of dogs, this is not a disagreeable duty to a French maid,
and she gives Fifine his bath without grumbling. But if she be expected to speak French to
the children, she sometimes rebels, particularly if she and the nurse should not be good friends.

A lady, in hiring a maid, should specify the extra duties she will be required to perform,
and thus give her the option of refusing the situation. If she accepts it, she must be made
strictly to account for any neglect or omission of her work. A maid with an indulgent mistress
is free in the evenings, after eight o'clock, and every Sunday afternoon.

In families where there are many children, two nurses are frequently required--a head nurse
and an assistant.

The nursery governess is much oftener employed now in this country than in former years. This
position is often filled by well-mannered and well-educated young women, who are the daughters
of poor men, and obliged to earn their own living. These young women, if they are good and
amiable, are invaluable to their mistresses. They perform the duties of a nurse, wash and dress
the children, eat with them and teach them, the nursery-maid doing the coarse, rough work of
the nursery. If a good nursery governess can be found, she is worth her weight in gold to her
employer. She should not cat with the servants; there should be a separate table for her and
her charges. This meal is prepared by the kitchen-maid, who is a very important functionary,
almost an under-cook, as the chief cook in such an establishment as we are describing is absorbed
in the composition of the grand dishes and dinners.

The kitchen-maid should be a good plain-cook, and clever in making the dishes suitable for
children. Much of the elementary cooking for the dining-room, such as the foundation for sauces
and soups, and the roasted and boiled joints, is required of her, and she also cooks the servants'
dinner, which should be an entirely different meal from that served in the dining-room. Nine
meals a day are usually cooked in a family living in this manner--breakfast for servants, children,
and the master and mistress, three; children's dinner, servants' dinner, and luncheon, another
three; and the grand dinner at seven, the children's tea, and the servants' supper, the remaining
three.

Where two footmen are in attendance, the head footman attends the door, waits on his mistress
when she drives out, carries notes, assists the butler, lays the table and clears it, and washes
glass, china, and silver. The under-footman rises at six, makes fires, cleans boots, trims
and cleans the lamps, opens the shutters and the front-door, sweeps down the steps, and, indeed,
does the rougher part of the work before the other servants begin their daily duties. Each
should be without mustache, clean shaven, and clad in neat livery. His linen and white neck-tie
should be, when he appears to wait on the family at table or in any capacity, immaculate.

The servants' meals should be punctual and plenteous, although not luxurious. It is a bad plan
to feed servants on the luxuries of the master's table, but a good cook will be able to compound
dishes for the kitchen that will be savory and palatable.

CHAPTER XLIX. MANNERS.--A STUDY FOR THE AWKWARD AND THE SHY.

It is a comfort to those of us who have felt the cold perspiration start on the brow, at the
prospect of entering an unaccustomed sphere, to remember that the best men and women whom the
world has known have been, in their day, afflicted with shyness. Indeed, it is to the past
that we must refer when the terrible disease seizes us, when the tongue becomes dry in the
mouth, the hands tremble, and the knees knock together.

Who does not pity the trembling boy when, on the evening of his first party, he succumbs to
this dreadful malady? The color comes in spots on his face, and his hands are cold and clammy.
He sits down on the stairs and wishes he were dead. A strange sensation is running down his
back. "Come, Peter, cheer up," his mother says, not daring to tell him how she sympathizes
with him. He is afraid to be afraid, he is ashamed to be ashamed. Nothing can equal this moment
of agony. The whole room looks black before him as some chipper little girl, who knows not
the meaning of the word "embarrassment," comes to greet him. He crawls off to the friendly
shelter of a group of boys, and sees the "craven of the playground,  the dunce of the school,"
with a wonderful self-possession, lead off in the german with the prettiest girl. As he grows
older, and becomes the young man whose duty it is to go to dinners and afternoon parties, this
terrible weakness will again overcome him. He has done well at college, can make a very good
speech at the club suppers, but at the door of a parlor he feels himself a drivelling idiot.
He assumes a courage, if he has it not, and dashes into a room (which is full of people) as
he would attack a forlorn hope. There is safety in numbers, and he retires to a corner.

When he goes to a tea-party a battery of feminine eyes gazes at him with a critical perception
of his youth and rawness. Knowing that he ought to be supremely graceful and serene, he stumbles
over a footstool, and hears a suppressed giggle. He reaches his hostess, and wishes she were
the "cannon's mouth," in order that his sufferings might be ended; but she is not. His agony
is to last the whole evening. Tea-parties are eternal: they never end; they are like the old-fashioned
ideas of a future state of torment--they grow hotter and more stifling. As the evening advances
towards eternity he upsets the cream-jug. He summons all his will-power, or he would run away.
No; retreat is impossible. One must die at the post of duty. He thinks of all the formulas
of courage--"None but the brave deserve the fair," "He either fears his fate too much, or his
deserts are small," "There is no such coward as self-consciousness," etc. But these maxima
are of no avail. His feet are feet of clay, not good to stand on, only good to stumble with.
His hands are cold, tremulous, and useless. There is a very disagreeable feeling in the back
of his neck, and a spinning sensation about the brain. A queer rumbling seizes his ears. He
has heard that "conscience makes cowards of us all." What mortal sin has he committed? His
moral sense answers back, "None. You are only that poor creature, a bashful youth." And he
bravely calls on all his nerves, muscles, and brains to help him through this ordeal. He sees
the pitying eyes of the woman to whom he is talking turn away from his countenance (on which
he knows that all his miserable shyness has written itself in legible characters). "And this
humiliation, too?" he asks of himself, as she brings him the usual refuge of the awkward--a
portfolio of photographs to look at. Women are seldom troubled, at the age at which men suffer,
with bashfulness or awkwardness. It is as if Nature thus compensated the weaker vessel. Cruel
are those women, however, and most to be reprobated, who laugh at a bashful man!

The sufferings of a shy man would fill a volume. It is a nervous seizure for which no part
of his organization is to blame; he cannot reason it away, he can only crush it by enduring
it: "To bear is to conquer our Fate." Some men, finding the play not worth the candle, give
up society and the world; others go on, suffer, and come out cool veterans who fear no tea-party,
however overwhelming it may be.

It is the proper province of parents to have their children taught all the accomplishments
of the body, that they, like the ancient Greeks, may know that every muscle will obey the brain.
A shy, awkward boy should be trained in dancing, fencing, boxing; he should be instructed in
music, elocution, and public speaking; he should be sent into society, whatever it may cost
him at first, as certainly as he should be sent to the dentist's. His present sufferings may
save him from lifelong annoyance.

To the very best men--the most learned, the most graceful, the most eloquent, the most successful--has
come at some one time or other the dreadful agony of bashfulness. Indeed, it is the higher
order of man being that it most surely attacks; it is the precursor of many excellences, and,
like the knight's vigil, if patiently and bravely borne, the knight is twice the hero. It is
this recollection, which can alone assuage the sufferer, that he should always carry with him.
He should remember that the compound which he calls himself is of all things most mixed.

"The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together." Two antagonistic races--it
may be his Grandfather Brown and his Grandmother Williams--are struggling in him for the mastery;
and their exceedingly opposite natures are pulling his arms and legs asunder. He has to harmonize
this antagonism before he becomes himself, and it adds much to his confusion to see that poor
little pretender, Tom Titmouse, talking and laughing and making merry. There are, however,
no ancestral diversities fighting for the possession of Tom Titmouse. The grandfathers and
grandmothers of Tom Titmouse were not people of strong character; they were a decorous race
on both sides, with no heavy intellectual burdens, good enough people who wore well. But does
our bashful man know this? No. He simply remembers a passage in the "Odyssey" which Tom Titmouse
could not construe, but which the bashful man read, to the delight of the tutor:

"O gods! How beloved he is, and how honored by all men to whatsoever land or city he comes!
He brings much booty from Troy, but we, having accomplished the same journey, are returning
home having empty hands!" And this messenger from Troy is Tom Titmouse!

Not that all poor scholars and inferior men have fine manners, nor do all good scholars and
superior men fail in the drawing-room. No rule is without an exception. It is, however, a comfort
to those who are awkward and shy to remember that many of the great and good and superior men
who live in history have suffered, even as they suffer, from the pin-pricks of bashfulness.
The first refuge of the inexperienced, bashful person is often to assume a manner of extreme
hauteur. This is, perhaps, a natural fence--or defence; it is, indeed, a very convenient armor,
and many a woman has fought her battle behind it through life. No doubt it is the armor of
the many so-called frigid persons, male and female, who must either suffer the pangs of bashfulness,
or affect a coldness which they do not feel. Some people are naturally encased in a column
of ice which they cannot break, but within is a fountain which would burst out at the lips
in words of kindliness if only the tongue could speak them. These limitations of nature are
very strange; we cannot explain them. It is only by referring to Grandfather Brown and Grandmother
Williams again that we understand them at all. One person will be furnished with very large
feet and very small hands, with a head disproportionately large for the body, or one as remarkably
small. Differences of race must account for these eccentricities of nature; we cannot otherwise
explain them, nor the mental antagonisms, But the awkward and the shy do not always take refuge
in a cold manner; Sometimes they study manner as they would the small-sword exercise, and exploit
it-with equal fervor. Exaggeration of manner is quite as common a refuge for these unfortunates
as the other extreme of calmness. They render themselves ridiculous by the lowness of their
bows and the vivid picturesqueness of their speech. They, as it were, burst the bounds of the
calyx, and the flower opens too wide. Symmetry is lost, graceful outline is destroyed. Many
a bashful man, thinking of Tom Titmouse, has become an acrobat in his determination to be lively
and easy. He should remember the juste milieu, recommended by Shakespeare when he says,

"They are as sick that surfeit with too much. As they that starve with nothing."

The happy people who are born unconscious of their bodies, who grow through life more and more
graceful, easy, cordial, and agreeable; the happy few Who were never bashful, never nervous,
never had clammy hands, they need not read these pages--they are not written for such blessed
eyes. It is for the well-meaning, but shy and awkward, people that the manners of artificial
society are most useful.

For the benefit of such persons we must "improve a ceremonial nicety into a substantial duty,"
else we shall see a cultivated scholar confused before a set of giggling girls, and a man who
is all Wisdom, valor and learning, playing the donkey at an evening party. If he lack the inferior
arts of polite behavior, who will take the trouble to discover a Sir Walter Raleigh behind
his cravat?

A man who is constrained, uneasy, and ungraceful, can spoil the happiness of a dozen people.
Therefore he is bound to create an artificial manner, if a natural one does not come to him,
remembering always that "manners are shadows of virtues."

The manners of artificial society have this to commend them: they meditate the greatest good
to the greatest number. We do not like the word "artificial," or to commend anything which
is supposed to be the antipodes of the word "sincere," but it is a recipe, a doctor's prescription
that we are recommending as a cure for a disease. "Good manners are to special societies what
good morals are to society in general--their cement and their security. True politeness creates
perfect ease and freedom; it and its essence is to treat others as you would have others treat
you." Therefore, as you know how embarrassing embarrassment is to everybody else, strive not
to be embarrassed.

CHAPTER L. HOW TO TREAT A GUEST.

No one possessed of his senses would invite a person to his country house for the purpose of
making him unhappy. At least so we should say at first thought. But it is an obvious fact that
very many guests are invited to the country houses of their friends, and are made extremely
miserable while there. They have to rise at unusual hours, eat when they are not hungry, drive
or walk or play tennis when they would prefer to do everything else, and they are obliged to
give up those hours which are precious to them for other duties or pleasures; so that many
people, after an experience of visiting, are apt to say, "No more of the slavery of visiting
for me, if you please!"

Now the English in their vast country houses have reduced the custom of visiting and receiving
their friends to a system. They are said to be in all respects the best hosts in the world,
the masters of the letting-alone system. A man who owns a splendid place near London invites
a guest for three days or more, and carefully suggests when he shall come and when he shall
go--a very great point in hospitality. He is invited to come by the three o'clock train on
Monday, and to leave by the four o'clock train on Thursday. That means that he shall arrive
before dinner on Monday, and leave after luncheon on Thursday. If a guest cannot accede to
these hours, he must write and say so. Once arrived, he rarely meets his host or hostess until
dinner-time. He is conducted to his room, a cup of tea with some light refreshment is provided,
and the well-bred servant in attendance says at what hour before dinner he will be received
in the drawing-room. It is possible that some member of the family may be disengaged and may
propose a drive before dinner, but this is not often done; the guest is left to himself or
herself until dinner. General and Mrs. Grant were shown to their rooms at Windsor Castle, and
locked up there, when they visited the Queen, until the steward came to tell them that dinner
would be served in half an hour; they were then conducted to the grand salon, where the Queen
presently entered. In less stately residences very much the same ceremony is observed. The
hostess, after dinner and before the separation for the night, tells her guests that horses
will be at their disposal the next morning, and also asks if they would like to play lawn-
tennis, if they wish to explore the park, at what hour they will breakfast, or if they will
breakfast in their rooms. "Luncheon is at one; and she will be happy to see them at that informal
meal."

Thus the guest has before him the enviable privilege of spending the day as he pleases. He
need not talk unless he choose; he may take a book and wander off under the trees; he may take
a horse and explore the county, or he may drive in a victoria, phaeton, or any other sort of
carriage. To a lady who has her letters to write, her novel to read, or her early headache
to manage, this liberty is precious.

It must also be said that no one is allowed to feel neglected in an English house. If a lady
guest says, "I am a stranger; I should like to see your fine house and your lovely park," some
one is found to accompany her. Seldom the hostess, for she has much else to do; but there is
often a single sister, a cousin, or a very intelligent governess, who is summoned. In our country
we cannot offer our guests all these advantages; we can, however, offer them their freedom,
and give them, with our limited hospitality, their choice of hours for breakfast and their
freedom from our society.

But the questioner may ask, Why invite guests, unless we wish to see them? We do wish to see
them--a part of the day, not the whole day. No one can sit and talk all day. The hostess should
have her privilege of retiring after the mid-day meal, with her novel, for a nap, and so should
the guest: Well-bred people understand all this, and are glad to give up the pleasure of social
intercourse for an hour of solitude. There is nothing so sure to repay one in the long run
as these quiet hours.

If a lady invites another to visit her at Newport or Saratoga, she should evince her thought
for her guest's comfort by providing her with horses and carriage to pay her own visits, to
take her own drives, or to do her shopping. Of course, the pleasure of two friends is generally
to be together, and to do the same things; but sometimes it is quite the reverse.

The tastes and habits of two people staying in the same house may be very different, and each
should respect the peculiarities of the other. It costs little time and no money for an opulent
Newport hostess to find out what her guest wishes to do with her day, and she can easily, with
a little tact, allow her to be happy in her own way.

Gentlemen understand this much better than ladies, and a gentleman guest is allowed to do very
much as he pleases at Newport. No one asks anything about his plans for the day, except if
he will dine at home. His hostess may ask him to drive or ride with her, or to go to the Casino,
perhaps; but if she be a well-bred woman of the world she will not be angry if he refuses.
A lady guest has not, however, such freedom; she is apt to be a slave, from the fact that as
yet the American hostess has not learned that the truest hospitality is to let her guest alone,
and to allow her to enjoy herself in her own way. A thoroughly well-bred guest makes no trouble
in a house; she has the instinct of a lady, and is careful that no plan of her hostess shall
be disarranged by her presence. She mentions all her, separate invitations, desires to know
when her hostess wishes her presence, if the carriage can take her hither and yon, or if she
may be allowed to hire a carriage.

There are hostesses, here and in England, who do not invite guests to their houses for the
purpose of making them happy, but to add to their own importance. Such hostesses are not apt
to consider the individual rights of any one, and they use a guest merely to add to the brilliancy
of their parties, and to make the house more fashionable and attractive. Some ill-bred women,
in order to show their power, even insult and ill treat the people who have accepted their
proffered hospitality. This class of hostess is, fortunately, not common, but it is not unknown.

A hostess should remember that, when she asks people to visit her, she has two very important
duties to perform--one, not to neglect her guests; the other, not to weary them by too much
attention. Never give a guest the impression that he is "being entertained," that he is on
your mind; follow the daily life of your household and of your duties as you desire, taking
care that your guest is never in an unpleasant position or neglected. If you have a tiresome
guest who insists upon following you around and weighing heavily on your hands, be firm, go
to your own room, and lock the door. If you have a sulky guest who looks bored, throw open
the library-door, order the carriage, and make your own escape. But if you have a very agreeable
guest who shows every desire to please and be pleased, give that model guest the privilege
of choosing her own hours and her own retirement.

The charm of an American country-house is, generally, that it is a home, and sacred to home
duties. A model guest never infringes for one moment on the rights of the master of the house.
She never spoils his dinner or his drive by being late; she never sends him back to bring her
parasol; she never abuses his friends or the family dog; she is careful to abstain from disagreeable
topics; she joins his whist-table if she knows how to play; but she ought never to be obliged
to rise an hour earlier than her wont because he wishes to take an early train for town. These
early-morning, perfunctory breakfasts are not times for conversation, and they ruin the day
for many bad sleepers.

In a country neighborhood a hostess has sometimes to ask her guests to go to church to hear
a stupid preacher, and to go to her country neighbors, to become acquainted with what may be
the slavery of country parties. The guest should always be allowed to refuse these hospitalities;
and, if he be a tired townsman, he will prefer the garden, the woodland, the retirement of
the country, to any church or tea-party in the world. He cannot enter into his host's interests
or his neighbor's. Leave him to his solitude if in that is his happiness.

At Newport guest and hostess have often different friends and different invitations. When this
is understood, no trouble ensues if the host and hostess go out to dinner and leave the guest
at home. It often happens that this is done, and no lady of good-breeding takes offence. Of
course a nice dinner is prepared for her, and she is often asked to invite a friend to share it.

On the other hand, the guest often has invitations which do not include the hostess. These
should be spoken of in good season, so that none of the hostess's plans may be disarranged,
that the carriage may be ordered in time, and the guest sent for at the proper hour. Well-bred
people always accept these contingencies as a matter of course, and are never disconcerted by them.

There is no office in the world which should be filled with such punctilious' devotion, propriety,
and self-respect as that of hostess. If a lady ever allows her guest to feel that she is a
cause of inconvenience, she violates the first rule of hospitality. If she fail in any way
in her obligations as hostess to a guest whom she has invited, she shows herself to be ill-bred
and ignorant of the first principles of politeness. She might better invite twelve people to
dinner and then ask them to dine on the pavement than ignore or withdraw from a written and
accepted invitation, unless sickness or death afford the excuse; and yet hostesses have been
known to do this from mere caprice. But they were necessarily ill- bred people.

CHAPTER LI. LADY AND GENTLEMAN.

The number of questions asked by correspondents on the subject of the proper use of the familiar
words lady and woman, and of the titles of married women, induces the reflection that the "woman"
question is one which rivals in universal interest those of Nihilism, Irish rebellion, and
the future presidency. It is not, however, of ultimate importance to a woman what she is called,
as arose by any other name would smell as sweet, but it is of importance to those who speak
of her, because by their speech "shall ye know them," whether fashionable or unfashionable,
whether old or young, whether welt-bred or ill-bred, whether stylish or hopelessly rococo!

Nothing, for instance, Can be in worse taste than to say "she is a beautiful lady," or "a clever
lady." One should always say "beautiful woman," "clever woman." The would-be genteel make this
mistake constantly, and in the Rosa-Matilda style of novel the gentleman always kneels to the
lady, and the fair ladies are scattered broadcast through the book, while the fine old Saxon
word "woman" is left out, or not properly used.

Now it would be easy enough to correct this if we could only tell our correspondents always
to use the word "woman." But unfortunately we are here constrained to say that would be equally
"bad form." No gentleman would say, "I am travelling with women." He would say, "I am travelling
with ladies." He would not say, "When I want to take my women to the theatre." He would say,
"When I want to take my ladies." He would speak of his daughters as "young ladies," etc., etc.
But if he were writing a novel about these same young ladies, he would avoid the word "lady"
as feeble, and in speaking of emotions, looks, qualities, etc., he would use the word "woman."

Therefore, as a grand generic distinction, we can say that "woman" should be used when the
realities of life and character are treated of. "Lady" should be used to express the outside
characteristics, the conditions of cultivated society, and the respectful, distant, and chivalric
etiquette which society claims for women when members thereof.

Then, our querist may ask, Why is the term, "she is a beautiful lady," so hopelessly out of
style? Why does it betray that the speaker has not lived in a fashionable set? Why must we
say "nice woman," "clever woman," "beautiful woman," etc.

The only answer to this is that the latter phraseology is a caprice of fashion into which plain-spoken
people were driven by the affectations of the shabby-genteel and half-instructed persons who
have ruined two good words for us by misapplication. One is "genteel," which means gentle,
and the other is "lady," which means everything which is refined, cultivated, elegant, and
aristocratic. Then as to the term "woman," this nomenclature has been much affected by the
universal sans-culottism of the French Revolution, when the queen was called citoyenne. Much,
again, from a different cause, comes from our own absurd want of self-respect, which has accrued
in this confusion of etiquette in a republic, as for instance, "I am a lady--as much a lady
as anybody--and I want to be called a lady," remarked a nurse who came for a situation to the
wife of one of our presidents. "I have just engaged a colored lady as a cook," remarked a nouveau
riche. No wonder that when the word came to be thus misapplied the lover of good English undefiled
began to associate the word "lady" with pretension, ignorance, and bad grammar.

Still, no "real lady" would say to her nurse, "A woman is coming to stay with me." To servants
the term "lady," as applied to a coming guest, is indispensable. So of a gentleman she would
say to her servant, "A gentleman is coming to stay here for a week;" but to her husband or
son she would say, "He is a clever man," rather than, "He is a clever gentleman."

We might almost say that no women talk to men about "gentlemen," and no men talk to women about
"ladies," in fashionable society. A woman in good society speaks of the hunting men, the dancing
men, the talking men. She does not say "gentleman," unless in some such connection as this,
"No gentleman would do such a thing," if some breach of etiquette had occurred. And yet no
man would come into a lady's drawing-room saying, "Where are the girls?" or "Where are the
women?" He would Say; "Where are the young ladies?"

It therefore requires a fine ear and a fine sense of  modern fashion and of eternal propriety
always to choose the right word in the delicate and almost unsettled estate of these two epithets.
"Ladylike" can never go out of fashion. It is at once a compliment of the highest order and
a suggestion of subtle perfection. The word "woman" does not reach up to this, because in its
broad and strong etymology it may mean a washer-woman, a fighting woman, a coarse woman, alas!
a drunken woman. If we hear of "a drunken lady," we see a downfall, a glimpse of better days;
chloral, opium, even cologne, may have brought her to it. The word still saves her miserable
reputation a little. But the words "a drunken woman" merely suggest whiskey, degradation, squalor,
dirt, and the tenement-house.

It is evident, therefore, that we cannot do without the word "lady." It is the outgrowth of
years of chivalric devotion, and of that progress in the history of woman which has ever been
raising her from her low estate. To the Christian religion first does she owe her rise; to
the institution of chivalry, to the growth of civilization since, has woman owed her continual
elevation. She can never go back to the degradation of those days when, in Greece and Rome,
she was not allowed to eat with her husband and sons. She waited on them as a servant. Now
they in every country serve her, if they are gentlemen. But, owing to a curious twist in the
way of looking at things, she is now undoubtedly the tyrant, and in fashionable society she
is often imperiously ill-bred, and requires that her male slaves be in a state of servitude
to which the Egyptian bondage would have been light frivolity.

American women are said to be faulty in manners, particularly in places of public amusement,
in railway travelling, in omnibuses, and in shops. Men complain very much that the fairer sex
are very brutal on these occasions. "I wish women would behave like ladies," said a man at
a matin,e. "Yes," said his friend, "I wish they would behave like men." Just then a sharp feminine
elbow was thrust into his chest. "I wish gentlemen would not crowd so," was the remark which
accompanied the "dig under the fifth rib" from a person whom no one could call a lady.

In speaking to a servant, either a lady or a gentleman will ever be patient, courteous, kind,
not presuming on his or her power. But there should always be a certain ceremony observed,
and a term of respect to the person spoken of. Therefore a mistress will not say "Have the
girls come in?" "Is Lucy home?" She will say: "Have the young ladies come in?" "Is Miss Lucy
at home?" This sort of dignified etiquette has the happiest and the most beneficial result
on the relations of mistress and servant.

In modern literature the terms man and woman have nearly obliterated the words gentleman and
lady, and we can hardly imagine a more absurd phrase than the following: "I asked Mary what
she thought of Charles, and she said he was a beautiful gentleman, and Charles said that Mary
was a lovely lady; so it was quite natural that I should try to bring them together," etc., etc.

Still, in poetry we like the word lady. "If my lady loves me true," is much better than "if
my woman loves me true" would be; so there, again, we have the contradiction, for the Anglo-Saxon
rule of using the word "woman" when anything real or sincere in emotion is in question is here
honored in the breach. But this is one of the many shadowy conflicts which complicate this subject.

The term "lady" is like the word "gentry" in England--it is elastic. All persons coming within
the category of "gentry" may attend the Queen's Drawing-room, yet it is well understood that
birth, wealth, association, and position give the raison d'^tre for the use of such a privilege,
and in that carefully guarded English society the wife or daughters of an officer in the navy
or in a line regiment whose means are slender and whose position is obscure would not be justified
in presenting themselves at court. The same remark holds good of the wives and daughters of
clergymen, barristers, doctors, authors, and artists, although the husband, if eminent, might
attend a lev,e if he wished. Yet these women are very tenacious of the title of lady, and no
tradesman's wife would deny it to them, while she would not, if ever so rich, aspire to be
called a lady herself.

"I ain't no lady myself, but I can afford to have 'em as governesses," remarked a Mrs. Kicklebury
on the Rhine. She was not at all ashamed of the fact that she was no lady herself, yet her
compeer and equal in America, if she kept a gin-shop, would insist upon the title of lady.

A lady is a person of refinement, of education, of fashion, of birth, of prestige, of a higher
grade of some sort, if we apply the term rightly. She may be out of place through loss of fortune,
or she may have sullied her title, but a something tells us that she is still a lady. We have
a habit of saying, as some person, perhaps well decked out with fortune's favors, passes us,
"She is not a lady," and every one will know what we mean. The phrase "vulgar lady," therefore,
is an absurdity; there is no such thing; as well talk of a white blackbird; the term is self-contradictory.
If she is vulgar, she is not a lady; but there is such a thing as a vulgar woman, and it is
a very real thing.

In England they have many terms to express the word "woman" which we have not. A traveller
in the rural districts speaks of a "kindly old wife who received me," or a "wretched old crone,"
or a "saucy lassie," or a "neat maid," etc. We should use the word "woman," or "old woman,"
or "girl," for all these.

Now as to the term "old woman" or "old lady." The latter has a pretty sound. We see the soft
white curls, so like floss silk, the delicate white camel's-hair shawl, the soft lace and appropriate
black satin gown, the pretty old-fashioned manner, and we see that this is a real lady. She
may have her tricks of old-fashioned speech; they do not offend us. To be sure, she has no
slang; she does not talk about "awfully jolly," or a "ghastly way off;" she does not talk of
the boys as being a "bully lot," or the girls as being "beastly fine;" she does not say that
she is "feeling rather seedy to-day," etc. No, "our old lady" is a "lady," and it would be
in bad taste to call her an "old woman," which somehow sounds disrespectful.

Therefore we must, while begging of our correspondents to use the word "woman" whenever they
can, tell them not entirely to drop the word "lady." The real lady or gentleman is very much
known by the voice, the choice of words, the appropriate term. Nothing can be better than to
err on the side of simplicity, which is always better than gush, or over-effort, or conceit
of speech. One may be "ignorant of the shibboleth of a good set," yet speak most excellent English.

Thackeray said of George the Fourth that there was only one reason why he should not have been
called the "first gentleman in Europe," and that was because he was not a gentleman. But of
the young Duke of Albany, just deceased, no one could hesitate to speak as a gentleman. Therefore,
while we see that birth does not always make a gentleman, we still get the idea that it may
help to make one, as we do not readily connect the idea with Jeames, who was a "gentleman's
gentleman." He might have been "fine," but not "noble."

As for titles for married women, we have only the one word, "Mrs.," not even the pretty French
"Madame." But no woman should write herself "Mrs." on her checks or at the foot of her notes;
nowhere but in a hotel register or on a card should she give herself this title, simple though
it be. She is always, if she writes in the first person, "Mary Smith," even to a person she
does not know. This seems to trouble some people, who ask, "How will such a person know I am
married?" Why should they? If desirous of informing some distant servant or other person of
that fact, add in a parenthesis beneath "Mary Smith" the important addenda, "Mrs. John Smith."

When women are allowed to vote, perhaps further complications may arise. The truth is, women
have no real names. They simply are called by the name of father or husband, and if they marry
several times may well begin to doubt their own identity. Happy those who never have to sign
but one new name to their letters!

CHAPTER LII. THE MANNERS OF THE PAST.

In these days, amid what has been strongly stated as "the prevailing mediocrity of manners,"
a study of the manners of the past would seem to reveal to us the fact that in those days of
ceremony a man who was beset with shyness need then have suffered less than he would do now
in these days of impertinence and brass.

A man was not then expected to enter a room and to dash at once into a lively conversation.
The stately influence of the minuet de la cour was upon him; he deliberately entered a room,
made a low bow, and sat down, waiting to be spoken to.

Indeed, we may go farther back and imagine ourselves at the court of Louis XIV., when the world
was broadly separated into the two classes--the noble and the bourgeois. That world which Moliere
divided in his dramatis personae into the courtier, the provincial noble, and the plain gentleman;
and secondly, into the men of law and medicine, the merchant, and the shopkeeper. These divisions
shall be for a moment considered. Now, all these men knew exactly, from the day when they reached
ten years of age, how they were expected to behave in the sphere of life to which they were
called. The marquis was instructed in every art of graceful behavior, the bel air was taught
him as we teach our boys how to dance, even more thoroughly. The grand seigneur of those days,
the man who would not arrange the folds of his own cravat with his own hands, and who exacted
an observance as punctilious from his valets as if he were the king himself, that marquis of
whom the great Moliere makes such fun, the courtier whom even the grand monarque liked to see
ridiculed--this man had, nevertheless, good manners. We see him reflected with marvellous fidelity
in those wonderful comedies of the French Shakespeare; he is more than the fashion of an epoch--he
is one of the eternal types of human nature. We learn what a man becomes whose business is
"deportment." Even despicable as he is in "Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme"---flattering, borrowing
money, cheating the poor citizen, and using his rank as a mask and excuse for his vices--we
still read that it was such a one as he who took poor Moliere's cold hands in his and put them
in his muff, when, on the last dreadful day of the actor's life (with a liberality which does
his memory immortal honor), he strove to play, "that fifty poor workmen might receive their
daily pay." It was such a one as this who was kind to poor Moliere. There was in these gens
de cour a copy of fine feeling, even if they had it not, They were polite and elegant, making
the people about them feel better for the moment, doing graceful acts courteously, and gilding
vice with the polish of perfect manners. The bourgeois, according to Moliere, was as bad a
man as the courtier, but he had, besides, brutal manners; and as for the magistrates and merchants,
they were harsh and surly, and very sparing of civility. No wonder, when the French Revolution
came, that one of the victims, regretting the not-yet-forgotten marquis, desired the return
of the aristocracy; for, said he, "I would rather be trampled upon by a velvet slipper than
a wooden shoe."

It is the best definition of manners--"a velvet slipper rather than a wooden shoe." We ask
very little of the people whom we casually meet but that the salutation be pleasant; and as
we remember how many crimes and misfortunes have arisen from sudden anger, caused sometimes
by pure breaches of good manners, we almost agree with Burke that "manners are of more importance
than laws. Upon them, in a great measure, the laws depend."

Some one calls politeness "benevolence in trifles, the preference of others to ourselves in
little, daily, hourly occurrences in the business of life, a better place, a more commodious
seat, priority in being helped at table," etc.

Now, in all these minor morals the marquis was a benevolent man; he was affable and both well
and fair spoken, "and would use strange sweetness and blandishment of words when he desired
to affect or persuade anything that he took to heart"--that is, with his equals. It is well
to study this man, and to remember that he was not always vile. The Prince of Cond, had these
manners and a generous, great heart as well. Gentleness really belongs to virtue, and a sycophant
can hardly imitate it well. The perfect gentleman is he who has a strong heart under the silken
doublet of a perfect manner.

We do not want all the decent drapery of life torn off; we do not want to be told that we are
full of defects; we do not wish people to show us a latent antagonism; and if we have in ourselves
the elements of roughness, severity of judgment, a critical eye which sees defects rather than
virtues, we are bound to study how to tone down that native, disagreeable temper--just as we
are bound to try to break the icy formality of a reserved manner, and to cultivate a cordiality
which we do not feel. Such a command over the shortcomings of our own natures is not insincerity,
as we often find that the effort to make ourselves agreeable towards some one whom we dislike
ends in leading us to like the offending person. We find that we have really been the offender,
going about with a moral tape-measure graduated by ourselves, and measuring the opposite party
with a serene conceit which has called itself principle or honor, or some high-sounding name,
while it was really nothing but prejudice.

We should try to carry entertainment with us, and to seem entertained with our company. A friendly
behavior often conciliates and pleases more than wit or brilliancy; and here we come back to
those polished manners of the past, which were a perfect drapery, and therefore should be studied,
and perhaps in a degree copied, by the awkward and the shy, who cannot depend upon themselves
for inspirations of agreeability.

It does the awkward and the shy good to contemplate these words. It may not immediately help
them to become graceful and self-possessed, but it will certainly have a very good effect in
inducing them to try.

We find that the successful man of the world has studied the temper of the finest sword. He
can bend easily, he is flexible, he is pliant, and yet he has not lost the bravery and the
power of his weapon. Men of the bar, for instance, have been at the trouble to construct a
system of politeness, in which even an offensive self- estimation takes on the garb of humility.
The harmony is preserved, a trial goes on with an appearance of deference and respect each
to the other, highly, most highly, commendable, and producing law and order where otherwise
we might find strife, hatred, and warfare. Although this may be a mimic humility, although
the compliments may be judged insincere, they are still the shadows of the very highest virtues.
The man who is guarding his speech is ruling his spirit; he is keeping his temper, that furnace
of all affliction, and the lofty chambers of his brain are cool and full of fresh air.

A man who is by nature clownish, and who has what he calls a "noble sincerity," is very apt
to do injustice to the polished man; he should, however, remember that "the manner of a vulgar
man has freedom without ease, and that the manner of a gentleman has ease without freedom."
A man with an obliging, agreeable address may be just as sincere as if he had the noble art
of treading on everybody's toes. The "putter-down-upon-system" man is quite as often urged
by love of display as by a love of truth; he is ungenerous, combative, and ungenial; he is
the "bravo of society."

To some people a fine manner is the gift of nature. We see a young person enter a room, make
himself charming, go through the transition period of boy to man, always graceful, and at man's
estate aim to still possess that unconscious and flattering grace, that "most exquisite taste
of politeness," which is a gift from the gods. He is exactly formed to please, this lucky creature,
and all this is done for him by nature. We are disposed to abuse Mother Nature when we think
of this boy's heritage of joy compared with her step-son, to whom she has given the burning
blushes, the awkward step, the heavy self-consciousness, the uncourtly gait, the hesitating
speech, and the bashful demeanor.

But nothing would be omitted by either parent or child to cure the boy if he had a twisted
ankle, so nothing should be omitted that can, cure the twist of shyness, and therefore a shy
young person should not be expected to confront such a trial.

And to those who have the bringing up of shy young persons we commend these excellent words
of Whately: "There are many otherwise sensible people who seek to cure a young person of that
very common complaint--shyness--by exhorting him not to be shy, telling him what an awkward
appearance it has, and that it prevents his doing himself justice, all of which is manifestly
pouring oil on the fire to quench it; for the very cause of shyness is an over-anxiety as to
what people are thinking of you, a morbid attention to your own appearance. The course, therefore,
that ought to be pursued is exactly the reverse. The sufferer should be exhorted to think as
little as possible about himself and the opinion formed of him, to be assured that most of
the company do not trouble their heads about him, and to harden him against any impertinent
criticisms that he supposed to be going on, taking care only to do what is right, leaving others
to say and to think what they will."

All this philosophy is excellent, and is like the sensible archbishop. But the presence of
a set of carefully cultivated, artificial manners, or a hat to hold in one's hand, will better
help the shy person when he is first under fire, and when his senses are about deserting him,
than any moral maxims can be expected to do.

Carlyle speaks of the fine manners of his peasant father (which he does not seem to have inherited),
and he says: "I think-that they came from his having, early in life, worked for Maxwell, of
Keir, a Scotch gentleman of great dignity and worth, who gave to all those under him a fine
impression of the governing classes." Old Carlyle had no shame in standing with his hat off
as his landlord passed; he had no truckling spirit either of paying court to those whose lot
in life it was to be his superiors.

Those manners of the past were studied; they had, no doubt, much about them which we should
now call stiff, formal, and affected, but they were a great help to the awkward and the shy.

In the past our ancestors had the help of costume, which we have not. Nothing is more defenceless
than a being in a dress-coat, with no pockets allowable in which he can put his hands. If a
man is in a costume he forgets the sufferings of the coat and pantaloon. He has a sense of
being in a fortress. A military man once said that he always fought better in his uniform--that
a fashionably cut coat and an every-day hat took all heroism out of him.

Women, particularly shy ones, feel the effect of handsome clothes as a reinforcement. "There
is an appui in a good gown," said Madame de Sta%l. Therefore, the awkward and the shy, in attempting
to conquer the manners of artificial society, should dress as well as possible. Perhaps to
their taste in dress do Frenchmen owe much of their easy civility and their success in social
politics; and herein women are very much more fortunate than men, for they can always ask,
"Is it becoming?" and can add the handkerchief, fan, muff, or mantle as a refuge for trembling
hands. A man has only his pockets; he does not wish to always appear with his hands in them.

Taste is said to be the instantaneous, ready appreciation of the fitness of things. To most
of us who may regret the want of it in ourselves, it seems to be the instinct of the fortunate
few. Some women look as if they had simply blossomed out of their inner consciousness into
a beautiful toilet; others are the creatures of chance, and look as if their clothes had been
hurled at them by a tornado.

Some women, otherwise good and true, have a sort of moral want of taste, and wear too bright
colors, too many glass beads, too much hair, and a combination of discordant materials which
causes the heart of a good dresser to ache with anguish. This want of taste runs across the
character like an intellectual bar-sinister, forcing us to believe that their conclusions are
anything but legitimate. People who say innocently things which shock you, who put the listeners
at a dinner-table upon tenter-hooks, are either wanting in taste or their minds are confused
with shyness.

A person thus does great injustice to his own moral qualities when he permits himself to be
misrepresented by that disease of which we speak. Shyness perverts the speech more than vice
even. But if a man or a woman can look down on a well-fitting, becoming dress (even if it is
the barren and forlorn dress which men wore to parties in 1882), it is still an appui. We know
how it offends us to see a person in a dress which is inappropriate. A chief-justice in the
war-paint and feathers of an Indian chief would scarcely be listened to, even if his utterances
were those of a Marshall or a Jay.

It takes a great person, a courageous person, to bear the shame of unbecoming dress; and, no
doubt, to a nature shy, passionate, proud, and poor, the necessity of wearing poor or unbecoming
clothes has been an injury for life. He despised himself for his weakness, but the weakness
remained. When the French Revolution came in with its sans-culotteism, and republican simplicity
found its perfect expression in Thomas Jefferson, still, the prejudices of powdered hair and
stiff brocades remained. They gradually disappeared, and the man of the nineteenth century
lost the advantages of becoming dress, and began anew the battle of life stripped of all his
trappings. Manners went with these flowing accessaries, and the abrupt speech, curt bow, and
rather exaggerated simplicity of the present day came in.

But it is a not unworthy study--these manners of the past. We are returning, at least on the
feminine side, to a great and magnificent "princess," or queenly, style of dress. It is becoming
the fashion to make a courtesy, to flourish a fan, to bear one's self with dignity when in
this fine costume. Cannot the elegance, the repose, and the respectfulness of the past return also?

CHAPTER LIII. THE MANNERS OF THE OPTIMIST.

It is very easy to laugh at the optimist, and to accuse him of "poetizing the truth." No doubt,
an optimist will see excellence, beauty, and truth where pessimists see only degradation, vice,
and ugliness. The one hears the nightingale, the other the raven only. To one, the sunsetting
forms a magic picture; to the other, it is but a presage of bad weather tomorrow. Some people
seem to look at nature through a glass of red wine or in a Claude Lorraine mirror; to them
the landscape has ever the bloom of summer or a spring-tide grace. To others, it is always
cloudy, dreary, dull. The desolate ravine, the stony path, the blighted heath--that is all
they can find in a book which should have a chapter for everybody. And the latter are apt to
call the former dreamers, visionaries, fools. They are dubbed in society often flatterers,
people whose "geese are all swans."

But are those, then, the fools who see only the pleasant side? Are they alone the visionaries
who see the best rather than the worst? It is strange that the critics see only weakness in
the "pleasant- spoken," and only truth and safety in those who croak.

The person who sees a bright light in an eye otherwise considered dull, who distrusts the last
scandal, is supposed to be foolish, too easily pleased, and wanting in that wise scepticism
which should be the handmaid of common-sense; and if such a person in telling a story poetizes
the truth, if it is a principle or a tendency to believe the best of everybody, to take everybody
at their highest note, is she any the less canny? Has she necessarily less insight? As there
are always two sides to a shield, why not look at the golden one?

An excess of the organ of hope has created people like Colonel Sellers in the play, who deluded
himself that there were "millions in it," who landed in poverty and wrecked his friends; but
this excess is scarcely a common one. Far more often does discouragement paralyze than does
hope exalt. Those who have sunshine for themselves and to spare are apt to be happy and useful
people; they are in the aggregate the successful people.

But, although good-nature is temperamental, and although some men and women are, by their force
of imagination and charity, forced to poetize the truth, the question remains an open one,
Which is the nearest to truth, a pessimist or an optimist? Truth is a virtue more palpable
and less shadowy than we think; It is not easy to speak the unvarnished, uncorrupted truth
(so the lawyers tell us). The faculty of observation differs, and the faculty of language is
variable. Some people have no intellectual apprehension of the truth, although they morally
believe in it. People who abstractly revere the truth have never been able to tell anything
but falsehoods. To such the power of making a statement either favorable or prejudicial depends
upon the mood of the moment, not upon fact. Therefore a habit of poetizing the truth would
seem to be of either excess the safest. Society becomes sometimes a hot-bed of evil passions--one
person succeeds at the expense of another. How severe is the suffering proceeding from social
neglect and social stabs! It might, much of it, be smoothed away by poetizing the truth ever
so little. Instead of bearing an ill-natured message, suppose we carry an amiable one. Instead
of believing that an insult was intended, suppose a compliment.

"Should he upbraid, I'll own that he prevail, And sing more sweetly than the nightingale! Say
that he frown, I'll own his looks I view Like morning roses newly dipped in dew."

People who are thus calmly serene and amiable through the frowns and smiles, the ups and downs,
of a social career are often called worldly.

Well, let us suppose that they are. Some author has wisely said: "That the world should be
full of worldliness seems as right as that a stream should be full of water or a living body
full of blood." To conquer this world, to get out of it a full, abounding, agreeable life,
is what we are put here for. Else, why such gifts as beauty, talent, health, wit, and a power
of enjoyment be given to us? To be worldly, or worldlings, is supposed to be incurring the
righteous anger of the good. But is it not improperly using a term of implied reproach? For,
although the world may be too much with us, and a worldling may be a being not filled to the
brim with the deeper qualities or the highest aims, still he is a man necessary to the day,
the hour, the sphere which must be supplied with people fitted to its needs. So with a woman
in society. She must be a worldling in the best sense of the word. She must keep up her corner
of the great mantle of the Field of the Cloth of Gold. She must fill the social arena with
her influence; for in society she is a most important factor.

Then, as a "complex overgrowth of wants and fruitions" has covered our world as with a banyan-tree,
we must have something else to keep alive our umbrageous growth of art, refinement, inventions,
luxuries, and delicate sensibilities. We must have wealth.

"Wealth is the golden essence of the outer world,"

and therefore to be respected.

Of course the pessimist sees purse-pride, pompous and outrageous arrogance, a cringing of the
pregnant hinges of the knee, false standards, and a thousand faults in this admission. And
yet the optimist finds the "very rich," with but few exceptions, amiable, generous, and kindly,
often regretting that poorer friends will allow their wealth to bar them off, wishing often
that their opulence need not shut them off from the little dinners, the homely hospitality,
the small gifts, the sincere courtesies of those whose means are moderate, The cheerful people
who are not dismayed by the superior magnificence of a friend are very apt to find that friend
quite as anxious for sympathy and for kindness as are the poor, especially if his wealth has
caused him, almost necessarily, to live upon the superficial and the external in life.

We all know that there is a worldly life, poor in aim and narrow in radius, which is as false
as possible. To live only for this world, with its changing fashions, its imperfect judgments,
its toleration of snobs and of sinners, its forgiveness of ignorance under a high-sounding
name, its exaggeration of the transient and the artificial, would be a poor life indeed. But,
if we can lift ourselves up into the higher comprehension of what a noble thing this world
really is, we may well aspire to be worldlings.

Julius Caesar was a worldling; so was Shakespeare. Erasmus was a worldling. We might increase
the list indefinitely. These men brought the loftiest talents to the use of worldly things.
They showed how great conquest, poetry, thought might become used for the world. They were
full of this world.

To see everything through a poetic vision (the only genuine idealization) is and has been the
gift of the benefactors of our race. B,ranger was of the world, worldly; but can we give him
up? So were the great artists who flooded the world with light--Titian, Tintoretto, Correggio,
Raphael, Rubens, Watteau. These men poetized the truth. Life was a brilliant drama, a splendid
picture, a garden ever fresh and fair;

The optimist carries a lamp through dark, social obstructions. "I would fain bind up many wounds,
if I could be assured that neither by stupidity nor by malice I need make one!" is her motto,
the true optimist.

It is a fine allegory upon the implied power of society that the poet Marvell used when he
said he "would not drink wine with any one to whom he could not trust his life."

Titian painted his women with all their best points visible. There was a careful shadow or
drapery which hid the defects which none of us are without; but defects to the eye of the optimist
make beauty more attractive by contrast; in a portrait they may better be hid perhaps.

To poetize the truth in the science of charity and forgiveness can never be a great sin. If
it is one, the recording angel will probably drop a tear. This tendency to optimism is, we
think, more like that magic wand which the great idealist waved over a troubled sea, or like
those sudden sunsets after a storm, which not only control the wave, but gild the leaden mass
with crimson and unexpected gold, whose brightness may reach some storm-driven sail, giving
it the light of hope, bringing the ship to a well-defined and hospitable shore, and regulating,
with a new attraction, the lately distracted compass. Therefore, we do not hesitate to say
that the philosophy, and the creed, and the manners of the optimist are good for society. However,
his excellence may well be criticised; it may even sometimes take its place amid those excesses
which are catalogued as amid the "deformities of exaggerated virtues." We may be too good,
some of us, in one single direction.

But the rounded and harmonious Greek calm is hard to find. "For repose and serenity of mind,"
says a modern author, "we must go back to the Greek temple and statue, the Greek epic and drama,
the Greek oration and moral treatise; and modern education will never become truly effectual
till it brings more minds into happy contact with the ideal of a balanced, harmonious development
of all the powers of mind, body, conscience, and heart."

And who was a greater optimist than your Athenian? He had a passionate love of nature, a rapt
and infinite adoration of beauty, and he diffused the splendid radiance of his genius in making
life more attractive and the grave less gloomy. Perhaps we of a brighter faith and a more certain
revelation may borrow something from this "heathen" Greek.

CHAPTER LIV. THE MANNERS OF THE SYMPATHETIC.

CHAPTER LV. CERTAIN QUESTIONS ANSWERED.

We are asked by a correspondent as to when a gentleman should wear his hat and when take it
off. A gentleman wears his hat in the street, on a steamboat deck, raising it to a lady acquaintance;
also in a promenade concert-room and picture-gallery. He never wears it in a theatre or opera-house,
and seldom in the parlors of a hotel. The etiquette of raising the hat on the staircases and
in the halls of a hotel as gentlemen pass ladies is much commended. In Europe each man raises
his hat as he passes a bier, or if a hearse carrying a dead body passes him. In this country
men simply raise their hats as a funeral cort,ge passes into a church, or at the grave. If
a gentleman, particularly an elderly one, takes off his hat and stands uncovered in a draughty
place, as the foyer of an opera-house, while talking to ladies, it is proper for one of them
to say, "Pray resume your hat "--a delicate attention deeply prized by a respectful man, who,
perhaps, would not otherwise cover his head.

Again, our young lady friends ask us many questions on the subject of propriety, showing how
anxious they are to do right, but also proving how far they are from apprehending what in Old-World
customs has been always considered propriety. In our new country the relations of men and women
are necessarily simple. The whole business of etiquette is, of course, reduced to each one's
sense of propriety, and the standard must be changed as the circumstances demand. As, for instance,
a lady writes to know if she should thank a gentleman for paying for her on an excursion. Now
this involves a long answer. In Europe no young lady could accept an invitation to go as the
guest of a young gentleman on "an excursion," and allow him to pay for her, without losing
much reputation. She would not in either England or France be received in society again. She
should be invited by the gentleman through her father or mother, and one or both should accompany
an her. Even then it is not customary for gentlemen to invite ladies to go on an excursion.
He could invite the lady's mother to chaperon a theatre party which he had paid for.

Another young lady asks if she could with propriety buy the tickets and take a young gentleman
to the theatre. Of course she could, if her mother or chaperon would go with her; but even
then the mother or chaperon should write the note of invitation.

But in our free country it is, we hear, particularly in the West, allowable for a young lady
and gentleman to go off on, "an excursion" together, the gentleman paying all the expenses.
If that is allowed, then, of course--to answer our correspondent's question she should thank
him. But if we were to answer the young lady's later question, "Would this be considered etiquette?"
we should say, decidedly, No.

Another question which we are perpetually asked is this: How to allow a gentleman a proper
degree of friendly intimacy without allowing him to think himself too much of a favorite. Here
we cannot bring in either etiquette or custom to decide. One very general law would be not
to accept too many attentions, to show a certain reserve in dancing with him or driving with
him. It is always proper for a gentleman to take a young lady out to drive in his dog-cart
with his servant behind, if her parents approve; but if it is done very often, of course it
looks conspicuous, and the lady runs the risk of being considered engaged. And she knows, of
course, whether her looks and words give him reason to think that he is a favorite. She must
decide all that herself.

Another writes to ask us if she should take a gentleman's hat and coat when he calls. Never.
Let him take care of those. Christianity and chivalry, modern and ancient custom, make a man
the servant of women. The old form of salutation used by Sir Walter Raleigh and other courtiers
was always, "Your servant, madam," and it is the prettiest and most admirable way for a man
to address a woman in any language.

Another asks if she should introduce a gentleman who calls to her mother. This, we should say,
would answer itself did not the question re-appear. Of course she should; and her mother should
always sit with her when she is receiving a call from a gentleman.

But if in our lesser fashionable circles the restrictions of etiquette are relaxed, let a young
lady always remember these general principles, that men will like and respect her far better
if she is extremely particular about allowing them to pay for her, if she refuses two invitations
out of three, if she is dignified and reserved rather than if she is the reverse.

At Newport it is now the fashion for young ladies to drive young men out in their pony-phaetons
with a groom behind, or even without a groom; but a gentleman never takes out a lady in his
own carriage without a servant.

Gentlemen and ladies walk together in the daytime unattended, but if they ride on horseback
a groom is always in attendance on the lady. In rural neighborhoods where there are no grooms,
and where a young lady and gentleman go off for a drive unattended, they have thrown Old-World
etiquette out of the window, and must make a new etiquette of their own. Propriety, mutual
respect, and American chivalry have done for women what all the surveillance of Spanish duennas
and of French etiquette has done for the young girl of Europe. If a woman is a worker, an artist,
a student, or an author, she can walk the Quartier Latin of Paris unharmed.

But she has in work an armor of proof. This is not etiquette when she comes into the world
of fashion. She must observe etiquette, as she would do the laws of Prussia or of England,
if she stands on foreign shores.

Perhaps we can illustrate this. Given a pretty young girl who shall arrive on the steamer Germania
after being several years at school in Paris, another who comes in by rail from Kansas, another
from some quiet, remote part of Georgia, and leave them all at the New York Hotel for a winter.
Let us imagine them all introduced at a New York ball to three gentlemen, who shall call on
them the next day. If the girl educated in Paris, sitting by her mamma, hears the others talk
to the young men she will be shocked. The girls who have been brought up far from the centres
of etiquette seem to her to have no modesty, no propriety. They accept invitations from the
young men to go to the theatre alone, to take drives, and perhaps, as we have said, to "go
on an excursion."

To the French girl this seems to be a violation of propriety; but later on she accepts an invitation
to go out on a coach, with perhaps ten or twelve others, and with a very young chaperon. The
party does not return until twelve at night, and as they walk through the corridors to a late
supper the young Western girl meets them, and sees that the young men are already the worse
for wine: she is apt to say, "What a rowdy crowd!" and to think that, after all, etiquette
permits its own sins, in which she is right.

In a general statement it may be as well to say that a severe etiquette would prevent a young
lady from receiving gifts from a young man, except bonbonnieres and bouquets. It is not considered
proper for him to offer her clothing of any sort--as gowns, bonnets, shawls, or shoes--even
if he is engaged to her. She may use her discretion about accepting a camel's-hair shawl from
a man old enough to be her father, but she should never receive jewellery from any one but
a relative or her fianc, just before marriage. The reason for this is obvious. It has been
abused--the privilege which all men desire, that of decking women with finery.

A young lady should not write letters to young men, or send them presents, or take the initiative
in any way. A friendly correspondence is very proper if the mother approves, but even this
has its dangers. Let a young lady always remember that she is to the young man an angel to
reverence until she lessens the distance between them and extinguishes respect.

Young women often write to us as to whether it is proper for them to write letters of condolence
or congratulation to ladies older than themselves. We should say, Yes. The respect of young
girls is always felt gratefully by older ladies. The manners of the present are vastly to be
objected to on account of a lack of respect. The rather bitter Mr. Carlyle wrote satirically
of the manners of young ladies. He even had his fling at their laugh: "Few are able to laugh
what can be called laughing, but only sniff and titter from the throat outward, or at best
produce some whiffling husky cachinnations as if they were laughing through wool. Of none such
comes good." A young lady must not speak too loud or be too boisterous; she must even tone
down her wit, lest she be misunderstood. But she need not be dull, or grumpy, or ill-tempered,
or careless of her manners, particularly to her mother's old friends. She must not talk slang,
or be in any way masculine; if she is, she loses the battle. A young lady is sometimes called
upon to be a hostess if her mother is dead. Here her liberty becomes greater, but she should
always have an aunt or some elderly friend by her side to play chaperon.

A young lady may do any manual labor without losing caste. She may be a good cook, a fine laundress,
a carver of wood, a painter, a sculptor, an embroideress, a writer, a physician, and she will
be eligible, if her manners are good, to the best society anywhere. But if she outrage the
laws of good-breeding in the place where she is, she cannot expect to take her place in society.
Should she be seen at Newport driving two gentlemen in her pony-phaeton, or should she and
another young woman take a gentleman between them and drive down Bellevue Avenue, she would
be tabooed. It would not be a wicked act, but it would not look well; it would not be convenable.
If she dresses "loudly," with peculiar hats and a suspicious complexion, she must take the
consequences. She must be careful (if she is unknown) not to attempt to copy the follies of
well-known fashionable women. What will be forgiven to Mrs. Well Known Uptown will never be
forgiven to Miss Kansas. Society in this respect is very unjust--the world is always unjust--but
that is a part of the truth of etiquette which is to be remembered; it is founded on the accidental
conditions of society, having for its background, however, the eternal principles of kindness,
politeness, and the greatest good of society.

A young lady who is very prominent in society should not make herself too common; she should
not appear in too many charades, private theatricals, tableaux, etc. She should think of the
"violet by the mossy stone." She must, also, at a watering-place remember that every act of
hers is being criticised by a set of lookers-on who are not all friendly, and she must, ere
she allow herself to be too much of a belle, remember to silence envious tongues.

CHAPTER LVI. ENGLISH TABLE MANNERS AND SOCIAL USAGES.

In no respect can American and English etiquette be contrasted more fully than in the matter
of the every-day dinner, which in America finds a lady in a plain silk dress, high-necked and
long-sleeved, but at which the English lady always appears in a semi-grand toilette, with open
Pompadour corsage and elbow sleeves, if not in low-necked, full-dress attire; while her daughters
are uniformly sleeveless, and generally in white dresses, often low-necked in depth of winter.
At dinner all the men are in evening dress, even if there is no one present at the time but
the family.

The dinner is not so good as the ordinary American dinner, except in the matter of fish, which
is universally very fine. The vegetables are few and poor, and the "sweets," as they call dessert,
are very bad. A gooseberry tart is all that is offered to one at an ordinary dinner, although
fine strawberries and a pine are often brought in afterwards. The dinner is always served with
much state, and afterwards the ladies all combine to amuse the guests by their talents. There
is no false shame in England about singing and playing the piano. Even poor performers do their
best, and contribute very much to the pleasure of the company. At the table people do not talk
much, nor do they gesticulate as Americans do. They eat very quietly, and speak in low tones.
No matters of family history or religion or political differences are discussed before the
servants. Talking with the mouth full is considered an unpardonable vulgarity. All small preferences
for any particular dish are kept in the background. No hostess ever apologizes, or appears
to hear or see anything disagreeable. If the omelette souffle is a failure, she does not observe
it; the servant offers and withdraws it, nor is any one disturbed thereby. As soon as one is
helped he must begin to eat, not waiting for any one else. If the viand is too hot or too cold,
or is not what the visitor likes, he pretends to eat it, playing with knife and fork.

No guest ever passes a plate or helps to anything; the servant does all that. Soup is taken
from the side of the spoon noiselessly. Soup and fish are not partaken of a second time. If
there is a joint, and the master carves, it is proper, however, to ask for a second cut. Bread
is passed by the servants, and must be broken, not cut, afterwards. It is considered gauche
to be undecided as to whether you will take clear soup or thick soup; decide quickly. In refusing
wine, simply say, "Thanks;" the servant knows then that you do not take any.

The servants retire after handing the dessert, and a few minutes' free conversation is allowed.
Then the lady of the house gives the signal for rising. Toasts and taking wine with people
are entirely out of fashion; nor do the gentlemen remain long in the dining-room.

At the English dinner-table, from the plainest to the highest, there is etiquette, manner,
fine service, and everything that Englishmen enjoy. The wit, the courtier, the beauty, and
the poet aim at appearing well at dinner. The pleasures of the table, says Savarin, bring neither
enchantment, ecstasy, nor transports, but they gain in duration what they lose in intensity;
they incline us favorably towards all other pleasures--at least help to console us for the
loss of them.

At very few houses, even that of a duke, does one see so elegant a table and such a profusion
of flowers as at every millionaire's table in New York; but one does see superb old family
silver and the most beautiful table-linen even at a very plain abode. The table is almost uniformly
lighted with wax candles. Hot coffee is served immediately after dinner in the drawing-room.
Plum-pudding, a sweet omelet, or a very rich plum-tart is often served in the middle of dinner,
before the game. The salad always comes last, with the cheese. This is utterly unlike our American
etiquette.

Tea is served in English country-houses four or five times a day. It is always brought to your
bedside before rising; it is poured at breakfast and at lunch; it is a necessary of life at
five o'clock; it is drunk just before going to bed. Probably the cold, damp climate has much
to do with this; and the tea is never very strong, but is excellent, being always freshly drawn,
not steeped, and is most refreshing.

Servants make the round of the table in pairs, offering the condiments, the sauces, the vegetables,
and the wines. The common- sense of the English nation breaks out in their dinners. Nothing
is offered out of season. To make too great a display of wealth is considered bourgeois and
vulgar to a degree. A choice but not oversumptuous dinner meets you in the best houses. But
to sit down to the plainest dinners, as we do, in plain clothes, would never be permitted.
Even ladies in deep mourning are expected to make some slight change at dinner.

Iced drinks are never offered in England, nor in truth are they needed.

In England no one speaks of "sherry wine," "port wine;" "champagne wine," he always says "sherry,"
"port," "claret," etc. But in France one always says "vin de Champagne," "vin de Bordeaux,"
etc. It goes to show that what is proper in one country is vulgar in another.

It is still considered proper for the man of the house to know how to carve, and at breakfast
and lunch the gentlemen present always cut the cold beef, the fowl, the pressed veal and the
tongue. At a country-house dinner the lady often helps the soup herself. Even at very quiet
dinners a menu is written out by the hostess and placed at each plate. The ceremony of the
"first lady" being taken in first and allowed to go out first is always observed at even a
family dinner. No one apologizes for any accident, such as overturning a glass of claret, or
dropping a spoon, or even breaking a glass. It is passed over in silence.

No English lady ever reproves her servants at table, nor even before her husband and children.
Her duty at table is to appear serene and unruffled. She puts her guests at their ease by appearing
at ease herself. In this respect English hostesses are far ahead of American ones.

In the matter of public holidays and of their amusements the English people behave very unlike
American people. If there is a week of holidays, as at Whitsuntide, all the laboring classes
go out of town and spend the day in the parks, the woods, or the country. By this we mean shop-girls,
clerks in banks, lawyer's clerks, young artists, and physicians, all, in fact, who make their
bread by the sweat of their brows. As for the privileged classes, they go from London to their
estates, put on plain clothes, and fish or bunt, or the ladies go into the woods to pick wild-flowers.
The real love of nature, which is so honorable a part of the English character, breaks out
in great and small. In America a holiday is a day when people dress in their best, and either
walk the streets of a great city, or else take drives, or go to museums or theatres, or do
something which smacks of civilization. How few put on their plain clothes and stout shoes
and go into the woods! How much better it would be for them if they did!

At Whitsuntide the shop-girls of London--a hard worked class--go down to Epping Forest, or
to Hampton Court, or to Windsor, with their basket of lunch, and everywhere one sees the sign
"Hot Water for Tea," which means that they go into the humble inn and pay a penny for the use
of the teapot and cup and the hot water, bringing their own tea and sugar. The economy which
is a part of every Englishman's religion could well be copied in America. Even a duchess tries
to save money, saying wisely that it is better to give it away in charity than to waste it.

An unpleasant feature of English life is, however, the open palm, every one being willing to
take a fee, from a penny up to a shilling, for the smallest service. The etiquette of giving
has to be learned. A shilling is, however, as good as a guinea for ordinary use; no one but
an American gives more.

The carriage etiquette differs from ours, as the gentleman of the family rides beside his wife,
allowing his daughters to ride backwards. He also smokes in the Park in the company of ladies,
which looks boorish. However, no gentleman sits beside a lady in driving unless he is her husband,
father, son, or brother. Not even an affianced lover is permitted this seat.

It must be confessed that the groups in Hyde Park and in Rotten Row and about the Serpentine
have a solemn look, the people in the carriages rarely chatting, but sitting up in state to
be looked at, the people in chairs gravely staring at the others. None but the people on horseback
seem at their ease; they chat as they ride, and, all faultlessly caparisoned as they are, with
well-groomed horses, and servants behind, they seem gay and jolly. In America it is the equestrian
who always looks preoccupied and solemn, and as if the horse were quite enough to manage. The
footmen are generally powdered and very neatly dressed in livery, in the swell carriages, but
the coachmen are not so highly gotten up as formerly. Occasionally one sees a very grand fat
old coachman in wig and knee- breeches, but Jeames Yellowplush is growing a thing of the past
even in London.

A lady does not walk alone in the Park. She may walk alone to church, or to do her shopping,
but even this is not common. She had better take a hansom, it now being proper for ladies to
go out to dinner alone in full dress in one of these singularly open and exposed-looking carriages.
It is not an uncommon sight to see a lady in a diamond tiara in a London hansom by the blazing
light of a summer sun. Thus what we should shun as a very public thing the reserved English
woman does in crowded London, and regards it as proper, while she smiles if she sees an American
lady alone in a victoria in Hyde Park, and would consider her a very improper person if she
asked a gentleman to drive out with her--as we do in our Park every day of our lives--in an
open carriage. Truly etiquette is a curious and arbitrary thing, and differs in every country.

In France, where they consider English people frightfully gauche, all this etiquette is reversed,
and is very much more like ours in America. A Frenchman always takes off his hat on entering
or leaving a railway carriage if ladies are in it. An Englishman never takes his hat off unless
the Princess of Wales is passing, or he meets an acquaintance. He sits with it on in the House
of Commons, in the reading-room of a hotel, at his club, where it is his privilege to sulk;
but in his own house he is the most charming of hosts. The rudest and almost the most unkind
persons in the world, if you meet them without a letter or an introduction in a public place,
the English become in their own houses the most gentle, lovely, and polite of all people. If
the ladies meet in a friend's parlor, there is none of that snobbish rudeness which is the
fashion in America, where one lady treats another as if she were afraid of contamination, and
will not speak to her. The lady-in-waiting to Queen Victoria, the duchess, is not afraid of
her nobility; her friend's roof is an introduction; she speaks.

There is a great sense of the value of a note. If a lady writes a pretty note expressing thanks
for civilities offered to her, all the family call on her and thank her for her politeness.
It is to be feared that in this latter piece of good-breeding we are behind our English cousins.
The English call immediately after a party, an invitation, or a letter of introduction. An
elegant and easy epistolary style is of great use in England; and indeed a lady is expected
even to write to an artist asking permission to call and see his pictures--a thing rarely thought
of in America.

CHAPTER LVII. AMERICAN AND ENGLISH ETIQUETTE CONTRASTED.

No sooner does the American traveller land in England than are forced upon his consideration
the striking differences in the etiquette of the two countries, the language for common things,
the different system of intercourse between the employee and the employer, the intense respectfulness
of the guard on the railway, the waiter at the hotel, and the porter who shoulders a trunk,
and the Stately "manageress" of the hotel, who greets a traveller as "my lady," and holds out
her hand for a shilling. This respect strikes him forcibly. The American in a similar position
would not show the politeness, but she would disdain the shilling. No American woman likes
to take a "fee," least of all an American landlady. In England there is no such sensitiveness.
Everybody can be feed who does even the most elevated service. The stately gentlemen who show
Windsor Castle expect a shilling. Now as to the language for common things. No American must
ask for an apothecary's shop; he would not be understood. He must inquire for the "chemist's"
if he wants a dose of medicine. Apothecaries existed in Shakespeare's time, as we learn from
"Romeo and Juliet," but they are "gone out" since. The chemist has been born, and very good
chemicals he keeps. As  soon as an American can divest himself of his habit of saying "baggage,"
and remark that he desires his "luggage sent up by the four train," the better for him. And
it is the better for him if he learns the language of the country quickly. Language in England,
in all classes, is a much more elaborate and finished science than with us. Every one, from
the cad to the cabinet minister, speaks his sentences with what seems to us at first a stilted
effort. There is none of the easy drawl, the oblivion of consonants, which mark our daily talk,
It is very beautiful in the speech of women in England, this clear enunciation and the proper
use of words. Even the maid who lights your fire asks your permission to do so in a studied
manner, giving each letter its place. The slang of England is the affectation of the few. The
"general public," as we should say, speak our common language most correctly. At first it sounds
affected and strained, but soon the American ear grows to appreciate it, and finds the pure
well of English undefiled.

The American lady will be sure to be charmed with the manners of the very respectable person
who lets lodgings, and she will be equally sure to be shocked at the extortions of even the
most honest and best-meaning of them. Ice, lights, an extra egg for breakfast, all these common
luxuries, which are given away in America, and considered as necessaries of existence, are
charged for in England, and if a bath is required in the morning in the tub which always stands
near the wash-stand, an extra sixpence is required for that commonplace adjunct of the toilette.
If ladies carry their own wine from the steamer to a lodging-house, and drink it there, or
offer it to their friends, they are charged "corkage." On asking the meaning of this now almost
obsolete relic of barbarism, they are informed that the lodging-house keeper pays a tax of
twenty pounds a year for the privilege of using wine or spirits on the premises, and seven
shillings--equal to nearly two dollars of our money--was charged an invalid lady who opened
one bottle of port and two little bottles of champagne of her own in a lodging-house in Half-moon
Street. As it was left on the sideboard and nearly all drunk up by the waiter, the lady demurred,
but she had no redress. A friend told her afterwards that she should have uncorked her bottles
in her bedroom, and called it medicine.

These abuses, practised principally on Americans, are leading to the far wiser and more generous
plan of hotel living, where, as with us, a man may know how much he is paying a day, and may
lose this disagreeable sense of being perpetually plucked. No doubt to English people, who
know how to cope with the landlady, who are accustomed to dole out their stores very carefully,
who know how to save a sixpence, and will go without a lump of sugar in their tea rather than
pay for it, the lodging-house living has its conveniences. It certainly is quieter and in some
respects more comfortable than a hotel, but it goes against the grain for any one accustomed
to the good breakfasts, the hearty lunch, and the excellent dinners of an American hotel of
the better class, to have to pay for a drink of ice-water, and to be told that the landlady
cannot give him soup and fish on the same day unless her pay is raised. Indeed, it is difficult
to make any positive terms; the "extras" will come in. This has led to the building of gigantic
hotels in London on the American plan, which arise rapidly on all sides. The Grand Hotel, the
Bristol, the First Avenue Hotel, the Midland, the Northwestern, the Langham, and the Royal
are all better places for an American than the lodging-house, and they are very little if any
more expensive. In a lodging-house a lady must have a parlor, but in a hotel she can sit in
the reading-room, or write her letters at one of the half-dozen little tables which she will
find in each of the many waiting-rooms.

London is a very convenient city for the writing and posting of letters. Foreigners send out
their letters of introduction and cards, expecting a reply in a few days, when, lo! the visitor
is announced as being outside. Here, again, London has the advantage of New York. The immediate
attention paid to a letter of introduction might shame our more tardy hospitality. Never in
the course of the history of England has self-respecting Londoner neglected a letter of introduction.
If he is well-to-do, he asks the person who brings the letter to dinner; if he is poor, he
does what he can. He is not ashamed to offer merely the hospitality of a cup of tea if he can
do no more. But he calls, and he sends you tickets for the "Zoo," or he does something to show
his appreciation of the friend who has given the letter. Now in America we are very tardy about
all this, and often, to our shame, take no notice of letters of introduction.

In the matter of dress the American lady finds a complete bouleversement of her own ideas.
Who would not stare, on alighting at the Fifth Avenue Hotel in the hot sunshine of a June evening,
to find ladies trooping in at the public entrance dressed in red and blue and gold, with short
sleeves or no sleeves, and very low corsage, no cloak, no head-covering? And yet at the Grand
Hotel in London this is the nightly custom. These ladies are dressed for theatre or opera,
and they go to dine at a hotel first. No bonnet is allowed at any theatre, so the full dress
(which we should deem very improper at Wallack's) is demanded at every theatre in London. Of
course elderly and quiet ladies can go in high dresses, but they must not wear bonnets. The
laws of the Medes and Persians were not more strictly enforced than is this law by the custodians
of the theatre, who are neatly dressed women ushers with becoming caps. Here, again, is a difference
of custom, as we have no women ushers in America, and in this respect the English fashion is
the prettier. It would be well, if we could introduce the habit of going to the theatre bonnetless,
for our high hats are universally denounced by those who sit behind us.

The appearance of English women now to the stranger in London partakes of a character of loudness,
excepting when on the top of a coach. There they are most modestly and plainly dressed. While
our American women wear coaching dresses of bright orange silks and white satins, pink trimmed
with lace, and so on, the English woman wears a plain colored dress, with a black mantilla
or wrap, and carries a dark parasol. No brighter dress than a fawn-colored foulard appears
on a coach in the great London parade of the Four- in-Hands.

Here the London woman is more sensible than her American cousin. The Americans who now visit
London are apt to be so plain and undemonstrative in dress that they are called shabby. Perhaps
alarmed at the comments once made on their loudness of dress, the American woman has toned
down, and finds herself less gay than she sees is fashionable at the theatre and opera. But
she may be sure of one thing--she should be plainly dressed rather than overdressed.

As for dinner parties, one is asked at eight or half-past eight; no one is introduced, but
every one talks. The conversation is apt to be low-voiced, but very bright and cordial--all
English people unbending at dinner. It is etiquette to leave a card next day after a ball,
and to call on a lady's reception day. For the out-of-door f^tes at Hurlington and Sandhurst
and the race days very brilliant toilettes of short dresses, gay bonnets, and so on, are proper,
and as no one can go to the first two without a special invitation, the people present are
apt to be "swells," and well worth seeing. The coaches which come out to these festivities
have well-dressed women on top, but they usually conceal their gay dresses with a wrap of some
sombre color while driving through London. No one makes the slightest advance towards an acquaintance
or an intimacy in London. All is begun very formally by the presentation of letters, and after
that the invitation must be immediately accepted or declined, and no person can, without offending
his host, withdraw from a lunch or dinner without making a most reasonable excuse. An American
gentleman long resident in London complains of his country-people in this respect.

He says they accept his invitations to dinner, he gets together a most distinguished company
to meet them, and at the last moment they send him word: "So sorry, but have come in tired
from Richmond. Think we won't come. Thank you."

Now where is his dinner party? Three or four angry Londoners, who might have gone to a dozen
different dinners, are sulkily sitting about waiting for these Americans who take a dinner
invitation so lightly.

The London luncheon, which is a very plain meal compared with ours-- indeed, only a family
dinner--is a favorite hospitality as extended to Americans by busy men. Thus Sir John Millais,
whose hours are worth twenty pounds apiece, receives his friends at a plain lunch in his magnificent
house, at a table at which his handsome wife and rosy daughters assist. So with Alma Tadema,
and the literary people whose time is money. Many of the noble people, whose time is not worth
so much, also invite one to lunch, and always the meal is an informal one.

English ladies are very accomplished as a rule, and sometimes come into the drawing-room with
their painting aprons over their gowns. They never look so well as on horseback, where they
have a perfection of outfit and such horses and grooms as our American ladies as yet cannot
approach. The scene at the corner of Rotten Row of a bright afternoon in the Derby week is
unapproachable in any country in the world.

Many American ladies, not knowing the customs of the country, have, with their gentlemen friends,
mounted a coach at the Langham Hotel, and have driven to the Derby, coming home very much shocked
because they were rudely accosted.

Now ladies should never go to the Derby. It is not a "lady" race. It is five hundred thousand
people out on a spree, and no lady is safe there. Ascot, on the contrary, is a lady's race.
But then she should have a box, or else sit on the top of a coach. Such is the etiquette.

It would be better for all Americans, before entering London society, to learn the etiquette
of these things from some resident.

In driving about, the most aristocratic lady can use the most plebeian conveyance. The "four-wheeler"
is the favorite carriage. A servant calls them from the door-step with a whistle. They are
very cheap--one-and-sixpence for two miles, including a call not to exceed fifteen minutes
(the call). The hansom cab with one horse is equally cheap, but not so easy to get in and out
of. Both these vehicles, with trunks on top of them, and a lady within, drive through the Park
side by side with the stately carriages. In this respect London is more democratic than New York.

CHAPTER LVIII. HOW TO TREAT ENGLISH PEOPLE.

The highest lady in the realm, Queen Victoria, is always addressed by the ladies and gentlemen
of her household, and by all members of the aristocracy and gentry, as "Ma'am," not "Madam,"
or "Your Majesty," but simply, "Yes, ma'am," "No, ma'am." All classes not coming within the
category of gentry, such as the lower professional classes, the middle classes, the lower middle
classes, the lower classes (servants), would address her as "Your Majesty," and not as "Ma'am."
The Prince of Wales is addressed as "Sir" by the aristocracy and gentry, and never as "Your
Royal Highness" by either of these classes, but by all other people he is addressed as "Your
Royal Highness."

The other sons of Queen Victoria are addressed as "Sir" by the upper classes, but as "Your
Royal Highness" by the middle and lower classes, and by all persons not coming within the category
of gentry; and by gentry, English people mean not only the landed gentry, but all persons belonging
to the army and navy, the clergy, the bar, the medical and other professions, the aristocracy
of art (Sir Frederick Leighton, the President of the Royal Academy, can always claim a private
audience with the sovereign), the aristocracy of wealth, merchant princes, and the leading
City merchants and bankers. The Princess of Wales and all the princesses of the blood royal
are addressed as "Ma'am" by the aristocracy and gentry, but as "Your Royal Highness" by all
other classes.

A foreign prince is addressed as "Prince" and "Sir" by the aristocracy and gentry, and as "Your
Serene Highness" by all other classes; and a foreign princess would be addressed as "Princess"
by the aristocracy, or "Your Serene Highness" by the lower grades, but never as "Ma'am."

An English duke is addressed as "Duke" by the aristocracy and gentry, and never as "Your Grace"
by the members of either of these classes; but all other classes address him as "Your Grace."
A marquis is sometimes conversationally addressed by the upper classes as "Markis," but generally
as "Lord A--," and a marchioness as "Lady B--;" all other classes would address them as "Marquis"
or "Marchioness." The same remark holds good as to earls, countesses, barons, baronnesses--all
are "Lord B--" or "Lady B--."

But Americans, who are always, if presented at court, entitled to be considered as aristocracy
and gentry, and as such are always received, must observe that English people do not use titles
often even in speaking to a duke. It is only an ignorant person who garnishes his conversation
with these titles. Let the conversation with Lord B flow on without saying "My lord" or "Lord
B--" more frequently than is absolutely necessary. One very ignorant American in London was
laughed at for saying, "That isn't so, lord," to a nobleman. He should have said, "That isn't
so, I think," or, "That isn't so, Lord B--," or "my lord."

The daughters of dukes, marquises, and earls are addressed as "Lady Mary," "Lady Gwendoline,"
etc. This must never be forgotten, and the younger sons of dukes and marquises are called "Lord
John B--," "Lord Randolph Churchill," etc. The wife of the younger son should always be addressed
by both the Christian and surname of her husband by those slightly acquainted with her, and
by her husband's Christian name only by her intimate friends. Thus those who know Lady Randolph
Churchill well address her as "Lady Randolph." The younger sons of earls, viscounts, and barons
bear the courtesy title of "Honorable," as do the female members of the family; but this is
never used colloquially under any circumstances, although always in addressing a letter to them.

Baronets are addressed by their full title and surname, as "Sir Stafford Northcote," etc.,
by persons of the upper classes, and by their titles and Christian names by all lower classes.
Baronets' wives are addressed as "Lady B--"or "Lady C--." They should not be addressed as "Lady
Thomas B--'" that would be to give them the rank of the wife of a younger son of a duke or
marquis, instead of that of a baronet's wife only.

In addressing foreigners of rank colloquially the received rule is to address them by their
individual titles without the addition of the surname to their titles. In case of a prince
being a younger son he is addressed as "Prince Henry," as in the case of Prince Henry of Battenberg.
The sons of the reigning monarchs are addressed as "Your Imperial Highness." A foreign nobleman
is addressed as "Monsieur le Duc," "Monsieur le Comte," "Monsieur le Baron," etc.; but if there
is no prefix of "de," the individual is addressed as "Baron Rothschild," "Count Hohenthal," etc.

While it is proper on the Continent to address an unmarried woman as mademoiselle, without
the surname, in England it would be considered very vulgar. "Miss" must be followed by the
surname. The wives of archbishops, bishops, and deans are simply Mrs. A--, Mrs. B--, etc.,
while the archbishop and bishop are always addressed as "Your Grace" and as "My lord," their
wives deriving no precedency and no title from their husbands' ecclesiastical rank. It is the
same with military personages.

Peeresses invariably address their husbands by their title; thus the Duchess of Sutherland
calls her husband "Sutherland," etc. Baronets' wives call their husbands "Sir John" or "Sir
George," etc.

The order of precedency in England is strictly adhered to, and English matrons declare that
it is the greatest convenience, as it saves them all the trouble of choosing who shall go in
first, etc. For this reason, among others, the "Book of the Peerage" has been called the Englishman's
Bible, it is so often consulted.

But the question of how to treat English people has many another phase than that of mere title,
as we look at it from an American point of view.

When we visit England we take rank with the highest, and can well afford to address the queen
as "Ma'am." In fact, we are expected to do so. A well-bred, well-educated, well-introduced
American has the highest position in the social scale. He may not go in to dinner with a duchess,
but he is generally very well placed. As for a well- bred, handsome woman, there is no end
to the privileges of her position in England, if she observes two or three rules. She should
not effuse too much, nor be too generous of titles, nor should she fail of the necessary courtesy
due always from guest to hostess. She should have herself presented at court by her Minister
or by some distinguished friend, if She wishes to enter fashionable society. Then she has the
privilege of attending any subsequent Drawing-room, and is eligible to invitations to the court
bails and royal concerts, etc.

American women have succeeded wonderfully of late years in all foreign society from their beauty,
their wit, and their originality. From the somewhat perilous admiration of the Prince of Wales
and other Royal Highnesses for American beauties, there has grown up, however, a rather presumptuous
boldness in some women, which has rather speedily brought them into trouble, and therefore
it may be advisable that even a witty and very pretty woman should hold herself in check in
England.

English people are very kind in illness, grief, or in anything which is inevitable, but they
are speedily chilled by any step towards a too sudden intimacy. They resent anything like "pushing"
more than any other people in the world. In no country has intellect, reading, cultivation,
and knowledge such "success" as in England. If a lady, especially, can talk well, she is invited
everywhere. If she can do anything to amuse the company--as to sing well, tell fortunes by
the hand, recite, or play in charades or private theatricals--she is almost sure of the highest
social recognition. She is expected to dress well, and Americans are sure to do this. The excess
of dressing too much is to be discouraged. It is far better to be too plain than too fine in
England, as, indeed, it is everywhere; an overdressed woman is undeniably vulgar in any country.

If we could learn to treat English people as they treat us in the matter of introductions,
it would be a great advance. The English regard a letter of introduction as a sacred institution
and an obligation which cannot be disregarded. If a lady takes a letter to Sir John Bowring,
and he has illness in his family and cannot ask her to dinner, he comes to call on her, he
sends her tickets for every sort of flower show, the museums, the Botanical Garden, and all
the fine things; he sends her his carriage--he evidently has her on his mind. Sir Frederick
Leighton, the most courted, the busiest man in London, is really so kind, so attentive, so
assiduous in his response to letters of introduction that one hesitates to present a letter
for fear of intruding on his industrious and valuable life.

Of course there are disagreeable English people, and there is an animal known as the English
snob, than which there is no Tasmanian devil more disagreeable. Travellers everywhere have
met this variety, and one would think that formerly it must have been more common than it is
now. There are also English families who have a Continental, one might say a cosmopolitan,
reputation for disagreeability, as we have some American families, well known to history, who
have an almost patrician and hereditary claim to the worst manners in the universe. Well-born
bears are known all over the world, but they are in the minority. It is almost a sure sign
of base and ignoble blood to be badly mannered. And if the American visitor treats his English
host half as well as the host treats him, he may feel assured that the entente cordiale will
soon be perfect.

One need not treat the average Englishman either with a too effusive cordiality or with that
half-contemptuous fear of being snubbed which is of all things the most disagreeable. A sort
of "chip on the shoulder" spread-eagleism formerly made a class of Americans unpopular; now
Americans are in favor in England, and are treated most cordially.

CHAPTER LIX. A FOREIGN TABLE D'HOTE, AND CASINO LIFE ABROAD.

Life at a French watering-place differs so essentially from that at our own Saratoga, Sharon,
Richfield, Newport, and Long Branch, that a few items of observation may be indulged in to
show us what an immense improvement we could introduce into our study of amusement by following
the foreign fashions of simplicity in eating and drinking.

The Continental people never eat that heavy early meal which we call breakfast. They take in
their rooms at eight o'clock a cup of coffee and a roll, what they call caf, complet, or they
may prefer tea and oatmeal, the whole thing very simple. Then at Aix-les Rains or Vichy the
people under treatment go to the bath, taking a rest afterwards. All this occupies an hour.
They then rise and dress for the eleven o'clock d,jeuner ... la fourchette, which is a formal
meal served in courses, with red wine instead of coffee or tea. This is all that one has to
do in the eating line until dinner. Imagine what a fine clear day that gives one. How much
uninterrupted time! How much better for the housekeeper in a small boarding-house! And at a
hotel where the long, heavy breakfast, from seven to eleven, keeps the dining-room greasy and
badly ventilated until the tables must be cleared for a one or two o'clock dinner, it is to
contrast order with disorder, and neatness with its reverse.

The foreign breakfast at eleven is a delicious meal, as will be seen by the following bills
of fare: oeufs au beurre noir; saut, printanier (a sort of stew of meat and fresh vegetables);
viande froide panach,e; salade de saison; compote de fruit et pftisserie; fromage, fruit, caf,.

Another breakfast is: oeufs au plat; poulet ... la Godard; c'telettes de mouton grillees; reviere
pommes de terre; flans d'apricot; and so on, with every variety of stewed pigeon, trout from
the lake, delicious preparations of spinach, and always a variety of the cheeses which are
so fresh and so healthful, just brought from the Alpine valleys. The highly flavored Alpine
strawberries are added to this meal. Then all eating is done for the day until the six or seven
o'clock dinner. This gives the visitor a long and desirable day for excursions, which in the
neighborhood of Aix are especially charming, particularly the drive to Chambery, one of the
most quaintly interesting of towns, through the magnificent break in the Alps at whose southern
portal stands La Grande Chartreuse. All this truly healthy disposition of time and of eating
is one reason why a person comes home from a foreign watering-place in so much better trim,
morally, mentally, and physically, than from the unhealthy gorging of our American summer resorts.

At twelve or one begins the music at the Casino, usually a pretty building in a garden. In
this shady park the mammas with their children sit and listen to the strains of the best bands
in Europe. Paris sends her artists from the Chftelet, and the morning finds itself gone and
well into the afternoon before the outside pleasures of the Casino are exhausted. Here, of
course, trip up and down on the light fantastic toe, and in the prettiest costumes of the day,
all the daughters of the earth, with their attendant cavaliers. There are certain aspects of
a foreign watering-place with which we have nothing to do here, such as the gambling and the
overdressing of a certain class, but all is externally most respectable. At four or earlier
every one goes to drive in the voiture de place or the voiture de remise, the latter being
a handsome hired carriage of a superior class. But the voiture de place, with a Savoyard driver,
is good enough. He knows the road; his sturdy horse is accustomed to the hills; he takes one
for three francs an hour--about half what is charged at Saratoga or Sharon or Richfield; he
expects a few cents as pourboire, that is all. The vehicle is a humble sort of victoria, very
easy and safe, and the drive is generally through scenery of the most magnificent description.

Ladies at a foreign watering-place have generally much to amuse them at the shops. Antiquities
of all sorts, especially old china (particularly old Saxe), also old carved furniture from
the well- known chateaux of Savoy, are found at Aix. The prices are so small compared with
what such curiosities would bring in New York that the buyer is tempted to buy what she does
not want, forgetting how much it will cost to get it home. Old lace and bits of embroidery
and stuffs are brought to the door. There is nothing too rococo for the peripatetic vender
in these foreign watering-places.

The dinner is a very good one. Cooked by Italian or French cooks, it may be something of this
sort: potage de riz; lavarets St. Houlade; filets de boeuf Beaumaire (a delicious sauce with
basil mixed in it, a slight taste of aniseed); bouchers ... la reine; chapon roti au cresson;
asperge au branches; glace au chocolat; caf,; or: potage au Cr,cy; turbot aux cfpres; langue
de boeuf; petits pois, lies au beurre; bombe vanille; with fruits, cheese, and cakes, and always
the wine of the country, for which no extra charge is made. These delicious meals cost--the
breakfast four francs (wine included), the dinner ten francs. It would be difficult in our
country to find such cooking anywhere, and for that price simply impossible.

Music in the Casino grounds follows the dinner. The pretty women, by this time in the short,
gay foulards and in the dressy hats in which they will appear later at the Casino ball, are
tripping up and down in the gas-lighted grounds. The scene is often illuminated by fireworks.
At eight and a half the whole motley crew has entered the Casino, and there the most amusing
dancing--valse, galop, and polka --is in vogue. The Pole is known by his violent dancing; "he
strikes and flutters like a cock, he capers in the air, he kicks his heels up to the stars."
There is heartiness in the dancing of the Swedes and Danes, there is mettle in their heels,
but no people caper like the Poles. The Russians and the Americans dance the best. They are
the elegant dancers of the world. French women dance beautifully:

"A fine, sweet earthquake, gently moved By the soft wind of their dispersing silks."

No lady appears at the Casino bareheaded; it is always with hat or bonnet, and she lives in
her bonnet more or less even at the balls.

If a concert or a play is going on in the little theatre, the same people take their places
in boxes or seats, until every face becomes familiar, as one knows one's shipmates. Sometimes
pleasant acquaintances are thus formed. A very free-and-easy system of etiquette permits dancing
between parties who have not been introduced, and the same privilege extends to the asking
of a party of ladies to take an ice. All acquaintance ceases on leaving the Casino, however,
unless the lady chooses to bow to her cavalier.

Sometimes the steward of the Casino gets up a fancy-dress ball under the patronage of some
lady, and then the motley crew appear as historical characters. It is a unique and gay spectacle.
Here in the land of the old masters some very fine representations of the best pictures are
hastily improvised, and almost without any apparent effort the whole ball is gotten up with
spirit and ingenuity. This, too, among people who never met the day before yesterday. There
is a wide range of costume allowed for those who take part in these revelries.

The parquet floor of a foreign Casino is the most perfect thing for good dancing. They understand
laying these floors there better than we do, and the climate does not alter them, as with us.
They are the pleasantest and easiest of all floors to dance upon.

Not the least striking episode to an American eye is the sight of many priests and men in ecclesiastical
garments at these Casinos. The number of priestly robes everywhere strikes the visitor to a
French watering-place most emphatically. The schoolmasters are young priests, and walk about
with their boys, and the old priests are everywhere. A solemn procession crosses the gay scene
occasionally.

Yes, and on the gay visitor at the Casino. These simple and unostentatious funerals are very
impressive. The priests always walk bareheaded through the streets on these occasions, and
on many others. Indeed, the priestly head seems impatient of a hat.

The f^tes of the peasants are things to go and see, and the unalterable differences of rank
are deeply impressed on the American mind. An old peasant woman has brought cheese and milk
into Aix for forty years, and now, in her sixties, she still brings them, and walks eight miles
a day. There is no hope that her daughter will ever join in the gayeties of the Casino, as
in America she might certainly aspire to do. The daughter will be a peasant, as her mother
was, and far happier and more respectable for it, and certainly more picturesque. How many
of the peasant dresses have given an idea to the modiste! And one sees in the fields of Savoy
the high hat with conical crown, with brim either wide or flat, which has now become so fashionable;
also the flat mushroom hat of straw with the natural bunch of corn and red poppy, which has
gone from Fanchon up to the duchess. They both come from the fields.

Of course horse-races, formed after the plan of Longchamps, are inseparable from the amusements
of a French watering-place; and in proportion to the number of guests to be amused; the horses
come down from the various stables. Pigeon-shooting goes on all the time.

It is said that the French have a greater hatred of ennui than any other people in the world.
They do not know what it means. They amuse themselves all the time, and are never at a loss.
The well- bred French women have as much energy and industry as any New England woman, but
they take their amusement more resolutely, never losing music, gayety, and "distraction." Perhaps
what amuses them might not amuse the more sober Saxon, but the delicate embroidery of their
lives, with all that comes thus cheaply to them, certainly makes them a very delightful set.
Their manners are most fascinating, never selfish, never ponderous, never self-conscious, but
always most agreeable. The French woman is sui generis. She may no longer be very young; she
never was very handsome. Every sensation that the human mind can experience she has experienced;
every caprice, whim, and fancy that human imagination can conceive she has gratified. She is
very intelligent; she was born with a perfect taste in dress; and she is--all the novelists
to the contrary notwithstanding--a very good wife, an excellent mother, a charming companion,
a most useful and sensible helpmeet, with a perfect idea of doing her half of the business
of life, and of getting out of her hours of leisure all the amusement she can. At a French
watering-place the French women of the better class are most entirely at home and intensely
agreeable.