ST. NICHOLAS.

VOL. V. JULY, 1878. No. 9.

[Copyright, 1878, by Scribner & Co.]

THE GIRL WHO SAVED THE GENERAL.

BY CHARLES H. WOODMAN.

Far down the Carolina coast lies the lovely island of St. John, where stood, one hundred years
ago, a noble brick-built mansion, with lofty portico and broad piazza. Ancient live-oaks, trembling
aspens, and great sycamores, lifted a bower over it to keep off the sun. Threading their way
through orange-trees and beds of flowers, spacious walks played hide-and-seek around the house,
coming suddenly full upon the river, or running out of sight in the deep woods.

The owner of this place was Robert Gibbes. With his beautiful young wife he kept an open hall,
and drew to its doors many of the great and noble people of the times; for he was wealthy and
cultured, and she had such charming manners that people loved her very presence. The great
house was full at all seasons. Eight children had already come to this good couple, and seven
little adopted cousins were their playmates--the orphan children of Mrs. Fenwick, sister to
Mr. Gibbes. He himself was a cripple, and could not walk. In a chair which ran on wheels he
was drawn daily over the pleasant paths, sometimes by the faithful black servants, sometimes
by the still more devoted children, who tugged at the rope like so many frisky colts. In their
careless joy he forgot his own sufferings, and would laugh heartily when they deserted him
and hid, with shouts, behind the great trunks, until every tree in the park seemed to cry out
"Papa!" and "Uncle Robert!" The loveliness of the spot, and the happiness of its dwellers,
suited well its name of "Peaceful Retreat," by which it was known through all the country.

But in those troublous times it could not always remain "peaceful." In the spring of 1779,
the British took possession of all the sea-board. General Prevost marched up from Savannah
and laid siege to Charleston. The beautiful city was about to fall into the enemy's hands;
all night the men had toiled in the trenches, the women had prayed on their knees in their
chambers, expecting every moment to hear the besieging cannon roar through the darkness. At
daylight the next morning the housetops were thronged with anxious watchers; but as the sun
came gloriously out of the sea, it shone upon deserted fields; not a tent was to be seen. Hearing
that General Lincoln was hastening on with his army, Prevost had struck his tents in the night,
and was retreating rapidly toward Savannah. He crossed the Stone Ferry, and fortified himself
on John's Island, as the island of St. John's was often called.

For weeks now the noise of musketry and heavy guns destroyed the quiet joy at "Peaceful Retreat."
The children, in the midst of play, would hear the dreadful booming, and suddenly grow still
and pale. The eldest daughter, Mary Anna, was a sprightly, courageous girl of thirteen. She
had the care of all the little ones, for her mother's hands were full, in managing the great
estate and caring for her husband. The children never played now in the park, unless Mary was
with them; and when the frightful noise came through the trees, they ran to her as chickens
to a mother's wing.

After a time, the enemy determined to take possession of this beautiful place. A body of British
and Hessians quietly captured the landing one midnight, and, creeping stealthily onward, filled
the park and surrounded the house. At day-break, the inmates found themselves prisoners.

