 My step crept slowly and stealthily
into their dwellings; my voice lowered itself to sadness and monotony; I pressed no hand in
token of companionship; no hand pressed mine, except when wrung with agony, some wretch, whose
burden was more than he could bear restrained me for a few moments of maddened and convulsive
grief, from putting the last finishing stroke to my work, and held me back to gaze yet again
on features which I was about to cover from his sight. It is well that God, in his unsearchable
wisdom, hath made death loathsome to us. It is well that an undefined and instinctive shrinking
within us, makes what we have loved for long years, in a few hours

  "That lifeless thing, the living fear."

It is well that the soul hath scarcely quitted the body ere the work of corruption is begun.
For if, even thus, mortality clings to the remnants of mortality, with 'love stronger than
death;' if, as I have seen it, warm and living lips are pressed to features where the gradually
sinking eye and hollow cheek speak horribly of departed life; what would it be if the winged
soul left its tenement of clay, to be resolved only into a marble death; to remain cold, beautiful,
and imperishable; every day to greet our eyes; every night to be watered with our tears? The
bonds which hold men together would be broken; the future would lose its interest in our minds;
we should remain sinfully mourning the idols of departed love, whose presence forbade oblivion
of their loveliness; and a thin and scattered population would wander through the world as
through the valley of the shadow of death! How often have I been interrupted when about to
nail down a coffin, by the agonized entreaties of some wretch to whom the discoloured clay
bore yet the trace of beauty, and the darkened lid seemed only closed in slumber! How often
have I said, 'Surely that heart will break with its woe!' and yet, in a little while, the bowed
spirit rose again, the eye sparkled, and the lip smiled, because the dead were covered from
their sight; and that which is present to man's senses is destined to affect him far more powerfully
than the dreams of his imagination or memory. How often, too, have I seen the reverse of the
picture I have just drawn; when the pale unconscious corse has lain abandoned in its loveliness,
and grudging hands have scantily dealt out a portion of their superfluity, to obtain the last
rites for one who so lately moved, spoke, smiled, and walked amongst them! And I have felt,
even then, that there were those to whom that neglected being had been far more precious than
heaps of gold, and I have mourned for them who perished among strangers. One horrible scene
has chased another from my mind through a succession of years; and some of those which, perhaps,
deeply affected me at the time, are, by the mercy of Heaven, forgotten. But enough remains
to enable me to give a faint outline of the causes which have changed me from what I was, to
the gloomy joyless being I am at length become. There is one scene indelibly impressed upon
my memory."

A scene of domestic tragedy follows, which is wrought up with great effect:

"I was summoned late at night to the house of a respectable merchant, who had been reduced,
in a great measure, by the wilful extravagance of his only son, from comparative wealth to
ruin and distress. I was met by the widow, on whose worn and weary face the calm of despair
had settled. She spoke to me for a few moments, and begged me to use dispatch and caution in
the exercise of my calling:--'for indeed,' said she, 'I have watched my living son with a sorrow
that has almost made me forget grief for the departed. For five days and five nights I have
watched, and his bloodshot eye has not closed, no, not for a moment, from its horrible task
of gazing on the dead face of the father that cursed him. He sleeps now, if sleep it can be
called, that is rather the torpor of exhaustion; but his rest is taken on that father's death-bed.
Oh! young man, feel for me! Do your task in such a manner, that my wretched boy may not awake
till it is over, and the blessing of the widow be on you for ever!' To this strange prayer
I could only offer a solemn assurance that I would do my utmost to obey her; and with slow
creeping steps we ascended the narrow stairs which led to the chamber of death. It was a dark,
wretched-looking, ill-furnished room, and a drizzling November rain pattered unceasingly at
the latticed window, which was shaken from time to time by the fitful gusts of a moaning wind.
A damp chillness pervaded the atmosphere, and rotted the falling paper from the walls; and,
as I looked towards the hearth, (for there was no grate,) I felt painfully convinced that the
old man had died without the common comforts his situation imperiously demanded. The white-washed
sides of the narrow fire-place were encrusted with a green damp, and the chimney-vent was stuffed
with straw and fragments of old carpet, to prevent the cold wind from whistling through the
aperture. The common expression, 'He has seen better days,' never so forcibly occurred to me
as at that moment. He had seen better days: he had toiled cheerfully through the day, and sat
down to a comfortable evening meal. The wine-cup had gone round; and the voice of laughter
had been heard at his table for many a year, and yet here he had crept to die like a beggar!
I looked at the flock bed, and felt my heart grow sick within me. The corpse of a man, apparently
about sixty, lay stretched upon it, and on his hollow and emaciated features the hand of death
had printed the ravages of many days. The veins had ceased to give even the appearance of life
to the discoloured skin; the eyelids were deep sunken, and the whole countenance was (and none
but those accustomed to gaze on the face of the dead can understand me) utterly expressionless.
But if a sight like this was sickening and horrible, what shall I say of the miserable being
to whom a temporary oblivion was giving strength for renewed agony? He had apparently been
sitting at the foot of the corpse, and, as the torpor of heavy slumber stole over him, had
sunk forward, his hand still retaining the hand of the dead man. His face was hid; but his
figure, and the thick curls of dark hair, bespoke early youth. I judged him at most, to be
two-and-twenty. I began my task of measuring the body, and few can tell the shudder which thrilled
my frame as the carpenter's rule passed those locked hands--the vain effort of the living still
to claim kindred with the dead! It was over, and I stole from the room, cautiously and silently
as I entered. Once, and only once, I turned to gaze at the melancholy group. There lay the
corpse, stiff and unconscious; there sat the son, in an unconsciousness yet more terrible,
since it could not last. There, pale and tearless, stood the wife of him, who, in his dying
hour, cursed her child and his. How little she dreamed of such a scene when her meek lips first
replied to his vows of affection! How little she dreamed of such a scene when she first led
that father to the cradle of his sleeping boy! when they bent together with smiles of affection,
to watch his quiet slumber, and catch the gentle breathing of his parted lips! I had scarcely
reached the landing-place before the wretched woman's hand was laid lightly on my arm to arrest
my progress. Her noiseless step had followed me without my being aware of it. 'How soon will
your work be done?' said she, in a suffocated voice. 'To-morrow I could be here again,' answered
I. 'To-morrow! and what am I to do, if my boy wakes before that time?' and her voice became
louder and hoarse with fear. 'He will go mad, I am sure he will; his brain will not hold against
these horrors. Oh! that God would hear me!--that God would hear me! and let that slumber sit
on his senses till the sight of the father that cursed him is no longer present to us! Heaven
be merciful to me!' and with the last words she clasped her hands convulsively, and gazed upwards.
I had known opiates administered to sufferers whose grief for their bereavement almost amounted
to madness. I mentioned this hesitatingly to the widow, and she eagerly caught at it. 'Yes!
that would do,' exclaimed she; 'that would do, if I could but get him past that horrible moment!
But stay; I dare not leave him alone as he is, even for a little while:--what will become of
me!' I offered to procure the medicine for her, and soon returned with it. I gave it into her
hands, and her vehement expressions of thankfulness wrung my heart. I had attempted to move
the pity of the apothecary at whose shop I obtained the drug, by an account of the scene I
had witnessed, in order to induce him to pay a visit to the house of mourning; but in vain.
To him, who had not witnessed it, it was nothing but a tale of every-day distress. All that
long night I worked at the merchant's coffin, and the dim grey light of the wintry morning
found me still toiling on. Often, during the hours passed thus heavily, that picture of wretchedness
rose before me. Again I saw the leaning and exhausted form of the young man, buried in slumber,
on his father's death-bed: again my carpenter's rule almost touched the clasped hands of the
dead and the living, and a cold shudder mingled with the chill of the dawning day, and froze
my blood."

"As I passed up one of the streets which led to the merchant's lodgings, my head bending under
the weight of the coffin I was carrying, at every step I took, the air seemed to grow more
thick around me, and at length, overcome by weariness, both of body and mind, I stopped, loosed
the straps which steadied my melancholy burden, and placing it in an upright position against
the wall, wiped the dew from my forehead, and (shall I confess it?) the tears from my eyes.
I was endeavouring to combat the depression of my feelings by the reflection that I was the
support and comfort of my poor old mother's life, when my attention was roused by the evident
compassion of a young lady, who, after passing me with a hesitating step, withdrew her arm
from that of her more elderly companion, and pausing for an instant, put a shilling into my
hand, saying, 'You look very weary, my poor man; pray get something to drink with that.' A
more lovely countenance (if by lovely be meant that which engages love) was never moulded by
nature; the sweetness and compassion of her pale face and soft innocent eyes; the kindness
of her gentle voice, made an impression on my memory too strong to be effaced. I saw her once
again! I reached the merchant's lodgings and my knock was answered as on the former occasion,
by the widow herself. She sighed heavily as she saw me, and after one or two attempts to speak,
informed me that her son was awake, but that it was impossible for her to administer the opiate,
as he refused to let the smallest nourishment pass his lips; but that he was quite quiet, indeed
had never spoken since he woke, except to ask her how she felt; and she thought I might proceed
without fear of his interruption. I entered accordingly, followed by a lad, son to the landlady
who kept the lodgings, and with his assistance I proceeded to lift the corpse, and lay it in
the coffin. The widow's son remained motionless, and, as it were, stupified during this operation:
but the moment he saw me prepare the lid of the coffin so as to be screwed down, he started
up with the energy and gestures of a madman. His glazed eyes seemed bursting from their sockets,
and his upper lip, leaving his teeth bare, gave his mouth the appearance of a horrible and
convulsive smile. He seized my arm with his whole strength; and, as I felt his grasp, and saw
him struggling for words, I expected to hear curses and execrations, or the wild howl of an
infuriated madman. I was mistaken. The wail of a sickly child, who dreads its mother's departure,
was the only sound to which I could compare that wretched man's voice. He held me with a force
almost supernatural; but his tongue uttered supplications in a feeble monotonous tone, and
with the most humble and beseeching manner. 'Leave him,' exclaimed he, 'leave him a little
while longer. He will forgive me; I know he will. He spoke that horrible word to rouse my conscience.
But I heard him and came back to him. I would have toiled and bled for him; he knows that well.
Hush! hush! I cannot hear his voice for my mother's sobs; but I know he will forgive me. Oh!
father, do not refuse! I am humble--I am penitent. Father, I have sinned against Heaven and
before thee--father, I have sinned! Oh! mother, he is cursing me again. He is lifting his hand
to curse me--his right hand. Look, mother, look! Save me, O God! my father curses me on his
dying bed! Save me, oh!----' The unfinished word resolved itself into a low hollow groan, and
he fell back insensible. I would have assisted him, but his mother waved me back. 'Better so,
better so,' she repeated hurriedly; 'it is the mercy of God which has caused this--do you do
your duty, and I will do mine,' and she continued to kneel and support the head of her son,
while we fastened and secured down the coffin. At length all was finished, and then and not
till then we carried the wretched youth from the chamber of death, to one as dark, as gloomy,
and as scantily furnished, but having a wood fire burning in the grate, and a bed with ragged
curtains at one end of it. And here, in comparative comfort, the landlady allowed him to be
placed, even though she saw little chance of her lodgers being able to pay for the change.
Into the glass of water held to his parched lips, as he recovered his senses, I poured a sufficient
quantity of the opiate to produce slumber, and had the satisfaction of hearing his mother fervently
thank God, as still half unconscious, he swallowed the draught. I thought he would not have
survived the shock he had received; but I was mistaken. The merchant was buried and forgotten;
the son lived, and we met again in a far, far different scene."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

NOBLES OF JOHANNA.

We had long been aware that the potentates of the Guinea coast not only assume English titles,
but wear under, or in place of, diadems, the cast-off wigs of our Lord Chancellors--but we
were not prepared for what follows in the latitude of the Mozambique Channel, as related by
Captain Basil Hall.

"We proceeded to our guide's house, where he introduced us, not indeed to his wives, for all
these ladies were stowed away behind a screen of mats, but to some of the males of his family,
and, amongst others, to a queer copper-coloured gentleman, who styled himself, in his communications
with us, 'the Duke of Devonshire,' and begged very hard to be allowed the honour of having
our linen to wash. His Grace was a little dumpy fellow, who stooped considerably, wore neither
shoes nor stockings, and exhibited so little of a nose, that when you caught his countenance
in profile, the facial line, as the physiognomists call it, suffered no interruption when drawn
from the brow to the lips. The poor Duke little knew the cause of the laughter which his occupation,
title, and the contrast of looks, excited in those of our party who had seen his grace's noble
namesake in the opposite hemisphere."

"Most of the natives of Johanna, even the negro slaves, talk a little English; but the best
examples of such acquirements were found, where they ought to be, amongst the grandees of the
island. The following is a fair specimen of the conversation of the dukes and earls at the
capital of the Comoros.--'How do you do, sir? Very glad see you. D--n your eyes! Johanna man
like English very much. God d--n! That very good? Eh? Devilish hot, sir! What news? Hope your
ship stay too long while, very. D--n my eye! Very fine day.' After which, in a sort of whisper,
accompanied by a most insinuating smile, his lordship, or his grace, as the rank of the party
might be, would add:--'You want orange? You want goat? Cheap! I got good, very. You send me
you clothes; I wash with my own hand--clean! fine! very! I got every thing, plenty, great,
much! God d--n!' And then, as if to clench the favourable opinion which these eloquent appeals
had made, the speaker was sure to produce a handful of certificates from mates of Indiamen,
masters of Yankee brigs, and middies of men-of-war; some written in solemn earnest, some quizzically,
but all declaring his lordship, the bearer, to be a pretty good washerman, but the sort of
person not to be trusted far out of sight, as he would certainly walk off with your clothes-bag
if he could safely do so."--Autobiography, Second Series.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bed of Leaves.--In some countries the leaves of the beech tree are collected in autumn, before
they have been injured by the frost, and are used instead of feathers for beds; and mattresses
formed of them are said to be preferable to those either of straw or chaff.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pure Style.--Cardinal Bembo was so rigorous with regard to purity of style, that he is said
to have had forty different partitions, through which his writings, as he polished them by
degrees, successively passed; nor did he publish them till they had sustained these forty examinations.
How would the cardinal have acted with the editorship of a daily newspaper.

       *       *       *       *       *

To lie at the Pool of Bethesda is used proverbially in Germany, in speaking of the theological
candidates who are waiting for a benefice.

       *       *       *       *       *

Court Pun.--The witty Marquess de Bièvre was asked by Louis XV. for a pun. "Give me a subject,
sire,'" said B. "Make it on myself," said Louis. "Sire, the king is not a subject," was the
pleasant reply.

       *       *       *       *       *

History.--The first page of Thucydides is, in my opinion, the commencement of real history.
All preceding narrations are so intermixed with fable, that philosophers ought to abandon them
in a great measure, to the embellishment of the poet and orator.--Hume.

       *       *       *       *       *

Old Squibs.--Richard Bentley and Charles Boyle (Earl of Orrery,) had a warm dispute relative
to the genuineness of the Greek Epistles of Phalaris, an edition of which was published by
the latter. Bentley was victorious, though he was kept in hot water with the critics and wits
of the age. Dr. Garth assailed him thus:

  So diamonds owe a lustre to their foil,
  And to a Bentley 'tis we owe a Boyle.

Conyers Middleton was a sad thorn in Bentley's side, from the latter having called the former,
when a young student in the university, fiddling Conyers, because he played on the violin.
A punning caricature represented B. about to be thrust into the brazen bull of Phalaris, and
exclaiming, "I had rather be roasted than Boyled."

       *       *       *       *       *

