"It happens that fortunately the State has had assistance in this case. The State of Washington,
thru its county commissioners, requested the assistance in this case of Mr. Cooley, whom you
have all grown to know, a man who formerly for four years was prosecuting attorney of Snohomish
County, and who since that time has been associated as assistant counsel in practically all
the criminal prosecutions of Snohomish County that have required assistance.

"And in addition to this the State has been fortunate in having, at the request of the county
commissioners, the assistance of Mr. Veitch, a young man it is true, but one who thru years
of service in the district attorney's office in Los Angeles County had experience in criminal
trials, and especially because of his connection with what are known as the conspiracy murder
trials in Los Angeles County, and also in assisting the federal prosecution at Indianapolis.
It has been necessary in this kind of a case for the State to have assistance.

"Now I told you my friends that I came here as prosecuting attorney of Snohomish County. I
am also a deputy prosecuting attorney of King County under Mr. Lundin. After I was appointed
I was very unpleasantly surprised by one statement. A little phrase, 'without pay,' so that
I don't know whether really I am a deputy prosecuting attorney or not, because I found that
in public office a man always likes to see the warrant come at the end of the month!

"You are a jury in this case from King County because the defendant and the other defendants
filed an affidavit to the effect that they didn't expect that a jury selected in Snohomish
County would give the defendant a fair trial. The State is happy in your selection and knows
that you will follow the dictates of your conscience and is likewise confident that you cannot
help but believe that Jefferson Beard was killed by someone shooting from the Verona, and that
Thomas H. Tracy, alias George Martin, incited, aided and encouraged in that shooting.

"Now, the witnesses on the dock are men of Everett, men of family, men who are laborers, but
with families; men who are clerks, with interests in Snohomish County; men who hold some important
positions, as lawyers; people with families, people who by residence have established reputation
for truth and veracity; men who have established themselves, have made themselves successful,
sometimes in merely that they have established a small home, or who have lived in Everett and
have made friends and acquaintances. That is the class of men that were on the dock.

"There are only two classes of people who know anything about the shooting. The people on the
dock are one set, and the people on the boat are the other.

"The people on the boat, with but one or two exceptions, are men who have established no reputation
for truth and veracity, have been successful in the world in no way, even from the standpoint
of stable friends, living here and there, unfortunately; perchance, with some of them it is
due to unfortunate circumstances and environments, and they have been unlucky, but still they
haven't established stable friends in any community.

"Then there are the three boatmen on the boat--and those three men, unprejudiced, unbiased,
not deputies and not Commercial Club members, but merely laborers, they know where the first
shot came from, and they tell, and their testimony absolutely and entirely contradicts the
testimony of the defense in this case from start to finish.

"And when you look at that red face and red hair and that honest expression of big Jack Hogan
John Hogan here, and his honest blue eyes, it doesn't seem to me that you can have any more
doubt than I have that Jack Hogan saw Tracy.

"Now, these men that come on the stand all confess they had a common design. Their common design
they say, was that about two o'clock in Everett they were going to speak at the corner of Wetmore
and Hewitt Avenues, that is their common design.

"The court tells you that the purpose that they admit was unlawful, so Tracy, by the testimony
adduced in his favor, was one of the men having a common design for an unlawful purpose. Tracy,
regardless of his location, regardless of whether he fired or not, is guilty.

"The sheriff and his deputies could have been guilty of everything claimed against them previous
to this and the defendant still be guilty of helping and encouraging someone else to unjustifiably
kill Jefferson Beard.

"Under the Court's instructions there were acts done at Beverly Park that were unlawful. There
is no question about that. Instead of this being a weakness on the State's part, it seems to
me that it is an added strength. Because the I. W. W. used Beverly Park for what purpose? They
jumped on it with desire, deeming it a fortunate circumstance because they wanted to inflame
men to invade Everett. They jumped on this, the men at the head of the conspiracy, they jumped
on Beverly Park because they could use it to inflame their members. How do we know? Their own
statements! Their telegrams! 'Advertise conditions and send volunteers.' Volunteers for what?
Volunteers for what? When a man represents things and so helps to make men mad he wants these
men up there as volunteers for retaliation. And the Court has instructed you that if these
men went up there with the purpose of retaliating, they are guilty. Tracy having been one of
a common design makes it central, vital, in good conscience as citizens, that you return your
verdict asked by the state.

"Any time a murder is committed it is important that prosecution be had and conviction secured.
That is always vital from the standpoint of protection to society. The police, the sheriff's
office, and the officials of all cities and states of the United States sometimes forget themselves,
I take it, sometimes do things they shouldn't do, sometimes do things they should be censured
for, but the fact that they had is no reason that murder is to be excused or justified, because
if you did, we would have no society. That is true in an ordinary murder case. That is overwhelmingly
true in this case.

"The I. W. W. is an organization that realizes the great truth in combating government. They
have stumbled upon an overwhelmingly successful instrument in fighting society. What is that?
To commit a violation of the law in numbers, to violate the law by so many people that only
a few can be prosecuted and even if they are convicted, the great majority go scott free. They
built better than they knew when they stumbled upon the great secret that the violation of
a law in great numbers would protect practically all of the violators. And this trial itself
is proof of that.

"Snohomish County can ill afford the expense of this one trial; can ill afford the expense
of two or three trials after this; would be overwhelmed with debt to convict all the men who
are in this conspiracy, if there were a conspiracy it can't do it; most of them are safe from
prosecution and they know it; and the only protection that Snohomish County has, and King County
has, and the State of Washington has, and the United States has, is that when something happens
like this a conviction be secured against a man who is guilty, not because you are convicting
all, because you can't, you are helpless--but because that at least is the voice of warning
to the men that if you lead an attempt you may be the one of the great number that will be
caught. It is important from the standpoint of citizens of the State of Washington to establish
the principle that crimes cannot be committed by numbers with impunity, that while it is fairly
safe, it won't be absolutely safe. We have no protection. That is the vital part of this case.
We have no protection.

"If this case were just that of murder committed by one man acting alone, the importance of
your verdict would be of small significance, compared with the importance of your verdict in
a criminal case where the members are part of an organization. True, the society has no doubt
a great many aims that are desirable to improve the welfare of the workingman. But it has one
aim, one vital aim, in its platform to bring upon it the condemnation of thinking, sober men
and women residing permanently in the State of Washington, and that is sabotage.

"We are not claiming that the killing of Jefferson Beard was in the exercise of sabotage. We
are saying that sabotage along with the conscious withdrawal of efficiency, sabotage along
with the destruction of property, may also mean crime.

"The I. W. W. members did not come to Everett for the purpose of employment; they were men
who were wanderers upon the face of the earth, who desired to establish themselves nowhere,
and none of them, as far as this witness stand is concerned, expected to work in Everett or
to put sabotage in effect in Everett by working slow. The only way they could use sabotage
in Everett was by the destruction of property. The mayor became alarmed, and the sheriff, after
their repeated threats in their papers. But whether you believe sabotage to be good, bad, or
indifferent, really is not vital in this case except as a circumstance.

"Now, the Wanderer. The Wanderer did not happen the way they said it happened. The sheriff
did shoot after they refused to stop. The sheriff did hit some of them with the butt of his
gun. The sheriff brought them into Everett because they constituted an unlawful assemblage.
The sheriff did the only thing he could do. He filed charges against them and they were arraigned
in court. Twenty-three men cannot be tried quickly when each one demands a separate trial by
jury. Twenty-three trials would stop the judicial machinery for three months. They could not
be tried and so the sheriff turned them loose. Maybe he did hit them harder than he should
have. Policemen do that! Sheriff do that! Lots of time they hit men when it is not necessary.
Hit them too hard, sometimes. They don't always understand exactly what they are supposed to
do. But the I. W. W. exaggerated the matter and used it to incite retaliation on the fifth.
So the Beverly Park incident, and all other incidents, if true to the last syllable of the
defense testimony, merely in this case extenuated the motive on November 5th.

"Now then, why did the State select Tracy? The State's evidence was to the effect that Tracy
was not only a member of the conspiracy, but was firing. Several State's witnesses recognized
Tracy. There was another reason. What was that? Some of these men, some of these boys, flitting
here and there from job to job, with never more than a dollar or two in their pockets, were
inflamed intentionally by people who misrepresented conditions. They did not have any right
to be inflamed; they did not have any right to go to Everett and they are guilty of murder
if they went up there to retaliate for any wrong, actual or conceived. But the State has preferred
to put on first a man who was in the forefront of the conspiracy; the man that appeared to
be an important cog of that conspiracy, and that man is Tracy.

"Tracy knew that a great many people of Everett were alarmed and disturbed. Tracy knew that
the I. W. W. did not want anything in Everett, had no interests there, no friends there except
as they were disturbing conditions. Tracy knew the purposes and Tracy went back to Seattle
so he could lead this excursion to Everett. Tracy is a man of determination. He knew the situation
and he was prominent enough to be selected by the organization as a stationary delegate. And
if any man knew what they intended to do in Everett, it undoubtedly was Tracy. So, regardless
of whether he fired or not, Tracy was one of the men who were on the inside. Tracy is a part
of the conspiracy that happened. But no man, my friends, on that boat, that went up there with
a common design to break the ordinance has been sinned against because he is in jail.

"Now, my friends, you want in good faith to follow the instructions of the court. It seems
to me that the only question you have to decide is the one the court told you to decide--Was
Beard killed unlawfully by a shot from the boat, and did Tracy aid, encourage or incite that
killing?

"The murder of Jefferson Beard was a premeditated murder. Following the instructions of the
court, separating the wheat from the chaff, and deciding that one question, we of the State
are confident that you as jurors and good citizens, as honest, sincere and conscientious citizens,
will protect Snohomish County--we believe that your verdict will say 'We are convinced, beyond
a reasonable doubt, that Tracy is guilty, and, being so convinced, we are going to protect
Snohomish County as we would our own.' I thank you!"

Vanderveer handled the case from two different viewpoints--that of a first degree murder trial
and also as a section of the class struggle. His address was a masterly array of invincible
logic and satire. Omitting his readings from the transcript of evidence, his speech was substantially
as follows:

"This cause is, as the counsel for the state has told you, one of momentous importance not
only to the defendant but to a class--a large class of people of whom today he stands merely
as an unfortunate single member, fighting their battle.

"We do not ask in this case for mercy, we do not ask for sympathy, but it is essential, absolutely
essential that we should have cold, stern justice; justice for the defendant, justice for those
who have oppressed him, those who have denied him his rights. We hope this case is the beginning
of a line of prosecution which will see that justice is done in the Everett situation.

"It is not the defense who outlined the issues in this case, it was the State who determined
that. They have chosen their fighting ground, and we had to meet them on that battle. In the
beginning of this case the State, thru Mr. Black, told you that it would prove a conspiracy
of very formidable proportions, a conspiracy in the first place to commit acts of violence
and to incite acts of violence, a conspiracy to commit arson, a conspiracy to overrun all law
and order in Everett and bring on a condition of chaos. The claim was a very formidable one.
The evidence has been very silly. The State ought to apologize, in common decency, for ever
having suggested these things.

"What is the evidence about the fires? The fire marshall's report, made by a man who would
naturally try to enlarge the performance of his duties and impress upon the public the manner
in which he discharged them, reports only four fires of incendiary origin for the entire year.
Every one of these were discovered before they did five cents worth of damage. Who had notice
of them? Was it the I. W. W. who set them or was it Reese or some paid employe of the Pinkerton
Agency? Can you conceive that an organization embracing as many members as this does, bent
upon the destruction of Everett, could not set one fire at least that would do some damage.
It is nothing but a hoax!

"As to force and violence, who did they put on to prove it? Young Howard Hathaway, a mere boy,
whose father represents some mill companies in Everett. Then Sheriff McRae, and McRae couldn't
tell you one thing that he heard at the street meetings. Then they put on Ed Hawes, the big
brute that out at Beverly called the little boy a coward, a baby, because he wouldn't stand
there and be slugged with guns and clubs. And what did Hawes say? That he looked up sabotage
in the International Dictionary! And you can search that book until you are black in the face
and you won't find a word in there about sabotage. Why, if sabotage is such a terrible thing,
did Hawes, having heard all about it at the street meeting, have to go home to look it up at all?

"At these meetings there was not one thing said that could invite criticism, there was not
one thing said that could justify or invite censure or abuse; there was not one disorderly
thing done but was done by the officers of the law themselves, and they went in recklessly,
without excuse, without right, they clubbed Henig, they clubbed Carr, a former member of the
council, and they roughed women around and knocked them down. Why? Because these people were
mill owners, their hirelings and their representatives, who had been instructed in the propaganda
of the open shop by employes, aides and emissaries of the Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association.

"A lot of people went to the jail one night, a thousand, maybe. They hooted, they cat-called,
and they hissed. Is it any wonder they did? Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you there
is no surer verdict on earth than the verdict of a crowd; and the verdict of that crowd condemned
what the deputies had done.

"Finally they say there was a conspiracy on the 5th of November to go to Everett and to hold
their meeting at all hazard, to brook no opposition, to ride rough-shod over it, to oppose
everyone and anything that stood in the way of accomplishing their purpose. I ask you to think
just for a moment how foreign that is to everything you know about the I. W. W. and their operations
and behavior in Everett. Not one witness for the state could tell you an incident where one
of them resisted arrest, could tell you an occasion where one of them had advocated violence,
could tell you one occasion where any one of them had committed any acts of violence.

"These people wrote to Governor Lister calling his attention to the violations of the law on
the part of the officers of Everett; they wrote to Mayor Merrill, enclosing a copy of that
letter and calling on him to restore the order that had been violated by the officers of the
law; they scattered handbills all over Everett, among its best homes and in its business streets,
calling upon the good citizens to come to their meeting on November 5th at Wetmore and Hewitt,
to come and help maintain your own and our constitutional privileges; they mailed to the citizens
of Everett on October 30th, seven or eight hundred copies of a little pamphlet calling upon
them to intervene and stop the brutality of officers of the law; they questioned Governor Lister
at a public meeting and again called his attention to the conditions in Everett; they called
in the reporters, called the newspapers and notified the editors that they were going to Everett
and asked them to have representatives present: Are these the acts of conspirators?

"You know how that meeting was called and why it was called. You know it from ministers of
the gospel, you know it from the lips of those whom you cannot help but believe. And it was
called for Sunday, the day when people ordinarily resent disorders of the kind that had occurred
there. It was called for the daytime, when ordinarily abuse and violence are not attempted.
And this big crowd went up there on this fine Sunday afternoon because in number there is strength
and in numbers there is protection against brutality.

