A short time after the death of Maupertuis,[2] M. Gleditsch being obliged to traverse the hall
in which the Academy held its sittings, having some arrangements to make in the cabinet of
natural history, which was under his charge, and being willing to complete them on the Thursday
before the meeting, he perceived, on entering the hall, the apparition of M. de Maupertuis,
upright and stationary, in the first angle on his left hand, having his eyes fixed on him.
This was about three o'clock, afternoon. The professor of natural philosophy was too well acquainted
with physical science to suppose that his late president, who had died at Bâle, in the family
of Messrs. Bernoullie, could have found his way back to Berlin in person. He regarded the apparition
in no other light than as a phantom produced by some derangement of his own proper organs.
M. Gleditsch went to his own business, without stopping longer than to ascertain exactly the
appearance of that object. But he related the vision to his brethren, and assured them that
it was as defined and perfect as the actual person of Maupertuis could have presented. When
it is recollected that Maupertuis died at a distance from Berlin, once the scene of his triumphs--overwhelmed
by the petulant ridicule of Voltaire, and out of favour with Frederick, with whom to be ridiculous
was to be worthless--we can hardly wonder at the imagination even of a man of physical science
calling up his Eidolon in the hall of his former greatness.

[Footnote 2: Long the president of the Berlin Academy, and much favoured by Frederick II.,
till he was overwhelmed by the ridicule of Voltaire. He retired, in a species of disgrace,
to his native country of Switzerland, and died there shortly afterwards.]

The sober-minded professor did not, however, push his investigation to the point to which it
was carried by a gallant soldier, from whose mouth a particular friend of the author received
the following circumstances of a similar story.

Captain C---- was a native of Britain, but bred in the Irish Brigade. He was a man of the most
dauntless courage, which he displayed in some uncommonly desperate adventures during the first
years of the French Revolution, being repeatedly employed by the royal family in very dangerous
commissions. After the King's death he came over to England, and it was then the following
circumstance took place.

Captain C---- was a Catholic, and, in his hour of adversity at least, sincerely attached to
the duties of his religion. His confessor was a clergyman who was residing as chaplain to a
man of rank in the west of England, about four miles from the place where Captain C---- lived.
On riding over one morning to see this gentleman, his penitent had the misfortune to find him
very ill from a dangerous complaint. He retired in great distress and apprehension of his friend's
life, and the feeling brought back upon him many other painful and disagreeable recollections.
These occupied him till the hour of retiring to bed, when, to his great astonishment, he saw
in the room the figure of the absent confessor. He addressed it, but received no answer--the
eyes alone were impressed by the appearance. Determined to push the matter to the end, Captain
C---- advanced on the phantom, which appeared to retreat gradually before him. In this manner
he followed it round the bed, when it seemed to sink down on an elbow-chair, and remain there
in a sitting posture. To ascertain positively the nature of the apparition, the soldier himself
sate down on the same chair, ascertaining thus, beyond question, that the whole was illusion;
yet he owned that, had his friend died about the same time, he would not well have known what
name to give to his vision. But as the confessor recovered, and, in Dr. Johnson's phrase, "nothing
came of it," the incident was only remarkable as showing that men of the strongest nerves are
not exempted from such delusions.

Another illusion of the same nature we have the best reason for vouching as a fact, though,
for certain reasons, we do not give the names of the parties. Not long after the death of a
late illustrious poet, who had filled, while living, a great station in the eye of the public,
a literary friend, to whom the deceased had been well known, was engaged, during the darkening
twilight of an autumn evening, in perusing one of the publications which professed to detail
the habits and opinions of the distinguished individual who was now no more. As the reader
had enjoyed the intimacy of the deceased to a considerable degree, he was deeply interested
in the publication, which contained some particulars relating to himself and other friends.
A visitor was sitting in the apartment, who was also engaged in reading. Their sitting-room
opened into an entrance-hall, rather fantastically fitted up with articles of armour, skins
of wild animals, and the like. It was when laying down his book, and passing into this hall,
through which the moon was beginning to shine, that the individual of whom I speak saw, right
before him, and in a standing posture, the exact representation of his departed friend, whose
recollection had been so strongly brought to his imagination. He stopped for a single moment,
so as to notice the wonderful accuracy with which fancy had impressed upon the bodily eye the
peculiarities of dress and posture of the illustrious poet. Sensible, however, of the delusion,
he felt no sentiment save that of wonder at the extraordinary accuracy of the resemblance,
and stepped onwards towards the figure, which resolved itself, as he approached, into the various
materials of which it was composed. These were merely a screen, occupied by great-coats, shawls,
plaids, and such other articles as usually are found in a country entrance-hall. The spectator
returned to the spot from which he had seen the illusion, and endeavoured, with all his power,
to recall the image which had been so singularly vivid. But this was beyond his capacity; and
the person who had witnessed the apparition, or, more properly, whose excited state had been
the means of raising it, had only to return into the apartment, and tell his young friend under
what a striking hallucination he had for a moment laboured.

There is every reason to believe that instances of this kind are frequent among persons of
a certain temperament, and when such occur in an early period of society, they are almost certain
to be considered as real supernatural appearances. They differ from those of Nicolai, and others
formerly noticed, as being of short duration, and constituting no habitual or constitutional
derangement of the system. The apparition of Maupertuis to Monsieur Gleditsch, that of the
Catholic clergyman to Captain C----, that of a late poet to his friend, are of the latter character.
They bear to the former the analogy, as we may say, which a sudden and temporary fever-fit
has to a serious feverish illness. But, even for this very reason, it is more difficult to
bring such momentary impressions back to their real sphere of optical illusions, since they
accord much better with our idea of glimpses of the future world than those in which the vision
is continued or repeated for hours, days, and months, affording opportunities of discovering,
from other circumstances, that the symptom originates in deranged health.

Before concluding these observations upon the deceptions of the senses, we must remark that
the eye is the organ most essential to the purpose of realizing to our mind the appearance
of external objects, and that when the visual organ becomes depraved for a greater or less
time, and to a farther or more limited extent, its misrepresentation of the objects of sight
is peculiarly apt to terminate in such hallucinations as those we have been detailing. Yet
the other senses or organs, in their turn, and to the extent of their power, are as ready,
in their various departments, as the sight itself, to retain false or doubtful impressions,
which mislead, instead of informing, the party to whom they are addressed.

Thus, in regard to the ear, the next organ in importance to the eye, we are repeatedly deceived
by such sounds as are imperfectly gathered up and erroneously apprehended. From the false impressions
received from this organ also arise consequences similar to those derived from erroneous reports
made by the organs of sight. A whole class of superstitious observances arise, and are grounded
upon inaccurate and imperfect hearing. To the excited and imperfect state of the ear we owe
the existence of what Milton sublimely calls--

The airy tongues that syllable men's names, On shores, in desert sands, and wildernesses.

These also appear such natural causes of alarm, that we do not sympathize more readily with
Robinson Crusoe's apprehensions when he witnesses the print of the savage's foot in the sand,
than in those which arise from his being waked from sleep by some one calling his name in the
solitary island, where there existed no man but the shipwrecked mariner himself. Amidst the
train of superstitions deduced from the imperfections of the ear, we may quote that visionary
summons which the natives of the Hebrides acknowledged as one sure sign of approaching fate.
The voice of some absent, or probably some deceased, relative was, in such cases, heard as
repeating the party's name. Sometimes the aerial summoner intimated his own death, and at others
it was no uncommon circumstance that the person who fancied himself so called, died in consequence;--for
the same reason that the negro pines to death who is laid under the ban of an Obi woman, or
the Cambro-Briton, whose name is put into the famous cursing well, with the usual ceremonies,
devoting him to the infernal gods, wastes away and dies, as one doomed to do so. It may be
remarked also, that Dr. Johnson retained a deep impression that, while he was opening the door
of his college chambers, he heard the voice of his mother, then at many miles' distance, call
him by his name; and it appears he was rather disappointed that no event of consequence followed
a summons sounding so decidedly supernatural. It is unnecessary to dwell on this sort of auricular
deception, of which most men's recollection will supply instances. The following may he stated
as one serving to show by what slender accidents the human ear may be imposed upon. The author
was walking, about two years since, in a wild and solitary scene with a young friend, who laboured
under the infirmity of a severe deafness, when he heard what he conceived to be the cry of
a distant pack of hounds, sounding intermittedly. As the season was summer, this, on a moment's
reflection, satisfied the hearer that it could not be the clamour of an actual chase, and yet
his ears repeatedly brought back the supposed cry. He called upon his own dogs, of which two
or three were with the walking party. They came in quietly, and obviously had no accession
to the sounds which had caught the author's attention, so that he could not help saying to
his companion, "I am doubly sorry for your infirmity at this moment, for I could otherwise
have let you hear the cry of the Wild Huntsman." As the young gentleman used a hearing tube,
he turned when spoken to, and, in doing so, the cause of the phenomenon became apparent. The
supposed distant sound was in fact a nigh one, being the singing of the wind in the instrument
which the young gentleman was obliged to use, but which, from various circumstances, had never
occurred to his elder friend as likely to produce the sounds he had heard.

It is scarce necessary to add, that the highly imaginative superstition of the Wild Huntsman
in Germany seems to have had its origin in strong fancy, operating upon the auricular deceptions,
respecting the numerous sounds likely to occur in the dark recesses of pathless forests. The
same clew may be found to the kindred Scottish belief, so finely embodied by the nameless author
of "Albania:"--

"There, since of old the haughty Thanes of Ross Were wont, with clans and ready vassals thronged,
To wake the bounding stag, or guilty wolf; There oft is heard at midnight or at noon, Beginning
faint, but rising still more loud, And louder, voice of hunters, and of hounds, And horns hoarse-winded,
blowing far and keen. Forthwith the hubbub multiplies, the air Labours with louder shouts and
rifer din Of close pursuit, the broken cry of deer Mangled by throttling dogs, the shouts of
men, And hoofs, thick-beating on the hollow hill: Sudden the grazing heifer in the vale Starts
at the tumult, and the herdsman's ears Tingle with inward dread. Aghast he eyes The upland
ridge, and every mountain round, But not one trace of living wight discerns, Nor knows, o'erawed
and trembling as he stands, To what or whom he owes his idle fear-- To ghost, to witch, to
fairy, or to fiend, But wonders, and no end of wondering finds."[3]

It must also be remembered, that to the auricular deceptions practised by the means of ventriloquism
or otherwise, may be traced many of the most successful impostures which credulity has received
as supernatural communications.

[Footnote 3: The poem of "Albania" is, in its original folio edition, so extremely scarce that
I have only seen a copy belonging to the amiable and ingenious Dr. Beattie, besides the one
which I myself possess, printed in the earlier part of last century. It was reprinted by my
late friend Dr. Leyden in a small volume entitled "Scottish Descriptive Poems." "Albania" contains
the above, and many other poetical passages of the highest merit.]

The sense of touch seems less liable to perversion than either that of sight or smell, nor
are there many cases in which it can become accessary to such false intelligence as the eye
and ear, collecting their objects from a greater distance and by less accurate enquiry, are
but too ready to convey. Yet there is one circumstance in which the sense of touch as well
as others is very apt to betray its possessor into inaccuracy, in respect to the circumstances
which it impresses on its owner. The case occurs during sleep, when the dreamer touches with
his hand some other part of his own person. He is clearly, in this case, both the actor and
patient, both the proprietor of the member touching, and of that which is touched; while, to
increase the complication, the hand is both toucher of the limb on which it rests, and receives
an impression of touch from it; and the same is the case with the limb, which at one and the
same time receives an impression from the hand, and conveys to the mind a report respecting
the size, substance, and the like, of the member touching. Now, as during sleep the patient
is unconscious that both limbs are his own identical property, his mind is apt to be much disturbed
by the complication of sensations arising from two parts of his person being at once acted
upon, and from their reciprocal action; and false impressions are thus received, which, accurately
enquired into, would afford a clew to many puzzling phenomena in the theory of dreams. This
peculiarity of the organ of touch, as also that it is confined to no particular organ, but
is diffused over the whole person of the man, is noticed by Lucretius:--

"Ut si forte manu, quam vis jam corporis, ipse
 Tute tibi partem ferias, reque experiare."

A remarkable instance of such an illusion was told me by a late nobleman. He had fallen asleep,
with some uneasy feelings arising from indigestion. They operated in their usual course of
visionary terrors. At length they were all summed up in the apprehension that the phantom of
a dead man held the sleeper by the wrist, and endeavoured to drag him out of bed. He awaked
in horror, and still felt the cold dead grasp of a corpse's hand on his right wrist. It was
a minute before he discovered that his own left hand was in a state of numbness, and with it
he had accidentally encircled his right arm.

The taste and the smell, like the touch, convey more direct intelligence than the eye and the
ear, and are less likely than those senses to aid in misleading the imagination. We have seen
the palate, in the case of the porridge-fed lunatic, enter its protest against the acquiescence
of eyes, ears, and touch, in the gay visions which gilded the patient's confinement. The palate,
however, is subject to imposition as well as the other senses. The best and most acute bon
vivant loses his power of discriminating betwixt different kinds of wine, if he is prevented
from assisting his palate by the aid of his eyes,--that is, if the glasses of each are administered
indiscriminately while he is blindfolded. Nay, we are authorized to believe that individuals
have died in consequence of having supposed themselves to have taken poison, when, in reality,
the draught they had swallowed as such was of an innoxious or restorative quality.

Neither has the sense of smell, in its ordinary state, much connexion with our present subject.
Mr. Aubrey tells us, indeed, of an apparition which disappeared with a curious perfume as well
as a most melodious twang; and popular belief ascribes to the presence of infernal spirits
a strong relish of the sulphureous element of which they are inhabitants. Such accompaniments,
therefore, are usually united with other materials for imposture. If, as a general opinion
assures us, which is not positively discountenanced by Dr. Hibbert, by the inhalation of certain
gases or poisonous herbs, necromancers can dispose a person to believe he sees phantoms, it
is likely that the nostrils are made to inhale such suffumigation as well as the mouth.[4]

[Footnote 4: Most ancient authors, who pretend to treat of the wonders of natural magic, give
receipts for calling up phantoms. The lighting lamps fed by peculiar kinds of medicated oil,
and the use of suffumigations of strong and deleterious herbs, are the means recommended. From
these authorities, perhaps, a professor of legerdemain assured Dr. Alderson of Hull, that he
could compose a preparation of antimony, sulphur, and other drugs, which, when burnt in a confined
room, would have the effect of causing the patient to suppose he saw phantoms.--See "Hibbert
on Apparitions," p. 120.]

I have now arrived, by a devious path, at the conclusion of this letter, the object of which
is to show from what attributes of our nature, whether mental or corporeal, arises that predisposition
to believe in supernatural occurrences. It is, I think, conclusive that mankind, from a very
early period, have their minds prepared for such events by the consciousness of the existence
of a spiritual world, inferring in the general proposition the undeniable truth that each man,
from the monarch to the beggar, who has once acted his part on the stage, continues to exist,
and may again, even in a disembodied state, if such is the pleasure of Heaven, for aught that
we know to the contrary, be permitted or ordained to mingle amongst those who yet remain in
the body. The abstract possibility of apparitions must be admitted by every one who believes
in a Deity, and His superintending omnipotence. But imagination is apt to intrude its explanations
and inferences founded on inadequate evidence. Sometimes our violent and inordinate passions,
originating in sorrow for our friends, remorse for our crimes, our eagerness of patriotism,
or our deep sense of devotion--these or other violent excitements of a moral character, in
the visions of night, or the rapt ecstasy of the day, persuade us that we witness, with our
eyes and ears, an actual instance of that supernatural communication, the possibility of which
cannot be denied. At other times the corporeal organs impose upon the mind, while the eye and
the ear, diseased, deranged, or misled, convey false impressions to the patient. Very often
both the mental delusion and the physical deception exist at the same time, and men's belief
of the phenomena presented to them, however erroneously, by the senses, is the firmer and more
readily granted, that the physical impression corresponded with the mental excitement.

So many causes acting thus upon each other in various degrees, or sometimes separately, it
must happen early in the infancy of every society that there should occur many apparently well-authenticated
instances of supernatural intercourse, satisfactory enough to authenticate peculiar examples
of the general proposition which is impressed upon us by belief of the immortality of the soul.
These examples of undeniable apparitions (for they are apprehended to be incontrovertible),
fall like the seed of the husbandman into fertile and prepared soil, and are usually followed
by a plentiful crop of superstitious figments, which derive their sources from circumstances
and enactments in sacred and profane history, hastily adopted, and perverted from their genuine
reading. This shall be the subject of my next letter.

LETTER II.

