We said that the title "American Dictionary of the English Language" was an absurdity. Fancy
a "Cuban Dictionary of the Spanish Language." It would be of value only to the comparative
philologist, curious in the changes of meaning, pronunciation, and the like, which circumstances
are always bringing about in languages subjected to new conditions of life and climate. But
we must not forget to say that the title chosen by Dr. Webster conveyed also a meaning creditable
to his spirit and judgment. He always stoutly maintained the right of English as spoken in
America to all the privileges of a living language. In opposition to the purists who would
have clasped the language forever within the covers of Johnson, he insisted on the necessity
of coining new words or adapting old ones to express new things and new relations. It is many
years since we read his "Remarks" (if that was the title) on Pickering's "Vocabulary," and
in answer to the rather supercilious criticisms on himself in the "Anthology"; but the impression
left on our mind by that pamphlet is one of great respect for the good sense, acuteness, and
courage of its author. And of his Dictionary it may safely be said, that, with all its mistakes,
no work of the kind had then appeared so learned and so comprehensive. It may be doubted if
any living language possessed at that time a dictionary, or one, at least, the work of a single
man, in all respects its equal.

But etymologies are not the most important part of a good working dictionary, the intention
of which is not to inform readers and writers what a word may have meant before the Dispersion,
but what it means now. The pedigree of an adjective or substantive is of little consequence
to ninety-nine men in a hundred, and the writers who have wielded our mother-tongue with the
greatest mastery have been men who knew what words had most meaning to their neighbors and
acquaintances, and did not stay their pens to ask what ideas the radicals of those words may
possibly have conveyed to the mind of a bricklayer going up from Padanaram to seek work on
the Tower of Babel. A thoroughly good etymological dictionary of English is yet to seek; and
even if we should ever get one, it will be for students, and not for the laity. Nor is it the
primary object of a common dictionary to trace the history of the language. Of great interest
and importance to scholars, it is of comparatively little to Smith and Brown and their children
at the public school. It is a work apart, which we hope to see accomplished by the London Philological
Society in a manner worthy of comparison with what has been partly done for German by the brothers
Grimm,--alas that the illustrious duality should have been broken by death! A lexicon of that
kind should be an index to all the more eminent books in the language; but we do not hold this
to be the office of a dictionary for daily reference. A dictionary that should embrace every
unusual word, every new compound, every metaphorical turn of meaning, to be found in our great
writers, would be a compendium of the genius of our authors rather than of our language; and
a lexicographer who rakes the books of second and third-rate men for out-of-the-way phrases
is doing us no favor. A dictionary is not a drag-net to bring up for us the broken pots and
dead kittens, the sewerage of speech, as well as its living fishes. Nor do we think it a fair
test of such a work, that one should seek in it for every odd word that may have tickled his
fancy in a favorite author. Like most middle-aged readers, we have our specially private volumes.