Reconnaissance work developed, so that fighting machines went as escort to observing squadrons
and scouting operations were undertaken up to 100 miles behind the enemy lines; out of this
grew the art of camouflage, when ammunition dumps were painted to resemble herds of cows, guns
were screened by foliage or painted to merge into a ground scheme, and many other schemes were
devised to prevent aerial observation. Troops were moved by night for the most part, owing
to the keen eyes of the air pilots and the danger of bombs, though occasionally the aviator
had his chance. There is one story concerning a British pilot who, on returning from a reconnaissance
flight, observed a German Staff car on the road under him; he descended and bombed and machine--gunned
the car until the German General and his chauffeur abandoned it, took to their heels, and ran
like rabbits. Later still, when Allied air superiority was assured, there came the phase of
machine-gunning bodies of enemy troops from the air. Disregarding all antiaircraft measures,
machines would sweep down and throw battalions into panic or upset the military traffic along
a road, demoralising a battery or a transport train and causing as much damage through congestion
of traffic as with their actual machine-gun fire. Aerial photography, too, became a fine art;
the ordinary long focus cameras were used at the outset with automatic plate changers, but
later on photographing aeroplanes had cameras of wide angle lens type built into the fuselage.
These were very simply operated, one lever registering the exposure and changing the plate.
In many cases, aerial photographs gave information which the human eye had missed, and it is
noteworthy that photographs of ground showed when troops had marched over it, while the aerial
observer was quite unable to detect the marks left by their passing.

Some small mention must be made of seaplane activities, which, round the European coasts involved
in the War, never ceased. The submarine campaign found in the spotting seaplane its greatest
deterrent, and it is old news now how even the deeply submerged submarines were easily picked
out for destruction from a height and the news wirelessed from seaplane to destroyer, while
in more than one place the seaplane itself finished the task by bomb dropping. It was a seaplane
that gave Admiral Beatty the news that the whole German Fleet was out before the Jutland Battle,
news which led to a change of plans that very nearly brought about the destruction of Germany's
naval power. For the most part, the seaplanes of the War period were heavier than the land
machines and, in the opinion of the land pilots, were slow and clumsy things to fly. This was
inevitable, for their work demanded more solid building and greater reliability. To put the
matter into Hibernian phrase, a forced landing at sea is a much more serious matter than on
the ground. Thus there was need for greater engine power, bigger wingspread to support the
floats, and fuel tanks of greater capacity. The flying boats of the later War period carried
considerable crews, were heavily armed, capable of withstanding very heavy weather, and carried
good loads of bombs on long cruises. Their work was not all essentially seaplane work, for
the R.N.A.S. was as well known as hated over the German airship sheds in Belgium and along
the Flanders coast. As regards other theatres of War, they rendered valuable service from the
Dardanelles to the Rufiji River, at this latter place forming a principal factor in the destruction
of the cruiser Konigsberg. Their spotting work at the Dardanelles for the battleships was responsible
for direct hits from 15 in. guns on invisible targets at ranges of over 12,000 yards. Seaplane
pilots were bombing specialists, including among their targets army headquarters, ammunition
dumps, railway stations, submarines and their bases, docks, shipping in German harbours, and
the German Fleet at Wilhelmshaven. Dunkirk, a British seaplane base, was a sharp thorn in the
German side.

Turning from consideration of the various services to the exploits of the men composing them,
it is difficult to particularise. A certain inevitable prejudice even at this length of time
leads one to discount the valour of pilots in the German Air Service, but the names of Boelcke,
von Richthofen, and Immelmann recur as proof of the courage that was not wanting in the enemy
ranks, while, however much we may decry the Gotha raids over the English coast and on London,
there is no doubt that the men who undertook these raids were not deficient in the form of
bravery that is of more value than the unthinking valour of a minute which, observed from the
right quarter, wins a military decoration.

Yet the fact that the Allied airmen kept the air at all in the early days proved on which side
personal superiority lay, for they were outnumbered, out-manoeuvred, and faced by better material
than any that they themselves possessed; yet they won their fights or died. The stories of
their deeds are endless; Bishop, flying alone and meeting seven German machines and crashing
four; the battle of May 5th, 1915, when five heroes fought and conquered twenty-seven German
machines, ranging in altitude between 12,000 and 3,000 feet, and continuing the extraordinary
struggle from five until six in the evening. Captain Aizlewood, attacking five enemy machines
with such reckless speed that he rammed one and still reached his aerodrome safely--these are
items in a long list of feats of which the character can only be realised when it is fully
comprehended that the British Air Service accounted for some 8,000 enemy machines in the course
of the War. Among the French there was Captain Guynemer, who at the time of his death had brought
down fifty-four enemy machines, in addition to many others of which the destruction could not
be officially confirmed. There was Fonck, who brought down six machines in one day, four of
them within two minutes.

There are incredible stories, true as incredible, of shattered men carrying on with their work
in absolute disregard of physical injury. Major Brabazon Rees, V.C., engaged a big German battle-plane
in September of 1915 and, single-handed, forced his enemy out of action. Later in his career,
with a serious wound in the thigh from which blood was pouring, he kept up a fight with an
enemy formation until he had not a round of ammunition left, and then returned to his aerodrome
to get his wound dressed. Lieutenants Otley and Dunning, flying in the Balkans, engaged a couple
of enemy machines and drove them off, but not until their petrol tank had got a hole in it
and Dunning was dangerously wounded in the leg. Otley improvised a tourniquet, passed it to
Dunning, and, when the latter had bandaged himself, changed from the observer's to the pilot's
seat, plugged the bullet hole in the tank with his thumb and steered the machine home.

These are incidents; the full list has not been, and can never be recorded, but it goes to
show that in the pilot of the War period there came to being a new type of humanity, a product
of evolution which fitted a certain need. Of such was Captain West, who, engaging hostile troops,
was attacked by seven machines. Early in the engagement, one of his legs was partially severed
by an explosive bullet and fell powerless into the controls, rendering the machine for the
time unmanageable. Lifting his disabled leg, he regained control of the machine, and although
wounded in the other leg, he manoeuvred his machine so skilfully that his observer was able
to get several good bursts into the enemy machines, driving them away. Then, desperately wounded
as he was, Captain West brought the machine over to his own lines and landed safely. He fainted
from loss of blood and exhaustion, but on regaining consciousness, insisted on writing his
report. Equal to this was the exploit of Captain Barker, who, in aerial combat, was wounded
in the right and left thigh and had his left arm shattered, subsequently bringing down an enemy
machine in flames, and then breaking through another hostile formation and reaching the British
lines.

In recalling such exploits as these, one is tempted on and on, for it seems that the pilots
rivalled each other in their devotion to duty, this not confined to British aviators, but common
practically to all services. Sufficient instances have been given to show the nature of the
work and the character of the men who did it.

The rapid growth of aerial effort rendered it necessary in January of 1915 to organise the
Royal Flying Corps into separate wings, and in October of the same year it was constituted
in Brigades. In 1916 the Air Board was formed, mainly with the object of co-ordinating effort
and ensuring both to the R.N.A.S. and to the R.F.C. adequate supplies of material as far as
construction admitted. Under the presidency of Lord Cowdray, the Air Board brought about certain
reforms early in 1917, and in November of that year a separate Air Ministry was constituted,
separating the Air Force from both Navy and Army, and rendering it an independent force. On
April 1st, 1918, the Royal Air Force came into existence, and unkind critics in the Royal Flying
Corps remarked on the appropriateness of the date. At the end of the War, the personnel of
the Royal Air Force amounted to 27,906 officers, and 263,842 other ranks. Contrast of these
figures with the number of officers and men who took the field in 1914 is indicative of the
magnitude of British aerial effort in the War period.

XX. THE WAR PERIOD--II

There was when War broke out no realisation on the part of the British Government of the need
for encouraging the enterprise of private builders, who carried out their work entirely at
their-own cost. The importance of a supply of British-built engines was realised before the
War, it is true, and a competition was held in which a prize of L5,000 was offered for the
best British engine, but this awakening was so late that the R.F.C. took the field without
a single British power plant. Although Germany woke up equally late to the need for home produced
aeroplane engines, the experience gained in building engines for dirigibles sufficed for the
production of aeroplane power plants. The Mercedes filled all requirements together with the
Benz and the Maybach. There was a 225 horsepower Benz which was very popular, as were the 100
horse-power and 170 horse-power Mercedes, the last mentioned fitted to the Aviatik biplane
of 1917. The Uberursel was a copy of the Gnome and supplied the need for rotary engines.

In Great Britain there were a number of aeroplane constructing firms that had managed to emerge
from the lean years 1912-1913 with sufficient manufacturing plant to give a hand in making
up the leeway of construction when War broke out. Gradually the motor-car firms came in, turning
their body-building departments to plane and fuselage construction, which enabled them to turn
out the complete planes engined and ready for the field. The coach-building trade soon joined
in and came in handy as propeller makers; big upholstering and furniture firms and scores of
concerns that had never dreamed of engaging in aeroplane construction were busy on supplying
the R.F.C. By 1915 hundreds of different firms were building aeroplanes and parts; by 1917
the number had increased to over 1,000, and a capital of over a million pounds for a firm that
at the outbreak of War had employed a score or so of hands was by no means uncommon. Women
and girls came into the work, more especially in plane construction and covering and doping,
though they took their place in the engine shops and proved successful at acetylene welding
and work at the lathes. It was some time before Britain was able to provide its own magnetos,
for this key industry had been left in the hands of the Germans up to the outbreak of War,
and the 'Bosch' was admittedly supreme--even now it has never been beaten, and can only be
equalled, being as near perfection as is possible for a magneto.

One of the great inventions of the War was the synchronisation of engine-timing and machine
gun, which rendered it possible to fire through the blades of a propeller without damaging
them, though the growing efficiency of the aeroplane as a whole and of its armament is a thing
to marvel at on looking back and considering what was actually accomplished. As the efficiency
of the aeroplane increased, so anti-aircraft guns and range-finding were improved. Before the
War an aeroplane travelling at full speed was reckoned perfectly safe at 4,000 feet, but, by
the first month of 1915, the safe height had gone up to 9,000 feet, 7,000 feet being the limit
of rifle and machine gun bullet trajectory; the heavier guns were not sufficiently mobile to
tackle aircraft. At that time, it was reckoned that effective aerial photography ceased at
6,000 feet, while bomb-dropping from 7,000-8,000 feet was reckoned uncertain except in the
case of a very large target. The improvement in anti-aircraft devices went on, and by May of
1916, an aeroplane was not safe under 15,000 feet, while anti-aircraft shells had fuses capable
of being set to over 20,000 feet, and bombing from 15,000 and 16,000 feet was common. It was
not till later that Allied pilots demonstrated the safety that lies in flying very near the
ground, this owing to the fact that, when flying swiftly at a very low altitude, the machine
is out of sight almost before it can be aimed at.

The Battle of the Somme and the clearing of the air preliminary to that operation brought the
fighting aeroplane pure and simple with them. Formations of fighting planes preceded reconnaissance
craft in order to clear German machines and observation balloons out of the sky and to watch
and keep down any further enemy formations that might attempt to interfere with Allied observation
work. The German reply to this consisted in the formation of the Flying Circus, of which Captain
Baron von Richthofen's was a good example. Each circus consisted of a large formation of speedy
machines, built specially for fighting and manned by the best of the German pilots. These were
sent to attack at any point along the line where the Allies had got a decided superiority.

The trick flying of pre-war days soon became an everyday matter; Pegoud astonished the aviation
world before the War by first looping the loop, but, before three years of hostilities had
elapsed, looping was part of the training of practically every pilot, while the spinning nose
dive, originally considered fatal, was mastered, and the tail slide, which consisted of a machine
rising nose upward in the air and falling back on its tail, became one of the easiest 'stunts'
in the pilot's repertoire. Inherent stability was gradually improved, and, from 1916 onward,
practically every pilot could carry on with his machine-gun or camera and trust to his machine
to fly itself until he was free to attend to it. There was more than one story of a machine
coming safely to earth and making good landing on its own account with the pilot dead in his
cock-pit.

Toward the end of the War, the Independent Air Force was formed as a branch of the R.A.F. with
a view to bombing German bases and devoting its attention exclusively to work behind the enemy
lines. Bombing operations were undertaken by the R.N.A.S. as early as 1914-1915 against Cuxhaven,
Dusseldorf, and Friedrichshavn, but the supply of material was not sufficient to render these
raids continuous. A separate Brigade, the 8th, was formed in 1917 to harass the German chemical
and iron industries, the base being in the Nancy area, and this policy was found so fruitful
that the Independent Force was constituted on the 8th June, 1918. The value of the work accomplished
by this force is demonstrated by the fact that the German High Command recalled twenty fighting
squadrons from the Western front to counter its activities, and, in addition, took troops away
from the fighting line in large numbers for manning anti-aircraft batteries and searchlights.
The German press of the last year of the War is eloquent of the damage done in manufacturing
areas by the Independent Force, which, had hostilities continued a little longer, would have
included Berlin in its activities.

Formation flying was first developed by the Germans, who made use of it in the daylight raids
against England in 1917. Its value was very soon realised, and the V formation of wild geese
was adopted, the leader taking the point of the V and his squadron following on either side
at different heights. The air currents set up by the leading machines were thus avoided by
those in the rear, while each pilot had a good view of the leader's bombs, and were able to
correct their own aim by the bursts, while the different heights at which they flew rendered
anti-aircraft gun practice less effective. Further, machines were able to afford mutual protection
to each other and any attacker would be met by machine-gun fire from three or four machines
firing on him from different angles and heights. In the later formations single-seater fighters
flew above the bombers for the purpose of driving off hostile craft. Formation flying was not
fully developed when the end of the War brought stagnation in place of the rapid advance in
the strategy and tactics of military air work.

XXI. RECONSTRUCTION

The end of the War brought a pause in which the multitude of aircraft constructors found themselves
faced with the possible complete stagnation of the industry, since military activities no longer
demanded their services and the prospects of commercial flying were virtually nil. That great
factor in commercial success, cost of plant and upkeep, had received no consideration whatever
in the War period, for armies do not count cost. The types of machines that had evolved from
the War were very fast, very efficient, and very expensive, although the bombers showed promise
of adaptation to commercial needs, and, so far as other machines were concerned, America had
already proved the possibilities of mail-carrying by maintaining a mail service even during
the War period.

A civil aviation department of the Air Ministry was formed in February of 1919 with a Controller
General of Civil Aviation at the head. This was organised into four branches, one dealing with
the survey and preparation of air routes for the British Empire, one organising meteorological
and wireless telegraphy services, one dealing with the licensing of aerodromes, machines for
passenger or goods carrying and civilian pilots, and one dealing with publicity and transmission
of information generally. A special Act of Parliament 264 entitled 'The Air Navigation Acts,
1911-1919,' was passed on February 27th, and commercial flying was officially permitted from
May 1st, 1919.

