) He found another noble lord, in another place, stating, 'they took credit for
the whole of that measure, and he trusted that at no time would that position in Affghanistan
be abandoned.' These were views of public policy which went forth to India, and it was not
inconvenient nor unjust that those who administered the government of India on different principles
should proclaim their views. The noble earl opposite, knew that at that period it was not intended
altogether to confine the operations of the army to the westward of the Indus. It was very
well to say, that it was unwise and impolitic, and calculated to destroy the unanimity which
was so essential to the Government of India, to issue public information as to the reasons
for the withdrawal of an army, although its advance was heralded by a declaration on all these
points, because the withdrawal of an army was supposed to terminate the operations; but in
the eyes of India and Asia, if the declaration of the noble earl, dated from Simla on the same
day of the same month of a preceding year, had remained as a record of British policy after
that declaration had been followed by a campaign, brilliant at its commencement, but as delusive
as brilliant, and terminated by a most awful tragedy, and by the greatest disaster that ever
befell the British forces--was it unbecoming in a Governor-General to state, that the views
and policy of the Government of India had changed, and that the Government no longer wished
to interfere in the policy of Affghanistan, its motives for so doing having passed away on
finding that the king, represented to be so popular, was unpopular? But there was another circumstance
which called for Lord Ellenborough's declaration, namely, the necessity of allaying the apprehensions
and fears of other states; and it was Lord Ellenborough's duty to do this. Had the Sikhs no
apprehensions with respect to our intentions on Lahore? The most serious apprehensions had
been stated by the Durbar of Lahore to our political agent there, Mr. Clark, and had been represented
by him to the Government of India.--Other states also had entertained apprehensions of the
intentions and motives of the Indian Government, and he had yet to learn that it was a fault
in a Governor-General to allay these apprehensions of native states, even if no precedent could
be found for such a proceeding. After the policy of the Indian Government which had been proclaimed,
it became Lord Ellenborough's duty to take the step he had done."

This, however, is the true gravamen of the quarrel of the Whigs with Lord Ellenborough. He
has thrown overboard their aggressive policy--that policy which Lord Auckland, indeed, had
not in words avowed in India, but which his friends at home had openly declared and gloried
in. It was necessary for Lord Ellenborough, by a frank declaration of his intentions, to exclude
the prevalent suspicion--nay, the universal belief--of those projects of encroachment which
the Whig Government had countenanced. This was the unkindest cut of all.

  "Ill-weaved ambition! how much art
  thou shrunk!"

It was hard that their Affghan laurels--the only wreaths of victory that the Whigs had ever
won--should have already withered on their brow. It was hard that their disasters should have
been retrieved under the sway of a political opponent. But it was intolerable that the plans
of conquest which they had fondly cherished, and tried to press upon the country, should be
virtually denounced amid the universal approbation of all good men at home and abroad; that
the solitary achievement of their administration in military affairs, should be recorded in
the page of history, only to be condemned as an act of injustice, inexcusably undertaken, and
incompetently executed: and relinquished by their successors in the very hour of triumph, with
a wise self-denial which no one will suspect that a Whig could have ever practised.

The cloven foot has here too plainly been revealed. It is not this phrase or that procession
in particular that has displeased the Whigs. It is the abandonment of a policy which they dared
not proclaim in India, and which they could not justify in England. They are always hankering
after it still. Mr. Vernon Smith: "Considered it most absurd for any Governor General to declare
publicly that our Indian empire had reached the limits which nature had assigned to it. Why,
what were the limits which nature had assigned to our Indian empire? In early days, the Mahratta
ditch was said to be its natural limit; and why was the Sutlej or the Indus to be more the
boundary of our empire than the Himalayas?"

Even Lord John Russell, who now acknowledges the wisdom of surrendering Affghanistan, declares,
in almost so many words, that his party have shrunk from a general vote of censure because
they could not properly put it, and have chosen this Act as "not the worst," but the most convenient
to attack. What the other errors of Lord Ellenborough are, or whether there are any, except
the exploded story of the incivility to Mr. Amos, is nowhere definitely, discoverable in their
discussions, and is not likely for some time to assume a greater degree of consistency than
vague Whig calumnies and general Whig dissatisfaction. Let them come to something definite,
and see how they will fare. If, as their old friend Lord Brougham said, "revelling in defeat,
and intoxicated with failure," they know not when they have had enough--if they desire a contest
on some other issue--let them name their day and abide the result.

In conclusion, we would only observe, what a contrast the conduct of the Whig party towards
Lord Ellenborough exhibits to that of their opponents towards Lord Auckland! The ex Governor-General
is not absent, but here to defend himself; and every one sees how much room there is for assailing
his measures. Their calamitous result would of itself go far to support the charge of imprudence,
or something worse. But not a word has been said against him that could be avoided; and even
those statements that necessarily reflect upon his discretion, have been extorted from the
Conservative party, in reply to the attacks which Lord Auckland's friends have made upon his
successor. The English people admire fair play as much as they appreciate the value of practical
benefits. They see the false pretences on which an absent man has now been assailed by disappointed
opponents; they feel the generosity that has saved his rival from retaliation. They know the
state of Indian affairs when Lord Ellenborough assumed his office, and they can estimate the
position into which they have now been brought under his vigorous management. They agree with
him in the pacific principles which he has avowed, and look forward to a continued career of
useful services, in which the resources of that great empire will be more than ever developed
under his control, and the power of the British name perpetuated by a wise, an upright, and
a fearless Administration.