Here on the Sea Road he paused. The wind, tearing, as it had always done, round the corner
met him and for a moment he had to pull himself together and face it. He remembered, too, at
that instant, Norah Monogue. Where had he seen her? What had brought her to his mind quite
lately? What did she mean by interfering?--interfering? Then he remembered. It was her name
in the letter rack. She was at The Man at Arms ill. Impatiently, he would have driven her from
him, but all the way down the Sea Road she kept pace with him.

"I'm done with her.... I'm done with everybody. Damn it all, one keeps thinking...."

In the evening light the sea below the road was a pale blue and near the shore a calm green.
It was all very peaceful. The water lapped the shore, the Bell Rock sighed its melancholy note
across space; out a little way, when some jagged stones sprang like shoulders from the blue,
gentle waves ringed them in foam like lace and broke with a whisper against their sides.

Except for the sea there was absolute silence. Peter alone seemed to walk the world. As he
strode along his excitement increased and his knees trembled and his eyes were burning. He
did not think of the earlier days when he had walked that same road. That was another existence
that had nothing to do with him as he was now. The anticipation that possessed him was parallel
with the eager demand of the opium-smoker. "Soon I shall be drugged. I'm going to forget, to
forget, to forget. Just to let myself go--to sink, to drown."

He had still with him the consciousness of keeping at bay an army of thoughts that would leap
upon him if he gave them an opportunity. But soon that would be all over--no more battle, no
more struggle. He turned the corner and saw Scaw House standing amongst its dark trees, with
its black palings in front of its garden and the deserted barren patch of field in front of
that again. The sun was getting low and the sky above the house was flaming but the trees were
sombre and the house was cold.

It did not seem to him to have changed in any way since he had left it. The windows had always
been of a grim hideous glass, the stone shape of the place always squat and ugly, and the short
flight of steps that led up to the heavy beetling door had always hinted, with their old hard
surface, at a surly welcome and a reluctant courtesy. It was all as it had been.

The sky, now a burning red, looked down upon an utterly deserted garden, and the silence that
was over all the place seemed to rise, like streaming mist, from the heart of the nettles that
grew thick along the crumbling wall.

The paint had faded from the door and the knocker was rusty; as Peter hammered his arrival
on to the flat silence a bird flew from the black bunch of trees, whirred into the air and
was gone....

For a long time after the echo of his knock had faded away there was silence, and it seemed
to him that this could be only another of those dreams--those dreams when he had stood on the
stone steps in the heart of the deserted garden and woken the echoes through the empty house.
At last there were steps; some one came along the passage and halted on the other side of the
door and listened. They both waited on either side, and Peter could hear heavy thick breathing.
He caught the knocker again and let it go with a clang that seemed to startle the house to
its foundations. Then he heard bolts, very slowly drawn back, again a pause and then, stealthily
the door swung open.

A scent of rotten apples met him as the door opened, a scent so strong that it was confused
at once with his vision of the woman who stood there, she, with her gnarled and puckered face,
her brown skin and crooked nose standing, as it were, for an actual and visible personification
of all the rotten apples that had ever been in the world.

He recognised also a sound, the drunken hesitating hiccough of the old clock that had been
there when he had come in that evening long ago ready to receive his beating, that had kept
pace with his grandfather's snorings and mutterings and had seemed indeed, the only understanding
companion that the old man had ever had. The woman was, he saw, the arms-akimbo ferocious cook
of the old days, but now how wrinkled and infirm!--separated by so many more years than the
lapse of time allowed her from the woman of his past appearance there. There was more in her
than the mere crumbling of her body, there was also the crumbling of her spirit, and he saw
in her old bleared eyes the sign of some fierce battle fought by her, and fought to her own
utter defeat.

In her eyes he saw the thing that his father had become....

What did he want, she asked him, coming disturbing them at that hour, but in her face there
was, he fancied, something more than the surly question justified, some curiosity, some eagerness
that seemed to show that she did not have many visitors here and that their company might be
an eager relief.

"I'm Peter Westcott and I've come to see my father."

She did not answer this, but only, with her hand to her breast stood back a little and watched
him with frightened eyes. She was wearing an old, faded, green blouse, open at her scraggy
neck and her skirt was a kind of bed-quilt, odd bits of stuffs of many colours stuck together.
Her scanty hair was pulled into a bunch on the top of her head, her face where it was not brown
was purple, and her hands were always shaking so that her fingers rattled together like twigs.
But her alarmed and startled eyes had some appeal that made one pity her poor battered old body.

"You don't remember me," he said, looking into her frightened eyes. But she shook her head slowly.

"You'd much better have kept away," she said.

"Where is he?" he asked her.

She shuffled in front of him down the dark hall. Except for this strange smell of rotting apples
it was all very much as it had been. The lamp hanging at the foot of the stairs made the same
spluttering noise and there was the door of the room that had once been his grandfather's,
and Peter fancied that he could still see the old man swaying there in the doorway, laughing
at his son and his grandson as they struggled there on the floor.

The woman pushed open the dining-room door and Peter went in.

Peter's first thought was that his father was not there. He saw standing in front of the well-remembered
fireplace a genial-looking gentleman clothed in a crimson dressing-gown--a bald gentleman,
rather fat, with a piece of toast in one hand and a glass of something in the other. Peter
had expected he knew not what--something stern and terrible, something that would have answered
in one way or another to those early recollections of terror and punishment that still dwelt
with him. He had remembered his father as short, spare, black-haired, grim, pale--this gentleman,
who was now watching him, bulged in the cheeks and the stomach, was highly coloured with purple
veins down the sides of his nose and his rather podgy hands trembled. Nevertheless, it was
his father. When the red dressing-gown spoke it was in a kind of travesty of that old sharp
voice, those cutting icy words--a thickened and degenerate relation:

"My boy! At last!" the gentleman said.

The room presented disorder. On the table were scattered playing cards, a chair was overturned,
under the cactus plant lay what looked like a fiddle, and the only two pictures on the wall
were very indecent old drawings taken apparently from some Hogarthian prints.

