The reserve of Swift puts us quite at fault as to the locality of Mrs. Barton's lodgings. They
may have been in Lord Halifax's house; but if not, it requires some supposition to explain
why they were not in that of Newton, with whom she had lived, and with whom she certainly lived
after the death of Halifax. Perhaps, when farther research is made in such directions as may
be indicated by the only unreserved statement of the existing case which has ever been printed,
the conclusion I arrive at, as to me the most probable, may either be reinforced, or another
substituted for it. Be this as it may, such points as I have discussed, relating to such men
as Newton, will not remain in abeyance for ever, let biographers be as timid as they will.

A. DE MORGAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. PARR ON MILTON.

Amongst my autographs I find the inclosed letter frown Dr. Parr. It is written upon a half-sheet
of paper, and in a very cramp and illegible hand. To whom it is addressed, or when written,
I am unable to say. As it relates to the opinions held by Milton, perhaps you may think it
worth insertion in your work, particularly as Milton has been the subject of some papers in
"N. & Q." lately.

W. M. F.

Copy of Letter from Dr. Parr, without date or address.

    Dear Sir,

    I send you Johnson's Life of Milton. My former feelings again return
    upon me, that Johnson did not mean to affirm that Milton prayed not
    upon any occasion or in any manner; but that he was engaged in no
    visible worship; that he prayed at no stated time; that he had not what
    we may call any regular return of family or private devotion. Pray read
    the sequel. That he lived without prayer can hardly be affirmed, this
    {434} surely is decided in my favour: it may wear the appearance of
    contradiction to the former passage, that omitting public prayer he
    omitted all; in truth, the expression just quoted is too peremptory and
    too general. But the sense of Johnson cannot be mistaken, if you attend
    to the different views he had in each sentence; and I repeat my former
    assertion, that Johnson did not think Milton destitute of a devout
    spirit, or totally negligent of prayer in some form or other.

    Yours, very truly and respectfully,
    J. PARR.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARTS OF MSS.

As an instance of the unfortunate dispersion of the parts of valuable MSS. through different
countries, occasioned probably, in the case now to be mentioned, by public convulsions and
the wild fury of revolutionary mobs in France, will you afford me space to quote an interesting
description of a MS. from the catalogue of a library to be sold at Paris in December next?
The MSS. and printed books in this library belonged to the eminent bookseller J. J. De Bure,
whose ancestor was the distinguished and well-known bibliographer Guillaume de Bure. The publicity
given to descriptions like the present through the medium of "N. & Q." may ultimately lead,
on some occasions, to the scattered volumes being brought together again, either by way of
purchase, or in exchange for other works.

JOHN MACRAY.

Oxford.

    "Catalogue des Livres rares et précieux, manuscrits et imprimés, de la
    Bibliothèque de feu M. J. J. De Bure, ancien libraire du Roi et de la
    Bibliothèque Royale, etc.

    "No. 1395. Le Second Livre des Commentaires de la Guerre Gallèque, par
    Caius Julius Cæsar, traduict en françois. In-8, mar. noir, avec des
    fermoirs en argent.

    "Manuscrit sur vélin.

