THE OPERA

A Sketch of the Development of Opera. With full Descriptions of all Works in the Modern Repertory.

BY R.A. STREATFEILD

WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY J.A. FULLER-MAITLAND

THIRD EDITION, REVISED AND ENLARGED

LONDON

GEORGE ROUTLEDGE & SONS, LIMITED

PHILADELPHIA: J.B. LIPPINCOTT CO.

CONTENTS

CHAP.      PAGE

INTRODUCTION      vii

I. THE BEGINNINGS OF OPERA      1

PERI--MONTEVERDE--CAVALLI--CESTI--CAMBERT--LULLI--PURCELL-- KEISER--SCARLATTI--HANDEL

II. THE REFORMS OF GLUCK      19

III. OPERA BUFFA, OPERA COMIQUE, AND SINGSPIEL      40

PERGOLESI--ROUSSEAU--MONSIGNY--GRÉTRY--CIMAROSA--HILLER

IV. MOZART      52

V. THE CLOSE OF THE CLASSICAL PERIOD      74

MÉHUL--CHERUBINI--SPONTINI--BEETHOVEN--BOIELDIEU

VI. WEBER AND THE ROMANTIC SCHOOL      87

WEBER--SPOHR--MARSCHNER--KREUTZER--LORTZING--NICOLAI--FLOTOW-- MENDELSSOHN--SCHUBERT--SCHUMANN

VII. ROSSINI, DONIZETTI, AND BELLINI      106

VIII. MEYERBEER AND FRENCH OPERA      126

HÉROLD--MEYERBEER--BERLIOZ--HALÉVY--AUBER

IX. WAGNER'S EARLY WORKS       151

X. WAGNER'S LATER WORKS      176

XL. MODERN FRANCE     214

GOUNOD--THOMAS--BIZET--SAINT SAËNS--REYER---MASSENET--BRUNEAU-- CHARPENTIER--DEBUSSY

XII. MODERN ITALY     262

VERDI--BOITO--PONCHIELLI--PUCCINI--MASCAGNI--LEONCAVALLO--GIORDANO

XIII. MODERN GERMAN AND SLAVONIC OPERA     302

CORNELIUS--GOETZ---GOLDMARK--HUMPERDINCK--STRAUSS--SMETANA-- GLINKA--PADEREWSKI

XIV. ENGLISH OPERA     323

BALFE--WALLACE--BENEDICT--GORING THOMAS--MACKENZIE--STANFORD-- SULLIVAN--SMYTH

INDEX OF OPERAS     351

INDEX OF COMPOSERS     361

INTRODUCTION

If Music be, among the arts, 'Heaven's youngest-teemed star', the latest of the art-forms she
herself has brought forth is unquestionably Opera. Three hundred years does not at first seem
a very short time, but it is not long when it covers the whole period of the inception, development,
and what certainly looks like the decadence, of an important branch of man's artistic industry.
The art of painting has taken at least twice as long to develop; yet the three centuries from
Monteverde to Debussy cover as great a distance as that which separates Cimabue from Degas.
In operatic history, revolutions, which in other arts have not been accomplished in several
generations, have got themselves completed, and indeed almost forgotten, in the course of a
few years. Twenty-five years ago, for example, Wagner's maturer works were regarded, by the
more charitable of those who did not admire them, as intelligible only to the few enthusiasts
who had devoted years of study to the unravelling of their mysteries; the world in general
looked askance at the 'Wagnerians', as they were called, and professed to consider the shyly-confessed
admiration of the amateurs as a mere affectation. In that time we have seen the tables turned,
and now there is no more certain way for a manager to secure a full house than by announcing
one of these very works. An even shorter period covers the latest Italian renaissance of music,
the feverish excitement into which the public was thrown by one of its most blatant productions,
and the collapse of a set of composers who were at one time hailed as regenerators of their
country's art.

But though artistic conditions in opera change quickly and continually, though reputations
are made and lost in a few years, and the real reformers of music themselves alter their style
and methods so radically that the earlier compositions of a Gluck, a Wagner, or a Verdi present
scarcely any point of resemblance to those later masterpieces by which each of these is immortalised,
yet the attitude of audiences towards opera in general changes curiously little from century
to century; and plenty of modern parallels might be found, in London and elsewhere, to the
story which tells of the delay in producing 'Don Giovanni' on account of the extraordinary
vogue of Martini's 'Una Cosa Rara', a work which only survives because a certain tune from
it is brought into the supper-scene in Mozart's opera.

There is a good deal of fascination, and some truth, in the theory that different nations enjoy
opera in different ways. According to this, the Italians consider it solely in relation to
their sensuous emotions; the French, as producing a titillating sensation more or less akin
to the pleasures of the table; the Spaniards, mainly as a vehicle for dancing; the Germans,
as an intellectual pleasure; and the English, as an expensive but not unprofitable way of demonstrating
financial prosperity. The Italian might be said to hear through what is euphemistically called
his heart, the Frenchman through his palate, the Spaniard through his toes, the German through
his brain, and the Englishman through his purse. But in truth this does not represent the case
at all fairly. For, to take only modern instances, Italy, on whose congenial soil 'Cavalleria
Rusticana' and the productions it suggested met with such extraordinary success, saw also in
'Falstaff' the wittiest and most brilliant musical comedy since 'Die Meistersinger', and in
'Madama Butterfly' a lyric of infinite delicacy, free from any suggestion of unworthy emotion.
Among recent French operas, works of tragic import, treated with all the intricacy of the most
advanced modern schools, have been received with far greater favour than have been shown to
works of the lighter class which we associate with the genius of the French nation; and of
late years the vogue of such works as 'Louise' or 'Pelléas et Mélisande' shows that the taste
for music without any special form has conquered the very nation in which form has generally
ranked highest. In Germany, on the other hand, some of the greatest successes with the public
at large have been won by productions which seem to touch the lowest imaginable point of artistic
imbecility; and the ever-increasing interest in musical drama that is manifested year after
year by London audiences shows that higher motives than those referred to weigh even with Englishmen.
The theory above mentioned will not hold water, for there are, as a matter of fact, only two
ways of looking at opera: either as a means, whether expensive or not, of passing an evening
with a very little intellectual trouble, some social éclat, and a certain amount of pleasure,
or as a form of art, making serious and justifiable claims on the attention of rational people.
These claims of opera are perhaps more widely recognised in England than they were some years
ago; but there are still a certain number of persons, and among them not a few musical people,
who hesitate to give opera a place beside what is usually called 'abstract' music. Music's
highest dignity is, no doubt, reached when it is self-sufficient, when its powers are exerted
upon its own creations, entirely without dependence upon predetermined emotions calling for
illustration, and when the interest of the composition as well as the material is conveyed
exclusively in terms of music. But the function of music in expressing those sides of human
emotion which lie too deep for verbal utterance, a function of which the gradual recognition
led on to the invention of opera, is one that cannot be slighted or ignored; in it lies a power
of appeal to feeling that no words can reach, and a very wonderful definiteness in conveying
exact shades of emotional sensation. Not that it can of itself suggest the direction in which
the emotions are to be worked upon; but this direction once given from outside, whether by
a 'programme' read by the listener or by the action and accessories of the stage, the force
of feeling can be conveyed with overwhelming power, and the whole gamut of emotion, from the
subtlest hint or foreshadowing to the fury of inevitable passion, is at the command of him
who knows how to wield the means by which expression is carried to the hearer's mind. And in
this fact--for a fact it is--lies the completest justification of opera as an art-form. The
old-fashioned criticism of opera as such, based on the indisputable fact that, however excited
people may be, they do not in real life express themselves in song, but in unmodulated speech,
is not now very often heard. With the revival in England of the dramatic instinct, the conventions
of stage declamation are readily accepted, and if it be conceded that the characters in a drama
may be allowed to speak blank verse, it is hardly more than a step further to permit the action
to be carried on by means of vocal utterance in music. Until latterly, however, English people,
though taking pleasure in the opera, went to it rather to hear particular singers than to enjoy
the work as a whole, or with any consideration for its dramatic significance. We should not
expect a stern and uncompromising nature like Carlyle's to regard the opera as anything more
than a trivial amusement, and that such was his attitude towards it appears from his letters;
but it is curious to see that a man of such strongly pronounced dramatic tastes as Edward FitzGerald,
though devoted to the opera in his own way, yet took what can only be called a superficial
view of its possibilities.

The Englishman who said of the opera, 'At the first act I was enchanted; the second I could
just bear; and at the third I ran away', is a fair illustration of an attitude common in the
eighteenth century; and in France things were not much better, even in days when stage magnificence
reached a point hardly surpassed in history. La Bruyère's 'Je ne sais comment l'opéra avec
une musique si parfaite, et une dépense toute royale, a pu réussir à m'ennuyer', shows how
little he had realised the fatiguing effect of theatrical splendour too persistently displayed.
St. Evrémond finds juster cause for his bored state of mind in the triviality of the subject-matter
of operas, and his words are worth quoting at some length: 'La langueur ordinaire où je tombe
aux opéras, vient de ce que je n'en ai jamais vu qui ne m'ait paru méprisable dans la disposition
du sujet, et dans les vers. Or, c'est vainement que l'oreille est flattée, et que les yeux
sont charmés, si l'esprit ne se trouve pas satisfait; mon âme d'intelligence avec mon esprit
plus qu'avec mes sens, forme une résistance aux impressions qu'elle peut recevoir, ou pour
le moins elle manque d'y prêter un consentement agréable, sans lequel les objets les plus voluptueux
même ne sauraient me donner un grand plaisir. Une sottise chargée de musique, de danses, de
machines, de décorations, est une sottise magnifique; c'est un vilain fonds sous de beaux dehors,
où je pénètre avec beaucoup de désagrément.'

The cant phrase in use in FitzGerald's days, 'the lyric stage', might have conveyed a hint
of the truth to a man who cared for the forms of literature as well as its essence. For, in
its highest development, opera is most nearly akin to lyrical utterances in poetry, and the
most important musical revolution of the present century has been in the direction of increasing,
not diminishing, the lyrical quality of operatic work. The Elizabethan writers--not only the
dramatists, but the authors of romances--interspersed their blank verse or their prose narration
with short lyrical poems, just as in the days of Mozart the airs and concerted pieces in an
opera were connected by wastes of recitative that were most aptly called 'dry'; and as it was
left to a modern poet to tell, in a series of lyrics succeeding one another without interval,
a dramatic story such as that of Maud, so was it a modern composer who carried to completion,
in 'Tristan und Isolde', the dramatic expression of passion at the highest point of lyrical
utterance. It is no more unnatural for the raptures of Wagner's lovers, or the swan-song of
ecstasy, to be sung, than for the young man whose character Tennyson assumes, to utter himself
in measured verse, sometimes of highly complex structure. The two works differ not in kind,
but in degree of intensity, and to those whose ears are open to the appeal of music, the power
of expression in such a case as this is greater beyond all comparison than that of poetry,
whether declaimed or merely read. That so many people recognise the rational nature of opera
in the present day is in great measure due to Wagner, since whose reforms the conventional
and often idiotic libretti of former times have entirely disappeared. In spite of the sneers
of the professed anti-Wagnerians, which were based as often as not upon some ineptitude on
the part of the translator, not upon any inherent defect in the original, the plots invented
by Wagner have won for themselves an acceptance that may be called world-wide. And whatever
be the verdict on his own plots, there can be no question as to the superiority of the average
libretto since his day. No composer dare face the public of the present day with one of the
pointless, vapid sets of rhymes, strung together with intervals of bald recitative, that pleased
our forefathers, and equally inconceivable is the re-setting of libretti that have served before,
in the manner of the eighteenth century composers, a prodigious number of whom employed one
specially admired 'book' by Metastasio.

Unfortunately those who take an intelligent interest in opera do not even yet form a working
majority of the operatic audience in any country. While the supporters of orchestral, choral,
or chamber music consist wholly of persons, who, whatever their degree of musical culture,
take a serious view of the art so far as they can appreciate it, and therefore are unhampered
by the necessity of considering the wishes of those who care nothing whatever about the music
they perform. In connection with every operatic enterprise the question arises of how to cater
for a great class who attend operatic performances for any other reason rather than that of
musical enjoyment, yet without whose pecuniary support the undertaking must needs fail at once.
Nor is it only in England that the position is difficult. In countries where the opera enjoys
a Government subsidy, the influences that make against true art are as many and as strong as
they are elsewhere. The taste of the Intendant in a German town, or that of the ladies of his
family, may be on such a level that the public of the town, over the operatic arrangement of
which he presides, may very well be compelled to hear endless repetitions of flashy operas
that have long passed out of every respectable repertory; and in other countries the Government
official within whose jurisdiction the opera falls may, and very often does, enforce the engagement
of some musically incompetent prima donna in whom he, or some scheming friend, takes a particular
interest.

The moral conditions of the operatic stage are no doubt far more satisfactory than they were,
and in England the general deodorisation of the theatre has not been unfelt in opera; but even
without the unworthy motives which too often drew the bucks and the dandies of a past day to
the opera-house, the influence of the unintelligent part of the audience upon the performers
is far from good in an artistic sense. It is this which fosters that mental condition with
which all who are acquainted with the operatic world are only too familiar. Now, just as in
the days when Marcello wrote his Teatro alla moda, there is scarcely a singer who does not
hold, and extremely few who do not express, the opinion that all the rest of the profession
is in league against them; and by this supposition, as well as by many other circumstances,
an atmosphere is created which is wholly antagonistic to the attainment of artistic perfection.
All honour is due to the purely artistic singers who have reached their position without intrigue,
and whose influence on their colleagues is the best stimulus to wholesome endeavour. It is
beyond question that the greater the proportion of intelligent hearers in any audience or set
of subscribers, the higher will the standard be, not only in vocalisation, but in that combination
which makes the artist as distinguished from the mere singer. For every reason, too, it is
desirable that opera should be given, as a general rule, in the language of the country in
which the performance takes place, and although the system of giving each work with its own
original words is an ideally perfect one for trained hearers, yet the difficulties in the way
of its realisation, and the absurdities that result from such expedients as a mixture of two
or more languages in the same piece, render it practically inexpedient for ordinary operatic
undertakings. The recognition of English as a possible medium of vocal expression may be slow,
but it is certainly making progress, and in the last seasons at Covent Garden it was occasionally
employed even before the fashionable subscribers, who may be presumed to have tolerated it,
since they did not manifest any disapproval of its use. Since the first edition of this book
was published, the Utopian idea, as it then seemed, of a national opera for London has advanced
considerably towards realisation, and it is certain that when it is set on foot, the English
language alone will be employed.

While opera is habitually performed in a foreign language, or, if in English, by those who
have not the art of making their words intelligible, there will always be a demand for books
that tell the story more clearly than is to be found in the doggerel translations of the libretti,
unless audiences return with one accord to the attitude of the amateurs of former days, who
paid not the slightest attention to the plot of the piece, provided only that their favourite
singers were taking part. Very often in that classic period the performers themselves knew
nothing and cared less about the dramatic meaning of the works in which they appeared, and
a venerable anecdote is current concerning a certain supper party, the guests at which had
all identified themselves with one or other of the principal parts in 'Il Trovatore'. A question
being asked as to the plot of the then popular piece, it was found that not one of the company
had the vaguest notion what it was all about. The old lady who, during the church scene in
'Faust', asked her grand-daughter, in a spirit of humble inquiry, what the relationship was
between the two persons on the stage, is no figment of a diseased imagination; the thing actually
happened not long ago, and one is left to wonder what impression the preceding scenes had made
upon the hearer.

Of books that profess to tell the stories of the most popular operas there is no lack, but,
as a rule, the plots are related in a 'bald and unconvincing' style, that leaves much to be
desired, and sometimes in a confused way that necessitates a visit to the opera itself in order
to clear up the explanation. There are useful dictionaries, too, notably the excellent 'Opern-Handbuch'
of Dr Riemann, which gives the names and dates of production of every opera of any note; but
the German scientist does not always condescend to the detailed narration of the stories, though
he gives the sources from which they may have been derived. Mr Streatfeild has hit upon the
happy idea of combining the mere story-telling part of his task with a survey of the history
of opera from its beginning early in the seventeenth century to the present day. In the course
of this historical narrative, the plots of all operas that made a great mark in the past, or
that have any chance of being revived in the present, are related clearly and succinctly, and
with a rare and delightful absence of prejudice. The author finds much to praise in every school;
he is neither impatient of old opera nor intolerant of new developments which have yet to prove
their value; and he makes us feel that he is not only an enthusiastic lover of opera as a whole,
but a cultivated musician. The historical plan adopted, in contradistinction to the arrangement
by which the operas are grouped under their titles in alphabetical order, involves perhaps
a little extra trouble to the casual reader; but by the aid of the index, any opera concerning
which the casual reader desires to be informed can be found in its proper place, and the chief
facts regarding its origin and production are given there as well as the story of its action.
Even in music, the youngest of the arts, the precise origin of many modern developments is
largely a matter of conjecture. The history of opera, fortunately for the historian, is an
exception to the rule. All the circumstances which combine to produce the idea of opera are
known to us, and every detail of its genesis is established beyond the possibility of doubt.

The invention of opera partook largely of the nature of an accident. Late in the sixteenth
century a few Florentine amateurs, fired with the enthusiasm for Greek art which was at that
time the ruling passion of every cultivated spirit in Italy, set themselves the task of reconstructing
the conditions of the Athenian drama. The result of their labours, regarded as an attempted
revival of the lost glories of Greek tragedy, was a complete failure; but, unknown to themselves,
they produced the germ of that art-form which, as years passed on, was destined, in their own
country at least, to reign alone in the affections of the people, and to take the place, so
far as the altered conditions permitted, of the national drama which they had fondly hoped
to recreate.

The foundations of the new art-form rested upon the theory that the drama of the Greeks was
throughout declaimed to a musical accompaniment. The reformers, therefore, dismissed spoken
dialogue from their drama, and employed in its place a species of free declamation or recitative,
which they called musica parlante. The first work in which the new style of composition was
used was the 'Dafne' of Jacopo Peri, which was privately performed in 1597. No trace of this
work survives, nor of the musical dramas by Emilio del Cavaliere and Vincenzo Galilei to which
the closing years of the sixteenth century gave birth. But it is best to regard these privately
performed works merely as experiments, and to date the actual foundation of opera from the
year 1600, when a public performance of Peri's 'Euridice' was given at Florence in honour of
the marriage of Maria de' Medici and Henry IV. of France. A few years later a printed edition
of this work was published at Venice, a copy of which is now in the library of the British
Museum, and in recent times it has been reprinted, so that those who are curious in these matters
can study this protoplasmic opera at their leisure. Expect for a few bars of insignificant
chorus, the whole work consists of the accompanied recitative, which was the invention of these
Florentine reformers. The voices are accompanied by a violin, chitarone (a large guitar), lira
grande, liuto grosso, and gravicembalo or harpsichord, which filled in the harmonies indicated
by the figured bass. The instrumental portions of the work are poor and thin, and the chief
beauty lies in the vocal part, which is often really pathetic and expressive. Peri evidently
tried to give musical form to the ordinary inflections of the human voice, how successfully
may be seen in the Lament of Orpheus which Mr. Morton Latham has reprinted in his 'Renaissance
of Music,' The original edition of 'Euridice' contains an interesting preface, in which the
composer sets forth the theory upon which he worked, and the aims which he had in view. It
is too long to be reprinted here, but should be read by all interested in the early history
of opera.

With the production of 'Euridice' the history of opera may be said to begin; but if the new
art-form had depended only upon the efforts of Peri and his friends, it must soon have languished
and died. With all their enthusiasm, the little band of Florentines had too slight an acquaintance
with the science of music to give proper effect to the ideas which they originated. Peri built
the ship, but it was reserved for the genius of Claudio Monteverde to launch it upon a wider
ocean than his predecessor could have dreamed of. Monteverde had been trained in the polyphonic
school of Palestrina, but his genius had never acquiesced in the rules and restrictions in
which the older masters delighted. He was a poor contrapuntist, and his madrigals are chiefly
interesting as a proof of how ill the novel harmonies of which he was the discoverer accorded
with the severe purity of the older school But in the new art he found the field his genius
required. What had been weakness and license in the madrigal became strength and beauty in
the opera. The new wine was put into new bottles, and both were preserved. Monteverde produced
his 'Arianna' in 1607, and his 'Orfeo' in 1608, and with these two works started opera upon
the path of development which was to culminate in the works of Wagner. 'Arianna,' which, according
to Marco da Gagliano, himself a rival composer of high ability, 'visibly moved all the theatre
to tears,' is lost to us save for a few quotations; but 'Orfeo' is in existence, and has recently
been reprinted in Germany. A glance at the score shows what a gulf separates this work from
Peri's treatment of the same story. Monteverde, with his orchestra of thirty-nine instruments--brass,
wood, and strings complete--his rich and brilliant harmonies, sounding so strangely beautiful
to ears accustomed only to the severity of the polyphonic school, and his delicious and affecting
melodies, sometimes rising almost to the dignity of an aria, must have seemed something more
than human to the eager Venetians as they listened for the first time to music as rich in colour
as the gleaming marbles of the Cà d'Oro or the radiant canvases of Titian and Giorgione.

The success of Monteverde had its natural result. He soon had pupils and imitators by the score.
The Venetians speedily discovered that they had an inherent taste for opera, and the musicians
of the day delighted to cater for it. Monteverde's most famous pupil was Cavalli, to whom may
with some certainty be attributed an innovation which was destined to affect the future of
opera very deeply. In his time, to quote Mr. Latham's 'Renaissance of Music,' 'the musica parlante
of the earliest days of opera was broken up into recitative, which was less eloquent, and aria,
which was more ornamental. The first appearance of this change is to be found in Cavalli's
operas, in which certain rhythmical movements called "arias" which are quite distinct from
the musica parlante, make their appearance. The music assigned by Monteverde to Orpheus when
he is leading Eurydice back from the Shades is undoubtedly an air, but the situation is one
to which an air is appropriate, and musica parlante would be inappropriate. If the drama had
been a play to be spoken and not sung, there would not have been any incongruity in allotting
a song to Orpheus, to enable Eurydice to trace him through the dark abodes of Hades. But the
arias of Cavalli are not confined to such special situations, and recur frequently,' Cavalli
had the true Venetian love of colour. In his hands the orchestra began to assume a new importance.
His attempts to give musical expression to the sights and sounds of nature--the murmur of the
sea, the rippling of the brook and the tempestuous fury of the winds--mark an interesting step
in the history of orchestral development. With Marcantonio Cesti appears another innovation
of scarcely less importance to the history of opera than the invention of the aria itself--the
da capo or the repetition of the first part of the aria in its entirety after the conclusion
of the second part. However much the da capo may have contributed to the settlement of form
in composition, it must be admitted that it struck at the root of all real dramatic effect,
and in process of time degraded opera to the level of a concert. Cesti was a pupil of Carissimi,
who is famous chiefly for his sacred works, and from him he learnt to prefer mere musical beauty
to dramatic truth. Those of his operas which remain to us show a far greater command of orchestral
and vocal resource than Monteverde or Cavalli could boast, but so far as real expression and
sincerity are concerned, they are inferior to the less cultured efforts of the earlier musicians.
It would be idle to attempt an enumeration of the Venetian composers of the seventeenth century
and their works. Some idea of the musical activity which prevailed may be gathered from the
fact that while the first public theatre was opened in 1637, before the close of the century
there were no less than eleven theatres in the city devoted to the performance of opera alone.

Meanwhile the enthusiasm for the new art-form spread through the cities of Italy. According
to an extant letter of Salvator Rosa's, opera was in full swing in Rome during the Carnival
of 1652. The first opera of Provenzale, the founder of the Neapolitan school, was produced
in 1658. Bologna, Milan, Parma, and other cities soon followed suit. France, too, was not behindhand,
but there the development of the art soon deserved the name a new school of opera, distinct
in many important particulars from its parent in Italy. The French nobles who saw the performance
of Peri's 'Euridice' at the marriage of Henry IV. may have carried back tales of its splendour
and beauty to their own country, but Paris was not as yet ripe for opera. Not until 1647 did
the French Court make the acquaintance of the new art which was afterwards to win some of its
most brilliant triumphs in their city. In that year a performance of Peri's 'Euridice' (which,
in spite of newer developments, had not lost its popularity) was given in Paris under the patronage
of Cadinal Mazarin. This was followed by Cavalli's 'Serse,' conducted by the composer himself.
These performances quickened the latent genius of the French people, and Robert Cambert, the
founder of their school, hastened to produce operas, which, though bearing traces of Italian
influence, were nevertheless distinctively French in manner and method. His works, two of which
are known to us, 'Pomone' and 'Les Peines et les Plaisirs de l'Amour,' were to a certain extent
a development of the masques which had been popular in Paris for many years. They are pastoral
and allegorical in subject, and are often merely a vehicle for fulsome adulation of the 'Roi
Soleil.' But in construction they are operas pure and simple. There is no spoken dialogue,
and the music is continuous from first to last. Cambert's operas were very successful, and
in conjunction with his librettist Perrin he received a charter from the King in 1669, giving
him the sole right of establishing opera-houses in the kingdom. Quarrels, however, ensued.
Cambert and Perrin separated. The charter was revoked, or rather granted to a new-comer, Giovanni
Battista Lulli, and Cambert, in disgrace, retired to England, where he died. Lulli (1633-1687)
left Italy too young to be much influenced by the developments of opera in that country, and
was besides too good a man of business to allow his artistic instinct to interfere with his
chance of success. He found Cambert's operas popular in Paris, and instead of attempting any
radical reforms, he adhered to the form which he found ready made, only developing the orchestra
to an extent which was then unknown, and adding dignity and passion to the airs and recitatives.
Lulli's industry was extraordinary. During the space of fourteen years he wrote no fewer than
twenty operas, conceived upon a grand scale, and produced with great magnificence. His treatment
of recitative is perhaps his strongest point, for in spite of the beauty of one or two isolated
songs, such as the famous 'Bois épais' in 'Amadis' and Charon's wonderful air in 'Alceste,'
his melodic gift was not great, and his choral writing is generally of the most unpretentious
description. But his recitative is always solid and dignified, and often impassioned and pathetic.
Music, too, owes him a great debt for his invention of what is known as the French form of
overture, consisting of a prelude, fugue, and dance movement, which was afterwards carried
to the highest conceivable pitch of perfection by Handel.

Meanwhile an offshoot of the French school, transplanted to the banks of the Thames, had blossomed
into a brief but brilliant life under the fostering care of the greatest musical genius our
island has ever produced, Henry Purcell. Charles II. was not a profound musician, but he knew
what sort of music he liked, and on one point his mind was made up--that he did not like the
music of the elderly composers who had survived the Protectorate, and came forward at his restoration
to claim the posts which they had held at his father's court. Christopher Gibbons, Child, and
other relics of the dead polyphonic school were quietly dismissed to provincial organ-lofts,
and Pelham Humphreys, the most promising of the 'Children of the Chapel Royal,' was sent over
to Paris to learn all that was newest in music at the feet of Lulli. Humphreys came back, in
the words of Pepys, 'an absolute Monsieur,' full of the latest theories concerning opera and
music generally, and with a sublime contempt for the efforts of his stay-at-home colleagues.
His own music shows the French influence very strongly, and in that of his pupil Henry Purcell
(1658-1695) it may also be perceived, although coloured and transmuted by the intensely English
character of Purcell's own genius. For many years it was supposed that Purcell's first and,
strictly speaking, his only opera, 'Dido and Æneas,' was written by him at the age of seventeen
and produced in 1675. Mr. Barclay Squire has now proved that it was not produced until much
later, but this scarcely lessens the wonder of it, for Purcell can never have seen an opera
performed, and his acquaintance with the new art-form must have been based upon Pelham Humphrey's
account of the performances which he had seen in Paris. Possibly, too, he may have had opportunities
of studying the engraved scores of some of Lulli's operas, which, considering the close intercourse
between the courts of France and England, may have found their way across the Channel. 'Dido
and Æneas' is now universally spoken of as the first English opera. Masques had been popular
from the time of Queen Elizabeth onwards, which the greatest living poets and musicians had
not disdained to produce, and Sir William Davenant had given performances of musical dramas
'after the manner of the Ancients' during the closing years of the Commonwealth, but it is
probable that spoken dialogue occurred in all these entertainments, as it certainly did in
Locke's 'Psyche,' Banister's 'Circe,' in fact, in all the dramatic works of this period which
were wrongly described as operas. In 'Dido and Æneas,' on the contrary, the music is continuous
throughout. Airs and recitatives, choruses and instrumental pieces succeed each other, as in
the operas of the Italian and French schools. 'Dido and Æneas' was written for performance
at a young ladies' school kept by one Josias Priest in Leicester Fields and afterwards at Chelsea.
The libretto was the work of Nahum Tate, the Poet Laureate of the time. The opera is in three
short acts, and Virgil's version of the story is followed pretty closely save for the intrusion
of a sorceress and a chorus of witches who have sworn Dido's destruction and send a messenger
to Æneas, disguised as Mercury, to hasten his departure. Dido's death song, which is followed
by a chorus of mourning Cupids, is one of the most pathetic scenes ever written, and illustrates
in a forcible manner Purcell's beautiful and ingenious use of a ground-bass. The gloomy chromatic
passage constantly repeated by the bass instruments, with ever-varying harmonies in the violins,
paints such a picture of the blank despair of a broken heart as Wagner himself, with his immense
orchestral resources, never surpassed. In the general construction of his opera Purcell followed
the French model, but his treatment of recitative is bolder and more various than that of Lulli,
while as a melodist he is incomparably superior. Purcell never repeated the experiment of 'Dido
and Æneas.' Musical taste in England was presumably not cultivated enough to appreciate a work
of so advanced a style. At any rate, for the rest of his life, Purcell wrote nothing for the
theatre but incidental music. Much of this, notably the scores of 'Timon of Athens,' 'Bonduca,'
and 'King Arthur,' is wonderfully beautiful, but in all of these works the spoken dialogue
forms the basis of the piece, and the music is merely an adjunct, often with little reference
to the main interest of the play. In 'King Arthur' occurs the famous 'Frost Scene,' the close
resemblance of which to the 'Choeur de Peuples des Climats Glacés' in Lulli's 'Isis' would
alone make it certain that Purcell was a careful student of the French school of opera.

Opera did not take long to cross the Alps, and early in the seventeenth century the works of
Italian composers found a warm welcome at the courts of southern Germany. But Germany was not
as yet ripe for a national opera. During the first half of the century there are records of
one or two isolated attempts to found a school of German opera, but the iron heel of the Thirty
Years' War was on the neck of the country, and art struggled in vain against overwhelming odds.
The first German opera, strictly so called, was the 'Dafne' of Heinrich Schütz, the words of
which were a translation of the libretto already used by Peri. Of this work, which was produced
in 1627, all trace has been lost. 'Seelewig,' by Sigmund Staden, which is described as a 'Gesangweis
auf italienische Art gesetzet,' was printed at Nuremberg in 1644, but there is no record of
its ever having been performed. To Hamburg belongs the honour of establishing German opera
upon a permanent basis. There, in 1678, some years before the production of Purcell's 'Dido
and Æneas,' an opera-house was opened with a performance of a Singspiel entitled 'Der erschaffene,
gefallene und aufgerichtete Mensch,' the music of which was composed by Johannn Theile. Three
other works, all of them secular, were produced in the same year. The new form of entertainment
speedily became popular among the rich burghers of the Free City, and composers were easily
found to cater for their taste.

For many years Hamburg was the only German town where opera found a permanent home, but there
the musical activity must have been remarkable. Reinhard Keiser (1673-1739), the composer whose
name stands for what was best in the school, is said alone to have produced no fewer than a
hundred and sixteen operas. Nearly all of these works have disappeared, and those that remain
are for the most part disfigured by the barbarous mixture of Italian and German which was fashionable
at Hamburg and in London too at that time. The singers were possibly for the most part Italians,
who insisted upon singing their airs in their native language, though they had no objection
to using German for the recitatives, in which there was no opportunity for vocal display. Keiser's
music lacks the suavity of the Italian school, but his recitatives are vigorous and powerful,
and seem to foreshadow the triumphs which the German school was afterwards to win in declamatory
music. The earliest operas of Handel (1685-1759) were written for Hamburg, and in the one of
them which Fate has preserved for us, 'Almira' (1704), we see the Hamburg school at its finest.
In spite of the ludicrous mixture of German and Italian there is a good deal of dramatic power
in the music, and the airs show how early Handel's wonderful gift of melody had developed.
The chorus has very little to do, but a delightful feature of the work is to be found in the
series of beautiful dance-tunes lavishly scattered throughout it. One of these, a Sarabande,
was afterwards worked up into the famous air, 'Lascia ch' io pianga,' in 'Rinaldo.' When the
new Hamburg Opera-House was opened in 1874, it was inaugurated by a performance of 'Almira,'
which gave musicians a unique opportunity of realising to some extent what opera was like at
the beginning of the eighteenth century. In 1706 Handel left Hamburg for the purpose of prosecuting
his studies in Italy. There he found the world at the feet of Alessandro Scarlatti (1659-1725),
a composer whose importance to the history of opera can scarcely be over-estimated. He is said,
like Cesti, to have been a pupil of Carissimi, though, as the latter died in 1674, at the age
of seventy, he cannot have done much more than lay the foundation of his pupil's greatness.
The invention of the da capo is generally attributed to Scarlatti, wrongly, as has already
been shown, since it appears in Cesti's opera 'La Dori,' which was performed in 1663. But it
seems almost certain that Scarlatti was the first to use accompanied recitative, a powerful
means of dramatic expression in the hands of all who followed him, while his genius advanced
the science of instrumentation to a point hitherto unknown.

Nevertheless, Scarlatti's efforts were almost exclusively addressed to the development of the
musical rather than the dramatic side of opera, and he is largely responsible for the strait-jacket
of convention in which opera was confined during the greater part of the eighteenth century,
in fact until it was released by the genius of Gluck.

Handel's conquest of Italy was speedy and decisive. 'Rodrigo,' produced at Florence in 1707,
made him famous, and 'Agrippina' (Venice, 1708) raised him almost to the rank of a god. At
every pause in the performance the theatre rang with shouts of 'Viva il caro Sassone,' and
the opera had an unbroken run of twenty-seven nights, a thing till then unheard of. It did
not take Handel long to learn all that Italy could teach him. With his inexhaustible fertility
of melody and his complete command of every musical resource then known, he only needed to
have his German vigour tempered by Italian suppleness and grace to stand forth as the foremost
operatic composer of the age. His Italian training and his theatrical experience gave him a
thorough knowledge of the capabilities of the human voice, and the practical common-sense which
was always one of his most striking characteristics prevented him from ever treating it from
the merely instrumental point of view, a pitfall into which many of the great composers have
fallen. He left Italy for London in 1710, and produced his 'Rinaldo' at the Queen's Theatre
in the Haymarket the following year. It was put upon the stage with unexampled magnificence,
and its success was prodigious. 'Rinaldo' was quickly followed by such succession of masterpieces
as put the ancient glories of the Italian stage to shame. Most of them were produced at the
Haymarket Theatre, either under Handel's own management or under the auspices of a company
known as the Royal Academy of Music. Handel's success made him many enemies, and he was throughout
his career the object of innumerable plots on the part of disappointed and envious rivals.
The most active of these was Buononcini, himself a composer of no mean ability, though eclipsed
by the genius of Handel. Buononcini's machinations were so far successful--though he himself
was compelled to leave England in disgrace for different reasons--that in 1741, after the production
of his 'Deidamia,' Handel succumbed to bankruptcy and a severe attack of paralysis. After this
he wrote no more for the stage, but devoted himself to the production of those oratorios which
have made his name famous wherever the English language is spoken.

In spite of their transcendent beauties, the form of Handel's operas has long banished them
from the stage. Handel, with all his genius, was not one of the great revolutionists of the
history of music. He was content to bring existing forms to the highest possible point of perfection,
without seeking to embark upon new oceans of discovery. Opera in his day consisted of a string
of airs connected by recitative, with an occasional duet, and a chorus to bring down the curtain
at the end of the work. The airs were, as a rule, fully accompanied. Strings, hautboys, and
bassoons formed the groundwork of the orchestra. If distinctive colouring or sonority were
required, the composer used flutes, horns, harps, and trumpets, while to gain an effect of
a special nature, he would call in the assistance of lutes and mandolins, or archaic instruments
such as the viola da gamba, violetta marina, cornetto and theorbo. The recitativo secco was
accompanied by the harpsichord, at which the composer himself presided. The recitativo stromentato,
or accompanied recitative, was only used to emphasise situations of special importance. Handel's
incomparable genius infused so much dramatic power into this meagre form, that even now the
truth and sincerity of his songs charm us no less than their extraordinary melodic beauty.
But it is easy to see that in the hands of composers less richly endowed, this form was fated
to degenerate into a mere concert upon the stage. The science of vocalisation was cultivated
to such a pitch of perfection that composers were tempted, and even compelled, to consult the
tastes of singers rather than dramatic truth. Handel's successors, such as Porpora and Hasse,
without a tithe of his genius, used such talent as they possessed merely to exhibit the vocal
dexterity of popular singers in the most agreeable light. The favourite form of entertainment
in these degraded times was the pasticcio, a hybrid production composed of a selection of songs
from various popular operas, often by three or four different composers, strung together regardless
of rhyme or reason. Even in Handel's lifetime the older school of opera was tottering to its
fall. Only the man was needed who should sweep the mass of insincerity from the stage and replace
it by the purer ideal which had been the guiding spirit of Peri and Monteverde.

CHAPTER II

THE REFORMS OF GLUCK

The death of Lulli left French opera established upon a sure foundation. The form which he
perfected seemed, with all its faults, to commend itself to the genius of the nation, and for
many years a succession of his followers and imitators, such as Campra and Destouches, continued
to produce works which differed little in scope and execution from the model he had established.
The French drama of the seventeenth century had reached such a high point of development that
its influence over the sister art was all-powerful. The composers of the French court willingly
sacrificed musical to declamatory interest, and thus, while they steered clear of the mere
tunefulness which was the rock on which Italian composers made shipwreck, they fell into the
opposite extreme and wrote works which seem to us arid and jejune. Paris at this time was curiously
isolated from the world of music, and it is strange to find how little the development of Italian
opera affected the French school. Marais (1650-1718) was more alive to Southern influences
than most of his contemporaries, and in his treatment of the aria there is a perceptible approach
to Italian methods; but Rameau (1683-1764) brought back French opera once more to its distinctive
national style. Though he followed the general lines of Lulli's school, he brought to bear
upon it a richer sense of beauty and a completer musical organisation than Lulli ever possessed.
In his treatment of declamation pure and simple, he was perhaps Lulli's inferior, but in all
other respects he showed a decided advance upon his predecessor. He infused new life into the
monotonous harmony and well-worn modulations which had done duty for so many years. His rhythms
were novel and suggestive, and the originality and resource of his orchestration opened the
eyes of Frenchmen to new worlds of beauty and expression. Not the least important part of Rameau's
work lay in the influence which his music exerted upon the genius of the man to whom the regeneration
of opera is mainly due. Christoph Willibald Gluck (1714-1787) was the son of a forester. Such
musical education as he received he acquired in Italy, and his earlier works are written in
the Italian style which was fashionable at the time. There are few indications in his youthful
operas of the power which was destined later to work such changes in the world of opera. He
was at first whole-hearted in his devotion to the school of Porpora, Hasse and the others who
did so much to degrade Italian opera. 'Artaserse,' his first work, was produced in 1741, the
year in which Handel bade farewell for ever to the stage. It was successful, and was promptly
followed by others no less fortunate. In 1745 Gluck visited England where he produced 'La Caduta
de' Giganti,' a work which excited the contempt of Handel. In the following year he produced
'Piramo e Tisbe,' a pasticcio, which failed completely. Its production, however, was by no
means labour lost, if it be true, as the story goes, that it was by its means that Gluck's
eyes were opened to the degradation to which opera had been reduced. It was about this time
that Gluck first heard Rameau's music, and the power and simplicity of it compared with the
empty sensuousness of Italian opera, must have materially strengthened him in the desire to
do something to reform and purify his art. Yet, in spite of good resolutions, Gluck's progress
was slow. In 1755 he settled at Vienna, and there, under the shadow of the court, he produced
a series of works in which the attempt to realise dramatic truth is often distinctly perceptible,
though the composer had as yet not mastered the means for its attainment. But in 1762 came
'Orfeo ed Euridice,' a work which placed Gluck at the head of all living operatic composers,
and laid the foundation of the modern school of opera.

The libretto of 'Orfeo' was by Calzabigi, a prominent man of letters, but it seems probable
that Gluck's own share in it was not a small one. The careful study which he had given to the
proper conditions of opera was not likely to exclude so important a question as that of the
construction and diction of the libretto, and the poem of 'Orfeo' shows so marked an inclination
to break away from the conventionality and sham sentiment of the time that we can confidently
attribute much of its originality to the influence of the composer himself. The opening scene
shows the tomb of Eurydice erected in a grassy valley. Orpheus stands beside it plunged in
the deepest grief, while a troop of shepherds and maidens bring flowers to adorn it. His despairing
cry of 'Eurydice' breaks passionately upon their mournful chorus, and the whole scene, though
drawn in simple lines, is instinct with genuine pathos. When the rustic mourners have laid
their gifts upon the tomb and departed, Orpheus calls upon the shade of his lost wife in an
air of exquisite beauty, broken by expressive recitative. He declares his resolution of following
her to the underworld, when Eros enters and tells him of the condition which the gods impose
on him if he should attempt to rescue Eurydice from the shades. Left to himself, Orpheus discusses
the question of the rescue in a recitative of great intrinsic power, which shows at a glance
how far Gluck had already distanced his predecessors in variety and dramatic strength. The
second act takes place in the underworld. The chorus of Furies is both picturesque and effective,
and the barking of Cerberus which sounds through it is a touch, which though its naïveté may
provoke a smile, is characteristic of Gluck's strenuous struggle for realism. Orpheus appears
and pleads his cause in accents of touching entreaty. Time after time his pathetic song is
broken by a sternly decisive 'No,' but in the end he triumphs, and the Furies grant him passage.
The next scene is in the Elysian fields. After an introduction of charming grace, the spirits
of the blessed are discovered disporting themselves after their kind. Orpheus appears, lost
in wonder at the magical beauty of all around him. Here again is a remarkable instance of Gluck's
pictorial power. Simple as are the means he employs, the effect is extraordinary. The murmuring
of streams, the singing of birds, and the placid beauty of the landscape are depicted with
a touch which, if light, is infallibly sure. Then follows the famous scene in which Orpheus,
forbidden to look at the face of his beloved, tries to find her by touch and instinct among
the crowd of happy spirits who pass him by. At last she approaches, and he clasps her in his
arms, while a chorus of perfect beauty bids him farewell as he leads her in triumph to the
world above. The third act shows the two wandering in a cavern on their way to the light of
day. Eurydice is grieved that her husband should never look into her eyes, and her faith is
growing cold. After a scene in which passionate beauty goes side by side with strange relapses
into conventionality, Orpheus gives way to her prayers and reproaches, and turns to embrace
her. In a moment she sinks back lifeless, and he pours forth his despair in the immortal strains
of 'Che farò senza Euridice.' Eros then appears, and tells him that the gods have had pity
upon his sorrow. He transports him to the Temple of Love, where Eurydice, restored to life,
is awaiting him, and the opera ends with conventional rejoicings.

Beautiful as 'Orfeo' is--and the best proof of its enduring beauty is that, after nearly a
hundred and fifty years of change and development, it has lost none of its power to charm--we
must not be blind to the fact that it is a strange combination of strength and weakness. Strickly
speaking, Gluck was by no means a first-rate musician, and in 1762 he had not mastered his
new gospel of sincerity and truth so fully as to disguise the poverty of his technical equipment.
Much of the orchestral part of the work is weak and thin. Berlioz even went so far as to describe
the overture as une niaiserie incroyable, and the vocal part sometimes shows the influence
of the empty formulas from which Gluck was trying to escape. Throughout the opera there are
unmistakable traces of Rameau's influence, indeed it is plain that Gluck frankly took Rameau's
'Castor et Pollux' as his model when he sat down to compose 'Orfeo.' The plot of the earlier
work, the rescue of Pollux by Castor from the infernal regions, has of course much in common
with that of 'Orfeo' and it is obvious that Gluck took many hints from Rameau's musical treatment
of the various scenes which the two works have in common.

In spite, however, of occasional weaknesses, 'Orfeo' is a work of consummate loveliness. Compared
to the tortured complexity of our modern operas, it stands in its dignified simplicity like
the Parthenon beside the bewildering beauty of a Gothic cathedral; and its truth and grandeur
are perhaps the more conspicuous because allied to one of those classic stories which even
in Gluck's time had become almost synonymous with emptiness and formality.

Five years elapsed between the production of 'Orfeo' and of Gluck's next great opera, 'Alceste';
but that these years were not wasted is proved by the great advance which is perceptible in
the score of the later work. The libretto of 'Alceste' is in many ways superior to that of
'Orfeo,' and Gluck's share of the work shows an incontestable improvement upon anything he
had yet done. His touch is firmer, and he rarely shows that inclination to drop back into the
old conventional style, which occasionally mars the beauty of 'Orfeo.' Gluck wrote a preface
to the published score of 'Alceste,' which is one of the most interesting documents in the
history of music. It proves conclusively--not that any proof is necessary--that the composer
had thought long and seriously about the scope of his art, and that the reforms which he introduced
were a deliberate attempt to reconstruct opera upon a new basis of ideal beauty. If he sometimes
failed to act up to his own theories, it must be remembered in what school he had been trained,
and how difficult must have been the attempt to cast off in a moment the style which had been
habitual to him for so many years.

When 'Alceste' was produced in Paris in 1776, Gluck made some alterations in the score, some
of which were scarcely improvements. In his later years he became so completely identified
with the French school that the later version is now the more familiar.

The opera opens before the palace at Pheræ, where the people are gathered to pray Heaven to
spare the life of Admetus, who lies at the point of death. Alcestis appears, and, after an
air of great dignity and beauty, bids the people follow her to the temple, there to renew their
supplications. The next scene shows the temple of Apollo. The high priest and the people make
passionate appeal to the god for the life of their king, and the oracle replies that Admetus
must perish, if no other will die in his place. The people, seized with terror, fly from the
place, and Alcestis, left alone, determines to give up her own life for that of her husband.
The high priest accepts her devotion, and in the famous air 'Divinités du Styx,' she offers
herself a willing sacrifice to the gods below. In the original version the second act opened
with a scene in a gloomy forest, in which Alcestis interviews the spirits of Death, and, after
renewing her vow, obtains leave to return and bid farewell to her husband. The music of this
scene is exceedingly impressive, and intrinsically it must have been one of the finest in the
opera, but it does not advance the action in the least, and its omission sensibly increases
the tragic effect of the drama. In the later version the act begins with the rejoicings of
the people at the recovery of Admetus. Alcestis appears, and after vainly endeavouring to conceal
her anguish from the eyes of Admetus is forced to admit that she is the victim whose death
is to restore him to life. Admetus passionately refuses the sacrifice, and declares that he
will rather die with her than allow her to immolate herself on his account. He rushes wildly
into the palace, and Alcestis bids farewell to life in an air of extraordinary pathos and beauty.
The third act opens with the lamentations of the people for their departed queen. Hercules,
released for a moment from his labours, enters and asks for Admetus. He is horrified at the
news of the calamity which has befallen his friend, and announces his resolve of rescuing Alcestis
from the clutches of Death. Meanwhile Alcestis has reached the portals of the underworld, and
is about to surrender herself to the powers of Hell. Admetus, who has not yet given up hope
of persuading her to relinquish her purpose, appears, and pleads passionately with her to leave
him to his doom. His prayers are vain, and Alcestis is tearing herself for the last time from
his arms, when Hercules rushes in. After a short struggle he defeats the powers of Death and
restores Alcestis to her husband. The character of Hercules did not appear in the earlier version
of the opera, and in fact was not introduced until after Gluck had left Paris, a few days after
the production of 'Alceste.' Most of the music allotted to him is probably not by Gluck at
all, but seems to have been written by Gossec, who was at that time one of the rising musicians
in Paris. The close of the opera is certainly inferior to the earlier parts, but the introduction
of Hercules is a great improvement upon the original version of the last act, in which the
rescue of Alcestis is effected by Apollo. The French librettist did not treat the episode cleverly,
and indeed all the last scene is terribly prosaic, and lacking in poetical atmosphere. To see
how the appearance of the lusty hero in the halls of woe can heighten the tragic interest by
the sheer force of contrast, we must turn to the 'Alcestis' of Euripides, where the death of
Alcestis and the strange conflict of Hercules with Death is treated with just that touch of
mystery and unearthliness which is absent from the libretto which Gluck was called upon to
set. Of the music of 'Alceste,' its passion and intensity, it is impossible to speak too highly.
It has pages of miraculous power, in which the deepest tragedy and the most poignant pathos
are depicted with unfaltering certainty. It is strange to think by what simple means Gluck
scaled the loftiest heights. Compared with our modern orchestra the poverty of the resources
upon which he depended seems almost ludicrous. Even in the vocal part of 'Alceste' he was so
careful to avoid anything like the sensuous beauty of the Italian style, that sometimes he
fell into the opposite extreme and wrote merely arid rhetoric. Yet he held so consistently
before him his ideal of dramatic truth, that his music has survived all changes of taste and
fashion, and still delights connoisseurs as fully as on the day it was produced. 'Paride ed
Elena,' Gluck's next great work, shows his genius under a more lyrical aspect. Here he gives
freer reign to the romanticism which he had designedly checked in 'Alceste,' and much of the
music seems in a measure to anticipate the new influences which Mozart was afterwards to infuse
into German music. Unfortunately the libretto of 'Paride ed Elena,' though possessing great
poetical merit, is monotonous and deficient in incident, so that the opera has never won the
success which it deserves, and is now almost completely forgotten.

The admiration for the French school of opera which had been aroused in Gluck by hearing the
works of Rameau was not by any means a passing fancy. His music proves that the French school
had more influence upon his development than the Italian, so it was only natural that he should
wish to have an opportunity of introducing his works to Paris. That opportunity came in 1774,
when, after weary months of intrigue and disappointment, his 'Iphigéne en Aulide' was produced
at the Académie Royale de Musique. After that time Gluck wrote all his greatest works for the
French stage, and became so completely identified with the country of his adoption, that nowadays
we are far more apt to think of him as a French than as a German composer. 'Iphigénie en Aulide'
is founded upon Racine's play, which in its turn had been derived from the tragedy of Euripides.
The scene of the opera is laid at Aulis, where the Greek fleet is prevented by contrary winds
from starting for Troy. Diana, who has been unwittingly insulted by Agamemnon, demands a human
sacrifice, and Iphigenia, the guiltless daughter of Agamemnon, has been named by the high priest
Calchas as the victim. Iphigenia and her mother Clytemnestra are on their way to join the fleet
at Aulis, and Agamemnon has sent a despairing message to bid them return home, hoping thus
to avoid the necessity of sacrificing his child. Meanwhile the Greek hosts, impatient of delay,
clamour for the victim, and are only appeased by the assurance of Calchas that the sacrifice
shall take place that very day. Left alone with Agamemnon, Calchas entreats him to submit to
the will of the gods. Agamemnon, torn by conflicting emotions, at first refuses, but afterwards,
relying upon the message which he has sent to his wife and daughter, promises that if Iphigenia
sets foot in Aulis he will give her up to death. He has hardly spoken the words when shouts
of joy announce the arrival of Clytemnestra and Iphigenia. The message has miscarried, and
they are already in the camp. As a last resource Agamemnon now tells Clytemnestra that Achilles,
the lover of her daughter, is false, hoping that this will drive her from the camp. Clytemnestra
calls upon Iphigenia to thrust her betrayer from her bosom, and Iphigenia replies so heroically
that it seems as though Agamemnon's plot to save his daughter's life might actually succeed.
Unfortunately Achilles himself appears, and, after a scene of reproach and recrimination, succeeds
in dispelling Iphigenia's doubts and winning her to complete reconciliation.

The second act begins with the rejoicings over the marriage of Iphigenia. The general joy is
turned to lamentation by the discovery of Agamemnon's vow and the impending doom of Iphigenia.
Clytemnestra passionately entreats Achilles to save her daughter, which he promises to do,
though Iphigenia professes herself ready to obey her father. In the following scene Achilles
meets Agamemnon, and, after a long altercation, swears to defend Iphigenia with the last drop
of his blood. He rushes off, and Agamemnon is left in anguish to weigh his love for his daughter
against his dread of the angry gods, Love triumphs and he sends Areas, his attendant, to bid
Clytemnestra fly with Iphigenia home to Mycenae.

In the third act the Greeks are angrily demanding their victim. Achilles prays Iphigenia to
fly with him, but she is constant to her idea of duty, and bids him a pathetic farewell. Achilles,
however, is not to be persuaded, and in an access of noble rage swears to slay the priest upon
the steps of the altar rather than submit to the sacrifice of his love. After another farewell
scene with her mother Iphigenia is led off, while Clytemnestra, seeing in imagination her daughter
under the knife of the priest, bursts forth into passionate blasphemy. Achilles and his Thessalian
followers rush in to save Iphigenia, and for a time the contest rages fiercely, but eighteenth-century
convention steps in. Calchas stops the combat, saying that the gods are at length appeased;
Iphigenia is restored to Achilles, and the opera ends with general rejoicings.

'Iphigénie en Aulide' gave Gluck a finer opportunity than he had yet had. The canvas is broader
than in 'Alceste' or 'Orfeo,' and the emotions are more varied. The human interest, too, is
more evenly sustained, and the supernatural element, which played so important a part in the
two earlier works, is almost entirely absent. Nevertheless, fine as much of the music is, the
restraint which Gluck exercised over himself is too plainly perceptible, and the result is
that many of the scenes are stiff and frigid. There is scarcely a trace of the delightful lyricism
which rushes through 'Paride ed Elena' like a flood of resistless delight. Gluck had set his
ideal of perfect declamatory truth firmly before him, and he resisted every temptation to swerve
into the paths of mere musical beauty. He had not yet learnt how to combine the two styles.
He had not yet grasped the fact that in the noblest music truth and beauty are one and the
same thing.

In 'Armide,' produced in 1777, he made another step forward. The libretto was the same as that
used by Lulli nearly a hundred years before. The legend, already immortalised by Tasso, was
strangely different from the classical stories which had hitherto inspired his greatest works.
The opening scene strikes the note of romanticism which echoes through the whole opera. Armida,
a princess deeply versed in magic arts, laments that one knight, and one only, in the army
of the Crusaders has proved blind to her charms. All the rest are at her feet, but Rinaldo
alone is obdurate. She has had a boding dream, moreover, in which Rinaldo has vanquished her,
and all the consolations of her maidens cannot restore her peace of mind. Hidraot, her uncle,
entreats her to choose a husband, but she declares that she will bestow her hand upon no one
but the conqueror of Rinaldo. While the chorus is celebrating her charms, Arontes, a Paynim
warrior, enters bleeding and wounded, and tells how the prowess of a single knight has robbed
him of his captives. Armida at once recognises the hand of the recalcitrant Rinaldo, and the
act ends with her vows of vengeance against the invincible hero.

The second act shows Rinaldo in quest of adventures which may win him the favour of Godfrey
of Bouillon, whose wrath he has incurred. Armida's enchantments lead him to her magic gardens,
where, amidst scenes of voluptuous beauty, he yields to the fascinations of the place, lays
down his arms, and sinks into sleep. Armida rushes in, dagger in hand, but the sight of the
sleeping hero is too potent for her, and overcome by passion, she bids the spirits of the air
transport them to the bounds of the universe. In the third act we find that Rinaldo has rejected
the love of the enchantress. Armida is inconsolable; she is ashamed of her weakness, and will
not listen to the well-meaning consolations of her attendants. She calls upon the spirit of
Hate, but when he appears she rejects his aid, and still clings desperately to her fatal passion.
The fourth act, which is entirely superfluous, is devoted to the adventures in the enchanted
garden of Ubaldo and a Danish knight, two Crusaders who have set forth with the intention of
rescuing Rinaldo from the clutches of the sorceress. The fifth act takes place in Armida's
palace. Rinaldo's proud spirit has at length been subdued, and he is completely the slave of
the enchantress. The duet between the lovers is of the most bewitching loveliness, and much
of it curiously anticipates the romantic element which was to burst forth in a future generation.
Armida tears herself from Rinaldo's arms, and leaves him to be entertained by a ballet of spirits,
while she transacts some business with the powers below. Ubaldo and the Danish knight now burst
in, and soon bring Rinaldo to a proper frame of mind. He takes a polite farewell of Armida,
who in vain attempts to prevent his going, and is walked off by his two Mentors. Left alone,
Armida calls on her demons to destroy the palace, and the opera ends in wild confusion and tumult.

To say that 'Armide' recalls the romantic grace of 'Paride ed Elena,' is but half the truth.
The lyrical grace of the earlier work is as it were concentrated and condensed in a series
of pictures which for voluptuous beauty surpass anything that had been written before Gluck's
day. Against the background formed by the magical splendour of the enchanted garden, the figure
of Armida stands out in striking relief. The mingled pride and passion of the imperious princess
are drawn with wonderful art. Even while her passion brings her to the feet of her conqueror,
her haughty spirit rebels against her fate. Such weaknesses as the opera contains are principally
attributable to the libretto, which is ill-constructed, and cold and formal in diction. Rinaldo
is rather a colourless person, and the other characters are for the most part merely lay-figures,
though the grim figure of Hate is drawn with extraordinary power. But upon Armida the composer
concentrated the full lens of his genius, and for her he wrote music which satisfies every
requirement of dramatic truth, without losing touch of the lyrical beauty and persuasive passion
which breathes life into soulless clay.

In 'Iphigénie en Tauride,' the last of his great works, which was produced in 1778, Gluck reached
his highest point. Here he seems for the first time thoroughly to fuse and combine the two
elements which are for ever at war in his earlier operas, musical beauty and dramatic truth.
Throughout the score of 'Iphigénie en Tauride' the declamation is as vivid and true as in 'Alceste,'
while the intrinsic loveliness of the music yields not a jot to the passion-charged strains
of 'Armide.' The overture paints the gradual awakening of a tempest, and when the storm is
at its height the curtain rises upon the temple of Diana at Tauris, where Iphigenia, snatched
by the goddess from the knife of the executioner at Aulis, has been placed as high priestess.
The priestesses in chorus beseech the gods to be propitious, and when the fury of the storm
is allayed, Iphigenia recounts her dream of Agamemnon's death, and laments the woes of her
house. She calls upon Diana to put an end to her life, which already has lasted too long. Thoas,
the king of the country, now enters, alarmed by the outcries of the priestesses. He is a prey
to superstitious fears, and willingly listens to the advice of his followers, that the gods
can only be appeased by human blood. A message is now brought that two young strangers have
been cast upon the rock-bound coast, and Thoas at once decides that they shall be the victims.
Orestes and Pylades are now brought in. They refuse to make themselves known, and are bidden
to prepare for death, while the act closes with the savage delight of the Scythians.

The second act is in the prison. Orestes bewails his destiny, and refuses the consolation which
Pylades offers in a noble and famous song. Pylades is torn from his friend's arms by the officers
of the guard, and Orestes, left to himself, after a paroxysm of madness sinks to sleep upon
the prison floor. His eyes are closed, but his brain is a prey to frightful visions. The Furies
surround him with horrible cries and menaces, singing a chorus of indescribable weirdness.
Lastly, the shade of the murdered Clytemnestra passes before him, and he awakes with a shriek
to find his cell empty save for the mournful form of Iphigenia, who has come to question the
stranger as to his origin and the purpose of his visit to Tauris. In broken accents he tells
her--what is new to her ears--the tale of the murder of Agamemnon, and the vengeance taken
upon Clytemnestra by himself; adding, in order to conceal his own identity, that Orestes is
also dead, and that Electra is the sole remnant of the house of Atreus. Iphigenia bursts into
a passionate lament, and the act ends with her offering a solemn libation to the shade of her
brother.

In the third act Iphigenia resolves to free one of the victims, and to send him with a message
to Electra. A sentiment which she cannot explain bids her choose Orestes, but the latter refuses
to save his life at the expense of that of his friend. A contention arises between the two,
which is only decided by Orestes swearing to take his own life if Pylades is sacrificed. The
precious scroll is thereupon entrusted to Pylades, who departs, vowing to return and save his
friend.

In the fourth act Iphigenia is a prey to conflicting emotions. A mysterious sympathy forbids
her to slay the prisoner, yet she tries to steel her heart for the performance of her terrible
task, and calls upon Diana to aid her. Orestes is brought on by the priestesses, and while
urging Iphigenia to deal the blow, blesses her for the pity which stays her hand. Just as the
knife is about to descend, the dying words of Orestes, 'Was it thus thou didst perish in Aulis,
Iphigenia my sister?' bring about the inevitable recognition, and the brother and sister rush
into each other's arms. But Thoas has yet to be reckoned with. He is furious at the interruption
of the sacrifice, and is about to execute summary vengeance upon both Iphigenia and Orestes,
when Pylades returns with an army of Greek youths--whence he obtained them is not explained--and
despatches the tyrant in the nick of time. The opera ends with the appearance of Pallas Athene,
the patroness of Argos, who bids Orestes and his sister return to Greece, carrying with them
the image of Diana, too long disgraced by the barbarous rites of the Scythians.

'Echo et Narcisse,' an opera cast in a somewhat lighter mould, which was produced in 1779,
seems to have failed to please, and 'Iphigénie en Tauride' may be safely taken as the climax
of Gluck's career. It is the happiest example of his peculiar power, and shows more convincingly
than any of its predecessors where the secret of his greatness really lay. He was the first
composer who treated an opera as an integral whole. He was inferior to many of his predecessors,
notably to Handel, in musical science, and even in power of characterisation. But while their
works were often hardly more than strings of detached scenes from which the airs might often
be dissociated without much loss of effect, his operas were constructed upon a principle of
dramatic unity which forbade one link to be taken from the chain without injuring the continuity
of the whole. In purely technical matters, too, his reforms were far-reaching and important.
He was first to make the overture in some sort a reflection of the drama which it preceded,
and he used orchestral effects as a means of expressing the passion of his characters in a
way that had not been dreamed of before. He dismissed the harpsichord from the orchestra, and
strengthened his band with clarinets, an instrument unknown to Handel. His banishment of recitativo
secco, and his restoration of the chorus to its proper place in the drama, were innovations
of vast importance to the history of opera, but the chief strength of the influence which he
exerted upon subsequent music lay in his power of suffusing each of his operas in an atmosphere
special to itself.

CHAPTER III

OPERA BUFFA, OPÉRA COMIQUE, AND SINGSPIEL

PERGOLESI--ROUSSEAU--MONSIGNY--GRÉTRY--

CIMAROSA--HILLER

While Gluck was altering the course of musical history in Vienna, another revolution, less
grand in scope and more gradually accomplished, but scarcely less important in its results,
was being effected in Italy. This was the development of opera buffa, a form of art which was
destined, in Italy at any rate, to become a serious rival to the older institution of opera
seria, and, in the hands of Mozart, to produce masterpieces such as the world had certainly
not known before his day, nor is ever likely to see surpassed. There is some uncertainty about
the actual origin of opera buffa. A musical comedy by Vergilio Mazzocchi and Mario Marazzoli,
entitled 'Chi sofre speri,' was produced in Florence under the patronage of Cardinal Barberini
as early as 1639. The poet Milton was present at this performance, and refers to it in one
of his Epistolae Familiares. In 1657 a theatre was actually built in Florence for the performance
of musical comedies. For some reason, however, it did not prove a success, and after a few
years was compelled to close its doors. After these first experiments there seems to have been
no attempt made to resuscitate opera buffa until the rise of the Neapolitan school in the following
century. The genesis of the southern branch of opera buffa may with certainty be traced to
the intermezzi, or musical interludes, which were introduced into the course of operas and
dramas, probably with the object of relieving the mental strain induced by the effort of following
a long serious performance. The popularity of these intermezzi throws a curious light upon
the character of Italian audiences at that time. We should think it strange if an audience
nowadays refused to sit through 'Hamlet' unless it were diversified by occasional scenes from
'Box and Cox.' As time went on, the proportions and general character of these intermezzi acquired
greater importance, but it was not until the eighteenth century was well advanced that one
of them was promoted to the rank of an independent opera, and, instead of being performed in
scraps between the acts of a tragedy, was given for the first time as a separate work. This
honour was accorded to Pergolesi's 'La Serva Padrona,' in 1734, and the great success which
it met with everywhere soon caused numberless imitations to spring up, so that in a few years
opera buffa in Italy was launched upon a career of triumph.

Founded as it was in avowed imitation of the tragedy of the Greeks, opera had never deigned
to touch modern life at any point. For a long time the subjects of Italian operas were taken
solely from classical legend, and though in time librettists were compelled to have recourse
to the medieval romances, they never ventured out of an antiquity more or less remote. Thus
it is easy to conceive the delight of the music-loving people of Naples when they found that
the opera which they adored could be enjoyed in combination with a mirthful and even farcical
story, interpreted by characters who might have stepped out of one of their own market-places.
But, apart from the freedom and variety of the subjects with which it dealt, the development
of opera buffa gave rise to an art-form which is of the utmost importance to the history of
opera--the concerted finale. Nicolo Logroscino (1700-1763) seems to have been the first composer
who conceived the idea of working up the end of an act to a musical climax by bringing all
his characters together and blending their voices into a musical texture of some elaboration.
Logroscino wrote only in the Neapolitan dialect, and his works had little success beyond the
limits of his own province; but his invention was quickly adopted by all writers of opera buffa,
and soon became an important factor in the development of the art. Later composers elaborated
his idea by extending the finale to more than one movement, and by varying the key-colour.
Finally, but not until after many years, it was introduced into opera seria, when it gave birth
to the idea of elaborate trios and quartets, which were afterwards to play so important a part
in its development. Logroscino's reputation was chiefly local, but the works of Pergolesi (1710-1736)
and Jomelli (1714-1774) made the Neapolitan school famous throughout Europe. Both these composers
are now best known by their sacred works, but during their lives their operas attained an extraordinary
degree of popularity. Both succeeded equally in comedy and tragedy, but Jomelli's operas are
now forgotten, while Pergolesi is known only by his delightful intermezzo 'La Serva Padrona,'
This diverting little piece tells of the schemes of the chambermaid, Serpina, to win the hand
of her master, Pandolfo. She is helped by Scapin, the valet, who, disguised as a captain, makes
violent love to her, and piques the old gentleman into proposing, almost against his will.
'La Serva Padrona' made the tour of Europe, and was received everywhere with tumultuous applause.
In Paris it was performed in 1750, and may be said at once to have founded the school of French
opéra comique. Rousseau extolled its beauty as a protest against the arid declamation of the
school of Lulli, and it was the subject of one of the bitterest dissensions ever known in the
history of music. But the 'Guerre des Bouffons,' as the struggle was called, proved one thing,
which had already been satisfactorily decided in Italy, namely, that there was plenty of room
in the world for serious and comic opera at the same time.

There had been a kind of opéra comique in France for many years, a species of musical pantomime
which was very popular at the fairs of St. Laurent and St. Gervais. This form of entertainment
scarcely came within the province of art, but it served as a starting-point for the history
of opéra comique, which was afterwards so brilliant. The success of the Italian company which
performed the comic operas of Pergolesi, Jomelli, and others, fired the French composers to
emulation, and in 1753 the first French opéra comique, in the strict sense of the word, 'Le
Devin du Village,' by the great Rousseau, was performed at the Académie de Musique. Musically
the work is feeble and characterless, but the contrast which it offered to the stiff and serious
works of the tragic composers made it popular. Whatever its faults may be, it is simple and
natural, and its tender little melodies fell pleasantly upon ears too well accustomed to the
pomposities of Rameau and his school. At first lovers of opéra comique in Paris had to subsist
chiefly upon translations from the Italian; but in 1755 'Ninette à la Cour,' a dainty little
work written by a Neapolitan composer, Duni, to a French libretto, gained a great success.
Soon afterwards, Monsigny, a composer who may well be called the father of opéra comique, produced
his first work, and started upon a career of success which extended into the next century.

The early days of opéra comique in Paris were distracted by the jealousy existing between the
French and Italian schools, but in 1762 peace was made between the rival factions, and by process
of fusion the two became one. With the opening of the new Théâtre de l'Opéra Comique--the Salle
Favart, as it was then called--there began a new and brilliant period for the history of French
art. It is a significant fact, and one which goes far to prove how closely the foundation of
opéra comique was connected with a revolt against the boredom of grand opera, that the most
successful composers in the new genre were those who were actually innocent of any musical
training whatsoever. Monsigny (1729-1817) is a particularly striking instance of natural genius
triumphing in spite of a defective education. Nothing can exceed the thinness and poverty of
his scores, or their lack of all real musical interest; yet, by the sureness of his natural
instinct for the stage, he succeeded in writing music which still moves us as much by its brilliant
gaiety as by its tender pathos. 'Le Déserteur,' his most famous work, is a touching little
story of a soldier who deserts in a fit of jealousy, and is condemned to be shot, but is saved
by his sweetheart, who begs his pardon from the king. Much of the music is almost childish
in its naïveté, but there is real pathos in the famous air 'Adieu, Louise,' and some of the
lighter scenes in the opera are touched off very happily.

The musical education of Grétry (1741-1831) was perhaps more elaborate than that of Monsigny,
but it fell very far short of profundity. His music excels in grace and humour, and he rarely
treated serious subjects with success. Such works as 'Le Tableau Parlant,' 'Les Deux Avares,'
and 'L'Amant Jaloux' are models of lightness and brilliancy, whatever may be thought of their
musicianship. 'Richard Coeur de Lion' is the one instance of Grétry having successfully attempted
a loftier theme, and it remains his masterpiece. The scene is laid at the castle of Dürrenstein
in Austria, where Richard lies imprisoned, and deals with the efforts of his faithful minstrel
Blondel to rescue him. In this work Grétry adapted his style to his subject with wonderful
versatility. Much of the music is noble and dignified in style, and Blondel's air in particular,
'O Richard, O mon roi,' has a masculine vigour which is rarely found in the composer's work.
But as a rule Grétry is happiest in his delicate little pastorals and fantastic comedies, and,
for all their slightness, his works bear the test of revival better than those of many of his
more learned contemporaries. Philidor (1726-1797) was almost more famous as a chess-player
than as a composer. He had the advantage of a sound musical education under Campra, one of
the predecessors of Rameau, and his music has far more solid qualities than that of Grétry
or Monsigny. His treatment of the orchestra, too, was more scientific than that of his contemporaries,
but he had little gift of melody, and he was deficient in dramatic instinct. He often visited
England, and ended by dying in London. One of the best of his works, 'Tom Jones,' was written
upon an English subject. Philidor was popular in his day, but his works have rarely been heard
by the present generation.

With Grétry the first period of opéra comique may be said to close; indeed, the taste of French
audiences had begun to change some years before the close of the eighteenth century. The mighty
wave of the Revolution swept away the idle gallantries of the sham pastoral, while Ossian newly
discovered and Shakespeare newly translated opened the eyes of cultivated Frenchmen to the
possibilities of poetry and romance. At the same time, the works of Haydn and Mozart, which
had already crossed the frontier, disturbed preconceived notions about the limits of orchestral
colouring, and made the thin little scores of Grétry and his contemporaries seem doubly jejune.
The change in public taste was gradual, but none the less certain. The opening years of the
nineteenth century saw a singular evolution, if not revolution, in the history of opéra comique.

Meanwhile opera in Italy was pursuing its triumphant course. The introduction of the finale
brought the two great divisions of opera into closer connection, and most of the great composers
of this period succeeded as well in opera buffa as in opera seria. The impetus given to the
progress of the art by the brilliant Neapolitan school was ably sustained by such composers
as Nicolo Piccinni (1728-1800), a composer who is now known principally to fame as the unsuccessful
rival brought forward by the Italian party in Paris in the year 1776 in the vain hope of crushing
Gluck. Piccinni sinks into insignificance by the side of Gluck, but he was nevertheless an
able composer, and certainly the leading representative of the Italian school at the time.
He did much to develop the concerted finale, which before his day had been used with caution,
not to say timidity, and was so constant in his devotion to the loftiest ideal of art that
he died in poverty and starvation. Cimarosa (1749-1801) is the brightest name of the next generation.
He shone particularly in comedy. His 'Gli Orazi e Curiazi,' which moved his contemporaries
to tears, is now forgotten, but 'Il Matrimonio Segreto' still delights us with its racy humour
and delicate melody. The story is simplicity itself, but the situations are amusing in themselves,
and are led up to with no little adroitness, Paolino, a young lawyer, has secretly married
Carolina, the daughter of Geronimo, a rich and avaricious merchant. In order to smooth away
the difficulties which must arise when the inevitable discovery of the marriage takes place,
he tries to secure a rich friend of his own, Count Robinson, for Geronimo's other daughter,
Elisetta. Unfortunately Robinson prefers Carolina, and proposes himself as son-in-law to Geronimo,
who is of course delighted that his daughter should have secured so unexceptionable a parti,
while the horrified Paolino discovers to his great dissatisfaction that the elderly Fidalma,
Geronimo's sister, has cast languishing eyes upon himself. There is nothing for the young couple
but flight, but unfortunately as they are making their escape they are discovered, and their
secret is soon extorted. Geronimo's wrath is tremendous, but in the end matters are satisfactorily
arranged, and the amiable Robinson after all expresses himself content with the charms of Elisetta.
'Il Matrimonio Segreto' was produced at Vienna in 1792, and proved so very much to the taste
of the Emperor Leopold, who was present at the performance, that he gave all the singers and
musicians a magnificent supper, and then insisted upon their performing the opera again from
beginning to end. Cimarosa was a prolific writer, the number of his operas reaching the formidable
total of seventy-six; but, save for 'Il Matrimonio Segreto,' they have all been consigned to
oblivion. Although he was born only seven years before Mozart, and actually survived him for
ten years, he belongs entirely to the earlier school of opera buffa. His talent is thoroughly
Italian, untouched by German influence, and he excels in portraying the gay superficiality
of the Italian character without attempting to dive far below the surface.

Even more prolific than Cimarosa was Paisiello (1741-1815), a composer whose works, though
immensely popular in their day, did not possess individuality enough to defy the ravages of
time. Paisiello deserves to be remembered as the first man to write an opera on the tale of
'Il Barbiere di Siviglia.' This work, though coldly received when it was first performed, ended
by establishing so firm a hold upon the affections of the Italian public, that when Rossini
tried to produce his opera on the same subject, the Romans refused to give it a hearing.

Paer (1771-1839) belongs chronologically to the next generation, but musically he has more
in common with Paisiello than with Rossini. His principal claim to immortality rests upon the
fact that a performance of his opera 'Eleonora' inspired Beethoven with the idea of writing
'Fidelio'; but although his serious efforts are comparatively worthless, many of his comic
operas are exceedingly bright and attractive. 'Le Maître de Chapelle,' which was written to
a French libretto, is still performed with tolerable frequency in Paris.

It is hardly likely that the whirligig of time will ever bring Paisiello and his contemporaries
into popularity again in England, but in Italy there has been of late years a remarkable revival
of interest in the works of the eighteenth century. Some years ago the Argentina Theatre in
Rome devoted its winter season almost entirely to reproductions of the works of this school.
Many of these old-world little operas, whose very names had been forgotten, were received most
cordially, some of them--Paisiello's 'Scuffiara raggiratrice,' for instance--with genuine enthusiasm.

Wars and rumours of wars stunted musical development of all kinds in Germany during the earlier
years of the eighteenth century. After the death of Keiser in 1739, the glory departed from
Hamburg, and opera seems to have lain under a cloud until the advent of Johann Adam Hiller
(1728-1804), the inventor of the Singspiel. Miller's Singspiele were vaudevilles of a simple
and humorous description interspersed with music, occasionally concerted numbers of a very
simple description, but more often songs derived directly from the traditions of the German
Lied. These operettas were very popular, as the frequent editions of them which were called
for, prove. Yet, in spite of their success, it was felt by many of the composers who imitated
him that the combination of dialogue and music was inartistic, and Johann Friedrich Reichardt
(1752-1814) attempted to solve the difficulty by relegating the music to a merely incidental
position and conducting all the action of the piece by means of the dialogue. Nevertheless
the older form of the Singspiel retained its popularity, and, although founded upon incorrect
æsthetic principles--for no art, however ingenious, can fuse the convention of speech and the
convention of song into an harmonious whole--was the means in later times of giving to the
world, in 'Die Zauberflöte' and 'Fidelio,' nobler music than had yet been consecrated to the
service of the stage.

CHAPTER IV

MOZART

Although Mozart's (1756-1791) earliest years were passed at Salzburg, the musical influences
which surrounded his cradle were mainly Italian. Salzburg imitated Vienna, and Vienna, in spite
of Gluck, was still Italian in its sympathies, so far at any rate as opera seria was concerned.
Mozart wrote his first opera, 'La Finta Semplice,' for Vienna, when he was twelve years old.
It would have been performed in 1768 but for the intrigues of jealous rivals and the knavery
of an impresario. It was not actually produced until the following year, when the Archbishop
of Salzburg arranged a performance of it in his own city to console his little protégé for
his disappointment at Vienna. It is of course an extraordinary work when the composer's age
is taken into account, but intrinsically differs little from the thousand and one comic operas
of the period, Mozart's first German opera, 'Bastien und Bastienne,' though written after 'La
Finta Semplice,' was performed before it. It was given in 1768 in a private theatre belonging
to Dr. Anton Meszmer, a rich Viennese bourgeois. It follows the lines of Miller's Singspiele
closely, but shows more originality, especially in the orchestration, than 'La Finta Semplice.'
The plot of the little work is an imitation of Rousseau's 'Devin du Village,' telling of the
quarrels of a rustic couple, and their reconciliation through the good offices of a travelling
conjurer. It was significant that the Italian and German schools should be respectively represented
in the two infant works of the man who was afterwards to fuse the special beauties of each
in works of immortal loveliness. Mozart's next four operas were, for the most part, hastily
written--'Mitridate, Re di Ponto' (1770) and 'Lucio Silla' (1775) for Milan, "La Finta Giardiniera'
(1775) for Munich, and 'Il Re Pastore' (1775) for Salzburg. They adhere pretty closely to the
conventional forms of the day, and, in spite of the beauty of many of the airs, can scarcely
be said to contain much evidence of Mozart's incomparable genius. In 1778 the young composer
visited Paris, where he stayed for several months. This period may be looked upon as the turning-point
in his operatic career. In Paris he heard the operas of Gluck and Grétry, besides those of
the Italian composers, such as Piccinni and Sacchini, whose best works were written for the
French stage. He studied their scores carefully, and from them he learnt the principles of
orchestration, which he was afterwards to turn to such account in 'Don Giovanni' and 'Die Zauberflöte,'
The result of his studies was plainly visible in the first work which he produced after his
return to Germany, 'Idomeneo.' This was written for the Court Theatre at Munich, and was performed
for the first time on the 29th of January, 1781. The libretto, by the Abbé Giambattista Varesco,
was modelled upon an earlier French work which had already been set to music by Campra. Idomeneo,
King of Crete, on his way home from the siege of Troy, is overtaken by a terrific storm. In
despair of his life, he vows that, should he reach the shore alive, he will sacrifice the first
human being he meets to Neptune. This proves to be his son Idamante, who has been reigning
in his stead during his absence. When he finds out who the victim is--for at first he does
not recognise him--he tries to evade his vow by sending Idamante away to foreign lands. Electra
the daughter of Agamemnon, driven from her country after the murder of her mother, has taken
refuge in Crete, and Idomeneo bids his son return with her to Argos, and ascend the throne
of the Atreidæ. Idamante loves Ilia, the daughter of Priam, who has been sent to Crete some
time before as a prisoner from Troy, and is loved by her in return. Nevertheless he bows to
his father's will, and is preparing to embark with Electra, when a storm arises, and a frightful
sea monster issues from the waves and proceeds to devastate the land. The terror-stricken people
demand that the victim shall be produced, and Idomeneo is compelled to confess that he has
doomed his son to destruction. All are overcome with horror, but the priests begin to prepare
for the sacrifice. Suddenly cries of joy are heard, and Idamante, who has slain the monster
single-handed, is brought in by the priests and people. He is ready to die, and his father
is preparing to strike the fatal blow, when Ilia rushes in and entreats to be allowed to die
in his place. The lovers are still pleading anxiously with each other when a subterranean noise
is heard, the statue of Neptune rocks, and a solemn voice pronounces the will of the gods in
majestic accents. Idomeneo is to renounce the throne, and Idamante is to marry Ilia and reign
in his stead. Every one except Electra is vastly relieved, and the opera ends with dances and
rejoicings.

The music of 'Idomeneo' is cast for the most part in Italian form, though the influence of
Gluck is obvious in many points, particularly in the scene of the oracle. Here we find Mozart
in his maturity for the first time; he has become a man, and put away childish things. In two
points 'Idomeneo' is superior to any opera that had previously been written--in the concerted
music (the choruses as well as the trios and quartets), and in the instrumentation. The chorus
is promoted from the part which it usually plays in Gluck, that of a passive spectator. It
joins in the drama, and takes an active part in the development of the plot, and the music
which it is called upon to sing is often finer and more truly dramatic than that allotted to
the solo singers. But the chorus had already been used effectively by Gluck and other composers;
it is in his solo concerted music that Mozart forges ahead of all possible rivals. The power
which he shows of contrasting the conflicting emotions of his characters in elaborate concerted
movements was something really new to the stage. The one quartet in Handel's 'Radamisto' and
the one trio in his 'Alcina,' magnificent as they are, are too exceptional in their occurrence
to be quoted as instances, while the attempts of Rameau and his followers to impose dramatic
significance into their concerted music, though technically interesting, do but faintly foreshadow
the glory of Mozart. The orchestration of 'Idomeneo,' too, is something of the nature of a
revelation. At Munich, Mozart had at his disposal an excellent and well-trained band, and this
may go far to explain the elaborate care which he bestowed upon the instrumental side of his
opera. The colouring of the score is sublime in conception and brilliant in detail. Even now
it well repays the closest and most intimate study. 'Idomeneo' is practically the foundation
of all modern orchestration.

Mozart's next work was very different both in scope and execution. It has already been pointed
out that the two first works which the composer, as a child, wrote for the stage, followed
respectively the Italian and German models. Similarly, he signalised his arrival at the full
maturity of his powers by producing an Italian and German masterpiece side by side. 'Die Entführung
aus dem Serail' was written for the Court Theatre at Vienna, in response to a special command
of the Emperor Joseph II. It was produced on July 13, 1782. The original libretto was the work
of C.F. Bretzner, but Mozart introduced so many alterations and improvements into the fabric
of the story that, as it stands, much of it is practically his own work.

The Pasha Selim has carried off a Christian damsel named Constanze, whom he keeps in close
confinement in his seraglio, in the hope that she may consent to be his wife. Belmont, Constanze's
lover, has traced her to the Pasha's country house with the assistance of Pedrillo, a former
servant of his own, now the Pasha's slave and chief gardener. Belmont's attempts to enter the
house are frustrated by Osmin, the surly major-domo. At last, however, through the good offices
of Pedrillo, he contrives to gain admission in the character of an architect. Osmin has a special
motive for disliking Pedrillo, who has forestalled him in the affections of Blondchen, Constanze's
maid; nevertheless he is beguiled by the wily servant into a drinking bout, and quieted with
a harmless narcotic. This gives the lovers an opportunity for an interview, in which the details
of their flight are arranged. The next night they make their escape. Belmont gets off safely
with Constanze, but Pedrillo and Blondchen are seen by Osmin before they are clear of the house.
The hue and cry is raised, and both couples are caught and brought back. They are all condemned
to death, but the soft-hearted Pasha is so much overcome by their fidelity and self-sacrifice
that he pardons them and sends them away in happiness.

Much of 'Die Entführung' is so thoroughly and characteristically German, that at first sight
it may be thought surprising that it should have succeeded so well in a city like Vienna, which
was inclined to look upon the Singspiel as a barbarian product of Northern Germany. But there
is a reason for this, and it is one which goes to the root of the whole question of comic opera.
Mozart saw that Italian comic operas often succeeded in spite of miserable libretti, because
the entire interest was concentrated upon the music, and all the rest was forgotten. The German
Singspiel writers made the mistake of letting their music be, for the most part, purely incidental,
and conducting all the dramatic part of their plots by dialogue. Mozart borrowed the underlying
idea of the opera buffa, applied it to the form of the Singspiel, which he kept intact, and
produced a work which succeeded in revolutionising the history of German opera. But, apart
from the question of form, the music of 'Die Entführung' is in itself fine enough to be the
foundation even of so imposing a structure as modern German music. The orchestral forces at
Mozart's disposal were on a smaller scale than at Munich; but though less elaborate than that
of 'Idomeneo,' the score of 'Die Entführung' is full of the tenderest and purest imagination.
But the real importance of the work lies in the vivid power of characterisation, which Mozart
here reveals for the first time in full maturity. It is by the extraordinary development of
this quality that he transcends all other writers for the stage before or since. It is no exaggeration
to say that Mozart's music reveals the inmost soul of the characters of his opera as plainly
as if they were discussed upon a printed page. In his later works the opportunities given him
of proving this magical power were more frequent and better. The libretto of 'Die Entführung'
is a poor affair at best, but, considering the materials with which he had to work, Mozart
never accomplished truer or more delicate work than in the music of Belmont and Constanze,
of Pedrillo, and greatest of all, of Osmin.

In 1786 Mozart wrote the music to a foolish little one-act comedy entitled 'Der Schauspieldirektor,'
describing the struggles of two rival singers for an engagement. A sparkling overture and a
genuinely comic trio are the best numbers of the score; but the libretto gave Mozart little
opportunity of exercising his peculiar talents. Since his original production various attempts
have been made to fit 'Der Schauspieldirektor' with new and more effective libretti, but in
no case has its performance attained any real success.

For the sake of completeness it may be well to mention the existence of a comic opera entitled
'L'Oie du Caïre,' which is an exceedingly clever combination of the fragments left by Mozart
of two unfinished operas, 'L'Oca del Cairo' and 'Lo Sposo Deluso,' fitted to a new and original
libretto by the late M. Victor Wilder. In its modern form, this little opera, in which a lover
is introduced into his mistress's garden inside an enormous goose, has been successfully performed
both in France and England.

Not even the success of 'Die Entführung' could permanently establish German opera in Vienna.
The musical sympathies of the aristocracy were entirely Italian, and Mozart had to bow to expediency.
His next work, 'Le Nozze de Figaro' (1786), was written to an adaptation of Beaumarchais's
famous comedy 'Le Mariage de Figaro,' which had been produced in Paris a few years before.
Da Ponte, the librettist, wisely omitted all the political references, which contributed so
much to the popularity of the original play, and left only a bustling comedy of intrigue, not
perhaps very moral in tendency, but full of amusing incident and unflagging in spirit. It speaks
volumes for the ingenuity of the librettist that though the imbroglio is often exceedingly
complicated, no one feels the least difficulty in following every detail of it on the stage,
though it is by no means easy to give a clear and comprehensive account of all the ramifications
of the plot.

The scene is laid at the country-house of Count Almaviva. Figaro, the Count's valet, and Susanna,
the Countess's maid, are to be married that day; but Figaro, who is well aware that the Count
has a penchant for his fiancée, is on his guard against machinations in that quarter. Enter
the page Cherubino, an ardent youth who is devotedly attached to his mistress. He has been
caught by the Count flirting with Barberina, the gardener's daughter, and promptly dismissed
from his service, and now he comes to Susanna to entreat her to intercede for him with the
Countess. While the two are talking they hear the Count approaching, and Susanna hastily hides
Cherubino behind a large arm-chair. The Count comes to offer Susanna a dowry if she will consent
to meet him that evening, but she will have nothing to say to him. Basilio, the music-master,
now enters, and the Count has only just time to slip behind Cherubino's arm-chair, while the
page creeps round to the front of it, and is covered by Susanna with a cloak. Basilio, while
repeating the Count's proposals, refers to Cherubino's passion for the Countess. This arouses
the Count, who comes forward in a fury, orders the immediate dismissal of the page, and by
the merest accident discovers the unlucky youth ensconced in the arm-chair. As Cherubino has
heard every word of the interview, the first thing to do is to get him out of the way. The
Count therefore presents him with a commission in his own regiment, and bids him pack off to
Seville post-haste. Figaro now appears with all the villagers in holiday attire to ask the
Count to honour his marriage by giving the bride away. The Count cannot refuse, but postpones
the ceremony for a few hours in the hope of gaining time to prosecute his suit. Meanwhile the
Countess, Susanna, and Figaro are maturing a plot of their own to discomfit the Count and bring
him back to the feet of his wife. Figaro writes an anonymous letter to the Count, telling him
that the Countess has made an assignation with a stranger for that evening in the garden, hoping
by this means to arouse his jealousy and divert his mind from the wedding. He assures him also
of Susanna's intention to keep her appointment in the garden, intending that Cherubino, who
has been allowed to put off his departure, shall be dressed up as a girl and take Susanna's
place at the interview. The page comes to the Countess's room to be dressed, when suddenly
the conspirators hear the Count approaching. Cherubino is hastily locked in an inner room,
while Susanna slips Into an alcove. While the Count is plying his wife with angry questions,
Cherubino clumsily knocks over a chair. The Count hears the noise, and quickly jumps to the
conclusion that the page is hiding in the inner room. The Countess denies everything and refuses
to give up the key, whereupon the Count drags her off with him to get an axe to break in the
door. Meanwhile Susanna liberates Cherubino, and takes his place in the inner room, while the
latter escapes by jumping down into the garden. When the Count finally opens the door and discovers
only Susanna within, his rage is turned to mortification, and he is forced to sue for pardon.
The Countess is triumphant, but a change is given to the position of affairs by the appearance
of Antonio, the gardener, who comes to complain that his flowers have been destroyed by someone
jumping on them from the window. The Count's jealous fears are returning, but Figaro allays
them by declaring that he is the culprit, and that he made his escape by the window in order
to avoid the Count's anger. Antonio then produces a paper which he found dropped among the
flowers. This proves to be Cherubino's commission. Once more the secret is nearly out, but
Figaro saves the situation by declaring that the page gave it to him to get the seal affixed.
The Countess and Susanna are beginning to congratulate themselves on their escape, when another
diversion is created by the entrance of Marcellina, the Countess's old duenna, and Bartolo,
her ex-guardian. Marcellina has received a promise in writing from Figaro that he will marry
her if he fails to pay a sum of money which he owes her by a certain date, and she comes to
claim her bridegroom. The Count is delighted at this new development, and promises Marcellina
that she shall get her rights.

The second act (according to the original arrangement) is mainly devoted to clearing up the
various difficulties. Figaro turns out to be the long-lost son of Marcellina and Bartolo, so
the great impediment to his marriage is effectually removed, and by the happy plan of a disguise
the Countess takes Susanna's place at the assignation, and receives the ardent declarations
of her husband. When the Count discovers his mistake he is thoroughly ashamed of himself, and
his vows of amendment bring the piece to a happy conclusion.

It seems hardly possible to write critically of the music of 'Le Nozze di Figaro,' Mozart had
in a superabundant degree that power which is characteristic of our greatest novelists, of
infusing the breath of life into his characters. We rise from seeing a performance of 'Le Nozze,'
with no consciousness of the art employed, but with a feeling of having assisted in an actual
scene in real life. It is not until afterwards that the knowledge is forced upon us that this
convincing presentment of nature is the result of a combination of the purest inspiration of
genius with the highest development of art. Mozart knew everything that was to be known about
music, and 'Le Nozze di Figaro,' in spite of its supreme and unapproachable beauty, is really
only the legitimate outcome of two centuries of steady development. Perhaps the most striking
feature of the work is the absolute consistency of the whole. In spite of the art with which
the composer has Individualised his characters, there is no clashing between the different
types of music allotted to each. As for the music itself, if the exuberant youthfulness of
'Die Entführung' has been toned down to a serener flow of courtliness, we are compensated for
the loss by the absence of the mere bravura which disfigures many of the airs in the earlier
work. The dominant characteristic of the music is that wise and tender sympathy with the follies
and frailties of mankind, which moves us with a deeper pathos than the most terrific tragedy
ever penned. It is perhaps the highest achievement of the all-embracing genius of Mozart that
he made an artificial comedy of intrigue, which is trivial when it is not squalid, into one
of the great music dramas of the world.

Mozart's next work, 'Don Giovanni' (October 29, 1787), was written for Prague, a city which
had always shown him more real appreciation than Vienna. It was adapted by Da Ponte from a
Spanish tale which had already been utilised by Molière. Although, so far as incident goes,
it is not perhaps an ideal libretto, it certainly contains many of the elements of success.
The characters are strongly marked and distinct, and the supernatural part of the story, which
appealed particularly to Mozart's imagination and indeed determined him to undertake the opera,
is managed with consummate skill.

Don Giovanni, a licentious Spanish nobleman, who is attracted by the charms of Donna Anna,
the daughter of the Commandant of Seville, breaks into her palace under cover of night, in
the hope of making her his own. She resists him and calls for help. In the struggle which ensues
the Commandant is killed by Don Giovanni, who escapes unrecognised. Donna Elvira, his deserted
wife, has pursued him to Seville, but he employs his servant Leporello to occupy her attention
while he pays court to Zerlina, a peasant girl, who is about to marry an honest clodhopper
named Masetto. Donna Anna now recognises Don Giovanni as her father's assassin, and communicates
her discovery to her lover, Don Ottavio; Elvira joins them, and the three vow vengeance against
the libertine. Don Giovanni gives a ball in honour of Zerlina's marriage, and in the course
of the festivities seizes an opportunity of trying to seduce her. He is only stopped by the
interference of Anna, Elvira, and Ottavio, who have made their way into his palace in masks
and dominoes. In the next act the vengeance of the three conspirators appears to hang fire
a little, for Don Giovanni is still pursuing his vicious courses, and employing Leporello to
beguile the too trustful Elvira. After various escapades he finds himself before the statue
of the murdered Commandant. He jokingly invites his old antagonist to sup with him, an invitation
which the statue, to his intense surprise, hastens to accept. Leporello and his master return
to prepare for the entertainment of the evening. When the merriment is at its height, a heavy
step is heard in the corridor, and the marble man enters. Don Giovanni is still undaunted,
and even when his terrible visitor offers him the choice between repentance and damnation,
yields not a jot of his pride and insolence. Finally the statue grasps him by the hand and
drags him down, amid flames and earthquakes, to eternal torment.

The taste of Mozart's time would not permit the drama to finish here. All the other characters
have to assemble once more. Leporello gives them an animated description of his master's destruction,
and they proceed to draw a most edifying moral from the doom of the sinner. The music to this
finale is of matchless beauty and interest, but modern sentiment will not hear of so grievous
an anti-climax, and the opera now usually ends with Don Giovanni's disappearance.

The music of 'Don Giovanni' has so often been discussed, that brief reference to its more salient
features will be all that is necessary. Gounod has written of it: 'The score of "Don Giovanni"
has influenced my life like a revelation. It stands in my thoughts as an incarnation of dramatic
and musical impeccability,' and lesser men will be content to echo his words. The plot is less
dramatically coherent than that of 'Le Nozze di Figaro,' but it ranges over a far wider gamut
of human feeling. From the comic rascality of Leporello to the unearthly terrors of the closing
scene is a vast step, but Mozart is equally at home in both. His incomparable art of characterisation
is here displayed in even more consummate perfection than in the earlier work. The masterly
way in which he differentiates the natures of his three soprani--Anna, a type of noble purity;
Elvira, a loving and long-suffering woman, alternating between jealous indignation and voluptuous
tenderness; and Zerlina, a model of rustic coquetry--may especially be remarked, but all the
characters are treated with the same profound knowledge of life and human nature. Even in his
most complicated concerted pieces he never loses grip of the idiosyncrasies of his characters,
and in the most piteous and tragic situations he never relinquishes for a moment his pure ideal
of intrinsic musical beauty. If there be such a thing as immortality for any work of art, it
must surely be conceded to 'Don Giovanni.'

'Così fan tutte,' his next work, was produced at Vienna in January, 1790. It has never been
so successful as its two predecessors, chiefly on account of its libretto, which, though a
brisk little comedy of intrigue, is almost too slight to bear a musical setting. The plot turns
upon a wager laid by two young officers with an old cynic of their acquaintance to prove the
constancy of their respective sweethearts. After a touching leave-taking they return disguised
as Albanians and proceed to make violent love each one to the other's fiancée. The ladies at
first resist the ardent strangers, but end by giving way, and the last scene shows their repentance
and humiliation when they discover that the too attractive foreigners are their own lovers
after all. There is much delightful music in the work, and it is greatly to be regretted that
it should have been so completely cast into the shade by 'Le Nozze di Figaro,'

Mozart's next opera, 'La Clemenza di Tito,' was hastily written, while he was suffering from
the illness which in the end proved fatal. The libretto was an adaptation of an earlier work
by Metastasio. Cold and formal, and almost totally devoid of dramatic interest, it naturally
failed to inspire the composer. The form in which it was cast compelled him to return to the
conventions of opera seria, from which he had long escaped, and altogether, as an able critic
remarked at the time, the work might rather be taken for the first attempt of budding talent
than for the product of a mature mind. The story deals with the plotting of Vitellia, the daughter
of the deposed Vitellius, to overthrow the Emperor Titus. She persuades her lover Sextus to
conspire against his friend, and he succeeds in setting the Capitol on fire. Titus, however,
escapes by means of a disguise, and not only pardons all the conspirators, but rewards Vitellia
with his hand. The opera was produced at Prague on the 6th of September, 1791, and the cold
reception which it experienced did much to embitter the closing years of Mozart's life.

'Die Zauberflöte,' his last work, was written before 'La Clemenza di Tito,' though not actually
produced until September 30, 1791. The libretto, which was the work of Emanuel Schikaneder,
is surely the most extraordinary that ever mortal composer was called upon to set.

At the opening of the opera, the Prince Tamino rushes in, pursued by a monstrous serpent, and
sinks exhausted on the steps of a temple, from which three ladies issue in the nick of time
and despatch the serpent with their silver spears. They give Tamino a portrait of Pamina, the
daughter of their mistress, the Queen of Night, which immediately inspires him with passionate
devotion. He is informed that Pamina has been stolen by Sarastro, the high-priest of Isis,
and imprisoned by him in his palace. He vows to rescue her, and for that purpose is presented
by the ladies with a magic flute, which will keep him safe in every danger, while Papageno,
a bird-catcher, who has been assigned to him as companion, receives a glockenspiel. Three genii
are summoned to guide them, and the two champions thereupon proceed to Sarastro's palace. Tamino
is refused admittance by the doorkeeper, but Papageno in some unexplained way contrives to
get in, and persuades Pamina to escape with him. They fly, but are recaptured by Monostatos,
a Moor, who has been appointed to keep watch over Pamina. Sarastro now appears, condemns Monostatos
to the bastinado, and decrees that the two lovers shall undergo a period of probation in the
sanctuary. In the second act the ordeal of silence is imposed upon Tamino. Pamina cannot understand
his apparent coldness, and is inclined to listen to the counsels of her mother, who tries to
induce her to murder Sarastro. The priest, however, convinces her of his beneficent intentions.
The lovers go through the ordeals of fire and water successfully, and are happily married.
The Queen of Night and her dark kingdom perish everlastingly, and the reign of peace and wisdom
is universally established. The humours of Papageno in his search for a wife have nothing to
do with the principal interest of the plot, but they serve as an acceptable contrast to the
more serious scenes of the opera.

The libretto of the 'Die Zauberflöte' is usually spoken of as the climax of conceivable inanity,
but the explanation of many of its absurdities seems to lie in the fact that it is an allegorical
illustration of the struggles and final triumph of Freemasonry. Both Mozart and Schikaneder
were Freemasons, and 'Die Zauberflöte' is in a sense a manifesto of their belief. Freemasonry
in the opera is represented by the mysteries of Isis, over which the high-priest Sarastro presides.
The Queen of Night is Maria Theresa, a sworn opponent of Freemasonry, who interdicted its practice
throughout her dominions, and broke up the Lodges with armed force. Tamino may be intended
for the Emperor Joseph II., who, though not a Freemason himself as his father was, openly protected
the brotherhood; and we may look upon Pamina as the representative of the Austrian people.
The name of Monostatos seems to be connected with monasticism, and may be intended to typify
the clerical party, which, though outwardly on friendly terms with Freemasonry, seems in reality
to have been bent upon its destruction. Papageno and his wife Papagena are excellent representatives
of the light-hearted and pleasure-loving population of Vienna. It is difficult to make any
explanation fit the story very perfectly, but the suggestion of Freemasonry is enough to acquit
Mozart of having allied his music to mere balderdash; while, behind the Masonic business, the
discerning hearer will have no difficulty in distinguishing the shadowy outlines of another
and a far nobler allegory, the ascent of the human soul, purified by suffering and love, to
the highest wisdom. It was this, no doubt, that compelled Goethe's often expressed admiration,
and even tempted him to write a sequel to Schikaneder's libretto. 'Die Zauberflöte' is in form
a Singsgiel--that is to say, the music is interspersed with spoken dialogue--but there the
resemblance to Hiller's creations ceases. From the magnificent fugue in the overture to the
majestic choral finale, the music is an astonishing combination of divinely beautiful melody
with marvels of contrapuntal skill. Perhaps the most surprising part of 'Die Zauberflöte' is
the extraordinary ease and certainty with which Mozart manipulates what is practically a new
form of art. Nursed as he had been in the traditions of Italian opera, it would not have been
strange if he had not been able to shake off the influences of his youth. Yet 'Die Zauberflöte'
owes but little to any Italian predecessor. It is German to the core. We may be able to point
to passages which are a development of something occurring in the composer's earlier works,
such as 'Die Entführung,' but there is hardly anything in the score of 'Die Zauberflöte' which
suggests an external influence. Its position in the world of music is ably summarised by Jahn:
'If in his Italian operas Mozart assimilated the traditions of a long period of development
and in some sense put the finishing stroke to it, with "Die Zauberflöte" he treads on the threshold
of the future, and unlocks for his country the sacred treasure of national art.'

Of Mozart's work as a whole, it is impossible to speak save in terms which seem exaggerated.
His influence upon subsequent composers cannot be over-estimated. Without him, Rossini and
modern Italian opera, Weber and modern German, Gounod and modern French, would have been impossible.
It may be conceded that the form of his operas, with the alternation of airs, concerted pieces
and recitativo secco, may conceivably strike the ears of the uneducated as old-fashioned, but
the feelings of musicians may best be summed up in the word of Gounod: 'O Mozart, divin Mozart!
Qu'il faut peu te comprendre pour ne pas t'adorer! Toi, la vérité constante! Toi, la beauté
parfaite! Toi, le charme inépuisable! Toi, toujours profond et toujours limpide! Toi, l'humanité
complète et la simplicité de l'enfant! Toi, qui as tout ressenti, et tout exprimé dans une
langue musicale qu'on n'a jamais surpassée et qu'on ne surpassera jamais.'

CHAPTER V

THE CLOSE OF THE CLASSICAL PERIOD

MÉHUL--CHERUBINI--SPONTINI--BEETHOVEN--BOIELDIEU

Mozart and Gluck, each in his respective sphere, carried opera to a point which seemed scarcely
to admit of further development. But before the advent of Weber and the romantic revolution
there was a vast amount of good work done by a lesser order of musicians, who worked on the
lines laid down by their great predecessors, and did much to familiarise the world with the
new beauties of their masters' work. The history of art often repeats itself in this way. First
comes the genius burning with celestial fire. He sweeps away the time-worn formulas, and founds
his new art upon their ruins. Then follows the crowd of disciples, men of talent and imagination,
though without the crowning impulse that moves the world. They repeat and amplify their leader's
maxims, until the world, which at first had stood aghast at teaching so novel, in time grows
accustomed to it, and finally accepts it without question. Next comes the final stage, when
what has been caviare to one generation is become the daily bread of the next. The innovations
of the master, caught up and reproduced by his disciples, in the third generation become the
conventional formulas of the art, and the world is ripe once more for a revolution!

Deeply as Gluck's work affected the history of music, his immediate disciples were few. Salieri
(1750-1825), an Italian by birth, was chiefly associated with the Viennese court, but wrote
his best work, 'Les Danaïdes,' for Paris. He caught the trick of Gluck's grand style cleverly,
but was hardly more than an imitator. Sacchini (1734-1786) had a more original vein, though
he too was essentially a composer of the second class. He was not actually a pupil of Gluck,
though his later works, written for the Paris stage, show the influence of the composer of
'Alceste' very strongly. The greatest of Gluck's immediate followers--the greatest, because
he imbibed the principles of his master's art without slavishly reproducing his form--was Méhul
(1763-1817), a composer who is so little known in England that it is difficult to speak of
him in terms which shall not sound exaggerated to those who are not familiar with his works.
How highly he is ranked by French critics may be gathered from the fact that when 'Israel in
Egypt' was performed for the first time in Paris some years ago, M. Julien Tiersot, one of
the sanest and most clear-headed of contemporary writers on music, gave it as his opinion that
Handel's work was less conspicuous for the qualities of dignity and sonority than Méhul's 'Joseph.'
Englishmen can scarcely be expected to echo this opinion, but as to the intrinsic greatness
of Méhul's work there cannot be any question. He was far more of a scientific musician than
Gluck, and his scores have nothing of his master's jejuneness. His melody, too, is dignified
and expressive, but he is sensibly inferior to Gluck in what may be called dramatic instinct,
and this, coupled with the fact that the libretti of his operas are almost uniformly uninteresting,
whereas Gluck's are drawn from the immortal legends of the past, is perhaps enough to explain
why the one has been taken and the other left. Méhul's last and greatest work, 'Joseph,' is
still performed in France and Germany, though our national prejudices forbid the hope that
it can ever be heard in this country except in a mutilated concert version. The opera follows
the Biblical story closely, and Méhul has reproduced the large simplicity of the Old Testament
with rare felicity. From the magnificent opening air, 'Champs paternels,' to the sonorous final
chorus, the work is rich in beauty of a very high order. Of his other serious works few have
remained in the current repertory, chiefly owing to their stupid libretti, for there is not
one of them that does not contain music of rare excellence. 'Stratonice,' a dignified setting
of the pathetic old story of the prince who loves his father's betrothed, deserves to live
if only for the sake of the noble air, 'Versez tous vos chagrins,' a masterpiece of sublime
tenderness as fine as anything in Gluck. 'Uthal,' a work upon an Ossianic legend, has recently
been revived with success in Germany. It embodies a curious experiment in orchestration, the
violins being entirely absent from the score. The composer's idea, no doubt, was to represent
by this means the grey colouring and misty atmosphere of the scene in which his opera was laid,
but the originality of the idea scarcely atones for the monotony in which it resulted. Although
his genius was naturally of a serious and dignified cast, Méhul wrote many works in a lighter
vein, partly no doubt in emulation of Grétry, the prince of opéra comique. Méhul's comic operas
are often deficient in sparkle, but their musical force and the enchanting melodies with which
they are begemmed have kept them alive, and several of them--'Une Folie,' for instance, and
'Le Trésor Supposé'--have been performed in Germany during the last decade, while 'L'Irato,'
a brilliant imitation of Italian opera buffa, has recently been given at Brussels with great
success.

Although born in Florence and educated in the traditions of the Neapolitan school, Cherubini
(1760-1842) belongs by right to the French school. His 'Lodoiska,' which was produced in Paris
in 1791, established his reputation; and 'Les Deux Journées' (1800), known in England as 'The
Water-Carrier,' placed him, in the estimation of Beethoven, at the head of all living composers
of opera. Posterity has scarcely endorsed Beethoven's dictum, but it is impossible to ignore
the beauty of Cherubini's work. The solidity of his concerted pieces and the picturesqueness
of his orchestration go far to explain the enthusiasm which his works aroused in a society
which as yet knew little, if anything, of Mozart. Cherubini's finest works suffer from a frigidity
and formality strangely in contrast with the grace of Grétry or the melody of Méhul, but the
infinite resources of his musicianship make amends for lack of inspiration, and 'Les Deux Journées'
may still be listened to with pleasure, if not with enthusiasm. The scene of the opera is laid
in Paris, under the rule of Cardinal Mazarin, who has been defied by Armand, the hero of the
story. The gates of Paris are strictly guarded, and every precaution is taken to prevent Armand's
escape; but he is saved by Mikeli, a water-carrier, whose son he had once befriended, and who
now repays the favour by conveying him out of Paris in his empty water-cart. Armand escapes
to a village near Paris, but is captured by the Cardinal's troops while protecting his wife
Constance, who has followed him, from the insults of two soldiers. In the end a pardon arrives
from the Queen, and all ends happily. In spite of the serious and even tragic cast of the plot,
the use of spoken dialogue compels us to class 'Les Deux Journées' as an opéra comique; and
the same rule applies to 'Médée,' Cherubini's finest work, an opera which for dignity of thought
and grandeur of expression deserves to rank high among the productions of the period. Lesueur
(1763-1837) may fitly be mentioned by the side of Méhul and Cherubini. His opera 'Les Bardes,'
though now forgotten, has qualities of undeniable excellence. Its faults as well as its beauties
are those of the period which produced it. It is declamatory rather than lyrical, and decorative
rather than dramatic, but in the midst of its conventions and formality there is much that
is true as well as picturesque.

During the closing years of the eighteenth and at the beginning of the nineteenth century the
activity of the French school of opera is in remarkable contrast with the stagnation which
prevailed in Italy and Germany. Italy, a slave to the facile graces of the Neapolitan school,
still awaited the composer who should strike off her chains and renew the youth of her national
art; while Germany, among the crowds of imitators who clung to the skirts of Mozart's mantle,
could not produce one worthy to follow in his steps. Yet though French opera embodied the finest
thought and aspiration of the day, it is only just to observe that the impetus which impelled
her composers upon new paths of progress came largely from external sources. It is curious
to note how large a share foreigners have had in building up the fabric of French opera. Lulli,
Gluck, and Cherubini in turn devoted their genius to its service. They were followed by Spontini
(1774-1851), who in spite of chauvinistic prejudice, became, on the production of 'La Vestale'
in 1807, the most popular composer of the day. Spontini's training was Neapolitan, but his
first visit to Paris showed him that there was no place upon the French stage for the trivialities
which still delighted Italian audiences. He devoted himself to careful study, and his one-act
opera 'Milton,' the first-fruits of his musicianship, showed a remarkable advance upon his
youthful efforts. Spontini professed an adoration for Mozart which bordered upon idolatry,
but his music shows rather the influence of Gluck. He is the last of what may be called the
classical school of operatic composers, and he shows little trace of the romanticism which
was beginning to lay its hand upon music. He was accused during his lifetime of overloading
his operas with orchestration, and of writing music which it was impossible to sing--accusations
which sound strangely familiar to those who are old enough to remember the reception of Wagner
in the seventies and eighties. His scores would not sound very elaborate nowadays, nor do his
melodies appear unusually tortuous or exacting, but he insisted upon violent contrasts from
his singers as well as from his orchestra, and the great length of his operas, a point in which
he anticipated Meyerbeer and Wagner, probably reduced to exhaustion the artists who were trained
on Gluck and Mozart. 'La Vestale' was followed in 1809 by 'Fernand Cortez,' and in 1819 by
'Olympie,' both of which were extremely successful, the latter in a revised form which was
produced at Berlin in 1821. Spontini's operas are now no longer performed, but the influence
which his music exercised upon men so different as Wagner and Meyerbeer makes his name important
in the history of opera.

Although Paris was the nursery of all that was best in opera at this period, to Germany belongs
the credit of producing the one work dating from the beginning of the nineteenth century which
deserves to rank with the masterpieces of the previous generation--Beethoven's 'Fidelio.' Beethoven's
(1770-1827) one contribution to the lyric stage was written in 1804 and 1805, and was produced
at Vienna in the latter year, during the French occupation. The libretto is a translation from
the French, and the story had already formed the basis of more than one opera; indeed, it was
a performance of Paer's 'Eleonora' which originally led Beethoven to think of writing his work.
Simple as it is, the plot has true nobility of design, and the purity of its motive contrasts
favourably with the tendency of the vast majority of lyric dramas. Florestan, a Spanish nobleman,
has fallen into the power of his bitterest enemy, Pizarro, the governor of a state prison near
Madrid. There the unfortunate Florestan is confined in a loathsome dungeon without light or
air, dependent upon the mercy of Pizarro for the merest crust of bread. Leonore, the unhappy
prisoner's wife, has discovered his place of confinement, and, in the hope of rescuing him,
disguises herself in male attire and hires herself as servant to Rocco, the head gaoler, under
the name of Fidelio. In this condition she has to endure the advances of Marcelline, the daughter
of Rocco, who neglects her lover Jaquino for the sake of the attractive new-comer. Before Leonore
has had time to mature her plans, news comes to the prison of the approaching visit of the
Minister Fernando on a tour of inspection. Pizarro's only chance of escaping the detection
of his crime is to put an end to Florestan's existence, and he orders Rocco to dig a grave
in the prisoner's cell. Leonore obtains leave to help the gaoler in his task, and together
they descend to the dungeon, where the unfortunate Florestan is lying in a half inanimate condition.
When their task is finished Pizarro himself comes down, and is on the point of stabbing Florestan,
when Leonore throws herself between him and his victim, a pistol in her hand, and threatens
the assassin with instant death if he advance a step. At that moment a flourish of trumpets
announces the arrival of Fernando. Pizarro is forced to hurry off to receive his guest, and
the husband and wife rush into each other's arms. The closing scene shows the discomfiture
and disgrace of Pizarro, and the restoration of Florestan to his lost honours and dignity.

The form of 'Fidelio,' like that of "Die Zauberflöte," is that of the Singspiel. In the earlier
and lighter portions of the work the construction of the drama does not differ materially from
that of the generality of Singspiele, but in the more tragic scenes the spoken dialogue is
employed with novel and extraordinary force. So far from suggesting any feeling of anti-climax,
the sudden relapse into agitated speech often gives an effect more thrilling than any music
could command. At two points in the drama this is especially remarkable--firstly, in the prison
quartet, after the flourish of trumpets, when Jaquino comes in breathless haste to announce
the arrival of the Minister; and secondly, in the brief dialogue between the husband and wife
which separates the quartet from the following duet. Leonore's famous words, 'Nichts, nichts,
mein Florestan,' in particular, if spoken with a proper sense of their exquisite truth and
beauty, sum up the passionate devotion of the true-hearted wife, and her overflowing happiness
at the realisation of her dearest hopes, in a manner which for genuine pathos can scarcely
be paralleled upon the operatic stage.

It is hardly necessary to point out to the student of opera the steady influence which Mozart's
music exercised upon Beethoven's development. Yet although Beethoven learnt much from the composer
of 'Don Giovanni,' there is a great deal in 'Fidelio' with which Mozart had nothing to do.
The attitude of Beethoven towards opera--to go no deeper than questions of form--was radically
different from that of Mozart. Beethoven's talent was essentially symphonic rather than dramatic,
and magnificent as 'Fidelio' is, it has many passages in which it is impossible to avoid feeling
that the composer is forcing his talent into an unfamiliar if not uncongenial channel. This
is especially noticeable in the concerted pieces, in which Beethoven sometimes seems to forget
all about opera, characters, dramatic situation and everything else in the sheer delight of
writing music. No one with an ounce of musical taste in his composition would wish the canon-quartet,
the two trios or the two finales, to take a few instances at random, any shorter or less developed
than they are, but one can imagine how Mozart would have smiled at the lack of dramatic feeling
displayed in their construction.

'Fidelio,' as has already been said, is the only opera produced in Germany at this period which
is deserving of special mention. Mozart's success had raised up a crop of imitators, of whom
the most meritorious were Süssmayer, his own pupil; Winter, who had the audacity to write a
sequel to 'Die Zauberflöte'; Weigl, the composer of the popular 'Schweizerfamilie' the Abbé
Vogler, who, though now known chiefly by his organ music, was a prolific writer for the stage;
and Dittersdorf, a writer of genuine humour, whose spirited Singspiel, 'Doktor und Apotheker,'
carried on the traditions of Hiller successfully. But though the lighter school of opera in
Germany produced nothing of importance, upon the more congenial soil of France opéra comique,
in the hands of a school of earnest and gifted composers, was acquiring a musical distinction
which it was far from possessing in the days of Grétry and Monsigny. Strictly speaking, the
operas of Méhul and Cherubini should be ranked as opéras comiques, by reason of the spoken
dialogue which takes the place of the recitative; but the high seriousness which continually
animates the music of these masters makes it impossible to class their works with operas so
different in aim and execution as those of Grétry. Of the many writers of opéra comique at
the beginning of this century, it will be enough to mention two of the most prominent, Nicolo
and Boieldieu. Nicolo Isouard (1777-1818), to give him his full name, shone less by musical
science or dramatic instinct than by a delicate and pathetic grace which endeared his music
to the hearts of his contemporaries. He had little originality, and his facility often descends
to commonplace, but much of the music in 'Joconde' and 'Cendrillon' lives by grace of its inimitable
tenderness and charm. Nicolo is the Greuze of music. Boieldieu (1775-1834) stands upon a very
different plane. Although he worked within restricted limits, his originality and resource
place him among the great masters of French music. His earlier works are, for the most, light
and delicate trifles; but in 'Jean de Paris' (1812) and 'La Dame Blanche' (1825), to name only
two of his many successful works, he shows real solidity of style and no little command of
musical invention, combined with the delicate melody and pathetic grace which rarely deserted
him. The real strength and distinction of 'La Dame Blanche' have sufficed to keep it alive
until the present day, although it has never, in spite of the Scottish origin of the libretto,
won in this country a tithe of the popularity which it enjoys in France. The story is a combination
of incidents taken from Scott's 'Monastery' and 'Guy Mannering.' The Laird of Avenel, who was
obliged to fly from Scotland after the battle of Culloden, entrusted his estates to his steward
Gaveston. Many years having passed without tidings of the absentee, Gaveston determines to
put the castle and lands up for sale. He has sedulously fostered a tradition which is current
among the villagers, that the castle is haunted by a White Lady, hoping by this means to deter
any of the neighbouring farmers from competing with him for the estate. The day before the
sale takes place, Dickson, one of the farmers, is summoned to the castle by Anna, an orphan
girl who had been befriended by the Laird. Dickson is too superstitious to venture, but his
place is taken by George Brown, a young soldier, who arrived at the village that day. George
has an interview with the White Lady, who is of course Anna in disguise. She recognises George
as the man whose life she saved after a battle, and knowing him to be the rightful heir of
Avenel, promises to help him in recovering his property. She has discovered that treasure is
concealed in a statue of the White Lady, and with this she empowers George to buy back his
ancestral lands and castle. Gaveston is outbidden at the sale, and George weds Anna. Boieldieu's
music has much melodic beauty, though its tenderness is apt to degenerate into sentimentality.
In its original form the opera would nowadays be unbearably tiresome, and only a judicious
shortening of the interminable duets and trios can make them tolerable to a modern audience.
In spite of much that is conventional and old-fashioned, the alternate vigour and grace of
'La Dame Blanche' and the genuine musical interest of the score make it the most favourable
specimen of this period of French opéra comique. It is the last offspring of the older school.
After Boieldieu's time the influence of Rossini became paramount, and opéra comique, unable
to resist a spell so formidable, began to lose its distinctively national characteristics.
We have seen how the voluptuous delights of Armida's garden affected even the stately muse
of Gluck; and in the generation which succeeded him, though opera still followed classic lines
of form, in subject and treatment it was tinged with the prismatic colours of romance. Méhul's
curious experiments in orchestration, and the solemn splendour of Mozart's Egyptian mysteries,
alike show the influence of the romantic spirit as surely as the weirdest piece of diablerie
ever devised by Weber or his followers. Yet though intimations of the approaching change had
for long been perceptible to the discerning eye, it was not until the days of Weber that the
classical forms and methods which had ruled the world of opera since the days of Gluck gave
way before the newer and more vivid passion of romance. Even then it must not be forgotten
that the romantic school differed from the classic more in view of life and treatment of subject
than in actual subject itself. The word romance conjures up weird visions of the supernatural
or glowing pictures of chivalry; but although it is true that Weber and his followers loved
best to treat of such themes as these, they had by no means been excluded from the repertory
of their classical predecessors. The supernatural terrors of 'Der Freischütz' must not make
us forget the terrific finale to 'Don Giovanni,' nor can the most glowing picture from 'Euryanthe'
erase memories of Rinaldo and the Crusaders in 'Armide.' The romantic movement, however, as
interpreted by Weber, aimed definitely at certain things, which had not previously come within
the scope of music, though for many years they had been the common property of art and literature.
The romantic movement was primarily a revolt against the tyranny of man and his emotions. It
claimed a wider stage and an ampler air. Nature was not henceforth to be merely the background
against which man played his part. The beauty of landscape, the glory of the setting sun, the
splendour of the sea, the mystery of the forest--all these the romantic movement taught men
to regard not merely as the accessories of a scene in which man was the predominant figure,
but as subjects in themselves worthy of artistic treatment. The genius of Weber (1786-1826)
was a curious compound of two differing types. In essence it was thoroughly German--sane in
inspiration, and drawing its strength from the homely old Volkslieder, so dear to every true
German heart. Yet over this solid foundation there soared an imagination surely more delicate
and ethereal than has ever been allotted to mortal musician before or since, by the aid of
which Weber was enabled to treat all subjects beneath heaven with equal success. He is equally
at home in the eerie horrors of the Wolf's Glen, in the moonlit revels of Oberon, and in the
knightly pomp and circumstance of the Provençal court.

Weber's early years were a continual struggle against defeat and disappointment. His musical
education was somewhat superficial, and his first works, 'Sylvana' and 'Peter Schmoll,' gave
little promise of his later glory. 'Abu Hassan,' a one-act comic opera, which was produced
in 1811, at Munich, was his first real success. Slight as the story is, it is by no means unamusing,
and the music, which is a piece of the daintiest filagree-work imaginable, has helped to keep
the little work alive to the present day. Such plot as there is describes the shifts of Hassan
and Fatima, his wife, to avoid paying their creditors, who are unduly pressing in their demands.
Finally they both pretend to be dead, and by this means excite the regret of their master and
mistress, the Sultan and Sultana, a regret which takes the practical form of releasing them
from their embarrassments.

In 'Der Freischütz' Weber was at last in his true element. The plot of the opera is founded
upon an old forest legend of a demon who persuades huntsmen to sell their souls in exchange
for magic bullets which never miss their mark. Caspar, who is a ranger in the service of Prince
Ottokar of Bohemia, had sold himself to the demon Samiel. The day is approaching when his soul
will become forfeit to the powers of evil, unless he can bring a fresh victim in his place.
He looks around him for a possible substitute, and his choice falls upon Max, another ranger,
who had been unlucky in the preliminary contest for the post of chief huntsman, and is only
too ready to listen to Caspar's promise of unerring bullets. Max loves Agathe, the daughter
of Kuno, the retiring huntsman, and unless he can secure the vacant post, he has little hope
of being able to marry her. He agrees eagerly to Caspar's proposal, and promises to meet him
at midnight in the haunted Wolf's Glen, there to go through the ceremony of casting the magic
bullets. Meanwhile Agathe is oppressed by forebodings of coming evil. The fall of an old picture
seems to her a presage of woe, and her lively cousin Aennchen can do little to console her.
The appearance of Max on his way to the Wolf's Glen, cheers her but little. He too has been
troubled by strange visions, and as the moment of the rendezvous approaches his courage begins
to fail. Nevertheless he betakes himself to the Glen, and there, amidst scenes of the wildest
supernatural horror, the bullets are cast in the presence of the terrible Samiel himself. Six
of them are for Max, to be used by him in the approaching contest, while the seventh will be
at the disposal of the demon. In the third act Agathe is discovered preparing for her wedding.
She has dreamed that, in the shape of a dove, she was shot by Max, and she cannot shake off
a sense of approaching trouble. Her melancholy is not dissipated by the discovery that, instead
of a bridal crown, a funeral wreath has been prepared for her; however, to console herself,
she determines to wear a wreath of sacred roses, which had been given her by the hermit of
the forest. The last scene shows the shooting contest on which the future of Max and Agathe
depends. Max makes six shots in succession, all of which hit the mark. At last, at the Prince's
command, he fires at a dove which is flying past. Agathe falls with a shriek, but is protected
by her wreath, while Samiel directs the bullet to Caspar's heart. At the sight of his associate's
fate Max is stricken with remorse, and tells the story of his unholy compact. The Prince is
about to banish him from his service, when the hermit appears and intercedes for the unfortunate
youth. The Prince is mollified, and it is decided that Max shall have a year's probation, after
which he shall be permitted to take the post of chief huntsman and marry Agathe.

'Der Freischütz' is, upon the whole, the most thoroughly characteristic of Weber's works. The
famous passage for the horns, with which the overture opens, strikes the note of mystery and
romance which echoes through the work. The overture itself is a notable example of that new
beauty which Weber infused into the time-honoured form. If he was not actually the first--for
Beethoven had already written his 'Leonore' overtures--to make the overture a picture in brief
of the incidents of the opera, he developed the idea with so much picturesque power and imagination
that the preludes to his operas remain the envy and despair of modern theatrical composers.
The inspiration of 'Der Freischütz' is drawn so directly from the German Volkslied, that at
its production Weber was roundly accused of plagiarism by many critics. Time has shown the
folly of such charges. 'Der Freischütz' is German to the core, and every page of it bears the
impress of German inspiration, but the glamour of Weber's genius transmuted the rough material
he employed into a fabric of the richest art. Of the imaginative power of such scenes as the
famous incantation it is unnecessary to speak. It introduced a new element into music, and
one which was destined to have an almost immeasurable influence upon modern music. Weber's
power of characterisation was remarkable, as shown particularly in the music assigned to Agathe
and Aennchen, but in this respect he was certainly inferior to some of his predecessors, notably
to Mozart. But in imaginative power and in the minute knowledge of orchestral detail, which
enabled him to translate his conceptions into music, he has never been surpassed among writers
for the stage. Modern opera, if we may speak in general terms, may be said to date from the
production of 'Der Freischütz.'

Operatic composers are too often dogged by a fate which seems to compel them to wed their noblest
inspirations to libretti of incorrigible dulness, and Weber was even more unfortunate in this
respect than his brethren of the craft. After 'Der Freischütz,' the libretti which he took
in hand were of the most unworthy description, and even his genius has not been able to give
them immortality. 'Euryanthe' was the work of Helmine von Chezy, the authoress of 'Rosamunde,'
for which Schubert wrote his entrancing incidental music. Weber was probably attracted by the
romantic elements of the story, the chivalry of mediæval France, the marches and processions,
the pomp and glitter of the court, and overlooked the weak points of the plot. To tell the
truth, much of the libretto of 'Euryanthe' borders upon the incomprehensible. The main outline
of the story is as follows. At a festival given by the King of France, Count Adolar praises
the beauty and virtue of his betrothed Euryanthe, and Lysiart, who also loves her, offers to
wager all he possesses that he will contrive to gain her love. Adolar accepts the challenge,
and Lysiart departs for Nevers, where Euryanthe is living. The second act discovers Euryanthe
and Eglantine, an outcast damsel whom she has befriended. Eglantine secretly loves Adolar,
but extracts a promise from Lysiart, who has arrived at Nevers, that he will marry her. In
return for this she gives him a ring belonging to Euryanthe, which she has stolen, and tells
him a secret relating to a mysterious Emma, a sister of Adolar, which Euryanthe has incautiously
revealed to her. Armed with these Lysiart returns to the court, and quickly persuades Adolar
and the King that he has won Euryanthe's affection. No one listens to her denials; she is condemned
to death, and Adolar's lands and titles are given to Lysiart. Euryanthe is led into the desert
to be killed by Adolar. On the way he is attacked by a serpent, which he kills, though not
before Euryanthe has proved her devotion by offering to die in her lover's place. Adolar then
leaves Euryanthe to perish, declaring that he has not the heart to kill her. She is found in
a dying condition by the King, whom she speedily convinces of her innocence. Meanwhile Adolar
has returned to Nevers, to encounter the bridal procession of Eglantine and Lysiart. Eglantine
confesses that she helped to ruin Euryanthe in the hope of winning Adolar, and is promptly
stabbed by Lysiart. Everything being satisfactorily cleared up, Euryanthe conveniently awakes
from a trance into which she had fallen, and the lovers are finally united. Puerile as the
libretto is, it inspired Weber with some of the finest music he ever wrote. The spectacular
portions of the opera are animated by the true spirit of chivalry, while all that is connected
with the incomprehensible Emma and her secret is unspeakably eerie. The characters of the drama
are such veritable puppets, that no expenditure of talent could make them interesting; but
the resemblance between the general scheme of the plot of 'Euryanthe' and that of 'Lohengrin'
should not be passed over, nor the remarkable way in which Weber had anticipated some of Wagner's
most brilliant triumphs, notably in the characters of Eglantine and Lysiart, who often seem
curiously to foreshadow Ortrud and Telramund, and in the finale to the second act, in which
the single voice of Euryanthe, like that of Elisabeth in 'Tannhäuser,' is contrasted with the
male chorus.

Weber's last opera, 'Oberon,' is one of the few works written in recent times by a foreign
composer of the first rank for the English stage. The libretto, which was the work of Planché,
is founded upon an old French romance, 'Huon of Bordeaux,' and though by no means a model of
lucidity, it contains many scenes both powerful and picturesque, which must have captivated
the imagination of a musician so impressionable as Weber. The opera opens in fairyland, where
a bevy of fairies is watching the slumbers of Oberon. The fairy king has quarrelled with Titania,
and has vowed never to be reconciled to her until he shall find two lovers constant to each
other through trial and temptation. Puck, who has been despatched to search for such a pair,
enters with the news that Sir Huon of Bordeaux, who had accidentally slain the son of Charlemagne,
has been commanded, in expiation of his crime, to journey to Bagdad, to claim the Caliph's
daughter as his bride, and slay the man who sits at his right hand. Oberon forthwith throws
Huon into a deep sleep, and in a vision shows him Rezia, the daughter of the Caliph, of whom
the ardent knight instantly becomes enamoured. He then conveys him to the banks of the Tigris,
and giving him a magic horn, starts him upon his dangerous enterprise. In the Caliph's palace
Huon fights with Babekan, Rezia's suitor, rescues the maiden, and with the aid of the magic
horn carries her off from the palace, while his esquire Sherasmin performs the same kind office
for Fatima, Rezia's attendant. On their way home they encounter a terrific storm, raised by
the power of Oberon to try their constancy. They are ship-wrecked, and Rezia is carried off
by pirates to Tunis, whilst Huon is left for dead upon the beach. At Tunis more troubles are
in store for the hapless pair. Huon, who has been transported by the fairies across the sea,
finds his way into the house of the Emir, where Rezia is in slavery. There he is unlucky enough
to win the favour of Roshana, the Emir's wife, and before he can escape from her embraces he
is discovered by the Emir himself, and condemned to be burned alive. Rezia proclaims herself
his wife, and she also is condemned to the stake; but at this crisis Oberon intervenes. The
lovers have been tried enough, and their constancy is rewarded. They are transported to the
court of Charlemagne, where a royal welcome awaits them.

Although written for England, 'Oberon' has never achieved much popularity in this, or indeed
in any country. The fairy music is exquisite throughout, but the human interest of the story
is after all slight, and Weber, on whom the hand of death was heavy as he wrote the score,
failed to infuse much individuality into his characters. 'Oberon' was his last work, and he
died in London soon after it was produced. During the last few years of his life he had been
engaged in a desultory way upon the composition of a comic opera, 'Die drei Pintos,' founded
upon a Spanish subject. He left this in an unfinished state, but some time after his death
it was found that the manuscript sketches and notes for the work were on a scale sufficiently
elaborate to give a proper idea of what the composer's intentions with regard to the work really
were. The work of arrangement was entrusted to Herr G. Mahler, and under his auspices 'Die
drei Pintos' was actually produced, though with little success.

At the present time the only opera of Weber which can truthfully be said to belong to the current
repertory is 'Der Freischütz,' and even this is rarely performed out of Germany. The small
amount of favour which 'Euryanthe' and 'Oberon' enjoy is due, as has been already pointed out,
chiefly to the weakness of their libretti, yet it seems strange that the man to whom the whole
tendency of modern opera is due should hold so small a place in our affections. The changes
which Weber and his followers effected, though less drastic, were in their results fully as
important as those of Gluck. In the orchestra as well as on the stage he introduced a new spirit,
a new point of view. What modern music owes to him may be summed up in a word. Without Weber,
Wagner would have been impossible.

Louis Spohr (1784-1859) is now almost forgotten as an operatic composer, but at one time his
popularity was only second to that of Weber. Many competent critics have constantly affirmed
that a day will come when Spohr's operas, now neglected, will return to favour once more; but
years pass, and there seems no sign of a revival of interest in his work. Yet he has a certain
importance in the history of opera; for, so far as chronology is concerned, he ought perhaps
to be termed the founder of the romantic school rather than Weber, since his 'Faust' was produced
in 1818, and 'Der Freischütz' did not appear until 1821. But the question seems to turn not
so much upon whether Spohr or Weber were first in the field, as whether Spohr is actually a
romantic composer at all. If the subjects which he treated were all that need be taken into
account, the matter could easily be decided. No composer ever dealt more freely in the supernatural
than Spohr. His operas are peopled with elves, ghosts, and goblins. Ruined castles, midnight
assassins, and distressed damsels greet us on every page. But if we go somewhat deeper, we
find that the real qualities of romanticism are strangely absent from his music. His form differs
little from that of his classical predecessors, and his orchestration is curiously arid and
unsuggestive; in a word, the breath of imagination rarely animates his pages. Yet the workmanship
of his operas is so admirable, and his vein of melody is so delicate and refined, that it is
difficult to help thinking that Spohr has been unjustly neglected. His 'Faust,' which has nothing
to do with Goethe's drama, was popular in England fifty years ago; and 'Jessonda,' which contains
the best of his music, is still occasionally performed in Germany. The rest of his works, with
the exception of a few scattered airs, such as 'Rose softly blooming,' from 'Zemire und Azor,'
seem to be completely forgotten.

Heinrich Marschner (1796-1861), though not a pupil of Weber, was strongly influenced by his
music, and carried on the traditions of the romantic school worthily and well. He was a man
of vivid imagination, and revelled in uncanny legends of the supernatural. His works are performed
with tolerable frequency in Germany, and still please by reason of their inexhaustible flow
of melody and their brilliant and elaborate orchestration. 'Hans Heiling,' his masterpiece,
is founded upon a sombre old legend of the Erzgebirge. The king of the gnomes has seen and
loved a Saxon maiden, Anna by name, and to win her heart he leaves his palace in the bowels
of the earth and masquerades as a village schoolmaster under the name of Hans Heiling. Anna
is flattered by his attentions, and promises to be his wife; but she soon tires of her gloomy
lover, and ends by openly admitting her preference for the hunter Conrad. Her resolution to
break with Hans is confirmed by an apparition of the queen of the gnomes, Hans Heiling's mother,
surrounded by her attendant sprites, who warns her under fearful penalties to forswear the
love of an immortal. Hans Heiling is furious at the perfidy of Anna, and vows terrible vengeance
upon her and Conrad, which he is about to put into execution with the aid of his gnomes. At
the last moment, however, his mother appears, and persuades him to relinquish all hopes of
earthly love and to return with her to their subterranean home. There is much in this strange
story which suggests the legend of the Flying Dutchman, and, bearing in mind the admiration
which in his early days Wagner felt for the works of Marschner, it is interesting to trace
in 'Hans Heiling' the source of much that is familiar to us in the score of 'Der Fliegende
Holländer.' Of Marschner's other operas, the most familiar are 'Templer und Jüdin,' founded
upon Sir Walter Scott's 'Ivanhoe,' a fine work, suffering from a confused and disconnected
libretto; and 'Der Vampyr,' a tale of unmitigated gloom and horror.

Weber and Marschner show the German romantic school at its best; for the lesser men, such as
Hoffmann and Lindpaintner, did little but reproduce the salient features of their predecessors
more or less faithfully. The romantic school is principally associated with the sombre dramas,
in which the taste of that time delighted; but there was another side to the movement which
must not be neglected. The Singspiel, established by Hiller and perfected by Mozart, had languished
during the early years of the century, or rather had fallen into the hands of composers who
were entirely unable to do justice to its possibilities. The romantic movement touched it into
new life, and a school arose which contrived by dint of graceful melody and ingenious orchestral
device to invest with real musical interest the simple stories in which the German middle-class
delights. The most successful of these composers were Kreutzer and Lortzing.

Conradin Kreutzer (1782-1849) was a prolific composer, but the only one of his operas which
can honestly be said to have survived to our times is 'Das Nachtlager von Granada.' This tells
the tale of an adventure which befell the Prince Regent of Spain. While hunting in the mountains
he falls in with Gabriela, a pretty peasant maiden who is in deep distress. She confides to
him that her affairs of the heart have gone awry. Her lover, Gomez the shepherd, is too poor
to marry, and her father wishes her to accept the Croesus of the village, a man whom she detests.
The handsome huntsman--for such she supposes him to be--promises to intercede for her with
his patron the Prince, and when her friends and relations, a band of arrant smugglers and thieves,
appear, he tries to buy their consent to her union with Gomez by means of a gold chain which
he happens to be wearing. The sight of so much wealth arouses the cupidity of the knaves, and
they at once brew a plot to murder the huntsman in his sleep. Luckily Gabriela overhears their
scheming, and puts the Prince upon his guard. The assassins find him prepared for their assault,
and ready to defend himself to the last drop of blood. Fortunately matters do not come to a
climax. A body of the Prince's attendants arrive in time to prevent any bloodshed, and the
opera ends with the discomfiture of the villains and the happy settlement of Gabriela's love
affairs. Kreutzer's music is for the most part slight, and occasionally borders upon the trivial,
but several scenes are treated in the true romantic spirit, and some of the concerted pieces
are admirably written. Lortzing (1803-1852) was a more gifted musician than Kreutzer, and several
of his operas are still exceedingly popular in Germany. The scene of 'Czar und Zimmermann,'
which is fairly well known in England as 'Peter the Shipwright,' is laid at Saardam, where
Peter the Great is working in a shipyard under the name of Michaelhoff. There is another Russian
employed in the same yard, a deserter named Peter Ivanhoff, and the very slight incidents upon
which the action of the opera hinges arise from the mistakes of a blundering burgomaster who
confuses the identity of the two men. The music is exceedingly bright and tuneful, and much
of it is capitally written. Scarcely less popular in Germany than 'Czar und Zimmermann' is
'Der Wildschütz' (The Poacher), a bustling comedy of intrigue and disguise, which owes its
name to the mistake of a foolish old village schoolmaster, who fancies that he has shot a stag
in the baronial preserves. The chief incidents in the piece arise from the humours of a vivacious
baroness, who disguises herself as a servant in order to make the acquaintance of her fiancé,
unknown to him. The music of 'Der Wildschütz' is no less bright and unpretentious than that
of 'Czar und Zimmermann'; in fact, these two works may be taken as good specimens of Lortzing's
engaging talent. His strongest points are a clever knack of treating the voices contrapuntally
in concerted pieces, and a humorous trick of orchestration, two features with which English
audiences have become pleasantly familiar in Sir Arthur Sullivan's operettas, which works indeed
owe not a little to the influence of Lortzing and Kreutzer.

Inferior even to the slightest of the minor composers of the romantic school was Flotow, whose
'Martha' nevertheless has survived to our time, while hundreds of works far superior in every
way have perished irretrievably. Flotow (1812-1883) was a German by birth, but his music is
merely a feeble imitation of the popular Italianisms of the day. 'Martha' tells the story of
a freakish English lady who, with her maid, disguises herself as a servant and goes to the
hiring fair at Richmond. There they fall in with an honest farmer of the neighbourhood named
Plunket, and his friend Lionel, who promptly engage them. The two couples soon fall in love
with each other, but various hindrances arise which serve to prolong the story into four weary
acts. Flotow had a certain gift of melody, and the music of 'Martha' has the merit of a rather
trivial tunefulness, but the score is absolutely devoid of any real musical interest, and the
fact that performances of such a work as 'Martha' are still possible in London gives an unfortunate
impression of the standard of musical taste prevailing in England. Otto Nicolai (1810-1849)
began by imitating Italian music, but in 'Die lustigen Weiber von Windsor,' a capital adaptation
of Shakespeare's 'Merry Wives of Windsor,' which was only produced a few months before his
death, he returned to the type of comic opera which was popular at that time in Germany. He
was an excellent musician, and the captivating melody of this genial little work is supplemented
by excellent concerted writing and thoroughly sound orchestration.

To this period belong the operas written by three composers who in other branches of music
have won immortality, although their dramatic works have failed to win lasting favour.

Mendelssohn's (1809-1847) boyish opera 'Die Hochzeit des Camacho' is too inexperienced a work
to need more than a passing word, and his Liederspiel 'Heimkehr aus der Fremde' is little more
than a collection of songs; but the finale to his unfinished 'Lorelei' shows that he possessed
genuine dramatic power, and it must be a matter for regret that his difficulties in fixing
on a libretto prevented his giving anything to the permanent repertory of the stage.

Schubert (1797-1828) wrote many works for the stage--romantic operas like 'Fierrabras' and
'Alfonso und Estrella,' operettas like 'Der häusliche Krieg,' and farces like 'Die Zwillingsbrüder.'
Most of them were saddled by inane libretti, and though occasionally revived by enthusiastic
admirers of the composer, only prove that Schubert's talent was essentially not dramatic, however
interesting his music may be to musicians.

Schumann's (1810-1856) one contribution to the history of opera, 'Genoveva,' is decidedly more
important, and indeed it seems possible that after many years of neglect it may at last take
a place in the modern repertory. It is founded upon a tragedy by Hebbel, and tells of the passion
of Golo for Genoveva, the wife of his patron Siegfried, his plot to compromise her, and the
final triumph of the constant wife. The music cannot be said to be undramatic; on the contrary,
Schumann often realises the situations with considerable success: but he had little power of
characterisation, and all the characters sing very much the same kind of music. This gives
a feeling of monotony to the score, which is hardly dispelled even by the many beauties with
which it is adorned. Nevertheless 'Genoveva' has been revived in several German towns of late
years, and its music has always met with much applause from connoisseurs, though it is never
likely to be generally popular.

CHAPTER VII

ROSSINI, DONIZETTI, AND BELLINI

While Weber was reconstructing opera in Germany and laying the foundations upon which the vast
structure of modern lyrical drama was afterwards reared by the composers of our own day, reforms,
or at any rate innovations, were being introduced into Italian opera by a musician scarcely
less gifted even than the founder of the romantic school himself. Rossini (1792-1868) owed
but little of his fame to instruction or study. As soon as he had been assured by his master
that he knew enough of the grammar of music to write an opera, he relinquished his studies
once for all, and started life as a composer. In this perhaps he showed his wisdom, for his
natural gifts were of such a nature as could scarcely have been enhanced by erudition, and
the mission which he so amply fulfilled in freeing his national art from eighteenth-century
convention was certainly not one which depended upon a profound knowledge of counterpoint.
Nature had fortunately endowed him with precisely the equipment necessary for the man who was
to reform Italian opera. The school of Paisiello, notwithstanding its many merits, had several
grievous weaknesses, of which the most prominent were uniformity of melodic type, nerveless
and conventional orchestration, and intolerable prolixity. Rossini brought to his task a vein
of melody as inexhaustible in inspiration as it was novel in form, a natural instinct for instrumental
colour, and a firm conviction that brevity was the soul of wit. He leapt into fame with 'Tancredi,'
which was produced in 1813 and established his reputation as a composer of opera seria. In
opera buffa, a field in which his talents shone even more brilliantly, his earliest success
was made with 'L'Italiana in Algeri' (1813), which was followed in 1815 by the world-famous
'Barbiere di Siviglia.' This was originally produced in Rome under the name of 'Almaviva,'
and strangely enough, proved an emphatic failure. For this, however, the music was scarcely
responsible. The people of Rome were at that time devotees of the music of Paisiello, and resented
the impertinence of the upstart Rossini in venturing to borrow a subject which had already
been treated by the older master. 'Il Barbiere' soon recovered from the shock of its unfriendly
reception, and is now one of the very few of Rossini's works which have survived to the present
day. The story is bright and amusing and the music brilliant and exhilarating, but it is to
be feared that the real explanation of the continued success of the little opera lies in the
opportunity which it offers to the prima donna of introducing her favourite cheval de bataille
in the lesson scene. The scene of the opera is laid at Seville. Count Almaviva has fallen in
love with Rosina, a fascinating damsel, whose guardian, Bartolo, keeps her under lock and key,
in the hope of persuading her to marry himself. Figaro, a ubiquitous barber, who is in everybody's
confidence, takes the Count under his protection, and contrives to smuggle him into the house
in the disguise of a drunken soldier. Unfortunately this scheme is frustrated by the arrival
of the guard, who arrest the refractory hero and carry him off to gaol. In the second act the
Count succeeds in getting into the house as a music-master, but in order to gain the suspicious
Bartolo's confidence he has to show him one of Rosina's letters to himself, pretending that
it was given him by a mistress of Almaviva. Bartolo is delighted with the news of the Count's
infidelity and hastens to tell the scandal to Rosina, whose jealousy and disappointment nearly
bring Almaviva's deep-laid schemes to destruction. Happily he finds an opportunity of persuading
her of his constancy while her guardian's back is turned, and induces her to elope before Bartolo
has discovered the fraud practised upon him. The music is a delightful example of Rossini in
his gayest and merriest mood. It sparkles with wit and fancy, and is happily free from those
concessions to the vanity or idiosyncrasy of individual singers which do so much to render
his music tedious to modern ears. Of Rossini's lighter works, 'Il Barbiere' is certainly the
most popular, though, musically speaking, it is perhaps not superior to 'La Gazza Ladra,' which,
however, is saddled with an idiotic libretto. None of his tragic operas except 'Guillaume Tell,'
which belongs to a later period, have retained their hold upon the affections of the public.
Nevertheless there is so much excellent music in the best of them, that it would not be strange
if the course of time should bring them once more into favour, provided always that singers
were forthcoming capable of singing the elaborate fioriture with which they abound. Perhaps
the finest of the serious operas of Rossini's Italian period is 'Semiramide' a work which is
especially interesting as a proof of the strong influence which Mozart exercised upon him.
The plot is a Babylonian version of the story of Agamemnon, telling of the vengeance taken
by Arsaces, the son of Ninus and Semiramis, upon his guilty mother, who, with the help of her
paramour Assur, had slain her husband. Much of the music is exceedingly powerful, notably that
which accompanies the apparition of the ghost of Ninus (although this is evidently inspired
by 'Don Giovanni'), and the passionate scene in which the conscience-stricken Assur pours forth
his soul in tempest. More thoroughly Italian in type is 'Mosé in Egitto,' a curious though
effective version of the Biblical story, which is still occasionally performed as an oratorio
in this country, a proceeding which naturally gives little idea of its real merits. In 1833
it was actually given under the proper conditions, as a sacred opera, strengthened by a generous
infusion of Handel's 'Israel in Egypt,' under the direction of Mr. Rophino Lacy. It would be
an idle task to give even the names of Rossini's many operas. Suffice it to say that between
1810 and 1828 he produced upwards of forty distinct works. In 1829 came his last and greatest
work, 'Guillaume Tell,' which was written for the Grand Opéra in Paris. The libretto was the
work of many hands, and Rossini's own share in it was not a small one. It follows Schiller
with tolerable closeness. In the first act Tell saves the life of Leuthold, who is being pursued
by Gessler's soldiers; and Melchthal, the patriarch of the village, is put to death on a charge
of insubordination. His son Arnold loves Matilda, the sister of Gessler, and hesitates between
love and duty. Finally, however, he joins Tell, who assembles the men of the three forest cantons,
and binds them with an oath to exterminate their oppressors or perish in the attempt. In the
third act comes the famous archery scene. Tell refuses to bow to Gessler's hat, and is condemned
to shoot the apple from his son's head. This he successfully accomplishes, but the presence
of a second arrow in his quiver arouses Gessler's suspicions. Tell confesses that had he killed
his son, the second arrow would have despatched the tyrant, and is at once thrown into prison.
In the last act we find Arnold raising a band of followers and himself accomplishing the rescue
of Tell; Gessler is slain, and Matilda is united to her lover.

'Guillaume Tell' is not only indisputably Rossini's finest work, but it also give convincing
proof of the plasticity of the composer's genius. Accustomed as he had been for many years
to turning out Italian operas by the score--graceful trifles enough, but too often flimsy and
conventional--it says much for the character of the man that, when the occasion arrived, he
could attack such a subject as that of Tell with the proper seriousness and reserve. He took
what was best in the style and tradition of French opera and welded it to the thoroughly Italian
fabric with which he was familiar. He put aside the excessive ornamentation with which his
earlier works had been overladen, and treated the voices with a simplicity and dignity thoroughly
in keeping with the subject. The choral and instrumental parts of the opera are particularly
important; the latter especially have a colour and variety which may be considered to have
had a large share in forming the taste for delicate orchestral effects for which modern French
composers are famous. 'Guillaume Tell' was to have been the first of a series of five operas
written for the Paris Opera by special arrangement with the government of Charles X. The revolution
of 1830 put an end to this scheme, and a few years later, finding himself displaced by Meyerbeer
in the affections of the fickle Parisian public, Rossini made up his mind to write no more
for the stage. He lived for nearly forty years after the production of 'Guillaume Tell,' but
preferred a life of ease and leisure to entering the lists once more as a candidate for fame.
What the world lost by this decision, it is difficult to say; but if we remember the extraordinary
development which took place in the style and methods of Wagner and Verdi, we cannot think
without regret of the composer of 'Guillaume Tell' making up his mind while still a young man
to abandon the stage for ever. Nevertheless, although much of his music soon became old-fashioned,
Rossini's work was not unimportant. The invention of the cabaletta, or quick movement, following
the cavatina or slow movement, must be ascribed to him, an innovation which has affected the
form of opera, German and French, as well as Italian, throughout this century. Even more important
was the change which he introduced into the manner of singing fioriture or florid music. Before
his day singers had been accustomed to introduce cadenzas of their own, to a great extent when
they liked. Rossini insisted upon their singing nothing but what was set down for them. Naturally
he was compelled to write cadenzas for them as elaborate and effective as those which they
had been in the habit of improvising, so that much of his Italian music sounds empty and meaningless
to our ears. But he introduced the thin edge of the wedge, and although even to the days of
Jenny Lind singers were occasionally permitted to interpolate cadenzas of their own, the old
tradition that an opera was merely an opportunity for the display of individual vanity was doomed.

The music of Donizetti (1798-1848) is now paying the price of a long career of popularity by
enduring a season of neglect. His tragic operas, which were the delight of opera-goers in the
fifties and sixties, sound cold and thin to modern ears. There is far more genuine life in
his lighter works, many of which still delight us by their unaffected tunefulness and vivacity.
Donizetti had little musical education, and his spirit rebelled so strongly against the rules
of counterpoint that he preferred to go into the army rather than to devote himself to church
music. His first opera, 'Enrico di Borgogna,' was produced in 1818, and for the next five-and-twenty
years he worked assiduously, producing in all no fewer than sixty-five operas.

'Lucia di Lammermoor' (1835), which was for many years one of the most popular works in the
Covent Garden repertory, has now sunk to the level of a mere prima donna's opera, to be revived
once or twice a year in order to give a popular singer an opportunity for vocal display. Yet
there are passages in it of considerable dramatic power, and many of the melodies are fresh
and expressive. The plot is founded upon 'The Bride of Lammermoor,' but it is Scott's tragic
romance seen through very Italian spectacles indeed. Henry Ashton has promised the hand of
his sister Lucy to Lord Arthur Bucklaw, hoping by means of this marriage to recruit the fallen
fortunes of his house. Lucy loves Edgar Ravenswood, the hereditary foe of her family, and vows
to be true to him while he is away on an embassy in France. During his absence Ashton contrives
to intercept Ravenswood's letters to his sister, and finally produces a forged paper, which
Lucy accepts as the proof of her lover's infidelity. She yields to the pressure of her brother's
entreaties, and consents to marry Lord Arthur. No sooner has she set her name to the contract
than the door opens and Edgar appears. Confronted with the proof of Lucy's inconstancy, he
curses the house of Lammermoor and rushes away. Ashton follows him, and, after a stormy interview,
challenges him to mortal combat. Meanwhile, on her bridal night Lucy has lost her reason and
in her frenzy stabbed her unfortunate bridegroom. On coming once more to her senses, she puts
an end to her own life; while Edgar, on hearing of the tragedy, betakes himself to the tombs
of his ancestors and there commits suicide. Much of the music suffers from the conventionality
to which Donizetti was a slave, notably the ridiculous mad scene, a delightfully suave melody
ending with an elaborate cadenza divided between the voice and flute; but there are passages
of real power, such as the fine sextet in the contract scene, and the gloomy air in which the
hero calls upon the spirits of his forefathers.

Less sombre than 'Lucia,' and quite as tuneful, is 'Lucrezia Borgia,' once a prime favourite
at Covent Garden, but now rarely heard. Lucrezia Borgia, the wife of Alfonso of Ferrara, has
recognised Gennaro, a young Venetian, as an illegitimate son of her own, and watches over him
with tender interest, though she will not disclose the real relation in which they stand to
one another. Gennaro, taunted by his friends with being a victim of Lucrezia's fascinations,
publicly insults her, and is thereupon condemned to death by the Duke, who is glad of the opportunity
of taking vengeance upon the man whom he believes to be his wife's paramour. Gennaro is poisoned
in the presence of his mother, who, however, directly the Duke's back is turned, gives him
an antidote which restores him to health. In the last act Lucrezia takes comprehensive vengeance
upon the friends of Gennaro, whose taunts still rankle in her bosom, by poisoning all the wine
at a supper party. Unfortunately Gennaro happens to be present, and as this time he refuses
to take an antidote, even though Lucrezia reveals herself as his mother, he expires in her arms.

There is little attempt at dramatic significance in the music of 'Lucrezia Borgia,' but the
score bubbles over with delicious and wholly inappropriate melodies. Occasionally, as in the
final scene, there is a touch of pathos, and sometimes some rather effective concerted music;
but, for the most part, Donizetti was content to write his charming tunes, and to leave all
expression to the singers. The orchestration of his Italian operas is primitive in the extreme,
and amply justifies Wagner's taunt about the 'big guitar.' In works written for foreign theatres
Donizetti took more pains, and 'La Favorite,' produced in Paris in 1840, is in many ways the
strongest of his tragic works. The story is more than usually repulsive. Fernando, a novice
at the convent of St. James of Compostella, is about to take monastic vows, when he catches
sight of a fair penitent, and bids farewell to the Church in order to follow her to court.
She turns out to be Leonora, the mistress of the King, for whose beaux yeux the latter is prepared
to repudiate the Queen and to brave all the terrors of Rome. Fernando finds Leonora ready to
reciprocate his passion, and by her means he obtains a commission in the army. He returns covered
with glory, and is rewarded by the King, who has discovered his connection with Leonora, with
the hand of his cast-off mistress. After the marriage ceremony is over, Fernando hears for
the first time of Leonora's past. He flies to the convent for consolation, followed by his
unfortunate wife, who dies in his arms after she has obtained forgiveness. 'La Favorite' is
more carefully written than was Donizetti's wont, and some of the concerted music is really
dramatic. There is a tradition that the last act, which was an after-thought, was written in
an incredibly short space of time, but it is significant that the beautiful romanza 'Spirto
gentil,' to which the act and indeed the whole opera owes most of its popularity, was transferred
from an earlier and unperformed work, 'Le Duc d'Albe.' It would be waste of time to describe
the plots of any other serious works by this composer. Many of them, such as 'Betly,' 'Linda
di Chamonix,' and 'Anna Bolena,' were successful when produced; but Donizetti aimed merely
at satisfying the prevailing taste of the day, and when a new generation sprang up with different
sympathies from that which had preceded it, the operas which had seemed the most secure of
popularity were soon consigned to oblivion. It is a significant fact that Donizetti's lighter
works have stood the test of time more successfully than his more serious efforts. Though the
grandiose airs and sham tragedy of 'Lucia' have long since ceased to impress us, we can still
take pleasure in the unaffected gaiety of 'La Fille du Régiment' and 'Don Pasquale.' These
and many similar works were written currente calamo, and though their intrinsic musical interest
is of course very slight, they are totally free from the ponderous affectations of the composer's
serious operas. Here we see Donizetti at his best, because here he writes according to the
natural dictates of his imagination, not in accordance with the foolish or depraved taste of
fashionable connoisseurs.

The scene of 'La Fille du Régiment' is laid in the Tyrol, where Tonio, a peasant, has had the
good fortune to save the life of Marie, the vivandière of a French regiment. Many years before
the opening of the story, Marie had been found upon the battle-field by Sergeant Sulpice, and
adopted by the regiment whose name she bears. The regiment, as a body, has the right of disposing
of her hand in marriage, and when Tonio presses his claim, which is not disallowed by the heroine,
it is decided that he shall be allowed to marry her if he will consent to join the regiment.
Everything goes well, when a local grandee in the shape of the Marchioness Berkenfeld suddenly
appears, identifies Marie as her niece by means of a letter which was found upon her by the
Sergeant, and carries her off to her castle hard by, leaving the unfortunate Tonio to the bitterest
reflections. In the second act Marie is at the castle of Berkenfeld though by no means at ease
in her unaccustomed surroundings. Her efforts to imbibe the principles of etiquette are pleasantly
interrupted by the unexpected arrival of the regiment, with Tonio now as Colonel at its head.
But even his promotion will not soften the Marchioness's heart. She discloses the fact that
she is in reality Marie's mother, and adjures her by her filial respect to give up the thought
of her low-born lover. Marie consents in an agony of grief. The lovers part with many tears,
and at the psychological moment the Marchioness relents, and all ends happily.

Even slighter in scope is 'Don Pasquale,' a brilliant trifle, written for the Théâtre des Italiens
in Paris, and there sung for the first time in 1843, by Grisi, Mario, Tamburini, and Lablache.
The story turns upon a trick played by Ernesto and Norina, two young lovers, upon the uncle
and guardian of the former, Don Pasquale. Ernesto will not marry to please his uncle, so the
old gentleman determines to marry himself. Norina is introduced to Don Pasquale as his sister
by a certain Dr. Malatesta, a friend of Ernesto, and the amorous old gentleman at once succumbs
to her charms. No sooner is the marriage contract signed than Norina, acting upon her instructions,
launches forth upon a career of unexampled shrewishness, extravagance, and flirtation. Her
poor old lover is distracted by her wild vagaries, and in the end is only too thankful to hand
her over bag and baggage to his nephew, who generously consents to relieve his uncle of his
unlucky bargain.

The music of 'L'Elisir d'Amore' is not inferior to that of 'Don Pasquale' in sparkle and brilliancy,
but the plot is tame and childish compared to the bustle and intrigue of the latter work. It
turns upon a sham love potion sold by a travelling quack to Nemorino, a country lout who is
in love with Adina, the local beauty. Adina is divided between the attractions of Nemorino
and those of the Sergeant Belcore, who is quartered in the village. In order to get money to
pay for the potion Nemorino joins the army, and this proof of his devotion has so convincing
an effect upon the affections of Adina that she discards the soldier and bestows her hand upon
Nemorino. To this silly plot is allied some of the most delightful music Donizetti ever wrote.
Fresh, graceful, and occasionally tender, it forms the happiest contrast to the grandiose nonsense
which the composer was in the habit of turning out to suit the vitiated taste of the day, and
is a convincing proof that if he had been permitted to exercise his talent in a congenial sphere,
Donizetti would be entitled to rank with the most successful followers of Cimarosa and Paisiello,
instead of being degraded to the rank of a mere purveyor to the manufacturers of barrel-organs.

Different as was the talent of Bellini (1802-1835) from that of Donizetti, his fate has been
the same. After holding the ear of Europe for many years, he has fallen at the present time
completely into the background, and outside the frontiers of Italy his works are rarely heard.
Bellini had no pretensions to dramatic power. His genius was purely elegiac in tone, and he
relied entirely for the effect which he intended to produce upon the luscious beauty of his
melodies, into which, it must be admitted, the great singers of his time contrived to infuse
a surprising amount of dramatic force.

The story of 'La Sonnambula' is rather foolish, but it suited Bellini's idyllic style, and
the work is perhaps the happiest example of his naïf charm. Amina, a rustic damsel, betrothed
to Elvino, is a confirmed somnambulist, and her nocturnal peregrinations have given the village
in which she dwells the reputation of being haunted by a spectre. One night, Amina, while walking
in her sleep, enters the chamber in the inn where Rodolfo, the young lord of the village, happens
to be located. There she is discovered by Lisa, the landlady, to the scandal of the neighbourhood
and the shame of her lover Elvino, who casts her from him and at once makes over his affections
to the landlady. Amina's sorrow and despair make her more restless than ever, and the following
night she is seen walking out of a window of the mill in which she lives, and crossing the
stream by a frail bridge which totters beneath her weight. Providence guards her steps, and
she reaches solid earth in safety, where Elvino is waiting to receive her, fully convinced
of her innocence. Bellini's music is quite the reverse of dramatic, but the melodies throughout
'La Sonnambula' are graceful and tender, and in the closing scene he rises to real pathos.

In 'Norma' Bellini had the advantage of treating a libretto of great power and beauty, the
work of the poet Romani, a tragedy which, both in sentiment and diction, contrasts very strongly
with the ungrammatical balderdash which composers are so often called upon to set to music.
Norma, the high priestess of the Druids, forgetting her faith and the traditions of her race,
has secretly wedded Pollio, a Roman general, and borne him two children. In spite of the sacrifices
which she has made for his sake, he proves faithless, and seduces Adalgisa, one of the virgins
of the temple, who has consented to abandon her people and her country and to fly with him
to Rome. Before leaving her home, Adalgisa, ignorant of the connection between Norma and Pollio,
reveals her secret to the priestess, and begs for absolution from her vows. At the news of
her husband's faithlessness Norma's fury breaks forth, and her indignation is equalled by that
of Adalgisa, who is furious at finding herself the mere plaything of a profligate. Pollio,
maddened by passion, endeavours to tear Adalgisa from the altar of the temple, but is checked
by Norma, who strikes the sacred shield and calls the Druids to arms. Pollio, now a prisoner,
is brought before her for judgment, and she gives him a last choice, to renounce Adalgisa or
to die. He refuses to give up his love, whereupon Norma, in a passion of self-sacrifice, tears
the sacred wreath from her own brow and declares herself the guilty one. Pollio is touched
by her magnanimity, and together they ascend the funeral pyre, in its flames to be cleansed
from earthly sin.

It would be too much to assert that Bellini has risen to the level of this noble subject, but
parts of his score have a fervour and a dignity which might scarcely have been expected from
the composer of 'La Sonnambula.' We may smile now at the trio between Pollio and his two victims,
in which the extremes of fury and indignation are expressed by a lilting tune in 9-8 time,
but it is impossible to deny the truth and beauty of Norma's farewell to her children, and
in several other scenes there are evidences of real dramatic feeling, if not of the power to
express it. It is important to remember, in discussing the works of Bellini and the other composers
of his school, that in their day the art of singing was cultivated to a far higher pitch of
perfection than is now the case. Consequently the composer felt that he had done his duty if,
even in situations of the most tragic import, he provided his executant with a broad, even
melody. Into this the consummate art of the singer could infuse every gradation of feeling.
The composer presented a blank canvas, upon which the artist painted the required picture.

Unlike that of 'Norma,' the libretto of 'I Puritani,' Bellini's last opera, is a dull and confused
affair. The scene is laid in England, apparently at the time of the Civil War, but the history
and chronology throughout are of the vaguest description. Queen Henrietta Maria is imprisoned
in the fortress of Plymouth, under the guardianship of Lord Walton, the Parliamentary leader,
whose daughter Elvira loves Lord Arthur Talbot, a young Cavalier, Elvira's tears and entreaties
have so far softened her stern parent that Arthur is to be admitted into the castle in order
that the nuptials may be celebrated. He takes advantage of the situation to effect the escape
of the Queen, disguising her in Elvira's bridal veil. When his treachery is discovered Arthur
is at once proscribed, and Elvira, believing him to be faithless, loses her reason. Later in
the opera Arthur contrives to meet Elvira and explains his conduct satisfactorily, but their
interview is cut short by a party of Puritans, who arrest him. He is condemned to be shot on
the spot, but, before the sentence can be carried out, a messenger arrives with the news of
the king's defeat and the pardon of Arthur. Elvira, whose insanity has throughout been of an
eminently harmless description, at once recovers her reason, and everything ends happily.

'I Puritani' is in some respects Bellini's best work. Foolish as the libretto is, the bitterest
opponent of Italian cantilena could scarcely refuse to acknowledge the pathetic beauty of many
of the songs. It is a matter for regret, as well as for some surprise, that Bellini's works
should now be entirely banished from the Covent Garden repertory, while so many inferior operas
are still retained. In an age of fustian and balderdash, Bellini stood apart, a tender and
pathetic figure, with no pretensions to science, but gifted with a command of melody as copious,
unaffected, and sincere as has ever fallen to the lot of a composer for the stage.

The other Italian writers of this period may be briefly dismissed, since they did little but
reproduce the salient features of their more famous contemporaries in a diluted form. Mercadante
(1797-1870) lived to an advanced age, and wrote many operas, comic and serious, of which the
most successful was 'Il Giuramento,' a gloomy story of love and revenge, treated with a certain
power of the conventional order, and a good deal of facile melody. Pacini (1796-1867) is principally
known by his 'Saffo,' an imitation of Rossini, which achieved a great success. Vaccai (1790-1848)
also imitated Rossini, but his 'Giulietta e Romeo' has intrinsic merits, which are not to be
despised.

After the days of Rossini, opera buffa fell upon evil days. Although the most famous musicians
of the day did not disdain occasionally to follow in the footsteps of Cimarosa, for the most
part the task of purveying light operas for the smaller theatres of Italy fell into the hands
of second and third rate composers. Donizetti, as we have seen, enriched the repertory of opera
buffa with several masterpieces of gay and brilliant vivacity, but few of the lighter works
of his contemporaries deserve permanent record.

The brothers Ricci, Luigi (1805-1859) and Federico (1809-1877), wrote many operas, both singly
and in collaboration, but 'Crispino e la Comare' is the only one of their works which won anything
like a European reputation. The story is a happy combination of farce and féerie. Crispino,
a half-starved cobbler, is about to throw himself into a well, when La Comare, a fairy, rises
from it and bids him desist. She gives him a purse of gold, and orders him to set up as a doctor,
telling him that when he goes to visit a patient he must look to see whether she is standing
by the bedside. If she is not there, the sick man will recover. Crispino follows her directions,
and speedily becomes famous, but success turns his head, and he is only brought back to his
senses by a strange dream, in which the fairy takes him down to a subterranean cavern where
the lamp of each man's life is burning and he sees his own on the point of expiring. After
this uncomfortable vision he is thankful to find himself still in the bosom of his family,
and the opera ends with his vows of amendment. The music is brilliant and sparkling, and altogether
the little opera is one of the best specimens of opera buffa produced in Italy after the time
of Rossini. The other men who devoted themselves to opera buffa during this period my be briefly
dismissed. Carlo Pedrotti (1817-1893), whose comic opera 'Tutti in Maschera,' after a brilliant
career in Italy, was successfully produced in Paris, and Antonio Cagnoni (1828-1896), were
perhaps the best of them. A version of the latter's 'Papa Martin' was performed in London in
1875, under the name of 'The Porter of Havre.'

CHAPTER VIII

MEYERBEER AND FRENCH OPERA

HÉROLD--MEYERBEER--BERLIOZ--HALÉVY--AUBER

The romantic movement was essentially German in its origin, but its influence was not bounded
by the Rhine. As early as 1824 Weber's 'Freischütz' was performed in Paris, followed a few
years later by 'Oberon' and 'Euryanthe.' French musicians, always susceptible to external influences,
could not but acknowledge the fascination of the romantic school, and the works of Hérold (1791-1833)
show how powerfully the new leaven had acted. But Weber was not the only foreigner at this
time who helped to shape the destiny of French music. The spell of Rossini was too potent for
the plastic Gauls to resist, and to his influence may be traced the most salient features of
the school of opéra comique which is best represented by Auber. Hérold, though divided between
the camps of Germany and Italy, had individuality enough to write music which was independent
of either. Yet it is significant that his last two works--the only two, in fact, which have
survived--represent with singular completeness the two influences which affected French music
most potently during his day. 'Zampa' has been called a French 'Don Giovanni,' but the music
owes far more to Weber than to Mozart, while the fantastic and absurd incidents of the plot
have little of the supernatural terror of Mozart's opera. Zampa is a famous pirate, who, after
having dissipated his fortune and made Italy, generally speaking, too hot to hold him, has
taken to the high seas in self-defence. In his early days he had seduced a girl named Alice
Manfredi, who after his desertion found a home in the house of a Sicilian merchant named Lugano.
There she died, and there Lugano caused a statue to be set up in her honour. When the story
of the opera begins, Lugano is a prisoner in the hands of the redoubtable Zampa. The pirate
himself comes to Sicily to obtain his prisoner's ransom, bringing directions to Lugano's daughter
Camilla to pay him whatever he may ask. Zampa at once falls a victim to the beaux yeux of Camilla,
and demands her hand as the price of her father's safety. Camilla loves Alfonso, a Sicilian
officer, but is prepared to sacrifice herself to save her father. At the marriage feast, Zampa,
recognising the statue of the betrayed Alice, jokingly puts his ring upon her finger, which
immediately closes upon it. The opera ends by the statue claiming Zampa as her own, snatching
him from the arms of Camilla, and descending with him into the abyss.

It would be in vain to look in Hérold's score for an echo of the passion and variety of Mozart,
but much of the music of 'Zampa' is picturesque and effective. Hérold's tunes sound very conventional
after Weber, but there is a good deal of skill in the way they are presented. His orchestration
is of course closely modelled on that of his German prototype, and if it is impossible to say
much for his originality, we can at any rate admire his taste in choosing a model.

'Le Pré aux Clercs' is more popular at the present moment than 'Zampa,' though it is far inferior
in musical interest. If 'Zampa' showed the influence of Weber, 'Le Pré aux Clercs' is redolent
of Rossini. The overture, with its hollow ring of gaiety, strikes the note of Italianism which
echoes throughout the opera. The plot is full of intrigues and conspiracies, and is decidedly
confusing. Mergy, a young Bernese gentleman, aspires to the hand of Isabelle, who is one of
the Queen of Navarre's maids of honour. The Queen favours their love, but the King wishes Isabelle
to marry Comminges, a favourite of his own. The young couple gain their point, and are married
secretly in the chapel of the Pré aux Clercs, but only at the expense of as much plotting and
as many disguises as would furnish the stock-in-trade of half-a-dozen detective romances.

