Some years since a critic of the day, a gentleman well known then in literary circles, showed
me the manuscript of a book recently published,--the work of a popular author. It was handsomely
bound, and was a valuable and desirable possession. It had just been given to him by the author
as an acknowledgment for a laudatory review in one of the leading journals of the day. As I
was expressly asked whether I did not regard such a token as a sign of grace both in the giver
and in the receiver, I said that I thought it should neither have been given nor have been
taken.  My theory was repudiated with scorn, and I was told that I was strait-laced, visionary,
and impracticable!  In all that the damage did not lie in the fact of that one present, but
in the feeling on the part of the critic that his office was not debased by the acceptance
of presents from those whom he criticised. This man was a professional critic, bound by his
contract with certain employers to review such books as were sent to him. How could he, when
he had received a valuable present for praising one book, censure another by the same author?

While I write this I well know that what I say, if it be ever noticed at all, will be taken
as a straining at gnats, as a pretence of honesty, or at any rate as an exaggeration of scruples.
I have said the same thing before, and have been ridiculed for saying it. But none the less
am I sure that English literature generally is suffering much under this evil. All those who
are struggling for success have forced upon them the idea that their strongest efforts should
be made in touting for praise. Those who are not familiar with the lives of authors will hardly
believe how low will be the forms which their struggles will take:--how little presents will
be sent to men who write little articles; how much flattery may be expended even on the keeper
of a circulating library; with what profuse and distant genuflexions approaches are made to
the outside railing of the temple which contains within it the great thunderer of some metropolitan
periodical publication! The evil here is not only that done to the public when interested counsel
is given to them, but extends to the debasement of those who have at any rate considered themselves
fit to provide literature for the public.

I am satisfied that the remedy for this evil must lie in the conscience and deportment of authors
themselves.  If once the feeling could be produced that it is disgraceful for an author to
ask for praise,--and demands for praise are, I think, disgraceful in every walk of life,--the
practice would gradually fall into the hands only of the lowest, and that which is done only
by the lowest soon becomes despicable even to them. The sin, when perpetuated with unflagging
labour, brings with it at best very poor reward. That work of running after critics, editors,
publishers, the keepers of circulating libraries, and their clerks, is very hard, and must
be very disagreeable. He who does it must feel himself to be dishonoured,--or she.  It may
perhaps help to sell an edition, but can never make an author successful.

I think it may be laid down as a golden rule in literature that there should be no intercourse
at all between an author and his critic. The critic, as critic, should not know his author,
nor the author, as author, his critic. As censure should beget no anger, so should praise beget
no gratitude. The young author should feel that criticisms fall upon him as dew or hail from
heaven,--which, as coming from heaven, man accepts as fate. Praise let the author try to obtain
by wholesome effort; censure let him avoid, if possible, by care and industry. But when they
come, let him take them as coming from some source which he cannot influence, and with which
be should not meddle.

