Much also has been already observed concerning the love of our fellow-creatures, and it has
been distinctly stated to be the indispensable, and indeed the characteristic duty of Christians.
It remains, however to be here farther remarked, that this grace can no where be cultivated
with more advantage than at the foot of the cross. No where can our Saviour's dying injunction
to the exercise of this virtue be recollected with more effect; "This is my commandment, that
ye love one another as I have loved you." The view of mankind which is here presented to us,
as having been all involved in one common ruin; and the offer of deliverance held out to all,
by the Son of God's giving of himself up to pay the price of our reconciliation, produce that
sympathy towards our fellow-creatures, which, by the constitution of our nature, seldom fails
to result from the consciousness of an identity of interests and a similarity of fortunes.
Pity for an unthinking world assists this impression. Our enmities soften and melt away: we
are ashamed of thinking much of the petty injuries which we may have suffered, when we consider
what the Son of God, "who did no wrong, neither was guile found in his mouth," patiently underwent.
Our hearts become tender while we contemplate this signal act of loving-kindness. We grow desirous
of imitating what we cannot but admire. A vigorous principle of enlarged and active charity
springs up within us; and we go forth with alacrity, desirous of treading in the steps of our
blessed Master, and of manifesting our gratitude for his unmerited goodness, by bearing each
others burdens, and abounding in the disinterested labours of benevolence.

LOOKING UNTO JESUS!

He was meek and lowly of heart, and from the study of his character we shall best learn the
lessons of humility. Contemplating the work of Redemption, we become more and more impressed
with the sense of our natural darkness, and helplessness, and misery, from which it was requisite
to ransom us at such a price; more and more conscious that we are utterly unworthy of all the
amazing condescension and love which have been manifested towards us; ashamed of the callousness
of our tenderest sensibility, and of the poor returns of our most active services. Considerations
like these, abating our pride and reducing our opinion of ourselves, naturally moderate our
pretensions towards others. We become less disposed to exact that respect for our persons,
and that deference for our authority, which we naturally covet; we less sensibly feel a slight,
and less hotly resent it; we grow less irritable, less prone to be dissatisfied; more soft,
and meek, and courteous, and placable, and condescending. We are not literally required to
practise the same humiliating submissions, to which our blessed Saviour himself was not ashamed
to stoop[102]; but the spirit of the remark applies to us, "the servant is not greater than
his Lord:" and we should especially bear this truth in mind, when the occasion calls upon us
to discharge some duty, or patiently to suffer some ill treatment, whereby our pride will be
wounded, and we are likely to be in some degree degraded from the rank we had possessed in
the world's estimation. At the same time the Sacred Scriptures assuring us, that to the powerful
operations of the Holy Spirit, purchased for us by the death of Christ, we must be indebted
for the success of all our endeavours after improvement in virtue; the conviction of this truth
tends to render us diffident of our own powers, and to suppress the first risings of vanity.
Thus, while we are conducted to heights of virtue no otherwise attainable, due care is taken
to prevent our becoming giddy from our elevation[103]. It is the Scripture characteristic of
the Gospel system, that by it all disposition to exalt ourselves is excluded; and if we really
grow in grace, we shall grow also in humility.

LOOKING UNTO JESUS!

"He endured the cross, despising the shame."--While we steadily contemplate this solemn scene,
that sober frame of spirit is produced within us, which best befits the Christian, militant
here on earth. We become impressed with a sense of the shortness and uncertainty of time, and
that it behoves us to be diligent in making provision for eternity. In such a temper of mind,
the pomps and vanities of life are cast behind us as the baubles of children.--We lose our
relish for the frolics of gaiety, the race of ambition, or the grosser gratifications of voluptuousness.
In the case even of those objects, which may more justly claim the attention of reasonable
and immortal beings; in our family arrangements, in our plans of life, in our schemes of business,
we become, without relinquishing the path of duty, more moderate in pursuit, and more indifferent
about the issue. Here also we learn to correct the world's false estimate of things, and to
"look through the shallowness of earthly grandeur[104];" to venerate what is truly excellent
and noble, though under a despised and degraded form; and to cultivate within ourselves that
true magnanimity, which can make us rise superior to the smiles or frowns of this world; that
dignified composure of soul which no earthly incidents can destroy or ruffle. Instead of repining
at any of the little occasional inconveniences we may meet with in our passage through life;
we are almost ashamed of the multiplied comforts and enjoyments of our condition, when we think
of him, who, though "the Lord of glory," "had not where to lay his head." And if it be our
lot to undergo evils of more than ordinary magnitude, we are animated under them by reflecting,
that we are hereby more conformed to the example of our blessed Master: though we must ever
recollect one important difference, that the sufferings of Christ were voluntarily borne for
our benefit, and were probably far more exquisitely agonizing than any which we are called
upon to undergo. Besides, it must be a solid support to us amidst all our troubles to know,
that they do not happen to us by chance; that they are not even merely the punishment of sin;
but that they are the dispensations of a kind Providence, and sent on messages of mercy.--"The
cup that our Father hath given us, shall we not drink it?"--"Blessed Saviour! by the bitterness
of thy pains we may estimate the force of thy love; we are sure of thy kindness and compassion;
thou wouldst not willingly call on us to suffer; thou hast declared unto us, that all things
shall finally work together for good to them that love thee; and therefore, if thou so ordainest
it, welcome disappointment and poverty, welcome sickness and pain, welcome even shame, and
contempt, and calumny. If this be a rough and thorny path, it is one in which thou hast gone
before us. Where we see thy footsteps we cannot repine. Meanwhile, thou wilt support us with
the consolations of thy grace; and even here thou canst more than compensate to us for any
temporal sufferings, by the possession of that peace, which the world can neither give nor
take away."

LOOKING UNTO JESUS! From the scene of our Saviour's weakness and degradation, we follow him,
in idea, into the realms of glory, where "he is on the right hand of God; angels, and principalities,
and powers being made subject unto him."--But though changed in place, yet not in nature, he
is still full of sympathy and love; and having died "to save his people from their sins," "he
ever liveth to make intercession for them." Cheered by this animating view, the Christian's
fainting spirits revive. Under the heaviest burdens he feels his strength recruited; and when
all around him is dark and stormy, he can lift up an eye to Heaven, radiant with hope, and
glistening with gratitude. At such a season, no dangers can alarm, no opposition can move,
no provocations can irritate. He may almost adopt, as the language of his sober exultation,
what in the philosopher was but an idle rant: and, considering that it is only the garment
of mortality which is subject to the rents of fortune; while his spirit, cheered with the divine
support, keeps its place within, secure and unassailable, he can sometimes almost triumph at
the stake, or on the scaffold, and cry out amidst the severest buffets of adversity, "Thou
beatest but the case of Anaxarchus." But it is rarely that the Christian is elevated with this
"joy unspeakable and full of glory:" he even lends himself to these views with moderation and
reserve. Often, alas! emotions of another kind fill him with grief and confusion: and conscious
of having acted unworthy of his high calling, perhaps of having exposed himself to the just
censure of a world ready enough to spy out his infirmities, he seems to himself almost "to
have crucified the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame." But let neither his joys
intoxicate, nor his sorrows too much depress him. Let him still remember that his chief business
while on earth is not to meditate, but to act; that the seeds of moral corruption are apt to
spring up within him, and that it is requisite for him to watch over his own heart with incessant
care; that he is to discharge with fidelity the duties of his particular station, and to conduct
himself, according to his measure, after the example of his blessed Master, whose meat and
drink it was to do the work of his heavenly Father; that he is diligently to cultivate the
talents with which God has entrusted him, and assiduously to employ them in doing justice and
shewing mercy, while he guards against the assaults of any internal enemy. In short, he is
to demean himself, in all the common affairs of life, like an accountable creature, who, in
correspondence with the Scripture character of Christians, is "waiting for the coming of the
Lord Jesus Christ." Often therefore he questions himself, "Am I employing my time, my fortune,
my bodily and mental powers, so as to be able to 'render up my account with joy, and not with
grief?' Am I 'adorning the doctrine of God my Saviour in all things;' and proving that the
servants of Christ, animated by a principle of filial affection, which renders their work a
service of perfect freedom, are capable of as active and as persevering exertions, as the votaries
of fame, or the slaves of ambition, or the drudges of avarice?"

Thus, without interruption to his labours, he may interpose occasional thoughts of things unseen;
and amidst the many little intervals of business, may calmly look upwards to the heavenly Advocate,
who is ever pleading the cause of his people, and obtaining for them needful supplies of grace
and consolation. It is these realizing views, which give the Christian a relish for the worship
and service of the heavenly world.

Thus (never let it be forgotten) the main distinction between real Christianity, and the system
of the bulk of nominal Christians, chiefly consists in the different place which is assigned
in the two schemes to the peculiar doctrines of the Gospel. These, in the scheme of nominal
Christians, if admitted at all, appear but like the stars of the firmament to the ordinary
eye. Those splendid luminaries draw forth perhaps occasionally a transient expression of admiration,
when we behold their beauty, or hear of their distances, magnitudes, or properties: now and
then too we are led, perhaps, to muse upon their possible uses: but however curious as subjects
of speculation, after all, it must be confessed, they twinkle to the common observer with a
vain and "idle" lustre; and except in the dreams of the astrologer, have no influence on human
happiness, or any concern with the course and order of the world. But to the real Christian,
on the contrary, THESE peculiar doctrines constitute the center to which he gravitates! the
very sun of his system! the soul of the world! the origin of all that is excellent and lovely!
the source of light, and life, and motion, and genial warmth, and plastic energy! Dim is the
light of reason, and cold and comfortless our state, while left to her unassisted guidance.
Even the Old Testament itself, though a revelation from Heaven, shines but with feeble and
scanty rays. Argument which results thence in Proof of its divine Origin.

The writer of the present work, having now completed a faint delineation of the leading features
of real Christianity, may be permitted to suspend for a few moments the farther execution of
his plan, for the purpose of pointing out some excellences which she really possesses; but
which, as they are not to be found in that superficial system which so unworthily usurps her
name, appear scarcely to have attracted sufficient notice. If he should seem to be deviating
from the plan which he proposed to himself, he would suggest as his excuse; that the observations
which he is about to offer will furnish a strong argument, in favour of the correctness of
his preceding delineation of Christianity, since she will now appear to exhibit more clearly,
than as she is usually drawn, the characters of her Divine original.

It holds true, indeed, in the case of Christianity, as in that of all the works of God, that
though a superficial and cursory view cannot fail to discover to us somewhat of their beauty;
yet, when on a more careful and accurate scrutiny we become better acquainted with their properties,
we become also more deeply impressed by a conviction of their excellence. We may begin by referring
to the last chapter for an instance of the truth of this assertion. Therein was pointed out
that intimate connection, that perfect harmony, between the leading doctrines and the practical
precepts of Christianity, which is apt to escape the attention of the ordinary eye.

It may not be improper also to remark, though the position be so obvious as almost to render
the statement of it needless, that there is the same close connection and perfect harmony in
the leading doctrines of Christianity among each other. It is self-evident, that the corruption
of human nature, that our reconciliation to God by the atonement of Christ, and that the restoration
of our primitive dignity by the sanctifying influence of the Holy Spirit, are all parts of
one whole, united in close dependence and mutual congruity.

Perhaps, however, it has not been sufficiently noticed, that in the chief practical precepts
of Christianity, there is the same essential agreement, the same mutual dependency of one upon
another. Let us survey this fresh instance of the wisdom of that system, which is the only
solid foundation of our present or future happiness.

The virtues most strongly and repeatedly enjoined in Scripture, and by our progress in which
we may best measure our advancement in holiness, are the fear and love of God and of Christ;
love, kindness, and meekness towards our fellow-creatures; indifference to the possessions
and events of this life, in comparison with our concern about eternal things; self-denial,
and humility.

It has been already pointed out in many particulars, how essentially such of these Christian
graces as respect the Divine Being are connected with those, which have more directly for their
objects our fellow-creatures and ourselves. But in the case of these two last descriptions
of Christian graces; the more attentively we consider them with reference to the acknowledged
principles of human nature, and to indisputable facts, the more we shall be convinced that
they afford mutual aid towards the acquisition of each other; and that when acquired, they
all harmonize with each other in perfect and essential union. This truth may perhaps be sufficiently
apparent from what has been already remarked; but it may not be useless to dwell on it a little
more in detail. Take then the instances of loving-kindness and meekness towards others; and
observe the solid foundation which is laid for them in self-denial, in moderation as to the
good things of this life, and in humility. The chief causes of enmity among men are, pride
and self-importance, the high opinion which men entertain of themselves, and the consequent
deference which they exact from others: the over-valuation of worldly possessions and of worldly
honours, and in consequence, a too eager competition for them. The rough edges of one man rub
against those of another, if the expression may be allowed; and the friction is often such
as to injure the works, and disturb the just arrangements and regular motions of the social
machine. But by Christianity all these roughnesses are filed down: every wheel rolls round
smoothly in the performance of its appointed function, and there is nothing to retard the several
movements, or break in upon the general order. The religious system indeed of the bulk of nominal
Christians is satisfied with some tolerable appearances of virtue: and accordingly, while it
recommends love and beneficence, it tolerates, as has been shewn, pride and vanity in many
cases; it even countenances and commends the excessive valuation of character; and at least
allows a man's whole soul to be absorbed in the pursuit of the object which he is following,
be it what it may of personal or professional success. But though these latter qualities may,
for the most part, fairly enough consist with a soft exterior and courtly demeanor, they cannot
so well accord with the genuine internal principle of love. Some cause of discontent, some
ground of jealousy or of envy will arise, some suspicion will corrode, some disappointment
will sour, some slight or calumny will irritate and provoke reprisals. In the higher walks
of life, indeed, we learn to disguise our emotions; but such will be the real inward feelings
of the soul, and they will frequently betray themselves when we are off our guard, or when
we are not likely to be disparaged by the discovery. This state of the higher orders, in which
men are scuffling eagerly for the same objects, and wearing all the while such an appearance
of sweetness and complacency, has often appeared to me to be not ill illustrated by the image
of a gaming table. There, every man is intent only on his own profit; the good success of one
is the ill success of another, and therefore the general state of mind of the parties engaged
may be pretty well conjectured. All this, however, does not prevent, in well-bred societies,
an exterior of perfect gentleness and good humour. But let the same employment be carried on
among the lower orders, who are not so well schooled in the art of disguising their feelings;
or in places where, by general connivance, people are allowed to give vent to their real emotions;
and every passion will display itself, by which the "human face divine" can be distorted and
deformed. For those who never have been present at so humiliating a scene, the pencil of Hogarth
has provided a representation of it, which is scarcely exaggerated; and the horrid name[105],
by which it is familiarly known among its frequenters, sufficiently attests the fidelity of
its resemblance.

But Christianity is not satisfied with producing merely the specious guise of virtue. She requires
the substantial reality, which may stand the scrutinizing eye of that Being "who searches the
heart." Meaning therefore that the Christian should live and breathe; in an atmosphere, as
it were, of benevolence, she forbids whatever can tend to obstruct its diffusion or vitiate
its purity. It is on this principle that Emulation is forbidden: for, besides that this passion
almost insensibly degenerates into envy, and that it derives its origin chiefly from pride
and a desire of self-exaltation; how can we easily love our neighbour as ourselves, if we consider
him at the same time our rival, and are intent upon surpassing him in the pursuit of whatever
is the subject of our competition?

Christianity, again, teaches us not to set our hearts on earthly possessions and earthly honours;
and thereby provides for our really loving, or even cordially forgiving, those who have been
more successful than ourselves in the attainment of them, or who have even designedly thwarted
us in the pursuit. "Let the rich," says the Apostle, "rejoice in that he is brought low." How
can he who means to attempt, in any degree, to obey this precept, be irreconcilably hostile
towards any one who may have been instrumental in his depression?

Christianity also teaches us not to prize human estimation at a very high rate; and thereby
provides for the practice of her injunction, to love from the heart those who, justly or unjustly,
may have attacked our reputation, and wounded our character. She commands not the shew, but
the reality of meekness and gentleness; and by thus taking away the aliment of anger and the
fomenters of discord, she provides for the maintenance of peace, and the restoration of good
temper among men, when it may have sustained a temporary interruption.

It is another capital excellence of Christianity, that she values moral attainments at a far
higher rate than intellectual acquisitions, and proposes to conduct her followers to the heights
of virtue rather than of knowledge. On the contrary, most of the false religious systems which
have prevailed in the world, have proposed to reward the labour of their votary, by drawing
aside the veil which concealed from the vulgar eye their hidden mysteries, and by introducing
him to the knowledge of their deeper and more sacred doctrines.

This is eminently the case in the Hindoo, and in the Mahometan Religion, in that of China,
and, for the most part, in the various modifications of ancient Paganism. In systems which
proceed on this principle, it is obvious that the bulk of mankind can never make any great
proficiency. There was accordingly, among the nations of antiquity, one system, whatever it
was, for the learned, and another for the illiterate. Many of the philosophers spoke out, and
professed to keep the lower orders in ignorance for the general good; plainly suggesting that
the bulk of mankind was to be considered as almost of an inferior species. Aristotle himself
countenanced this opinion. An opposite mode of proceeding naturally belongs to Christianity,
which without distinction professes an equal regard for all human beings, and which was characterized
by her first Promulgator as the messenger of "glad tidings to the poor."

But her preference of moral to intellectual excellence is not to be praised, only because it
is congenial with her general character, and suitable to the ends which she professes to have
in view. It is the part of true wisdom to endeavour to excel there, where we may really attain
to excellence. This consideration might be alone sufficient to direct our efforts to the acquisition
of virtue rather than of knowledge.--How limited is the range of the greatest human abilities!
how scanty the stores of the richest human knowledge! Those who undeniably have held the first
rank, both for natural and acquired endowments, instead of thinking their pre-eminence a just
ground of self-exaltation, have commonly been the most forward to confess that their views
were bounded and their attainments moderate. Had they indeed been less candid, this is a discovery
which we could not have failed to make of ourselves. Experience daily furnishes us with examples
of weakness, and short-sightedness, and error, in the wisest and the most learned of men, which
might serve to confound the pride of human wisdom.

Not so in morals.--Made at first in the likeness of God, and still bearing about us some faint
traces of our high original, we are offered by our blessed Redeemer the means of purifying
ourselves from our corruptions, and of once more regaining the image of our Heavenly Father[106].
In love, the compendious expression for almost every virtue, in fortitude under all its forms,
in justice, in humility, and in all the other graces of the Christian character, we are made
capable of attaining to heights of real elevation: and were we but faithful in the use of the
means of grace which we enjoy; the operations of the Holy Spirit, prompting and aiding our
diligent endeavours, would infallibly crown our labours with success, and make us partakers
of a Divine nature. The writer has himself known some who have been instances of the truth
of this remark. To the memory of one,[107] now no more, may he be permitted to offer the last
tribute of respectful friendship? His course, short but laborious, has at length terminated
in a better world; and his luminous tract still shines in the sight, and animates the efforts
of all who knew him, and "marshals them the way" to Heavenly glory. Let me not be thought to
undervalue any of the gifts of God, or of the fruits of human exertion: but let not these be
prized beyond their proper worth. If one of those little industrious reptiles, to which we
have been well sent for a lesson of diligence and foresight, were to pride itself upon its
strength, because it could carry off a larger grain of wheat than any other of its fellow-ants;
should we not laugh at the vanity which could be highly gratified with such a contemptible
pre-eminence? And is it far different to the eye of reason, when man, weak, short-sighted man,
is vain of surpassing others in knowledge, in which at best his progress must be so limited;
forgetting the true dignity of his nature, and the path which would conduct him to real excellence?

The unparalleled value of the precepts of Christianity ought not be passed over altogether
unnoticed in this place, though it be needless to dwell on it; since it has been often justly
recognized and asserted, and has in some points been ably illustrated, and powerfully enforced
by the masterly pen of a late writer. It is by no means however the design of this little work
to attempt to trace the various excellencies of Christianity; but it may not have been improper
to point out a few particulars, which, in the course of investigation, have naturally fallen
under our notice, and hitherto perhaps may scarcely have been enough regarded. Every such instance,
it should always be remembered, is a fresh proof of Christianity being a revelation from God.

It is still less, however, the intention of the writer to attempt to vindicate the Divine origin
of our Holy Religion. This task has often been executed by far abler advocates. In particular,
every Christian, with whatever reserves his commendations must be disqualified, should be forward
to confess his obligations on this head to the author before alluded to; whose uncommon acuteness
has enabled him, in a field already so much trodden, to discover arguments which had eluded
the observation of all by whom he was preceded, and whose unequalled perspicuity puts his reader
in complete possession of the fruits of his sagacity. Anxious, however, in my little measure,
to contribute to the support of this great cause, may it be permitted me to state one argument,
which impresses my mind with particular force. This is, the great variety of the kinds of evidence
which have been adduced in proof of Christianity, and the confirmation thereby afforded of
its truth:--the proof from prophecy--from miracles--from the character of Christ--from that
of his Apostles--from the nature of the doctrines of Christianity--from the nature and excellence
of her practical precepts--from the accordance we have lately pointed out between the doctrinal
and practical system of Christianity, whether considered each in itself or in their mutual
relation to each other--from other species of internal evidence, afforded in the more abundance
in proportion as the sacred records have been scrutinized with greater care--from the account
of co-temporary or nearly co-temporary writers--from the impossibility of accounting on any
other supposition, than that of the truth of Christianity, for its promulgation and early prevalence:
these and other lines of argument have all been brought forward and ably urged by different
writers, in proportion as they have struck the minds of different observers more or less forcibly.
Now, granting that some obscure and illiterate men, residing in a distant province of the Roman
empire, had plotted to impose a forgery upon the world; though some foundation for the imposture
might, and indeed must, have been attempted to be laid; it seems, at least to my understanding,
morally impossible that so many different species of proofs, and all so strong, should have
lent their concurrent aid, and have united their joint force in the establishment of the falsehood.
It may assist the reader in estimating the value of this argument, to consider upon how different
a footing, in this respect, has rested every other religious system, without exception, which
was ever proposed to the world; and, indeed, every other historical fact, of which the truth
has been at all contested.

It may not be altogether improper to remind the reader, that hitherto our discussion has been
concerning the prevailing Religious opinions merely of professed Christians: no longer confining
ourselves to persons of this description, let us now extend our inquiry, and briefly investigate
the general state of Christianity in this country.

The tendency of Religion in general to promote the temporal well-being of political communities,
is a fact which depends on such obvious and undeniable principles, and which is so forcibly
inculcated by the history of all ages, that there can be no necessity for entering into a formal
proof of its truth. It has indeed been maintained, not merely by Schoolmen and Divines, but
by the most celebrated philosophers, and moralists, and politicians of every age.

The peculiar excellence in this respect also of Christianity, considered independently of its
truth or falsehood, has been recognized by many writers, who, to say the least, were not disposed
to exaggerate its merits. Either or both of these propositions being admitted, the state of
Religion in a country at any given period, not to mention its connection with the eternal happiness
of the inhabitants, immediately becomes a question of great political importance: and in particular
it must be material to ascertain whether Religion be in an advancing or in a declining state;
and if the latter be the case, whether there be any practicable means for preventing at least
its farther declension.

If the representations contained in the preceding chapters, of the state of Christianity among
the bulk of professed Christians, be not very erroneous; they may well excite serious apprehension
in the mind of every reader, when considered merely in a political view. And this apprehension
would be encreased, if there should appear reason to believe that, for some time past, Religion
has been on the decline amongst us, and that it continues to decline at the present moment.

When it is proposed, however, to inquire into the actual state of Religion in any country,
and in particular to compare that state with its condition at any former period; there is one
preliminary observation to be made, if we would not be liable to gross error. There exists,
established by tacit content, in every country, what may be called a general standard or tone
of morals, varying in the same community at different periods, and different at the same period
in different ranks and situations in society. Whoever falls below this standard, and, not unfrequently,
whoever also rises above it, offending against this general rule, suffers proportionably in
the general estimation. Thus a regard for character, which, as was formerly remarked, is commonly
the grand governing principle among men, becomes to a certain degree, though no farther, an
incitement to morality and virtue. It follows of course, that where the practice does no more
than come up to the required level, it will be no sufficient evidence of the existence, much
less will it furnish any just measure of the force, of a real internal principle of Religion.
Christians, Jews, Turks, Infidels, and Heretics, persons of ten thousand different sorts of
passions and opinions, being members at the same time of the same community, and all conscious
that they will be examined by this same standard, will regulate their conduct accordingly,
and, with no great difference, will all adjust themselves to the required measure.

It must also be remarked, that the causes which tend to raise or to depress this standard,
commonly produce their effects by slow and almost insensible degrees; and that it often continues
for some time nearly the same, when the circumstances, by which it was fixed, have materially
altered.

It is a truth which will hardly be contested, that Christianity, whenever it has at all prevailed,
has raised the general standard of morals to a height before unknown. Some actions, which among
the ancients were scarcely held to be blemishes in the most excellent characters, have been
justly considered by the laws of every Christian community, as meriting the severest punishments.
In other instances, virtues formerly rare have become common; and in particular a merciful
and courteous temper has softened the rugged manners, and humanized the brutal ferocity prevalent
among the most polished nations of the heathen world. But from what has been recently observed,
it is manifest, that, so far as external appearances are concerned, these effects, when once
produced by Christianity, are produced alike in those who deny and in those who admit her divine
original; I had almost said in those who reject and those who cordially embrace the doctrines
of the Gospel: and these effects might and probably would remain for a while, without any great
apparent alteration, however her spirit might languish, or even her authority decline. The
form of the temple, as was once beautifully remarked, may continue, when the dii tutelares
have left it. When we are inquiring therefore into the real state of Christianity at any period;
if we would not be deceived in this important investigation, it becomes us to be so much the
more careful not to take up with superficial appearances.

It may perhaps help us to ascertain the advancing or declining state of Christianity in Great
Britain at the present moment; and still more to discover some of the causes by which that
state has been produced, to employ a little time in considering what might naturally be expected
to be its actual situation; what advantages or disadvantages such a religion might be expected
to derive, from the circumstances in which it has been placed among us, and from those in which
it still continues.

Experience warrants, and reason justifies and explains the assertion, that Persecution generally
tends to quicken the vigour and extend the prevalence of the opinions which she would eradicate.
For the peace of mankind, it has grown, at length almost into an axiom, that "her devilish
engine back recoils upon herself." Christianity especially has always thriven under persecution.
At such a season she has no lukewarm professors; no adherents concerning whom it is doubtful
to what party they belong. The Christian is then reminded at every turn, that his Master's
kingdom is not of this world. When all on earth wears a black and threatening aspect, he looks
up to heaven for consolation; he learns practically to consider himself as a pilgrim and stranger.
He then cleaves to fundamentals, and examines well his foundation, as at the hour of death.
When Religion is in a state of external quiet and prosperity, the contrary of all this naturally
takes place. The soldiers of the church militant then forget that they are in a state of warfare.
Their ardour slackens, their zeal languishes. Like a colony long settled in a strange country[108],
they are gradually assimilated in features, and demeanour, and language, to the native inhabitants,
till at length almost every vestige of peculiarity dies away.

If, in general, persecution and prosperity be productive respectively of these opposite effects;
this circumstance alone might teach us what expectations to form concerning the state of Christianity
in this country, where she has long been embodied in an establishment, which is intimately
blended, and is generally and justly believed to have a common interest with our civil institutions;
which is liberally, though by no means too liberally, endowed, and, not more favoured in wealth
than dignity, has been allowed "to exalt her mitred front in courts and parliaments:" an establishment--the
offices in which are extremely numerous, and these, not like the priesthood of the Jews, filled
up from a particular race, or, like that of the Hindoos, held by a separate cast in entailed
succession; but supplied from every class, and branching by its widely extended ramifications
into almost every individual family in the community: an establishment--of which the ministers
are not, like the Roman Catholic clergy, debarred from forming matrimonial ties, but are allowed
to unite themselves, and multiply their holdings to the general mass of the community by the
close bonds of family connection; not like some of the severer of the religious orders, immured
in colleges and monasteries, but, both by law and custom, permitted to mix without restraint
in all the intercourses of society.

