We have already alluded to Venetian architecture as being parallel in origin and tendency to
our own, and much can be gained, we believe, by a careful examination of what it accomplished.
Not that we ought to copy, line for line, the doge's palace or the Casa d'Oro--the arabesque
arcade, or the Gothic balcony--that would only be following the well-worn rut of imitation.
We are not to study the result, but the cause. For the causes that produced the style in question
were not unlike what we find at home to-day. A commercial republic, there was the same liberty
of expression--the same preponderance of the individual over the national; and there, as here,
are we attracted rather by the elegance of independent units than by any general unity of design.

But the growth of art in Venice (we ask special attention) was due to her central situation,
and the simultaneous influx of foreign elements. It was her commerce that made Venice great:
her glory came and departed with it. Witnessing, as she did, the development of all the mediæval
styles, she became--geographically and historically--the metropolis of architecture.

At this transition state, through which Venice passed so nobly, have we now arrived. We have
collected our materials, and piled them up together, but just as all seems most propitious,
le mouvement s'arrête, the materials will not coalesce. The brass and the silver, the iron
and the gold, are all in the crucible, but there is no fusion, only a discordant clash.

Alas! there is no heat. We are not warmed, as yet, with any love for art. We are too much absorbed
in the rapid accumulation of wealth, or the passing excitement of the hour, to attend to anything
that is noble or honest or beautiful. And now that devastating war is sweeping through the
land and clogging the wheels of progress, we are learning terrible lessons; but, with experience
for our teacher, learning them well. Where war prevails, civilization for the time must stand
still. Inter arma silent--artes. And so long as we consider art a marketable commodity, and
consign it, like merchandise, to soulless builders, so long will it remain in hopeless embryo.
Only by taking a personal interest in it can we hope to make it our own.

So much for what we have done. There is little to be proud of, and little, we hope, that will
influence our future art. To which we now turn our attention.

To begin with, great public buildings will never form a distinguishing feature of American
architecture. It is to be preeminently a domestic style. Herein shall we differ from the European
nations, for in art, as in politics, the people are the rulers. It is discouraging, at first
thought, to reflect that no such magnificent architectural combinations as those of the French
capital can ever find place in an American city. They are grand, they are superb, these endless
successions of palaces and gardens and triumphal arches, with groves and fountains all in perfect
symmetry, and well-balanced vistas radiating in all directions; but they are the result of
centuries of despotism--of the impoverishment of the many and the aggrandizement of the few.
This, we hope, is not to be the fashion in America. It is true that the ground plan for the
city of Washington exhibits a design analogous to the above, but we think it will be a long
time before it exists elsewhere than on the map. The Greeks and Romans, we know, confined their
efforts to public buildings, but that was their business. They served their Governments, but
our Government serves us: the spirit of the age points in an opposite direction. Since we are
so fond of the classic, why not have chariots for carriages, and triremes instead of gunboats
and steamers?

Our real style will first appear in our residences and warehouses, in our banks and hotels
and railroad depots. It sounds odd, but it is manifestly so to be. We are a commercial republic.
Old European palaces and cathedrals are doubtless very grand, and--for those who need such
things--most excellent models. But with us the private element already predominates; we only
need to begin honestly, and the thing is half done.

Our national dread of Gothic, except it be for church purposes, should be done away with. The
Gothic principle, we mean; the style we may follow or may not. But to be sincere and constructive,
to build with a purpose, we must do as did the mediæval builders. In their hands, our daguerrean
sky-lights and shot towers, our factory chimneys and signboards, would have become glorious
objects, become useful objects. Their art did not confine itself to one day in seven; it permeated
the commonest details of every-day life, because they were common. Hence they ennobled everything.

But the Romans, unfortunately, never had any shot towers, or hotels, or railroad depots, and
so we think such things exceptions to the ordinary rules of architecture. But after all, perhaps,
this is all the better for their future, as it leaves them comparatively untrammelled. In the
matter of railroad depots, England has certainly stolen a march upon us, the large city stations
in that rail-bound country being perfect Crystal Palaces in size and elegance, while those
for the more rural places are often the most exquisite little villas, unapproachable in neatness
and taste. In some parts of the Continent, the Swiss style has been pressed into this service
with notable success.

In regard to fire-alarm towers, we rejoice to be able to make an exceptional remark. New York
city has actually produced two or three of these of new and elegant shape, perfectly adapted
to their purpose; and yet, so far as we know, not copied from anything else. Those in Sixth
and Third avenues have a grace of outline that is really elegant, and show what we can accomplish
if we only build what we want in a natural and appropriate way.

Nothing, however, is to exert a vaster influence on our style than the hotel. This 'institution,'
as we have it, is comparatively unknown in Europe; beyond all nations are we a travelling and
hotel-building people. Our hotels have not grown up with the scant traffic of the post chaise
or diligence; they overleaped that feeble infancy, and started at once with the railroad and
steamboat. Large, luxurious, and well appointed, they are usually the prominent buildings in
all our large cities.

But as yet it is only their size and social importance that distinguishes them, not their architecture.
The recipe for a first-class city house is simple: a vast square front of white, with ninety-six
or a hundred and forty-four windows, as the case may be, all alike, and all equidistant. The
variety afforded by this arrangement is much the same as that of an uncut sheet of postage
stamps. In such large masses, a single color--white especially--is always disagreeable, unless
treated with some variety of form. Brick, with stone dressings, will almost invariably produce
a finer front than stone alone. But, after all, the most desirable kind of variety is that
which seeks to express exteriorly the inner arrangement of the building, by giving some degree
of prominence to the principal rooms. As to interior, our hotels neglect a grand opportunity
in making no capital of the central space they generally enclose. This, instead of being abandoned
to cats and ash barrels, might be made the feature of the establishment. Fancy such a court
roofed over with glass,[23] and surrounded with light arcades of ironwork forming a continuous
balcony at each story, arrange a garden in the centre with a fountain, and give the whole a
sort of oriental treatment, and what a really elegant effect could be produced! The main entrance
in this case would be, not on the street, but on one of the sides of this inner court, while
an arched carriage way, to connect with the street, would render vehicles accessible under
cover. The arcades, connecting all parts of the house, would take the place of halls and corridors,
besides forming delightful promenades. Some few hotels could be named, in our large cities,
which seem to have the germ of this idea, but we know no instance of its complete development.

Still we have great hopes of the hotel, because it is the place of all others which it is to
our interest to make look well. People go to the post office all the same, be it a barn or
a parthenon, but they will go, other things being equal, to the best hotel. Here comes in the
American principle of Competition, the keynote of all our enterprise. Competition is to do
for us what the hope of earthly immortality did for the builders of the Pyramids, what the
desire to glorify God did for the builders of the cathedrals. It is to be the soul of our art:
what sort of a body it is to put on, we shall presently see. Even now it is safe to assume
that no more such granite prisons as the 'Revere' or the 'Astor' will be built for hotels.
Lightness, variety, and vivacity will more probably characterize this style.

The shop front is something that we must have in some shape or other, and, if fairly treated,
it would become as decidedly American as business is. It is susceptible of great variety, but
care must be taken that it harmonizes with the superstructure. How often we see massive structures
of marble, five stories or more, supported on basements of plate glass, apparently; while the
real supports are carefully concealed! The best method, so far tried, seems to be that in which
the columns are made sufficiently prominent to show their object, and are surmounted by arches,
which give a good basis for what comes next above, while affording sufficient window space
to the store front.

But we must make up our mind to part with those hideous signboards, which trail their loathsome
length across our best buildings, regardless of console or capital or cornice. For the importance
of the sign renders it constructive, and it has as much right to take part in the design as
a door or a window. Instead of being pinned on like an afterthought, it should be built into
the wall, panel fashion, and by a little taste in the selection of the style of letter, it
might become one of the most striking features of the whole front. Color would be better for
the letters than relief, being more economical and more easily altered.

Our warehouses and even our factories might become imposing objects if appropriately conceived,
for is not labor ennobling? Anything that is worth doing, is worth doing well; and if any of
our manufacturing towns are hideous, they are not necessarily so.[24] There is a certain grandeur
about many such places, with their myriad chimneys and ponderous wheels and whirling engines,
that deserves a corresponding grandeur of expression, and some of our Pennsylvania ironworks
already afford splendid examples of this. We have seldom been more impressed by the grandeur
of mechanical operations than on a recent night visit to one of the large rolling mills of
Scranton. The whole interior, vast as a cathedral, was brilliantly lighted by the numerous
operations in molten and red-hot iron that were everywhere in progress, and, with its gleaming
furnaces, ranged on either hand down the long vista, and glowing here and there from the galleries,
really made us feel prouder of our race than did many a dim, dilapidated temple of the Old World.

