The Polity of the Lacedaemonians talks about the
     laws and institutions created by Lycurgus, which
     train and develop Spartan citizens from birth to
     old age.

THE POLITY OF THE ATHENIANS

I

Now, as concerning the Polity of the Athenians, (1) and the type or manner of constitution
which they have chosen, (2) I praise it not, in so far as the very choice involves the welfare
of the baser folk as opposed to that of the better class. I repeat, I withhold my praise so
far; but, given the fact that this is the type agreed upon, I propose to show that they set
about its preservation in the right way; and that those other transactions in connection with
it, which are looked upon as blunders by the rest of the Hellenic world, are the reverse.

 (1) See Grote, "H. G." vi. p. 47 foll.; Thuc. i. 76, 77; viii. 48;
    Boeckh, "P. E. A." passim; Hartman, "An. Xen. N." cap. viii.;
    Roquette, "Xen. Vit." S. 26; Newman, "Pol. Arist." i. 538; and
    "Xenophontis qui fertur libellus de Republica Atheniensium," ed.
    A. Kirchhoff (MDCCCLXXIV), whose text I have chiefly followed.

 (2) Lit. "I do not praise their choice of the (particular) type, in so
    far as..."

In the first place, I maintain, it is only just that the poorer classes (3) and the People
of Athens should be better off than the men of birth and wealth, seeing that it is the people
who man the fleet, (4) and put round the city her girdle of power. The steersman, (5) the boatswain,
the lieutenant, (6) the look-out-man at the prow, the shipright--these are the people who engird
the city with power far rather than her heavy infantry (7) and men of birth of quality. This
being the case, it seems only just that offices of state should be thrown open to every one
both in the ballot (8) and the show of hands, and that the right of speech should belong to
any one who likes, without restriction. For, observe, (9) there are many of these offices which,
according as they are in good or in bad hands, are a source of safety or of danger to the People,
and in these the People prudently abstains from sharing; as, for instance, it does not think
it incumbent on itself to share in the functions of the general or of the commander of cavalry.
(10) The sovereign People recognises the fact that in forgoing the personal exercise of these
offices, and leaving them to the control of the more powerful (11) citizens, it secures the
balance of advantage to itself. It is only those departments of government which bring emolument
(12) and assist the private estate that the People cares to keep in its own hands.

 (3) Cf. "Mem." I. ii. 58 foll.

 (4) Lit. "ply the oar and propel the galleys."

 (5) See "Econ." viii. 14; Pollux, i. 96; Arist. "Knights," 543 foll.;
    Plat. "Laws," v. 707 A; Jowett, "Plat." v. 278 foll.; Boeckh, "P.
    E. A." bk. ii. ch. xxi.

 (6) Lit. "pentecontarch;" see Dem. "In Pol." 1212.

 (7) Aristot. "Pol." vi. 7; Jowett, "The Politics of Aristotle," vol.
    i. p. 109.

 (8) {klerotoi}, {airetoi}.

 (9) Reading with Kirchhoff, {epeo tou}, or if {epeita}, "in the next
    place."

 (10) Hipparch.

 (11) Cf. "Hipparch." i. 9; "Econ." ii. 8.

 (12) E.g. the {dikasteria}.

In the next place, in regard to what some people are puzzled to explain--the fact that everywhere
greater consideration is shown to the base, to poor people and to common folk, than to persons
of good quality--so far from being a matter of surprise, this, as can be shown, is the keystone
of the preservation of the democracy. It is these poor people, this common folk, this riff-raff,
(13) whose prosperity, combined with the growth of their numbers, enhances the democracy. Whereas,
a shifting of fortune to the advantage of the wealthy and the better classes implies the establishment
on the part of the commonalty of a strong power in opposition to itself. In fact, all the world
over, the cream of society is in opposition to the democracy. Naturally, since the smallest
amount of intemperance and injustice, together with the highest scrupulousness in the pursuit
of excellence, is to be found in the ranks of the better class, while within the ranks of the
People will be found the greatest amount of ignorance, disorderliness, rascality--poverty acting
as a stronger incentive to base conduct, not to speak of lack of education and ignorance, traceable
to the lack of means which afflicts the average of mankind. (14)

 (13) Or, "these inferiors," "these good-for-nothings."

 (14) Or, "some of these folk." The passage is corrupt.

The objection may be raised that it was a mistake to allow the universal right of speech (15)
and a seat in council. These should have been reserved for the cleverest, the flower of the
community. But here, again, it will be found that they are acting with wise deliberation in
granting to (16) even the baser sort the right of speech, for supposing only the better people
might speak, or sit in council, blessings would fall to the lot of those like themselves, but
to the commonalty the reverse of blessings. Whereas now, any one who likes, any base fellow,
may get up and discover something to the advantage of himself and his equals. It may be retorted:
"And what sort of advantage either for himself or for the People can such a fellow be expected
to hit upon?" The answer to which is, that in their judgment the ignorance and baseness of
this fellow, together with his goodwill, are worth a great deal more to them than your superior
person's virtue and wisdom, coupled with animosity. What it comes to, therefore, is that a
state founded upon such institutions will not be the best state; (17) but, given a democracy,
these are the right means to procure its preservation. The People, it must be borne in mind,
does not demand that the city should be well governed and itself a slave. It desires to be
free and to be master. (18) As to bad legislation it does not concern itself about that. (19)
In fact, what you believe to be bad legislation is the very source of the People's strength
and freedom. But if you seek for good legislation, in the first place you will see the cleverest
members of the community laying down the laws for the rest. And in the next place, the better
class will curb and chastise the lower orders; the better class will deliberate in behalf of
the state, and not suffer crack-brained fellows to sit in council, or to speak or vote in Parliament.
(20) No doubt; but under the weight of such blessings the People will in a very short time
be reduced to slavery.

 (15) Lit. "everybody to speak in turn."

 (16) Or, "it is a counsel of perfection on their part to grant to,"
    etc.

 (17) Or, "the ideal state."

 (18) Or, "and to govern and hold office."

 (19) Or, "it will take the risk of that."

 (20) See Grote, "H. G." v. p. 510 note.

Another point is the extraordinary amount of license (21) granted to slaves and resident aliens
at Athens, where a blow is illegal, and a slave will not step aside to let you pass him in
the street. I will explain the reason of this peculiar custom. Or if the fact itself that slaves
in Athens are allowed to indulge in luxury, and indeed in some cases to live magnificently,
be found astonishing, this too, it can be shown, is done of set purpose. Where you have a naval
power (22) dependent upon wealth (23) we must perforce be slaves to our slaves, in order that
we may get in our slave-rents, (24) and let the real slave go free. Where you have wealthy
slaves it ceases to be advantageous that my slave should stand in awe of you. In Lacedaemon
my slave stands in awe of you. (25) But if your slave is in awe of me there will be a risk
of his giving away his own moneys to avoid running a risk in his own person. It is for this
reason then that we have established an equality between our slaves and free men; and again
between our resident aliens and full citizens, (26) because the city stands in need of her
resident aliens to meet the requirements of such a multiplicity of arts and for the purposes
of her navy. That is, I repeat, the justification for the equality conferred upon our resident
aliens.

 (21) See Aristot. "Pol." v. 11 and vi. 4; Jowett, op. cit. vol. i. pp.
    179, 196; Welldon, "The Politics of Aristotle," pp. 394 323; Dem.
    "Phil." III. iii. 10; Plaut. "Stich." III. i. 37.

 (22) See Diod. xi. 43.

 (23) Reading, {apo khrematon, anagke}, or (reading, {apo khrematon
    anagke}) "considerations of money force us to be slaves."

 (24) See Boeckh, "P. E. A." I. xiii. (Eng. trans. p. 72). "The rights
    of property with regard to slaves in no way differed from any
    other chattel; they could be given or taken as pledges. They
    laboured either on their master's account or their own, in
    consideration of a certain sum to be paid to the master, or they
    were let out on hire either for the mines or any other kind of
    labour, and even for other persons' workshops, or as hired
    servants for wages ({apophora}): a similar payment was also
    exacted by the masters for their slaves serving in the fleet." Ib.
    "Dissertation on the Silver Mines of Laurion," p. 659 (Eng.
    trans.)

 (25) See "Pol. Lac." vi. 3.

 (26) Or, "we have given to our slaves the right to talk like equals
    with free men, just as to resident aliens the right of so talking
    with citizens." See Jebb, "Theophr. Char." xiv. 4, note, p. 221.
    See Demosth. "against Midias," 529, where the law is cited. "If
    any one commit a personal outrage upon man, woman, or child,
    whether free-born or slave, or commit any illegal act against any
    such person, let any Athenian that chooses" (not being under
    disability) "indict him before the judges," etc; and the orator
    exclaims: "You know, O Athenians, the humanity of the law, which
    allows not even slaves to be insulted in their persons."--C. R.
    Kennedy.

Citizens devoting their time to gymnastics and to the cultivation of music are not to be found
in Athens; (27) the sovereign People has disestablished them, (28) not from any disbelief in
the beauty and honour of such training, but recognising the fact that these are things the
cultivation of which is beyond its power. On the same principle, in the case of the coregia,
(29) the gymnasiarchy, and the trierarchy, the fact is recognised that it is the rich man who
trains the chorus, and the People for whom the chorus is trained; it is the rich man who is
trierarch or gymnasiarch, and the People that profits by their labours. (30) In fact, what
the People looks upon as its right is to pocket the money. (31) To sing and run and dance and
man the vessels is well enough, but only in order that the People may be the gainer, while
the rich are made poorer. And so in the courts of justice, (32) justice is not more an object
of concern to the jurymen than what touches personal advantage.

 (27) For {mousike} and {gumnastike}, see Becker's "Charicles," Exc.
    "Education."

 (28) See "Revenues," iv. 52; Arist. "Frogs," 1069, {e xekenosen tas te
    palaistras}, "and the places of exercise vacant and bare."--Frere.

 (29) "The duties of the choregia consisted in finding maintenance and
    instruction for the chorus" (in tragedy, usually of fifteen
    persons) "as long as they were in training; and in providing the
    dresses and equipments for the performance."--Jebb, "Theophr.
    Char." xxv. 3. For those of the gymnasiarchy, see "Dict. of
    Antiq." "Gymnasium." For that of the trierarchy, see Jebb, op.
    cit. xxv. 9; xxix. 16; Boeckh, "P. E. A." IV. xi.

 (30) See "Econ." ii. 6; Thuc. vi. 31.

 (31) See Boeckh, "P. E. A." II. xvi. p. 241.

 (32) For the system of judicature, the {dikasteria}, and the boards of
    jurymen or judges, see Aristot. "Constitution of Athens," ch.
    lxiii.; "Dict. of Antiq." s.v.

To speak next of the allies, and in reference to the point that emissaries (33) from Athens
come out, and, according to common opinion, calumniate and vent their hatred (34) upon the
better sort of people, this is done (35) on the principle that the ruler cannot help being
hated by those whom he rules; but that if wealth and respectability are to wield power in the
subject cities the empire of the Athenian People has but a short lease of existence. This explains
why the better people are punished with infamy, (36) robbed of their money, driven from their
homes, and put to death, while the baser sort are promoted to honour. On the other hand, the
better Athenians throw their aegis over the better class in the allied cities. (37) And why?
Because they recognise that it is to the interest of their own class at all times to protect
the best element in the cities. It may be urged (38) that if it comes to strength and power
the real strength of Athens lies in the capacity of her allies to contribute their money quota.
But to the democratic mind (39) it appears a higher advantage still for the individual Athenian
to get hold of the wealth of the allies, leaving them only enough to live upon and to cultivate
their estates, but powerless to harbour treacherous designs.

 (33) For {oi ekpleontes}, see Grote, "H. G." vi. p. 41.

 (34) Reading {misousi}; or, if with Kirchhoff, {meiousi}, "in every
    way humiliate."

 (35) Or, "(they do so) as recognising the fact."

 (36) {atimia} = the loss of civil rights, either total or partial. See
    C. R. Kennedy, "Select Speeches of Demosthenes," Note 13,
    Disenfranchisement.

 (37) See Thuc. viii. 48.

 (38) See Grote, "H. G." vi. 53.

 (39) Or, "to a thorough democrat."

