IV.

LIFE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D. (1780-DEC. 13, 1784)

APPENDICES:

A. ALTERCATION BETWEEN DR. JOHNSON AND DEAN BARNARD. B. JOHNSON AND PRIESTLEY. C. THE CLUB
IN IVY-LANE. D. THE ESSEX HEAD CLUB. E. MISS BURNEY'S ACCOUNT OF JOHNSON'S LAST DAYS. F. NOTES
ON JOHNSON'S WILL, ETC. G. NOTES ON BOSWELL'S NOTE. H. NOTES ON BOSWELL'S NOTE. I. PARR'S EPITAPH
ON JOHNSON.

FOOTNOTES.

'Theocritus is not deserving of very high respect as a writer; as to the pastoral part, Virgil
is very evidently superiour. He wrote when there had been a larger influx of knowledge into
the world than when Theocritus lived. Theocritus does not abound in description, though living
in a beautiful country: the manners painted are coarse and gross. Virgil has much more description,
more sentiment, more of Nature, and more of art. Some of the most excellent parts of Theocritus
are, where Castor and Pollux, going with the other Argonauts, land on the Bebrycian coast,
and there fall into a dispute with Amycus, the King of that country; which is as well conducted
as Euripides could have done it; and the battle is well related. Afterwards they carry off
a woman, whose two brothers come to recover her, and expostulate with Castor and Pollux on
their injustice; but they pay no regard to the brothers, and a battle ensues, where Castor
and his brother are triumphant. Theocritus seems not to have seen that the brothers have the
advantage in their argument over his Argonaut heroes. The Sicilian Gossips is a piece of merit.'

'Callimachus is a writer of little excellence. The chief thing to be learned from him is his
account of Rites and Mythology; which, though desirable to be known for the sake of understanding
other parts of ancient authours, is the least pleasing or valuable part of their writings.'

'Mattaire's account of the Stephani[3] is a heavy book. He seems to have been a puzzle-headed
man, with a large share of scholarship, but with little geometry or logick in his head, without
method, and possessed of little genius. His book of the Dialects[5] is a sad heap of confusion;
the only way to write on them is to tabulate them with Notes, added at the bottom of the page,
and references.'

'It may be questioned, whether there is not some mistake as to the methods of employing the
poor, seemingly on a supposition that there is a certain portion of work left undone for want
of persons to do it; but if that is otherwise, and all the materials we have are actually worked
up, or all the manufactures we can use or dispose of are already executed, then what is given
to the poor, who are to be set at work, must be taken from some who now have it; as time must
be taken for learning, according to Sir William Petty's observation, a certain part of those
very materials that, as it is, are properly worked up, must be spoiled by the unskilfulness
of novices. But let us try to help one another. If there be a wrong twist it may be set right.
Johnson, in an irritable fit, thinking there was too much ostentation, said, "I never receive
any of these tributes of applause from abroad. He said, "the manner of this dismission is exceedingly
affecting."'

'He thus defined the difference between physical and moral truth; "Physical truth, is, when
you tell a thing as it actually is. Moral truth, is, when you tell a thing sincerely and precisely
as it appears to you. I say such a one walked across the street; if he really did so, I told
a physical truth. If I thought so, though I should have been mistaken, I told a moral truth."'

'Huggins, the translator of Ariosto, and Mr. Thomas Warton, in the early part of his literary
life, had a dispute concerning that poet, of whom Mr. Warton in his Observations on Spenser's
Fairy Queen, gave some account, which Huggins attempted to answer with violence, and said,
"I will militate no longer against his nescience." Huggins was master of the subject, but wanted
expression. Mr. Warton's knowledge of it was then imperfect, but his manner lively and elegant[18].
JOHNSON. JOHNSON. JOHNSON. "And did not you tell him he was a rascal[35]?" Having read Domina
de North et Gray, he said to Dyer, "You see, Sir, what barbarisms we are compelled to make
use of, when modern titles are to be specifically mentioned in Latin inscriptions." When he
had read it once aloud, and there had been a general approbation expressed by the company,
he addressed himself to Mr. Dyer in particular, and said, "Sir, I beg to have your judgement,
for I know your nicety[37]." Dyer then very properly desired to read it over again; which having
done, he pointed out an incongruity in one of the sentences. As a proof of the justness of
this remark, we may instance what is related of the great Lord Granville[43]; that after he
had written his letter, giving an account of the battle of Dettingen, he said, "Here is a letter,
expressed in terms not good enough for a tallow-chandler to have used.'" Of Queen Elizabeth
he said, "She had learning enough to have given dignity to a bishop;" and of Mr. Thomas Davies
he said, "Sir, Davies has learning enough to give credit to a clergyman[47]."'

'He used to quote, with great warmth, the saying of Aristotle recorded by Diogenes Laertius[48];
that there was the same difference between one learned and unlearned, as between the living
and the dead.'

'It is very remarkable, that he retained in his memory very slight and trivial, as well as
important things[49]. Parr is a fair man. I do not know when I have had an occasion of such
free controversy. It is remarkable how much of a man's life may pass without meeting with any
instance of this kind of open discussion[55]."'

'We may fairly institute a criticism between Shakspeare and Corneille[56], as they both had,
though in a different degree, the lights of a latter age. It is not so just between the Greek
dramatick writers and Shakspeare. It may be replied to what is said by one of the remarkers
on Shakspeare, that though Darius's shade[57] had prescience, it does not necessarily follow
that he had all past particulars revealed to him.'

'Spanish plays, being wildly and improbably farcical, would please children here, as children
are entertained with stories full of prodigies; their experience not being sufficient to cause
them to be so readily startled at deviations from the natural course of life[58]. The machinery
of the Pagans is uninteresting to us[59]: when a Goddess appears in Homer or Virgil, we grow
weary; still more so in the Grecian tragedies, as in that kind of composition a nearer approach
to Nature is intended. Yet there are good reasons for reading romances; as--the fertility of
invention, the beauty of style and expression, the curiosity of seeing with what kind of performances
the age and country in which they were written was delighted: for it is to be apprehended,
that at the time when very wild improbable tales were well received, the people were in a barbarous
state, and so on the footing of children, as has been explained.'

'It is evident enough that no one who writes now can use the Pagan deities and mythology; the
only machinery, therefore, seems that of ministering spirits, the ghosts of the departed, witches[60],
and fairies, though these latter, as the vulgar superstition concerning them (which, while
in its force, infected at least the imagination of those that had more advantage in education,
though their reason set them free from it,) is every day wearing out, seem likely to be of
little further assistance in the machinery of poetry. As I recollect, Hammond introduces a
hag or witch into one of his love elegies, where the effect is unmeaning and disgusting[61].'

'The man who uses his talent of ridicule in creating or grossly exaggerating the instances
he gives, who imputes absurdities that did not happen, or when a man was a little ridiculous
describes him as having been very much so, abuses his talents greatly. The great use of delineating
absurdities is, that we may know how far human folly can go; the account, therefore, ought
of absolute necessity to be faithful. A certain character (naming the person) as to the general
cast of it, is well described by Garrick, but a great deal of the phraseology he uses in it,
is quite his own, particularly in the proverbial comparisons, "obstinate as a pig," &c., but
I don't know whether it might not be true of Lord ------[62], that from a too great eagerness
of praise and popularity, and a politeness carried to a ridiculous excess, he was likely, after
asserting a thing in general, to give it up again in parts. For instance, if he had said Reynolds
was the first of painters, he was capable enough of giving up, as objections might happen to
be severally made, first his outline,--then the grace in form,--then the colouring,--and lastly,
to have owned that he was such a mannerist, that the disposition of his pictures was all alike.'

'For hospitality, as formerly practised, there is no longer the same reason; heretofore the
poorer people were more numerous, and from want of commerce, their means of getting a livelihood
more difficult; therefore the supporting them was an act of great benevolence; now that the
poor can find maintenance for themselves, and their labour is wanted, a general undiscerning
hospitality tends to ill, by withdrawing them from their work to idleness and drunkenness.
Then, formerly rents were received in kind, so that there was a great abundance of provisions
in possession of the owners of the lands, which, since the plenty of money afforded by commerce,
is no longer the case.'

'Hospitality to strangers and foreigners in our country is now almost at an end, since, from
the increase of them that come to us, there have been a sufficient number of people that have
found an interest in providing inns and proper accommodations, which is in general a more expedient
method for the entertainment of travellers. Where the travellers and strangers are few, more
of that hospitality subsists, as it has not been worth while to provide places of accommodation.
Mr. Langton happening to mention his having read a good deal in Clenardus's Greek Grammar,
"Why, Sir, (said he,) who is there in this town who knows any thing of Clenardus but you and
I?" Yet he afterwards said, "When I heard you read it, I thought higher of its power of language:
when I read it myself, I was more sensible of its pathetick effect;" and then he paid it a
compliment which many will think very extravagant. "Sir, (said he,) if Otway had written this
play, no other of his pieces would have been remembered." Johnson said, that he had advised
his Lordship, that as it was in vain to contend with those who were in possession of power,
if they would offer him the rank of Lieutenant-General, and a government, it would be better
judged to desist from urging his complaints. "The Archbishop of Canterbury, said he (with an
affected smooth smiling grimace) drinks,' Constitution in Church and State.'" Being asked what
difference there was between the two toasts, he said, "Why, Sir, you may be sure he meant something."
Yet when the life of that prelate, prefixed to his sermons by Dr. Porteus and Dr. Stinton his
chaplains, first came out, he read it with the utmost avidity, and said, "It is a life well
written, and that well deserves to be recorded."'

'Of a certain noble Lord, he said, "Respect him, you could not; for he had no mind of his own.
Love him you could not; for that which you could do with him, every one else could[102]."'

'Of Dr. Goldsmith he said, "No man was more foolish when he had not a pen in his hand, or more
wise when he had[103]."'

'He told in his lively manner the following literary anecdote: "Green and Guthrie[104], an
Irishman and a Scotchman, undertook a translation of Duhalde's History of China. Green said
of Guthrie, that he knew no English, and Guthrie of Green, that he knew no French; and these
two undertook to translate Duhalde's History of China. In this translation there was found
'the twenty-sixth day of the new moon.' Now as the whole age of the moon is but twenty-eight
days, the moon instead of being new, was nearly as old as it could be. Their blunder arose
from their mistaking the word neuvième ninth, for nouvelle or neuve, new."'

'Talking of Dr. Blagden's copiousness and precision of communication, Dr. Johnson said, "Blagden,
Sir, is a delightful fellow[105]."'

'On occasion of Dr. Johnson's publishing his pamphlet of The False Alarm[106], there came out
a very angry answer (by many supposed to be by Mr. Wilkes). Dr. Johnson determined on not answering
it; but, in conversation with Mr. Langton, mentioned a particular or two, which if he had replied
to it, he might perhaps have inserted. In the answerer's pamphlet, it had been said with solemnity,
"Do you consider, Sir, that a House of Commons is to the people as a Creature is to its Creator[107]?"
To this question, said Dr. Johnson, I could have replied, that--in the first place--the idea
of a CREATOR must be such as that he has a power to unmake or annihilate his creature.'

'Then it cannot be conceived that a creature can make laws for its CREATOR[108].'

'Depend upon it, said he, that if a man talks of his misfortunes, there is something in them
that is not disagreeable to him; for where there is nothing but pure misery, there never is
any recourse to the mention of it[109].'

'A man must be a poor beast that should read no more in quantity than he could utter aloud.'

'Imlac in Rasselas, I spelt with a c at the end, because it is less like English, which should
always have the Saxon k added to the c[110].'

'Many a man is mad in certain instances, and goes through life without having it perceived[111]:
for example, a madness has seized a person of supposing himself obliged literally to pray continually[112]--had
the madness turned the opposite way and the person thought it a crime ever to pray, it might
not improbably have continued unobserved.'

'He apprehended that the delineation of characters in the end of the first Book of the Retreat
of the Ten Thousand was the first instance of the kind that was known.'

'Supposing (said he) a wife to be of a studious or argumentative turn, it would be very troublesome[113]:
for instance,--if a woman should continually dwell upon the subject of the Arian heresy.'

'No man speaks concerning another, even suppose it be in his praise, if he thinks he does not
hear him, exactly as he would, if he thought he was within hearing.'

'The applause of a single human being is of great consequence[114]: This he said to me with
great earnestness of manner, very near the time of his decease, on occasion of having desired
me to read a letter addressed to him from some person in the North of England; which when I
had done, and he asked me what the contents were, as I thought being particular upon it might
fatigue him, it being of great length, I only told him in general that it was highly in his
praise;--and then he expressed himself as above.'

'He mentioned with an air of satisfaction what Baretti had told him; that, meeting, in the
course of his studying English, with an excellent paper in the Spectator, one of four[115]
that were written by the respectable Dissenting Minister, Mr. Grove of Taunton, and observing
the genius and energy of mind that it exhibits, it greatly quickened his curiosity to visit
our country; as he thought if such were the lighter periodical essays of our authours, their
productions on more weighty occasions must be wonderful indeed!'

'He observed once, at Sir Joshua Reynolds's, that a beggar in the street will more readily
ask alms from a man, though there should be no marks of wealth in his appearance, than from
even a well-dressed woman[116]; which he accounted for from the greater degree of carefulness
as to money that is to be found in women; saying farther upon it, that the opportunities in
general that they possess of improving their condition are much fewer than men have; and adding,
as he looked round the company, which consisted of men only,--there is not one of us who does
not think he might be richer if he would use his endeavour.'

'He thus characterised an ingenious writer of his acquaintance: "Sir, he is an enthusiast by
rule[117]."'

'He may hold up that SHIELD against all his enemies;'--was an observation on Homer, in reference
to his description of the shield of Achilles, made by Mrs. Fitzherbert, wife to his friend
Mr. Fitzherbert of Derbyshire, and respected by Dr. Johnson as a very fine one[118]. Philology
and biography[124] were his favourite pursuits, and those who lived most in intimacy with him,
heard him upon all occasions, when there was a proper opportunity, take delight in expatiating
upon the various merits of the English Poets: upon the niceties of their characters, and the
events of their progress through the world which they contributed to illuminate. His mind was
so full of that kind of information, and it was so well arranged in his memory, that in performing
what he had undertaken in this way, he had little more to do than to put his thoughts upon
paper, exhibiting first each Poet's life, and then subjoining a critical examination of his
genius and works. But when he began to write, the subject swelled in such a manner, that instead
of prefaces to each poet, of no more than a few pages, as he had originally intended[125],
he produced an ample, rich, and most entertaining view of them in every respect. In this he
resembled Quintilian, who tells us, that in the composition of his Institutions of Oratory[126],
Latiùs se tamen aperiente materiâ, plus quàm imponebatur oneris sponte suscepi.

This was, however, but a small recompense for such a collection of biography, and such principles
and illustrations of criticism, as, if digested and arranged in one system, by some modern
Aristotle or Longinus, might form a code upon that subject, such as no other nation can shew.
He may be assimilated to the Lady in Waller, who could impress with 'Love at first sight:'

     'Some other nymphs with colours faint,
      And pencil slow may Cupid paint,
      And a weak heart in time destroy;
      She has a stamp, and prints the boy[129].'

That he, however, had a good deal of trouble, and some anxiety in carrying on the work[130],
we see from a series of letters to Mr. Nichols the printer[131], whose variety of literary
inquiry and obliging disposition, rendered him useful to Johnson. Mr. Steevens appears, from
the papers in my possession, to have supplied him with some anecdotes and quotations; and I
observe the fair hand of Mrs. Thrale as one of his copyists of select passages. But he was
principally indebted to my steady friend Mr. Isaac Reed, of Staple-inn, whose extensive and
accurate knowledge of English literary history I do not express with exaggeration, when I say
it is wonderful; indeed his labours[132] have proved it to the world; and all who have the
pleasure of his acquaintance can bear testimony to the frankness of his communications in private
society.

It is not my intention to dwell upon each of Johnson's Lives of the Poets, or attempt an analysis
of their merits, which, were I able to do it, would take up too much room in this work; yet
I shall make a few observations upon some of them, and insert a few various readings.

The Life of COWLEY he himself considered as the best of the whole, on account of the dissertation
which it contains on the Metaphysical Poets. Dryden, whose critical abilities were equal to
his poetical, had mentioned them in his excellent Dedication of his Juvenal, but had barely
mentioned them[133]. Johnson has exhibited them at large, with such happy illustration from
their writings, and in so luminous a manner, that indeed he may be allowed the full merit of
novelty, and to have discovered to us, as it were, a new planet in the poetical hemisphere[134].

It is remarked by Johnson, in considering the works of a poet[135], that 'amendments are seldom
made without some token of a rent;' but I do not find that this is applicable to prose[136].
We shall see that though his amendments in this work are for the better, there is nothing of
the pannus assutus[137]; the texture is uniform: and indeed, what had been there at first,
is very seldom unfit to have remained.

Various Readings[138] in the Life of COWLEY.

'All [future votaries of] that may hereafter pant for solitude.

'To conceive and execute the [agitation or perception] pains and the pleasures of other minds.

'The wide effulgence of [the blazing] a summer noon.'

In the Life of WALLER, Johnson gives a distinct and animated narrative of publick affairs in
that variegated period, with strong yet nice touches of character; and having a fair opportunity
to display his political principles, does it with an unqualified manly confidence, and satisfies
his readers how nobly he might have executed a Tory History of his country.

So easy is his style in these Lives, that I do not recollect more than three uncommon or learned
words[139]; one, when giving an account of the approach of Waller's mortal disease, he says,
'he found his legs grow tumid;' by using the expression his legs swelled, he would have avoided
this; and there would have been no impropriety in its being followed by the interesting question
to his physician, 'What that swelling meant?' Another, when he mentions that Pope had emitted
proposals; when published or issued would have been more readily understood; and a third, when
he calls Orrery and Dr. Delany[140], writers both undoubtedly veracious[141], when true, honest,
or faithful, might have been used. Yet, it must be owned, that none of these are hard or too
big words; that custom would make them seem as easy as any others; and that a language is richer
and capable of more beauty of expression, by having a greater variety of synonimes.

His dissertation[142] upon the unfitness of poetry for the aweful subjects of our holy religion,
though I do not entirely agree with with him, has all the merit of originality, with uncommon
force and reasoning.

Various Readings in the Life of WALLER.

'Consented to [the insertion of their names] their own nomination.

'[After] paying a fine of ten thousand pounds.

'Congratulating Charles the Second on his [coronation] recovered right.

'He that has flattery ready for all whom the vicissitudes of the world happen to exalt, must
be [confessed to degrade his powers] scorned as a prostituted mind.

'The characters by which Waller intended to distinguish his writings are [elegance] sprightliness
and dignity.

'Blossoms to be valued only as they [fetch] foretell fruits.

'Images such as the superficies of nature [easily] readily supplies.

'[His] Some applications [are sometimes] may be thought too remote and unconsequential.

'His images are [sometimes confused] not always distinct?

Against his Life of MILTON, the hounds of Whiggism have opened in full cry[143]. But of Milton's
great excellence as a poet, where shall we find such a blazon as by the hand of Johnson? I
shall select only the following passage concerning Paradise Lost[144]:

'Fancy can hardly forbear to conjecture with what temper Milton surveyed the silent progress
of his work, and marked his reputation stealing its way in a kind of subterraneous current,
through fear and silence. This darkness, had his eyes been better employed, had undoubtedly
deserved compassion; but to add the mention of danger, was ungrateful and unjust. He was fallen,
indeed, on evil days; the time was come in which regicides could no longer boast their wickedness.
But of evil tongues for Milton to complain, required impudence at least equal to his other
powers; Milton, whose warmest advocates must allow, that he never spared any asperity of reproach,
or brutality of insolence[150].'

I have, indeed, often wondered how Milton, 'an acrimonious and surly Republican[151],'--'a
man who in his domestick relations was so severe and arbitrary[152],' and whose head was filled
with the hardest and most dismal tenets of Calvinism[153], should have been such a poet; should
not only have written with sublimity, but with beauty, and even gaiety; should have exquisitely
painted the sweetest sensations of which our nature is capable; imaged the delicate raptures
of connubial love; nay, seemed to be animated with all the spirit of revelry. It is a proof
that in the human mind the departments of judgement and imagination, perception and temper,
may sometimes be divided by strong partitions; and that the light and shade in the same character
may be kept so distinct as never to be blended[154].

In the Life of Milton, Johnson took occasion to maintain his own and the general opinion of
the excellence of rhyme over blank verse, in English poetry[155]; and quotes this apposite
illustration of it by 'an ingenious critick,' that it seems to be verse only to the eye[156].
The gentleman whom he thus characterises, is (as he told Mr. Seward) Mr. Lock[157], of Norbury
Park, in Surrey, whose knowledge and taste in the fine arts is universally celebrated; with
whose elegance of manners the writer of the present work has felt himself much impressed, and
to whose virtues a common friend, who has known him long, and is not much addicted to flattery,
gives the highest testimony.

Various Readings in the Life of MILTON.

'I cannot find any meaning but this which [his most bigotted advocates] even kindness and reverence
can give.

'[Perhaps no] scarcely any man ever wrote so much, and praised so few.

'A certain [rescue] perservative from oblivion.

'Let me not be censured for this digression, as [contracted] pedantick or paradoxical.

'Socrates rather was of opinion, that what we had to learn was how to [obtain and communicate
happiness] do good and avoid evil.

'Its elegance [who can exhibit?] is less attainable.'

I could, with pleasure, expatiate upon the masterly execution of the Life of DRYDEN, which
we have seen[158] was one of Johnson's literary projects at an early period, and which it is
remarkable, that after desisting from it, from a supposed scantiness of materials, he should,
at an advanced age, have exhibited so amply.

His defence[159] of that great poet against the illiberal attacks upon him, as if his embracing
the Roman Catholick communion had been a time-serving measure, is a piece of reasoning at once
able and candid. Indeed, Dryden himself, in his Hind and Panther, has given such a picture
of his mind, that they who know the anxiety for repose as to the aweful subject of our state
beyond the grave, though they may think his opinion ill-founded, must think charitably of his
sentiment:--

     'But, gracious GOD, how well dost thou provide
      For erring judgements an unerring guide!
      Thy throne is darkness in the abyss of light,
      A blaze of glory that forbids the sight.
      O! teach me to believe thee thus conceal'd,
      And search no farther than thyself reveal'd;
      But Her alone for my director take,
      Whom thou hast promis'd never to forsake.
      My thoughtless youth was wing'd with vain desires;
      My manhood long misled by wand'ring fires,
      Follow'd false lights; and when their glimpse was gone,
      My pride struck out new sparkles of her own.
      Such was I, such by Nature still I am;
      Be thine the glory, and be mine the shame.
      Good life be now my task: my doubts are done;
      What more could shock[160] my faith than Three in One?'

In drawing Dryden's character, Johnson has given, though I suppose unintentionally, some touches
of his own. Thus:--'The power that predominated in his intellectual operations was rather strong
reason than quick sensibility. Upon all occasions that were presented, he studied rather than
felt; and produced sentiments not such as Nature enforces, but meditation supplies. With the
simple and elemental passions as they spring separate in the mind, he seems not much acquainted.
He is, therefore, with all his variety of excellence, not often pathetick; and had so little
sensibility of the power of effusions purely natural, that he did not esteem them in others[161].'
It may indeed be observed, that in all the numerous writings of Johnson, whether in prose or
verse, and even in his Tragedy, of which the subject is the distress of an unfortunate Princess,
there is not a single passage that ever drew a tear[162].

Various Readings in the Life of DRYDEN.

'The reason of this general perusal, Addison has attempted to [find in] derive from the delight
which the mind feels in the investigation of secrets.

'His best actions are but [convenient] inability of wickedness.

'When once he had engaged himself in disputation, [matter] thoughts flowed in on either side.

'The abyss of an un-ideal [emptiness] vacancy.

'These, like [many other harlots,] the harlots of other men, had his love though not his approbation.

'He [sometimes displays] descends to display his knowledge with pedantick ostentation. Let
us look round upon the present time, and back upon the past; let us enquire to whom the voice
of mankind has decreed the wreath of poetry; let their productions be examined, and their claims
stated, and the pretensions of Pope will be no more disputed.'

I remember once to have heard Johnson say, 'Sir, a thousand years may elapse before there shall
appear another man with a power of versification equal to that of Pope.' That power must undoubtedly
be allowed its due share in enhancing the value of his captivating composition.

Johnson, who had done liberal justice to Warburton in his edition of Shakspeare[165], which
was published during the life of that powerful writer, with still greater liberality[166] took
an opportunity, in the Life of Pope, of paying the tribute due to him when he was no longer
in 'high place,' but numbered with the dead[167].

It seems strange, that two such men as Johnson and Warburton, who lived in the same age and
country, should not only not have been in any degree of intimacy, but been almost personally
unacquainted. But such instances, though we must wonder at them, are not rare. If I am rightly
informed, after a careful enquiry, they never met but once, which was at the house of Mrs.
French, in London, well known for her elegant assemblies, and bringing eminent characters together.
The interview proved to be mutually agreeable[168].

I am well informed, that Warburton said of Johnson, 'I admire him, but I cannot bear his style:'
and that Johnson being told of this, said, 'That is exactly my case as to him[169].' The manner
in which he expressed his admiration of the fertility of Warburton's genius and of the variety
of his materials was, 'The table is always full, Sir. He brings things from the north, and
the south, and from every quarter. In his Divine Legation, you are always entertained. He carries
you round and round, without carrying you forward to the point; but then you have no wish to
be carried forward.' He said to the Reverend Mr. Strahan, 'Warburton is perhaps the last man
who has written with a mind full of reading and reflection[170].'

It is remarkable, that in the Life of Broome[171], Johnson takes notice of Dr. Warburton using
a mode of expression which he himself used, and that not seldom, to the great offence of those
who did not know him. Having occasion to mention a note, stating the different parts which
were executed by the associated translators of The Odyssey, he says, 'Dr. Warburton told me,
in his warm language, that he thought the relation given in the note a lie. The language is
warm indeed; and, I must own, cannot be justified in consistency with a decent regard to the
established forms of speech. Johnson had accustomed himself to use the word lie[172], to express
a mistake or an errour in relation; in short, when the thing was not so as told, though the
relator did not mean to deceive. When he thought there was intentional falsehood in the relator,
his expression was, 'He lies, and he knows he lies.'

Speaking of Pope's not having been known to excel in conversation, Johnson observes, that 'traditional
memory retains no sallies of raillery, or[173] sentences of observation; nothing either pointed
or solid, wise or merry[174]; and that one apophthegm only is recorded[175].' In this respect,
Pope differed widely from Johnson, whose conversation was, perhaps, more admirable than even
his writings, however excellent. Mr. Wilkes has, however, favoured me with one repartee of
Pope, of which Johnson was not informed. Johnson, after justly censuring him for having 'nursed
in his mind a foolish dis-esteem of Kings,' tells us, 'yet a little regard shewn him by the
Prince of Wales melted his obduracy; and he had not much to say when he was asked by his Royal
Highness, how he could love a Prince, while he disliked Kings[176]?' The answer which Pope
made, was, 'The young lion is harmless, and even playful; but when his claws are full grown
he becomes cruel, dreadful, and mischievous.'

But although we have no collection of Pope's sayings, it is not therefore to be concluded,
that he was not agreeable in social intercourse; for Johnson has been heard to say, that 'the
happiest conversation is that of which nothing is distinctly remembered but a general effect
of pleasing impression.' The late Lord Somerville[177], who saw much both of great and brilliant
life, told me, that he had dined in company with Pope, and that after dinner the little man,
as he called him, drank his bottle of Burgundy, and was exceedingly gay and entertaining.

I cannot withhold from my great friend a censure of at least culpable inattention, to a nobleman,
who, it has been shewn[178], behaved to him with uncommon politeness. He says, 'Except Lord
Bathurst, none of Pope's noble friends were such as that a good man would wish to have his
intimacy with them known to posterity[179].' This will not apply to Lord Mansfield, who was
not ennobled in Pope's life-time; but Johnson should have recollected, that Lord Marchmont
was one of those noble friends. He includes his Lordship along with Lord Bolingbroke, in a
charge of neglect of the papers which Pope left by his will; when, in truth, as I myself pointed
out to him, before he wrote that poet's life, the papers were 'committed to the sole care and
judgement of Lord Bolingbroke, unless he (Lord Bolingbroke) shall not survive me;' so that
Lord Marchmont had no concern whatever with them[180]. After the first edition of the Lives,
Mr. Malone, whose love of justice is equal to his accuracy, made, in my hearing, the same remark
to Johnson; yet he omitted to correct the erroneous statement[181]. These particulars I mention,
in the belief that there was only forgetfulness in my friend; but I owe this much to the Earl
of Marchmont's reputation, who, were there no other memorials, will be immortalised by that
line of Pope, in the verses on his Grotto:

     'And the bright flame was shot through Marchmont's soul.'

Various Readings in the Life of POPE.

'[Somewhat free] sufficiently bold in his criticism.

'All the gay [niceties] varieties of diction.

'Strikes the imagination with far [more] greater force.

'It is [probably] certainly the noblest version of poetry which the world has ever seen.

'Every sheet enabled him to write the next with [less trouble] more facility.

'No man sympathizes with [vanity, depressed] the sorrows of vanity.

'It had been [criminal] less easily excused.

'When he [threatened to lay down] talked of laying down his pen.

'Society [is so named emphatically in opposition to] politically regulated, is a state contra-distinguished
from a state of nature.

'A fictitious life of an [absurd] infatuated scholar.

'A foolish [contempt, disregard,] disesteem of Kings.

'His hopes and fears, his joys and sorrows [were like those of other mortals] acted strongly
upon his mind.

'Eager to pursue knowledge and attentive to [accumulate] retain it.

'A mind [excursive] active, ambitious, and adventurous.

'In its [noblest] widest researches still longing to go forward.

'He wrote in such a manner as might expose him to few [neglects] hazards.

'The [reasonableness] justice of my determination.

'A [favourite] delicious employment of the poets.

'More terrifick and more powerful [beings] phantoms perform on the stormy ocean.

'The inventor of [those] this petty [beings] nation.

'The [mind] heart naturally loves truth.'

In the Life of ADDISON we find an unpleasing account of his having lent Steele a hundred pounds,
and 'reclaimed his loan by an execution[182].' In the new edition of the Biographia Britannica,
the authenticity of this anecdote is denied. But Mr. Malone has obliged me with the following
note concerning it:--

'Many persons having doubts concerning this fact, I applied to Dr. Johnson to learn on what
authority he asserted it. He told me, he had it from Savage, who lived in intimacy with Steele,
and who mentioned, that Steele told him the story with tears in his eyes.--Ben Victor[183],
Dr. Johnson said, likewise informed him of this remarkable transaction, from the relation of
Mr. Wilkes[184] the comedian, who was also an intimate of Steele's.--Some in defence of Addison,
have said, that "the act was done with the good natured view of rousing Steele, and correcting
that profusion which always made him necessitous."--"If that were the case, (said Johnson,)
and that he only wanted to alarm Steele, he would afterwards have returned the money to his
friend, which it is not pretended he did."--"This too, (he added,) might be retorted by an
advocate for Steele, who might alledge, that he did not repay the loan intentionally, merely
to see whether Addison would be mean and ungenerous enough to make use of legal process to
recover it. But of such speculations there is no end: we cannot dive into the hearts of men;
but their actions are open to observation[185]."

'I then mentioned to him that some people thought that Mr. Addison's character was so pure,
that the fact, though true, ought to have been suppressed[186]. He saw no reason for this[187].
"If nothing but the bright side of characters should be shewn, we should sit down in despondency,
and think it utterly impossible to imitate them in any thing. The sacred writers (he observed)
related the vicious as well as the virtuous actions of men; which had this moral effect, that
it kept mankind from despair, into which otherwise they would naturally fall, were they not
supported by the recollection that others had offended like themselves, and by penitence and
amendment of life had been restored to the favour of Heaven."

'E.M.'

'March 15, 1782.'

The last paragraph of this note is of great importance; and I request that my readers may consider
it with particular attention. It will be afterwards referred to in this work[188].

Various Readings in the Life of ADDISON.

'[But he was our first great example] He was, however, one of our earliest examples of correctness.

And [overlook] despise their masters.

His instructions were such as the [state] character of his [own time] readers made [necessary]
proper.

His purpose was to [diffuse] infuse literary curiosity by gentle and unsuspected conveyance
[among] into the gay, the idle, and the wealthy.

Framed rather for those that [wish] are learning to write.

Domestick [manners] scenes.'

In his Life of PARNELL, I wonder that Johnson omitted to insert an Epitaph which he had long
before composed for that amiable man, without ever writing it down, but which he was so good
as, at my request, to dictate to me, by which means it has been preserved.

     'Hic requiescit THOMAS PARNELL, S.T.P.
        Qui sacerdos pariter et poeta,
        Utrasque partes ita implevit,
        Ut neque sacerdoti suavitas poetae,
        Neo poetae sacerdotis sanctitas[189], deesset.'

     Various Readings in the Life of PARNELL.

'About three years [after] afterwards.

[Did not much want] was in no great need of improvement.

But his prosperity did not last long [was clouded by that which took away all his powers of
enjoying either profit or pleasure, the death of his wife, whom he is said to have lamented
with such sorrow, as hastened his end[190].] His end, whatever was the cause, was now approaching.

In the Hermit, the [composition] narrative, as it is less airy, is less pleasing.'

In the Life of BLACKMORE, we find that writer's reputation generously cleared by Johnson from
the cloud of prejudice which the malignity of contemporary wits had raised around it[191].
In this spirited exertion of justice, he has been imitated by Sir Joshua Reynolds, in his praise
of the architecture of Vanburgh[192].

We trace Johnson's own character in his observations on Blackmore's 'magnanimity as an authour.'
'The incessant attacks of his enemies, whether serious or merry, are never discovered to have
disturbed his quiet, or to have lessened his confidence in himself.' Johnson, I recollect,
once told me, laughing heartily, that he understood it had been said of him, 'He appears not
to feel; but when he is alone, depend upon it, he suffers sadly.' I am as certain as I can
be of any man's real sentiments, that he enjoyed the perpetual shower of little hostile arrows
as evidences of his fame.

Various Readings in the Life of BLACKMORE.

To [set] engage poetry [on the side] in the cause of virtue.

He likewise [established] enforced the truth of Revelation.

[Kindness] benevolence was ashamed to favour.

His practice, which was once [very extensive] invidiously great. There is scarcely any distemper
of dreadful name [of] which he has not [shewn] taught his reader how [it is to be opposed]
to oppose.

Of this [contemptuous] indecent arrogance.

[He wrote] but produced likewise a work of a different kind.

At least [written] compiled with integrity.

Faults which many tongues [were desirous] would have made haste to publish.

But though he [had not] could not boast of much critical knowledge.

He [used] waited for no felicities of fancy.

Or had ever elevated his [mind] views to that ideal perfection which every [mind] genius born
to excel is condemned always to pursue and never overtake.

The [first great] fundamental principle of wisdom and of virtue.'

Various Readings in the Life of PHILIPS.

'His dreaded [rival] antagonist Pope.

They [have not often much] are not loaded with thought.

In his translations from Pindar, he [will not be denied to have reached] found the art of reaching
all the obscurity of the Theban bard.'

Various Readings in the Life of CONGREVE.

'Congreve's conversation must surely have been at least equally pleasing with his writings.

It apparently [requires] pre-supposes a familiar knowledge of many characters.

Reciprocation of [similes] conceits.

The dialogue is quick and [various] sparkling.

Love for Love; a comedy [more drawn from life] of nearer alliance to life.

The general character of his miscellanies is, that they shew little wit and [no] little virtue.

[Perhaps] certainly he had not the fire requisite for the higher species of lyrick poetry.'

Various Readings in the Life of TICKELL.

'[Longed] long wished to peruse it.

At the [accession] arrival of King George.

Fiction [unnaturally] unskilfully compounded of Grecian deities and Gothick fairies.'

Various Readings in the Life of AKENSIDE.

'For [another] a different purpose.

[A furious] an unnecessary and outrageous zeal.

[Something which] what he called and thought liberty.

A [favourer of innovation] lover of contradiction.

Warburton's [censure] objections.

His rage [for liberty] of patriotism.

Mr. Dyson with [a zeal] an ardour of friendship.'

In the Life of LYTTELTON, Johnson seems to have been not favourably disposed towards that nobleman[193].
Mrs. Thrale suggests that he was offended by Molly Aston's[194] preference of his Lordship
to him[195]. I can by no means join in the censure bestowed by Johnson on his Lordship, whom
he calls 'poor Lyttelton,' for returning thanks to the Critical Reviewers for having 'kindly
commended' his Dialogues of the Dead. Such 'acknowledgements (says my friend) never can be
proper, since they must be paid either for flattery or for justice.' In my opinion, the most
upright man, who has been tried on a false accusation, may, when he is acquitted, make a bow
to his jury. And when those who are so much the arbiters of literary merit, as in a considerable
degree to influence the publick opinion, review an authour's work, placido lumine[196], when
I am afraid mankind in general are better pleased with severity, he may surely express a grateful
sense of their civility[197].

Various Readings in the Life of LYTTELTON.

'He solaced [himself] his grief by writing a long poem to her memory.

The production rather [of a mind that means well than thinks vigorously] as it seems of leisure
than of study, rather effusions than compositions.

His last literary [work] production.

[Found the way] undertook to persuade.'

As the introduction to his critical examination of the genius and writings of YOUNG, he did
Mr. Herbert Croft[198], then a Barrister of Lincoln's-inn, now a clergyman, the honour to adopt[199]
a Life of Young written by that gentleman, who was the friend of Dr. Young's son, and wished
to vindicate him from some very erroneous remarks to his prejudice. Mr. Croft's performance
was subjected to the revision of Dr. Johnson, as appears from the following note to Mr. John
Nichols[200]:--

'This Life of Dr. Young was written by a friend of his son. What is crossed with black is expunged
by the authour, what is crossed with red is expunged by me. If you find any thing more that
can be well omitted, I shall not be sorry to see it yet shorter[201]'

It has always appeared to me to have a considerable share of merit, and to display a pretty
successful imitation of Johnson's style. When I mentioned this to a very eminent literary character[202],
he opposed me vehemently, exclaiming, 'No, no, it is not a good imitation of Johnson; it has
all his pomp without his force; it has all the nodosities of the oak without its strength.'
This was an image so happy, that one might have thought he would have been satisfied with it;
but he was not. And setting his mind again to work, he added, with exquisite felicity, 'It
has all the contortions of the Sybil, without the inspiration.'

Mr. Croft very properly guards us against supposing that Young was a gloomy man[203]; and mentions,
that 'his parish was indebted to the good-humour of the authour of the Night Thoughts for an
Assembly and a Bowling-Green[204].' A letter from a noble foreigner is quoted, in which he
is said to have been 'very pleasant in conversation[205].'

Mr. Langton, who frequently visited him, informs me, that there was an air of benevolence in
his manner, but that he could obtain from him less information than he had hoped to receive
from one who had lived so much in intercourse with the brightest men of what has been called
the Augustan age of England; and that he shewed a degree of eager curiosity concerning the
common occurrences that were then passing, which appeared somewhat remarkable in a man of such
intellectual stores, of such an advanced age, and who had retired from life with declared disappointment
in his expectations.

An instance at once of his pensive turn of mind, and his cheerfulness of temper, appeared in
a little story which he himself told to Mr. Langton, when they were walking in his garden:
'Here (said he) I had put a handsome sun-dial, with this inscription, Eheu fugaces![206] which
(speaking with a smile) was sadly verified, for by the next morning my dial had been carried
off.'[207]

'It gives me much pleasure to observe, that however Johnson may have casually talked,[208]
yet when he sits, as "an ardent judge zealous to his trust, giving sentence" [209] upon the
excellent works of Young, he allows them the high praise to which they are justly entitled.
"The Universal Passion (says he) is indeed a very great performance,--his distichs have the
weight of solid sentiment, and his points the sharpness of resistless truth."'[210]

But I was most anxious concerning Johnson's decision upon Night Thoughts, which I esteem as
a mass of the grandest and richest poetry that human genius has ever produced; and was delighted
to find this character of that work: 'In his Night Thoughts, he has exhibited a very wide display
of original poetry, variegated with deep reflections and striking allusions; a wilderness of
thought, in which the fertility of fancy scatters flowers of every hue and of every odour.
This is one of the few poems in which blank verse could not be changed for rhime but with disadvantage.'[211]
And afterwards, 'Particular lines are not to be regarded; the power is in the whole; and in
the whole there is a magnificence like that ascribed to Chinese plantation[212], the magnificence
of vast extent and endless diversity.'

But there is in this Poem not only all that Johnson so well brings in view, but a power of
the Pathetick beyond almost any example that I have seen. He who does not feel his nerves shaken,
and his heart pierced by many passages in this extraordinary work, particularly by that most
affecting one, which describes the gradual torment suffered by the contemplation of an object
of affectionate attachment, visibly and certainly decaying into dissolution, must be of a hard
and obstinate frame[213].

To all the other excellencies of Night Thoughts let me add the great and peculiar one, that
they contain not only the noblest sentiments of virtue, and contemplations on immortality,
but the Christian Sacrifice, the Divine Propitiation, with all its interesting circumstances,
and consolations to 'a wounded spirit[214],' solemnly and poetically displayed in such imagery
and language, as cannot fail to exalt, animate, and soothe the truly pious. No book whatever
can be recommended to young persons, with better hopes of seasoning their minds with vital
religion, than YOUNG'S Night Thoughts.

In the Life of SWIFT, it appears to me that Johnson had a certain degree of prejudice against
that extraordinary man, of which I have elsewhere had occasion to speak[215]. Mr. Thomas Sheridan
imputed it to a supposed apprehension in Johnson, that Swift had not been sufficiently active
in obtaining for him an Irish degree when it was solicited[216], but of this there was not
sufficient evidence; and let me not presume to charge Johnson with injustice, because he did
not think so highly of the writings of this authour, as I have done from my youth upwards.
Yet that he had an unfavourable bias is evident, were it only from that passage in which he
speaks of Swift's practice of saving, as, 'first ridiculous and at last detestable;' and yet
after some examination of circumstances, finds himself obliged to own, that 'it will perhaps
appear that he only liked one mode of expence better than another, and saved merely that he
might have something to give[217].'

One observation which Johnson makes in Swift's life should be often inculcated:--

'It may be justly supposed, that there was in his conversation what appears so frequently in
his letters, an affectation of familiarity with the great, an ambition of momentary equality,
sought and enjoyed by the neglect of those ceremonies which custom has established as the barriers
between one order of society and another. This transgression of regularity was by himself and
his admirers termed greatness of soul; but a great mind disdains to hold any thing by courtesy,
and therefore never usurps what a lawful claimant may take away. He that encroaches on another's
dignity puts himself in his power; he is either repelled with helpless indignity, or endured
by clemency and condescension[218].'

Various Readings in the Life of Swift.

'Charity may be persuaded to think that it might be written by a man of a peculiar [opinions]
character, without ill intention.

He did not [disown] deny it.

'[To] by whose kindness it is not unlikely that he was [indebted for] advanced to his benefices.

[With] for this purpose he had recourse to Mr. Harley.

Sharpe, whom he [represents] describes as "the harmless tool of others' hate."

Harley was slow because he was [irresolute] doubtful.

When [readers were not many] we were not yet a nation of readers.

[Every man who] he that could say he knew him.

Every man of known influence has so many [more] petitions [than] which he [can] cannot grant,
that he must necessarily offend more than he [can gratify] gratifies.

Ecclesiastical [preferments] benefices.

'Swift [procured] contrived an interview.

[As a writer] In his works he has given very different specimens.

On all common occasions he habitually [assumes] affects a style of [superiority] arrogance.

By the [omission] neglect of those ceremonies.

That their merits filled the world [and] or that there was no [room for] hope of more.'

I have not confined myself to the order of the Lives, in making my few remarks. Indeed a different
order is observed in the original publication, and in the collection of Johnson's Works. And
should it be objected, that many of my various readings are inconsiderable, those who make
the objection will be pleased to consider, that such small particulars are intended for those
who are nicely critical in composition, to whom they will be an acceptable selection[219].

Spence's Anecdotes, which are frequently quoted and referred to in Johnson's Lives of the Poets,
are in a manuscript collection, made by the Reverend Mr. Joseph Spence[220], containing a number
of particulars concerning eminent men. To each anecdote is marked the name of the person on
whose authority it is mentioned. This valuable collection is the property of the Duke of Newcastle,
who upon the application of Sir Lucas Pepys, was pleased to permit it to be put into the hands
of Dr. Johnson, who I am sorry to think made but an aukward return. 'Great assistance (says
he) has been given me by Mr. Spence's Collection, of which I consider the communication as
a favour worthy of publick acknowledgement[221];' but he has not owned to whom he was obliged;
so that the acknowledgement is unappropriated to his Grace. Were I capable of paying a suitable
tribute of admiration to him, I should certainly not withhold it at a moment[226] when it is
not possible that I should be suspected of being an interested flatterer. But how weak would
be my voice after that of the millions whom he governed. His condescending and obliging compliance
with my solicitation, I with humble gratitude acknowledge; and while by publishing his letter
to me, accompanying the valuable communication, I do eminent honour to my great friend, I shall
entirely disregard any invidious suggestions, that as I in some degree participate in the honour,
I have, at the same time, the gratification of my own vanity in view.

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ. Park Lane, Dec. 2, 1790.

SIR,

I have been fortunately spared the troublesome suspense of a long search, to which, in performance
of my promise, I had devoted this morning, by lighting upon the objects of it among the first
papers that I laid my hands on: my veneration for your great and good friend, Dr. Johnson,
and the pride, or I hope something of a better sentiment, which I indulged in possessing such
memorials of his good will towards me, having induced me to bind them in a parcel containing
other select papers, and labelled with the titles appertaining to them. They consist but of
three letters, which I believe were all that I ever received from Dr. Johnson. Of these, one,
which was written in quadruplicate, under the different dates of its respective dispatches,
has already been made publick[227], but not from any communication of mine. This, however,
I have joined to the rest; and have now the pleasure of sending them to you for the use to
which you informed me it was your desire to destine them.

'My promise was pledged with the condition, that if the letters were found to contain any thing
which should render them improper for the publick eye, you would dispense with the performance
of it. You will have the goodness, I am sure, to pardon my recalling this stipulation to your
recollection, as I should be both to appear negligent of that obligation which is always implied
in an epistolary confidence. In the reservation of that right I have read them over with the
most scrupulous attention, but have not seen in them the slightest cause on that ground to
withhold them from you. But, though not on that, yet on another ground I own I feel a little,
yet but a little, reluctance to part with them: I mean on that of my own credit, which I fear
will suffer by the information conveyed by them, that I was early in the possession of such
valuable instructions for the beneficial employment of the influence of my late station, and
(as it may seem) have so little availed myself of them. Whether I could, if it were necessary,
defend myself against such an imputation, it little concerns the world to know. I look only
to the effect which these relicks may produce, considered as evidences of the virtues of their
authour: and believing that they will be found to display an uncommon warmth of private friendship,
and a mind ever attentive to the improvement and extension of useful knowledge, and solicitous
for the interests of mankind, I can cheerfully submit to the little sacrifice of my own fame,
to contribute to the illustration of so great and venerable a character. They cannot be better
applied, for that end, than by being entrusted to your hands. Allow me, with this offering,
to infer from it a proof of the very great esteem with which I have the honour to profess myself,
Sir,

     Your most obedient
          And most humble servant,
              'WARREN HASTINGS.'

'P.S. At some future time, and when you have no further occasion for these papers, I shall
be obliged to you if you would return them.'

The last of the three letters thus graciously put into my hands, and which has already appeared
in publick, belongs to this year; but I shall previously insert the first two in the order
of their dates. They altogether form a grand group in my biographical picture.

TO THE HONOURABLE WARREN HASTINGS, ESQ.

'SIR,

Though I have had but little personal knowledge of you, I have had enough to make me wish for
more; and though it be now a long time since I was honoured by your visit, I had too much pleasure
from it to forget it. By those whom we delight to remember, we are unwilling to be forgotten;
and therefore I cannot omit this opportunity of reviving myself in your memory by a letter
which you will receive from the hands of my friend Mr. Chambers[228]; a man, whose purity of
manners and vigour of mind are sufficient to make every thing welcome that he brings.

That this is my only reason for writing, will be too apparent by the uselessness of my letter
to any other purpose. I have no questions to ask; not that I want curiosity after either the
ancient or present state of regions in which have been seen all the power and splendour of
wide-extended empire; and which, as by some grant of natural superiority, supply the rest of
the world with almost all that pride desires and luxury enjoys. But my knowledge of them is
too scanty to furnish me with proper topicks of enquiry; I can only wish for information; and
hope, that a mind comprehensive like yours will find leisure, amidst the cares of your important
station, to enquire into many subjects of which the European world either thinks not at all,
or thinks with deficient intelligence and uncertain conjecture. I shall hope, that he who once
intended to increase the learning of his country by the introduction of the Persian language[229],
will examine nicely the traditions and histories of the East; that he will survey the wonders
of its ancient edifices, and trace the vestiges of its ruined cities; and that, at his return,
we shall know the arts and opinions of a race of men, from whom very little has been hitherto
derived.

You, Sir, have no need of being told by me, how much may be added by your attention and patronage
to experimental knowledge and natural history. There are arts of manufacture practised in the
countries in which you preside, which are yet very imperfectly known here, either to artificers
or philosophers. Of the natural productions, animate and inanimate, we yet have so little intelligence,
that our books are filled, I fear, with conjectures about things which an Indian peasant knows
by his senses.

Many of those things my first wish is to see; my second to know, by such accounts as a man
like you will be able to give.

As I have not skill to ask proper questions, I have likewise no such access to great men as
can enable me to send you any political information. Of the agitations of an unsettled government,
and the struggles of a feeble ministry[230], care is doubtless taken to give you more exact
accounts than I can obtain. If you are inclined to interest yourself much in publick transactions,
it is no misfortune to you to be so distant from them.

That literature is not totally forsaking us, and that your favourite language is not neglected,
will appear from the book[231], which I should have pleased myself more with sending, if I
could have presented it bound: but time was wanting. I beg, however, Sir, that you will accept
it from a man very desirous of your regard; and that if you think me able to gratify you by
any thing more important you will employ me.

I am now going to take leave, perhaps a very long leave, of my dear Mr. Chambers. That he is
going to live where you govern, may justly alleviate the regret of parting; and the hope of
seeing both him and you again, which I am not willing to mingle with doubt, must at present
comfort as it can, Sir, Your most humble servant,

SAM. JOHNSON. March 30, 1774.'

To THE SAME.

'SIR, Being informed that by the departure of a ship, there is now an opportunity of writing
to Bengal, I am unwilling to slip out of your memory by my own negligence, and therefore take
the liberty of reminding you of my existence, by sending you a book which is not yet made publick.

I have lately visited a region less remote, and less illustrious than India, which afforded
some occasions for speculation; what has occurred to me, I have put into the volume[232], of
which I beg your acceptance.

Men in your station seldom have presents totally disinterested; my book is received, let me
now make my request.

There is, Sir, somewhere within your government, a young adventurer, one Chauncey Lawrence,
whose father is one of my oldest friends. Be pleased to shew the young man what countenance
is fit, whether he wants to be restrained by your authority, or encouraged by your favour.
His father is now President of the College of Physicians, a man venerable for his knowledge,
and more venerable for his virtue[233].

I wish you a prosperous government, a safe return, and a long enjoyment of plenty and tranquillity.

     I am, Sir,
        Your most obedient
          And most humble servant,

                 SAM. JOHNSON[234].

London, Dec. 20, 1774.'

TO THE SAME.

'Jan. 9, 1781.

Sir,

Amidst the importance and multiplicity of affairs in which your great office engages you, I
take the liberty of recalling your attention for a moment to literature, and will not prolong
the interruption by an apology which your character makes needless.

Mr. Hoole, a gentleman long known, and long esteemed in the India-House, after having translated
Tasso[235], has undertaken Ariosto. How well he is qualified for his undertaking he has already
shewn. He is desirous, Sir, of your favour in promoting his proposals, and flatters me by supposing
that my testimony may advance his interest.

It is a new thing for a clerk of the India-House to translate poets; --it is new for a Governour
of Bengal to patronize learning. That he may find his ingenuity rewarded, and that learning
may flourish under your protection, is the wish of, Sir, Your most humble servant,

SAM. JOHNSON.'

March, 14, 1781.

He said, 'Mrs. Montagu has dropt me. I was one of the Counsel for the sitting member, and took
the liberty of previously stating different points to Johnson, who never failed to see them
clearly, and to supply me with some good hints. He dictated to me the following note upon the
registration of deeds:--

'All laws are made for the convenience of the community: what is legally done, should be legally
recorded, that the state of things may be known, and that wherever evidence is requisite, evidence
may be had. For this reason, the obligation to frame and establish a legal register is enforced
by a legal penalty, which penalty is the want of that perfection and plentitude of right which
a register would give. Thence it follows, that this is not an objection merely legal: for the
reason on which the law stands being equitable, makes it an equitable objection.'

'This (said he) you must enlarge on, when speaking to the Committee. You must not argue there
as if you were arguing in the schools[246]; close reasoning will not fix their attention; you
must say the same thing over and over again, in different words. If you say it but once, they
miss it in a moment of inattention. A due sense of the dignity of their profession, independent
of higher motives, will ever prevent them from losing their distinction in an indiscriminate
sociality; and did such as affect this, know how much it lessens them in the eyes of those
whom they think to please by it, they would feel themselves much mortified. Dr. Porteus, now
Bishop of London, in his excellent charge when presiding over the diocese of Chester, justly
animadverts upon this subject; and observes of a reverend fop, that he 'can be but half a beau[252].'

Addison, in The Spectator[253], has given us a fine portrait of a clergyman, who is supposed
to be a member of his Club; and Johnson has exhibited a model, in the character of Mr. Mudge[254],
which has escaped the collectors of his works, but which he owned to me, and which indeed he
shewed to Sir Joshua Reynolds at the time when it was written. It bears the genuine marks of
Johnson's best manner, and is as follows[255]:--

'The Reverend Mr. Zacariah Mudge, Prebendary of Exeter, and Vicar of St. Andrew's in Plymouth;
a man equally eminent for his virtues and abilities, and at once beloved as a companion and
reverenced as a pastor. He had that general curiosity to which no kind of knowledge is indifferent
or superfluous; and that general benevolence by which no order of men is hated or despised.

His principles both of thought and action were great and comprehensive. By a solicitous examination
of objections, and judicious comparison of opposite arguments, he attained what enquiry never
gives but to industry and perspicuity, a firm and unshaken settlement of conviction. But his
firmness was without asperity; for, knowing with how much difficulty truth was sometimes found,
he did not wonder that many missed it.

The general course of his life was determined by his profession; he studied the sacred volumes
in the original languages; with what diligence and success, his Notes upon the Psalms give
sufficient evidence. He once endeavoured to add the knowledge of Arabick to that of Hebrew;
but finding his thoughts too much diverted from other studies, after some time desisted from
his purpose.

His discharge of parochial duties was exemplary. How his Sermons[256] were composed, may be
learned from the excellent volume which he has given to the publick; but how they were delivered,
can be known only to those that heard them; for as he appeared in the pulpit, words will not
easily describe him. His delivery, though unconstrained was not negligent, and though forcible
was not turbulent; disdaining anxious nicety of emphasis, and laboured artifice of action,
it captivated the hearer by its natural dignity, it roused the sluggish, and fixed the volatile,
and detained the mind upon the subject, without directing it to the speaker.

The grandeur and solemnity of the preacher did not intrude upon his general behaviour; at the
table of his friends he was a companion communicative and attentive, of unaffected manners,
of manly cheerfulness, willing to please, and easy to be pleased. His acquaintance was universally
solicited, and his presence obstructed no enjoyment which religion did not forbid. JOHNSON.
'Harte was excessively vain. He put copies of his book in manuscript into the hands of Lord
Chesterfield and Lord Granville, that they might revise it. Now how absurd was it to suppose
that two such noblemen would revise so big a manuscript. Poor man! he left London the day of
the publication of his book, that he might be out of the way of the great praise he was to
receive; and he was ashamed to return, when he found how ill his book had succeeded. It was
unlucky in coming out on the same day with Robertson's History of Scotland[259]. His husbandry[260],
however, is good.' BOSWELL. A nobleman[264] wrote a play, called Love in a hollow Tree. He
found out that it was a bad one, and therefore wished to buy up all the copies, and burn them.
His blood is upon your head[273]. I have preserved only two particulars of his conversation.
He said he was glad Lord George Gordon had escaped[287], rather than that a precedent should
be established for hanging a man for constructive treason; which, in consistency with his true,
manly, constitutional Toryism, he considered would be a dangerous engine of arbitrary power.
And upon its being mentioned that an opulent and very indolent Scotch nobleman, who totally
resigned the management of his affairs to a man of knowledge and abilities, had claimed some
merit by saying, 'The next best thing to managing a man's own affairs well is being sensible
of incapacity, and not attempting it, but having full confidence in one who can do it:' JOHNSON.
'Nay, Sir, this is paltry. There is a middle course. Let a man give application; and depend
upon it he will soon get above a despicable state of helplessness, and attain the power of
acting for himself.'

On Saturday, April 7, I dined with him at Mr. Hoole's with Governour Bouchier and Captain Orme,
both of whom had been long in the East-Indies; and being men of good sense and observation,
were very entertaining. Johnson defended the oriental regulation of different casts of men,
which was objected to as totally destructive of the hopes of rising in society by personal
merit. He shewed that there was a principle in it sufficiently plausible by analogy. 'We see
(said he) in metals that there are different species; and so likewise in animals, though one
species may not differ very widely from another, as in the species of dogs,--the cur, the spaniel,
the mastiff. The Bramins are the mastiffs of mankind.'

On Thursday, April 12, I dined with him at a Bishop's, where were Sir Joshua Reynolds, Mr.
Berrenger, and some more company. He had dined the day before at another Bishop's. I have unfortunately
recorded none of his conversation at the Bishop's where we dined together[288]: but I have
preserved his ingenious defence of his dining twice abroad in Passion-week[289]; a laxity,
in which I am convinced he would not have indulged himself at the time when he wrote his solemn
paper in The Rambler[290], upon that aweful season. It appeared to me, that by being much more
in company, and enjoying more luxurious living, he had contracted a keener relish of pleasure,
and was consequently less rigorous in his religious rites. This he would not acknowledge; but
he reasoned with admirable sophistry, as follows: 'Why, Sir, a Bishop's calling company together
in this week is, to use the vulgar phrase, not the thing. But you must consider laxity is a
bad thing; but preciseness is also a bad thing; and your general character may be more hurt
by preciseness than by dining with a Bishop in Passion-week. There might be a handle for reflection.
It might be said, 'He refused to dine with a Bishop in Passion-week, but was three Sundays
absent from Church.' BOSWELL. 'Very true, Sir. But suppose a man to be uniformly of good conduct,
would it not be better that he should refuse to dine with a Bishop in this week, and so not
encourage a bad practice by his example?' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, you are to consider whether you
might not do more harm by lessening the influence of a Bishop's character by your disapprobation
in refusing him, than by going to him.'

TO MRS. LUCY PORTER, IN LICHFIELD.

'DEAR MADAM,

'Life is full of troubles. I have just lost my dear friend Thrale. I hope he is happy; but
I have had a great loss. I am otherwise pretty well. I require some care of myself, but that
care is not ineffectual; and when I am out of order, I think it often my own fault.

'The spring is now making quick advances. As it is the season in which the whole world is enlivened
and invigorated, I hope that both you and I shall partake of its benefits. My desire is to
see Lichfield; but being left executor to my friend, I know not whether I can be spared; but
I will try, for it is now long since we saw one another, and how little we can promise ourselves
many more interviews, we are taught by hourly examples of mortality. Let us try to live so
as that mortality may not be an evil. Write to me soon, my dearest; your letters will give
me great pleasure.

'I am sorry that Mr. Porter has not had his box; but by sending it to Mr. Mathias, who very
readily undertook its conveyance, I did the best I could, and perhaps before now he has it.

'Be so kind as to make my compliments to my friends; I have a great value for their kindness,
and hope to enjoy it before summer is past. Do write to me. I am, dearest love,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. Dr. Johnson did not seem willing to admit this. Dr. Scott, as a confirmation of it, related,
that Blackstone, a sober man, composed his Commentaries with a bottle of port before him; and
found his mind invigorated and supported in the fatigue of his great work, by a temperate use
of it[295].

I told him, that in a company where I had lately been, a desire was expressed to know his authority
for the shocking story of Addison's sending an execution into Steele's house[296]. 'Sir, (said
he,) it is generally known, it is known to all who are acquainted with the literary history
of that period. It is as well known, as that he wrote Cato.' Mr. Thomas Sheridan once defended
Addison to me, by alledging that he did it in order to cover Steele's goods from other creditors,
who were going to seize them.

I mentioned a kind of religious Robinhood Society[301], which met every Sunday evening, at
Coachmakers'-hall, for free debate; and that the subject for this night was, the text which
relates, with other miracles, which happened at our SAVIOUR'S death, 'And the graves were opened,
and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came out of the graves after his resurrection,
and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many[302].' Mrs. Hall said it was a very curious
subject, and she should like to hear it discussed. JOHNSON, (somewhat warmly) 'One would not
go to such a place to hear it,--one would not be seen in such a place--to give countenance
to such a meeting.' I, however, resolved that I would go. 'But, Sir, (said she to Johnson,)
I should like to hear you discuss it.' He seemed reluctant to engage in it. She talked of the
resurrection of the human race in general, and maintained that we shall be raised with the
same bodies. JOHNSON. 'Nay, Madam, we see that it is not to be the same body; for the Scripture
uses the illustration of grain sown, and we know that the grain which grows is not the same
with what is sown[303]. You cannot suppose that we shall rise with a diseased body; it is enough
if there be such a sameness as to distinguish identity of person.' She seemed desirous of knowing
more, but he left the question in obscurity. She was then at Lichfield; but nothing ensued[306].

I stole away to Coachmakers'-hall, and heard the difficult text of which we had talked, discussed
with great decency, and some intelligence, by several speakers. There was a difference of opinion
as to the appearance of ghosts in modern times, though the arguments for it, supported by Mr.
Addison's authority[308], preponderated. The immediate subject of debate was embarrassed by
the bodies of the saints having been said to rise, and by the question what became of them
afterwards; did they return again to their graves? or were they translated to heaven? Only
one evangelist mentions the fact[309], and the commentators whom I have looked at, do not make
the passage clear. There is, however, no occasion for our understanding it farther, than to
know that it was one of the extraordinary manifestations of divine power, which accompanied
the most important event that ever happened. Mr. Beauclerk, with happy propriety, inscribed
under that fine portrait of him, which by Lady Diana's kindness is now the property of my friend
Mr. Langton, the following passage from his beloved Shakspeare:--

     'A merrier man,
      Within the limit of becoming mirth,
      I never spent an hour's talk withal. JOHNSON. 'But it certainly may. This is a
remark which has been made, and repeated, without justice; why should
the life of a literary man be less entertaining than the life of any
other man? Are there not as interesting varieties in such a life[322]?
As a literary life it may be very entertaining.' BOSWELL. 'But it must
be better surely, when it is diversified with a little active variety--
such as his having gone to Jamaica; or--his having gone to the
Hebrides.' Johnson was not displeased at this.

One day having spoken very freely of those who were then in power, he said to me, 'Between
ourselves, Sir, I do not like to give opposition the satisfaction of knowing how much I disapprove
of the ministry.' And when I mentioned that Mr. Burke had boasted how quiet the nation was
in George the Second's reign, when Whigs were in power, compared with the present reign, when
Tories governed;--'Why, Sir, (said he,) you are to consider that Tories having more reverence
for government, will not oppose with the same violence as Whigs, who being unrestrained by
that principle, will oppose by any means.'

This month he lost not only Mr. Thrale, but another friend, Mr. William Strahan, Junior, printer,
the eldest son of his old and constant friend, Printer to his Majesty.

'TO MRS. STRAHAN.

'DEAR MADAM,

'The grief which I feel for the loss of a very kind friend is sufficient to make me know how
much you suffer by the death of an amiable son; a man, of whom I think it may truly be said,
that no one knew him who does not lament him. I look upon myself as having a friend, another
friend, taken from me.

'Comfort, dear Madam, I would give you if I could, but I know how little the forms of consolation
can avail. Let me, however, counsel you not to waste your health in unprofitable sorrow, but
go to Bath, and endeavour to prolong your own life; but when we have all done all that we can,
one friend must in time lose the other.

'I am, dear Madam,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'April 23, 1781.'

On Tuesday, May 8[325], I had the pleasure of again dining with him and Mr. Wilkes, at Mr.
Billy's[326]. 'Upon the continent they all quote the vulgate Bible. Shakspeare is chiefly quoted
here; and we quote also Pope, Prior, Butler, Waller, and sometimes Cowley[330].'

We talked of Letter-writing. JOHNSON. 'It is now become so much the fashion to publish letters,
that in order to avoid it, I put as little into mine as I can.[331]' BOSWELL. 'Do what you
will, Sir, you cannot avoid it. 'But this does not move the passions.' JOHNSON. 'He must be
a weak man, who is to be so moved.' WlLKES. JOHNSON. 'Is there not a law, Sir, against exporting
the current coin of the realm?' WlLKES. 'Yes, Sir: but might not the House of Commons, in case
of real evident necessity, order our own current coin to be sent into our own colonies?' Here
Johnson, with that quickness of recollection which distinguished him so eminently, gave the
Middlesex Patriot an admirable retort upon his own ground. 'Sure, Sir, you don't think a resolution
of the House of Commons equal to the law of the land[339].' WlLKES. (at once perceiving the
application) 'GOD forbid, Sir.' To hear what had been treated with such violence in The False
Alarm, now turned into pleasant repartee, was extremely agreeable. Johnson went on;--'Locke
observes well, that a prohibition to export the current coin is impolitick; for when the balance
of trade happens to be against a state, the current coin must be exported[340].'

Mr. Beauclerk's great library[341] was this season sold in London by auction. Mr. Wilkes said,
he wondered to find in it such a numerous collection of sermons; seeming to think it strange
that a gentleman of Mr. Beauclerk's character in the gay world should have chosen to have many
compositions of that kind. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, you are to consider, that sermons make a considerable
branch of English literature[342]; so that a library must be very imperfect if it has not a
numerous collection of sermons[343]: and in all collections, Sir, the desire of augmenting
it grows stronger in proportion to the advance in acquisition; as motion is accelerated by
the continuance of the impetus. Besides, Sir, (looking at Mr. Wilkes with a placid but significant
smile) a man may collect sermons with intention of making himself better by them. However,
when a few days afterwards I waited upon him and made an apology, he behaved with the most
friendly gentleness[353]. He was in this like Dr. Shaw, the great traveller[361], who Mr. Daines
Barrington[362] told me, used to say, 'I hate a cui bono man.' Upon being asked by a friend[363]
what he should think of a man who was apt to say non est tanti;-'That he's a stupid fellow,
Sir; (answered Johnson): What would these tanti men be doing the while?' When I in a low-spirited
fit, was talking to him with indifference of the pursuits which generally engage us in a course
of action, and inquiring a reason for taking so much trouble; 'Sir (said he, in an animated
tone) it is driving on the system of life.'

He told me, that he was glad that I had, by General Oglethorpe's means, become acquainted with
Dr. Shebbeare. Indeed that gentleman, whatever objections were made to him, had knowledge and
abilities much above the class of ordinary writers, and deserves to be remembered as a respectable
name in literature, were it only for his admirable Letters on the English Nation, under the
name of 'Battista Angeloni, a Jesuit[364].'

Johnson and Shebbeare[365] were frequently named together, as having in former reigns had no
predilection for the family of Hanover. The authour of the celebrated Heroick Epistle to Sir
William Chambers, introduces them in one line, in a list of those 'who tasted the sweets of
his present Majesty's reign[366].' Such was Johnson's candid relish of the merit of that satire,
that he allowed Dr. Goldsmith, as he told me, to read it to him from beginning to end, and
did not refuse his praise to its execution[367]. My friend was of opinion, that when a man
of rank appeared in that character, he deserved to have his merit handsomely allowed[369].
When I warmly declared how happy I was at all times to hear him;--'Yes, Sir, (said he); but
if you were Lord Chancellor, it would not be so: you would then consider your own dignity.'

There was much truth and knowledge of human nature in this remark. But certainly one should
think, that in whatever elevated state of life a man who knew the value of the conversation
of Johnson might be placed, though he might prudently avoid a situation in which he might appear
lessened by comparison; yet he would frequently gratify himself in private with the participation
of the rich intellectual entertainment which Johnson could furnish.

One day, when I told him that I was a zealous Tory, but not enough 'according to knowledge[378],'
and should be obliged to him for 'a reason[379],' he was so candid, and expressed himself so
well, that I begged of him to repeat what he had said, and I wrote down as follows:--

OF TORY AND WHIG.

'A wise Tory and a wise Whig, I believe, will agree[380]. Their principles are the same, though
their modes of thinking are different. A high Tory makes government unintelligible: it is lost
in the clouds. A violent Whig makes it impracticable: he is for allowing so much liberty to
every man, that there is not power enough to govern any man. The prejudice of the Tory is for
establishment; the prejudice of the Whig is for innovation. A Tory does not wish to give more
real power to Government; but that Government should have more reverence. Then they differ
as to the Church. The Tory is not for giving more legal power to the Clergy, but wishes they
should have a considerable influence, founded on the opinion of mankind; the Whig is for limiting
and watching them with a narrow jealousy.'

To MR. PERKINS.

'SIR,

However often I have seen you, I have hitherto forgotten the note, but I have now sent it:
with my good wishes for the prosperity of you and your partner[381], of whom, from our short
conversation, I could not judge otherwise than favourably.

I am, Sir,

Your most humble servant,

SAM. JOHNSON. He pointed out to me the following remarkable passage[384]:--

'By what means (said the prince) are the Europeans thus powerful; or why, since they can so
easily visit Asia and Africa for trade or conquest, cannot the Asiaticks and Africans invade
their coasts, plant colonies in their ports, and give laws to their natural princes? The same
wind that carries them back would bring us thither.' 'They are more powerful, Sir, than we,
(answered Imlac,) because they are wiser. Knowledge will always predominate over ignorance,
as man governs the other animals.

We went into the church, and looked at the monument erected by Mr. Young to his father. Mr.
Young mentioned an anecdote, that his father had received several thousand pounds of subscription-money
for his Universal Passion, but had lost it in the South-Sea[391]. Dr. Johnson thought this
must be a mistake; for he had never seen a subscription-book. A middle notion I believe to
be the just one, which is, that communicants need not think a long train of preparatory forms
indispensibly necessary; but neither should they rashly and lightly venture upon so aweful
and mysterious an institution. Christians must judge each for himself, what degree of retirement
and self-examination is necessary upon each occasion.

Being in a frame of mind which, I hope for the felicity of human nature, many experience,--in
fine weather,--at the country house of a friend,--consoled and elevated by pious exercises,--I
expressed myself with an unrestrained fervour to my 'Guide, Philosopher, and Friend[393];'
'My dear Sir, I would fain be a good man; and I am very good now[394]. I fear GOD, and honour
the King, I wish to do no ill, and to be benevolent to all mankind.' He looked at me with a
benignant indulgence; but took occasion to give me wise and salutary caution. 'Do not, Sir,
accustom yourself to trust to impressions. There is a middle state of mind between conviction
and hypocrisy, of which many are conscious[395]. By trusting to impressions, a man may gradually
come to yield to them, and at length be subject to them, so as not to be a free agent, or what
is the same thing in effect, to suppose that he is not a free agent. A man who is in that state,
should not be suffered to live; if he declares he cannot help acting in a particular way, and
is irresistibly impelled, there can be no confidence in him, no more than in a tyger. But,
Sir, no man believes himself to be impelled irresistibly; we know that he who says he believes
it, lies. Favourable impressions at particular moments, as to the state of our souls, may be
deceitful and dangerous. In general no man can be sure of his acceptance with God; some, indeed,
may have had it revealed to them. St. Paul, who wrought miracles, may have had a miracle wrought
on himself, and may have obtained supernatural assurance of pardon, and mercy, and beatitude;
yet St. Paul, though he expresses strong hope, also expresses fear, lest having preached to
others, he himself should be a cast-away[396].'

The opinion of a learned Bishop of our acquaintance, as to there being merit in religious faith,
being mentioned;--JOHNSON. 'Why, yes, Sir, the most licentious man, were hell open before him,
would not take the most beautiful strumpet to his arms. We must, as the Apostle says, live
by faith, not by sight[397].'

I talked to him of original sin[398], in consequence of the fall of man, and of the atonement
made by our SAVIOUR. After some conversation, which he desired me to remember, he, at my request,
dictated to me as follows:--

'With respect to original sin, the inquiry is not necessary; for whatever is the cause of human
corruption, men are evidently and confessedly so corrupt, that all the laws of heaven and earth
are insufficient to restrain them from crimes.

'Whatever difficulty there may be in the conception of vicarious punishments, it is an opinion
which has had possession of mankind in all ages. There is no nation that has not used the practice
of sacrifices. Whoever, therefore, denies the propriety of vicarious punishments, holds an
opinion which the sentiments and practice of mankind have contradicted, from the beginning
of the world. The great sacrifice for the sins of mankind was offered at the death of the MESSIAH,
who is called in scripture "The Lamb of God, that taketh away the sins[399] of the world."
To judge of the reasonableness of the scheme of redemption, it must be considered as necessary
to the government of the universe, that GOD should make known his perpetual and irreconcileable
detestation of moral evil. He might indeed punish, and punish only the offenders; but as the
end of punishment is not revenge of crimes, but propagation of virtue, it was more becoming
the Divine clemency to find another manner of proceeding, less destructive to man, and at least
equally powerful to promote goodness. The end of punishment is to reclaim and warn. That punishment
will both reclaim and warn, which shews evidently such abhorrence of sin in GOD, as may deter
us from it, or strike us with dread of vengeance when we have committed it. This is effected
by vicarious punishment. Nothing could more testify the opposition between the nature of GOD
and moral evil, or more amply display his justice, to men and angels, to all orders and successions
of beings, than that it was necessary for the highest and purest nature, even for DIVINITY
itself, to pacify the demands of vengeance, by a painful death; of which the natural effect
will be, that when justice is appeased, there is a proper place for the exercise of mercy;
and that such propitiation shall supply, in some degree, the imperfections of our obedience,
and the inefficacy of our repentance: for, obedience and repentance, such as we can perform,
are still necessary. Our SAVIOUR has told us, that he did not come to destroy the law, but
to fulfill; to fulfill the typical law, by the performance of what those types had foreshewn;
and the moral law, by precepts of greater purity and higher exaltation.'

[Here he said, 'GOD bless you with it.' I acknowledged myself much obliged to him; but I begged
that he would go on as to the propitiation being the chief object of our most holy faith. He
then dictated this one other paragraph.]

'The peculiar doctrine of Christianity is, that of an universal sacrifice, and perpetual propitiation.
Other prophets only proclaimed the will and the threatenings of GOD. CHRIST satisfied his justice[400].'

The Reverend Mr. Palmer[401], Fellow of Queen's College, Cambridge, dined with us. He expressed
a wish that a better provision were made for parish-clerks. JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir, a parish-clerk
should be a man who is able to make a will, or write a letter for any body in the parish.'

I mentioned Lord Monboddo's notion[402] that the ancient Egyptians, with all their learning,
and all their arts, were not only black, but woolly-haired. Mr. Palmer asked how did it appear
upon examining the mummies? Dr. Johnson approved of this test[403]. I however remember nothing
particular, except a nice distinction which Dr. Johnson made with respect to the power of memory,
maintaining that forgetfulness was a man's own fault[409]. 'To remember and to recollect (said
he) are different things. A man has not the power to recollect what is not in his mind; but
when a thing is in his mind he may remember it.' The remark was occasioned by my leaning back
on a chair, which a little before I had perceived to be broken, and pleading forgetfulness
as an excuse. There was an animated glow in his countenance while he thus recalled his high-minded
indignation.

He laughed heartily at a ludicrous action in the Court of Session, in which I was Counsel.
The Society of Procurators, or Attornies, entitled to practise in the inferiour courts at Edinburgh,
had obtained a royal charter, in which they had taken care to have their ancient designation
of Procurators changed into that of Solicitors, from a notion, as they supposed, that it was
more genteel[415]; and this new title they displayed by a publick advertisement for a General
Meeting at their HALL.

It has been said, that the Scottish nation is not distinguished for humour; and, indeed, what
happened on this occasion may in some degree justify the remark: for although this society
had contrived to make themselves a very prominent object for the ridicule of such as might
stoop to it, the only joke to which it gave rise, was the following paragraph, sent to the
newspaper called The Caledonian Mercury:--

'A correspondent informs us, that the Worshipful Society of Chaldeans, Cadies[416], or Running
Stationers of this city are resolved, in imitation, and encouraged by the singular success
of their brethren, of an equally respectable Society, to apply for a Charter of their Privileges,
particularly of the sole privilege of PROCURING, in the most extensive sense of the word[417],
exclusive of chairmen, porters, penny-post men, and other inferiour ranks; their brethren the
R--Y--L S--LL--RS, alias P--C--RS, before the INFERIOUR Courts of this City, always excepted.

'Should the Worshipful Society be successful, they are farther resolved not to be puffed up
thereby, but to demean themselves with more equanimity and decency than their R--y--l, learned,
and very modest brethren above mentioned have done, upon their late dignification and exaltation.'

A majority of the members of the Society prosecuted Mr. Robertson, the publisher of the paper,
for damages; and the first judgement of the whole Court very wisely dismissed the action: Solventur
risu tabulae, tu missus abibis[418]. But a new trial or review was granted upon a petition,
according to the forms in Scotland. This petition I was engaged to answer, and Dr. Johnson
with great alacrity furnished me this evening with what follows:--

'All injury is either of the person, the fortune, or the fame. Now it is a certain thing, it
is proverbially known, that a jest breaks no bones. They never have gained half-a-crown less
in the whole profession since this mischievous paragraph has appeared; and, as to their reputation,
What is their reputation but an instrument of getting money? If, therefore, they have lost
no money, the question upon reputation may be answered by a very old position,--De minimis
non curat Praetor.

'Whether there was, or was not, an animus injuriandi, is not worth inquiring, if no injuria
can be proved. But the truth is, there was no animus injuriandi. It was only an animus irritandi[419],
which, happening to be exercised upon a genus irritabile, produced unexpected violence of resentment.
Their irritability arose only from an opinion of their own importance, and their delight in
their new exaltation. What might have been borne by a Procurator could not be borne by a Solicitor.
Your Lordships well know, that honores mutant mores. Titles and dignities play strongly on
the fancy. As a madman is apt to think himself grown suddenly great, so he that grows suddenly
great is apt to borrow a little from the madman. To co-operate with their resentment would
be to promote their phrenzy; nor is it possible to guess to what they might proceed, if to
the new title of Solicitor, should be added the elation of victory and triumph.

'We consider your Lordships as the protectors of our rights, and the guardians of our virtues;
but believe it not included in your high office, that you should flatter our vices, or solace
our vanity: and, as vanity only dictates this prosecution, it is humbly hoped your Lordships
will dismiss it.

'If every attempt, however light or ludicrous, to lessen another's reputation, is to be punished
by a judicial sentence, what punishment can be sufficiently severe for him who attempts to
diminish the reputation of the Supreme Court of Justice, by reclaiming upon a cause already
determined, without any change in the state of the question? Does it not imply hopes that the
Judges will change their opinion? Is not uncertainty and inconstancy in the highest degree
disreputable to a Court? Does it not suppose, that the former judgement was temerarious or
negligent? Does it not lessen the confidence of the publick? Will it not be said, that jus
est aut incognitum aut vagum? and will not the consequence be drawn, misera est servitus[420]?
Will not the rules of action be obscure? Will not he who knows himself wrong to-day, hope that
the Courts of Justice will think him right to-morrow? Surely, my Lords, these are attempts
of dangerous tendency, which the Solicitors, as men versed in the law, should have foreseen
and avoided. It was natural for an ignorant printer to appeal from the Lord Ordinary; but from
lawyers, the descendants of lawyers, who have practised for three hundred years, and have now
raised themselves to a higher denomination, it might be expected, that they should know the
reverence due to a judicial determination; and, having been once dismissed, should sit down
in silence.'

I am ashamed to mention, that the Court, by a plurality of voices, without having a single
additional circumstance before them, reversed their own judgement, made a serious matter of
this dull and foolish joke, and adjudged Mr. Robertson to pay to the Society five pounds (sterling
money) and costs of suit. The decision will seem strange to English lawyers. The advantage
of an English education is unquestionably very great to Scotch gentlemen of talents and ambition;
and regular visits to Scotland, and perhaps other means, might be effectually used to prevent
them from being totally estranged from their native country, any more than a Cumberland or
Northumberland gentleman who has been educated in the South of England. I own, indeed, that
it is no small misfortune for Scotch gentlemen, who have neither talents nor ambition, to be
educated in England, where they may be perhaps distinguished only by a nick-name, lavish their
fortune in giving expensive entertainments to those who laugh at them, and saunter about as
mere idle insignificant hangers on even upon the foolish great; when if they had been judiciously
brought up at home, they might have been comfortable and creditable members of society.

'To BENNET LANGTON, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'How welcome your account of yourself and your invitation to your new house was to me, I need
not tell you, who consider our friendship not only as formed by choice, but as matured by time.
We have been now long enough acquainted to have many images in common, and therefore to have
a source of conversation which neither the learning nor the wit of a new companion can supply.

'My Lives are now published; and if you will tell me whither I shall send them, that they may
come to you, I will take care that you shall not be without them.

'You will, perhaps, be glad to hear, that Mrs. Thrale is disencumbered of her brewhouse; and
that it seemed to the purchaser so far from an evil, that he was content to give for it an
hundred and thirty-five thousand pounds. Is the nation ruined?

'Please to make my respectful compliments to Lady Rothes, and keep me in the memory of all
the little dear family, particularly pretty Mrs. Jane.[421]

'I am, Sir,

'Your affectionate humble servant, 'SAM. June 23, 1781.'

'To THOMAS ASTLE, Esq.[423]

'SIR,

'I am ashamed that you have been forced to call so often for your books, but it has been by
no fault on either side. They have never been out of my hands, nor have I ever been at home
without seeing you; for to see a man so skilful in the antiquities of my country, is an opportunity
of improvement not willingly to be missed.

'Your notes on Alfred[424] appear to me very judicious and accurate, but they are too few.
Many things familiar to you, are unknown to me, and to most others; and you must not think
too favourably of your readers: by supposing them knowing, you will leave them ignorant. Measure
of land, and value of money, it is of great importance to state with care. Had the Saxons any
gold coin?

'I have much curiosity after the manners and transactions of the middle ages, but have wanted
either diligence or opportunity, or both. You, Sir, have great opportunities, and I wish you
both diligence and success.

'I am, Sir, &c. SAM. JOHNSON. I wrote him one letter to introduce Mr. Sinclair (now Sir John),
the member for Caithness, to his acquaintance; and informed him in another that my wife had
again been affected with alarming symptoms of illness.

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I sit down to answer your letter on the same day in which I received it, and am pleased that
my first letter of the year is to you. No man ought to be at ease while he knows himself in
the wrong; and I have not satisfied myself with my long silence. The letter relating to Mr.
Sinclair, however, was, I believe, never brought.

'My health has been tottering this last year; and I can give no very laudable account of my
time. I am always hoping to do better than I have ever hitherto done.

'My journey to Ashbourne and Staffordshire was not pleasant; for what enjoyment has a sick
man visiting the sick[431]?--Shall we ever have another frolick like our journey to the Hebrides?

'I hope that dear Mrs. Boswell will surmount her complaints; in losing her you would lose your
anchor, and be tost, without stability, by the waves of life[432]. I wish both her and you
very many years, and very happy.

'For some months past I have been so withdrawn from the world, that I can send you nothing
particular. All your friends, however, are well, and will be glad of your return to London.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Yours most affectionately,

'SAM.

      Yet still he fills affection's eye,
        Obscurely wise[435], and coarsely kind;
      Nor, letter'd arrogance[436], deny
        Thy praise to merit unrefin'd.

      When fainting Nature call'd for aid,
        And hov'ring Death prepar'd the blow,
      His vigorous remedy display'd
        The power of art without the show.

      In Misery's darkest caverns known,
        His ready help was ever nigh,
      Where hopeless Anguish pour'd his groan,
        And lonely want retir'd to die[437]. The Ministry is dissolved. I prayed with Francis and gave
thanks[441].'

It has been the subject of discussion, whether there are two distinct particulars mentioned
here? or that we are to understand the giving of thanks to be in consequence of the dissolution
of the Ministry? In support of the last of these conjectures may be urged his mean opinion
of that Ministry, which has frequently appeared in the course of this work[442]; and it is
strongly confirmed by what he said on the subject to Mr. Seward:--'I am glad the Ministry is
removed. Such a bunch of imbecility never disgraced a country[443]. If they sent a messenger
into the City to take up a printer, the messenger was taken up instead of the printer, and
committed by the sitting Alderman[444]. If they sent one army to the relief of another, the
first army was defeated and taken before the second arrived[445]. I will not say that what
they did was always wrong; but it was always done at a wrong time[446].'

'TO MRS. STRAHAN.

'DEAR MADAM,

'Mrs. Williams shewed me your kind letter. This little habitation is now but a melancholy place,
clouded with the gloom of disease and death. Of the four inmates, one has been suddenly snatched
away; two are oppressed by very afflictive and dangerous illness; and I tried yesterday to
gain some relief by a third bleeding, from a disorder which has for some time distressed me,
and I think myself to-day much better.

'I am glad, dear Madam, to hear that you are so far recovered as to go to Bath. Let me once
more entreat you to stay till your health is not only obtained, but confirmed. Your fortune
is such as that no moderate expence deserves your care; and you have a husband, who, I believe,
does not regard it. Stay, therefore, till you are quite well. I am, for my part, very much
deserted; but complaint is useless. I hope GOD will bless you, and I desire you to form the
same wish for me.

'I am, dear Madam,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Feb. 4, 1782.'

'To EDMOND MALONE, ESQ.

'SIR,

'I have for many weeks been so much out of order, that I have gone out only in a coach to Mrs.
Thrale's, where I can use all the freedom that sickness requires. Do not, therefore, take it
amiss, that I am not with you and Dr. Farmer. I hope hereafter to see you often.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Feb. 27, 1782.'

To THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'I hope I grow better, and shall soon be able to enjoy the kindness of my friends. I think
this wild adherence to Chatterton[447] more unaccountable than the obstinate defence of Ossian.
In Ossian there is a national pride, which may be forgiven, though it cannot be applauded.
In Chatterton there is nothing but the resolution to say again what has once been said.

'I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'March 7, 1782.'

These short letters shew the regard which Dr. Johnson entertained for Mr. Malone, who the more
he is known is the more highly valued. It is much to be regretted that Johnson was prevented
from sharing the elegant hospitality of that gentleman's table, at which he would in every
respect have been fully gratified. Mr. Malone, who has so ably succeeded him as an Editor of
Shakspeare, has, in his Preface, done great and just honour to Johnson's memory.

'TO MRS. LUCY PORTER, IN LICHFIELD.

'DEAR MADAM,

'I went away from Lichfield ill, and have had a troublesome time with my breath; for some weeks
I have been disordered by a cold, of which I could not get the violence abated, till I had
been let blood three times. I have not, however, been so bad but that I could have written,
and am sorry that I neglected it.

'My dwelling is but melancholy; both Williams, and Desmoulins, and myself, are very sickly:
Frank is not well; and poor Levett died in his bed the other day, by a sudden stroke; I suppose
not one minute passed between health and death; so uncertain are human things.

'Such is the appearance of the world about me; I hope your scenes are more cheerful. But whatever
befalls us, though it is wise to be serious, it is useless and foolish, and perhaps sinful,
to be gloomy. Let us, therefore, keep ourselves as easy as we can; though the loss of friends
will be felt, and poor Levett had been a faithful adherent for thirty years.

'Forgive me, my dear love, the omission of writing; I hope to mend that and my other faults.
Let me have your prayers.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Cobb, and Miss Adey, and Mr. Pearson, and the whole company of
my friends.

I am, my dear,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, March 2, 1782.'

TO THE SAME.

'DEAR MADAM,

'My last was but a dull letter, and I know not that this will be much more cheerful; I am,
however, willing to write, because you are desirous to hear from me.

'My disorder has now begun its ninth week, for it is not yet over. I was last Thursday blooded
for the fourth time, and have since found myself much relieved, but I am very tender and easily
hurt; so that since we parted I have had but little comfort, but I hope that the spring will
recover me; and that in the summer I shall see Lichfield again, for I will not delay my visit
another year to the end of autumn.

'I have, by advertising, found poor Mr. Levett's brothers in Yorkshire, who will take the little
he has left: it is but little, yet it will be welcome, for I believe they are of very low condition.

'To be sick, and to see nothing but sickness and death, is but a gloomy state; but I hope better
times, even in this world, will come, and whatever this world may withhold or give, we shall
be happy in a better state. Pray for me, my dear Lucy.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Cobb, and Miss Adey, and my old friend Hetty Baily, and to all
the Lichfield ladies.

'I am, dear Madam,

'Yours, affectionately,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Bolt-court, Fleet-street,

March 19, 1782.'

On the day on which this letter was written, he thus feelingly mentions his respected friend
and physician, Dr. Lawrence:--

'Poor Lawrence has almost lost the sense of hearing; and I have lost the conversation of a
learned, intelligent, and communicative companion, and a friend whom long familiarity has much
endeared. Lawrence is one of the best men whom I have known.--Nostrum omnium miserere Deus[448].'

It was Dr. Johnson's custom when he wrote to Dr. Lawrence concerning his own health, to use
the Latin language[449]. I have been favoured by Miss Lawrence with one of these letters as
a specimen:--

'T. LAWRENCIO, Medico, S.

'NOVUM frigus, nova tussis, nova spirandi difficultas, novam sanguinis missionem suadent, quam
tamen te inconsulto nolim fieri. Ad te venire vix possum, nec est cur ad me venias. Licere
vel non licere uno verbo dicendum est; catera mihi et Holdero[450] reliqueris. Si per te licet,
imperatur[451] nuncio Holderum ad me deducere.

'Maiis Calendis, 1782.

'Postquàm tu discesseris, quò me vertam[452]?'

TO CAPTAIN LANGTON[453], IN ROCHESTER.

'DEAR SIR,

'It is now long since we saw one another; and whatever has been the reason neither you have
written to me, nor I to you. To let friendship die away by negligence and silence, is certainly
not wise. It is voluntarily to throw away one of the greatest comforts of this weary pilgrimage,
of which when it is, as it must be, taken finally away, he that travels on alone, will wonder
how his esteem could be so little. Do not forget me; you see that I do not forget you. It is
pleasing in the silence of solitude to think, that there is one at least, however distant,
of whose benevolence there is little doubt, and whom there is yet hope of seeing again[454].

'Of my life, from the time we parted, the history is mournful. The spring of last year deprived
me of Thrale, a man whose eye for fifteen years had scarcely been turned upon me but with respect
or tenderness[455]; for such another friend, the general course of human things will not suffer
man to hope. I passed the summer at Streatham, but there was no Thrale; and having idled away
the summer with a weakly body and neglected mind, I made a journey to Staffordshire on the
edge of winter. The season was dreary, I was sickly, and found the friends sickly whom I went
to see. After a sorrowful sojourn, I returned to a habitation possessed for the present by
two sick women, where my dear old friend, Mr. Levett, to whom as he used to tell me, I owe
your acquaintance[456], died a few weeks ago, suddenly in his bed; there passed not, I believe,
a minute between health and death. At night, as at Mrs. Thrale's I was musing in my chamber,
I thought with uncommon earnestness, that however I might alter my mode of life, or whithersoever
I might remove[457], I would endeavour to retain Levett about me; in the morning my servant
brought me word that Levett was called to another state, a state for which, I think, he was
not unprepared, for he was very useful to the poor. How much soever I valued him, I now wish
that I had valued him more[458].

'I have myself been ill more than eight weeks of a disorder, from which at the expence of about
fifty ounces of blood, I hope I am now recovering.

'You, dear Sir, have, I hope, a more cheerful scene; you see George fond of his book, and the
pretty misses airy and lively, with my own little Jenny[459] equal to the best[460]: and in
whatever can contribute to your quiet or pleasure, you have Lady Rothes ready to concur. May
whatever you enjoy of good be encreased, and whatever you suffer of evil be diminished.

'DEAR SIR,

'I hope I do not very grossly flatter myself to imagine that you and dear Mrs. Careless[462]
will be glad to hear some account of me. I performed the journey to London with very little
inconvenience, and came safe to my habitation, where I found nothing but ill health, and, of
consequence, very little cheerfulness. I then went to visit a little way into the country,
where I got a complaint by a cold which has hung eight weeks upon me, and from which I am,
at the expence of fifty ounces of blood, not yet free. I am afraid I must once more owe my
recovery to warm weather, which seems to make no advances towards us.

'Such is my health, which will, I hope, soon grow better. In other respects I have no reason
to complain. I know not that I have written any thing more generally commended than the Lives
of the Poets; and have found the world willing enough to caress me, if my health had invited
me to be in much company; but this season I have been almost wholly employed in nursing myself.

'When summer comes I hope to see you again, and will not put off my visit to the end of the
year. I have lived so long in London, that I did not remember the difference of seasons.

'Your health, when I saw you, was much improved. You will be prudent enough not to put it in
danger. I hope, when we meet again, we shall all congratulate each other upon fair prospects
of longer life; though what are the pleasures of the longest life, when placed in comparison
with a happy death?

'I am, dear Sir,

'Yours most affectionately,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, March 21, 1782.'

To THE SAME.

[Without a date, but supposed to be about this time.][463]

'DEAR SIR,

'That you and dear Mrs. Careless should have care or curiosity about my health, gives me that
pleasure which every man feels from finding himself not forgotten. In age we feel again that
love of our native place and our early friends, which in the bustle or amusements of middle
life were overborne and suspended. You and I should now naturally cling to one another: we
have outlived most of those who could pretend to rival us in each other's kindness. In our
walk through life we have dropped our companions, and are now to pick up such as chance may
offer us, or to travel on alone[464]. You, indeed, have a sister, with whom you can divide
the day: I have no natural friend left; but Providence has been pleased to preserve me from
neglect; I have not wanted such alleviations of life as friendship could supply. My disorders
are, however, still sufficiently oppressive.

'I think of seeing Staffordshire again this autumn, and intend to find my way through Birmingham,
where I hope to see you and dear Mrs. Careless well. I am Sir,

'Your affectionate friend,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

I wrote to him at different dates; regretted that I could not come to London this spring, but
hoped we should meet somewhere in the summer; mentioned the state of my affairs, and suggested
hopes of some preferment; informed him, that as The Beauties of Johnson had been published
in London, some obscure scribbler had published at Edinburgh what he called The deformities
of Johnson.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'The pleasure which we used to receive from each other on Good-Friday and Easter-day[466],
we must be this year content to miss. Let us, however, pray for each other, and hope to see
one another yet from time to time with mutual delight. My disorder has been a cold, which impeded
the organs of respiration, and kept me many weeks in a state of great uneasiness; but by repeated
phlebotomy it is now relieved; and next to the recovery of Mrs. Boswell, I flatter myself,
that you will rejoice at mine.

'What we shall do in the summer it is yet too early to consider. You want to know what you
shall do now; I do not think this time of bustle and confusion[467] likely to produce any advantage
to you. Every man has those to reward and gratify who have contributed to his advancement.
To come hither with such expectations at the expence of borrowed money, which, I find, you
know not where to borrow, can hardly be considered as prudent. I am sorry to find, what your
solicitation seems to imply, that you have already gone the whole length of your credit. This
is to set the quiet of your whole life at hazard. If you anticipate your inheritance, you can
at last inherit nothing; all that you receive must pay for the past. You must get a place,
or pine in penury, with the empty name of a great estate. Poverty, my dear friend, is so great
an evil, and pregnant with so much temptation, and so much misery, that I cannot but earnestly
enjoin you to avoid it[468]. Live on what you have; live if you can on less; do not borrow
either for vanity or pleasure; the vanity will end in shame, and the pleasure in regret: stay
therefore at home, till you have saved money for your journey hither.

The Beauties of Johnson are said to have got money to the collector; if the Deformities have
the same success, I shall be still a more extensive benefactor.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell, who is, I hope, reconciled to me; and to the young people
whom I never have offended.

'You never told me the success of your plea against the Solicitors[469].

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, March 28, 1782.'

Notwithstanding his afflicted state of body[470] and mind this year, the following correspondence
affords a proof not only of his benevolence and conscientious readiness to relieve a good man
from errour, but by his cloathing one of the sentiments in his Rambler in different language,
not inferiour to that of the original, shews his extraordinary command of clear and forcible
expression.

A clergyman at Bath wrote to him, that in The Morning Chronicle, a passage in The Beauties
of Johnson[471], article DEATH, had been pointed out as supposed by some readers to recommend
suicide, the words being, 'To die is the fate of man; but to die with lingering anguish is
generally his folly;' and respectfully suggesting to him, that such an erroneous notion of
any sentence in the writings of an acknowledged friend of religion and virtue, should not pass
uncontradicted.

Johnson thus answered the clergyman's letter:--

     To THE REVEREND MR. ----, AT BATH.

'SIR,

'Being now[472] in the country in a state of recovery, as I hope, from a very oppressive disorder,
I cannot neglect the acknowledgement of your Christian letter. The book called The Beauties
of Johnson is the production of I know not whom: I never saw it but by casual inspection, and
considered myself as utterly disengaged from its consequences. Of the passage you mention,
I remember some notice in some paper; but knowing that it must be misrepresented, I thought
of it no more, nor do I know where to find it in my own books. I am accustomed to think little
of newspapers; but an opinion so weighty and serious as yours has determined me to do, what
I should, without your seasonable admonition, have omitted; and I will direct my thought to
be shewn in its true state[473]. If I could find the passage, I would direct you to it. I suppose
the tenour is this:--'Acute diseases are the immediate and inevitable strokes of Heaven; but
of them the pain is short, and the conclusion speedy; chronical disorders, by which we are
suspended in tedious torture between life and death, are commonly the effect of our own misconduct
and intemperance. To die, &c.'--This, Sir, you see is all true and all blameless. I hope, some
time in the next week, to have all rectified. My health has been lately much shaken: if you
favour me with any answer, it will be a comfort to me to know that I have your prayers.

'I am, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'May 15, 1782.'

This letter, as might be expected, had its full effect, and the clergyman acknowledged it in
grateful and pious terms[474].

The following letters require no extracts from mine to introduce them:--

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'The earnestness and tenderness of your letter is such, that I cannot think myself shewing
it more respect than it claims by sitting down to answer it the day on which I received it.

'This year has afflicted me with a very irksome and severe disorder. My respiration has been
much impeded, and much blood has been taken away. I am now harrassed by a catarrhous cough,
from which my purpose is to seek relief by change of air; and I am, therefore, preparing to
go to Oxford[475].

'Whether I did right in dissuading you from coming to London this spring, I will not determine.
You have not lost much by missing my company; I have scarcely been well for a single week.
I might have received comfort from your kindness; but you would have seen me afflicted, and,
perhaps, found me peevish. Whatever might have been your pleasure or mine, I know not how I
could have honestly advised you to come hither with borrowed money. Do not accustom yourself
to consider debt only as an inconvenience; you will find it a calamity. Poverty takes away
so many means of doing good, and produces so much inability to resist evil, both natural and
moral, that it is by all virtuous means to be avoided. Consider a man whose fortune is very
narrow; whatever be his rank by birth, or whatever his reputation by intellectual excellence,
what good can he do? or what evil can he prevent? That he cannot help the needy is evident;
he has nothing to spare. But, perhaps, his advice or admonition may be useful. His poverty
will destroy his influence: many more can find that he is poor, than that he is wise; and few
will reverence the understanding that is of so little advantage to its owner. I say nothing
of the personal wretched-ness of a debtor, which, however, has passed into a proverb[476].
Of riches, it is not necessary to write the praise[477]. Let it, however, be remembered, that
he who has money to spare, has it always in his power to benefit others; and of such power
a good man must always be desirous.

'I am pleased with your account of Easter[478]. We shall meet, I hope in Autumn, both well
and both cheerful; and part each the better for the other's company.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell, and to the young charmers.

'I am, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'London, June 3, 1782.'

'To MR. PERKINS[479].

'DEAR SIR,

I am much pleased that you are going a very long journey, which may by proper conduct restore
your health and prolong your life.

'Observe these rules:

1. Turn all care out of your head as soon as you mount the chaise.

2. Do not think about frugality; your health is worth more than it can cost.

3. Do not continue any day's journey to fatigue.

4. Take now and then a day's rest.

5. Get a smart sea-sickness, if you can.

6. Cast away all anxiety, and keep your mind easy.

'This last direction is the principal; with an unquiet mind, neither exercise, nor diet, nor
physick, can be of much use.

'I wish you, dear Sir, a prosperous journey, and a happy recovery.

'DEAR SIR,

'Being uncertain whether I should have any call this autumn into the country, I did not immediately
answer your kind letter. I have no call; but if you desire to meet me at Ashbourne, I believe
I can come thither; if you had rather come to London, I can stay at Streatham; take your choice.

'This year has been very heavy. From the middle of January to the middle of June I was battered
by one disorder after another! I am now very much recovered, and hope still to be better. What
happiness it is that Mrs. Boswell has escaped.

'My Lives are reprinting, and I have forgotten the authour of Gray's character[480]: write
immediately, and it may be perhaps yet inserted.

'Of London or Ashbourne you have your free choice; at any place I shall be glad to see you.
I am, dear Sir,

'Yours &c.

'SAM.

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have struggled through this year with so much infirmity of body, and such strong impressions
of the fragility of life, that death, whenever it appears, fills me with melancholy; and I
cannot hear without emotion, of the removal of any one, whom I have known, into another state.

'Your father's death had every circumstance that could enable you to bear it; it was at a mature
age, and it was expected; and as his general life had been pious, his thoughts had doubtless
for many years past been turned upon eternity. That you did not find him sensible must doubtless
grieve you; his disposition towards you was undoubtedly that of a kind, though not of a fond
father. Kindness, at least actual, is in our power, but fondness is not; and if by negligence
or imprudence you had extinguished his fondness, he could not at will rekindle it. Nothing
then remained between you but mutual forgiveness of each other's faults, and mutual desire
of each other's happiness.

'I shall long to know his final disposition of his fortune[481].

'You, dear Sir, have now a new station, and have therefore new cares, and new employments.
Life, as Cowley seems to say, ought to resemble a well-ordered poem[482]; of which one rule
generally received is, that the exordium should be simple, and should promise little. Begin
your new course of life with the least show, and the least expence possible; you may at pleasure
encrease both, but you cannot easily diminish them. Do not think your estate your own, while
any man can call upon you for money which you cannot pay; therefore, begin with timorous parsimony.
Let it be your first care not to be in any man's debt.

'When the thoughts are extended to a future state, the present life seems hardly worthy of
all those principles of conduct, and maxims of prudence, which one generation of men has transmitted
to another; but upon a closer view, when it is perceived how much evil is produced, and how
much good is impeded by embarrassment and distress, and how little room the expedients of poverty
leave for the exercise of virtue, it grows manifest that the boundless importance of the next
life enforces some attention to the interests of this.

'Be kind to the old servants, and secure the kindness of the agents and factors; do not disgust
them by asperity, or unwelcome gaiety, or apparent suspicion. From them you must learn the
real state of your affairs, the characters of your tenants, and the value of your lands[483].

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell; I think her expectations from air and exercise are the
best that she can form. I hope she will live long and happily.

'I forget whether I told you that Rasay[484] has been here; we dined cheerfully together. I
entertained lately a young gentleman from Corrichatachin[485].

'I received your letters only this morning. I am, dear Sir,

'Yours &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, Sept. 7, 1782.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Having passed almost this whole year in a succession of disorders, I went in October to Brighthelmston,
whither I came in a state of so much weakness, that I rested four times in walking between
the inn and the lodging. By physick and abstinence I grew better, and am now reasonably easy,
though at a great distance from health[487]. I am afraid, however, that health begins, after
seventy, and long before, to have a meaning different from that which it had at thirty. But
it is culpable to murmur at the established order of the creation, as it is vain to oppose
it. He that lives must grow old; and he that would rather grow old than die, has GOD to thank
for the infirmities of old age[488].

'At your long silence I am rather angry. You do not, since now you are the head of your house,
think it worth your while to try whether you or your friend can live longer without writing[489],
nor suspect that after so many years of friendship, that when I do not write to you, I forget
you. Put all such useless jealousies out of your head, and disdain to regulate your own practice
by the practice of another, or by any other principle than the desire of doing right.

'Your oeconomy, I suppose, begins now to be settled; your expences are adjusted to your revenue,
and all your people in their proper places. Resolve not to be poor: whatever you have, spend
less. Poverty is a great enemy to human happiness; it certainly destroys liberty, and it makes
some virtues impracticable, and others extremely difficult.

'Let me know the history of your life, since your accession to your estate. How many houses,
how many cows, how much land in your own hand, and what bargains you make with your tenants.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Of my Lives of the Poets, they have printed a new edition in octavo, I hear, of three thousand.
Did I give a set to Lord Hailes? If I did not, I will do it out of these. What did you make
of all your copy[490]?

'Mrs. Thrale and the three Misses[491] are now for the winter in Argyll-street.

'Edinburgh, Dec. 20, 1782.

'DEAR SIR,

'I was made happy by your kind letter, which gave us the agreeable hopes of seeing you in Scotland
again.

'I am much flattered by the concern you are pleased to take in my recovery. I am better, and
hope to have it in my power to convince you by my attention of how much consequence I esteem
your health to the world and to myself. In one he says, 'I have looked into your Anecdotes,
and you will hardly thank a lover of literary history for telling you, that he has been much
informed and gratified. I wish you would add your own discoveries and intelligence to those
of Dr. Rawlinson, and undertake the Supplement to Wood[501]'. Think of it.' In the other, 'I
wish, Sir, you could obtain some fuller information of Jortin[502], Markland[503], and Thirlby[504].
JOHNSON.'

'Brighthelmston,

Nov. 14, 1782.'

The Reverend Mr. Wilson having dedicated to him his Archaeological Dictionary[506], that mark
of respect was thus acknowledged:--

'TO THE REVEREND MR. WILSON, CLITHEROE, LANCASHIRE.

'REVEREND SIR,

'That I have long omitted to return you thanks for the honour conferred upon me by your Dedication,
I entreat you with great earnestness not to consider as more faulty than it is. A very importunate
and oppressive disorder has for some time debarred me from the pleasures, and obstructed me
in the duties of life. The esteem and kindness of wise and good men is one of the last pleasures
which I can be content to lose; and gratitude to those from whom this pleasure is received,
is a duty of which I hope never to be reproached with the final neglect. I therefore now return
you thanks for the notice which I have received from you, and which I consider as giving to
my name not only more bulk, but more weight; not only as extending its superficies, but as
increasing its value. Your book was evidently wanted, and will, I hope, find its way into the
school, to which, however, I do not mean to confine it; for no man has so much skill in ancient
rites and practices as not to want it. As I suppose myself to owe part of your kindness to
my excellent friend, Dr. Patten, he has likewise a just claim to my acknowledgements, which
I hope you, Sir, will transmit. There will soon appear a new edition of my Poetical Biography;
if you will accept of a copy to keep me in your mind, be pleased to let me know how it may
be conveniently conveyed to you. The present is small, but it is given with good will by, Reverend
Sir,

'Your most, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'December 31, 1782[507].'

1783: AETAT.

Having given Dr. Johnson a full account of what I was doing at Auchinleck, and particularly
mentioned what I knew would please him,--my having brought an old man of eighty-eight from
a lonely cottage to a comfortable habitation within my enclosures, where he had good neighbours
near to him,--I received an answer in February, of which I extract what follows:--

'I am delighted with your account of your activity at Auchinleck, and wish the old gentleman,
whom you have so kindly removed, may live long to promote your prosperity by his prayers. You
have now a new character and new duties: think on them and practise them.

'Make an impartial estimate of your revenue, and whatever it is, live upon less. Resolve never
to be poor. Frugality is not only the basis of quiet, but of beneficence. No man can help others
that wants help himself; we must have enough before we have to spare.

'I am glad to find that Mrs. Boswell grows well; and hope that to keep her well, no care nor
caution will be omitted. May you long live happily together.

'When you come hither, pray bring with you Baxter's Anacreon[509]. Nay, there is another disadvantage
belonging to land, compared with money. A man is not so much afraid of being a hard creditor,
as of being a hard landlord.' BOSWELL. 'Because there is a sort of kindly connection between
a landlord and his tenants.' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; many landlords with us never see their tenants.

He thus curiously characterised one of our old acquaintance: '----[518] is a good man, Sir;
but he is a vain man and a liar. He, however, only tells lies of vanity; of victories, for
instance, in conversation, which never happened.' This alluded to a story which I had repeated
from that gentleman, to entertain Johnson with its wild bravado: 'This Johnson, Sir, (said
he,) whom you are all afraid of will shrink, if you come close to him in argument and roar
as loud as he. He once maintained the paradox, that there is no beauty but in utility[519].
"Sir, (said I,) what say you to the peacock's tail, which is one of the most beautiful objects
in nature, but would have as much utility if its feathers were all of one colour." He felt
what I thus produced, and had recourse to his usual expedient, ridicule; exclaiming, "A peacock
has a tail, and a fox has a tail;" and then he burst out into a laugh. "Well, Sir, (said I,
with a strong voice, looking him full in the face,) you have unkennelled your fox; pursue him
if you dare." He had not a word to say, Sir.' Johnson told me, that this was a fiction from
beginning to end[520]. It was, however, probably owing to his having had in his view the worst
part of the Scottish nation, the needy adventurers, many of whom he thought were advanced above
their merits by means which he did not approve. Had he in his early life been in Scotland,
and seen the worthy, sensible, independent gentlemen, who live rationally and hospitably at
home, he never could have entertained such unfavourable and unjust notions of his fellow-subjects.
And accordingly we find, that when he did visit Scotland, in the latter period of his life,
he was fully sensible of all that it deserved, as I have already pointed out, when speaking
of his Journey to the Western Islands.[524]

Next day, Saturday, March 22, I found him still at Mrs. Thrale's, but he told me that he was
to go to his own house in the afternoon[525]. He was better, but I perceived he was but an
unruly patient, for Sir Lucas Pepys, who visited him, while I was with him said, 'If you were
tractable, Sir, I should prescribe for you.'

I related to him a remark which a respectable friend had made to me, upon the then state of
Government, when those who had been long in opposition had attained to power, as it was supposed,
against the inclination of the Sovereign[526]. 'You need not be uneasy (said this gentleman)
about the King. He laughs at them all; he plays them one against another.' JOHNSON. 'Don't
think so, Sir. The King is as much oppressed as a man can be. The General said he was busy
reading the writers of the middle age. Johnson said they were very curious. OGLETHORPE. 'The
House of Commons has usurped the power of the nation's money, and used it tyrannically. Government
is now carried on by corrupt influence, instead of the inherent right in the King.' JOHNSON.
'Sir, the want of inherent right in the King occasions all this disturbance. What we did at
the Revolution was necessary: but it broke our constitution[527].' OGLETHORPE. 'But surely,
Sir, you will allow that there are men of merit at the bar, who never get practice.' JOHNSON.
'Sir, you are sure that practice is got from an opinion that the person employed deserves it
best; so that if a man of merit at the bar does not get practice, it is from errour, not from
injustice. He is not neglected. A horse that is brought to market may not be bought, though
he is a very good horse: but that is from ignorance, not from intention[534].'

There was in this discourse much novelty, ingenuity, and discrimination, such as is seldom
to be found. Yet I cannot help thinking that men of merit, who have no success in life, may
be forgiven for lamenting, if they are not allowed to complain. They may consider it as hard
that their merit should not have its suitable distinction. Though there is no intentional injustice
towards them on the part of the world, their merit not having been perceived, they may yet
repine against fortune, or fate, or by whatever name they choose to call the supposed mythological
power of Destiny. It has, however, occurred to me, as a consolatory thought, that men of merit
should consider thus:-How much harder would it be if the same persons had both all the merit
and all the prosperity. Would not this be a miserable distribution for the poor dunces? Would
men of merit exchange their intellectual superiority, and the enjoyments arising from it, for
external distinction and the pleasures of wealth? If they would not, let them not envy others,
who are poor where they are rich, a compensation which is made to them. He was somewhat fretful
from his illness. Lord Orrery[539] was not dignified: Lord Chesterfield was, but he was insolent[540].
Lord ----[541] is a man of coarse manners, but a man of abilities and information. I don't
say he is a man I would set at the head of a nation, though perhaps he may be as good as the
next Prime Minister that comes; but he is a man to be at the head of a Club; I don't say our
CLUB; for there's no such Club.' BOSWELL. 'But, Sir, was he not once a factious man?' JOHNSON.
'O yes, Sir; as factious a fellow as could be found: one who was for sinking us all into the
mob[542].' BOSWELL. 'How then, Sir, did he get into favour with the King?' JOHNSON. He mentioned
a respectable gentleman, who became extremely penurious near the close of his life. Johnson
said there must have been a degree of madness about him. 'Not at all, Sir, (said Dr. Brocklesby,)
his judgement was entire.' Unluckily, however, he mentioned that although he had a fortune
of twenty-seven thousand pounds, he denied himself many comforts, from an apprehension that
he could not afford them. JOHNSON. 'Keeping accounts, Sir, is of no use when a man is spending
his own money, and has nobody to whom he is to account. You won't eat less beef to-day, because
you have written down what it cost yesterday.' I mentioned another lady who thought as he did,
so that her husband could not get her to keep an account of the expence of the family, as she
thought it enough that she never exceeded the sum allowed her. JOHNSON. 'Sir, it is fit she
should keep an account, because her husband wishes it; but I do not see its use[552].' I maintained
that keeping an account has this advantage, that it satisfies a man that his money has not
been lost or stolen, which he might sometimes be apt to imagine, were there no written state
of his expence; and beside, a calculation of oeconomy so as not to exceed one's income, cannot
be made without a view of the different articles in figures, that one may see how to retrench
in some particulars less necessary than others. This he did not attempt to answer. He could
not do it; but many years afterwards met with it by chance in Johannes Baptista Mantuanus[571].

I am very sorry that I did not take a note of an eloquent argument in which he maintained that
the situation of Prince of Wales was the happiest of any person's in the kingdom, even beyond
that of the Sovereign. I recollect only--the enjoyment of hope[572],--the high superiority
of rank, without the anxious cares of government,--and a great degree of power, both from natural
influence wisely used, and from the sanguine expectations of those who look forward to the
chance of future favour.

Having observed the vain ostentatious importance of many people in quoting the authority of
Dukes and Lords, as having been in their company, he said, he went to the other extreme, and
did not mention his authority when he should have done it, had it not been that of a Duke or
a Lord[575]. 'You know, Sir, (said he,) that no Scotchman publishes a book, or has a play brought
upon the stage, but there are five hundred people ready to applaud him.[583]'

He gave much praise to his friend, Dr. Burney's elegant and entertaining travels[584], and
told Mr. Seward that he had them in his eye, when writing his Journey to the Western Islands
of Scotland.

He disapproved much of mingling real facts with fiction. On this account he censured a book
entitled Love and Madness[586]. Johnson was much pleased with it, and said, 'It wants no addition
nor correction, but a few lines of introduction;' which he furnished, and Sir William adopted[590].
Magistrates both in London, and elsewhere, have, I am afraid, in this had too much regard to
their own ease[594].

Of Dr. Hurd, Bishop of Worcester, Johnson said to a friend, 'Hurd, Sir, is one of a set of
men who account for every thing systematically; for instance, it has been a fashion to wear
scarlet breeches; these men would tell you, that according to causes and effects, no other
wear could at that time have been chosen.' He, however, said of him at another time to the
same gentleman, 'Hurd, Sir, is a man whose acquaintance is a valuable acquisition.'

That learned and ingenious Prelate[595] it is well known published at one period of his life
Moral and Political Dialogues, with a woefully whiggish cast. Afterwards, his Lordship having
thought better, came to see his errour, and republished the work with a more constitutional
spirit. Johnson, however, was unwilling to allow him full credit for his political conversion.

Maurice Morgann, Esq., authour of the very ingenious Essay on the character of Falstaff[601],
being a particular friend of his Lordship, had once an opportunity of entertaining Johnson
for a day or two at Wickham, when its Lord was absent, and by him I have been favoured with
two anecdotes.

One is not a little to the credit of Johnson's candour. Mr. Morgann and he had a dispute pretty
late at night, in which Johnson would not give up, though he had the wrong side, and in short,
both kept the field. You put me in mind of a man who was standing in the kitchen of an inn
with his back to the fire, and thus accosted the person next him, "Do you know, Sir, who I
am?" "No, Sir, (said the other,) I have not that advantage." "Sir, (said he,) I am the great
TWALMLEY, who invented the New Floodgate Iron[605]."' The Bishop of Killaloe, on my repeating
the story to him, defended Twalmley, by observing, that he was entitled to the epithet of great;
for Virgil in his groupe of worthies in the Elysian fields--

     Hic manus ob patriam pugnando vulnera passi, &c.

mentions

     Inventas aut qui vitam excoluere per artes[606]. I have recovered one which he made on Dr. Barnard, now
Lord Bishop of Killaloe; who has been pleased for many years to treat me
with so much intimacy and social ease, that I may presume to call him
not only my Right Reverend, but my very dear Friend. I therefore with
peculiar pleasure give to the world a just and elegant compliment thus
paid to his Lordship by Johnson[609].

CHARADE.

'My first[610] shuts out thieves from your house or your room,
 My second[611] expresses a Syrian perfume.
 My whole[612] is a man in whose converse is shar'd,
 The strength of a Bar and the sweetness of Nard.'

Johnson asked Richard Owen Cambridge, Esq., if he had read the Spanish translation of Sallust,
said to be written by a Prince of Spain[613], with the assistance of his tutor, who is professedly
the authour of a treatise annexed, on the Phoenician language.

Mr. Cambridge commended the work, particularly as he thought the Translator understood his
authour better than is commonly the case with Translators: but said, he was disappointed in
the purpose for which he borrowed the book; to see whether a Spaniard could be better furnished
with inscriptions from monuments, coins, or other antiquities which he might more probably
find on a coast, so immediately opposite to Carthage, than the Antiquaries of any other countries.
JOHNSON. 'I am very sorry you was[614] not gratified in your expectations.' CAMBRIDGE. 'The
language would have been of little use, as there is no history existing in that tongue to balance
the partial accounts which the Roman writers have left us.' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir. They have not
been partial, they have told their own story, without shame or regard to equitable treatment
of their injured enemy; they had no compunction, no feeling for a Carthaginian. Why, Sir, they
would never have borne Virgil's description of Aeneas's treatment of Dido, if she had not been
a Carthaginian[615].'

I gratefully acknowledge this and other communications from Mr. Cambridge, whom, if a beautiful
villa on the banks of the Thames, a few miles distant from London, a numerous and excellent
library, which he accurately knows and reads, a choice collection of pictures, which he understands
and relishes, an easy fortune, an amiable family, an extensive circle of friends and acquaintance,
distinguished by rank, fashion and genius, a literary fame, various, elegant and still increasing,
colloquial talents rarely to be found[616], and with all these means of happiness, enjoying,
when well advanced in years, health and vigour of body, serenity and animation of mind, do
not entitle to be addressed fortunate senex![617] I know not to whom, in any age, that expression
could with propriety have been used. Long may he live to hear and to feel it!

His respect for the Hierarchy, and particularly the Dignitaries of the Church, has been more
than once exhibited in the course of this work[619]. Mr. Seward saw him presented to the Archbishop
of York[620], and described his Bow to an ARCH-BISHOP, as such a studied elaboration of homage,
such an extension of limb, such a flexion of body, as have seldom or ever been equalled.

I cannot help mentioning with much regret, that by my own negligence I lost an opportunity
of having the history of my family from its founder Thomas Boswell, in 1504, recorded and illustrated
by Johnson's pen. Such was his goodness to me, that when I presumed to solicit him for so great
a favour, he was pleased to say, 'Let me have all the materials you can collect, and I will
do it both in Latin and English; then let it be printed and copies of it be deposited in various
places for security and preservation.' I can now only do the best I can to make up for this
loss, keeping my great Master steadily in view. Family histories, like the imagines majorum
of the Ancients, excite to virtue; and I wish that they who really have blood, would be more
careful to trace and ascertain its course. Some have affected to laugh at the history of the
house of Yvery[621]: it would be well if many others would transmit their pedigrees to posterity,
with the same accuracy and generous zeal with which the Noble Lord who compiled that work has
honoured and perpetuated his ancestry.

BOSWELL. 'This has been a very factious reign, owing to the too great indulgence of Government.'
JOHNSON. 'I think so, Sir. What at first was lenity, grew timidity[627]. Yet this is reasoning
à posteriori, and may not be just. Supposing a few had at first been punished, I believe faction
would have been crushed; but it might have been said, that it was a sanguinary reign. A man
cannot tell à priori what will be best for Government to do. This reign has been very unfortunate.
We have had an unsuccessful war; but that does not prove that we have been ill governed. One
side or other must prevail in war, as one or other must win at play. When we beat Louis we
were not better governed; nor were the French better governed when Louis beat us.'

On Saturday, April 12, I visited him, in company with Mr. Windham, of Norfolk, whom, though
a Whig, he highly valued. One of the best things he ever said was to this gentleman; who, before
he set out for Ireland as Secretary to Lord Northington, when Lord Lieutenant, expressed to
the Sage some modest and virtuous doubts, whether he could bring himself to practise those
arts which it is supposed a person in that situation has occasion to employ. 'Don't be afraid,
Sir, (said Johnson, with a pleasant smile,) you will soon make a very pretty rascal[628].

He talked to-day a good deal of the wonderful extent and variety of London, and observed, that
men of curious enquiry might see in it such modes of life as very few could even imagine. He
in particular recommended to us to explore Wapping, which we resolved to do[629].

Mr. Lowe, the painter, who was with him, was very much distressed that a large picture which
he had painted was refused to be received into the Exhibition of the Royal Academy. Mrs. Thrale
knew Johnson's character so superficially, as to represent him as unwilling to do small acts
of benevolence; and mentions in particular, that he would hardly take the trouble to write
a letter in favour of his friends[630]. The truth, however, is, that he was remarkable, in
an extraordinary degree, for what she denies to him; and, above all, for this very sort of
kindness, writing letters for those to whom his solicitations might be of service. He now gave
Mr. Lowe the following, of which I was diligent enough, with his permission, to take copies
at the next coffee-house, while Mr. Windham was so good as to stay by me.

TO SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

'SIR,

'Mr. Lowe considers himself as cut off from all credit and all hope, by the rejection of his
picture from the Exhibition. Upon this work he has exhausted all his powers, and suspended
all his expectations: and, certainly, to be refused an opportunity of taking the opinion of
the publick, is in itself a very great hardship. It is to be condemned without a trial.

If you could procure the revocation of this incapacitating edict, you would deliver an unhappy
man from great affliction. The Council has sometimes reversed its own determination; and I
hope, that by your interposition this luckless picture may be got admitted. I am, &c.

SAM. JOHNSON.

April 12, 1783.

To MR. BARRY.

SIR,

Mr. Lowe's exclusion from the exhibition gives him more trouble than you and the other gentlemen
of the Council could imagine or intend. He considers disgrace and ruin as the inevitable consequence
of your determination.

He says, that some pictures have been received after rejection; and if there be any such precedent,
I earnestly entreat that you will use your interest in his favour. Of his work I can say nothing;
I pretend not to judge of painting; and this picture I never saw: but I conceive it extremely
hard to shut out any man from the possibility of success; and therefore I repeat my request
that you will propose the re-consideration of Mr. Lowe's case; and if there be any among the
Council with whom my name can have any weight, be pleased to communicate to them the desire
of, Sir, Your most humble servant, SAM. JOHNSON. April 12, 1783.

Such intercession was too powerful to be resisted; and Mr. Lowe's performance was admitted
at Somerset Place[631]. The subject, as I recollect, was the Deluge, at that point of time
when the water was verging to the top of the last uncovered mountain. Near to the spot was
seen the last of the antediluvian race, exclusive of those who were saved in the ark of Noah.
This was one of those giants, then the inhabitants of the earth, who had still strength to
swim, and with one of his hands held aloft his infant child. Upon the small remaining dry spot
appeared a famished lion, ready to spring at the child and devour it. It brings every thing
to a certainty, which before floated in the mind indefinitely.' BOSWELL. 'But Omne ignotum
pro magnifico est[635]: one is sorry to have this diminished.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, you should not
allow yourself to be delighted with errour.' BOSWELL. 'Three a day seem but few.' JOHNSON.
'Nay, Sir, he who entertains three a day, does very liberally. And if there is a large family,
the poor entertain those three, for they eat what the poor would get: there must be superfluous
meat; it must be given to the poor, or thrown out.' BOSWELL. 'I observe in London, that the
poor go about and gather bones, which I understand are manufactured.' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir; they
boil them, and extract a grease from them for greasing wheels and other purposes. Of the best
pieces they make a mock ivory, which is used for hafts to knives, and various other things;
the coarser pieces they burn and pound, and sell the ashes.' BOSWELL. 'For what purpose, Sir?'
JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, for making a furnace for the chymists for melting iron. A paste made of
burnt bones will stand a stronger heat than any thing else. Consider, Sir; if you are to melt
iron, you cannot line your pot with brass, because it is softer than iron, and would melt sooner;
nor with iron, for though malleable iron is harder than cast iron, yet it would not do; but
a paste of burnt-bones will not melt.' BOSWELL. 'Do you know, Sir, I have discovered a manufacture
to a great extent, of what you only piddle at,--scraping and drying the peel of oranges[636].
At a place in Newgate-street, there is a prodigious quantity prepared, which they sell to the
distillers.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, I believe they make a higher thing out of them than a spirit; they
make what is called orange-butter, the oil of the orange inspissated, which they mix perhaps
with common pomatum, and make it fragrant.

Mr. Walker, the celebrated master of elocution[640], came in, and then we went up stairs into
the study. I asked him if he had taught many clergymen. JOHNSON. 'I hope not.' WALKER. 'I have
taught only one, and he is the best reader I ever heard, not by my teaching, but by his own
natural talents.' JOHNSON. 'Were he the best reader in the world, I would not have it told
that he was taught.' Here was one of his peculiar prejudices. Could it be any disadvantage
to the clergyman to have it known that he was taught an easy and graceful delivery? BOSWELL.
'Will you not allow, Sir, that a man may be taught to read well?' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, so far
as to read better than he might do without being taught, yes. Formerly it was supposed that
there was no difference in reading, but that one read as well as another.' BOSWELL. 'It is
wonderful to see old Sheridan as enthusiastick about oratory as ever[641],' WALKER. 'His enthusiasm
as to what oratory will do, may be too great: but he reads well.' JOHNSON. 'He reads well,
but he reads low[642]; and you know it is much easier to read low than to read high; for when
you read high, you are much more limited, your loudest note can be but one, and so the variety
is less in proportion to the loudness. Now some people have occasion to speak to an extensive
audience, and must speak loud to be heard.' WALKER. JOHNSON. 'Nay, Madam, you see nothing there
to hurt you. You no more think of madness by having windows that look to Bedlam, than you think
of death by having windows that look to a church-yard.' MRS. BURNEY. 'We may look to a church-yard,
Sir; for it is right that we should be kept in mind of death.' JOHNSON. 'Nay, Madam, if you
go to that, it is right that we should be kept in mind of madness, which is occasioned by too
much indulgence of imagination. I think a very moral use may be made of these new buildings:
I would have those who have heated imaginations live there, and take warning.' MRS. BURNEY.
'But, Sir, many of the poor people that are mad, have become so from disease, or from distressing
events.

I stated the character of a noble friend of mine, as a curious case for his opinion:--'He is
the most inexplicable man to me that I ever knew. Can you explain him, Sir? He is, I really
believe, noble-minded, generous, and princely. But his most intimate friends may be separated
from him for years, without his ever asking a question concerning them. He will meet them with
a formality, a coldness, a stately indifference; but when they come close to him, and fairly
engage him in conversation, they find him as easy, pleasant, and kind, as they could wish.
One then supposes that what is so agreeable will soon be renewed; but stay away from him for
half a year, and he will neither call on you, nor send to inquire about you.' JOHNSON. 'Why,
Sir, I cannot ascertain his character exactly, as I do not know him; but I should not like
to have such a man for my friend. He may love study, and wish not to be interrupted by his
friends; Amici fures temporis. He may be a frivolous man, and be so much occupied with petty
pursuits, that he may not want friends. There is in Camden's Remains, an epitaph upon a very
wicked man, who was killed by a fall from his horse, in which he is supposed to say,

     '"Between the stirrup and the ground,
       I mercy ask'd, I mercy found[652]."'

BOSWELL. 'Is not the expression in the Burial-service, "in the sure and certain hope of a blessed
resurrection[653]," too strong to be used indiscriminately, and, indeed, sometimes when those
over whose bodies it is said, have been notoriously profane?' JOHNSON. 'It is sure and certain
hope, Sir; not belief.' I did not insist further; but cannot help thinking that less positive
words would be more proper[654].

Talking of a man who was grown very fat, so as to be incommoded with corpulency; he said, 'He
eats too much, Sir.' BOSWELL. 'I don't know, Sir; you will see one man fat who eats moderately,
and another lean who eats a great deal.' JOHNSON. 'Nay, Sir, whatever may be the quantity that
a man eats, it is plain that if he is too fat, he has eaten more than he should have done.
One man may have a digestion that consumes food better than common; but it is certain that
solidity is encreased by putting something to it.' BOSWELL. 'But may not solids swell and be
distended?' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir, they may swell and be distended; but that is not fat.'

We talked of the accusation against a gentleman for supposed delinquencies in India[655]. JOHNSON.
'What foundation there is for accusation I know not, but they will not get at him. Where bad
actions are committed at so great a distance, a delinquent can obscure the evidence till the
scent becomes cold; there is a cloud between, which cannot be penetrated: therefore all distant
power is bad. I am clear that the best plan for the government of India is a despotick governour;
for if he be a good man, it is evidently the best government; and supposing him to be a bad
man, it is better to have one plunderer than many. A governour whose power is checked, lets
others plunder, that he himself may be allowed to plunder; but if despotick, he sees that the
more he lets others plunder, the less there will be for himself, so he restrains them; and
though he himself plunders, the country is a gainer, compared with being plundered by numbers.'

I mentioned the very liberal payment which had been received for reviewing; and, as evidence
of this, that it had been proved in a trial, that Dr. Shebbeare[656] had received six guineas
a sheet for that kind of literary labour. JOHNSON, 'Sir, he might get six guineas for a particular
sheet, but not communibus sheetibus[657].' BOSWELL. 'Pray, Sir, by a sheet of review is it
meant that it shall be all of the writer's own composition? or are extracts, made from the
book reviewed, deducted.' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir: it is a sheet, no matter of what.' BOSWELL. 'I
think that it is not reasonable.' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir, it is. A man will more easily write a
sheet all his own, than read an octavo volume to get extracts[658].' To one of Johnson's wonderful
fertility of mind I believe writing was really easier than reading and extracting; but with
ordinary men the case is very different. A great deal, indeed, will depend upon the care and
judgement with which the extracts are made. I can suppose the operation to be tedious and difficult:
but in many instances we must observe crude morsels cut out of books as if at random; and when
a large extract is made from one place, it surely may be done with very little trouble. One
however, I must acknowledge, might be led, from the practice of reviewers, to suppose that
they take a pleasure in original writing; for we often find, that instead of giving an accurate
account of what has been done by the authour whose work they are reviewing, which is surely
the proper business of a literary journal, they produce some plausible and ingenious conceits
of their own, upon the topicks which have been discussed[659]. 'My dear Sir, what a man must
you have been without religion! JOHNSON. 'Why, yes, Sir, he will introduce religious discourse
without seeing whether it will end in instruction and improvement, or produce some profane
jest. This piece was, I suppose, one of Mallet's first essays. It is preserved in his works,
with several variations.

'DEAR SIR,

'The gentleman who waits on you with this, is Mr. Cruikshanks[677], who wishes to succeed his
friend Dr. Hunter[678] as Professor of Anatomy in the Royal Academy. His qualifications are
very generally known, and it adds dignity to the institution that such men[679] are candidates.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. 'Sir, I have never slept an hour less, nor eat an ounce less meat[683]. JOHNSON. 'Don't
set up for what is called hospitality; it is a waste of time, and a waste of money; you are
eaten up, and not the more respected for your liberality. If your house be like an inn, nobody
cares for you. A man who stays a week with another, makes him a slave for a week.'[687] BOSWELL.
'But there are people, Sir, who make their houses a home to their guests, and are themselves
quite easy.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, they will go all the way from that motive.' A gentleman talked
of retiring. 'Never think of that,' said Johnson. The gentleman urged, 'I should then do no
ill.' JOHNSON. Nor no good either. Could there be, upon this aweful subject, such a thing as
balancing of accounts? Suppose a man who has led a good life for seven years, commits an act
of wickedness, and instantly dies; will his former good life have any effect in his favour?
JOHNSON. 'Sir, if a man has led a good life for seven years, and then is hurried by passion
to do what is wrong, and is suddenly carried off, depend upon it he will have the reward of
his seven years' good life; GOD will not take a catch of him. Upon this principle Richard Baxter
believes that a Suicide may be saved. "If, (says he) it should be objected that what I maintain
may encourage suicide, I answer, I am not to tell a lie to prevent it."' BOSWELL. 'But does
not the text say, "As the tree falls, so it must lie[699]?"' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir; as the tree
falls: but,--(after a little pause)--that is meant as to the general state of the tree, not
what is the effect of a sudden blast.' In short, he interpreted the expression as referring
to condition, not to position. The common notion, therefore, seems to be erroneous; and Shenstone's
witty remark on Divines trying to give the tree a jerk upon a death-bed, to make it lie favourably,
is not well founded[700].

I asked him what works of Richard Baxter's I should read.

'To THE RIGHT HONOURABLE WILLIAM WINDHAM.

Sir, The bringer of this letter is the father of Miss Philips[703], a singer, who comes to
try her voice on the stage at Dublin.

Mr. Philips is one of my old friends; and as I am of opinion that neither he nor his daughter
will do any thing that can disgrace their benefactors, I take the liberty of entreating you
to countenance and protect them so far as may be suitable to your station[704] and character;
and shall consider myself as obliged by any favourable notice which they shall have the honour
of receiving from you.

I am, Sir, Your most humble servant,

SAM JOHNSON. London, May 31, 1783.'

The following is another instance of his active benevolence:--

'To SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

DEAR SIR, I have sent you some of my god-son's[705] performances, of which I do not pretend
to form any opinion. When I took the liberty of mentioning him to you, I did not know what
I have since been told, that Mr. Moser[706] had admitted him among the Students of the Academy.
What more can be done for him I earnestly entreat you to consider; for I am very desirous that
he should derive some advantage from my connection with him. If you are inclined to see him,
I will bring him to wait on you, at any time that you shall be pleased to appoint.

I am, Sir, Your most humble servant,

SAM. JOHNSON. JOHNSON. June 17, 1783.'

'TO THE REVEREND DR. JOHN TAYLOR.

'DEAR SIR, It has pleased GOD, by a Paralytick stroke in the night, to deprive me of speech.

I am very desirous of Dr. Heberden's[708] assistance, as I think my case is not past remedy.
Let me see you as soon as it is possible. Bring Dr. Heberden with you, if you can; but come
yourself at all events. I am glad you are so well, when I am so dreadfully attacked.

I think that by a speedy application of stimulants much may be done. I question if a vomit,
vigorous and rough, would not rouse the organs of speech to action. As it is too early to send,
I will try to recollect what I can, that can be suspected to have brought on this dreadful
distress.

I have been accustomed to bleed frequently for an asthmatick complaint; but have forborne for
some time by Dr. Pepys's persuasion, who perceived my legs beginning to swell. I sometimes
alleviate a painful, or more properly an oppressive, constriction of my chest, by opiates;
and have lately taken opium frequently, but the last, or two last times, in smaller quantities.
My largest dose is three grains, and last night I took but two[709]. You will suggest these
things (and they are all that I can call to mind) to Dr. Heberden.

I am, &c. SAM. JOHNSON[710]. I am, &c.

SAM. JOHNSON.

DEAR SIR, Your anxiety about my health is very friendly, and very agreeable with your general
kindness. I have, indeed, had a very frightful blow. On the 17th of last month, about three
in the morning, as near as I can guess, I perceived myself almost totally deprived of speech.
I had no pain. My organs were so obstructed, that I could say no, but could scarcely say yes.
I wrote the necessary directions, for it pleased GOD to spare my hand, and sent for Dr. Heberden
and Dr. Brocklesby. Between the time in which I discovered my own disorder, and that in which
I sent for the doctors, I had, I believe, in spite of my surprize and solicitude, a little
sleep, and Nature began to renew its operations. They came, and gave the directions which the
disease required, and from that time I have been continually improving in articulation. I can
now speak, but the nerves are weak, and I cannot continue discourse long; but strength, I hope,
will return. The physicians consider me as cured. I was last Sunday at church. On Tuesday I
took an airing to Hampstead, and dined with THE CLUB[716], where Lord Palmerston was proposed,
and, against my opinion, was rejected[717]. I designed to go next week with Mr. Langton to
Rochester, where I purpose to stay about ten days, and then try some other air. I have many
kind invitations. Your brother has very frequently enquired after me. Most of my friends have,
indeed, been very attentive[718]. Thank dear Lord Hailes for his present.

I hope you found at your return every thing gay and prosperous, and your lady, in particular,
quite recovered and confirmed. Pay her my respects.

I am, dear Sir, Your most humble servant, SAM. JOHNSON. London, July 3, 1783.'

'To MRS. LUCY PORTER, IN LICHFIELD.

DEAR MADAM, The account which you give of your health is but melancholy. May it please GOD
to restore you. My disease affected my speech, and still continues, in some degree, to obstruct
my utterance; my voice is distinct enough for a while; but the organs being still weak are
quickly weary: but in other respects I am, I think, rather better than I have lately been;
and can let you know my state without the help of any other hand.

In the opinion of my friends, and in my own, I am gradually mending. The Physicians consider
me as cured; and I had leave, four days ago, to wash the cantharides from my head. Last Tuesday
I dined at THE CLUB.

I am going next week into Kent, and purpose to change the air frequently this summer; whether
I shall wander so far as Staffordshire I cannot tell. I should be glad to come. Return my thanks
to Mrs. Cobb, and Mr. Pearson, and all that have shewn attention to me.

Let us, my dear, pray for one another, and consider our sufferings as notices mercifully given
us to prepare ourselves for another state.

I live now but in a melancholy way. My old friend Mr. Levett is dead, who lived with me in
the house, and was useful and companionable; Mrs. Desmoulins is gone away[719]; and Mrs. Williams
is so much decayed, that she can add little to another's gratifications. The world passes away,
and we are passing with it; but there is, doubtless, another world, which will endure for ever.
Let us all fit ourselves for it.

I am, &c., SAM. JOHNSON. Heale, near Salisbury, Aug. 29, 1783.

DEAR SIR, Without appearing to want a just sense of your kind attention, I cannot omit to give
an account of the day which seemed to appear in some sort perilous. I rose at five and went
out at six, and having reached Salisbury about nine[724], went forward a few miles in my friend's
chariot. I was no more wearied with the journey, though it was a high-hung, rough coach, than
I should have been forty years ago. We shall now see what air will do. The country is all a
plain; and the house in which I am, so far as I can judge from my window, for I write before
I have left my chamber, is sufficiently pleasant.

Be so kind as to continue your attention to Mrs. Williams; it is great consolation to the well,
and still greater to the sick, that they find themselves not neglected; and I know that you
will be desirous of giving comfort even where you have no great hope of giving help.

Since I wrote the former part of the letter, I find that by the course of the post I cannot
send it before the thirty-first.

I am, &c. SAM. Upon this occasion he, according to his habitual course of piety, composed a
prayer[727].

I shall here insert a few particulars concerning him, with which I have been favoured by one
of his friends[728].

'He had once conceived the design of writing the Life of Oliver Cromwell[729], saying, that
he thought it must be highly curious to trace his extraordinary rise to the supreme power,
from so obscure a beginning. He at length laid aside his scheme, on discovering that all that
can be told of him is already in print; and that it is impracticable to procure any authentick
information in addition to what the world is already possessed of[730].'

'He had likewise projected, but at what part of his life is not known, a work to shew how small
a quantity of REAL FICTION there is in the world; and that the same images, with very little
variation, have served all the authours who have ever written[731].'

'His thoughts in the latter part of his life were frequently employed on his deceased friends.
He often muttered these, or such like sentences: "Poor man! and then he died."'

'Speaking of a certain literary friend, "He is a very pompous puzzling fellow, (said he); he
lent me a letter once that somebody had written to him, no matter what it was about; but he
wanted to have the letter back, and expressed a mighty value for it; he hoped it was to be
met with again, he would not lose it for a thousand pounds. I layed my hand upon it soon afterwards,
and gave it him. I believe I said, I was very glad to have met with it. O, then he did not
know that it signified any thing. So you see, when the letter was lost it was worth a thousand
pounds, and when it was found it was not worth a farthing."'

'The style and character of his conversation is pretty generally known; it was certainly conducted
in conformity with a precept of Lord Bacon, but it is not clear, I apprehend, that this conformity
was either perceived or intended by Johnson. The precept alluded to is as follows: "In all
kinds of speech, either pleasant, grave, severe, or ordinary, it is convenient to speak leisurely,
and rather drawingly than hastily: because hasty speech confounds the memory, and oftentimes,
besides the unseemliness, drives the man either to stammering, a non-plus, or harping on that
which should follow; whereas a slow speech confirmeth the memory, addeth a conceit of wisdom
to the hearers, besides a seemliness of speech and countenance[732]." Dr. Johnson's method
of conversation was certainly calculated to excite attention, and to amuse and instruct, (as
it happened,) without wearying or confusing his company. He was always most perfectly clear
and perspicuous; and his language was so accurate, and his sentences so neatly constructed,
that his conversation might have been all printed without any correction. I have before me
a letter of the 30th of July this year, to Mr. Cruikshank, in which he says, 'I am going to
put myself into your hands;' and another, accompanying a set of his Lives of the Poets, in
which he says, 'I beg your acceptance of these volumes, as an acknowledgement of the great
favours which you have bestowed on, Sir, your most obliged and most humble servant.' I have
in my possession several more letters from him to Mr. Cruikshank, and also to Dr. Mudge at
Plymouth, which it would be improper to insert, as they are filled with unpleasing technical
details. I shall, however, extract from his letters to Dr. Mudge such passages as shew either
a felicity of expression, or the undaunted state of his mind.

'My conviction of your skill, and my belief of your friendship, determine me to intreat your
opinion and advice.'--'In this state I with great earnestness desire you to tell me what is
to be done. Excision is doubtless necessary to the cure, and I know not any means of palliation.
The operation is doubtless painful; but is it dangerous? The pain I hope to endure with decency[744];
but I am loth to put life into much hazard.'--'By representing the gout as an antagonist to
the palsy, you have said enough to make it welcome. This is not strictly the first fit, but
I hope it is as good as the first; for it is the second that ever confined me; and the first
was ten years ago[745], much less fierce and fiery than this.'--'Write, dear Sir, what you
can to inform or encourage me. The operation is not delayed by any fears or objections of mine.'

To BENNET LANGTON, ESQ. 'Dear Sir, You may very reasonably charge me with insensibility of
your kindness, and that of Lady Rothes, since I have suffered so much time to pass without
paying any acknowledgement. I now, at last, return my thanks; and why I did it not sooner I
ought to tell you. I went into Wiltshire as soon as I well could, and was there much employed
in palliating my own malady. Disease produces much selfishness. A man in pain is looking after
ease; and lets most other things go as chance shall dispose of them. In the mean time I have
lost a companion[746], to whom I have had recourse for domestick amusement for thirty years,
and whose variety of knowledge never was exhausted; and now return to a habitation vacant and
desolate. I carry about a very troublesome and dangerous complaint, which admits no cure but
by the chirurgical knife. Let me have your prayers. I am, &c.

SAM. JOHNSON.

In a letter to the same gentleman he writes, 'The gout has within these four days come upon
me with a violence which I never experienced before. It made me helpless as an infant.' And
in another, having mentioned Mrs. Williams, he says,--'whose death following that of Levett,
has now made my house a solitude. She left her little substance to a charity-school. She is,
I hope, where there is neither darkness, nor want, nor sorrow.'

I wrote to him, begging to know the state of his health, and mentioned that Baxter's Anacreon[747],
'which is in the library at Auchinleck, was, I find, collated by my father in 1727, with the
MS. belonging to the University of Leyden, and he has made a number of Notes upon it. Would
you advise me to publish a new edition of it?'

His answer was dated September 30:--

'You should not make your letters such rarities, when you know, or might know, the uniform
state of my health. It is very long since I heard from you; and that I have not answered is
a very insufficient reason for the silence of a friend. Your Anacreon is a very uncommon book;
neither London nor Cambridge can supply a copy of that edition. Whether it should be reprinted,
you cannot do better than consult Lord Hailes.--Besides my constant and radical disease, I
have been for these ten days much harassed with the gout; but that has now remitted. In a letter
to one of the Miss Thrales[760], he writes,--

'A friend, whose name I will tell when your mamma has tried to guess it, sent to my physician
to enquire whether this long train of illness had brought me into difficulties for want of
money, with an invitation to send to him for what occasion required. I shall write this night
to thank him, having no need to borrow.'

And afterwards, in a letter to Mrs. Thrale,--

'Since you cannot guess, I will tell you, that the generous man was Gerard Hamilton. I returned
him a very thankful and respectful letter[761].'

I applied to Mr. Hamilton, by a common friend, and he has been so obliging as to let me have
Johnson's letter to him upon this occasion, to adorn my collection.

'To THE RIGHT HONOURABLE WILLIAM GERARD HAMILTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'Your kind enquiries after my affairs, and your generous offers, have been communicated to
me by Dr. Brocklesby. I return thanks with great sincerity, having lived long enough to know
what gratitude is due to such friendship; and entreat that my refusal may not be imputed to
sullenness or pride. I am, indeed, in no want. Sickness is, by the generosity of my physicians,
of little expence to me. But if any unexpected exigence should press me, you shall see, dear
Sir, how cheerfully I can be obliged to so much liberality.

     'I am, Sir,
        Your most obedient
          And most humble servant,
                    SAM. Johnson this year, I find, obtained for it a sermon from
the late Bishop of St. Asaph, Dr. Shipley, whom he, in one of his
letters to Mrs. Thrale[766], characterises as 'knowing and conversible;'
and whom all who knew his Lordship, even those who differed from him in
politicks, remember with much respect[767].

The Earl of Carlisle having written a tragedy, entitled The Fathers Revenge[768], some of his
Lordship's friends applied to Mrs. Chapone[769] to prevail on Dr. Johnson to read and give
his opinion of it[770], which he accordingly did, in a letter to that lady. Sir Joshua Reynolds
having informed me that this letter was in Lord Carlisle's possession, though I was not fortunate
enough to have the honour of being known to his Lordship, trusting to the general courtesy
of literature, I wrote to him, requesting the favour of a copy of it, and to be permitted to
insert it in my Life of Dr. Johnson. His Lordship was so good as to comply with my request,
and has thus enabled me to enrich my work with a very fine piece of writing, which displays
both the critical skill and politeness of my illustrious friend; and perhaps the curiosity
which it will excite, may induce the noble and elegant Authour to gratify the world by the
publication[771] of a performance, of which Dr. Johnson has spoken in such terms.

'To MRS. CHAPONE.

'MADAM,

'By sending the tragedy to me a second time[772], I think that a very honourable distinction
has been shewn me, and I did not delay the perusal, of which I am now to tell the effect.

'The construction of the play is not completely regular; the stage is too often vacant, and
the scenes are not sufficiently connected. This, however, would be called by Dryden only a
mechanical defect[773]; which takes away little from the power of the poem, and which is seen
rather than felt.

'A rigid examiner of the diction might, perhaps, wish some words changed, and some lines more
vigorously terminated. But from such petty imperfections what writer was ever free?

'The general form and force of the dialogue is of more importance. It seems to want that quickness
of reciprocation which characterises the English drama, and is not always sufficiently fervid
or animated.

'Of the sentiments I remember not one that I wished omitted. In the imagery I cannot forbear
to distinguish the comparison of joy succeeding grief to light rushing on the eye accustomed
to darkness. It seems to have all that can be desired to make it please. It is new, just, and
delightful[774].

'With the characters, either as conceived or preserved, I have no fault to find; but was much
inclined to congratulate a writer, who, in defiance of prejudice and fashion, made the Archbishop
a good man, and scorned all thoughtless applause, which a vicious churchman would have brought him.

'The catastrophe is affecting. The Father and Daughter both culpable, both wretched, and both
penitent, divide between them our pity and our sorrow.

'Thus, Madam, I have performed what I did not willingly undertake, and could not decently refuse.
The noble writer will be pleased to remember, that sincere criticism ought to raise no resentment,
because judgement is not under the controul of will; but involuntary criticism, as it has still
less of choice, ought to be more remote from possibility of offence.

'I am, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'November 28, 1783.'

I consulted him on two questions of a very different nature: one, whether the unconstitutional
influence exercised by the Peers of Scotland in the election of the representatives of the
Commons[775], by means of fictitious qualifications, ought not to be resisted;--the other,
What, in propriety and humanity, should be done with old horses unable to labour. I gave him
some account of my life at Auchinleck: and expressed my satisfaction that the gentlemen of
the county had, at two publick meetings, elected me their Praeses or Chairman[776].

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Like all other men who have great friends, you begin to feel the pangs of neglected merit;
and all the comfort that I can give you is, by telling you that you have probably more pangs
to feel, and more neglect to suffer. You have, indeed, begun to complain too soon; and I hope
I am the only confidant of your discontent. Your friends have not yet had leisure to gratify
personal kindness; they have hitherto been busy in strengthening their ministerial interest[777].
If a vacancy happens in Scotland, give them early intelligence; and as you can serve Government
as powerfully as any of your probable competitors, you may make in some sort a warrantable claim.

'Of the exaltations and depressions of your mind you delight to talk, and I hate to hear. Drive
all such fancies from you.

'On the day when I received your letter, I think, the foregoing page was written; to which,
one disease or another has hindered me from making any additions. I am now a little better.
But sickness and solitude press me very heavily. I could bear sickness better, if I were relieved
from solitude[778].

'The present dreadful confusion of the publick[779] ought to make you wrap yourself up in your
hereditary possessions, which, though less than you may wish, are more than you can want; and
in an hour of religious retirement return thanks to GOD, who has exempted you from any strong
temptation to faction, treachery, plunder[780], and disloyalty.

'As your neighbours distinguish you by such honours as they can bestow, content yourself with
your station, without neglecting your profession. Your estate and the Courts will find you
full employment; and your mind, well occupied, will be quiet.

'The usurpation of the nobility, for they apparently usurp all the influence they gain by fraud
and misrepresentation, I think it certainly lawful, perhaps your duty, to resist. What is not
their own they have only by robbery.

'Your question about the horses gives me more perplexity. I know not well what advice to give
you. I can only recommend a rule which you do not want;--give as little pain as you can. I
suppose that we have a right to their service while their strength lasts; what we can do with
them afterwards I cannot so easily determine. But let us consider. Nobody denies that man has
a right first to milk the cow, and to sheer the sheep, and then to kill them for his table.
May he not, by parity of reason, first work a horse, and then kill him the easiest way, that
he may have the means of another horse, or food for cows and sheep? Man is influenced in both
cases by different motives of self-interest. He that rejects the one must reject the other.

'I am, &c.

'SAM. Next year, when the Lusiad was published, I waited on Dr. Johnson, who addressed me with
one of his good-humoured smiles:--"Well, you have remembered our dispute about Prince Henry,
and have cited me too. You have done your part very well indeed: you have made the best of
your argument; but I am not convinced yet."

'Before publishing the Lusiad, I sent Mr. Hoole a proof of that part of the introduction, in
which I make mention of Dr. Johnson, yourself, and other well-wishers to the work, begging
it might be shewn to Dr. Johnson. This was accordingly done; and in place of the simple mention
of him which I had made, he dictated to Mr. Hoole the sentence as it now stands[784].

I shall here mention what, in strict chronological arrangement, should have appeared in my
account of last year; but may more properly be introduced here, the controversy having not
been closed till this. The Reverend Mr. Shaw[786], a native of one of the Hebrides, having
entertained doubts of the authenticity of the poems ascribed to Ossian, divested himself of
national bigotry; and having travelled in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, and also in
Ireland, in order to furnish himself with materials for a Gaelick Dictionary, which he afterwards
compiled[787], was so fully satisfied that Dr. Johnson was in the right upon the question,
that he candidly published a pamphlet, stating his conviction and the proofs and reasons on
which it was founded. A person at Edinburgh, of the name of Clark, answered this pamphlet with
much zeal, and much abuse of its authour. Johnson took Mr. Shaw under his protection, and gave
him his assistance in writing a reply, which has been admired by the best judges, and by many
been considered as conclusive. A few paragraphs, which sufficiently mark their great Authour,
shall be selected:--

'My assertions are, for the most part, purely negative: I deny the existence of Fingal, because
in a long and curious peregrination through the Gaelick regions I have never been able to find
it. What I could not see myself I suspect to be equally invisible to others; and I suspect
with the more reason, as among all those who have seen it no man can shew it.

'Mr. Clark compares the obstinacy of those who disbelieve the genuineness of Ossian to a blind
man, who should dispute the reality of colours, and deny that the British troops are cloathed
in red. The blind man's doubt would be rational, if he did not know by experience that others
have a power which he himself wants: but what perspicacity has Mr. Clark which Nature has withheld
from me or the rest of mankind?

'The true state of the parallel must be this. Suppose a man, with eyes like his neighbours,
was told by a boasting corporal, that the troops, indeed, wore red clothes for their ordinary
dress, but that every soldier had likewise a suit of black velvet, which he put on when the
King reviews them. This he thinks strange, and desires to see the fine clothes, but finds nobody
in forty thousand men that can produce either coat or waistcoat. One, indeed, has left them
in his chest at Port Mahon; another has always heard that he ought to have velvet clothes somewhere;
and a third has heard somebody say, that soldiers ought to wear velvet. Can the enquirer be
blamed if he goes away believing that a soldier's red coat is all that he has?

'But the most obdurate incredulity may be shamed or silenced by acts. To overpower contradictions,
let the soldier shew his velvet-coat, and the Fingalist the original of Ossian[788]. Johnson
himself, like his namesake Old Ben[795], composed the Rules of his Club[796].

'I am, &c.

'SAM.

The following is a remarkable proof of his being alive to the most minute curiosities of literature.

'To MR. DILLY, BOOKSELLER, IN THE POULTRY.

'SIR,

'There is in the world a set of books which used to be sold by the booksellers on the bridge[802],
and which I must entreat you to procure me. They are called Burton's Books[803]; the title
of one is Admirable Curiosities, Rarities, and Wonders in England. I believe there are about
five or six of them; they seem very proper to allure backward readers; be so kind as to get
them for me, and send me them with the best printed edition of Baxter's Call to the Unconverted.

'I am, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 6, 1784.'

'To MR. PERKINS.

'DEAR SIR,

'I was very sorry not to see you when you were so kind as to call on me; but to disappoint
friends, and if they are not very good natured, to disoblige them, is one of the evils of sickness.
If you will please to let me know which of the afternoons in this week I shall be favoured
with another visit by you and Mrs. Perkins, and the young people, I will take all the measures
that I can to be pretty well at that time[804].

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 21, 1784.'

His attention to the Essex-Head Club appears from the following letter to Mr. Alderman Clark,
a gentleman for whom he deservedly entertained a great regard.

'To RICHARD CLARK, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'You will receive a requisition, according to the rules of the Club, to be at the house as
President of the night. This turn comes once a month, and the member is obliged to attend,
or send another in his place. You were enrolled in the Club by my invitation, and I ought to
introduce you; but as I am hindered by sickness, Mr. Hoole will very properly supply my place
as introductor, or yours as President. I hope in milder weather to be a very constant attendant.

'I am, Sir, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 27, 1784.'

'You ought to be informed that the forfeits began with the year, and that every night of non-attendance
incurs the mulct of three-pence, that is, nine pence a week.'

On the 8th of January I wrote to him, anxiously inquiring as to his health, and enclosing my
Letter to the People of Scotland, on the present state of the nation[805].

'I trust, (said I,) that you will be liberal enough to make allowance for my differing from
you on two points, (the Middlesex Election, and the American War[806]) when my general principles
of government are according to your own heart, and when, at a crisis of doubtful event, I stand
forth with honest zeal as an ancient and faithful Briton. My reason for introducing those two
points was, that as my opinions with regard to them had been declared at the periods when they
were least favourable, I might have the credit of a man who is not a worshipper of ministerial
power.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I hear of many enquiries which your kindness has disposed you to make after me[807]. I have
long intended you a long letter, which perhaps the imagination of its length hindered me from
beginning. I will, therefore, content myself with a shorter.

'Having promoted the institution of a new Club in the neighbourhood, at the house of an old
servant of Thrale's, I went thither to meet the company, and was seized with a spasmodick asthma
so violent, that with difficulty I got to my own house, in which I have been confined eight
or nine weeks, and from which I know not when I shall be able to go even to church. The asthma,
however, is not the worst. A dropsy gains ground upon me; my legs and thighs are very much
swollen with water, which I should be content if I could keep there, but I am afraid that it
will soon be higher. My nights are very sleepless and very tedious. And yet I am extremely
afraid of dying.

'My physicians try to make me hope, that much of my malady is the effect of cold, and that
some degree at least of recovery is to be expected from vernal breezes and summer suns[808].
If my life is prolonged to autumn, I should be glad to try a warmer climate; though how to
travel with a diseased body, without a companion to conduct me, and with very little money,
I do not well see. Ramsay has recovered his limbs in Italy[809]; and Fielding was sent to Lisbon,
where, indeed, he died; but he was, I believe, past hope when he went. Think for me what I can do.

'I received your pamphlet, and when I write again may perhaps tell you some opinion about it;
but you will forgive a man struggling with disease his neglect of disputes, politicks, and
pamphlets[810]. Let me have your prayers. My compliments to your lady, and young ones. Ask
your physicians about my case: and desire Sir Alexander Dick[811] to write me his opinion.

'I am, dear Sir, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Feb. 11, 1784.'

'TO MRS. LUCY PORTER, IN LICHFIELD.

'MY DEAREST LOVE,

'I have been extremely ill of an asthma and dropsy, but received, by the mercy of GOD, sudden
and unexpected relief last Thursday, by the discharge of twenty pints of water[812]. Whether
I shall continue free, or shall fill again, cannot be told. Pray for me.

'Death, my dear, is very dreadful; let us think nothing worth our care but how to prepare for
it: what we know amiss in ourselves let us make haste to amend, and put our trust in the mercy
of GOD, and the intercession of our Saviour. I am, dear Madam,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Feb. 23, 1784.'

TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have just advanced so far towards recovery as to read a pamphlet; and you may reasonably
suppose that the first pamphlet which I read was yours. I am very much of your opinion, and,
like you, feel great indignation at the indecency with which the King is every day treated.
Your paper contains very considerable knowledge of history and of the constitution, very properly
produced and applied. It will certainly raise your character[813], though perhaps it may not
make you a Minister of State.

'I desire you to see Mrs. Stewart once again, and tell her, that in the letter-case was a letter
relating to me, for which I will give her, if she is willing to give it me, another guinea[814].
The letter is of consequence only to me.

'I am, dear Sir, &c. 'SAM. The opinion was conveyed in a letter to me, beginning, 'I am sincerely
sorry for the bad state of health your very learned and illustrious friend, Dr. Johnson, labours
under at present.'

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ. 'DEAR SIR,

'Presently after I had sent away my last letter, I received your kind medical packet. I am
very much obliged both to you and your physicians for your kind attention to my disease. Dr.
Gillespie has sent me an excellent consilium medicum, all solid practical experimental knowledge.
I am at present, in the opinion of my physicians, (Dr. Heberden and Dr. Brocklesby,) as well
as my own, going on very hopefully. I have just begun to take vinegar of squills. The powder
hurt my stomach so much, that it could not be continued.

'Return Sir Alexander Dick my sincere thanks for his kind letter; and bring with you the rhubarb[815]
which he so tenderly offers me.

'I hope dear Mrs. Boswell is now quite well, and that no evil, either real or imaginary, now
disturbs you.

'I am, &c.

'SAM.

'This, you see, is not authority for a regular consultation: but I have no doubt of your readiness
to give your advice to a man so eminent, and who, in his Life of Garth, has paid your profession
a just and elegant compliment: "I believe every man has found in physicians great liberality
and dignity of sentiment, very prompt effusions[816] of beneficence, and willingness to exert
a lucrative art, where there is no hope of lucre."

'Dr. Johnson is aged seventy-four. Last summer he had a stroke of the palsy, from which he
recovered almost entirely. He had, before that, been troubled with a catarrhous cough. This
winter he was seized with a spasmodick asthma, by which he has been confined to his house for
about three months. Dr. Brocklesby writes to me, that upon the least admission of cold, there
is such a constriction upon his breast, that he cannot lie down in his bed, but is obliged
to sit up all night, and gets rest and sometimes sleep, only by means of laudanum and syrup
of poppies; and that there are oedematous tumours on his legs and thighs. Dr. Brocklesby trusts
a good deal to the return of mild weather. Dr. Johnson says, that a dropsy gains ground upon
him; and he seems to think that a warmer climate would do him good. I understand he is now
rather better, and is using vinegar of squills. Doctors Cullen and Monro wrote their opinions
and prescriptions to me, which I afterwards carried with me to London, and, so far as they
were encouraging, communicated to Johnson. The liberality on one hand, and grateful sense of
it on the other, I have great satisfaction in recording.

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am too much pleased with the attention which you and your dear lady[817] show to my welfare,
not to be diligent in letting you know the progress which I make towards health. The dropsy,
by GOD'S blessing, has now run almost totally away by natural evacuation; and the asthma, if
not irritated by cold, gives me little trouble. While I am writing this, I have not any sensation
of debility or disease. But I do not yet venture out, having been confined to the house from
the thirteenth of December, now a quarter of a year.

'When it will be fit for me to travel as far as Auchinleck, I am not able to guess; but such
a letter as Mrs. Boswell's might draw any man, not wholly motionless, a great way. Pray tell
the dear lady how much her civility and kindness have touched and gratified me.

'Our parliamentary tumults have now begun to subside, and the King's authority is in some measure
re-established[818]. Mr. Pitt will have great power: but you must remember, that what he has
to give must, at least for some time, be given to those who gave, and those who preserve, his
power. A new minister can sacrifice little to esteem or friendship; he must, till he is settled,
think only of extending his interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

'If you come hither through Edinburgh, send for Mrs. Stewart, and give from me another guinea
for the letter in the old case, to which I shall not be satisfied with my claim, till she gives
it me.

'Please to bring with you Baxter's Anacreon[819]; and if you procure heads of Hector Boece[820],
the historian, and Arthur Johnston[821], the poet, I will put them in my room[822]; or any
other of the fathers of Scottish literature.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'You could do nothing so proper as to haste back when you found the Parliament dissolved. With
the influence which your Address must have gained you, it may reasonably be expected that your
presence will be of importance, and your activity of effect.

'Your solicitude for me gives me that pleasure which every man feels from the kindness of such
a friend: and it is with delight I relieve it by telling, that Dr. Brocklesby's account is
true, and that I am, by the blessing of GOD, wonderfully relieved.

'You are entering upon a transaction which requires much prudence. You must endeavour to oppose
without exasperating; to practise temporary hostility, without producing enemies for life.
This is, perhaps, hard to be done; yet it has been done by many, and seems most likely to be
effected by opposing merely upon general principles, without descending to personal or particular
censures or objections. One thing I must enjoin you, which is seldom observed in the conduct
of elections;--I must entreat you to be scrupulous in the use of strong liquors. One night's
drunkenness may defeat the labours of forty days well employed. Be firm, but not clamorous;
be active, but not malicious; and you may form such an interest, as may not only exalt yourself,
but dignify your family.

'We are, as you may suppose, all busy here. Mr. Fox resolutely stands for Westminster, and
his friends say will carry the election[824]. However that be, he will certainly have a seat[825].
Mr. Hoole has just told me, that the city leans towards the King.

'Let me hear, from time to time, how you are employed, and what progress you make.

'Make dear Mrs. Boswell, and all the young Boswells, the sincere compliments of, Sir, your
affectionate humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, March 30, 1784.'

To Mr. Langton he wrote with that cordiality which was suitable to the long friendship which
had subsisted between him and that gentleman[826].

March 27. 'Since you left me, I have continued in my own opinion, and in Dr, Brocklesby's,
to grow better with respect to all my formidable and dangerous distempers: though to a body
battered and shaken as mine has lately been, it is to be feared that weak attacks may be sometimes
mischievous. I have, indeed, by standing carelessly at an open window, got a very troublesome
cough, which it has been necessary to appease by opium, in larger quantities than I like to
take, and I have not found it give way so readily as I expected; its obstinacy, however, seems
at last disposed to submit to the remedy, and I know not whether I should then have a right
to complain of any morbid sensation. My asthma is, I am afraid, constitutional and incurable;
but it is only occasional, and unless it be excited by labour or by cold, gives me no molestation,
nor does it lay very close siege to life; for Sir John Floyer[827], whom the physical race
consider as authour of one of the best books upon it, panted on to ninety, as was supposed;
and why were we content with supposing a fact so interesting, of a man so conspicuous? because
he corrupted, at perhaps seventy or eighty, the register, that he might pass for younger than
he was. He was not much less than eighty, when to a man of rank who modestly asked his age,
he answered, "Go look;" though he was in general a man of civility and elegance.

'The ladies, I find, are at your house all well, except Miss Langton, who will probably soon
recover her health by light suppers. Let her eat at dinner as she will, but not take a full
stomach to bed. Pay my sincere respects to dear Miss Langton in Lincolnshire, let her know
that I mean not to break our league of friendship, and that I have a set of Lives for her,
when I have the means of sending it.'

April 8. 'I am still disturbed by my cough; but what thanks have I not to pay, when my cough
is the most painful sensation that I feel? and from that I expect hardly to be released, while
winter continues to gripe us with so much pertinacity. The year has now advanced eighteen days
beyond the equinox, and still there is very little remission of the cold. When warm weather
comes, which surely must come at last, I hope it will help both me and your young lady.

'The man so busy about addresses is neither more nor less than our own Boswell, who had come
as far as York towards London, but turned back on the dissolution, and is said now to stand
for some place. Whether to wish him success, his best friends hesitate.

'Let me have your prayers for the completion of my recovery: I am now better than I ever expected
to have been. May GOD add to his mercies the grace that may enable me to use them according
to his will. My compliments to all.'

April 13. 'I had this evening a note from Lord Portmore[828], desiring that I would give you
an account of my health. You might have had it with less circumduction. I am, by GOD'S blessing,
I believe, free from all morbid sensations, except a cough, which is only troublesome. But
I am still weak, and can have no great hope of strength till the weather shall be softer. The
summer, if it be kindly, will, I hope, enable me to support the winter. GOD, who has so wonderfully
restored me, can preserve me in all seasons.

'Let me enquire in my turn after the state of your family, great and little. I hope Lady Rothes
and Miss Langton are both well. That is a good basis of content. Then how goes George on with
his studies? How does Miss Mary? And how does my own Jenny? I think I owe Jenny a letter, which
I will take care to pay. In the mean time tell her that I acknowledge the debt.

'Be pleased to make my compliments to the ladies. If Mrs. Langton comes to London, she will
favour me with a visit, for I am not well enough to go out.'

'To OZIAS HUMPHRY[829], ESQ.

'SIR,

'Mr. Hoole has told me with what benevolence you listened to a request which I was almost afraid
to make, of leave to a young painter[830] to attend you from time to time in your painting-room,
to see your operations, and receive your instructions[831].

'The young man has perhaps good parts, but has been without a regular education. He is my god-son,
and therefore I interest myself in his progress and success, and shall think myself much favoured
if I receive from you a permission to send him.

'My health is, by GOD'S blessing, much restored, but I am not yet allowed by my physicians
to go abroad; nor, indeed, do I think myself yet able to endure the weather.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'April 5, 1784.'

To THE SAME.

'SIR,

'The bearer is my god-son, whom I take the liberty of recommending to your kindness; which
I hope he will deserve by his respect to your excellence, and his gratitude for your favours.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'April 10, 1784.'

To THE SAME.

'SIR,

'I am very much obliged by your civilities to my god-son, but must beg of you to add to them
the favour of permitting him to see you paint, that he may know how a picture is begun, advanced
and completed.

'If he may attend you in a few of your operations, I hope he will shew that the benefit has
been properly conferred, both by his proficiency and his gratitude. At least I shall consider
you as enlarging your kindness to, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM.

On Sunday, May 9, I found Colonel Valiancy, the celebrated antiquarian and Engineer of Ireland,
with him.

Dr. Douglas, upon this occasion, refuted a mistaken notion which is very common in Scotland,
that the ecclesiastical discipline of the Church of England, though duly enforced, is insufficient
to preserve the morals of the clergy, inasmuch as all delinquents may be screened by appealing
to the Convocation, which being never authorized by the King to sit for the dispatch of business,
the appeal never can be heard. Dr. Douglas observed, that this was founded upon ignorance;
for that the Bishops have sufficient power to maintain discipline, and that the sitting of
the Convocation was wholly immaterial in this respect, it being not a Court of judicature,
but like a parliament, to make Canons and regulations as times may require.

Johnson, talking of the fear of death, said, 'Some people are not afraid, because they look
upon salvation as the effect of an absolute decree, and think they feel in themselves the marks
of sanctification. I told him that the mob had called out, as the King passed[862], 'No Fox--No
Fox,' which I did not like. He said, 'They were right, Sir.' I said, I thought not; for it
seemed to be making Mr. Fox the King's competitor[863]. There being no audience, so that there
could be no triumph in a victory, he fairly agreed with me[864]. I said it might do very well,
if explained thus:--'Let us have no Fox;' understanding it as a prayer to his Majesty not to
appoint that gentleman minister.

I have preserved no more of his conversation at the times when I saw him during the rest of
this month, till Sunday, the 30th of May, when I met him in the evening at Mr. Hoole's, where
there was a large company both of ladies and gentlemen; Sir James Johnston[869] happened to
say, that he paid no regard to the arguments of counsel at the bar of the House of Commons,
because they were paid for speaking. 'JOHNSON. 'Nay, Sir, argument is argument. You cannot
help paying regard to their arguments, if they are good. If it were testimony, you might disregard
it, if you knew that it were purchased. There is a beautiful image in Bacon[870] upon this
subject: testimony is like an arrow shot from a long bow; the force of it depends on the strength
of the hand that draws it. He durst not have printed it while he was alive.' DR. ADAMS. 'I
believe his Dissertations on the Prophecies is his great work.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, it is Tom's
great work; but how far it is great, or how much of it is Tom's, are other questions. I fancy
a considerable part of it was borrowed.' DR. ADAMS. 'He was a very successful man.' JOHNSON.
'I don't think so, Sir. He did not get very high. He was late in getting what he did get; and
he did not get it by the best means.

He talked with great regard of the Honourable Archibald Campbell, whose character he had given
at the Duke of Argyll's table, when we were at Inverary[883]; and at this time wrote out for
me, in his own hand, a fuller account of that learned and venerable writer, which I have published
in its proper place. Johnson made a remark this evening which struck me a good deal. 'I never
(said he) knew a non-juror who could reason[884].' Surely he did not mean to deny that faculty
to many of their writers; to Hickes, Brett[885], and other eminent divines of that persuasion;
and did not recollect that the seven Bishops, so justly celebrated for their magnanimous resistance
of arbitrary power, were yet Nonjurors to the new Government[886]. The nonjuring clergy of
Scotland, indeed, who, excepting a few, have lately, by a sudden stroke, cut off all ties of
allegiance to the house of Stuart, and resolved to pray for our present lawful Sovereign by
name, may be thought to have confirmed this remark; as it may be said, that the divine indefeasible
hereditary right which they professed to believe, if ever true, must be equally true still.
Many of my readers will be surprized when I mention, that Johnson assured me he had never in
his life been in a nonjuring meeting-house[887]. Johnson, who warmly admired every man who
acted from a conscientious regard to principle, erroneous or not, exclaimed fervently, 'GOD
bless him.'

Mrs. Kennicot, in confirmation of Dr. Johnson's opinion[890], that the present was not worse
than former ages, mentioned that her brother assured her, there was now less infidelity on
the Continent than there had been; Voltaire and Rousseau were less read. I asserted, from good
authority, that Hume's infidelity was certainly less read. JOHNSON. 'All infidel writers drop
into oblivion, when personal connections and the floridness of novelty are gone; though now
and then a foolish fellow, who thinks he can be witty upon them, may bring them again into
notice. There will sometimes start up a College joker, who does not consider that what is a
joke in a College will not do in the world. To such defenders of Religion I would apply a stanza
of a poem which I remember to have seen in some old collection:--

     "Henceforth be quiet and agree,
        Each kiss his empty brother;
      Religion scorns a foe like thee,
        But dreads a friend like t'other."

The point is well, though the expression is not correct; one, and not thee, should be opposed
to t'other[891].'

On the Roman Catholick religion he said, 'If you join the Papists externally, they will not
interrogate you strictly as to your belief in their tenets. No reasoning Papist believes every
article of their faith. There is one side on which a good man might be persuaded to embrace
it. A good man of a timorous disposition, in great doubt of his acceptance with GOD, and pretty
credulous, might be glad to be of a church where there, are so many helps to get to Heaven.
I would be a Papist if I could. I have fear enough; but an obstinate rationality prevents me.
I shall never be a Papist, unless on the near approach of death, of which I have a very great
terrour. I wonder that women are not all Papists.' BOSWELL. 'They are not more afraid of death
than men are.' JOHNSON. 'Because they are less wicked.' DR. ADAMS. 'They are more pious.' JOHNSON.
'No, hang 'em, they are not more pious. A wicked fellow is the most pious when he takes to
it. He'll beat you all at piety.'

He argued in defence of some of the peculiar tenets of the Church of Rome. As to the giving
the bread only to the laity, he said, 'They may think, that in what is merely ritual, deviations
from the primitive mode may be admitted on the ground of convenience, and I think they are
as well warranted to make this alteration, as we are to substitute sprinkling in the room of
the ancient baptism.' As to the invocation of saints[892], he said, 'Though I do not think
it authorised, it appears to me, that "the communion of saints" in the Creed means the communion
with the saints in Heaven, as connected with "The holy Catholick Church[893]."' He admitted
the influence of evil spirits[894] upon our minds, and said, 'Nobody who believes the New Testament
can deny it.'

I brought a volume of Dr. Hurd the Bishop of Worcester's Sermons, and read to the company some
passages from one of them, upon this text, 'Resist the Devil, and he will fly[895] from you.'
James, iv. 7. I was happy to produce so judicious and elegant a supporter[896] of a doctrine,
which, I know not why, should, in this world of imperfect knowledge, and, therefore, of wonder
and mystery in a thousand instances, be contested by some with an unthinking assurance and
flippancy. 'Yes, Sir; the King is my master; but I do not know Pitt; and Fox is my friend[898].'

'Fox, (added he,) is a most extraordinary man; here is a man (describing him in strong terms
of objection in some respects according as he apprehended, but which exalted his abilities
the more) who has divided the Kingdom with Caesar[899]; so that it, was a doubt whether the
nation should be ruled by the sceptre of George the Third, or the tongue of Fox.'

Dr. Wall, physician at Oxford, drank tea with us. Johnson had in general a peculiar pleasure
in the company of physicians, which was certainly not abated by the conversation of this learned,
ingenious, and pleasing gentleman. Johnson said, 'It is wonderful how little good Radcliffe's
travelling fellowships[900] have done. I know nothing that has been imported by them; yet many
additions to our medical knowledge might be got in foreign countries. Inoculation, for instance,
has saved more lives than war destroys[901]: and the cures performed by the Peruvian-bark are
innumerable.

I mentioned Jeremy Taylor's using, in his forms of prayer, 'I am the chief of sinners,' and
other such self-condemning expressions[903]. 'Now, (said I) this cannot be said with truth
by every man, and therefore is improper for a general printed form. I myself cannot say that
I am the worst of men; I will not say so.' JOHNSON. 'A man may know, that physically, that
is, in the real state of things, he is not the worst man; but that morally he may be so. Law
observes that "Every man knows something worse of himself, than he is sure of in others[904]."
You may not have committed such crimes as some men have done; but you do not know against what
degree of light they have sinned. Besides, Sir, "the chief of sinners" is a mode of expression
for "I am a great sinner." So St. Paul, speaking of our SAVIOUR'S having died to save sinners,
says, "of whom I am the chief[905];" yet he certainly did not think himself so bad as Judas
Iscariot.' BOSWELL. 'But, Sir, Taylor means it literally, for he founds a conceit upon it.
When praying for the conversion of sinners, and of himself in particular, he says, "LORD, thou
wilt not leave thy chief work undone." JOHNSON. 'I do not approve of figurative expressions
in addressing the Supreme Being; and I never use them[906]. Taylor gives a very good advice:
"Never lie in your prayers; never confess more than you really believe; never promise more
than you mean to perform[907]."

Dr. Nowell is celebrated for having preached a sermon before the House of Commons, on the 3Oth
of January, 1773, full of high Tory sentiments, for which he was thanked as usual, and printed
it at their request; but, in the midst of that turbulence and faction which disgraced a part
of the present reign, the thanks were afterwards ordered to be expunged[911]. This strange
conduct sufficiently exposes itself; and Dr. Nowell will ever have the honour which is due
to a lofty friend of our monarchical constitution. Dr. Johnson said to me, 'Sir, the Court
will be very much to blame, if he is not promoted.' I told this to Dr. Nowell, and asserting
my humbler, though not less zealous exertions in the same cause, I suggested that whatever
return we might receive, we should still have the consolation of being like Butler's steady
and generous Royalist,

     'True as the dial to the sun,
      Although it be not shone upon[912].'

We were well entertained and very happy at Dr. Nowell's, where was a very agreeable company,
and we drank 'Church and King' after dinner, with true Tory cordiality.

I censured the coarse invectives which were become fashionable in the House of Commons[915],
and said that if members of parliament must attack each other personally in the heat of debate,
it should be done more genteely. JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; that would be much worse. Abuse is not
so dangerous when there is no vehicle of wit or delicacy, no subtle conveyance. The difference
between coarse and refined abuse is as the difference between being bruised by a club, and
wounded by a poisoned arrow.' I have since observed his position elegantly expressed by Dr.
Young:--

     'As the soft plume gives swiftness to the dart,
      Good breeding sends the satire to the heart[916].'

On Saturday, June 12, there drank tea with us at Dr. Adams's, Mr. John Henderson, student of
Pembroke-College, celebrated for his wonderful acquirements in Alchymy, Judicial Astrology,
and other abstruse and curious learning[917]; and the Reverend Herbert Croft, who, I am afraid,
was somewhat mortified by Dr. Johnson's not being highly pleased with some Family Discourses,
which he had printed; they were in too familiar a style to be approved of by so manly a mind.
I have no note of this evening's conversation, except a single fragment. When I mentioned Thomas
Lord Lyttelton's vision[918], the prediction of the time of his death, and its exact fulfilment;--JOHNSON.
'It is the most extraordinary thing that has happened in my day. I heard it with my own ears,
from his uncle, Lord Westcote. I am so glad to have every evidence of the spiritual world,
that I am willing to believe it.' DR. ADAMS. 'You have evidence enough; good evidence, which
needs not such support.' JOHNSON. This is an inquiry often made; and its being a subject of
disquisition is a proof that much misery presses upon human feelings; for those who are conscious
of a felicity of existence, would never hesitate to accept of a repetition of it. I have met
with very few who would. I have heard Mr. Burke make use of a very ingenious and plausible
argument on this subject;--'Every man (said he) would lead his life over again; for, every
man is willing to go on and take an addition to his life, which, as he grows older, he has
no reason to think will be better, or even so good as what has preceded.' I imagine, however,
the truth is, that there is a deceitful hope that the next part of life will be free from the
pains, and anxieties, and sorrows, which we have already felt[925]. We are for wise purposes
'Condemn'd to Hope's delusive mine;' as Johnson finely says[926]; and I may also quote the
celebrated lines of Dryden, equally philosophical and poetical:--

     'When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat,
      Yet fool'd with hope, men favour the deceit:
      Trust on, and think to-morrow will repay;
      To-morrow's falser than the former day;
      Lies worse; and while it says we shall be blest
      With some new joys, cuts off what we possest. JOHNSON. 'Alas! it is all outside; I may be
cracking my joke[928], and cursing the sun. Sun, how I hate thy
beams[929]!' I knew not well what to think of this declaration; whether
to hold it as a genuine picture of his mind[930], or as the effect of
his persuading himself contrary to fact, that the position which he had
assumed as to human unhappiness, was true. We may apply to him a
sentence in Mr. Greville's[931] Maxims, Characters, and
Reflections[932]; a book which is entitled to much more praise than it
has received: 'ARISTARCHUS is charming: how full of knowledge, of sense,
of sentiment. JOHNSON. 'The general rule is, that Truth
should never be violated, because it is of the utmost importance to the
comfort of life, that we should have a full security by mutual faith;
and occasional inconveniences should be willingly suffered that we may
preserve it. There must, however, be some exceptions. If, for instance,
a murderer should ask you which way a man is gone, you may tell him what
is not true, because you are under a previous obligation not to betray a
man to a murderer[935].' BOSWELL. 'Supposing the person who wrote
Junius were asked whether he was the authour, might he deny it?'
JOHNSON. 'I don't know what to say to this. If you were sure that he
wrote Junius, would you, if he denied it, think as well of him
afterwards? Yet it may be urged, that what a man has no right to ask,
you may refuse to communicate[936]; and there is no other effectual mode
of preserving a secret and an important secret, the discovery of which
may be very hurtful to you, but a flat denial; for if you are silent, or
hesitate, or evade, it will be held equivalent to a confession. But
stay, Sir; here is another case. Supposing the authour had told me
confidentially that he had written Junius, and I were asked if he had,
I should hold myself at liberty to deny it, as being under a previous
promise, express or implied, to conceal it. Now what I ought to do for
the authour, may I not do for myself? But I deny the lawfulness of
telling a lie to a sick man for fear of alarming him. You have no
business with consequences; you are to tell the truth. Besides, you are
not sure what effect your telling him that he is in danger may have. It
may bring his distemper to a crisis, and that may cure him. Of all
lying, I have the greatest abhorrence of this, because I believe it has
been frequently practised on myself.'

I cannot help thinking that there is much weight in the opinion of those who have held, that
Truth, as an eternal and immutable principle, ought, upon no account whatever, to be violated,
from supposed previous or superiour obligations, of which every man being to judge for himself,
there is great danger that we too often, from partial motives, persuade ourselves that they
exist; and probably whatever extraordinary instances may sometimes occur, where some evil may
be prevented by violating this noble principle, it would be found that human happiness would,
upon the whole, be more perfect were Truth universally preserved.

In the notes to the Dunciad[937], we find the following verses, addressed to Pope[938]:--

     'While malice, Pope, denies thy page
        Its own celestial fire;
      While criticks, and while bards in rage
        Admiring, won't admire:

      While wayward pens thy worth assail,
        And envious tongues decry;
      These times, though many a friend bewail,
        These times bewail not I.

      But when the world's loud praise is thine,
        And spleen no more shall blame;
      When with thy Homer thou shalt shine
        In one establish'd fame!

      When none shall rail, and every lay
        Devote a wreath to thee:
      That day (for come it will) that day
        Shall I lament to see.'

It is surely not a little remarkable, that they should appear without a name. Miss Seward[939],
knowing Dr. Johnson's almost universal and minute literary information, signified a desire
that I should ask him who was the authour. He was prompt with his answer: 'Why, Sir, they were
written by one Lewis, who was either under-master or an usher of Westminster-school, and published
a Miscellany, in which Grongar Hill[940] first came out[941].' Johnson praised them highly,
and repeated them with a noble animation. In the twelfth line, instead of 'one establish'd
fame,' he repeated 'one unclouded flame,' which he thought was the reading in former editions:
but I believe was a flash of his own genius. It is much more poetical than the other.

The Reverend Mr. Astle, of Ashbourne, in Derbyshire, brother to the learned and ingenious Thomas
Astle[957], Esq., was from his early years known to Dr. Johnson, who obligingly advised him
as to his studies, and recommended to him the following books, of which a list which he has
been pleased to communicate, lies before me in Johnson's own hand-writing:--

Universal History (ancient.)--Rollin's Ancient History.--Puffendorf's Introduction to History.--Vertot's
History of Knights of Malta.-- Vertot's Revolution of Portugal.--Vertot's Revolutions of Sweden.--
Carte's History of England.--Present State of England.--Geographical Grammar.--Prideaux's Connection.--Nelson's
Feasts and Fasts.--Duty of Man.--Gentleman's Religion.--Clarendon's History.--Watts's Improvement
of the Mind.--Watts's Logick.--Nature Displayed.--Lowth's English Grammar.--Blackwall on the
Classicks.--Sherlock's Sermons.--Burnet's Life of Hale.--Dupin's History of the Church.--Shuckford's
Connection.--Law's Serious Call.--Walton's Complete Angler.--Sandys's Travels.--Sprat's History
of the Royal Society.--England's Gazetteer.--Goldsmith's Roman History.--Some Commentaries
on the. Bible[958].

Johnson seldom encouraged general censure of any profession[964]; but he was willing to allow
a due share of merit to the various departments necessary in civilised life. In a splenetick,
sarcastical, or jocular frame, however, he would sometimes utter a pointed saying of that nature.
One instance has been mentioned[965], where he gave a sudden satirical stroke to the character
of an attorney. The too indiscriminate admission to that employment, which requires both abilities
and integrity, has given rise to injurious reflections, which are totally inapplicable to many
very respectable men who exercise it with reputation and honour. 'An authour's language, Sir,
(said he,) is a characteristical part of his composition, and is also characteristical of the
age in which he writes. Besides, Sir, when the language is changed we are not sure that the
sense is the same. No, Sir; I am sorry Lord Hailes has done this.'

Here it may be observed, that his frequent use of the expression, No, Sir, was not always to
intimate contradiction; for he would say so, when he was about to enforce an affirmative proposition
which had not been denied, as in the instance last mentioned. I used to consider it as a kind
of flag of defiance; as if he had said, 'Any argument you may offer against this, is not just.

Had Johnson treated at large De Claris Oratoribus[977], he might have given us an admirable
work. When the Duke of Bedford attacked the ministry as vehemently as he could, for having
taken upon them to extend the time for the importation of corn[978], Lord Chatham, in his first
speech in the House of Lords, boldly avowed himself to be an adviser of that measure. 'My colleagues,
(said he,) as I was confined by indisposition, did me the signal honour of coming to the bed-side
of a sick man, to ask his opinion. But, had they not thus condescended, I should have taken
up my bed and walked, in order to have delivered that opinion at the Council-Board.' Mr. Langton,
who was present, mentioned this to Johnson, who observed, 'Now, Sir, we see that he took these
words as he found them; without considering, that though the expression in Scripture, take
up thy bed and walk[979], strictly suited the instance of the sick man restored to health and
strength, who would of course be supposed to carry his bed with him, it could not be proper
in the case of a man who was lying in a state of feebleness, and who certainly would not add
to the difficulty of moving at all, that of carrying his bed.'

When I pointed out to him in the newspaper one of Mr. Grattan's animated and glowing speeches,
in favour of the freedom of Ireland, in which this expression occurred (I know not if accurately
taken): 'We will persevere, till there is not one link of the English chain left to clank upon
the rags of the meanest beggar in Ireland;' 'Nay, Sir, (said Johnson,) don't you perceive that
one link cannot clank?'

Mrs. Thrale has published[980], as Johnson's, a kind of parody or counterpart of a fine poetical
passage in one of Mr. Burke's speeches on American Taxation. It is vigorously but somewhat
coarsely executed; and I am inclined to suppose, is not quite correctly exhibited. I hope he
did not use the words 'vile agents' for the Americans in the House of Parliament; and if he
did so, in an extempore effusion, I wish the lady had not committed it to writing[981].

He was very constant to those whom he once employed, if they gave him no reason to be displeased.
When somebody talked of being imposed on in the purchase of tea and sugar, and such articles:
'That will not be the case, (said he,) if you go to a stately shop, as I always do. Feeling
a proper compunction in her last moments, she confessed how much she had secreted; but before
she could tell where it was placed, she was seized with a convulsive fit and expired. Her husband
said, he was more hurt by her want of confidence in him, than by the loss of his money.

He thought Mr. Caleb Whitefoord singularly happy in hitting on the signature of Papyrius Cursor,
to his ingenious and diverting cross-readings of the newspapers; it being a real name of an
ancient Roman, and clearly expressive of the thing done in this lively conceit[996].

An authour of considerable eminence[998] having engrossed a good share of the conversation
in the company of Johnson, and having said nothing but what was trifling and insignificant;
Johnson when he was gone, observed to us, 'It is wonderful what a difference there sometimes
is between a man's powers of writing and of talking. But he has been pleased to favour me with
the following, which are original:--

'One evening, previous to the trial of Barretti[1002], a consultation of his friends was held
at the house of Mr. Cox, the Solicitor, in Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. Among others
present were, Mr. Burke and Dr. Johnson, who differed in sentiments concerning the tendency
of some part of the defence the prisoner was to make. When the meeting was over, Mr. Steevens
observed, that the question between him and his friend had been agitated with rather too much
warmth. "It may be so, Sir, (replied the Doctor,) for Burke and I should have been of one opinion,
if we had had no audience[1003]." Could the many bounties he studiously concealed, the many
acts of humanity he performed in private, be displayed with equal circumstantiality, his defects
would be so far lost in the blaze of his virtues, that the latter only would be regarded.'

Though from my very high admiration of Johnson, I have wondered[1007] that he was not courted
by all the great and all the eminent persons of his time, it ought fairly to be considered,
that no man of humble birth, who lived entirely by literature, in short no authour by profession,
ever rose in this country into that personal notice which he did. When I am to meet with him
I should wish to know a day before[1013]'.

On Wednesday, June 23, I visited him in the morning, after having been present at the shocking
sight of fifteen men executed before Newgate[1015]. I said to him, I was sure that human life
was not machinery, that is to say, a chain of fatality planned and directed by the Supreme
Being, as it had in it so much wickedness and misery, so many instances of both, as that by
which my mind was now clouded. Were it machinery it would be better than it is in these respects,
though less noble, as not being a system of moral government. He agreed with me now, as he
always did[1016], upon the great question of the liberty of the human will, which has been
in all ages perplexed with so much sophistry. 'But, Sir, as to the doctrine of Necessity, no
man believes it. If a man should give me arguments that I do not see, though I could not answer
them, should I believe that I do not see?' It will be observed, that Johnson at all times made
the just distinction between doctrines contrary to reason, and doctrines above reason.

Talking of the religious discipline proper for unhappy convicts, he said, 'Sir, one of our
regular clergy will probably not impress their minds sufficiently: they should be attended
by a Methodist preacher[1017]; or a Popish priest.' Let me however observe, in justice to the
Reverend Mr. Vilette, who has been Ordinary of Newgate for no less than eighteen years, in
the course of which he has attended many hundreds of wretched criminals, that his earnest and
humane exhortations have been very effectual. His extraordinary diligence is highly praiseworthy,
and merits a distinguished reward[1018]. Though I have neglected to preserve his conversation,
it was perhaps at this interview that Dr. Knox formed the notion of it which he has exhibited
in his Winter Evenings[1020]. 'I know (said he,) Harte was your Lordship's tutor, and he was
also tutor to the Peterborough family. Pray, my Lord, do you recollect any particulars that
he told you of Lord Peterborough? He is a favourite of mine, and is not enough known; his character
has been only ventilated in party pamphlets[1030].' Lord Eliot said, if Dr. Johnson would be
so good as to ask him any questions, he would tell what he could recollect. Accordingly some
things were mentioned. 'But, (said his Lordship,) the best account of Lord Peterborough that
I have happened to meet with, is in Captain Carleton's Memoirs. Carleton was descended of an
ancestor who had distinguished himself at the siege of Derry[1031]. He was an officer; and,
what was rare at that time, had some knowledge of engineering[1032].' Johnson said, he had
never heard of the book. Lord Eliot had it at Port Eliot; but, after a good deal of enquiry,
procured a copy in London, and sent it to Johnson, who told Sir Joshua Reynolds that he was
going to bed when it came, but was so much pleased with it, that he sat up till he had read
it through[1033], and found in it such an air of truth, that he could not doubt of its authenticity[1034];
adding, with a smile, (in allusion to Lord Eliot's having recently been raised to the peerage,)
'I did not think a young Lord could have mentioned to me a book in the English history that
was not known to me[1035].'

An addition to our company came after we went up to the drawing-room; Dr. Johnson seemed to
rise in spirits as his audience increased. He said, 'He wished Lord Orford's pictures[1036],
and Sir Ashton Lever's Museum[1037], might be purchased by the publick, because both the money,
and the pictures, and the curiosities, would remain in the country; whereas, if they were sold
into another kingdom, the nation would indeed get some money, but would lose the pictures and
curiosities, which it would be desirable we should have, for improvement in taste and natural
history. The only question was, as the nation was much in want of money, whether it would not
be better to take a large price from a foreign State?'

He entered upon a curious discussion of the difference between intuition and sagacity; one
being immediate in its effect, the other requiring a circuitous process; one he observed was
the eye of the mind, the other the nose of the mind[1038]. Her words are,--

'Veneration for his virtue, reverence for his talents, delight in his conversation, and habitual
endurance of a yoke my husband first put upon me, and of which he contentedly bore his share
for sixteen or seventeen years, made me go on so long with Mr. Johnson; but the perpetual confinement
I will own to have been terrifying in the first years of our friendship, and irksome in the
last; nor could I pretend to support it without help, when my coadjutor was no more[1048].'

Alas! how different is this from the declarations which I have heard Mrs. Thrale make in his
life-time, without a single murmur against any peculiarities, or against any one circumstance
which attended their intimacy[1049].

As a sincere friend of the great man whose Life I am writing, I think it necessary to guard
my readers against the mistaken notion of Dr. Johnson's character, which this lady's Anecdotes
of him suggest; for from the very nature and form of her book, 'it lends deception lighter
wings to fly'.[1050]

'Let it be remembered, (says an eminent critick[1051],) that she has comprised in a small volume
all that she could recollect of Dr. Johnson in twenty years, during which period, doubtless,
some severe things were said by him; and they who read the book in two hours, naturally enough
suppose that his whole conversation was of this complexion. But the fact is, I have been often
in his company, and never once heard him say a severe thing to any one; and many others can
attest the same[1052]. When he did say a severe thing, it was generally extorted by ignorance
pretending to knowledge, or by extreme vanity or affectation.

'Two instances of inaccuracy, (adds he,) are peculiarly worthy of notice:

'It is said, "That natural[1053] roughness of his manner so often mentioned, would, notwithstanding
the regularity of his notions, burst through them all from time to time; and he once bade a
very celebrated lady, who praised him with too much zeal perhaps, or perhaps too strong an
emphasis, (which always offended him,) consider what her flattery was worth, before she choaked
him with it."

'Now let the genuine anecdote be contrasted with this. The person thus represented as being
harshly treated, though a very celebrated lady[1054], was then just come to London from an
obscure situation in the country. At Sir Joshua Reynolds's one evening, she met Dr. Johnson.
She very soon began to pay her court to him in the most fulsome strain. "Spare me, I beseech
you, dear Madam," was his reply. She still laid it on. "Pray, Madam, let us have no more of
this;" he rejoined. Not paying any attention to these warnings, she continued still her eulogy.
At length, provoked by this indelicate and vain obtrusion of compliment, he exclaimed, "Dearest
lady, consider with yourself what your flattery is worth, before you bestow it so freely[1055]."

'How different does this story appear, when accompanied with all these circumstances which
really belong to it, but which Mrs. Thrale either did not know, or has suppressed.

'She says, in another place[1056], "One gentleman, however, who dined at a nobleman's house
in his company, and that of Mr. Thrale, to whom I was obliged for the anecdote, was willing
to enter the lists in defence of King William's character; and having opposed and contradicted
Johnson two or three times, petulantly enough, the master of the house began to feel uneasy,
and expect disagreeable consequences; to avoid which, he said, loud enough for the Doctor to
hear,--'Our friend here has no meaning now in all this, except just to relate at club to-morrow
how he teized Johnson at dinner to-day; this is all to do himself honour.' No, upon my word,
(replied the other,') I see no honour in it, whatever you may do. Well, Sir, (returned Mr.
Johnson, sternly,) if you do not see the honour, I am sure I feel the disgrace."

'This is all sophisticated. Mr. Thrale was not in the company, though he might have related
the story to Mrs. Thrale. A friend, from whom I had the story, was present; and it was not
at the house of a nobleman. On the observation being made by the master of the house on a gentleman's
contradicting Johnson, that he had talked for the honour, &c., the gentleman muttered in a
low voice, "I see no honour in it;" and Dr. Johnson said nothing: so all the rest, (though
bien trouvée) is mere garnish.'

I have had occasion several times, in the course of this work, to point out the incorrectness
of Mrs. Thrale, as to particulars which consisted with my own knowledge[1057]. But indeed she
has, in flippant terms enough, expressed her disapprobation of that anxious desire of authenticity
which prompts a person who is to record conversations, to write them down at the moment[1058].
Unquestionably, if they are to be recorded at all, the sooner it is done the better. This lady
herself says[1059],--

'To recollect, however, and to repeat the sayings of Dr. Johnson, is almost all that can be
done by the writers of his Life; as his life, at least since my acquaintance with him, consisted
in little else than talking, when he was not [absolutely] employed in some serious piece of work.'

She boasts of her having kept a common-place book[1060]; and we find she noted, at one time
or other, in a very lively manner, specimens of the conversation of Dr. Johnson, and of those
who talked with him; but had she done it recently, they probably would have been less erroneous;
and we should have been relieved from those disagreeable doubts of their authenticity, with
which we must now peruse them.

She says of him[1061],--

'He was the most charitable of mortals, without being what we call an active friend. Admirable
at giving counsel; no man saw his way so clearly; but he would not stir a finger for the assistance
of those to whom he was willing enough to give advice.' And again on the same page, 'If you
wanted a slight favour, you must apply to people of other dispositions; for not a step would
Johnson move to obtain a man a vote in a society, to repay a compliment which might be useful
or pleasing, to write a letter of request, &c., or to obtain a hundred pounds a year more for
a friend who, perhaps, had already two or three. No force could urge him to diligence, no importunity
could conquer his resolution to stand still.'

It is amazing that one who had such opportunities of knowing Dr. Johnson, should appear so
little acquainted with his real character. I am sorry this lady does not advert, that she herself
contradicts the assertion of his being obstinately defective in the petites morales, in the
little endearing charities of social life, in conferring smaller favours; for she says[1062],--

'Dr. Johnson was liberal enough in granting literary assistance to others, I think; and innumerable
are the Prefaces, Sermons, Lectures, and Dedications which he used to make for people who begged
of him.'

I am certain that a more active friend has rarely been found in any age[1063]. This work, which
I fondly hope will rescue his memory from obloquy, contains a thousand instances of his benevolent
exertions in almost every way that can be conceived; and particularly in employing his pen
with a generous readiness for those to whom its aid could be useful. Indeed his obliging activity
in doing little offices of kindness, both by letters and personal application, was one of the
most remarkable features in his character; and for the truth of this I can appeal to a number
of his respectable friends: Sir Joshua Reynolds, Mr. Langton, Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Burke, Mr.
Windham, Mr. Malone, the Bishop of Dromore, Sir William Scott, Sir Robert Chambers. And can
Mrs. Thrale forget the advertisements which he wrote for her husband at the time of his election
contest[1064]; the epitaphs on him and her mother[1065]; the playful and even trifling verses,
for the amusement of her and her daughters; his corresponding with her children[1066], and
entering into their minute concerns[1067], which shews him in the most amiable light? She relates[1068],--

That Mr. Ch-lm-ley unexpectedly rode up to Mr. Thrale's carriage, in which Mr. Thrale and she,
and Dr. Johnson were travelling; that he paid them all his proper compliments, but observing
that Dr. Johnson, who was reading, did not see him, 'tapt him gently on the shoulder. "'Tis
Mr. Ch-lm-ley;" says my husband. "Well, Sir--and what if it is Mr. Ch-lm-ley;" says the other,
sternly, just lifting his eyes a moment from his book, and returning to it again, with renewed
avidity.'

This surely conveys a notion of Johnson, as if he had been grossly rude to Mr. Cholmondeley[1069],
a gentleman whom he always loved and esteemed. If, therefore, there was an absolute necessity
for mentioning the story at all, it might have been thought that her tenderness for Dr. Johnson's
character would have disposed her to state any thing that could soften it. Why then is there
a total silence as to what Mr. Cholmondeley told her?--that Johnson, who had known him from
his earliest years, having been made sensible of what had doubtless a strange appearance, took
occasion, when he afterwards met him, to make a very courteous and kind apology. There is another
little circumstance which I cannot but remark. Her book was published in 1785, she had then
in her possession a letter from Dr. Johnson, dated in 1777[1070], which begins thus:--'Cholmondeley's
story shocks me, if it be true, which I can hardly think, for I am utterly unconscious of it:
I am very sorry, and very much ashamed[1071].' Why then publish the anecdote? Or if she did,
why not add the circumstances, with which she was well acquainted!

In his social intercourse she thus describes him[1072]:--

'Ever musing till he was called out to converse, and conversing till the fatigue of his friends,
or the promptitude of his own temper to take offence, consigned him back again to silent meditation.'

Yet, in the same book[1073], she tells us,--

'He was, however, seldom inclined to be silent, when any moral or literary question was started;
and it was on such occasions that, like the Sage in "Rasselas[1074]," he spoke, and attention
watched his lips; he reasoned, and conviction closed his periods.'

His conversation, indeed, was so far from ever fatiguing his friends, that they regretted when
it was interrupted, or ceased, and could exclaim in Milton's language,--

'With thee conversing, I forget all time[1075].'

I certainly, then, do not claim too much in behalf of my illustrious friend in saying, that
however smart and entertaining Mrs. Thrale's Anecdotes are, they must not be held as good evidence
against him; for wherever an instance of harshness and severity is told, I beg leave to doubt
its perfect authenticity; for though there may have been some foundation for it, yet, like
that of his reproof to the 'very celebrated lady,' it may be so exhibited in the narration
as to be very unlike the real fact.

The evident tendency of the following anecdote[1076] is to represent Dr. Johnson as extremely
deficient in affection, tenderness, or even common civility:--

'When I one day lamented the loss of a first cousin killed in America,--"Prithee, my dear,
(said he,) have done with canting; how would the world be the worse for it, I may ask, if all
your relations were at once spitted like larks, and roasted for Presto's supper?"--Presto[1077]
was the dog that lay under the table while we talked.'

I suspect this too of exaggeration and distortion. I allow that he made her an angry speech;
but let the circumstances fairly appear, as told by Mr. Baretti, who was present:--

'Mrs. Thrale, while supping very heartily upon larks, laid down her knife and fork, and abruptly
exclaimed, "O, my dear Mr. Johnson, do you know what has happened? The last letters from abroad
have brought us an account that our poor cousin's head was taken off by a cannon-ball." Johnson,
who was shocked both at the fact, and her light unfeeling manner of mentioning it, replied,
"Madam, it would give you very little concern if all your relations were spitted like those
larks, and drest for Presto's supper[1078]."'

It is with concern that I find myself obliged to animadvert on the inaccuracies of Mrs. Piozzi's
Anecdotes, and perhaps I may be thought to have dwelt too long upon her little collection.
But as from Johnson's long residence under Mr. Thrale's roof, and his intimacy with her, the
account which she has given of him may have made an unfavourable and unjust impression, my
duty, as a faithful biographer, has obliged me reluctantly to perform this unpleasing task.
Do for me what you can.'

He wrote to me July 26:--

'I wish your affairs could have permitted a longer and continued exertion of your zeal and
kindness. They that have your kindness may want your ardour. The condition on which you have
my consent to settle in London is, that your expence never exceeds your annual income. Fixing
this basis of security, you cannot be hurt, and you may be very much advanced. The loss of
your Scottish business, which is all that you can lose, is not to be reckoned as any equivalent
to the hopes and possibilities that open here upon you. JOHNSON[1090].'

'July 12, 1784.'

On the same day he wrote to Mr. Langton:--

'I cannot but think that in my languid and anxious state, I have some reason to complain that
I receive from you neither enquiry nor consolation. You know how much I value your friendship,
and with what confidence I expect your kindness, if I wanted any act of tenderness that you
could perform; at least, if you do not know it, I think your ignorance is your own fault. Yet
how long is it that I have lived almost in your neighbourhood without the least notice. I do
not, however, consider this neglect as particularly shown to me; I hear two of your most valuable
friends make the same complaint. But why are all thus overlooked? You are not oppressed by
sickness, you are not distracted by business; if you are sick, you are sick of leisure:--And
allow yourself to be told, that no disease is more to be dreaded or avoided. Rather to do nothing
than to do good, is the lowest state of a degraded mind. Boileau says to his pupil,

     'Que les vers ne soient pas votre éternel emploi,
      Cultivez vos amis[1091].'--

That voluntary debility, which modern language is content to term indolence, will, if it is
not counteracted by resolution, render in time the strongest faculties lifeless, and turn the
flame to the smoke of virtue. I do not expect nor desire to see you, because I am much pleased
to find that your mother stays so long with you, and I should think you neither elegant nor
grateful, if you did not study her gratification. You will pay my respects to both the ladies,
and to all the young people. The journey of the first day was performed with very little sense
of fatigue; the second day brought me to Lichfield, without much lassitude; but I am afraid
that I could not have borne such violent agitation for many days together. Tell Dr. Heberden,
that in the coach I read Ciceronianus which I concluded as I entered Lichfield. My affection
and understanding went along with Erasmus, except that once or twice he somewhat unskilfully
entangles Cicero's civil or moral, with his rhetorical, character. I staid five days at Lichfield,
but, being unable to walk, had no great pleasure, and yesterday (19th) I came hither, where
I am to try what air and attention can perform. Of any improvement in my health I cannot yet
please myself with the perception.--The asthma has no abatement. Opiates stop the fit, so as
that I can sit and sometimes lie easy, but they do not now procure me the power of motion;
and I am afraid that my general strength of body does not encrease. The weather indeed is not
benign; but how low is he sunk whose strength depends upon the weather[1093]! I am now looking
into Floyer[1094] who lived with his asthma to almost his ninetieth year. His book by want
of order is obscure, and his asthma, I think, not of the same kind with mine. Something however
I may perhaps learn. My appetite still continues keen enough; and what I consider as a symptom
of radical health, I have a voracious delight in raw summer fruit, of which I was less eager
a few years ago[1095]. You will be pleased to communicate this account to Dr. Heberden, and
if any thing is to be done, let me have your joint opinion. Now--abite curoe;--let me enquire
after the Club[1096].'

July 31. 'Not recollecting that Dr. Heberden might be at Windsor, I thought your letter long
in coming. But, you know, nocitura petuntur[1097], the letter which I so much desired, tells
me that I have lost one of my best and tenderest friends[1098]. My comfort is, that he appeared
to live like a man that had always before his eyes the fragility of our present existence,
and was therefore, I hope, not unprepared to meet his judge. Your attention, dear Sir, and
that of Dr. Heberden, to my health, is extremely kind. I am loth to think that I grow worse;
and cannot fairly prove even to my own partiality, that I grow much better.'

August 5. 'I return you thanks, dear Sir, for your unwearied attention, both medicinal and
friendly, and hope to prove the effect of your care by living to acknowledge it.'

August 12[1099]. 'Pray be so kind as to have me in your thoughts, and mention my case to others
as you have opportunity. I seem to myself neither to gain nor lose strength. I have lately
tried milk, but have yet found no advantage, and am afraid of it merely as a liquid. My appetite
is still good, which I know is dear Dr. Heberden's criterion of the vis vitoe. As we cannot
now see each other, do not omit to write, for you cannot think with what warmth of expectation
I reckon the hours of a post-day.'

August 14. 'I have hitherto sent you only melancholy letters, you will be glad to hear some
better account. Yesterday the asthma remitted, perceptibly remitted, and I moved with more
ease than I have enjoyed for many weeks. May GOD continue his mercy. This account I would not
delay, because I am not a lover of complaints, or complainers, and yet I have since we parted
uttered nothing till now but terrour and sorrow. Write to me, dear Sir.'

August 16. 'Better I hope, and better. My respiration gets more and more ease and liberty.
I went to church yesterday, after a very liberal dinner, without any inconvenience; it is indeed
no long walk, but I never walked it without difficulty, since I came, before.--the intention
was only to overpower the seeming vis inertioe of the pectoral and pulmonary muscles. I am
favoured with a degree of ease that very much delights me, and do not despair of another race
upon the stairs of the Academy[1100]. If I were, however, of a humour to see, or to shew the
state of my body, on the dark side, I might say,

     "Quid te exempta juvat spinis de pluribus una[1101]?"

The nights are still sleepless, and the water rises, though it does not rise very fast. Let
us, however, rejoice in all the good that we have. The remission of one disease will enable
nature to combat the rest. The squills I have not neglected; for I have taken more than a hundred
drops a day, and one day took two hundred and fifty, which, according to the popular equivalence
of a drop to a grain, is more than half an ounce. I thank you, dear Sir, for your attention
in ordering the medicines; your attention to me has never failed. If the virtue of medicines
could be enforced by the benevolence of the prescriber, how soon should I be well.'

August 19. 'The relaxation of the asthma still continues, yet I do not trust it wholly to itself,
but soothe it now and then with an opiate. I not only perform the perpetual act of respiration
with less labour, but I can walk with fewer intervals of rest, and with greater freedom of
motion. I never thought well of Dr. James's compounded medicines[1102]; his ingredients appeared
to me sometimes inefficacious and trifling, and sometimes heterogeneous and destructive of
each other. This prescription exhibits a composition of about three hundred and thirty grains,
in which there are four grains of emetick tartar, and six drops [of] thebaick tincture. He
that writes thus, surely writes for show. The basis of his medicine is the gum ammoniacum,
which dear Dr. Lawrence used to give, but of which I never saw any effect. We will, if you
please, let this medicine alone. The squills have every suffrage, and in the squills we will
rest for the present.'

August 21. 'The kindness which you shew by having me in your thoughts upon all occasions, will,
I hope, always fill my heart with gratitude. Be pleased to return my thanks to Sir George Baker[1103],
for the consideration which he has bestowed upon me. Is this the balloon that has been so long
expected, this balloon to which I subscribed, but without payment[1104]? It is pity that philosophers
have been disappointed, and shame that they have been cheated; but I know not well how to prevent
either. Of this experiment I have read nothing; where was it exhibited? and who was the man
that ran away with so much money? Continue, dear Sir, to write often and more at a time; for
none of your prescriptions operate to their proper uses more certainly than your letters operate
as cordials.'

August 26. 'I suffered you to escape last post without a letter, but you are not to expect
such indulgence very often; for I write not so much because I have any thing to say, as because
I hope for an answer; and the vacancy of my life here makes a letter of great value. I have
here little company and little amusement, and thus abandoned to the contemplation of my own
miseries, I am sometimes gloomy and depressed; this too I resist as I can, and find opium,
I think, useful, but I seldom take more than one grain. Is not this strange weather? Winter
absorbed the spring, and now autumn is come before we have had summer. But let not our kindness
for each other imitate the inconstancy of the seasons.'

Sept. 2. 'Mr. Windham has been here to see me; he came, I think, forty miles out of his way,
and staid about a day and a half, perhaps I make the time shorter than it was. Such conversation
I shall not have again till I come back to the regions of literature; and there Windham is,
inter stellas[1105] Luna minores[1106].' He then mentions the effects of certain medicines,
as taken; that 'Nature is recovering its original powers, and the functions returning to their
proper state. 'I have now let you alone for a long time, having indeed little to say. You charge
me somewhat unjustly with luxury. At Chatsworth, you should remember, that I have eaten but
once; and the Doctor, with whom I live, follows a milk diet. I grow no fatter, though my stomach,
if it be not disturbed by physick, never fails me. I now grow weary of solitude, and think
of removing next week to Lichfield, a place of more society, but otherwise of less convenience.
When I am settled, I shall write again. Of the hot weather that you mention, we have [not]
had in Derbyshire very much, and for myself I seldom feel heat, and suppose that my frigidity
is the effect of my distemper; a supposition which naturally leads me to hope that a hotter
climate may be useful. But I hope to stand another English winter.'

Lichfield, Sept. 29. 'The fate of the balloon I do not much lament[1110]: to make new balloons,
is to repeat the jest again. We now know a method of mounting into the air, and, I think, are
not likely to know more. The vehicles can serve no use till we can guide them; and they can
gratify no curiosity till we mount with them to greater heights than we can reach without;
till we rise above the tops of the highest mountains, which we have yet not done. We know the
state of the air in all its regions, to the top of Teneriffe, and therefore, learn nothing
from those who navigate a balloon below the clouds. The first experiment, however, was bold,
and deserved applause and reward. 'Since I was here I have two little letters from you, and
have not had the gratitude to write. But every man is most free with his best friends, because
he does not suppose that they can suspect him of intentional incivility. One reason for my
omission is, that being in a place to which you are wholly a stranger, I have no topicks of
correspondence. If you had any knowledge of Ashbourne, I could tell you of two Ashbourne men,
who, being last week condemned at Derby to be hanged for a robbery, went and hanged themselves
in their cell[1113]. But this, however it may supply us with talk, is nothing to you. Your
kindness, I know, would make you glad to hear some good of me, but I have not much good to
tell; if I grow not worse, it is all that I can say. I hope Mrs. Hoole receives more help from
her migration. Make her my compliments, and write again to, dear Sir, your affectionate servant.'

Aug. 13. 'I thank you for your affectionate letter. I hope we shall both be the better for
each other's friendship, and I hope we shall not very quickly be parted. Tell Mr. Nicholls
that I shall be glad of his correspondence, when his business allows him a little remission;
though to wish him less business, that I may have more pleasure, would be too selfish. To pay
for seats at the balloon is not very necessary, because in less than a minute, they who gaze
at a mile's distance will see all that can be seen. About the wings[1114] I am of your mind;
they cannot at all assist it, nor I think regulate its motion. I am now grown somewhat easier
in my body, but my mind is sometimes depressed. About the Club I am in no great pain. The forfeitures
go on, and the house, I hear, is improved for our future meetings. I hope we shall meet often
and sit long.'

Sept. 4. 'Your letter was, indeed, long in coming, but it was very welcome. Our acquaintance
has now subsisted long[1115] and our recollection of each other involves a great space, and
many little occurrences, which melt the thoughts to tenderness. Write to me, therefore, as
frequently as you can. I hear from Dr. Brocklesby and Mr. Ryland, that the Club is not crouded.
I hope we shall enliven it when winter brings us together.'

To DR. BURNEY:--

August 2. I have lost dear Mr. Allen, and wherever I turn, the dead or the dying meet my notice,
and force my attention upon misery and mortality. Mrs. Burney's escape from so much danger,
and her ease after so much pain, throws, however, some radiance of hope upon the gloomy prospect.
May her recovery be perfect, and her continuance long. I struggle hard for life. I take physick,
and take air; my friend's chariot is always ready. We have run this morning twenty-four miles,
and could run forty-eight more. But who can run the race with death?'

'Sept. 4. [Concerning a private transaction, in which his opinion was asked, and after giving
it he makes the following reflections, which are applicable on other occasions.] Nothing deserves
more compassion than wrong conduct with good meaning; than loss or obloquy suffered by one
who, as he is conscious only of good intentions, wonders why he loses that kindness which he
wishes to preserve; and not knowing his own fault, if, as may sometimes happen, nobody will
tell him, goes on to offend by his endeavours to please. I am delighted by finding that our
opinions are the same. You will do me a real kindness by continuing to write. A post-day has
now been long a day of recreation.'

Nov. 1. 'Our correspondence paused for want of topicks. I had said what I had to say on the
matter proposed to my consideration; and nothing remained but to tell you, that I waked or
slept; that I was more or less sick. I drew my thoughts in upon myself, and supposed yours
employed upon your book. That your book[1117] has been delayed I am glad, since you have gained
an opportunity of being more exact. Of the caution necessary in adjusting narratives there
is no end. Some tell what they do not know, that they may not seem ignorant, and others from
mere indifference about truth. All truth is not, indeed, of equal importance; but, if little
violations are allowed, every violation will in time be thought little; and a writer should
keep himself vigilantly on his guard against the first temptations to negligence or supineness.
I had ceased to write, because respecting you I had no more to say, and respecting myself could
say little good. I cannot boast of advancement, and in cases of convalescence it may be said,
with few exceptions, non progredi, est regredi. I hope I may be excepted. My great difficulty
was with my sweet Fanny[1118], who, by her artifice of inserting her letter in yours, had given
me a precept of frugality[1119] which I was not at liberty to neglect; and I know not who were
in town under whose cover I could send my letter[1120]. I rejoice to hear that you are all
so well, and have a delight particularly sympathetick in the recovery of Mrs. Burney.'

To MR. LANGTON:--

Aug. 25. 'The kindness of your last letter, and my omission to answer it, begins to give you,
even in my opinion, a right to recriminate, and to charge me with forgetfulness for the absent.
I will, therefore, delay no longer to give an account of myself, and wish I could relate what
would please either myself or my friend. On July 13, I left London, partly in hope of help
from new air and change of place, and partly excited by the sick man's impatience of the present.
I got to Lichfield in a stage vehicle, with very little fatigue, in two days, and had the consolation[1121]
to find, that since my last visit my three old acquaintance are all dead. July 20, I went to
Ashbourne, where I have been till now; the house in which we live is repairing. I live in too
much solitude, and am often deeply dejected: I wish we were nearer, and rejoice in your removal
to London. A friend, at once cheerful and serious, is a great acquisition. Let us not neglect
one another for the little time which Providence allows us to hope. Of my health I cannot tell
you, what my wishes persuaded me to expect, that it is much improved by the season or by remedies.
I am sleepless; my legs grow weary with a very few steps, and the water breaks its boundaries
in some degree. The asthma, however, has remitted; my breath is still much obstructed, but
is more free than it was. Nights of watchfulness produce torpid days; I read very little, though
I am alone; for I am tempted to supply in the day what I lost in bed. This is my history; like
all other histories, a narrative of misery. Yet am I so much better than in the beginning of
the year, that I ought to be ashamed of complaining. I now sit and write with very little sensibility
of pain or weakness; but when I rise, I shall find my legs betraying me. Of the money which
you mentioned, I have no immediate need; keep it, however, for me, unless some exigence requires
it. Your papers I will shew you certainly when you would see them, but I am a little angry
at you for not keeping minutes of your own acceptum et expensum[1122], and think a little time
might be spared from Aristophanes, for the res familiares. Forgive me for I mean well. I hope,
dear Sir, that you and Lady Rothes, and all the young people, too many to enumerate, are well
and happy. GOD bless you all.'

To MR. WINDHAM:--

August. 'The tenderness with which you have been pleased to treat me, through my long illness,
neither health nor sickness can, I hope, make me forget; and you are not to suppose, that after
we parted you were no longer in my mind. But what can a sick man say, but that he is sick?
His thoughts are necessarily concentered in himself; he neither receives nor can give delight;
his enquiries are after alleviations of pain, and his efforts are to catch some momentary comfort.
Though I am now in the neighbourhood of the Peak, you must expect no account of its wonders,
of its hills, its waters, its caverns, or its mines; but I will tell you, dear Sir, what I
hope you will not hear with less satisfaction, that, for about a week past, my asthma has been
less afflictive.'

Lichfield. October 2[1123]. 'I believe you have been long enough acquainted with the phoenomena
of sickness, not to be surprised that a sick man wishes to be where he is not, and where it
appears to every body but himself that he might easily be, without having the resolution to
remove. I thought Ashbourne a solitary place, but did not come hither till last Monday. I have
here more company, but my health has for this last week not advanced; and in the languor of
disease how little can be done? Whither or when I shall make my next remove I cannot tell;
but I entreat you, dear Sir, to let me know, from time to time, where you may be found, for
your residence is a very powerful attractive to, Sir, your most humble servant.'

'To MR. PERKINS. 'DEAR SIR,

'I cannot but flatter myself that your kindness for me will make you glad to know where I am,
and in what state.

'I have been struggling very hard with my diseases. My breath has been very much obstructed,
and the water has attempted to encroach upon me again. I past the first part of the summer
at Oxford, afterwards I went to Lichfield, thence to Ashbourne, in Derbyshire, and a week ago
I returned to Lichfield.

'My breath is now much easier, and the water is in a great measure run away, so that I hope
to see you again before winter.

'Please to make my compliments to Mrs. Perkins, and to Mr. and Mrs. Barclay. 'DEAR SIR,

'Considering what reason[1124] you gave me in the spring to conclude that you took part in
whatever good or evil might befal me, I ought not to have omitted so long the account which
I am now about to give you. My diseases are an asthma and a dropsy, and, what is less curable,
seventy-five. Of the dropsy, in the beginning of the summer, or in the spring, I recovered
to a degree which struck with wonder both me and my physicians: the asthma now is likewise,
for a time, very much relieved. I went to Oxford, where the asthma was very tyrannical, and
the dropsy began again to threaten me; but seasonable physick stopped the inundation: I then
returned to London, and in July took a resolution to visit Staffordshire and Derbyshire, where
I am yet struggling with my diseases. The dropsy made another attack, and was not easily ejected,
but at last gave way. The asthma suddenly remitted in bed, on the 13th of August, and, though
now very oppressive, is, I think, still something gentler than it was before the remission.
My limbs are miserably debilitated, and my nights are sleepless and tedious. When you read
this, dear Sir, you are not sorry that I wrote no sooner. I will not prolong my complaints.
I hope still to see you in a happier hour[1125], to talk over what we have often talked, and
perhaps to find new topicks of merriment, or new incitements to curiosity. I am, dear Sir,
&c. SAM. JOHNSON. Lichfield, Oct. 20, 1784.'

'TO JOHN PARADISE, ESQ.[1126]

DEAR SIR,

Though in all my summer's excursion I have given you no account of myself, I hope you think
better of me than to imagine it possible for me to forget you, whose kindness to me has been
too great and too constant not to have made its impression on a harder breast than mine. Silence
is not very culpable when nothing pleasing is suppressed. It would have alleviated none of
your complaints to have read my vicissitudes of evil. I have struggled hard with very formidable
and obstinate maladies; and though I cannot talk of health, think all praise due to my Creator
and Preserver for the continuance of my life. The dropsy has made two attacks, and has given
way to medicine; the asthma is very oppressive, but that has likewise once remitted. I am very
weak, and very sleepless; but it is time to conclude the tale of misery. I hope, dear Sir,
that you grow better, for you have likewise your share of human evil, and that your lady and
the young charmers are well.

'Dear Sir, 'Since we parted, I have been much oppressed by my asthma, but it has lately been
less laborious. When I sit I am almost at ease, and I can walk, though yet very little, with
less difficulty for this week past, than before. I hope I shall again enjoy my friends, and
that you and I shall have a little more literary conversation. Where I now am, every thing
is very liberally provided for me but conversation. My friend is sick himself, and the reciprocation
of complaints and groans affords not much of either pleasure or instruction. What we have not
at home this town does not supply, and I shall be glad of a little imported intelligence, and
hope that you will bestow, now and then, a little time on the relief and entertainment of,
Sir, 'Yours, &c. 'Sam. Johnson.'

'Ashbourne, Aug. 19, 1784.'

'To Mr. Cruikshank.

'Dear Sir,

'Do not suppose that I forget you; I hope I shall never be accused of forgetting my benefactors[1128].
I had, till lately, nothing to write but complaints upon complaints, of miseries upon miseries;
but within this fortnight I have received great relief. Have your Lectures any vacation? If
you are released from the necessity of daily study, you may find time for a letter to me. [In
this letter he states the particulars of his case.] In return for this account of my health,
let me have a good account of yours, and of your prosperity in all your undertakings.

'I am, dear Sir, yours, &c. 'Sam. Johnson.' 'Ashbourne, Sept. 4, 1784.'

To Mr. Thomas Davies:--

August 14. 'The tenderness with which you always treat me, makes me culpable in my own eyes
for having omitted to write in so long a separation; I had, indeed, nothing to say that you
could wish to hear. All has been hitherto misery accumulated upon misery, disease corroborating
disease, till yesterday my asthma was perceptibly and unexpectedly mitigated. I am much comforted
with this short relief, and am willing to flatter myself that it may continue and improve.
I have at present, such a degree of ease, as not only may admit the comforts, but the duties
of life. Make my compliments to Mrs. Davies. Poor dear Allen, he was a good man.'

To SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS:--

Ashbourne, July 21. 'The tenderness with which I am treated by my friends, makes it reasonable
to suppose that they are desirous to know the state of my health, and a desire so benevolent
ought to be gratified. I came to Lichfield in two days without any painful fatigue, and on
Monday came hither, where I purpose to stay: and try what air and regularity will effect. I
cannot yet persuade myself that I have made much progress in recovery. My sleep is little,
my breath is very much encumbered, and my legs are very weak. The water has encreased a little,
but has again run off. The most distressing symptom is want of sleep.'

August 19. 'Having had since our separation, little to say that could please you or myself
by saying, I have not been lavish of useless letters; but I flatter myself that you will partake
of the pleasure with which I can now tell you that about a week ago, I felt suddenly a sensible
remission of my asthma, and consequently a greater lightness of action and motion. Of this
grateful alleviation I know not the cause, nor dare depend upon its continuance, but while
it lasts I endeavour to enjoy it, and am desirous of communicating, while it lasts, my pleasure
to my friends. Hitherto, dear Sir, I had written before the post, which stays in this town
but a little while, brought me your letter. Mr. Davies seems to have represented my little
tendency to recovery in terms too splendid. I am still restless, still weak, still watery,
but the asthma is less oppressive. Poor Ramsay[1129]! On which side soever I turn, mortality
presents its formidable frown. I left three old friends at Lichfield when I was last there,
and now found them all dead. I no sooner lose sight of dear Allen, than I am told that I shall
see him no more. That we must all die, we always knew; I wish I had sooner remembered it. Do
not think me intrusive or importunate, if I now call, dear Sir, on you to remember it.'

Sept. 2. 'I am glad that a little favour from the court has intercepted your furious purposes[1130].
I could not in any case have approved such publick violence of resentment, and should have
considered any who encouraged it, as rather seeking sport for themselves, than honour for you.
Resentment gratifies him who intended an injury, and pains him unjustly who did not intend
it. But all this is now superfluous. My last letter told you of my advance in health, which,
I think, in the whole still continues. Of the hydropick tumour there is now very little appearance;
the asthma is much less troublesome, and seems to remit something day after day. 'I flattered
myself that this week would have given me a letter from you, but none has come. Write to me
now and then, but direct your next to Lichfield. I think, and I hope, am sure, that I still
grow better; I have sometimes good nights; but am still in my legs weak, but so much mended,
that I go to Lichfield in hope of being able to pay my visits on foot, for there are no coaches.
I have three letters this day, all about the balloon, I could have been content with one. Do
not write about the balloon, whatever else you may think proper to say[1134].'

October 2. 'I am always proud of your approbation, and therefore was much pleased that you
liked my letter. When you copied it[1135], you invaded the Chancellor's right rather than mine.
The refusal I did not expect, but I had never thought much about it, for I doubted whether
the Chancellor had so much tenderness for me as to ask. He, being keeper of the King's conscience,
ought not to be supposed capable of an improper petition. All is not gold that glitters, as
we have often been told; and the adage is verified in your place[1136] and my favour; but if
what happens does not make us richer, we must bid it welcome, if it makes us wiser. I do not
at present grow better, nor much worse; my hopes, however, are somewhat abated, and a very
great loss is the loss of hope, but I struggle on as I can.'

TO MR. JOHN NICHOLS:--

Lichfield, Oct. 20. 'When you were here, you were pleased, as I am told, to think my absence
an inconvenience. I should certainly have been very glad to give so skilful a lover of antiquities
any information about my native place, of which, however, I know not much, and have reason
to believe that not much is known. Though I have not given you any amusement, I have received
amusement from you. At Ashbourne, where I had very little company, I had the luck to borrow
Mr. Bowyer's Life[1137]; a book so full of contemporary history, that a literary man must find
some of his old friends. I thought that I could, now and then, have told you some hints[1138]
worth your notice; and perhaps we may talk a life over. I hope we shall be much together; you
must now be to me what you were before, and what dear Mr. Allen was, besides. He was taken
unexpectedly away, but I think he was a very good man. I have made little progress in recovery.
I am very weak, and very sleepless; but I live on and hope[1139].'

This various mass of correspondence, which I have thus brought together, is valuable, both
as an addition to the store which the publick already has of Johnson's writings, and as exhibiting
a genuine and noble specimen of vigour and vivacity of mind, which neither age nor sickness
could impair or diminish.

While in the country, notwithstanding the accumulation of illness which he endured, his mind
did not lose its powers. He translated an Ode of Horace[1141], which is printed in his Works,
and composed several prayers. I shall insert one of them, which is so wise and energetick,
so philosophical and so pious, that I doubt not of its affording consolation to many a sincere
Christian, when in a state of mind to which I believe the best are sometimes liable[1142].

And here I am enabled fully to refute a very unjust reflection, by Sir John Hawkins[1143],
both against Dr. Johnson, and his faithful servant, Mr. Francis Barber[1144]; as if both of
them had been guilty of culpable neglect towards a person of the name of Heely, whom Sir John
chooses to call a relation of Dr. Johnson's. The fact is, that Mr. Heely was not his relation;
he had indeed been married to one of his cousins, but she had died without having children,
and he had married another woman; so that even the slight connection which there once had been
by alliance was dissolved. Dr. Johnson, who had shewn very great liberality to this man while
his first wife was alive, as has appeared in a former part of this work[1145], was humane and
charitable enough to continue his bounty to him occasionally; but surely there was no strong
call of duty upon him or upon his legatee, to do more. The following letter, obligingly communicated
to me by Mr. Andrew Strahan, will confirm what I have stated:--

'TO MR. HEELY, No. 5, IN PYE-STREET, WESTMINSTER.

'SIR,

'As necessity obliges you to call so soon again upon me, you should at least have told the
smallest sum that will supply your present want; you cannot suppose that I have much to spare.
Two guineas is as much as you ought to be behind with your creditor. If you wait on Mr. Strahan,
in New-street, Fetter-lane, or in his absence, on Mr. Andrew Strahan, shew this, by which they
are entreated to advance you two guineas, and to keep this as a voucher.

'I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Ashbourne, Aug. 12, 1784.'

Indeed it is very necessary to keep in mind that Sir John Hawkins has unaccountably viewed
Johnson's character and conduct in almost every particular, with an unhappy prejudice[1146].
We had much serious talk together, for which I ought to be the better as long as I live. You
will remember some discourse which we had in the summer upon the subject of prayer, and the
difficulty of this sort of composition[1162]. He reminded me of this, and of my having wished
him to try his hand, and to give us a specimen of the style and manner that he approved. He
added, that he was now in a right frame of mind, and as he could not possibly employ his time
better, he would in earnest set about it. But I find upon enquiry, that no papers of this sort
were left behind him, except a few short ejaculatory forms suitable to his present situation.'

Dr. Adams had not then received accurate information on this subject; for it has since appeared
that various prayers had been composed by him at different periods, which, intermingled with
pious resolutions, and some short notes of his life, were entitled by him Prayers and Meditations,
and have, in pursuance of his earnest requisition, in the hopes of doing good, been published,
with a judicious well-written Preface, by the Reverend Mr. Strahan, to whom he delivered them[1163].
This admirable collection, to which I have frequently referred in the course of this Work,
evinces, beyond all his compositions for the publick, and all the eulogies of his friends and
admirers, the sincere virtue and piety of Johnson. It proves with unquestionable authenticity,
that amidst all his constitutional infirmities, his earnestness to conform his practice to
the precepts of Christianity was unceasing, and that he habitually endeavoured to refer every
transaction of his life to the will of the Supreme Being.

'DEAR SIR,

'I did not reach Oxford until Friday morning, and then I sent Francis to see the balloon fly,
but could not go myself. I staid at Oxford till Tuesday, and then came in the common vehicle
easily to London. I am as I was, and having seen Dr. Brocklesby, am to ply the squills; but,
whatever be their efficacy, this world must soon pass away. Let us think seriously on our duty.
I send my kindest respects to dear Mrs. Careless[1165]: let me have the prayers of both. We
have all lived long, and must soon part. GOD have mercy on us, for the sake of our Lord JESUS
CHRIST. Amen.

'I am, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, Nov. 17, 1784.'

His correspondence with me, after his letter on the subject of my settling in London, shall
now, so far as is proper, be produced in one series:--

July 26, he wrote to me from Ashbourne:--

'On the 14th I came to Lichfield, and found every body glad enough to see me. On the 20th,
I came hither, and found a house half-built, of very uncomfortable appearance; but my own room
has not been altered. That a man worn with diseases, in his seventy-second or third year, should
condemn part of his remaining life to pass among ruins and rubbish, and that no inconsiderable
part, appears to me very strange. I know that your kindness makes you impatient to know the
state of my health, in which I cannot boast of much improvement. I came through the journey
without much inconvenience, but when I attempt self-motion I find my legs weak, and my breath
very short; this day I have been much disordered. Be (as Temple says of the Dutchmen) well
when you are not ill, and pleased when you are not angry[1169].... This may seem but an ill
return for your tenderness; but I mean it well, for I love you with great ardour and sincerity.
Pay my respects to dear Mrs. Boswell, and teach the young ones to love me.'

I unfortunately was so much indisposed during a considerable part of the year, that it was
not, or at least I thought it was not in my power to write to my illustrious friend as formerly,
or without expressing such complaints as offended him. Having conjured him not to do me the
injustice of charging me with affectation, I was with much regret long silent. His last letter
to me then came, and affected me very tenderly:--

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have this summer sometimes amended, and sometimes relapsed, but, upon the whole, have lost
ground, very much. My legs are extremely weak, and my breath very short, and the water is now
encreasing upon me. In this uncomfortable state your letters used to relieve; what is the reason
that I have them no longer? Are you sick, or are you sullen? Whatever be the reason, if it
be less than necessity, drive it away; and of the short life that we have, make the best use
for yourself and for your friends.... I am sometimes afraid that your omission to write has
some real cause, and shall be glad to know that you are not sick, and that nothing ill has
befallen dear Mrs. Boswell, or any of your family.

'I am, Sir, your, &c.

'SAM.

I now relieve the readers of this Work from any farther personal notice of its authour, who
if he should be thought to have obtruded himself too much upon their attention, requests them
to consider the peculiar plan of his biographical undertaking.

Soon after Johnson's return to the metropolis, both the asthma and dropsy became more violent
and distressful. He had for some time kept a journal in Latin of the state of his illness,
and the remedies which he used, under the title of Aegri Ephemeris, which he began on the 6th
of July, but continued it no longer than the 8th of November; finding, I suppose, that it was
a mournful and unavailing register. It is in my possession; and is written with great care
and accuracy.

Still his love of literature[1170] did not fail. A very few days before his death he transmitted
to his friend Mr. John Nichols, a list of the authours of the Universal History, mentioning
their several shares in that work. It has, according to his direction, been deposited in the
British Museum, and is printed in the Gentleman's Magazine for December, 1784.

I shall now fulfil my promise[1176] of exhibiting specimens of various sorts of imitation of
Johnson's style.

In the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, 1787, there is an 'Essay on the Style of Dr.
Samuel Johnson,' by the Reverend Robert Burrowes, whose respect for the great object of his
criticism[1177] is thus evinced in the concluding paragraph:--

'I have singled him out from the whole body of English writers, because his universally-acknowledged
beauties would be most apt to induce imitation; and I have treated rather on his faults than
his perfections, because an essay might comprize all the observations I could make upon his
faults, while volumes would not be sufficient for a treatise on his perfections.'

Mr. BURROWES has analysed the composition of Johnson, and pointed out its peculiarities with
much acuteness; and I would recommend a careful perusal of his Essay to those, who being captivated
by the union of perspicuity and splendour which the writings of Johnson contain, without having
a sufficient portion of his vigour of mind, may be in danger of becoming bad copyists of his
manner. I, however, cannot but observe, and I observe it to his credit, that this learned gentleman
has himself caught no mean degree of the expansion and harmony, which, independent of all other
circumstances, characterise the sentences of Johnson. Thus, in the Preface to the volume in
which his Essay appears, we find,--

'If it be said that in societies of this sort, too much attention is frequently bestowed on
subjects barren and speculative, it may be answered, that no one science is so little connected
with the rest, as not to afford many principles whose use may extend considerably beyond the
science to which they primarily belong; and that no proposition is so purely theoretical as
to be totally incapable of being applied to practical purposes. It is evidently meant as a
sportive sally of ridicule on Johnson, whose style is thus imitated, without being grossly
overcharged:--

'It is easy to foresee, that the idle and illiterate will complain that I have increased their
labours by endeavouring to diminish them; and that I have explained what is more easy by what
is more difficult-- ignotum per ignotius. I expect, on the other hand, the liberal acknowledgements
of the learned. He who is buried in scholastick retirement, secluded from the assemblies of
the gay, and remote from the circles of the polite, will at once comprehend the definitions,
and be grateful for such a seasonable and necessary elucidation of his mother-tongue.'

Annexed to this letter is a short specimen of the work, thrown together in a vague and desultory
manner, not even adhering to alphabetical concatenation[1180].

The serious imitators of Johnson's style, whether intentionally or by the imperceptible effect
of its strength and animation, are, as I have had already occasion to observe, so many, that
I might introduce quotations from a numerous body of writers in our language, since he appeared
in the literary world. I shall point out only the following:--

WILLIAM ROBERTSON, D.D.[1181]

'In other parts of the globe, man, in his rudest state, appears as lord of the creation, giving
law to various tribes of animals which he has tamed and reduced to subjection. The Tartar follows
his prey on the horse which he has reared, or tends his numerous herds, which furnish him both
with food and clothing; the Arab has rendered the camel docile, and avails himself of its persevering
strength; the Laplander has formed the rein-deer to be subservient to his will; and even the
people of Kamschatka have trained their dogs to labour. This command over the inferiour creatures
is one of the noblest prerogatives of man, and among the greatest efforts of his wisdom and
power. Without this, his dominion is incomplete. He is a monarch who has no subjects; a master
without servants; and must perform every operation by the strength of his own arm[1182].'

EDWARD GIBBON, Esq.[1183]

'Of all our passions and appetites, the love of power is of the most imperious and unsociable
nature, since the pride of one man requires the submission of the multitude. In the tumult
of civil discord the laws of society lose their force, and their place is seldom supplied by
those of humanity. The ardour of contention, the pride of victory, the despair of success,
the memory of past injuries, and the fear of future dangers, all contribute to inflame the
mind, and to silence the voice of pity[1184].'

MISS BURNEY[1185].

'In an enlightened and improving age, much perhaps is not to be apprehended from the inroads
of mere caprice; at such a period it will generally be perceived, that needless irregularity
is the worst of all deformities, and that nothing is so truly elegant in language as the simplicity
of unviolated analogy. Rules will, therefore, be observed, so far as they are known and acknowledged:
but, at the same time, the desire of improvement having been once excited will not remain inactive;
and its efforts, unless assisted by knowledge, as much as they are prompted by zeal, will not
unfrequently be found pernicious; so that the very persons whose intention it is to perfect
the instrument of reason, will deprave and disorder it unknowingly. At such a time, then, it
becomes peculiarly necessary that the analogy of language should be fully examined and understood;
that its rules should be carefully laid down; and that it should be clearly known how much
it contains, which being already right should be defended from change and violation: how much
it has that demands amendment; and how much that, for fear of greater inconveniencies, must,
perhaps, be left unaltered, though irregular.'

A distinguished authour in The Mirror[1188], a periodical paper, published at Edinburgh, has
imitated Johnson very closely. Thus, in No. 16,--

'The effects of the return of spring have been frequently remarked as well in relation to the
human mind as to the animal and vegetable world. The reviving power of this season has been
traced from the fields to the herds that inhabit them, and from the lower classes of beings
up to man. Gladness and joy are described as prevailing through universal Nature, animating
the low of the cattle, the carol of the birds, and the pipe of the shepherd.'

The Reverend Dr. KNOX[1189], master of Tunbridge school, appears to have the imitari avco[1190]
of Johnson's style perpetually in his mind; and to his assiduous, though not servile, study
of it, we may partly ascribe the extensive popularity of his writings[1191].

In his Essays, Moral and Literary, No. 3, we find the following passage:--

'The polish of external grace may indeed be deferred till the approach of manhood. When solidity
is obtained by pursuing the modes prescribed by our fore-fathers, then may the file be used.
The firm substance will bear attrition, and the lustre then acquired will be durable.'

There is, however, one in No. 11, which is blown up into such tumidity, as to be truly ludicrous.
The writer means to tell us, that Members of Parliament, who have run in debt by extravagance,
will sell their votes to avoid an arrest[1192], which he thus expresses:--

'They who build houses and collect costly pictures and furniture with the money of an honest
artisan or mechanick, will be very glad of emancipation from the hands of a bailiff, by a sale
of their senatorial suffrage.'

But I think the most perfect imitation of Johnson is a professed one, entitled A Criticism
on Gray's Elegy in a Country Church-Yard, said to be written by Mr. Young, Professor of Greek,
at Glasgow, and of which let him have the credit, unless a better title can be shewn. It has
not only the peculiarities of Johnson's style, but that very species of literary discussion
and illustration for which he was eminent. Having already quoted so much from others, I shall
refer the curious to this performance, with an assurance of much entertainment[1193].

Yet whatever merit there may be in any imitations of Johnson's style, every good judge must
see that they are obviously different from the original; for all of them are either deficient
in its force, or overloaded with its peculiarities; and the powerful sentiment to which it
is suited is not to be found[1194].

Johnson's affection for his departed relations seemed to grow warmer as he approached nearer
to the time when he might hope to see them again. It probably appeared to him that he should
upbraid himself with unkind inattention, were he to leave the world without having paid a tribute
of respect to their memory.

'To MR. GREEN[1195], APOTHECARY, AT LICHFIELD. JOHNSON.'

'Dec. 2, 1784.'

'To MRS. LUCY PORTER, IN LICHFIELD.

'DEAR MADAM,

'I am very ill, and desire your prayers. I have sent Mr. Green the Epitaph, and a power to
call on you for ten pounds.

'I laid this summer a stone over Tetty, in the chapel of Bromley, in Kent[1198]. The inscription
is in Latin, of which this is the English. [Here a translation.]

'That this is done, I thought it fit that you should know. What care will be taken of us, who
can tell? May GOD pardon and bless us, for JESUS CHRIST'S sake.

'I am, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON[1199],'

'Dec. 2, 1784.'

My readers are now, at last, to behold SAMUEL JOHNSON preparing himself for that doom, from
which the most exalted powers afford no exemption to man[1200].

'You know, (says he,)[1202] I never thought confidence with respect to futurity, any part of
the character of a brave, a wise, or a good man. Bravery has no place where it can avail nothing;
wisdom impresses strongly the consciousness of those faults, of which it is, perhaps, itself
an aggravation; and goodness, always wishing to be better, and imputing every deficience to
criminal negligence, and every fault to voluntary corruption, never dares to suppose the condition
of forgiveness fulfilled, nor what is wanting in the crime supplied by penitence.

'This is the state of the best; but what must be the condition of him whose heart will not
suffer him to rank himself among the best, or among the good? Such must be his dread of the
approaching trial, as will leave him little attention to the opinion of those whom he is leaving
for ever; and the serenity that is not felt, it can be no virtue to feign.'

His great fear of death, and the strange dark manner in which Sir John Hawkins[1203] imparts
the uneasiness which he expressed on account of offences with which he charged himself, may
give occasion to injurious suspicions, as if there had been something of more than ordinary
criminality weighing upon his conscience. On that account, therefore, as well as from the regard
to truth which he inculcated[1204], I am to mention, (with all possible respect and delicacy,
however,) that his conduct, after he came to London, and had associated with Savage and others,
was not so strictly virtuous, in one respect, as when he was a younger man. It was well known,
that his amorous inclinations were uncommonly strong and impetuous. He owned to many of his
friends, that he used to take women of the town to taverns, and hear them relate their history[1205].
In short, it must not be concealed, that, like many other good and pious men, among whom we
may place the Apostle Paul upon his own authority, Johnson was not free from propensities which
were ever 'warring against the law of his mind[1206],'--and that in his combats with them,
he was sometimes overcome[1207].

Here let the profane and licentious pause; let them not thoughtlessly say that Johnson was
an hypocrite, or that his principles were not firm, because his practice was not uniformly
conformable to what he professed.

Let the question be considered independent of moral and religious association; and no man will
deny that thousands, in many instances, act against conviction. Is a prodigal, for example,
an hypocrite, when he owns he is satisfied that his extravagance will bring him to ruin and
misery? We are sure he believes it; but immediate inclination, strengthened by indulgence,
prevails over that belief in influencing his conduct. Why then shall credit be refused to the
sincerity of those who acknowledge their persuasion of moral and religious duty, yet sometimes
fail of living as it requires? I heard Dr. Johnson once observe, 'There is something noble
in publishing truth, though it condemns one's self[1208].' And one who said in his presence,
'he had no notion of people being in earnest in their good professions, whose practice was
not suitable to them,' was thus reprimanded by him:--'Sir, are you so grossly ignorant of human
nature as not to know that a man may be very sincere in good principles, without having good
practice[1209]?'

But let no man encourage or soothe himself in 'presumptuous sin[1210],' from knowing that Johnson
was sometimes hurried into indulgences which he thought criminal. I have exhibited this circumstance
as a shade in so great a character, both from my sacred love of truth, and to shew that he
was not so weakly scrupulous as he has been represented by those who imagine that the sins,
of which a deep sense was upon his mind, were merely such little venial trifles as pouring
milk into his tea on Good-Friday. His understanding will be defended by my statement, if his
consistency of conduct be in some degree impaired. But what wise man would, for momentary gratifications,
deliberately subject himself to suffer such uneasiness as we find was experienced by Johnson
in reviewing his conduct as compared with his notion of the ethicks of the gospel? Let the
following passages be kept in remembrance:--

'O, GOD, giver and preserver of all life, by whose power I was created, and by whose providence
I am sustained, look down upon me with tenderness and mercy; grant that I may not have been
created to be finally destroyed; that I may not be preserved to add wickedness to wickedness[1211].'
'O, LORD, let me not sink into total depravity; look down upon me, and rescue me at last from
the captivity of sin[1212].' 'Almighty and most merciful Father, who hast continued my life
from year to year, grant that by longer life I may become less desirous of sinful pleasures,
and more careful of eternal happiness[1213].' 'Let not my years be multiplied to increase my
guilt; but as my age advances, let me become more pure in my thoughts, more regular in my desires,
and more obedient to thy laws[1214].' 'Forgive, O merciful LORD, whatever I have done contrary
to thy laws. Give me such a sense of my wickedness as may produce true contrition and effectual
repentance; so that when I shall be called into another state, I may be received among the
sinners to whom whom sorrow and reformation have obtained pardon, for JESUS CHRIST'S sake.
Amen[1215].'

Such was the distress of mind, such the penitence of Johnson, in his hours of privacy, and
in his devout approaches to his Maker. His sincerity, therefore, must appear to every candid
mind unquestionable.

It is of essential consequence to keep in view, that there was in this excellent man's conduct
no false principle of commutation, no deliberate indulgence in sin, in consideration of a counter-balance
of duty. His offending, and his repenting, were distinct and separate[1216]: and when we consider
his almost unexampled attention to truth, his inflexible integrity, his constant piety, who
will dare to 'cast a stone at him[1217]?' Besides, let it never be forgotten, that he cannot
be charged with any offence indicating badness of heart, any thing dishonest, base, or malignant;
but that, on the contrary, he was charitable in an extraordinary degree: so that even in one
of his own rigid judgements of himself, (Easter-eve, 1781,) while he says, 'I have corrected
no external habits;' he is obliged to own, 'I hope that since my last communion I have advanced,
by pious reflections, in my submission to GOD, and my benevolence to man[1218].'

I am conscious that this is the most difficult and dangerous part of my biographical work,
and I cannot but be very anxious concerning it. I trust that I have got through it, preserving
at once my regard to truth,--to my friend,--and to the interests of virtue and religion. Nor
can I apprehend that more harm can ensue from the knowledge of the irregularity of Johnson,
guarded as I have stated it, than from knowing that Addison and Parnell were intemperate in
the use of wine; which he himself, in his Lives of those celebrated writers and pious men,
has not forborne to record[1219].

It is not my intention to give a very minute detail of the particulars of Johnson's remaining
days[1220], of whom it was now evident, that the crisis was fast approaching, when he must
'die like men, and fall like one of the Princes[1221].' Yet it will be instructive, as well
as gratifying to the curiosity of my readers, to record a few circumstances, on the authenticity
of which they may perfectly rely, as I have been at the utmost pains to obtain an accurate
account of his last illness, from the best authority[1222].

'When talking of a regular edition of his own works, he said, "that he had power, [from the
booksellers,] to print such an edition, if his health admitted it; but had no power to assign
over any edition, unless he could add notes, and so alter them as to make them new works; which
his state of health forbade him to think of. I may possibly live, (said he,) or rather breath,
three days, or perhaps three weeks; but find myself daily and gradually weaker."

'He was earnestly invited to publish a volume of Devotional Exercises[1246]; but this, (though
he listened to the proposal with much complacency, and a large sum of money was offered for
it,) he declined, from motives of the sincerest modesty.

'He seriously entertained the thought of translating Thuanus[1247]. He often talked to me on
the subject; and once, in particular, when I was rather wishing that he would favour the world,
and gratify his sovereign, by a Life of Spenser[1248], (which he said that he would readily
have done, had he been able to obtain any new materials for the purpose,) he added, "I have
been thinking again, Sir, of Thuanus: it would not be the laborious task which you have supposed
it. I should have no trouble but that of dictation, which would be performed as speedily as
an amanuensis could write."

It is to the mutual credit of Johnson and Divines of different communions, that although he
was a steady Church-of-England man, there was, nevertheless, much agreeable intercourse between
him and them. Let me particularly name the late Mr. La Trobe, and Mr. Hutton[1249], of the
Moravian profession. His intimacy with the English Benedictines, at Paris, has been mentioned[1250];
and as an additional proof of the charity in which he lived with good men of the Romish Church,
I am happy in this opportunity of recording his friendship with the Reverend Thomas Hussey[1251],
D.D. His Catholick Majesty's Chaplain of Embassy at the Court of London, that very respectable
man, eminent not only for his powerful eloquence as a preacher, but for his various abilities
and acquisitions. Nay, though Johnson loved a Presbyterian the least of all, this did not prevent
his having a long and uninterrupted social connection with the Reverend Dr. James Fordyce,
who, since his death, hath gratefully celebrated him in a warm strain of devotional composition[1252].
That copy was given to Mrs. Thrale, now Piozzi, who has published it in a Book which she entitles
British Synonymy[1255], but which is truly a collection of entertaining remarks and stories,
no matter whether accurate or not. Being a piece of exquisite satire, conveyed in a strain
of pointed vivacity and humour, and in a manner of which no other instance is to be found in
Johnson's writings, I shall here insert it[1256]:--

     Long-expected one-and-twenty,
       Ling'ring year, at length is flown;
     Pride and pleasure, pomp and plenty,
       Great --- ----[1257], are now your own.

     Loosen'd from the Minor's tether,
       Free to mortgage or to sell,
     Wild as wind, and light as feather,
       Bid the sons of thrift farewell.

     Call the Betseys, Kates, and Jennies,
       All the names that banish care;
     Lavish of your grandsire's guineas,
       Shew the spirit of an heir.

     All that prey on vice or folly
       Joy to see their quarry fly;
     There the gamester, light and jolly,
       There the lender, grave and sly.

     Wealth, my lad, was made to wander,
       Let it wander as it will;
     Call the jockey, call the pander,
       Bid them come and take their fill.

     When the bonny blade carouses,
       Pockets full, and spirits high--
     What are acres? what are houses?
       Only dirt, or wet or dry.

     Should the guardian friend or mother
       Tell the woes of wilful waste;
     Scorn their counsel, scorn their pother,--
       You can hang or drown at last. Sir Joshua readily acquiesced[1260].

Indeed he shewed the greatest anxiety for the religious improvement of his friends, to whom
he discoursed of its infinite consequence. He begged of Mr. Hoole to think of what he had said,
and to commit it to writing: and, upon being afterwards assured that this was done, pressed
his hands, and in an earnest tone thanked him. Dr. Brocklesby having attended him with the
utmost assiduity and kindness as his physician and friend, he was peculiarly desirous that
this gentleman should not entertain any loose speculative notions, but be confirmed in the
truths of Christianity, and insisted on his writing down in his presence, as nearly as he could
collect it, the import of what passed on the subject: and Dr. Brocklesby having complied with
the request, he made him sign the paper, and urged him to keep it in his own custody as long
as he lived[1261].

'He talked often to me about the necessity of faith in the sacrifice of Jesus, as necessary
beyond all good works whatever, for the salvation of mankind.

'He pressed me to study Dr. Clarke and to read his Sermons. I asked him why he pressed Dr.
Clarke, an Arian[1264]. A sermon upon that event was preached in St. Mary's Church, Oxford,
before the University, by the Reverend Mr. Agutter, of Magdalen College[1278]. The Lives, the
Memoirs, the Essays, both in prose and verse, which have been published concerning him, would
make many volumes. The numerous attacks too upon him, I consider as part of his consequence,
upon the principle which he himself so well knew and asserted[1279]. Many who trembled at his
presence, were forward in assault, when they no longer apprehended danger. When one of his
little pragmatical foes was invidiously snarling at his fame, at Sir Joshua Reynolds's table,
the Reverend Dr. Parr exclaimed, with his usual bold animation, 'Ay, now that the old lion
is dead, every ass thinks he may kick at him.'

A monument for him, in Westminster Abbey, was resolved upon soon after his death, and was supported
by a most respectable contribution[1280]; but the Dean and Chapter of St. Paul's having come
to a resolution of admitting monuments there, upon a liberal and magnificent plan, that Cathedral
was afterwards fixed on, as the place in which a cenotaph should be erected to his memory[1281]:
and in the cathedral of his native city of Lichfield, a smaller one is to be erected. To compose
his epitaph, could not but excite the warmest competition of genius[1282]. If laudari à laudato
viro be praise which is highly estimable[1283], I should not forgive myself were I to omit
the following sepulchral verses on the authour of THE ENGLISH DICTIONARY, written by the Right
Honourable Henry Flood[1284]:--

     'No need of Latin or of Greek to grace
        Our JOHNSON'S memory, or inscribe his grave;
      His native language claims this mournful space,
        To pay the Immortality he gave.'

The character of SAMUEL JOHNSON has, I trust, been so developed in the course of this work,
that they who have honoured it with a perusal, may be considered as well acquainted with him.
As, however, it may be expected that I should collect into one view the capital and distinguishing
features of this extraordinary man, I shall endeavour to acquit myself of that part of my biographical
undertaking[1285], however difficult it may be to do that which many of my readers will do
better for themselves.

His figure was large and well formed, and his countenance of the cast of an ancient statue;
yet his appearance was rendered strange and somewhat uncouth, by convulsive cramps, by the
scars of that distemper which it was once imagined the royal touch could cure, and by a slovenly
mode of dress. He had the use only of one eye; yet so much does mind govern and even supply
the deficiency of organs, that his visual perceptions, as far as they extended, were uncommonly
quick and accurate[1286]. So morbid was his temperament, that he never knew the natural joy
of a free and vigorous use of his limbs: when he walked, it was like the struggling gait of
one in fetters; when he rode, he had no command or direction of his horse, but was carried
as if in a balloon[1287]. That with his constitution and habits of life he should have lived
seventy-five years, is a proof that an inherent vivida vis[1288] is a powerful preservative
of the human frame.

Man is, in general, made up of contradictory qualities; and these will ever shew themselves
in strange succession, where a consistency in appearance at least, if not in reality, has not
been attained by long habits of philosophical discipline. In proportion to the native vigour
of the mind, the contradictory qualities will be the more prominent, and more difficult to
be adjusted; and, therefore, we are not to wonder, that Johnson exhibited an eminent example
of this remark which I have made upon human nature. At different times, he seemed a different
man, in some respects; not, however, in any great or essential article, upon which he had fully
employed his mind, and settled certain principles of duty, but only in his manners, and in
the display of argument and fancy in his talk. He was prone to superstition, but not to credulity.
Though his imagination might incline him to a belief of the marvellous and the mysterious,
his vigorous reason examined the evidence with jealousy[1289]. He was a sincere and zealous
Christian, of high Church-of-England and monarchical principles, which he would not tamely
suffer to be questioned; and had, perhaps, at an early period, narrowed his mind somewhat too
much, both as to religion and politicks. His being impressed with the danger of extreme latitude
in either, though he was of a very independent spirit, occasioned his appearing somewhat unfavourable
to the prevalence of that noble freedom of sentiment which is the best possession of man. Nor
can it be denied, that he had many prejudices; which, however, frequently suggested many of
his pointed sayings, that rather shew a playfulness of fancy than any settled malignity. He
was steady and inflexible in maintaining the obligations of religion and morality; both from
a regard for the order of society, and from a veneration for the GREAT SOURCE of all order;
correct, nay stern in his taste; hard to please, and easily offended[1290]; impetuous and irritable
in his temper, but of a most humane and benevolent heart[1291], which shewed itself not only
in a most liberal charity, as far as his circumstances would allow, but in a thousand instances
of active benevolence. He was afflicted with a bodily disease, which made him often restless
and fretful; and with a constitutional melancholy, the clouds of which darkened the brightness
of his fancy, and gave a gloomy cast to his whole course of thinking: we, therefore, ought
not to wonder at his sallies of impatience and passion at any time; especially when provoked
by obtrusive ignorance, or presuming petulance; and allowance must be made for his uttering
hasty and satirical sallies even against his best friends. And, surely, when it is considered,
that, 'amidst sickness and sorrow[1292],'he exerted his faculties in so many works for the
benefit of mankind, and particularly that he atchieved the great and admirable DICTIONARY of
our language, we must be astonished at his resolution. The solemn text, 'of him to whom much
is given, much will be required[1293],' seems to have been ever present to his mind, in a rigorous
sense, and to have made him dissatisfied with his labours and acts of goodness, however comparatively
great; so that the unavoidable consciousness of his superiority was, in that respect, a cause
of disquiet. He suffered so much from this, and from the gloom which perpetually haunted him,
and made solitude frightful, that it may be said of him, 'If in this life only he had hope,
he was of all men most miserable[1294].' He loved praise, when it was brought to him; but was
too proud to seek for it. He was somewhat susceptible of flattery. As he was general and unconfined
in his studies, he cannot be considered as master of any one particular science; but he had
accumulated a vast and various collection of learning and knowledge, which was so arranged
in his mind, as to be ever in readiness to be brought forth. But his superiority over other
learned men consisted chiefly in what may be called the art of thinking, the art of using his
mind; a certain continual power of seizing the useful substance of all that he knew, and exhibiting
it in a clear and forcible manner; so that knowledge, which we often see to be no better than
lumber in men of dull understanding, was, in him, true, evident, and actual wisdom. His moral
precepts are practical; for they are drawn from an intimate acquaintance with human nature.
His maxims carry conviction; for they are founded on the basis of common sense, and a very
attentive and minute survey of real life. His mind was so full of imagery, that he might have
been perpetually a poet; yet it is remarkable, that, however rich his prose is in this respect,
his poetical pieces, in general, have not much of that splendour, but are rather distinguished
by strong sentiment and acute observation, conveyed in harmonious and energetick verse, particularly
in heroick couplets. Though usually grave, and even aweful, in his deportment, he possessed
uncommon and peculiar powers of wit and humour; he frequently indulged himself in colloquial
pleasantry; and the heartiest merriment[1295] was often enjoyed in his company; with this great
advantage, that as it was entirely free from any poisonous tincture of vice or impiety, it
was salutary to those who shared in it. He had accustomed himself to such accuracy in his common
conversation[1296], that he at all times expressed his thoughts with great force, and an elegant
choice of language, the effect of which was aided by his having a loud voice, and a slow deliberate
utterance[1297]. In him were united a most logical head with a most fertile imagination, which
gave him an extraordinary advantage in arguing: for he could reason close or wide, as he saw
best for the moment. Exulting in his intellectual strength and dexterity, he could, when he
pleased, be the greatest sophist that ever contended in the lists of declamation; and, from
a spirit of contradiction and a delight in shewing his powers, he would often maintain the
wrong side with equal warmth and ingenuity; so that, when there was an audience, his real opinions
could seldom be gathered from his talk[1298]; though when he was in company with a single friend,
he would discuss a subject with genuine fairness: but he was too conscientious to make errour
permanent and pernicious, by deliberately writing it; and, in all his numerous works, he earnestly
inculcated what appeared to him to be the truth; his piety being constant, and the ruling principle
of all his conduct[1299].

Such was SAMUEL JOHNSON, a man whose talents, acquirements, and virtues, were so extraordinary,
that the more his character is considered, the more he will be regarded by the present age,
and by posterity, with admiration and reverence[1300].

APPENDIX A.

(Page 115, note 4.)

There are at least three accounts of this altercation and three versions of the lines. Two
of these versions nearly agree. The earliest is found in a letter by Richard Burke, senior,
dated Jan. 6, 1773 (Burke Corres. i. 403); the second in The Annual Register for 1776, p. 223;
and the third in Miss Reynolds's Recollections (Croker's Boswell, 8vo. p. 833). R. Burke places
the scene in Reynolds's house. Whether he himself was present is not clear. 'The dean,' he
says, 'asserted that after forty-five a man did not improve. "I differ with you, Sir," answered
Johnson; "a man may improve, and you yourself have great room for improvement." The dean was
confounded, and for the instant silent. Recovering, he said, "On recollection I see no cause
to alter my opinion, except I was to call it improvement for a man to grow (which I allow he
may) positive, rude, and insolent, and save arguments by brutality."' Neither the Annual Register
nor Miss Reynolds reports the Dean's speech. But she says that 'soon after the ladies withdrew,
Dr. Johnson followed them, and sitting down by the lady of the house [that is by herself, if
they were at Sir Joshua's] he said, "I am very sorry for having spoken so rudely to the Dean."
"You very well may, Sir." "Yes," he said, "it was highly improper to speak in that style to
a minister of the gospel, and I am the more hurt on reflecting with what mild dignity he received
it."' If Johnson really spoke of the Dean's mild dignity, it is clear that Richard Burke's
account is wrong. But it was written just after the scene, and Boswell says there was 'a pretty
smart altercation.' Miss Reynolds continues:--'When the Dean came up into the drawing-room,
Dr. Johnson immediately rose from his seat, and made him sit on the sofa by him, and with such
a beseeching look for pardon and with such fond gestures--literally smoothing down his arms
and his knees,' &c. The Annual Register says that Barnard the next day sent the verses addressed
to 'Sir Joshua Reynolds & Co.' On the next page I give Richard Burke's version of the lines,
and show the various readings.

MISS REYNOLD'S       RICHARD BURKE'S VERSION.          Annual Register
  VERSION
                    I lately thought no man alive
                    Could e'er improve past forty-five,
                      And ventured to assert it;
                    The observation was not new,
                    But seem'd to me so just and true,
                      That none could controvert it.

                    'No, Sir,' says Johnson, ''tis not so;
'Tis                That's your mistake, and I can show
                      An instance, if you doubt it;
You who perhaps are You, Sir, who are near forty-eight,
still               May much improve, 'tis not too late;
                      I wish you'd set about it.'

                    Encouraged thus to mend my faults,
                    I turn'd his counsel in my thoughts,
could                 Which way I should apply it:
Genius I knew was   Learning and wit seem'd past my reach,
what none can       For who can learn where none will teach? when
                      And wit--I could not buy it.

                    Then come, my friends, and try your skill,
may                 You can improve me, if you will;          inform
                      (My books are at a distance).
                    With you I'll live and learn; and then
                    Instead of books I shall read men,
                      So lend me your assistance.            To

                    Dear Knight of Plympton[1301], teach me how
unclouded           To suffer with unruffled brow,
as                    And smile serene like thine,
and                 The jest uncouth or truth severe,
Like thee to turn   To such apply my deafest ear,            To such
                      And calmly drink my wine.                I'll turn

                    Thou say'st, not only skill is gain'd,
attained            But genius too may be obtain'd,          attained
invitation            By studious imitation;
                    Thy temper mild, thy genius fine,
study               I'll copy till I make them mine,       thee
meditation            By constant application.

                    Thy art of pleasing teach me, Garrick,
reverest (sic)    Thou who reversest odes Pindarick[1302],
                      A second time read o'er;
                    Oh! could we read thee backwards too,
Past                Last thirty years thou shouldst review,
                      And charm us thirty more.

                    If I have thoughts and can't express 'em,
                    Gibbon shall teach me how to dress 'em
                      In terms select and terse;
                    Jones teach me modesty--and Greek;
                    Smith how to think; Burke how to speak,   Burk
                      And Beauclerk to converse.

                    Let Johnson teach me how to place
                    In fairest light each borrowed grace,
                      From him I'll learn to write;
free and easy       Copy his clear and easy style,            clear
                    And from the roughness of his file,         familiar
like                  Grow as himself--polite.'               like

Horace Walpole, on Dec. 27, 1775, speaks of these verses as if they were fresh. 'They are an
answer,' he writes, 'to a gross brutality of Dr. Johnson, to which a properer answer would
have been to fling a glass of wine in his face. I have no patience with an unfortunate monster
trusting to his helpless deformity for indemnity for any impertinence that his arrogance suggests,
and who thinks that what he has read is an excuse for everything he says.' Horace Walpole's
Letters, vi. 302. It is strange that Walpole should be so utterly ignorant of Johnson's courage
and bodily strength. The date of Walpole's letter makes me suspect that Richard Burke dated
his Jan. 6, 1775 (he should have written 1776), and that the blunder of a copyist has changed
1775 into 1773.

APPENDIX B.

(Page 238.)

Had Boswell continued the quotation from Priestley's Illustrations of Philosophical Necessity
he would have shown that though Priestley could not hate the rioters, he could very easily
prosecute them. He says:--

'If as a Necessarian I cease to blame men for their vices in the ultimate sense of the word,
though, in the common and proper sense of it, I continue to do as much as other persons (for
how necessarily soever they act, they are influenced by a base and mischievous disposition
of mind, against which I must guard myself and others in proportion as I love myself and others),'
&c. Priestley's Works, iii. 508.

Of his interview with Johnson, Priestley, in his Appeal to the Public, part ii, published in
1792 (Works, xix. 502), thus writes, answering 'the impudent falsehood that when I was at Oxford
Dr. Johnson left a company on my being introduced to it':--

'In fact we never were at Oxford at the same time, and the only interview I ever had with him
was at Mr. Paradise's, where we dined together at his own request. He was particularly civil
to me, and promised to call upon me the next time he should go through Birmingham. He behaved
with the same civility to Dr. Price, when they supped together at Dr. Adams's at Oxford. Several
circumstances show that Dr. Johnson had not so much of bigotry at the decline of life as had
distinguished him before, on which account it is well known to all our common acquaintance,
that I declined all their pressing solicitations to be introduced to him.'

Priestley expresses himself ill, but his meaning can be made out. Parr answered Boswell in
the March number of the Gent. Mag. for 1795, p. 179. But the evidence that he brings is rendered
needless by Priestley's positive statement. May peace henceforth fall on 'Priestley's injured
name.' (Mrs. Barbauld's Poems, ii. 243.)

When Boswell asserts that Johnson 'was particularly resolute in not giving countenance to men
whose writings he considered as pernicious to society,' he forgets that that very summer of
1783 he had been willing to dine at Wilkes's house (ante, p. 224, note 2).

Dr. Franklin (Memoirs, ed. 1833, iii. 157) wrote to Dr. Price in 1784:--'It is said that scarce
anybody but yourself and Dr. Priestley possesses the art of knowing how to differ decently.'
Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 304), describing in 1789 the honestest members of the French Assembly,
calls them 'a set of wild visionaries, like our Dr. Price, who gravely debate, and dream about
the establishment of a pure and perfect democracy of five and twenty millions, the virtues
of the golden age, and the primitive rights and equality of mankind.' Admiration of Price made
Samuel Rogers, when a boy, wish to be a preacher. 'I thought there was nothing on earth so
grand as to figure in a pulpit. Dr. Price lived much in the society of Lord Lansdowne [Earl
of Shelburne] and other people of rank; and his manners were extremely polished. In the pulpit
he was great indeed.' Rogers's Table Talk, p. 3.

The full title of the tract mentioned by Boswell is, A small Whole-Length of Dr. Priestley
from his Printed Works. It was published in 1792, and is a very poor piece of writing.

Johnson had refused to meet the Abbé Raynal, the author of the Histoire Philosophique et Politique
du Commerce des Deux Indes, when he was over in England in 1777. Mrs. Chapone, writing to Mrs.
Carter on June 15 of that year, says:--

'I suppose you have heard a great deal of the Abbé Raynal, who is in London. I fancy you would
have served him as Dr. Johnson did, to whom when Mrs. Vesey introduced him, he turned from
him, and said he had read his book, and would have nothing to say to him.' Mrs. Chapone's Posthumous
Works, i. 172.

See Walpole's Letters, v. 421, and vi. 444. His book was burnt by the common hangman in Paris.
Carlyle's French Revolution, ed. 1857, i. 45.

APPENDIX C.

(Page 253.)

Hawkins gives the two following notes:--

'DEAR SIR,

'As Mr. Ryland was talking with me of old friends and past times, we warmed ourselves into
a wish, that all who remained of the club should meet and dine at the house which once was
Horseman's, in Ivy-lane. I have undertaken to solicit you, and therefore desire you to tell
on what day next week you can conveniently meet your old friends.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Bolt-court, Nov. 22, 1783.'

'DEAR SIR,

'In perambulating Ivy-lane, Mr. Ryland found neither our landlord Horseman, nor his successor.
The old house is shut up, and he liked not the appearance of any near it; he therefore bespoke
our dinner at the Queen's Arms, in St. Paul's Church-yard, where, at half an hour after three,
your company will be desired to-day by those who remain of our former society.

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Dec. 3.'

Four met--Johnson, Hawkins, Ryland, and Payne (ante, i. 243).

'We dined,' Hawkins continues, 'and in the evening regaled with coffee. At ten we broke up,
much to the regret of Johnson, who proposed staying; but finding us inclined to separate, he
left us with a sigh that seemed to come from his heart, lamenting that he was retiring to solitude
and cheerless meditation.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 562.

Hawkins is mistaken in saying that they had a second meeting at a tavern at the end of a month;
for Johnson, on March 10, 1784, wrote:--

'I have been confined from the fourteenth of December, and know not when I shall get out.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 351.

He thus describes these meetings:--

'Dec. 13. I dined about a fortnight ago with three old friends; we had not met together for
thirty years, and one of us thought the other grown very old. In the thirty years two of our
set have died; our meeting may be supposed to be somewhat tender.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 339.

'Jan. 12, 1784. I had the same old friends to dine with me on Wednesday, and may say that since
I lost sight of you I have had one pleasant day.' Ib. p. 346.

'April 15, 1784. Yesterday I had the pleasure of giving another dinner to the remainder of
the old club. We used to meet weekly, about the year fifty, and we were as cheerful as in former
times; only I could not make quite so much noise, for since the paralytick affliction my voice
is sometimes weak.' Ib. p. 361.

'April 19, 1784. Our meetings now are serious, and I think on all parts tender.' Ib. 363.

See ante, i. 191, note 5.

APPENDIX D.

(Page 254.)

It is likely that Sir Joshua Reynolds refused to join the Essex Head Club because he did not
wish to meet Barry. Not long before this time he had censured Barry's delay in entering upon
his duties as Professor of painting.

'Barry answered:--"If I had no more to do in the composition of my lectures than to produce
such poor flimsy stuff as your discourses, I should soon have done my work, and be prepared
to read." It is said this speech was delivered with his fist clenched, in a menacing posture.'
(Northcote's Life of Reynolds, ii. 146.)

The Hon. Daines Barrington was the author of an Essay on the Migration of Birds (ante, ii.
248) and of Observations on the Statutes (ante, iii. 314). Horace Walpole wrote on Nov. 24,
1780 (Letters, vii. 464):--

'I am sorry for the Dean of Exeter; if he dies I conclude the leaden mace of the Antiquarian
Society will be given to Judge Barrington.' (He was 'second Justice of Chester.')

For Dr. Brocklesby see ante, pp. 176, 230, 338, 400.

Of Mr. John Nichols, Murphy says that 'his attachment to Dr. Johnson was unwearied.' Life of
Johnson, p. 66. He was the printer of The Lives of the Poets (ante, p. 36), and the author
of Biographical and Literary Anecdotes of William Bowyer, Printer, 'the last of the learned
printers,' whose apprentice he had been (ante, p. 369). Horace Walpole (Letters, viii. 259) says:--

'I scarce ever saw a book so correct as Mr. Nichols's Life of Mr. Bowyer. I wish it deserved
the pains he has bestowed on it every way, and that he would not dub so many men great. I have
known several of his heroes, who were very little men.'

The Life of Bowyer being recast and enlarged was republished under the title of Literary Anecdotes
of the Eighteenth Century. From 1778 till his death in 1826 the Gentleman's Magazine was in
great measure in his hands. Southey, writing in 1804, says:--

'I have begun to take in here at Keswick the Gentleman's Magazine, alias the Oldwomania, to
enlighten a Portuguese student among the mountains; it does amuse me by its exquisite inanity,
and the glorious and intense stupidity of its correspondents; it is, in truth, a disgrace to
the age and the country.' Southey's Life and Correspondence, ii. 281.

Mr. William Cooke, 'commonly called Conversation Cooke,' wrote Lives of Macklin and Foote.
Forster's Essays, ii. 312, and Gent. Mag. 1824, p. 374. Mr. Richard Paul Joddrel, or Jodrell,
was the author of The Persian Heroine, a Tragedy, which, in Baker's Biog. Dram. i. 400, is
wrongly assigned to Sir R.P. Jodrell, M.D. Nichols's Lit. Anec. ix. 2.

For Mr. Paradise see ante, p. 364, note 2.

Dr. Horsley was the controversialist, later on Bishop of St. David's and next of Rochester.
Gibbon makes splendid mention of him (Misc. Works, i. 232) when he tells how 'Dr. Priestley's
Socinian shield has repeatedly been pierced by the mighty spear of Horsley.' Windham, however,
in his Diary in one place (p. 125) speaks of him as having his thoughts 'intent wholly on prospects
of Church preferment;' and in another place (p. 275) says that 'he often lays down with great
confidence what turns out afterwards to be wrong.' In the House of Lords he once said that
'he did not know what the mass of the people in any country had to do with the laws but to
obey them.' Parl. Hist. xxxii. 258. Thurlow rewarded him for his Letters to Priestley by a
stall at Gloucester, 'saying that "those who supported the Church should be supported by it."'
Campbell's Chancellors, ed. 1846, v. 635.

For Mr. Windham, see ante, p. 200.

Hawkins (Life of Johnson, p. 567) thus writes of the formation of the Club:--

'I was not made privy to this his intention, but all circumstances considered, it was no matter
of surprise to me when I heard that the great Dr. Johnson had, in the month of December 1783,
formed a sixpenny club at an ale-house in Essex-street, and that though some of the persons
thereof were persons of note, strangers, under restrictions, for three pence each night might
three nights in a week hear him talk and partake of his conversation.'

Miss Hawkins (Memoirs, i. 103) says:--

'Boswell was well justified in his resentment of my father's designation of this club as a
sixpenny club, meeting at an ale-house. ... Honestly speaking, I dare say my father did not
like being passed over.'

Sir Joshua Reynolds, writing of the club, says:--

'Any company was better than none; by which Johnson connected himself with many mean persons
whose presence he could command. For this purpose he established a club at a little ale-house
in Essex-street, composed of a strange mixture of very learned and very ingenious odd people.
Of the former were Dr. Heberden, Mr. Windham, Mr. Boswell, Mr. Steevens, Mr. Paradise. Those
of the latter I do not think proper to enumerate.' Taylor's Life of Reynolds, ii. 455.

It is possible that Reynolds had never seen the Essex Head, and that the term 'little ale-house'
he had borrowed from Hawkins's account. Possibly too his disgust at Barry here found vent.
Murphy (Life of Johnson, p. 124) says:--

'The members of the club were respectable for their rank, their talents, and their literature.'

The 'little ale-house' club saw one of its members, Alderman Clarke (ante, p. 258), Lord Mayor
within a year; another, Horsley, a Bishop within five years; and a third, Windham, Secretary
at War within ten years. Nichols (Literary Anecdotes, ii. 553) gives a list of the 'constant
members' at the time of Johnson's death.

APPENDIX E.

(Page 399.)

Miss Burney's account of Johnson's last days is interesting, but her dates are confused more
even than is common with her. I have corrected them as well as I can.

'Dec. 9. He will not, it seems, be talked to--at least very rarely. At times indeed he re-animates;
but it is soon over and he says of himself:--"I am now like Macbeth--question enrages me."'

'Dec. 10. At night my father brought us the most dismal tidings of dear Dr. Johnson. He had
thanked and taken leave of all his physicians. Alas! I shall lose him, and he will take no
leave of me. My father was deeply depressed. I hear from everyone he is now perfectly resigned
to his approaching fate, and no longer in terror of death.'

'Dec. 11. My father in the morning saw this first of men. He was up and very composed. He took
his hand very kindly, asked after all his family, and then in particular how Fanny did. "I
hope," he said, "Fanny did not take it amiss that I did not see her. I was very bad. Tell Fanny
to pray for me." After which, still grasping his hand, he made a prayer for himself, the most
fervent, pious, humble, eloquent, and touching, my father says, that ever was composed. Oh!
would I had heard it! He ended it with Amen! in which my father joined, and was echoed by all
present; and again, when my father was leaving him, he brightened up, something of his arch
look returned, and he said: "I think I shall throw the ball at Fanny yet."'

'Dec. 12. [Miss Burney called at Bolt-court.] All the rest went away but a Mrs. Davis, a good
sort of woman, whom this truly charitable soul had sent for to take a dinner at his house.
[See ante, p. 239, note 2.] Mr. Langton then came. He could not look at me, and I turned away
from him. Mrs. Davis asked how the Doctor was. "Going on to death very fast," was his mournful
answer. "Has he taken," said she, "anything?" "Nothing at all. We carried him some bread and
milk--he refused it, and said:--'The less the better.'"'

'Dec. 20. This day was the ever-honoured, ever-lamented Dr. Johnson committed to the earth.
Oh, how sad a day to me! My father attended. I could not keep my eyes dry all day; nor can
I now in the recollecting it; but let me pass over what to mourn is now so vain.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, ii. 333-339.

APPENDIX F.

(Notes on Boswell's note on pages 403-405.)

[F-1] In a letter quoted in Mr. Croker's Boswell, p. 427, Dr. Johnson calls Thomas Johnson
'cousin,' and says that in the last sixteen months he had given him £40. He mentions his death
in 1779. Piozzi Letters, ii. 45.

[F-2] Hawkins (Life, p. 603) says that Elizabeth Herne was Johnson's first-cousin, and that
he had constantly--how long he does not say--contributed £15 towards her maintenance.

[F-3] For Mauritius Lowe, see ante, iii. 324, and iv. 201.

[F-4] To Mr. Windham, two days earlier, he had given a copy of the New Testament, saying:--'Extremum
hoc munus morientis habeto.' Windham's Diary, p. 28.

[F-5] For Mrs. Gardiner see ante, i. 242.

[F-6] Mr. John Desmoulins was the son of Mrs. Desmoulins (ante, iii. 222, 368), and the grandson
of Johnson's god-father, Dr. Swinfen (ante, i. 34). Johnson mentions him in a letter to Mrs.
Thrale in 1778. 'Young Desmoulins is taken in an under-something of Drury Lane; he knows not,
I believe, his own denomination.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 25.

[F-7] The reference is to The Rambler, No. 41 (not 42 as Boswell says), where Johnson mentions
'those vexations and anxieties with which all human enjoyments are polluted.'

[F-8] Bishop Sanderson described his soul as 'infinitely polluted with sin.' Walton's Lives,
ed. 1838, p. 396.

[F-9] Hume, writing in 1742 about his Essays Moral and Political, says:--

'Innys, the great bookseller in Paul's Church-yard, wonders there is not a new edition, for
that he cannot find copies for his customers.' J.H. Burton's Hume, i. 143.

[F-10] Nichols (Lit. Anec. ii. 554) says that, on Dec. 7,

'Johnson asked him whether any of the family of Faden the printer were living. Being told that
the geographer near Charing Cross was Faden's son, he said, after a short pause:--"I borrowed
a guinea of his father near thirty years ago; be so good as to take this, and pay it for me."'

[F-11] Nowhere does Hawkins more shew the malignancy of his character than in his attacks on
Johnson's black servant, and through him on Johnson. With the passage in which this offensive
caveat is found he brings his work to a close. At the first mention of Frank (Life, p. 328)
he says:--

'His first master had in great humanity made him a Christian, and his last for no assignable
reason, nay rather in despite of nature, and to unfit him for being useful according to his
capacity, determined to make him a scholar.'

But Hawkins was a brutal fellow. See ante, i. 27, note 2, and 28, note 1.

[F-12] Johnson had written to Taylor on Oct. 23 of this year:--

'"Coming down from a very restless night I found your letter, which made me a little angry.
You tell me that recovery is in my power. This indeed I should be glad to hear if I could once
believe it. But you mean to charge me with neglecting or opposing my own health. Tell me, therefore,
what I do that hurts me, and what I neglect that would help me." This letter is endorsed by
Taylor: "This is the last letter. My answer, which were (sic) the words of advice he gave to
Mr. Thrale the day he dyed, he resented extremely from me."' Mr. Alfred Morrison's Collection
of Autographs, &c., ii. 343.

'The words of advice' which were given to Mr. Thrale the day before the fatal fit seized him,
were that he should abstain from full meals. Ante, iv. 84, note 4. Johnson's resentment of
Taylor's advice may account for the absence of his name in his will.

[F-13] They were sold in 650 Lots, in a four days' sale. Besides the books there were 146 portraits,
of which 61 were framed and glazed. These prints in their frames were sold in lots of 4, 8,
and even 10 together, though certainly some of them--and perhaps many--were engravings from
Reynolds. The Catalogue of the sale is in the Bodleian Library.

APPENDIX G.

(Notes on Boswell's note on page 408.)

[G-1] Mrs. Piozzi records (Anecdotes, p. 120) that Johnson told her,--

'When Boyse was almost perishing with hunger, and some money was produced to purchase him a
dinner, he got a bit of roast beef, but could not eat it without ketch-up; and laid out the
last half-guinea he possessed in truffles and mushrooms, eating them in bed too, for want of
clothes, or even a shirt to sit up in.'

Hawkins (Life, p. 159) gives 1740 as the year of Boyse's destitution.

'He was,' he says, 'confined to a bed which had no sheets; here, to procure food, he wrote;
his posture sitting up in bed, his only covering a blanket, in which a hole was made to admit
of the employment of his arm.'

Two years later Boyse wrote the following verses to Cave from a spunging-house:--

      'Hodie, teste coelo summo,
       Sine pane, sine nummo,
       Sorte positus infeste,
       Scribo tibi dolens moeste.
       Fame, bile tumet jecur:
       Urbane, mitte opem, precor.
       Tibi enim cor humanum
       Non a malis alienum:
       Mihi mens nee male grato,
       Pro a te favore dato.
     Ex gehenna debitoria,
     Vulgo, domo spongiatoria.'

He adds that he hopes to have his Ode on the British Nation done that day. This Ode, which
is given in the Gent. Mag. 1742, p. 383, contains the following verse, which contrasts sadly
with the poor poet's case:--

     'Thou, sacred isle, amidst thy ambient main,
      Enjoyst the sweets of freedom all thy own.'

[G-2] It is not likely that Johnson called a sixpence 'a serious consideration.' He who in
his youth would not let his comrades say prodigious (ante/, in. 303) was not likely in his
old age so to misuse a word.

[G-3] Hugh Kelly is mentioned ante, ii. 48, note 2, and iii. 113.

[G-4] It was not on the return from Sky, but on the voyage from Sky to Rasay, that the spurs
were lost. Post, v. 163.

[G-5] Dr. White's Bampton Lectures of 1784 'became part of the triumphant literature of the
University of Oxford,' and got the preacher a Christ Church Canonry. Of these Lectures Dr.
Parr had written about one-fifth part. White, writing to Parr about a passage in the manuscript
of the last Lecture, said:--'I fear I did not clearly explain myself; I humbly beg the favour
of you to make my meaning more intelligible.' On the death of Mr. Badcock in 1788, a note for
£500 from White was found in his pocket-book. White pretended that this was remuneration for
some other work; but it was believed on good grounds that Badcock had begun what Parr had completed,
and that these famous Lectures were mainly their work. Badcock was one of the writers in the
Monthly Review. Johnstone's Life of Dr. Parr, i. 218-278. For Badcock's correspondence with
the editor of the Monthly Review, see Bodleian MS. Add. C. 90.

[G-6] 'Virgilium vidi tantum.' Ovid, Tristia, iv. 10. 51.

[G-7] Mackintosh says of Priestley:--'Frankness and disinterestedness in the avowal of his
opinion were his point of honour.' He goes on to point out that there was 'great mental power
in him wasted and scattered.' Life of Mackintosh, i. 349. See ante, ii. 124, and iv. 238 for
Johnson's opinion of Priestley.

[G-8] Badcock, in using the term 'index-scholar,' was referring no doubt to Pope's lines:--

'How Index-learning turns no student pale,
 Yet holds the eel of science by the tail.'

Dunciad, i. 279.

APPENDIX H.

(Notes on Boswell's note on pages 421-422.)

[H-1] The last lines of the inscription on this urn are borrowed, with a slight change, from
the last paragraph of the last Rambler/. (Johnson's Works, iii. 465, and ante, i. 226.) Johnson
visited Colonel Myddelton on August 29, 1774, in his Tour to Wales. See post, v. 453.

[H-2] Johnson, writing to Dr. Taylor on Sept. 3, 1783, said:--'I sat to Opey (sic) as long
as he desired, and I think the head is finished, but it is not much admired.' Notes and Queries,
6th S. v. 481. Hawkins (Life of Johnson, p. 569) says that in 1784 'Johnson resumed sitting
to Opie, but,' he adds, 'I believe the picture was never finished.'

[H-3] Of this picture, which was the one painted for Beauclerk (ante, p. 180), it is stated
in Johnson's Work, ed. 1787, xi. 204, that 'there is in it that appearance of a labouring working
mind, of an indolent reposing body, which he had to a very great degree.'

[H-4] It seems almost certain that the portrait of Johnson in the Common Room of University
College, Oxford, is this very mezzotinto. It was given to the College by Sir William Scott,
and it is a mezzotinto from Opie's portrait. It has been reproduced for this work, and will
be found facing page 244 of volume iii. Scott's inscription on the back of the frame is given
on page 245, note 3, of the same volume.

APPENDIX I.

(Page 424.)

Boswell most likely never knew that in the year 1790 Mr. Seward, in the name of Cadell the
publisher, had asked Parr to write a Life of Johnson. (Johnstone's Life of Parr, iv. 678.)
Parr, in his amusing vanity, was as proud of this Life as if he had written it. '"It would
have been," he said, "the third most learned work that has ever yet appeared. The most learned
work ever published I consider Bentley On the Epistles of Phalaris; the next Salmasius On the
Hellenistic Language." Alluding to Boswell's Life he continued, "Mine should have been, not
the droppings of his lips, but the history of his mind."' Field's Life of Parr, i. 164.

In the epitaph that he first sent in were found the words 'Probabili Poetae.'

'In arms,' wrote Parr, 'were all the Johnsonians: Malone, Steevens, Sir W. Scott, Windham,
and even Fox, all in arms. The epithet was cold. They do not understand it, and I am a Scholar,
not a Belles-Lettres man.'

Parr had wished to pass over all notice of Johnson's poetical character. To this, Malone said,
none of his friends of the Literary Club would agree. He pointed out also that Parr had not
noticed 'that part of Johnson's genius, which placed him on higher ground than perhaps any
other quality that can be named--the universality of his knowledge, the promptness of his mind
in producing it on all occasions in conversation, and the vivid eloquence with which he clothed
his thoughts, however suddenly called upon.' Parr, regardless of Johnson's rule that 'in lapidary
inscriptions a man is not upon oath' (ante, ii. 407), replied, that if he mentioned his conversation
he should have to mention also his roughness in contradiction, &c. As for the epithet probabili,
he 'never reflected upon it without almost a triumphant feeling in its felicity.' Nevertheless
he would change it into 'poetae sententiarum et verborum ponderibus admirabili.' Yet these
words, 'energetic and sonorous' though they were, 'fill one with a secret and invincible loathing,
because they tend to introduce into the epitaph a character of magnificence.' With every fresh
objection he rose in importance. He wrote for the approbation of real scholars of generations
yet unborn. 'That the epitaph was written by such or such a man will, from the publicity of
the situation, and the popularity of the subject, be long remembered.' Johnstone's Life of
Parr, iv. 694-712. No objection seems to have been raised to the five pompous lines of perplexing
dates and numerals in which no room is found even for Johnson's birth and birth-place.

'After I had written the epitaph,' wrote Parr to a friend, 'Sir Joshua Reynolds told me there
was a scroll. I was in a rage. A scroll! Why, Ned, this is vile modern contrivance. I wanted
one train of ideas. What could I do with the scroll? Johnson held it, and Johnson must speak
in it. I thought of this, his favourite maxim, in the Life of Milton, [Johnson's Works, vii. 77],

    "[Greek: Otti toi en megaroisi kakon t agathon te tetuktai.]."

In Homer [Odyssey, iv. 392] you know--and shewing the excellence of Moral Philosophy. There
Johnson and Socrates agree. Mr. Seward, hearing of my difficulty, and no scholar, suggested
the closing line in the Rambler [ante, i. 226, note 1]; had I looked there I should have anticipated
the suggestion. It is the closing line in Dionysius's Periegesis,

    "[Greek: Anton ek makaron antaxios eiae amoibae.]."

I adopted it, and gave Seward the praise. "Oh," quoth Sir William Scott, "[Greek: makaron]
is Heathenish, and the Dean and Chapter will hesitate." "The more fools they," said I. But
to prevent disputes I have altered it.

    "[Greek: En makaressi ponon antaxios ein amoibae]."
                  Johnstone's Life of Parr, iv. 713.

Though the inscription on the scroll is not strictly speaking part of the epitaph, yet this
mixture of Greek and Latin is open to the censure Johnson passed on Pope's Epitaph on Craggs.

'It may be proper to remark,' he said, 'the absurdity of joining in the same inscription Latin
and English, or verse and prose. If either language be preferable to the other, let that only
be used; for no reason can be given why part of the information should be given in one tongue
and part in another on a tomb more than in any other place, or on any other occasion.' Johnson's
Works, viii. 353.

Bacon the sculptor was anxious, wrote Malone, 'that posterity should know that he was entitled
to annex R.A. to his name.' Parr was ready to give his name, lest if it were omitted 'Bacon
should slily put the figure of a hog on Johnson's monument'; just as 'Saurus and Batrachus,
when Octavia would not give them leave to set their names on the Temples they had built in
Rome, scattered one of them [Greek: saurai] [lizards], and the other [Greek: batrachoi] [frogs]
on the bases and capitals of the columns.' But as for the R.A., the sculptor 'very reluctantly
had to agree to its omission.' Johnstone's Parr, iv. 705 and 710.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Nothing can compensate for this want this year of all years. Johnson's health was better
than it had been for long, and his mind happier perhaps than it had ever been. The knowledge
that in his Lives of the Poets, he had done, and was doing good work, no doubt was very cheering
to him. At no time had he gone more into society, and at no time does he seem to have enjoyed
it with greater relish. 'How do you think I live?' he wrote on April 25. 'On Thursday, I dined
with Hamilton, and went thence to Mrs. Ord. On Friday, with much company at Reynolds's. On
Saturday, at Dr. Bell's. On Sunday, at Dr. Burney's; at night, came Mrs. Ord, Mr. Greville,
&c. On Monday with Reynolds, at night with Lady Lucan; to-day with Mr. Langton; to-morrow with
the Bishop of St. Asaph; on Thursday with Mr. Bowles; Friday ----; Saturday, at the Academy;
Sunday with Mr. Ramsay.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 107. On May 1, he wrote:--'At Mrs. Ord's, I met
one Mrs. B---- [Buller], a travelled lady, of great spirit, and some consciousness of her own
abilities. We had a contest of gallantry an hour long, so much to the diversion of the company
that at Ramsay's last night, in a crowded room, they would have pitted us again. There were
Smelt, [one of the King's favourites] and the Bishop of St. Asaph, who comes to every place;
and Lord Monboddo, and Sir Joshua, and ladies out of tale.' Ib. p. 111. The account that Langton
gives of the famous evening at Mrs. Vesey's, 'when the company began to collect round Johnson
till they became not less than four, if not five deep (ante, May 2, 1780), is lively enough;
but 'the particulars of the conversation' which he neglects, Boswell would have given us in full.

[2] In 1792, Miss Burney, after recording that Boswell told some of his Johnsonian stories,
continues:--'Mr. Langton told some stories in imitation of Dr. Johnson; but they became him
less than Mr. Boswell, and only reminded me of what Dr. Johnson himself once said to me--"Every
man has some time in his life an ambition to be a wag."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, v. 307.

[3] Stephanorum Historia, vitas ipsorum ac libros complectens. London, 1709.

[4] Senilia was published in 1742. The line to which Johnson refers is, 'Mel, nervos, fulgur,
Carteret, unus, habes,' p. 101. In another line, the poet celebrates Colley Cibber's Muse--the
Musa Cibberi: 'Multa Cibberum levat aura.' p. 50. See Macaulay's Essays, ed. 1843, i. 367.

[5] Graecae Linguae Dialecti in Scholae Westmonast. usum, 1738.

[6] Giannone, an Italian historian, born 1676, died 1748. When he published his History of
the Kingdom of Naples, a friend congratulating him on its success, said:--'Mon ami, vous vous
êtes mis une couronne sur la tête, mais une couronne d'épines.' His attacks on the Church led
to persecution, in the end he made a retractation, but nevertheless he died in prison. Nouv.
Biog. Gén. xx. 422.

[7] See ante, ii. 119.

[9] Johnson, in his Dictionary, defines Anfractuousness as Fulness of windings and turnings.
Anfractuosity is not given. Lord Macaulay, in the last sentence in his Biography of Johnson,
alludes to this passage.

[10] See ante, iii. 149, note 2.

[11] 'My purpose was to admit no testimony of living authors, that I might not be misled by
partiality, and that none of my contemporaries might have reason to complain; nor have I departed
from this resolution, but when some performance of uncommon excellence excited my veneration,
when my memory supplied me from late books with an example that was wanting, or when my heart,
in the tenderness of friendship, solicited admission for a favourite name.' Johnson's Works,
v. 39. He cites himself under important, Mrs. Lennox under talent, Garrick under giggler; from
Richardson's Clarissa, he makes frequent quotations. In the fourth edition, published in 1773
(ante, ii. 203), he often quotes Reynolds; for instance, under vulgarism, which word is not
in the previous editions. Beattie he quotes under weak, and Gray under bosom. He introduces
also many quotations from Law, and Young. In the earlier editions, in his quotations from Clarissa,
he very rarely gives the author's name; in the fourth edition I have found it rarely omitted.

[12] In one of his Hypochondriacks (London Mag. 1782, p. 233) Boswell writes:--'I have heard
it remarked by one, of whom more remarks deserve to be remembered than of any person I ever
knew, that a man is often as narrow as he is prodigal for want of counting.'

[13] 'Sept. 1778. We began talking of Irene, and Mrs. Thrale made Dr. Johnson read some passages
which I had been remarking as uncommonly applicable to the present time. He read several speeches,
and told us he had not ever read so much of it before since it was first printed.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, i. 96. 'I was told,' wrote Sir Walter Scott, 'that a gentleman called Pot, or some such
name, was introduced to him as a particular admirer of his. The Doctor growled and took no
further notice. "He admires in especial your Irene as the finest tragedy modern times;" to
which the Doctor replied, "If Pot says so, Pot lies!" and relapsed into his reverie.' Croker
Corres. ii. 32.

[14] Scrupulosity was a word that Boswell had caught up from Johnson. Sir W. Jones (Life, i.
177) wrote in 1776:--'You will be able to examine with the minutest scrupulosity, as Johnson
would call it.' Johnson describes Addison's prose as 'pure without scrupulosity.' Works, vii.
472. 'Swift,' he says, 'washed himself with oriental scrupulosity.' Ib. viii. 222.

[16] Secretary to the British Herring Fishery, remarkable for an extraordinary number of occasional
verses, not of eminent merit. BOSWELL. See ante, i. 115, note i. Lockman was known in France
as the translator of Voltaire's La Henriade. See Marmontel's Preface. Voltaire's Works, ed.
1819, viii. 18.

[17] Luke vii. 50. BOSWELL.

[18] Miss Burney, describing him in 1783, says:--'He looks unformed in his manners and awkward
in his gestures. He joined not one word in the general talk.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 237.
See ante, ii. 41, note 1.

[19] By Garrick.

[20] See ante, i. 201.

[21] See post, under Sept. 30, 1783.

[22] The actor. Churchill introduces him in The Rosciad (Poems, i. 16):--'Next Holland came.
With truly tragic stalk, He creeps, he flies. A Hero should not walk.'

[23] In a letter written by Johnson to a friend in 1742-43, he says: 'I never see Garrick.' MALONE.

[24] See ante, ii. 227.

[25] The Wonder! A Woman keeps a Secret, by Mrs. Centlivre. Acted at Drury Lane in 1714. Revived
by Garrick in 1757. Reed's Biog. Dram. iii. 420.

[26] In Macbeth.

[27] Mr. Longley was Recorder of Rochester, and father of Archbishop Longley. To the kindness
of his grand-daughter, Mrs. Newton Smart, I owe the following extract from his manuscript Autobiography:--'Dr.
Johnson and General Paoli came down to visit Mr. Langton, and I was asked to meet them, when
the conversation took place mentioned by Boswell, in which Johnson gave me more credit for
knowledge of the Greek metres than I deserved. There was some question about anapaestics, concerning
which I happened to remember what Foster used to tell us at Eton, that the whole line to the
Basis Anapaestica was considered but as one verse, however divided in the printing, and consequently
the syllables at the end of each line were not common, as in other metres. This observation
was new to Johnson, and struck him. Had he examined me farther, I fear he would have found
me ignorant. Langton was a very good Greek scholar, much superior to Johnson, to whom nevertheless
he paid profound deference, sometimes indeed I thought more than he deserved. The next day
I dined at Langton's with Johnson, I remember Lady Rothes [Langton's wife] spoke of the advantage
children now derived from the little books published purposely for their instruction. Johnson
controverted it, asserting that at an early age it was better to gratify curiosity with wonders
than to attempt planting truth, before the mind was prepared to receive it, and that therefore,
Jack the Giant-Killer, Parisenus and Parismenus, and The Seven Champions of Christendom were
fitter for them than Mrs. Barbauld and Mrs. Trimmer.' Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 16) says:--'Dr.
Johnson used to condemn me for putting Newbery's books into children's hands. "Babies do not
want," said he, "to hear about babies; they like to be told of giants and castles, and of somewhat
which can stretch and stimulate their little minds." When I would urge the numerous editions
of Tommy Prudent or Goody Two Shoes; "Remember always," said he, "that the parents buy the
books, and that the children never read them.'" For Johnson's visit to Rochester, see post,
July, 1783.

[28] See post, beginning of 1781, after The Life of Swift, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 15.

[29] See ante, under Sept. 9, 1779.

[30] Johnson wrote of this grotto (Works, viii. 270):--'It may be frequently remarked of the
studious and speculative that they are proud of trifles, and that their amusements seem frivolous
and childish.'

[31] See ante, i. 332.

[32] Epilogue to the Satires, i. 131. Dr. James Foster, the Nonconformist preacher. Johnson
mentions 'the reputation which he had gained by his proper delivery.' Works, viii. 384. In
The Conversations of Northcote, p. 88, it is stated that 'Foster first became popular from
the Lord Chancellor Hardwicke stopping in the porch of his chapel in the Old Jewry out of a
shower of rain: and thinking he might as well hear what was going on he went in, and was so
well pleased that he sent all the great folks to hear him, and he was run after as much as
Irving has been in our time.' Dr. T. Campbell (Diary, p. 34) recorded in 1775, that 'when Mrs.
Thrale quoted something from Foster's Sermons, Johnson flew in a passion, and said that Foster
was a man of mean ability, and of no original thinking.' Gibbon (Misc. Works, v. 300) wrote
of Foster:--'Wonderful! a divine preferring reason to faith, and more afraid of vice than of
heresy.'

[33] It is believed to have been her play of The Sister, brought out in 1769. 'The audience
expressed their disapprobation of it with so much appearance of prejudice that she would not
suffer an attempt to exhibit it a second time.' Gent. Mag. xxxix. 199. It is strange, however,
if Goldsmith was asked to hiss a play for which he wrote the epilogue. Goldsmith's Misc. Works,
ii. 80. Johnson wrote on Oct. 28, 1779 (Piozzi Letters, ii. 72):--'C---- L---- accuses ----
of making a party against her play. I always hissed away the charge, supposing him a man of
honour; but I shall now defend him with less confidence.' Baretti, in a marginal note, says
that C---- L---- is 'Charlotte Lennox.' Perhaps ---- stands for Cumberland. Miss Burney said
that 'Mr. Cumberland is notorious for hating and envying and spiting all authors in the dramatic
line.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 272.

[34] See ante, i. 255.

[35] In The Rambler, No. 195, Johnson describes rascals such as this man. 469.

[37] Dr. Percy told Malone 'that they all at the Club had such a high opinion of Mr. Dyer's
knowledge and respect for his judgment as to appeal to him constantly, and that his sentence
was final.' Malone adds that 'he was so modest and reserved, that he frequently sat silent
in company for an hour, and seldom spoke unless appealed to. Goldsmith, who used to rattle
away upon all subjects, had been talking somewhat loosely relative to music. Some one wished
for Mr. Dyer's opinion, which he gave with his usual strength and accuracy. "Why," said Goldsmith,
turning round to Dyer, whom he had scarcely noticed before, "you seem to know a good deal of
this matter." "If I had not," replied Dyer, "I should not, in this company, have said a word
upon the subject."' Burke described him as 'a man of profound and general erudition; his sagacity
and judgment were fully equal to the extent of his learning.' Prior's Malone, pp. 419, 424.
Malone in his Life of Dryden, p. 181, says that Dyer was Junius. Johnson speaks of him as 'the
late learned Mr. Dyer.' Works, viii. 385. Had he been alive he was to have been the professor
of mathematics in the imaginary college at St. Andrews. Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 25. Many years
after his death, Johnson bought his portrait to hang in 'a little room that he was fitting
up with prints.' Croker's Boswell, p. 639.

[38] Memoirs of Agriculture and other Oeconomical Arts, 3 vols., by Robert Dossie, London, 1768-82.

[39] See ante, ii. 14.

[40] Here Lord Macartney remarks, 'A Bramin or any cast of the Hindoos will neither admit you
to be of their religion, nor be converted to yours;--a thing which struck the Portuguese with
the greatest astonishment, when they first discovered the East Indies.' BOSWELL.

[41] See ante, ii. 250.

[42] See ante, Aug. 30, 1780.

[43] John, Lord Carteret, and Earl Granville, who died Jan. 2, 1763. It is strange that he
wrote so ill; for Lord Chesterfield says (Misc. Works, iv. Appendix, p. 42) that 'he had brought
away with him from Oxford, a great stock of Greek and Latin, and had made himself master of
all the modern languages. He was one of the best speakers in the House of Lords, both in the
declamatory and argumentative way.'

[44] Walpole describes the partiality of the members of the court-martial that sat on Admiral
Keppel in Jan. 1779. One of them 'declared frankly that he should not attend to forms of law,
but to justice.' So friendly were the judges to the prisoner that 'it required the almost unanimous
voice of the witnesses in favour of his conduct, and the vile arts practised against him, to
convince all mankind how falsely and basely he had been accused.' Walpole, referring to the
members, speaks of 'the feelings of seamen unused to reason.' Some of the leading politicians
established themselves at Portsmouth during the trial. Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 329

[45] See ante, ii. 240.

[46] In all Gray's Odes, there is a kind of cumbrous splendour which we wish away.... The mind
of the writer seems to work with unnatural violence. "Double, double, toil and trouble." He
has a kind of strutting dignity, and is tall by walking on tip-toe. His art and his struggle
are too visible, and there is too little appearance of ease and nature.' Johnson's Works, viii.
484-87. See ante, i. 402, and ii. 327, 335.

[47] One evening, in the Haymarket Theatre, 'when Foote lighted the King to his chair, his
majesty asked who [sic] the piece was written by? "By one of your Majesty's chaplains," said
Foote, unable even then to suppress his wit; "and dull enough to have been written by a bishop."'
Forster's Essays, ii. 435. See ante, i. 390, note 3.

[48] Bk. v. ch. 1.

[49] See ante, ii. 133, note 1; Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 27, and Oct. 28.

[50] The correspondent of The Gentleman's Magazine [1792, p. 214] who subscribes himself SCIOLUS
furnishes the following supplement:--

'A lady of my acquaintance remembers to have heard her uncle sing those homely stanzas more
than forty-five years ago. He repeated the second thus:--

     She shall breed young lords and ladies fair,
     And ride abroad in a coach and three pair,
     And the best, &c.
     And have a house, &c.

And remembered a third which seems to have been the introductory one, and is believed to have
been the only remaining one:--

     When the Duke of Leeds shall have made his choice
     Of a charming young lady that's beautiful and wise,
     She'll be the happiest young gentlewoman under the skies,
     As long as the sun and moon shall rise,
     And how happy shall, &c.

It is with pleasure I add that this stanza could never be more truly applied than at this present
time. BOSWELL. This note was added to the second edition.

[51] See ante, i. 115, note 1.

[52] See ante, i. 82.

[53] Baretti, in a MS. note on Piozzi Letters, i. 121, says:--'Johnson was a real true-born
Englishman. He hated the Scotch, the French, the Dutch, the Hanoverians, and had the greatest
contempt for all other European nations; such were his early prejudices which he never attempted
to conquer.' Reynolds wrote of Johnson:--'The prejudices he had to countries did not extend
to individuals. In respect to Frenchmen he rather laughed at himself, but it was insurmountable.
He considered every foreigner as a fool till they had convinced him of the contrary.' Taylor's
Reynolds, ii. 460. Garrick wrote of the French in 1769:--'Their politesse has reduced their
character to such a sameness, and their humours and passions are so curbed by habit, that,
when you have seen half-a-dozen French men and women, you have seen the whole.' Garrick Corres.
i. 358.

[54] 'There is not a man or woman here,' wrote Horace Walpole from Paris (Letters iv. 434),
'that is not a perfect old nurse, and who does not talk gruel and anatomy with equal fluency
and ignorance.'

[55] '"I remember that interview well," said Dr. Parr with great vehemence when once reminded
of it; "I gave him no quarter." The subject of our dispute was the liberty of the press. Dr.
Johnson was very great. Whilst he was arguing, I observed that he stamped. Upon this I stamped.
Dr. Johnson said, "Why did you stamp, Dr. Parr?" I replied, "Because you stamped; and I was
resolved not to give you the advantage even of a stamp in the argument."' This, Parr said,
was by no means his first introduction to Johnson. Field's Parr, i. 161. Parr wrote to Romilly
in 1811:--'Pray let me ask whether you have ever read some admirable remarks of Mr. Hutcheson
upon the word merit. I remember a controversy I had with Dr. Johnson upon this very term: we
began with theology fiercely, I gently carried the conversation onward to philosophy, and after
a dispute of more than three hours he lost sight of my heresy, and came over to my opinion
upon the metaphysical import of the term.' Life of Romilly, ii. 365. When Parr was a candidate
for the mastership of Colchester Grammar School, Johnson wrote for him a letter of recommendation.
Johnstone's Parr, i. 94.

[56] 'Somebody was praising Corneille one day in opposition to Shakespeare. "Corneille is to
Shakespeare," replied Mr. Johnson, "as a clipped hedge is to a forest."' Piozzi's Anec. p. 59.

[57] Johnson, it is clear, discusses here Mrs. Montagu's Essay on Shakespeare. She compared
Shakespeare first with Corneille, and then with Aeschylus. In contrasting the ghost in Hamlet
with the shade of Darius in The Persians, she says:--'The phantom, who was to appear ignorant
of what was past, that the Athenian ear might be soothed and flattered with the detail of their
victory at Salamis, is allowed, for the same reason, such prescience as to foretell their future
triumph at Plataea.' p. 161.

[58] Caution is required in everything which is laid before youth, to secure them from unjust
prejudices, perverse opinions, and incongruous combinations of images. In the romances formerly
written, every transaction and sentiment was so remote from all that passes among men, that
the reader was in very little danger of making any applications to himself.' The Rambler, No. 4.

[59] Johnson says of Pope's Ode for St. Cecilia's Day:--'The next stanzas place and detain
us in the dark and dismal regions of mythology, where neither hope nor fear, neither joy nor
sorrow can be found.' Works, viii. 328. Of Gray's Progress of Poetry, he says:--'The second
stanza, exhibiting Mars' car and Jove's eagle, is unworthy of further notice. Criticism disdains
to chase a school-boy to his common-places.' Ib. p. 484.

[60] See ante, ii. 178.

[61]

     'A Wizard-Dame, the Lover's ancient friend,
      With magic charm has deaft thy husband's ear,
      At her command I saw the stars descend,
      And winged lightnings stop in mid career, &c.'

Hammond. Elegy, v. In Boswell's Hebrides (Sept. 29), he said 'Hammond's Love Elegies were poor
things.'

[62] Perhaps Lord Corke and Orrery. Ante, iii. 183. CROKER.

[63] Colman assumed that Johnson had maintained that Shakespeare was totally ignorant of the
learned languages. He then quotes a line to prove 'that the author of The Taming of the Shrew
had at least read Ovid;' and continues:--'And what does Dr. Johnson say on this occasion? Nothing.
And what does Mr. Farmer say on this occasion? Nothing.' Colman's Terence, ii. 390. For Farmer,
see ante, iii. 38.

[64] 'It is most likely that Shakespeare had learned Latin sufficiently to make him acquainted
with construction, but that he never advanced to an easy perusal of the Roman authors.' Johnson's
Works, V. 129. 'The style of Shakespeare was in itself ungrammatical, perplexed, and obscure.'
Ib. p. 135.

[65]

     'May I govern my passion with
        an absolute sway,
      And grow wiser and better, as
        my strength wears away,
      Without gout or stone by a
        gentle decay.'

The Old Man's Wish was sung to Sir Roger de Coverley by 'the fair one,' after the collation
in which she ate a couple of chickens, and drank a full bottle of wine. Spectator, No. 410.
'What signifies our wishing?' wrote Dr. Franklin. 'I have sung that wishing song a thousand
times when I was young, and now find at fourscore that the three contraries have befallen me,
being subject to the gout and the stone, and not being yet master of all my passions.' Franklin's
Memoirs, iii. 185.

[66] He uses the same image in The Life of Milton (Works, vii. 104):--'He might still be a
giant among the pigmies, the one-eyed monarch of the blind.' Cumberland (Memoirs, i. 39) says
that Bentley, hearing it maintained that Barnes spoke Greek almost like his mother tongue,
replied:--'Yes, I do believe that Barnes had as much Greek and understood it about as well
as an Athenian blacksmith.' See ante, iii 284. A passage in Wooll's Life of Dr. Warton (i.
313) shews that Barnes attempted to prove that Homer and Solomon were one and the same man.
But I. D'Israeli says that it was reported that Barnes, not having money enough to publish
his edition of Homer, 'wrote a poem, the design of which is to prove that Solomon was the author
of the Iliad, to interest his wife, who had some property, to lend her aid towards the publication
of so divine a work.' Calamities of Authors, i. 250.

[67] 'The first time Suard saw Burke, who was at Reynolds's, Johnson touched him on the shoulder
and said, "Le grand Burke."' Boswelliana, p. 299. See ante, ii. 450.

[68] Miss Hawkins (Memoirs, i. 279, 288) says that Langton told her father that he meant to
give his six daughters such a knowledge of Greek, 'that while five of them employed themselves
in feminine works, the sixth should read a Greek author for the general amusement.' She describes
how 'he would get into the most fluent recitation of half a page of Greek, breaking off for
fear of wearying, by saying, "and so it goes on," accompanying his words with a gentle wave
of his hand.'

[69] See post, p. 42.

[70] See ante, i. 326.

[71] This assertion concerning Johnson's insensibility to the pathetick powers of Otway, is
too round. I once asked him, whether he did not think Otway frequently tender: when he answered,
'Sir, he is all tenderness.' BURNEY. He describes Otway as 'one of the first names in the English
drama.' Works, vii. 173.

[72] See ante, April 16, 1779.

[73] Johnson; it seems, took up this study. In July, 1773, he recorded that between Easter
and Whitsuntide, he attempted to learn the Low Dutch language. 'My application,' he continues,
'was very slight, and my memory very fallacious, though whether more than in my earlier years,
I am not very certain.' Pr. and Med. p. 129, and ante, ii. 263. On his death-bed, he said to
Mr. Hoole:--'About two years since I feared that I had neglected God, and that then I had not
a mind to give him; on which I set about to read Thomas à Kempis in Low Dutch, which I accomplished,
and thence I judged that my mind was not impaired, Low Dutch having no affinity with any of
the languages which I knew.' Croker's Boswell, p. 844. See ante, iii. 235.

[74] See post, under July 5, 1783.

[75] See ante, ii. 409, and iii. 197.

[76] One of Goldsmith's friends 'remembered his relating [about the year 1756] a strange Quixotic
scheme he had in contemplation of going to decipher the inscriptions on the written mountains,
though he was altogether ignorant of Arabic, or the language in which they might be supposed
to be written.' Goldsmith's Misc. Works, ed. 1801, i. 40. Percy says that Goldsmith applied
to the prime minister, Lord Bute, for a salary to enable him to execute 'the visionary project'
mentioned in the text. 'To prepare the way, he drew up that ingenious essay on this subject
which was first printed in the Ledger, and afterwards in his Citizen of the World [No. 107].'
Ib. p. 65. Percy adds that the Earl of Northumberland, who was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland,
regretted 'that he had not been made acquainted with his plan; for he would have procured him
a sufficient salary on the Irish establishment.' Goldsmith, in his review of Van Egmont's Travels
in Asia, says:--'Could we see a man set out upon this journey [to Asia] not with an intent
to consider rocks and rivers, but the manners, and the mechanic inventions, and the imperfect
learning of the inhabitants; resolved to penetrate into countries as yet little known, and
eager to pry into all their secrets, with an heart not terrified at trifling dangers; if there
could be found a man who could unite this true courage with sound learning, from such a character
we might hope much information.' Goldsmith's Works, ed. 1854, iv. 225. Johnson would have gone
to Constantinople, as he himself said, had he received his pension twenty years earlier. Post,
p. 27.

[77] It should be remembered, that this was said twenty-five or thirty years ago, [written
in 1799,] when lace was very generally worn. MALONE. 'Greek and Latin,' said Porson, 'are only
luxuries.' Rogers's Table Talk, p. 325.

[78] See ante, iii. 8.

[79] Dr. Johnson, in his Life of Cowley, says, that these are 'the only English verses which
Bentley is known to have written.' I shall here insert them, and hope my readers will apply them.

     'Who strives to mount Parnassus' hill,
        And thence poetick laurels bring,
      Must first acquire due force and skill,
        Must fly with swan's or eagle's wing.

      Who Nature's treasures would explore,
        Her mysteries and arcana know;
      Must high as lofty Newton soar,
        Must stoop as delving Woodward low.

      Who studies ancient laws and rites,
        Tongues, arts, and arms, and history;
      Must drudge, like Selden, days and nights,
        And in the endless labour die.

      Who travels in religious jars,
        (Truth mixt with errour, shades with rays;)
      Like Whiston, wanting pyx or stars,
        In ocean wide or sinks or strays.

      But grant our hero's hope, long toil
        And comprehensive genius crown,
      All sciences, all arts his spoil,
        Yet what reward, or what renown?

      Envy, innate in vulgar souls,
        Envy steps in and stops his rise,
      Envy with poison'd tarnish fouls
        His lustre, and his worth decries.

      He lives inglorious or in want,
        To college and old books confin'd;
      Instead of learn'd he's call'd pedant,
        Dunces advanc'd, he's left behind:
      Yet left content a genuine Stoick he,
      Great without patron, rich without South Sea.' BOSWELL.

In Mr. Croker's octavo editions, arts in the fifth stanza is changed into hearts. J. Boswell,
jun., gives the following reading of the first four lines of the last stanza, not from Dodsley's
Collection, but from an earlier one, called The Grove.

     'Inglorious or by wants inthralled,
        To college and old books confined,
      A pedant from his learning called,
        Dunces advanced, he's left behind.'

[80] Bentley, in the preface to his edition of Paradise Lost, says:--

     'Sunt et mihi carmina; me quoque dicunt
      Vatem pastores: sed non ego credulus illis.'

[81] The difference between Johnson and Smith is apparent even in this slight instance. Smith
was a man of extraordinary application, and had his mind crowded with all manner of subjects;
but the force, acuteness, and vivacity of Johnson were not to be found there. He had book-making
so much in his thoughts, and was so chary of what might be turned to account in that way, that
he once said to Sir Joshua Reynolds, that he made it a rule, when in company, never to talk
of what he understood. Beauclerk had for a short time a pretty high opinion of Smith's conversation.
Garrick, after listening to him for a while, as to one of whom his expectations had been raised,
turned slyly to a friend, and whispered him, 'What say you to this?--eh? flabby, I think.'
BOSWELL. Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 279), says:--'Smith's voice was harsh and enunciation thick,
approaching to stammering. His conversation was not colloquial, but like lecturing. He was
the most absent man in company that I ever saw, moving his lips, and talking to himself, and
smiling in the midst of large companies. If you awaked him from his reverie and made him attend
to the subject of conversation, he immediately began a harangue, and never stopped till he
told you all he knew about it, with the utmost philosophical ingenuity.' Dugald Stewart (Life
of Adam Smith, p. 117) says that 'his consciousness of his tendency to absence rendered his
manner somewhat embarrassed in the company of strangers.' But 'to his intimate friends, his
peculiarities added an inexpressible charm to his conversation, while they displayed in the
most interesting light the artless simplicity of his heart.' Ib. p. 113. See also Walpole's
Letters, vi. 302, and ante, ii. 430, note 1.

[82] Garrick himself was a good deal of an infidel: see ante, ii. 85, note 7.

[83] Ante, i. 181.

[84] The Tempest, act iv. sc. i. In The Rambler, No. 127, Johnson writes of men who have 'borne
opposition down before them, and left emulation panting behind.' He quotes (Works, vii. 261)
the following couplet by Dryden:--

     'Fate after him below with pain did move,
      And victory could scarce keep pace above.'

Young in The Last Day, book I, had written:--

     'Words all in vain pant after the distress.'

[85] I am sorry to see in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. ii, An Essay
on the Character of Hamlet, written, I should suppose, by a very young man, though called 'Reverend;'
who speaks with presumptuous petulance of the first literary character of his age. Amidst a
cloudy confusion of words, (which hath of late too often passed in Scotland for Metaphysicks,)
he thus ventures to criticise one of the noblest lines in our language:--'Dr. Johnson has remarked,
that "time toil'd after him in vain." But I should apprehend, that this is entirely to mistake
the character. Time toils after every great man, as well after Shakspeare. The workings of
an ordinary mind keep pace, indeed, with time; they move no faster; they have their beginning,
their middle, and their end; but superiour natures can reduce these into a point. They do not,
indeed, suppress them; but they suspend, or they lock them up in the breast.' The learned Society,
under whose sanction such gabble is ushered into the world, would do well to offer a premium
to any one who will discover its meaning. BOSWELL.

[86] 'May 29, 1662. Took boat and to Fox-hall, where I had not been a great while. To the old
Spring Garden, and there walked long.' Pepys's Diary, i. 361. The place was afterwards known
as Faux-hall and Vauxhall. See ante, iii. 308.

[87] 'One that wouldst be a bawd, in way of good service and art nothing but the composition
of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar.' King Lear, act ii. sc. 2.

[88] Yet W.G. Hamilton said:--'Burke understands everything but gaming and music. In the House
of Commons I sometimes think him only the second man in England; out of it he is always the
first.' Prior's Burke, p. 484. See ante, ii. 450. Bismarck once 'rang the bell' to old Prince
Metternich. 'I listened quietly,' he said, 'to all his stories, merely jogging the bell every
now and then till it rang again. That pleases these talkative old men.' DR. BUSCH, quoted in
Lowe's Prince Bismarck, i. 130.

[89] See ante, i. 470, for his disapproval of 'studied behaviour.'

[90] Johnson had perhaps Dr. Warton in mind. Ante, ii. 41, note 1.

[91] See ante, i. 471, and iii. 165.

[92] 'Oblivion is a kind of annihilation.' Sir Thomas Browne's Christian Morals, sect. xxi.

[93] 'Nec te quaesiveris extra.' Persius, Sat. i. 7. We may compare Milton's line,

     'In himself was all his state.'
      Paradise Lost, v. 353.

[94] See ante, iii. 269.

[95] 'A work of this kind must, in a minute examination, discover many imperfections; but West's
version, so far as I have considered it, appears to be the product of great labour and great
abilities.' Johnson's Works, viii. 398.

[96] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 25, 1773.

[97] See ante, i. 82, and ii. 228.

[98] See ante, i. 242.

[99] See Boswell's Hebrides, under Nov. 11.

[100] A literary lady has favoured me with a characteristick anecdote of Richardson. One day
at his country-house at Northend, where a large company was assembled at dinner, a gentleman
who was just returned from Paris, willing to please Mr. Richardson, mentioned to him a very
flattering circumstance,--that he had seen his Clarissa lying on the King's brother's table.
Richardson observing that part of the company were engaged in talking to each other, affected
then not to attend to it. But by and by, when there was a general silence, and he thought that
the flattery might be fully heard, he addressed himself to the gentleman, 'I think, Sir, you
were saying something about,--' pausing in a high flutter of expectation. The gentleman provoked
at his inordinate vanity, resolved not to indulge it, and with an exquisitely sly air of indifference
answered, 'A mere trifle Sir, not worth repeating.' The mortification of Richardson was visible,
and he did not speak ten words more the whole day. Dr. Johnson was present, and appeared to
enjoy it much. BOSWELL. Horace Walpole wrote on Aug. 4,1768 (Letters, v. 115):--'We have lost
our Pope. Canterbury [Archbishop Seeker] died yesterday. He had never been a Papist, but almost
everything else. Our Churchmen will not be Catholics; that stock seems quite fallen.'

[102] Perhaps the Earl of Corke. Ante, iii. 183.

[103] Garrick perhaps borrowed this saying when, in his epigram on Goldsmith, speaking of the
ideas of which his head was full, he said:--

     'When his mouth opened all were in a pother,
      Rushed to the door and tumbled o'er each other,
      But rallying soon with all their force again,
      In bright array they issued from his pen.'

Fitzgerald's Garrick, ii. 363. See ante, ii. 231.

[104] See ante, i. 116, and ii. 52.

[105] Horace Walpole (Letters, ix. 318) writes of Boswell's Life of Johnson:--'Dr. Blagden
says justly, that it is a new kind of libel, by which you may abuse anybody, by saying some
dead person said so and so of somebody alive.'

[106] See ante, ii. III. In the Gent. Mag. 1770, p. 78, is a review of A Letter to Samuel Johnson,
LL.D., 'that is generally imputed to Mr. Wilkes.'

[107] 'Do you conceive the full force of the word CONSTITUENT? It has the same relation to
the House of Commons as Creator to creature.' A Letter to Samuel Johnson, LL.D., p. 23.

[108] His profound admiration of the GREAT FIRST CAUSE was such as to set him above that 'Philosophy
and vain deceit' [Colossians, ii. 8] with which men of narrower conceptions have been infected.
I have heard him strongly maintain that 'what is right is not so from any natural fitness,
but because GOD wills it to be right;' and it is certainly so, because he has predisposed the
relations of things so as that which he wills must be right. BOSWELL. Johnson was as much opposed
as the Rev. Mr. Thwackum to the philosopher Square, who 'measured all actions by the unalterable
rule of right and the eternal fitness of things.' Tom Jones, book iii. ch. 3.

[109] In Rasselas (ch. ii.) we read that the prince's look 'discovered him to receive some
solace of the miseries of life, from consciousness of the delicacy with which he felt, and
the eloquence with which he bewailed them.' See ante, April 8, 1780.

[110] I hope the authority of the great Master of our language will stop that curtailing innovation,
by which we see critic, public, &c., frequently written instead of critick, publick, &c. BOSWELL.
Boswell had always been nice in his spelling. In the Preface to his Corsica, published twenty-four
years before The Life of Johnson, he defends his peculiarities, and says:--'If this work should
at any future period be reprinted, I hope that care will be taken of my orthography.' Mr. Croker
says that in a memorandum in Johnson's writing he has found 'cubic feet.'

[111] 'Disorders of intellect,' answered Imlac, 'happen much more often than superficial observers
will easily believe. Perhaps, if we speak with rigorous exactness, no human mind is in its
right state.' Rasselas, ch. 44.

[112] See ante, i. 397, for Kit Smart's madness in praying.

[113] Yet he gave lessons in Latin to Miss Burney and Miss Thrale. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 243.

[114] See ante, iii, 240.

[115] Nos. 588, 601, 626 and 635. The first number of the Spectator was written by Addison,
the last by Grove. See ante, iii. 33, for Johnson's praise of No. 626.

[116] Sterne is of a direct contrary opinion. See his Sentimental Journey, Article, 'The Mystery.'
BOSWELL. Sterne had been of the same opinion as Johnson, for he says that the beggar he saw
'confounded all kind of reasoning upon him.' 'He passed by me,' he continues, 'without asking
anything--and yet he did not go five steps farther before he asked charity of a little woman--I
was much more likely to have given of the two. He had scarce done with the woman, when he pulled
his hat off to another who was coming the same way.--An ancient gentleman came slowly--and,
after him, a young smart one--He let them both pass, and asked nothing; I stood observing him
half an hour, in which time he had made a dozen turns backwards and forwards, and found that
he invariably pursued the same plan.' Sentimental Journey, ed. 1775, ii. 105.

[117] Very likely Dr. Warton. Ante, ii. 41.

[118] I differ from Mr. Croker in the explanation of this ill-turned sentence. The shield that
Homer may hold up is the observation made by Mrs. Fitzherbert. It was this observation that
Johnson respected as a very fine one. For his high opinion of that lady's understanding, see
ante, i. 83.

[119] In Boswelliana (p. 323) are recorded two more of Langton's Anecdotes. 'Mr. Beauclerk
told Dr. Johnson that Dr. James said to him he knew more Greek than Mr. Walmesley. "Sir," said
he, "Dr. James did not know enough of Greek to be sensible of his ignorance of the language.
Walmesley did."' See ante, i. 81. 'A certain young clergyman used to come about Dr. Johnson.
The Doctor said it vexed him to be in his company, his ignorance was so hopeless. "Sir," said
Mr. Langton, "his coming about you shows he wishes to help his ignorance." "Sir," said the
Doctor, "his ignorance is so great, I am afraid to show him the bottom of it."'

[120] Dr. Francklin. See ante, iii. 83, note 3. Churchill attacked him in The Rosciad (Poems,
ii. 4). When, he says, it came to the choice of a judge,

     'Others for Francklin voted; but 'twas known,
      He sickened at all triumphs but his own.'

[121] See ante, iii. 241, note 2.

[122] Pr. and Med. p.190. BOSWELL.

[123] Ib. 174. BOSWELL.

[124] 'Mr. Fowke once observed to Dr. Johnson that, in his opinion, the Doctor's literary strength
lay in writing biography, in which he infinitely exceeded all his contemporaries. "Sir," said
Johnson, "I believe that is true. The dogs don't know how to write trifles with dignity."'--R.
Warner's Original Letters, p. 204.

[125] His design is thus announced in his Advertisement: 'The Booksellers having determined
to publish a body of English Poetry, I was persuaded to promise them a Preface to the works
of each authour; an undertaking, as it was then presented to my mind, not very tedious or difficult.

'My purpose was only to have allotted to every poet an Advertisement, like that [in original
those] which we find in the French Miscellanies, containing a few dates, and a general character;
but I have been led beyond my intention, I hope by the honest desire of giving useful pleasure.'
BOSWELL.

[126] Institutiones, liber i, Prooemium 3.

[127] 'He had bargained for two hundred guineas, and the booksellers spontaneously added a
third hundred; on this occasion Dr. Johnson observed to me, "Sir, I always said the booksellers
were a generous set of men. Nor, in the present instance, have I reason to complain. The fact
is, not that they have paid me too little, but that I have written too much." The Lives were
soon published in a separate edition; when, for a very few corrections, he was presented with
another hundred guineas.' Nichols's Lit. Anec. viii. 416. See ante, iii. 111. In Mr. Morrison's
Collection of Autographs &c., vol. ii, 'is Johnson's receipt for 100l., from the proprietors
of The Lives of the Poets for revising the last edition of that work.' It is dated Feb. 19,
1783. 'Underneath, in Johnson's autograph, are these words: "It is great impudence to put Johnson's
Poets on the back of books which Johnson neither recommended nor revised. He recommended only
Blackmore on the Creation, and Watts. How then are they Johnson's? This is indecent."' The
poets whom Johnson recommended were Blackmore, Watts, Pomfret, and Yalden. Ante, under Dec.
29, 1778.

[128] Gibbon says of the last five quartos of the six that formed his History:--'My first rough
manuscript, without any intermediate copy, has been sent to the press.' Misc. Works, i. 255.
In the Memoir of Goldsmith, prefixed to his Misc. Works, i. 113, it is said:--'In whole quires
of his Histories, Animated Nature, &c., he had seldom occasion to correct or alter a single
word.' See ante, i. 203.

[129] From Waller's Of Loving at First Sight. Waller's Poems, Miscellanies, xxxiv.

[130] He trusted greatly to his memory. If it did not retain anything exactly, he did not think
himself bound to look it up. Thus in his criticism on Congreve (Works, viii. 31) he says:--'Of
his plays I cannot speak distinctly; for since I inspected them many years have passed.' In
a note on his Life of Rowe, Nichols says:--'This Life is a very remarkable instance of the
uncommon strength of Dr. Johnson's memory. When I received from him the MS. he complacently
observed that the criticism was tolerably well done, considering that he had not read one of
Rowe's plays for thirty years.' Ib. vii. 417.

[131] Thus:--'In the Life of Waller, Mr. Nichols will find a reference to the Parliamentary
History from which a long quotation is to be inserted. If Mr. Nichols cannot easily find the
book, Mr. Johnson will send it from Streatham.'

'Clarendon is here returned.'

'By some accident, I laid your note upon Duke up so safely, that I cannot find it. Your informations
have been of great use to me. I must beg it again; with another list of our authors, for I
have laid that with the other. I have sent Stepney's Epitaph. Let me have the revises as soon
as can be. Dec. 1778.'

'I have sent Philips, with his Epitaphs, to be inserted. The fragment of a preface is hardly
worth the impression, but that we may seem to do something. It may be added to the Life of
Philips. The Latin page is to be added to the Life of Smith. I shall be at home to revise the
two sheets of Milton. March 1, 1779.'

'Please to get me the last edition of Hughes's Letters; and try to get Dennis upon Blackmore,
and upon Calo, and any thing of the same writer against Pope. Our materials are defective.'

'As Waller professed to have imitated Fairfax, do you think a few pages of Fairfax would enrich
our edition? Few readers have seen it, and it may please them. But it is not necessary.'

'An account of the Lives and works of some of the most eminent English Poets. By, &c.--"The
English Poets, biographically and critically considered, by SAM. JOHNSON."--Let Mr. Nichols
take his choice, or make another to his mind. May, 1781.'

'You somehow forgot the advertisement for the new edition. It was not inclosed. Of Gay's Letters
I see not that any use can be made, for they give no information of any thing. That he was
a member of the Philosophical Society is something; but surely he could be but a corresponding
member. However, not having his life here, I know not how to put it in, and it is of little
importance.'

See several more in The Gent. Mag., 1785. The Editor of that Miscellany, in which Johnson wrote
for several years, seems justly to think that every fragment of so great a man is worthy of
being preserved. BOSWELL. In the original MS. in the British Museum, Your in the third paragraph
of this note is not in italics. Johnson writes his correspondent's name Nichols, Nichol, and
Nicol. In the fourth paragraph he writes, first Philips, and next Phillips. His spelling was
sometimes careless, ante, i. 260, note 2. In the Gent. Mag. for 1785, p. 10, another of these
notes is published:--'In reading Rowe in your edition, which is very impudently called mine,
I observed a little piece unnaturally and odiously obscene. I was offended, but was still more
offended when I could not find it in Rowe's genuine volumes. To admit it had been wrong; to
interpolate it is surely worse. If I had known of such a piece in the whole collection, I should
have been angry. What can be done?' In a note, Mr. Nichols says that this piece 'has not only
appeared in the Works of Rowe, but has been transplanted by Pope into the Miscellanies he published
in his own name and that of Dean Swift.'

[132] He published, in 1782, a revised edition of Baker's Biographia Dramatica. Baker was a
grandson of De Foe. Gent. Mag. 1782, p. 77.

[133] Dryden writing of satiric poetry, says:--'Had I time I could enlarge on the beautiful
turns of words and thoughts, which are as requisite in this as in heroic poetry itself; of
which the satire is undoubtedly a species. With these beautiful turns I confess myself to have
been unacquainted, till about twenty years ago, in a conversation which I had with that noble
wit of Scotland, Sir George Mackenzie, he asked me why I did not imitate in my verses the turns
of Mr. Waller, and Sir John Denham. ... This hint, thus seasonably given me, first made me
sensible of my own wants, and brought me afterwards to seek for the supply of them in other
English authors. I looked over the darling of my youth, the famous Cowley.' Dryden's Works,
ed. 1821, xiii. III.

[134] In one of his letters to Nichols, Johnson says:--'You have now all Cowley. I have been
drawn to a great length, but Cowley or Waller never had any critical examination before.' Gent.
Mag. 1785, p.9.

[135] Life of Sheffield. BOSWELL. Johnson's Works, vii. 485.

[136] See, however, p.11 of this volume, where the same remark is made and Johnson is there
speaking of prose. MALONE.

[137]

     'Purpureus, late qui splendeat unus et alter
      Assuitur pannus.'

     '... Shreds of purple with broad lustre shine
     Sewed on your poem.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Ars Poet. 15.

[138] The original reading is enclosed in crochets, and the present one is printed in Italicks.
BOSWELL.

[139] I have noticed a few words which, to our ears, are more uncommon than at least two of
the three that Boswell mentions; as, 'Languages divaricate,' Works, vii. 309; 'The mellifluence
of Pope's numbers,' ib. 337; 'A subject flux and transitory,' ib. 389; 'His prose is pure without
scrupulosity,' ib. 472; 'He received and accommodated the ladies' (said of one serving behind
the counter), ib. viii. 62; 'The prevalence of this poem was gradual,' ib. p. 276; 'His style
is sometimes concatenated,' ib. p. 458. Boswell, on the next page, supplies one more instance--'Images
such as the superficies of nature readily supplies.'

[140] See ante, iii. 249.

[141] Veracious is perhaps one of the 'four or five words' which Johnson added, or thought
that he added, to the English language. Ante, i. 221. He gives it in his Dictionary, but without
any authority for it. It is however older than his time.

[142] See Johnson's Works, vii. 134, 212, and viii. 386.

[143] Horace Walpole (Letters, vii. 452) writes of Johnson's 'Billingsgate on Milton.' A later
letter shows that, like so many of Johnson's critics, he had not read the Life. Ib. p. 508.

[144] Works, vii. 108. See ante, ii. 239.

[146] Earl Stanhope (Life of Pitt, ii. 65) describes this Society in 1790, 'as a Club, till
then of little note, which had a yearly festival in commemoration of the events of 1688. It
had been new-modelled, and enlarged with a view to the transactions at Paris, but still retained
its former name to imply a close connection between the principles of 1688 in England, and
the principles of 1789 in France.' The Earl Stanhope of that day presided at the anniversary
meeting on Nov. 4, 1789. Nov. 4 was the day on which William III. landed.

[147] See An Essay on the Life, Character, and writings of Dr. Samuel Johnson, London, 1787;
which is very well written, making a proper allowance for the democratical bigotry of its authour;
whom I cannot however but admire for his liberality in speaking thus of my illustrious friend:--

'He possessed extraordinary powers of understanding, which were much cultivated by study, and
still more by meditation and reflection. His memory was remarkably retentive, his imagination
uncommonly vigorous, and his judgement keen and penetrating. He had a strong sense of the importance
of religion; his piety was sincere, and sometimes ardent; and his zeal for the interests of
virtue was often manifested in his conversation and in his writings. The same energy which
was displayed in his literary productions was exhibited also in his conversation, which was
various, striking, and instructive; and perhaps no man ever equalled him for nervous and pointed
repartees.'

'His Dictionary, his moral Essays, and his productions in polite literature, will convey useful
instruction, and elegant entertainment, as long as the language in which they are written shall
be understood.' BOSWELL.

[148] Boswell paraphrases the following passage:--'The King, with lenity of which the world
has had perhaps no other example, declined to be the judge or avenger of his own or his father's
wrongs; and promised to admit into the Act of Oblivion all, except those whom the Parliament
should except; and the Parliament doomed none to capital punishment but the wretches who had
immediately co-operated in the murder of the King. Milton was certainly not one of them; he
had only justified what they had done.' Johnson's Works, vii. 95.

[149]
     'Though fall'n on evil days,
      On evil days though fall'n and evil tongues,
      In darkness, and with dangers compast round.'
                Paradise Lost, vii. 26.

[150] Johnson's Works, vii. 105.

[151] 'His political notions were those of an acrimonious and surly republican.' Ib. p. 116.

[152] 'What we know of Milton's character in domestick relations is, that he was severe and
arbitrary.' Ib. p. 116.

[153] 'His theological opinions are said to have been first, Calvinistical; and afterwards,
perhaps when he began to hate the Presbyterians, to have tended towards Arminianism.... He
appears to have been untainted by any heretical peculiarity of opinion.' Ib. p. 115.

[154] Mr. Malone things it is rather a proof that he felt nothing of those cheerful sensations
which he has described: that on these topicks it is the poet, and not the man, that writes.
BOSWELL.

[155] See ante, i. 427, ii. 124, and iv. 20, for Johnson's condemnation of blank verse. This
condemnations was not universal. Of Dryden, he wrote (Works, vii. 249):--'He made rhyming tragedies,
till, by the prevalence of manifest propriety, he seems to have grown ashamed of making them
any longer.' His own Irene is in blank verse; though Macaulay justly remarks of it:--'He had
not the slightest notion of what blank verse should be.' (Macaulay's Writings and Speeches,
ed. 1871, p. 380.) Of Thomson's Seasons, he says (Works, vii. 377):--'His is one of the works
in which blank verse seems properly used.' Of Young's Night Thoughts:--'This is one of the
few poems in which blank verse could not be changed for rhyme but with disadvantage.' Ib. p.
460. Of Milton himself, he writes:--'Whatever be the advantages of rhyme, I cannot prevail
on myself to wish that Milton had been a rhymer; for I cannot wish his work to be other than
it is; yet, like other heroes, he is to be admired rather than imitated.' Ib. vii. 142. How
much he felt the power of Milton's blank verse is shewn by his Rambler, No. 90, where, after
stating that 'the noblest and most majestick pauses which our versification admits are upon
the fourth and sixth syllables,' he adds:--' Some passages [in Milton] which conclude at this
stop [the sixth syllable] I could never read without some strong emotions of delight or admiration.'
'If,' he continues, 'the poetry of Milton be examined with regard to the pauses and flow of
his verses into each other, it will appear that he has performed all that our language would
admit.' Cowper was so indignant at Johnson's criticism of Milton's blank verse that he wrote:--'Oh!
I could thresh his old jacket till I made his pension jingle in his pocket.' Southey's Cowper,
iii. 315.

[156] One of the most natural instances of the effect of blank verse occurred to the late Earl
of Hopeton. His Lordship observed one of his shepherds poring in the fields upon Milton's Paradise
Lost; and having asked him what book it was, the man answered, 'An't please your Lordship,
this is a very odd sort of an authour: he would fain rhyme, but cannot get at it.' BOSWELL.
'The variety of pauses, so much boasted by the lovers of blank verse, changes the measures
of an English poet to the periods of a declaimer; and there are only a few skilful and happy
readers of Milton, who enable their audience to perceive where the lines end or begin. "Blank
verse," said an ingenious critick, "seems to be verse only to the eye."' Johnson's Works, vii.
141. In the Life of Roscommon (ib. p. 171), he says:--'A poem frigidly didactick, without rhyme,
is so near to prose, that the reader only scorns it for pretending to be verse.'

[157] Mr. Locke. Often mentioned in Mme. D'Arblay's Diary.

[158] See vol. in. page 71. BOSWELL.

[159] It is scarcely a defence. Whatever it was, he thus ends it:-'It is natural to hope, that
a comprehensive is likewise an elevated soul, and that whoever is wise is also honest. I am
willing to believe that Dryden, having employed his mind, active as it was, upon different
studies, and filled it, capacious as it was, with other materials, came unprovided to the controversy,
and wanted rather skill to discover the right than virtue to maintain it. But inquiries into
the heart are not for man; we must now leave him to his judge.' Works, vii. 279.

[160] In the original fright. The Hind and the Panther, i. 79.

[161] In this quotation two passages are joined. Works, vii. 339, 340.

[162] 'The deep and pathetic morality of the Vanity of Human Wishes' says Sir Walter Scott,
'has often extracted tears from those whose eyes wander dry over the pages of professed sentimentality.'
CROKER. It. drew tears from Johnson himself. 'When,' says Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 50), 'he read
his own satire, in which the life of a scholar is painted, he burst into a passion of tears.
The family and Mr. Scott only were present, who, in a jocose way, clapped him on the back,
and said:--"What's all this, my dear Sir? Why you, and I, and Hercules, you know, were all
troubled with melancholy." He was a very large man, and made out the triumvirate with Johnson
and Hercules comically enough. The Doctor was so delighted at his odd sally, that he suddenly
embraced him, and the subject was immediately changed.'

[163] In Disraeli's Curiosities of Literature, ed. 1834, iv. 180, is given 'a memorandum of
Dr. Johnson's of hints for the Life of Pope.'

[164] Works, viii. 345.

[165] 'Of the last editor [Warburton] it is more difficult to speak. Respect is due to high
place, tenderness to living reputation, and veneration to genius and learning; but he cannot
be justly offended at that liberty of which he has himself so frequently given an example,
nor very solicitous what is thought of notes which he ought never to have considered as part
of his serious employments.' Works, v. 140. See post, June 10,1784.

[166] The liberality is certainly measured. With much praise there is much censure. Works,
viii. 288. See ante, ii. 36, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 23.

[167] Of Johnson's conduct towards Warburton, a very honourable notice is taken by the editor
of Tracts by Warburton and a Warburtonian, not admitted into the Collection of their respective
Works. After an able and 'fond, though not undistinguishing,' consideration of Warburton's
character, he says, 'In two immortal works, Johnson has stood forth in the foremost rank of
his admirers. By the testimony of such a man, impertinence must be abashed, and malignity itself
must be softened. Of literary merit, Johnson, as we all know, was a sagacious but a most severe
judge. Such was his discernment, that he pierced into the most secret springs of human actions;
and such was his integrity, that he always weighed the moral characters of his fellow-creatures
in the "balance of the sanctuary." He was too courageous to propitiate a rival, and too proud
to truckle to a superiour. Warburton he knew, as I know him, and as every man of sense and
virtue would wish to be known,--I mean, both from his own writings, and from the writings of
those who dissented from his principles, or who envied his reputation. But, as to favours,
he had never received or asked any from the Bishop of Gloucester; and, if my memory fails me
not, he had seen him only once, when they met almost without design, conversed without much
effort, and parted without any lasting impressions of hatred or affection. Yet, with all the
ardour of sympathetic genius, Johnson has done that spontaneously and ably, which, by some
writers, had been before attempted injudiciously, and which, by others, from whom more successful
attempts might have been expected, has not hitherto been done at all. He spoke well of Warburton,
without insulting those whom Warburton despised. He suppressed not the imperfections of this
extraordinary man, while he endeavoured to do justice to his numerous and transcendental excellencies.
He defended him when living, amidst the clamours of his enemies; and praised him when dead,
amidst the silence of his friends.'

Having availed myself of this editor's eulogy on my departed friend, for which I warmly thank
him, let me not suffer the lustre of his reputation, honestly acquired by profound learning
and vigorous eloquence, to be tarnished by a charge of illiberality. He has been accused of
invidiously dragging again into light certain writings of a person respectable by his talents,
his learning, his station and his age, which were published a great many years ago, and have
since, it is said, been silently given up by their authour. But when it is considered that
these writings were not sins of youth, but deliberate works of one well-advanced in life, overflowing
at once with flattery to a great man of great interest in the Church, and with unjust and acrimonious
abuse of two men of eminent merit; and that, though it would have been unreasonable to expect
an humiliating recantation, no apology whatever has been made in the cool of the evening, for
the oppressive fervour of the heat of the day; no slight relenting indication has appeared
in any note, or any corner of later publications; is it not fair to understand him as superciliously
persevering? When he allows the shafts to remain in the wounds, and will not stretch forth
a lenient hand, is it wrong, is it not generous to become an indignant avenger? BOSWELL. Boswell
wrote on Feb. 16, 1789:--'There is just come out a publication which makes a considerable noise.
The celebrated Dr. Parr, of Norwich, has--wickedly, shall we say?--but surely wantonly--published
Warburton's Juvenile Translations and Discourse on Prodigies, and Bishop Kurd's attacks on
Jortin and Dr. Thomas Leland, with his Essay on the Delicacy of Friendship.' Letters of Boswell,
p. 275. The 'editor,' therefore, is Parr, and the 'Warburtonian' is Hurd. Boswell had written
to Parr on Jan. 10, 1791:--'I request to hear by return of post if I may say or guess that
Dr. Parr is the editor of these tracts.' Parr's Works, viii. 12. See also ib. iii. 405.

[168] In Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 213, it is said, that this meeting was 'at the Bishop
of St. ----'s [Asaph's]. Boswell, by his 'careful enquiry,' no doubt meant to show that this
statement was wrong. Johnson is reported to have said:--' Dr. Warburton at first looked surlily
at me; but after we had been jostled into conversation he took me to a window, asked me some
questions, and before we parted was so well pleased with me that he patted me.'

[169] 'Warburton's style is copious without selection, and forcible without neatness; he took
the words that presented themselves; his diction is coarse and impure; and his sentences are
unmeasured.' Johnson's Works, viii. 288.

[170] Churchill, in The Duellist (Poems ed. 1766, ii. 85), describes Warburton as having

     'A heart, which virtue ne'er disgraced;
      A head where learning runs to waste.'

[171] Works, viii. 230.

[172] 'I never,' writes Mrs. Piozzi, 'heard Johnson pronounce the words, "I beg your pardon,
Sir," to any human creature but the apparently soft and gentle Dr. Burney.' Burney had asked
her whether she had subscribed £100 to building a bridge. '"It is very comical, is it not,
Sir?" said I, turning to Dr. Johnson, "that people should tell such unfounded stories." "It
is," answered he, "neither comical nor serious, my dear; it is only a wandering lie." This
was spoken in his natural voice, without a thought of offence, I am confident; but up bounced
Burney in a towering passion, and to my much amaze put on the hero, surprising Dr. Johnson
into a sudden request for pardon, and protestation of not having ever intended to accuse his
friend of a falsehood.' Hayward's Piozzi, i. 312.

[173] In the original, 'nor.' Works, viii. 311.

[174] In the original, 'either wise or merry.'

[175] In the original, 'stands upon record'.

[176] Works, viii. 316. Surely the words 'had not much to say' imply that Johnson had heard
the answer, but thought little of its wit. According to Mr. Croker, the repartee is given in
Ruffhead's Life of Pope, and this book Johnson had seen. Ante, ii. 166.

[177] Let me here express my grateful remembrance of Lord Somerville's kindness to me, at a
very early period. He was the first person of high rank that took particular notice of me in
the way most flattering to a young man, fondly ambitious of being distinguished for his literary
talents; and by the honour of his encouragement made me think well of myself, and aspire to
deserve it better. He had a happy art of communicating his varied knowledge of the world, in
short remarks and anecdotes, with a quiet pleasant gravity, that was exceedingly engaging.
Never shall I forget the hours which I enjoyed with him at his apartments in the Royal Palace
of Holy-Rood House, and at his seat near Edinburgh, which he himself had formed with an elegant
taste. BOSWELL.

[178] Ante, iii. 392.

[179] Boswell, I think, misunderstands Johnson. Johnson said (Works, viii. 313) that 'Pope's
admiration of the Great seems to have increased in the advance of life.' His Iliad he had dedicated
to Congreve, but 'to his latter works he took care to annex names dignified with titles, but
was not very happy in his choice; for, except Lord Bathurst, none of his noble friends were
such as that a good man would wish to have his intimacy with them known to posterity; he can
derive little honour from the notice of Cobham, Burlington, or Bolingbroke.' Johnson, it seems
clear, is speaking, not of the noblemen whom Pope knew in general, but of those to whom he
dedicated any of his works. Among them Lord Marchmont is not found, so that on him no slight
is cast.

[180] Neither does Johnson actually say that Lord Marchmont had 'any concern,' though perhaps
he implies it. He writes:--'Pope left the care of his papers to his executors; first to Lord
Bolingbroke; and, if he should not be living, to the Earl of Marchmont: undoubtedly expecting
them to be proud of the trust, and eager to extend his fame. But let no man dream of influence
beyond his life. After a decent time, Dodsley the bookseller went to solicit preference as
the publisher, and was told that the parcel had not been yet inspected; and, whatever was the
reason, the world has been disappointed of what was "reserved for the next age."' Ib. p. 306.
As Bolingbroke outlived Pope by more than seven years, it is clear, from what Johnson states,
that he alone had the care of the papers, and that he gave the answer to Dodsley. Marchmont,
however, knew the contents of the papers. Ib. p. 319.

[181] This neglect did not arise from any ill-will towards Lord Marchmont, but from inattention;
just as he neglected to correct his statement concerning the family of Thomson the poet, after
it had been shewn to be erroneous (ante, in. 359). MALONE.

[182] Works, vii. 420.

[183] Benjamin Victor published in 1722, a Letter to Steele, and in 1776, Letters, Dramatic
Pieces, and Poems Brit. Mus. Catalogue.

[184] Mr. Wilks. See ante, i. 167, note 1.

[185] See post, p. 91 and Macaulay's Essay on Addison (ed. 1974, iv. 207). 1858, p. 94.

[187] See ante, i. 30, and iii. 155.

[188] See post, under Dec. 2, 1784.

[189] Parnell 'drank to excess.' Ante, iii. 155.

[190] I should have thought that Johnson, who had felt the severe affliction from which Parnell
never recovered, would have preserved this passage. BOSWELL.

[191] Mrs. Thrale wrote to Johnson in May, 1780:-'Blackmore will be rescued from the old wits
who worried him much to your disliking; so, a little for love of his Christianity, a little
for love of his physic, a little for love of his courage--and a little for love of contradiction,
you will save him from his malevolent critics, and perhaps do him the honour to devour him
yourself.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 122. See ante, ii. 107.

[192] 'This is a tribute which a painter owes to an architect who composed like a painter;
and was defrauded of the due reward of his merit by the wits of his time, who did not understand
the principles of composition in poetry better than he did; and who knew little, or nothing,
of what he understood perfectly, the general ruling principles of architecture and painting.'
Reynolds's Thirteenth Discourse.

[193] Johnson had not wished to write Lyttelton's Life. He wrote to Lord Westcote, Lyttelton's
brother, 'My desire is to avoid offence, and be totally out of danger. I take the liberty of
proposing to your lordship, that the historical account should be written under your direction
by any friend you may be willing to employ, and I will only take upon myself to examine the
poetry.'--Croker's Boswell, p.650.

[194] It was not Molly Aston (ante i. 83) but Miss Hill Boothby (ib.) of whom Mrs. Thrale wrote.
She says (Anec. p.160):--'Such was the purity of her mind, Johnson said, and such the graces
of her manner, that Lord Lyttelton and he used to strive for her preference with an emulation
that occasioned hourly disgust, and ended in lasting animosity.' There is surely much exaggeration
in this account.

[195] Let not my readers smile to think of Johnson's being a candidate for female favour; Mr.
Peter Garrick assured me, that he was told by a lady, that in her opinion Johnson was 'a very
seducing man.' Disadvantages of person and manner may be forgotten, where intellectual pleasure
is communicated to a susceptible mind; and that Johnson was capable of feeling the most delicate
and disinterested attachment, appears from the following letter, which is published by Mrs.
Thrale [Piozzi Letters, ii. 391], with some others to the same person, of which the excellence
is not so apparent:--

'TO MISS BOOTHBY. January, 1755.

DEAREST MADAM,

Though I am afraid your illness leaves you little leisure for the reception of airy civilities,
yet I cannot forbear to pay you my congratulations on the new year; and to declare my wishes
that your years to come may be many and happy. In this wish, indeed, I include myself, who
have none but you on whom my heart reposes; yet surely I wish your good, even though your situation
were such as should permit you to communicate no gratifications to, dearest, dearest Madam,
Your, &c. SAM JOHNSON.' (BOSWELL.)

[196] Horace, Odes, iv. 3.2, quoted also ante, i.352, note.

[197] The passage which Boswell quotes in part is as follows:--'When they were first published
they were kindly commended by the Critical Reviewers; [i.e. the writers in the Critical Review.
In some of the later editions of Boswell these words have been printed, critical reviewers;
so as to include all the reviewers who criticised the work]; and poor Lyttelton, with humble
gratitude, returned, in a note which I have read, acknowledgements which can never be proper,
since they must be paid either for flattery or for justice.' Works, viii.491. Boswell forgets
that what may be proper in one is improper in another. Lyttelton, when he wrote this note,
had long been a man of high position. He had 'stood in the first rank of opposition,' he had
been Chancellor of the Exchequer, and when he lost his post, he had been 'recompensed with
a peerage.' See ante, ii. 126.

[198] See post, June 12 and 15, 1784.

[199] He adopted it from indolence. Writing on Aug. 1, 1780, after mentioning the failure of
his application to Lord Westcote, he continues:--'There is an ingenious scheme to save a day's
work, or part of a day, utterly defeated. Then what avails it to be wise? The plain and the
artful man must both do their own work.--But I think I have got a life of Dr. Young.' Piozzi
Letters, ii. 173.

[200] Gent. Mag. vol. lv. p. 10. BOSWELL.

[201] By a letter to Johnson from Croft, published in the later editions of the Lives, it seems
that Johnson only expunged one passage. Croft says:--'Though I could not prevail on you to
make any alteration, you insisted on striking out one passage, because it said, that, if I
did not wish you to live long for your sake, I did for the sake of myself and the world.' Works
viii.458.

[202] The Late Mr. Burke. MALONE.

[203] Seepost, June 2, 1781.

[204] Johnson's Works, viii 440.

[205] Ib. p.436

[206] 'Eheu! fugaces, Postume, Postume, Labuntur anni.' 'How swiftly glide our flying years!'
FRANCIS. Horace, Odes, ii.14. i.

[207] The late Mr. James Ralph told Lord Macartney, that he passed an evening with Dr. Young
at Lord Melcombe's (then Mr. Dodington) at Hammersmith. The Doctor happening to go out into
the garden, Mr. Dodington observed to him, on his return, that it was a dreadful night, as
in truth it was, there being a violent storm of rain and wind. 'No, Sir, (replied the Doctor)
it is a very fine night. The LORD is abroad.' BOSWELL.

[208] See ante, ii.96, and iii.251; and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 30.

[209] 'An ardent judge, who zealous in his trust, With warmth gives sentence, yet is always
just.' Pope's Essay on Criticism, l.677.

[210] Works, viii.459. Though the Life of Young is by Croft, yet the critical remarks are by
Johnson.

[211] Ib. p.460.

[212] Johnson refers to Chambers's Dissertation on Oriental Gardening, which was ridiculed
in the Heroic Epistle. See post, under May 8, 1781, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 13.

[213] Boswell refers to the death of Narcissa in the third of the Night Thoughts. While he
was writing the Life of Johnson Mrs. Boswell was dying of consumption in (to quote Young's words)

     The rigid north,
     Her native bed, on which bleak
     Boreas blew.'

She died nearly two years before The Life was published.

[214] Proverbs, xviii.14.

[215] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 16.

[216] See vol. i. page 133. BOSWELL.

[217] 'In his economy Swift practised a peculiar and offensive parsimony, without disguise
or apology. The practice of saving being once necessary, became habitual, and grew first ridiculous,
and at last detestable. But his avarice, though it might exclude pleasure, was never suffered
to encroach upon his virtue. He was frugal by inclination, but liberal by principle; and if
the purpose to which he destined his little accumulations be remembered, with his distribution
of occasional charity, it will perhaps appear, that he only liked one mode of expense better
than another, and saved merely that he might have something to give.' Works, viii.222.

[218] Ib. p.225.

[219] Mr. Chalmers here records a curious literary anecdote--that when a new and enlarged edition
of the Lives of the Poets was published in 1783, Mr. Nichols, in justice to the purchasers
of the preceding editions, printed the additions in a separate pamphlet, and advertised that
it might be had gratis. Not ten copies were called for. CROKER.

[220] See ante, p.9, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 15.

[221] Works, vii. Preface.

[222] From this disreputable class, I except an ingenious though not satisfactory defence of
HAMMOND, which I did not see till lately, by the favour of its authour, my amiable friend,
the Reverend Mr. Bevill, who published it without his name. It is a juvenile performance, but
elegantly written, with classical enthusiasm of sentiment, and yet with a becoming modesty,
and great respect for Dr. Johnson. BOSWELL.

[223] Before the Life of Lyttelton was published there was, it seems, some coolness between
Mrs. Montagu and Johnson. Miss Burney records the following conversation in September 1778.
'Mark now,' said Dr. Johnson, 'if I contradict Mrs. Montagu to-morrow. I am determined, let
her say what she will, that I will not contradict her.' MRS. THRALE. 'Why to be sure, Sir,
you did put her a little out of countenance last time she came.'...DR. JOHNSON. 'Why, Madam,
I won't answer that I shan't contradict her again, if she provokes me as she did then; but
a less provocation I will withstand. I believe I am not high in her good graces already; and
I begin (added he, laughing heartily) to tremble for my admission into her new house. I doubt
I shall never see the inside of it.' Yet when they met a few days later all seemed friendly.
'When Mrs. Montagu's new house was talked of, Dr. Johnson in a jocose manner, desired to know
if he should be invited to see it. "Ay, sure," cried Mrs. Montagu, looking well pleased, "or
else I shan't like it."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i.118, 126. 'Mrs. Montagu's dinners and assemblies,'
writes Wraxall, 'were principally supported by, and they fell with, the giant talents of Johnson,
who formed the nucleus round which all the subordinate members revolved.' Wraxall's Memoirs,
ed. 1815, i.160.

[224] Described by the author as 'a body of original essays.' 'I consider The Observer,' he
arrogantly continues, 'as fairly enrolled amongst the standard classics of our native language.'
Cumberland's Memoirs, ii.199. In his account of this Feast of Reason he quite as much satirises
Mrs. Montagu as praises her. He introduces Johnson in it, annoyed by an impertinent fellow,
and saying to him:--'Have I said anything, good Sir, that you do not comprehend?' 'No, no,'
replied he, 'I perfectly well comprehend every word you have been saying.' 'Do you so, Sir?'
said the philosopher, 'then I heartily ask pardon of the company for misemploying their time
so egregiously.' The Observer, No. 25.

[225] Miss Burney gives an account of an attack made by Johnson, at a dinner at Streatham,
in June 1781, on Mr. Pepys (post, p. 82), 'one of Mrs. Montagu's steadiest abettors.' 'Never
before,' she writes, 'have I seen Dr. Johnson speak with so much passion. "Mr. Pepys," he cried,
in a voice the most enraged, "I understand you are offended by my Life of Lord Lyttelton. What
is it you have to say against it? Come forth, man! Here am I, ready to answer any charge you
can bring."' After the quarrel had been carried even into the drawing-room, Mrs. Thrale, 'with
great spirit and dignity, said that she should be very glad to hear no more of it. Everybody
was silenced, and Dr. Johnson, after a pause, said:--"Well, Madam, you shall hear no more of
it; yet I will defend myself in every part and in every atom."... Thursday morning, Dr. Johnson
went to town for some days, but not before Mrs. Thrale read him a very serious lecture upon
giving way to such violence; which he bore with a patience and quietness that even more than
made his peace with me.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 45. Two months later the quarrel was made
up. 'Mr. Pepys had desired this meeting by way of a reconciliation; and Dr. Johnson now made
amends for his former violence, as he advanced to him, as soon as he came in, and holding out
his hand to him received him with a cordiality he had never shewn him before. Indeed he told
me himself that he thought the better of Mr. Pepys for all that had passed.' Ib. p. 82. Miss
Burney, in Dec. 1783, described the quarrel to Mr. Cambridge:--'"I never saw Dr. Johnson really
in a passion but then; and dreadful indeed it was to see. I wished myself away a thousand times.
It was a frightful scene. He so red, poor Mr. Pepys so pale." "It was behaving ill to Mrs.
Thrale certainly to quarrel in her house." "Yes, but he never repeated it; though he wished
of all things to have gone through just such another scene with Mrs. Montagu; and to refrain
was an act of heroic forbearance. She came to Streatham one morning, and I saw he was dying
to attack her." "And how did Mrs. Montagu herself behave?" Very stately, indeed, at first.
She turned from him very stiffly, and with a most distant air, and without even courtesying
to him, and with a firm intention to keep to what she had publicly declared--that she would
never speak to him more. However, he went up to her himself, longing to begin, and very roughly
said:--"Well, Madam, what's become of your fine new house? I hear no more of it." "But how
did she bear this?" "Why, she was obliged to answer him; and she soon grew so frightened--as
everybody does--that she was as civil as ever." He laughed heartily at this account. But I
told him Dr. Johnson was now much softened. He had acquainted me, when I saw him last, that
he had written to her upon the death of Mrs. Williams [see post, Sept. 18, 1783, note], because
she had allowed her something yearly, which now ceased. "And I had a very kind answer from
her," said he. "Well then, Sir," cried I, "I hope peace now will be again proclaimed." "Why,
I am now," said he, "come to that time when I wish all bitterness and animosity to be at an
end."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 290.

[226] January, 1791. BOSWELL. Hastings's trial had been dragging on for more than three years
when The Life of Johnson was published. It began in 1788, and ended in 1795.

[227] Gent. Mag. for 1785, p. 412.

[228] Afterwards Sir Robert Chambers, one of his Majesty's Judges in India. BOSWELL. See ante,
i.274. 1843, iii. 338.

[230] Lord North's. Feeble though it was, it lasted eight years longer.

[231] Jones's Persian Grammar. Boswell. It was published in 1771.

[232] Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland. BOSWELL.

[233] See ante, ii. 296. 1843, iii.376.

[235] Johnson wrote the Dedication, Ante, i.383.

[236] See ante, ii.82, note 2.

[237] Copy is manuscript for printing.

[238] Published by Kearsley, with this well-chosen motto:--'From his cradle He was a SCHOLAR,
and a ripe and good one: And to add greater honours to his age Than man could give him, he
died fearing Heaven.' SHAKSPEARE. BOSWELL. This quotation is a patched up one from Henry VIII,
act iv. sc.2. The quotation in the text is found on p. 89 of this Life of Johnson.

[239] Mr. Thrale had removed, that is to say, from his winter residence in the Borough. Mrs.
Piozzi has written opposite this passage in her copy of Boswell:--'Spiteful again! He went
by direction of his physicians where they could easiest attend to him.' Hayward's Piozzi, i.
91. There was, perhaps, a good deal of truth in Boswell's supposition, for in 1779 Johnson
had told her that he saw 'with indignation her despicable dread of living in the Borough.'
Piozzi Letters, ii.92. Johnson had a room in the new house. 'Think,' wrote Hannah More, 'of
Johnson's having apartments in Grosvenor-square! but he says it is not half so convenient as
Bolt-court.' H. More's Memoirs, i.2O7.

[240] See ante, iii. 250.
      [Act iii. sc. 4.]

Milton thus pourtrays our first parent, Adam:--

     'His fair large front and eye sublime declar'd
      Absolute rule; and hyacinthin locks
      Round from his parted forelock manly hung
      Clus'tring, but not beneath his shoulders broad.'
     [P.L. iv. 300.] BOSWELL.

[242] 'Grattan's Uncle, Dean Marlay [afterwards Bishop of Waterford], had a good deal of the
humour of Swift. Once, when the footman was out of the way, he ordered the coachman to fetch
some water from the well. To this the man objected, that his business was to drive, not to
run on errands. "Well, then," said Marlay, "bring out the coach and four, set the pitcher inside,
and drive to the well;"--a service which was several times repeated, to the great amusement
of the village.' Rogers's Table-Talk, p.176.

[243] See ante, ii. 241, for Johnson's contempt of puns.

[244] 'He left not faction, but of that was left.' Absalom and Achitophel, l. 568.

[245] Boswell wrote of Gibbon in 1779:--'He is an ugly, affected, disgusting fellow, and poisons
our Literary Club to me.' Letters of Boswell, p.242. See ante, ii.443, note 1.

[246] The schools in this sense means a University.

[247] See ante, ii.224.

[248] Up to the year 1770, controverted elections had been tried before a Committee of the
whole House. By the Grenville Act which was passed in that year they were tried by a select
committee. Parl. Hist. xvi. 902. Johnson, in The False Alarm (1770), describing the old method
of trial, says;--'These decisions have often been apparently partial, and sometimes tyrannically
oppressive.' Works, vi. 169. In The Patriot (1774), he says:--'A disputed election is now tried
with the same scrupulousness and solemnity as any other title.' Ib. p.223. See Boswell's Hebrides,
Nov.10.

[249] Miss Burney describes a dinner at Mr. Thrale's, about this time, at which she met Johnson,
Boswell, and Dudley Long. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 14.

[250] See ante, ii.171, post, two paragraphs before April 10, 1783, and May 15, 1784.

[251] Johnson wrote on May i, 1780:--'There was the Bishop of St. Asaph who comes to every
place.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 111. Hannah More, in 1782, describes an assembly at this Bishop's.
'Conceive to yourself 150 or 200 people met together dressed in the extremity of the fashion,
painted as red as Bacchanals...ten or a dozen card-tables crammed with dowagers of quality,
grave ecclesiastics and yellow admirals.' Memoirs, i.242. He was elected a member of the Literary
Club, 'with the sincere approbation and eagerness of all present,' wrote Mr. (afterwards Sir
William) Jones; elected, too, on the same day on which Lord Chancellor Camden was rejected
(ante, iii. 311, note 2). Two or three years later Sir William married the Bishop's daughter.
Life of Sir W Jones, pp.240, 279.

[252] 'Trust not to looks, nor credit outward show; The villain lurks beneath the cassocked
beau.' Churchill's Poems (ed. 1766), ii.41.

[253] No. 2.

[254] See vol. i p. 378. BOSWELL.

[255] Northcote, according to Hazlitt, said of this character with some truth, that 'it was
like one of Kneller's portraits--it would do for anybody.' Northcote's Conversations, p.86.

[256] See post, p.98.

[257] London Chronicle, May 2, 1769. This respectable man is there mentioned to have died on
the 3rd of April, that year, at Cofflect, the seat of Thomas Veale, Esq., in his way to London.
BOSWELL.

[258] Dr. Harte was the tutor of Mr. Eliot and of young Stanhope, Lord Chesterfield's illegitimate
son. 'My morning hopes,' wrote Chesterfield to his son at Rome, 'are justly placed in Mr. Harte,
and the masters he will give you; my evening ones in the Roman ladies: pray be attentive to
both.' Chesterfield's Letters, ii.263. See ante, i.163, note 1, ii.120, and post, June 27, 1784.

[259] Robertson's Scotland is in the February list of books in the Gent. Mag. for 1759; Harte's
Gustavus Adolphus and Hume's England under the House of Tudor in the March list. Perhaps it
was from Hume's competition that Harte suffered.

[260] Essays on Husbandry, 1764.

[261] See ante, iii. 381.

[262] 'Christmas Day, 1780. I shall not attempt to see Vestris till the weather is milder,
though it is the universal voice that he is the only perfect being that has dropped from the
clouds, within the memory of man or woman...When the Parliament meets he is to be thanked by
the Speaker.' Walpole's Letters, vii. 480.

[263] Here Johnson uses his title of Doctor (ante, ii.332, note 1), but perhaps he does so
as quoting the paragraph in the newspaper.

[264] William, the first Viscount Grimston. BOSWELL. Swift thus introduces him in his lines
On Poetry, A Rhapsody:--

     'When death had finished Blackmore's reign,
     The leaden crown devolved to thee,
     Great poet of the hollow tree.'

Mr. Nichols, in a note on this, says that Grimston 'wrote the play when a boy, to be acted
by his schoolfellows.' Swift's Works (1803), xi. 297. Two editions were published apparently
by Grimston himself, one bearing his name but no date, and the other the date of 1705 but no
name. By 1705 Grimston was 22 years old--no longer a boy. The former edition was published
by Bernard Lintott at the Cross Keys, Fleet-street, and the latter by the same bookseller at
the Middle Temple Gate. The grossness of a young man of birth at this period is shewn by the
Preface. The third edition with the elephant on the tight-rope was published in 1736. There
is another illustration in which an ass is represented bearing a coronet. Grimston's name is
not given here, but there is a dedication 'To the Right Sensible the Lord Flame.' Three or
four notes are added, one of which is very gross. The election was for St. Alban's, for which
borough he was thrice returned.

[265] Dr. T. Campbell records (Diary, p. 69) that 'Boswell asked Johnson if he had never been
under the hands of a dancing master. "Aye, and a dancing mistress too," says the Doctor; "but
I own to you I never took a lesson but one or two; my blind eyes showed me I could never make
a proficiency."'

[266] See vol. ii. p.286. BOSWELL.

[267] Miss Burney writes of him in Feb. 1779:--'He is a professed minority man, and very active
and zealous in the opposition. Men of such different principles as Dr. Johnson and Sir Philip
cannot have much cordiality in their political debates; however, the very superior abilities
of the former, and the remarkable good breeding of the latter have kept both upon good terms.'
She describes a hot argument between them, and continues:--'Dr. Johnson pursued him with unabating
vigour and dexterity, and at length, though he could not convince, he so entirely baffled him,
that Sir Philip was self-compelled to be quiet--which, with a very good grace, he confessed.
Dr. Johnson then recollecting himself, and thinking, as he owned afterwards, that the dispute
grew too serious, with a skill all his own, suddenly and unexpectedly turned it to burlesque.'
D'Arblay's Diary, i. 192.

[268] See post, Jan. 20, 1782.

[269] See ante, ii.355.

[270] Here Johnson condescended to play upon the words Long and short. But little did he know
that, owing to Mr. Long's reserve in his presence, he was talking thus of a gentleman distinguised
amongst his acquaintance for acuteness of wit; one to whom I think the French expression, 'Il
pétille d'esprit,' is particularly He has gratified me by mentioning that he heard Dr. Johnson
say, 'Sir, if I were to lose Boswell, it would be a limb amputated.' BOSWELL.

[271] William Weller Pepys, Esq., one of the Masters in the High Court of Chancery, and well
known in polite circles. My acquaintance with him is not sufficient to enable me to speak of
him from my own judgement. But I know that both at Eton and Oxford he was the intimate friend
of the late Sir James Macdonald, the Marcellus of Scotland [ante, i.449], whose extraordinary
talents, learning, and virtues, will ever be remembered with admiration and regret. BOSWELL.

[272] See note, ante, p. 65, which describes an attack made by Johnson on Pepys more than two
months after this conversation.

[273] Johnson once said to Mrs. Thrale:--'Why, Madam, you often provoke me to say severe things
by unreasonable commendation. If you would not call for my praise, I would not give you my
censure; but it constantly moves my indignation to be applied to, to speak well of a thing
which I think contemptible.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i.132. See ante, iii.225.

[274] 'Mrs. Thrale,' wrote Miss Burney in 1780, 'is a most dear creature, but never restrains
her tongue in anything, nor, indeed, any of her feelings. She laughs, cries, scolds, sports,
reasons, makes fun--does everything she has an inclination to do, without any study of prudence,
or thought of blame; and, pure and artless as is this character, it often draws both herself
and others into scrapes, which a little discretion would avoid.' Ib. i.386. Later on she writes:--'Mrs.
Thrale, with all her excellence, can give up no occasion of making sport, however unseasonable
or even painful... I knew she was not to be safely trusted with anything she could turn into
ridicule.' Ib. ii.24 and 29.

[275] Perhaps Mr. Seward, who was constantly at the Thrales' (ante, iii. 123).

[276] See ante, iii.228, 404.

[277] It was the seventh anniversary of Goldsmith's death.

[278] 'Mrs. Garrick and I,' wrote Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 208), 'were invited to an assembly
at Mrs. Thrale's. There was to be a fine concert, and all the fine people were to be there.
Just as my hair was dressed, came a servant to forbid our coming, for that Mr. Thrale was dead.'

[279] Pr. and Med. p 191. BOSWELL. The rest of the entry should be given:--'On Wednesday, 11,
was buried my dear friend Thrale, who died on Wednesday 4; and with him were buried many of
my hopes and pleasures. [On Sunday, 1st, the physician warned him against full meals, on Monday
I pressed him to observance of his rules, but without effect, and Tuesday I was absent, but
his wife pressed forbearance upon him again unsuccessfully. At night I was called to him, and
found him senseless in strong convulsions. I staid in the room, except that I visited Mrs.
Thrale twice.] About five, I think, on Wednesday morning he expired; I felt, &c. Farewell.
May God that delighteth in mercy have had mercy on thee. I had constantly prayed for him some
time before his death. The decease of him from whose friendship I had obtained many opportunities
of amusement, and to whom I turned my thoughts as to a refuge from misfortunes, has left me
heavy. But my business is with myself.' The passage enclosed in brackets I have copied from
the original MS. Mr. Strahan, the editor, omitted it, no doubt from feelings of delicacy. What
a contrast in this to the widow who published a letter in which she had written:--'I wish that
you would put in a word of your own to Mr. Thrale about eating less!' Piozzi Letters, ii.130.
Baretti, in a note on Piozzi Letters, ii.142, says that 'nobody ever had spirit enough to tell
Mr. Thrale that his fits were apoplectic; such is the blessing of being rich that nobody dares
to speak out.' In Johnson's Works (1787), xi.203, it is recorded that 'Johnson, who attended
Thrale in his last moments, said, "His servants would have waited upon him in this awful period,
and why not his friend?"'

[280] Johnson's letters to the widow show how much he felt Thrale's death. 'April 5, 1781.
I am not without my part of the calamity. No death since that of my wife has ever oppressed
me like this. April 7. My part of the loss hangs upon me. I have lost a friend of boundless
kindness, at an age when it is very unlikely that I should find another. April 9. Our sorrow
has different effects; you are withdrawn into solitude, and I am driven into company. I am
afraid of thinking what I have lost. I never had such a friend before. April 11. I feel myself
like a man beginning a new course of life. I had interwoven myself with my dear friend.' Piozzi
Letters, ii. 191-97. 'I have very often,' wrote Miss Burney, in the following June, 'though
I mention them not, long and melancholy discourses with Dr. Johnson about our dear deceased
master, whom, indeed, he regrets incessantly.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 63. On his next birthday,
he wrote:--'My first knowledge of Thrale was in 1765. I enjoyed his favour for almost a fourth
part of my life.' Pr. and Med. p.191. One or two passages in Mrs. Thrale's Letters shew her
husband's affection for Johnson. On May 3, 1776, she writes:--'Mr. Thrale says he shall not
die in peace without seeing Rome, and I am sure he will go nowhere that he can help without
you.' Piozzi Letters, i.317. A few days later, she speaks of 'our dear master, who cannot be
quiet without you for a week.' Ib. p.329. Johnson, in his fine epitaph on Thrale (Works, i.153)
broke through a rule which he himself had laid down. In his Essay on Epitaphs (Ib. v 263),
he said:--'It is improper to address the epitaph to the passenger [traveller], a custom which
an injudicious veneration for antiquity introduced again at the revival of letters.' Yet in
the monument in Streatham Church, we find the same Abi viator which he had censured in an epitaph
on Henry IV of France.

[281] Johnson's letters to Mrs. Thrale shew that he had long been well acquainted with the
state of her husband's business. In the year 1772, Mr. Thrale was in money difficulties. Johnson
writes to her almost as if he were a partner in the business. 'The first consequence of our
late trouble ought to be an endeavour to brew at a cheaper rate...Unless this can be done,
nothing can help us; and if this be done, we shall not want help.' Piozzi Letters, i.57. He
urges economy in the household, and continues:--'But the fury of housewifery will soon subside;
and little effect will be produced, but by methodical attention and even frugality.' Ib. p.64.
In another letter he writes:--'This year will undoubtedly be an year of struggle and difficulty;
but I doubt not of getting through it; and the difficulty will grow yearly less and less. Supposing
that our former mode of life kept us on the level, we shall, by the present contraction of
expense, gain upon fortune a thousand a year, even though no improvements can be made in the
conduct of the trade.' Piozzi Letters, i. 66. Four years later, he writes:--'To-day I went
to look into my places at the Borough. I called on Mr. Perkins in the counting-house. He crows
and triumphs, as we go on we shall double our business.' Ib. p. 333. When the executors first
met, he wrote:--'We met to-day, and were told of mountainous difficulties, till I was provoked
to tell them, that if there were really so much to do and suffer, there would be no executors
in the world. Do not suffer yourself to be terrified.' Ib. ii. 197. Boswell says (ante, ii.
207), 'made several calculations of the expense and profit; for he delighted in exercising
his mind on the science of numbers.' The letter (ante, ii. 51, note 3.

[282] Johnson, as soon as the will was read, wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'You have, £500 for your
immediate expenses, and, £2000 a year, with both the houses and all the goods.' Piozzi Letters,
ii. 192. Beattie wrote on June 1:--'Everybody says Mr. Thrale should have left Johnson £200
a year; which, from a fortune like his, would have been a very inconsiderable deduction.' Beattie's
Life, ed. 1824, p. 290.

[283] Miss Burney thus writes of the day of the sale:--'Mrs. Thrale went early to town, to
meet all the executors, and Mr. Barclay, the Quaker, who was the bidder. She was in great agitation
of mind, and told me if all went well she would wave a white handkerchief out of the coach-window.
Four o'clock came and dinner was ready, and no Mrs. Thrale. Queeny and I went out upon the
lawn, where we sauntered in eager expectation, till near six, and then the coach appeared in
sight, and a white handkerchief was waved from it.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 34. The brewery
was sold for £135,000. See post, June 16, 1781.

[284] See post, paragraph before June 22, 1784.

[285] Baretti, in a MS. note on Piozzi Letters, i. 369, says that 'the two last years of Thrale's
life his brewery brought him £30,000 a year neat profit.'

[286] In the fourth edition of his Dictionary, published in 1773, Johnson introduced a second
definition of patriot:--'It is sometimes used for a factious disturber of the government.'
Gibbon (Misc. Works, ii. 77) wrote on Feb. 21, 1772:--'Charles Fox is commenced patriot, and
is already attempting to pronounce the words, country, liberty, corruption, &c.; with what
success time will discover.' Forty years before Johnson begged not to meet patriots, Sir Robert
Walpole said:--'A patriot, Sir! why patriots spring up like mushrooms. I could raise fifty
of them within the four-and-twenty hours. I have raised many of them in one night. It is but
refusing to gratify an unreasonable or an insolent demand, and up starts a patriot. I have
never been afraid of making patriots; but I disdain and despise all their efforts.' Coxe's
Walpole, i. 659. See ante, ii. 348, and iii. 66.

[287] He was tried on Feb. 5 and 6, 1781. Ann. Reg. xxiv. 217.

[288] Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 210) records a dinner on a Tuesday in this year. (Like Mrs.
Thrale and Miss Burney, she cared nothing for dates.) It was in the week after Thrale's death.
It must have been the dinner here mentioned by Boswell; for it was at a Bishop's (Shipley of
St. Asaph), and Sir Joshua and Boswell were among the guests. Why Boswell recorded none of
Johnson's conversation may be guessed from what she tells. 'I was heartily disgusted,' she
says, 'with Mr. Boswell, who came up stairs after dinner much disordered with wine.' (See post,
p. 109). The following morning Johnson called on her. 'He reproved me,' she writes, 'with pretended
sharpness for reading Les Pensées de Pascal, alleging that as a good Protestant I ought to
abstain from books written by Catholics. I was beginning to stand upon my defence, when he
took me with both hands, and with a tear running down his cheeks, "Child," said he, with the
most affecting earnestness, "I am heartily glad that you read pious books, by whomsoever they
may be written.'"

[290] No. 7.

[291] See ante, iii. 302.

[292] Richard Berenger, Esq., many years Gentleman of the Horse, and first Equerry to his present
Majesty. MALONE. According to Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 156), he was Johnson's 'standard of true
elegance.'

[293] See ante, iii. 186.

[294] Johnson (Works, vii. Dryden employed his mornings in writing; dined en famille; and then
went to Wills's; only he came home earlier a'nights'

[295] Mr. Foss says of Blackstone:--'Ere he had been long on the bench he experienced the bad
effects of the studious habits in which he had injudiciously indulged in his early life, and
of his neglect to take the necessary amount of exercise, to which he was specially averse.'
He died at the age of 56. Foss's Judges, viii. 250. He suffered greatly from his corpulence.
His portrait in the Bodleian shews that he was a very fat man. Malone says that Scott (afterwards
Lord Stowell) wrote to Blackstone's family to apologise for Boswell's anecdote. Prior's Malone,
p. 415. Scott would not have thought any the worse of Blackstone for his bottle of port; both
he and his brother, the Chancellor, took a great deal of it. 'Lord Eldon liked plain port;
the stronger the better.' Twiss's Eldon, iii. 486. Some one asked him whether Lord Stowell
took much exercise. 'None,' he said, 'but the exercise of eating and drinking.' Ib. p. 302.
Yet both men got through a vast deal of hard work, and died, Eldon at the age of 86, and Stowell
of 90.

[296] See this explained, pp. 52, 53 of this volume. BOSWELL.

[297] See ante, ii. 7.

[298] William Scott was a tutor of University College at the age of nineteen. He held the office
for ten years--to 1775. He wrote to his father in 1772 about his younger brother John (afterwards
Lord Eldon), who had just made a run-away match:--'The business in which I am engaged is so
extremely disagreeable in itself, and so destructive to health (if carried on with such success
as can render it at all considerable in point of profit) that I do not wonder at his unwillingness
to succeed me in it.' Twiss's Eldon, i. 47, 74.

[299] The account of her marriage given By John Wesley in a letter to his brother-in-law, Mr.
Hall, is curious. He wrote on Dec. 22, 1747:--'More than twelve years ago you told me God had
revealed it to you that you should marry my youngest sister ... You asked and gained her consent...
In a few days you had a counter-revelation, that you was not to marry her, but her sister.
This last error was far worse than the first. But you was not quite above conviction. So, in
spite of her poor astonished parents, of her brothers, of all your vows and promises, you shortly
after jilted the younger and married the elder sister.' Wesley's Journal, ii. 39. Mrs. Hall
suffered greatly for marrying a wretch who had so cruelly treated her own sister, Southey's
Wesley, i. 369.

[300] See ante, iii. 269.

[301] The original 'Robinhood' was a debating society which met near Temple-Bar. Some twenty
years before this time Goldsmith belonged to it, and, it was said, Burke. Forster's Goldsmith,
i. 287, and Prior's Burke, p. 79. The president was a baker by trade. 'Goldsmith, after hearing
him give utterance to a train of strong and ingenious reasoning, exclaimed to Derrick, "That
man was meant by nature for a Lord Chancellor." Derrick replied, "No, no, not so high; he is
only intended for Master of the Rolls."' Prior's Goldsmith, i. 420. Fielding, in 1752, in The
Covent-Garden Journal, Nos. 8 and 9, takes off this Society and the baker. A fragment of a
report of their discussions which he pretends to have discovered, begins thus:--'This evenin
the questin at the Robinhood was, whether relidgin was of any youse to a sosyaty; baken bifor
mee To'mmas Whytebred, baker.' Horace Walpole (Letters, iv. 288), in 1764, wrote of the visit
of a French gentleman to England, 'He has seen ... Jews, Quakers, Mr. Pitt, the Royal Society,
the Robinhood, Lord Chief-Justice Pratt, the Arts-and-Sciences, &c.' Romilly (Life, i. 168),
in a letter dated May 22, 1781, says that during the past winter several of these Sunday religious
debating societies had been established. 'The auditors,' he was assured, 'were mostly weak,
well-meaning people, who were inclined to Methodism;' but among the speakers were 'some designing
villains, and a few coxcombs, with more wit than understanding.' 'Nothing,' he continues, 'could
raise up panegyrists of these societies but what has lately happened, an attempt to suppress
them. The Solicitor-General has brought a bill into Parliament for this purpose. The bill is
drawn artfully enough; for, as these societies are held on Sundays, and people pay for admittance,
he has joined them with a famous tea-drinking house [Carlisle House], involving them both in
the same fate, and entitling his bill, A Bill to regulate certain Abuses and Profanations of
the Lord's Day.' The Bill was carried; on a division none being found among the Noes but the
two tellers. The penalties for holding a meeting were £200 for the master of the house, £100
for the moderator of the meeting, and £50 for each of the servants at the door. Parl. Hist.
xxii. 262, 279.

[302] St. Matthew, xxvii. 52.

[303] I Corinthians, xv. 37.

[304] As this subject frequently recurs in these volumes, the reader may be led erroneously
to suppose that Dr. Johnson was so fond of such discussions, as frequently to introduce them.
But the truth is, that the authour himself delighted in talking concerning ghosts, and what
he has frequently denominated the mysterious; and therefore took every opportunity of leading
Johnson to converse on such subjects. MALONE. See ante, i. 406.

[305] Macbean (Johnson's old amanuensis, ante, i. 187) is not in Boswell's list of guests;
but in the Pemb. Coll. MSS., there is the following entry on Monday, April 16:--'Yesterday
at dinner were Mrs. Hall, Mr. Levet, Macbean, Boswel (sic), Allen. Time passed in talk after
dinner. At seven, I went with Mrs. Hall to Church, and came back to tea.'

[306] Mrs. Piozzi records (Anec. p. 192) that he said 'a long time after my poor mother's death,
I heard her voice call Sam.' She is so inaccurate that most likely this is merely her version
of the story that Boswell has recorded above. See also ante, i. 405. Lord Macaulay made more
of this story of the voice than it could well bear--'Under the influence of his disease, his
senses became morbidly torpid, and his imagination morbidly active. At one time he would stand
poring on the town clock without being able to tell the hour. At another, he would distinctly
hear his mother, who was many miles off, calling him by his name. But this was not the worst.'
Macaulay's Writings and Speeches, ed. 1871, p. 374.

[307]

     'One wife is too much for most
     husbands to bear,
     But two at a time there's no
     mortal can bear.'

     Act iii. sc. 4.

[308] 'I think a person who is terrified with the imagination of ghosts and spectres much more
reasonable than one who, contrary to the reports of all historians, sacred and profane, ancient
and modern, and to the traditions of all nations, thinks the appearance of spirits fabulous
and groundless.' The Spectator, No. 110.

[309] St. Matthew, chap. xxvii. vv. 52, 53. BOSWELL.

[310] Garrick died on Jan. 20, 1779.

[311] Garrick called her Nine, (the Nine Muses). 'Nine,' he said, 'you are a Sunday Woman.'
H. More's Memoirs, i. 113.

[312] See vol. iii. p. 331. BOSWELL.

[313] See ante, ii. 325, note 3.

[315] How fond she and her husband had been is shewn in a letter, in which, in answer to an
invitation, he says:--'As I have not left Mrs. Garrick one day since we were married, near
twenty-eight years, I cannot now leave her.' Garrick Corres. ii. 150. 'Garrick's widow is buried
with him. She survived him forty-three years--"a little bowed-down old woman, who went about
leaning on a gold-headed cane, dressed in deep widow's mourning, and always talking of her
dear Davy." (Pen and Ink Sketches, 1864).' Stanley's Westminster Abbey, ed. 1868, p. 305.

[316] Love's Labour's Lost, act ii. sc. i.

[317] See ante, ii. 461.

[318] Horace Walpole (Letters, vii. 346) describes Hollis as 'a most excellent man, a most
immaculate Whig, but as simple a poor soul as ever existed, except his editor, who has given
extracts from the good creature's diary that are very near as anile as Ashmole's. There are
thanks to God for reaching every birthday, ... and thanks to Heaven for her Majesty's being
delivered of a third or fourth prince, and God send he may prove a good man.' See also Walpole's
Journal of the Reign of George III, i. 287. Dr. Franklin wrote much more highly of him. Speaking
of what he had done, he said:--'It is prodigious the quantity of good that may be done by one
man, if he will make a business of it.' Franklin's Memoirs, ed. 1818, iii. 135.

[319] See p. 77 of this volume. BOSWELL.

[320] See ante, iii. 97.

[321] On April 6 of the next year this gentleman, when Secretary of the Treasury, destroyed
himself, overwhelmed, just as Cowper had been, by the sense of the responsibility of an office
which had been thrust upon him. See Hannah More's Memoirs, i. 245, and Walpole's Letters, viii.
206.

[322] 'It is commonly supposed that the uniformity of a studious life affords no matter for
a narration; but the truth is, that of the most studious life a great part passes without study.

[323] Hannah More wrote of this day (Memoirs, i. 212):--'I accused Dr. Johnson of not having
done justice to the Allegro and Penseroso. He spoke disparagingly of both. I praised Lycidas,
which he absolutely abused, adding, "if Milton had not written the Paradise Lost, he would
have only ranked among the minor Poets. He was a Phidias that could cut a Colossus out of a
rock, but could not cut heads out of cherry-stones."' See post, June 13, 1784. The Allegro
and Penseroso Johnson described as 'two noble efforts of imagination.' Of Lycidas he wrote:--'Surely
no man could have fancied that he read it with pleasure, had he not known the author.' Works,
vii. 121, 2.

[324] Murphy (Life of Garrick, p. 374) says 'Shortly after Garrick's death Johnson was told
in a large company, "You are recent from the Lives of the Poets; why not add your friend Garrick
to the number?" Johnson's answer was, "I do not like to be officious; but if Mrs. Garrick will
desire me to do it, I shall be very willing to pay that last tribute to the memory of a man
I loved." 'Murphy adds that he himself took care that Mrs. Garrick was informed of what Johnson
had said, but that no answer was ever received.

[325] Miss Burney wrote in May:--'Dr. Johnson was charming, both in spirits and humour. I really
think he grows gayer and gayer daily, and more ductile and pleasant.' In June she wrote:--'I
found him in admirable good-humour, and our journey [to Streatham] was extremely pleasant.
I thanked him for the last batch of his poets, and we talked them over almost all the way.'
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 23, 44. Beattie, a week or two later, wrote:--'Johnson grows in
grace as he grows in years. He not only has better health and a fresher complexion than ever
he had before (at least since I knew him), but he has contracted a gentleness of manner which
pleases everybody.' Beattie's Life, ed. 1824, p. 289.

[326] See ante, iii. 65. Wilkes was by this time City Chamberlain. 'I think I see him at this
moment,' said Rogers (Table-Talk, p. 43), 'walking through the crowded streets of the city,
as Chamberlain, on his way to Guildhall, in a scarlet coat, military boots, and a bag-wig--the
hackney-coachmen in vain calling out to him, "A coach, your honour."'

[327] See ante, ii. 201, for Beattie's Essay on Truth.

[328] Thurot, in the winter of 1759-60, with a small squadron made descents on some of the
Hebrides and on the north-eastern coast of Ireland. In a sea fight off Ireland he was killed
and his ships were taken. Gent. Mag. xxx. 107. Horace Walpole says that in the alarm raised
by him in Ireland, 'the bankers there stopped payment.' Memoirs of the Reign of George II,
iii. 224.

[329]

     'Some for renown on scraps of learning doat,
      And think they grow immortal as they quote.'

Young's Love of Fame, sat. i. Cumberland (Memoirs, ii. 226) says that Mr. Dilly, speaking of
'the profusion of quotations which some writers affectedly make use of, observed that he knew
a Presbyterian parson who, for eighteenpence, would furnish any pamphleteer with as many scraps
of Greek and Latin as would pass him off for an accomplished classic.'

[330] Cowley was quite out of fashion. Richardson (Corres. ii. 229) wrote more than thirty
years earlier:--'I wonder Cowley is so absolutely neglected.' Pope, a dozen years or so before
Richardson, asked,

     'Who now reads Cowley? if he pleases yet,
      His moral pleases, not his pointed wit.'

Imitations of Horace, Epis. ii. i. 75.

[331] See ante, ii. 58, and iii. 276.

[332] 'There was a club held at the King's Head in Pall Mall that arrogantly called itself
The World. Lord Stanhope (now Lord Chesterfield) was a member. Epigrams were proposed to be
written on the glasses by each member after dinner. Once when Dr. Young was invited thither,
the doctor would have declined writing because he had no diamond, Lord Stanhope lent him his,
and he wrote immediately--

     "Accept a miracle," &c.'

Spence's Anecdotes, p. 377. Dr. Maty (Memoirs of Chesterfield, i. 227) assigns the lines to
Pope, and lays the scene at Lord Cobham's. Spence, however, gives Young himself as his authority.

[333] 'Aug. 1778. "I wonder," said Mrs. Thrale, "you bear with my nonsense." "No, madam, you
never talk nonsense; you have as much sense and more wit than any woman I know." "Oh," cried
Mrs. Thrale, blushing, "it is my turn to go under the table this morning, Miss Burney." "And
yet," continued the doctor, with the most comical look, "I have known all the wits from Mrs.
Montagu down to Bet Flint." "Bet Flint!" cried Mrs. Thrale. "Pray, who is she?" "Oh, a fine
character, madam. She was habitually a slut and a drunkard, and occasionally a thief and a
harlot.... Mrs. Williams," he added, "did not love Bet Flint, but Bet Flint made herself very
easy about that."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 87, 90.

[334] Johnson, whose memory was wonderfully retentive [see ante, i. 39], remembered the first
four lines of this curious production, which have been communicated to me by a young lady of
his acquaintance:--

     'When first I drew my vital breath,
     A little minikin I came upon
     earth;
     And then I came from a dark
     abode,
     Into this gay and gaudy world.'
     BOSWELL.

[335] The Sessional Reports of the Old Bailey Trials for 1758, p. 278, contain a report of
the trial. The Chief Justice Willes was in the Commission, but, according to the Report, it
was before the Recorder that Bet Flint was tried. It may easily be, however, that either the
reporter or the printer has blundered. It is only by the characters * and  that the trials
before the Chief Justice and the Recorder are distinguished. Bet had stolen not only the counterpane,
but five other articles. The prosecutrix could not prove that the articles were hers, and not
a captain's, whose servant she said she had been, and who was now abroad. On this ground the
prisoner was acquitted. Of Chief Justice Willes, Horace Walpole writes:--'He was not wont to
disguise any of his passions. That for gaming was notorious; for women unbounded.' He relates
an anecdote of his wit and licentiousness. Walpole's Reign of George II, i. 89. He had been
Johnson's schoolfellow (ante, i. 45).

[336] Burke is meant. See ante, ii. 131, where Johnson said that Burke spoke too familiarly;
and post, May 15, 1784, where he said that 'when Burke lets himself down to jocularity he is
in the kennel.'

[337] Wilkes imperfectly recalled to mind the following passage in Plutarch:--'[Greek: Euphranor
ton Thaesea ton heatou to Parrhasiou parebale, legon tor men ekeinou hroda bebrokenai, tor
de eautou krea boeia.]' 'Euphranor, comparing his own Theseus with Parrhasius's, said that
Parrhasius's had fed on roses, but his on beef.' Plutarch, ed. 1839, iii. 423.

[338] Portugal, receiving from Brazil more gold than it needed for home uses, shipped a large
quantity to England. It was said, though probably with exaggeration, that the weekly packet-boat
from Lisbon, brought one week with another, more than £50,000 in gold to England. Smith's Wealth
of Nations, book iv. ch. 6. Portugal pieces were current in our colonies, and no doubt were
commonly sent to them from London. It was natural therefore that they should be selected for
this legal fiction.

[339] See ante, ii. III.

[340] 'Whenever the whole of our foreign trade and consumption exceeds our exportation of commodities,
our money must go to pay our debts so contracted, whether melted or not melted down. If the
law makes the exportation of our coin penal, it will be melted down; if it leaves the exportation
of our coin free, as in Holland, it will be carried out in specie. One way or other, go it
must, as we see in Spain.... Laws made against exportation of money or bullion will be all
in vain. Restraint or liberty in that matter makes no country rich or poor.' Locke's Works,
ed. 1824, iv. 160.

[341] 'Nov. 14, 1779. Mr. Beauclerk has built a library in Great Russellstreet, that reaches
half way to Highgate. Everybody goes to see it; it has put the Museum's nose quite out of joint.'
Walpole's Letters, vii. 273. It contained upwards of 30,000 volumes, and the sale extended
over fifty days. Two days' sale were given to the works on divinity, including, in the words
of the catalogue, 'Heterodox! et Increduli. Angl. Freethinkers and their opponents.' Dr. Johnson:
His Friends and His Critics, p. 315. It sold for £5,011 (ante, in. 420, note 4). Wilkes's own
library--a large one--had been sold in 1764, in a five days' sale, as is shewn by the Auctioneer's
Catalogue, which is in the Bodleian.

[342] 'Our own language has from the Reformation to the present time been chiefly dignified
and adorned by the works of our divines, who, considered as commentators, controvertists, or
preachers, have undoubtedly left all other nations far behind them.' The Idler, No. 91.

[343] Mr. Wilkes probably did not know that there is in an English sermon the most comprehensive
and lively account of that entertaining faculty, for which he himself is so much admired. It
is in Dr. Barrow's first volume, and fourteenth sermon, 'Against foolish Talking and Jesting.'
My old acquaintance, the late Corbyn Morris, in his ingenious Essay on Wit, Humour, and Ridicule,
calls it 'a profuse description of Wit;' but I do not see how it could be curtailed, without
leaving out some good circumstance of discrimination. As it is not generally known, and may
perhaps dispose some to read sermons, from which they may receive real advantage, while looking
only for entertainment, I shall here subjoin it:--'But first (says the learned preacher) it
may be demanded, what the thing we speak of is? Or what this facetiousness (or wit as he calls
it before) doth import? To which questions I might reply, as Democritus did to him that asked
the definition of a man, "'Tis that which we all see and know." Any one better apprehends what
it is by acquaintance, than I can inform him by description. It is, indeed, a thing so versatile
and multiform, appearing in so many shapes, so many postures, so many garbs, so variously apprehended
by several eyes and judgements, that it seemeth no less hard to settle a clear and certain
notion thereof, than to make a portrait of Proteus, or to define the figure of the fleeting
air. Sometimes it lieth in pat allusion to a known story, or in seasonable application of a
trivial saying, or in forging an apposite tale; sometimes it playeth in words and phrases,
taking advantage from the ambiguity of their sense, or the affinity of their sound: sometimes
it is wrapped in a dress of humorous expression: sometimes it lurketh under an odd similitude:
sometimes it is lodged in a sly question, in a smart answer, in a quirkish reason, in a shrewd
intimation, in cunningly diverting or cleverly retorting an objection: sometimes it is couched
in a bold scheme of speech, in a tart irony, in a lusty hyperbole, in a startling metaphor,
in a plausible reconciling of contradictions, or in acute nonsense: sometimes a scenical representation
of persons or things, a counterfeit speech, a mimical look or gesture, passeth for it: sometimes
an affected simplicity, sometimes a presumptuous bluntness giveth it being: sometimes it riseth
only from a lucky hitting upon what is strange: sometimes from a crafty wresting obvious matter
to the purpose. Often it consisteth in one knows not what, and springeth up one can hardly
tell how. Its ways are unaccountable, and inexplicable; being answerable to the numberless
rovings of fancy, and windings of language. It is, in short, a manner of speaking out of the
simple and plain way, (such as reason teacheth and proveth things by,) which by a pretty surprising
uncouthness in conceit or expression, doth affect and amuse the fancy, stirring in it some
wonder, and breeding some delight thereto. It raiseth admiration, as signifying a nimble sagacity
of apprehension, a special felicity of invention, a vivacity of spirit, and reach of wit more
than vulgar; it seeming to argue a rare quickness of parts, that one can fetch in remote conceits
applicable; a notable skill, that he can dextrously accommodate them to the purpose before
him; together with a lively briskness of humour, not apt to damp those sportful flashes of
imagination. (Whence in Aristotle such persons are termed [Greek: hepidexioi], dextrous men,
and [Greek: eustrophoi], men of facile or versatile manners, who can easily turn themselves
to all things, or turn all things to themselves.) It also procureth delight, by gratifying
curiosity with its rareness, as semblance of difficulty: (as monsters, not for their beauty,
but their rarity; as juggling tricks, not for their use, but their abstruseness, are beheld
with pleasure:) by diverting the mind from its road of serious thoughts; by instilling gaiety
and airiness of spirit; by provoking to such dispositions of spirit in way of emulation or
complaisance; and by seasoning matters, otherwise distasteful or insipid, with an unusual and
thence grateful tang.' BOSWELL. Morris's Essay was published in 1744. Hume wrote:--'Pray do
you not think that a proper dedication may atone for what is objectionable in my Dialogues'!
I am become much of my friend Corbyn Morrice's mind, who says that he writes all his books
for the sake of the dedications.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 147.

[344] The quarrel arose from the destruction by George II. of George I.'s will (ante, ii. 342).
The King of Prussia, Frederick the Great, was George I.'s grandson. 'Vague rumours spoke of
a large legacy to the Queen of Prussia [Frederick's mother]. Of that bequest demands were afterwards
said to have been frequently and roughly made by her son, the great King of Prussia, between
whom and his uncle subsisted much inveteracy.' Walpole's Letters, i. cxx.

[345] When I mentioned this to the Bishop of Killaloe, 'With the goat,' said his Lordship.
Such, however, is the engaging politeness and pleasantry of Mr. Wilkes, and such the social
good humour of the Bishop, that when they dined together at Mr. Dilly's, where I also was,
they were mutually agreeable. BOSWELL. It was not the lion, but the leopard, that shall lie
down with the kid. Isaiah, xi. 6.

[346] Mr. Benjamin Stillingfleet, authour of tracts relating to natural history, &c. BOSWELL.

[347] Mrs. Montagu, so early as 1757, wrote of Mr. Stillingfleet:--'I assure you our philosopher
is so much a man of pleasure, he has left off his old friends and his blue stockings, and is
at operas and other gay assemblies every night.' Montagu's Letters, iv. 117.

[348] See ante, in. 293, note 5.

[349] Miss Burney thus describes her:--'She is between thirty and forty, very short, very fat,
but handsome; splendidly and fantastically dressed, rouged not unbecomingly yet evidently,
and palpably desirous of gaining notice and admiration. She has an easy levity in her air,
manner, voice, and discourse, that speak (sic) all within to be comfortable.... She is one
of those who stand foremost in collecting all extraordinary or curious people to her London
conversaziones, which, like those of Mrs. Vesey, mix the rank and the literature, and exclude
all beside.... Her parties are the most brilliant in town.' Miss Burney then describes one
of these parties, at which were present Johnson, Burke, and Reynolds. 'The company in general
were dressed with more brilliancy than at any rout I ever was at, as most of them were going
to the Duchess of Cumberland's.' Miss Burney herself was 'surrounded by strangers, all dressed
superbly, and all looking saucily.... Dr. Johnson was standing near the fire, and environed
with listeners.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 179, 186, 190. Leslie wrote of Lady Corke in 1834
(Autobiographical Recollections, i. 137, 243):--'Notwithstanding her great age, she is very
animated. The old lady, who was a lion-hunter in her youth, is as much one now as ever.' She
ran after a Boston negro named Prince Saunders, who 'as he put his Christian name "Prince"
on his cards without the addition of Mr., was believed to be a native African prince, and soon
became a lion of the first magnitude in fashionable circles.' She died in 1840.

[350] 'A lady once ventured to ask Dr. Johnson how he liked Yorick's [Sterne's] Sermons. "I
know nothing about them, madam," was his reply. But some time afterwards, forgetting himself,
he severely censured them. The lady retorted:--"I understood you to say, Sir, that you had
never read them." "No, Madam, I did read them, but it was in a stage-coach; I should not have
even deigned to look at them had I been at large." Cradock's Memoirs, p. 208.

[351] See ante, iii. 382, note 1.

[352] Next day I endeavoured to give what had happened the most ingenious turn I could, by
the following verses:--

To THE HONOURABLE Miss MONCKTON.

     'Not that with th' excellent Montrose
        I had the happiness to dine;
      Not that I late from table rose,
        From Graham's wit, from generous wine.

      It was not these alone which led
        On sacred manners to encroach;
      And made me feel what most I dread,
        JOHNSON'S just frown, and self-reproach.

      But when I enter'd, not abash'd,
        From your bright eyes were shot such rays,
      At once intoxication flash'd,
        And all my frame was in a blaze.

      But not a brilliant blaze I own,
        Of the dull smoke I'm yet asham'd;
      I was a dreary ruin grown,
        And not enlighten'd though inflam'd.

      Victim at once to wine and love,
        I hope, MARIA, you'll forgive;
      While I invoke the powers above,
        That henceforth I may wiser live.'

The lady was generously forgiving, returned me an obliging answer, and I thus obtained an Act
of Oblivion, and took care never to offend again. BOSWELL.

[353] See ante, ii. 436, and iv. 88, note I.

[354] On May 22 Horace Walpole wrote (Letters, viii. 44):--'Boswell, that quintessence of busybodies,
called on me last week, and was let in, which he should not have been, could I have foreseen
it. After tapping many topics, to which I made as dry answers as an unbribed oracle, he vented
his errand. "Had I seen Dr. Johnson's Lives of the Poets?" I said slightly, "No, not yet;"
and so overlaid his whole impertinence.'

[355] See ante, iii. 1.

[356] See ante, ii. 47, note 2; 352, note I; and iii. 376, for explanations of like instances
of Boswell's neglect.

[357] See ante, i. 298, note 4.

[358] 'He owned he sometimes talked for victory.' Boswell's Hebrides, opening pages.

[359] The late Right Hon. William Gerard Hamilton. MALONE.

[360] Dr. Johnson, being told of a man who was thankful for being introduced to him, 'as he
had been convinced in a long dispute that an opinion which he had embraced as a settled truth
was no better than a vulgar error, "Nay," said he, "do not let him be thankful, for he was
right, and I was wrong." Like his Uncle Andrew in the ring at Smithfield, Johnson, in a circle
of disputants, was determined neither to be thrown nor conquered.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 139.
Johnson, in The Adventurer, No. 85, seems to describe his own talk. 'I am inclined to think,'
he writes, 'that he did injustice to his own opinions by the unconscious exaggerations of an
intellect emphatically polemical; and that when thinking without an adversary in view, he was
willing to make room for a great portion of the truths he seemed to deny.' Mill's Autobiography,
p. 201. See also ante, ii. 100, 450, in. 23, 277, 331; and post, May 18, 1784, and Steevens's
account of Johnson just before June 22, 1784.

[361] Thomas Shaw, D.D., author of Travels to Barbary and the Levant.

[362] See ante, iii. 314.

[363] The friend very likely was Boswell himself. He was one of 'these tanti men.' 'I told
Paoli that in the very heat of youth I felt the nom est tanti, the omnia vanitas of one who
has exhausted all the sweets of his being, and is weary with dull repetition. I told him that
I had almost become for ever incapable of taking a part in active life.' Boswell's Corsica,
ed. 1879, p. 193.

[364] Letters on the English Nation: By Batista Angeloni, a Jesuit, who resided many years
in London. Translated from the original Italian by the Author of the Marriage Act. A Novel.
2 vols. London [no printer's name given], 1755. Shebbeare published besides six Letters to
the People of England in the years 1755-7, for the last of which he was sentenced to the pillory.
Ante, iii. 315, note I. Horace Walpole (Letters, iii. 74) described him in 1757 as 'a broken
Jacobite physician, who has threatened to write himself into a place or the pillory.'

[365] I recollect a ludicrous paragraph in the newspapers, that the King had pensioned both
a He-bear and a She-bear. BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 66, and post, April 28, 1783.

[366]

        Witness, ye chosen train
     Who breathe the sweets of his Saturnian reign;
     Witness ye Hills, ye Johnsons, Scots, Shebbeares,
     Hark to my call, for some of you have ears.'

Heroic Epistle. See post, under June 16, 1784.

[367] In this he was unlike the King, who, writes Horace Walpole,' expecting only an attack
on Chambers, bought it to tease, and began reading it to, him; but, finding it more bitter
on himself, flung it down on the floor in a passion, and would read no more.' Journal of the
Reign of George III, i. 187.

[368] They were published in 1773 in a pamphlet of 16 pages, and, with the good fortune that
attends a muse in the peerage, reached a third edition in the year. To this same earl the second
edition of Byron's Hours of Idleness was 'dedicated by his obliged ward and affectionate kinsman,
the author.' In English Bards and Scotch Reviewers, he is abused in the passage which begins:--

     'No muse will cheer with renovating smile,
      The paralytic puling of Carlisle.'

In a note Byron adds:--'The Earl of Carlisle has lately published an eighteen-penny pamphlet
on the state of the stage, and offers his plan for building a new theatre. It is to be hoped
his lordship will be permitted to bring forward anything for the stage--except his own tragedies.'
In the third canto of Childe Harold Byron makes amends. In writing of the death of Lord Carlisle's
youngest son at Waterloo, he says:--

     'Their praise is hymn'd by loftier harps than mine;
      Yet one I would select from that proud throng,
      Partly because they blend me with his line,
      And partly that I did his Sire some wrong.'

For his lordship's tragedy see post, under Nov. 19, 1783.

[369] Men of rank and fortune, however, should be pretty well assured of having a real claim
to the approbation of the publick, as writers, before they venture to stand forth. Dryden,
in his preface to All for Love, thus expresses himself:--

'Men of pleasant conversation (at least esteemed so) and endued with a trifling kind of fancy,
perhaps helped out by [with] a smattering of Latin, are ambitious to distinguish themselves
from the herd of gentlemen, by their poetry:

     "Rarus enim fermè sensus communis in ilia
             Fortuna,"----[Juvenal, viii. 73.]

And is not this a wretched affectation, not to be contented with what fortune has done for
them, and sit down quietly with their estates, but they must call their wits in question, and
needlessly expose their nakedness to publick view? Not considering that they are not to expect
the same approbation from sober men, which they have found from their flatterers after the
third bottle: If a little glittering in discourse has passed them on us for witty men, where
was the necessity of undeceiving the world? Would a man who has an ill title to an estate,
but yet is in possession of it, would he bring it of his own accord to be tried at Westminster?
We who write, if we want the talents [talent], yet have the excuse that we do it for a poor
subsistence; but what can be urged in their defence, who, not having the vocation of poverty
to scribble, out of mere wantonness take pains to make themselves ridiculous? Horace was certainly
in the right where he said, "That no man is satisfied with his own condition." A poet is not
pleased, because he is not rich; and the rich are discontented because the poets will not admit
them of their number.' BOSWELL. 1803, xi. 293.

[370] See ante, i. 402.

[371] Wordsworth, it should seem, held with Johnson in this. When he read the article in the
Edinburgh Review on Lord Byron's early poems, he remarked that 'though Byron's verses were
probably poor enough, yet such an attack was abominable,--that a young nobleman, who took to
poetry, deserved to be encouraged, not ridiculed.' Rogers's Table-Talk, p. 234, note.

[372] Dr. Barnard, formerly Dean of Derry. See ante, iii. 84.

[373] This gave me very great pleasure, for there had been once a pretty smart altercation
between Dr. Barnard and him, upon a question, whether a man could improve himself after the
age of forty-five; when Johnson in a hasty humour, expressed himself in a manner not quite
civil. Dr. Barnard made it the subject of a copy of pleasant verses, in which he supposed himself
to learn different perfections from different men. They concluded with delicate irony:--

     'Johnson shall teach me how to place
      In fairest light each borrow'd grace;
        From him I'll learn to write;
      Copy his clear familiar style,
      And by the roughness of his file
        Grow, like himself, polite.'

I know not whether Johnson ever saw the poem, but I had occasion to find that as Dr. Barnard
and he knew each other better, their mutual regard increased. BOSWELL. See Appendix A.

[374] See ante, ii. 357, iii. 309, and post, March 23, 1783.

[375] 'Sir Joshua once asked Lord B---- to dine with Dr. Johnson and the rest, but though a
man of rank and also of good information, he seemed as much alarmed at the idea as if you had
tried to force him into one of the cages at Exeter-Change.' Hazlitt's Conversations of Northcote,
p. 41.

[376] Yet when he came across them he met with much respect. At Alnwick he was, he writes,
'treated with great civility by the Duke of Northumberland.' Piozzi Letters, i. 108. At Inverary,
the Duke and Duchess of Argyle shewed him great attention. Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 25. In
fact, all through his Scotch tour he was most politely welcomed by 'the great.' At Chatsworth,
he was 'honestly pressed to stay' by the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire (post, Sept. 9, 1784).
See ante, iii. 21. On the other hand, Mrs. Barbauld says:--'I believe it is true that in England
genius and learning obtain less personal notice than in most other parts of Europe.' She censures
'the contemptuous manner in which Lady Wortley Montagu mentioned Richardson:--"The doors of
the Great," she says, "were never opened to him."' Richardson Corres. i. clxxiv.

[377] When Lord Elibank was seventy years old, he wrote:--'I shall be glad to go five hundred
miles to enjoy a day of his company.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 12.

[378] Romans, x. 2.

[379] I Peter, iii. 15.

[380] Horace Walpole wrote three years earlier:--' Whig principles are founded on sense; a
Whig may be a fool, a Tory must be so.' Letters, vii. 88.

[381] Mr. Barclay, a descendant of Robert Barclay, of Ury, the celebrated apologist of the
people called Quakers, and remarkable for maintaining the principles of his venerable progenitor,
with as much of the elegance of modern manners, as is consistent with primitive simplicity,
BOSWELL.

[382] Now Bishop of Llandaff, one of the poorest Bishopricks in this kingdom. His Lordship
has written with much zeal to show the propriety of equalizing the revenues of Bishops. He
has informed us that he has burnt all his chemical papers. The friends of our excellent constitution,
now assailed on every side by innovators and levellers, would have less regretted the suppression
of some of this Lordship's other writings. BOSWELL. Boswell refers to A Letter to the Archbishop
of Canterbury by Richard, Lord Bishop of Landaff, 1782. If the revenues were made more equal,
'the poorer Bishops,' the Bishop writes, 'would be freed from the necessity of holding ecclesiastical
preferments in commendam with their Bishopricks,' p. 8.

[383] De Quincey says that Sir Humphry Davy told him, 'that he could scarcely imagine a time,
or a condition of the science, in which the Bishop's Essays would be superannuated.' De Quincey's
Works, ii. 106. De Quincey describes the Bishop as being 'always a discontented man, a railer
at the government and the age, which could permit such as his to pine away ingloriously in
one of the humblest among the Bishopricks.' Ib. p. 107. He was, he adds, 'a true Whig,' and
would have been made Archbishop of York had his party staid in power a little longer in 1807.'

[384] Rasselas, chap. xi.

[385] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 30.

[386] 'They heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden.' Genesis, iii. 8. Horace,
Epist. i. 2. 41.

[388] See ante, p. 59.

[389] See ante, iii. 251.

[390] See ante, iii. 136.

[391] This assertion is disproved by a comparison of dates. The first four satires of Young
were published in 1725; The South Sea scheme (which appears to be meant,) was in 1720. MALONE.
In Croft's Life of Young, which Johnson adopted, it is stated:--'By the Universal Passion he
acquired no vulgar fortune, more than £3000. A considerable sum had already been swallowed
up in the South Sea.' Johnson's Works, viii. 430. Some of Young's poems were published before 1720.

[392] Crabbe got Johnson to revise his poem, The Village (post, under March 23, 1783). He states,
that 'the Doctor did not readily comply with requests for his opinion; not from any unwillingness
to oblige, but from a painful contention in his mind between a desire of giving pleasure and
a determination to speak truth.' Crabbe's Works, ii. 12. See ante, ii. 51, 195, and iii. 373.

[393] Pope's Essay on Man, iv. 390. See ante, iii. 6, note 2.

[394] He had within the last seven weeks gone up drunk, at least twice, to a lady's drawing-room.
Ante, pp. 88, note 1, and 109.

[395] Mr. Croker, though without any authority, prints unconscious.

[396] I Corinthians, ix. 27. See ante, 295.

[397] 'We walk by faith, not by sight.' 2 Corinthians, v. 7

[398] Dr. Ogden, in his second sermon On the Articles of the Christian Faith, with admirable
acuteness thus addresses the opposers of that Doctrine, which accounts for the confusion, sin
and misery, which we find in this life: 'It would be severe in GOD, you think, to degrade us
to such a sad state as this, for the offence of our first parents: but you can allow him to
place us in it without any inducement. Are our calamities lessened for not being ascribed to
Adam? If your condition be unhappy, is it not still unhappy, whatever was the occasion? with
the aggravation of this reflection, that if it was as good as it was at first designed, there
seems to be somewhat the less reason to look for its amendment.' BOSWELL.

[399] 'Which taketh away the sin' &c. St. John, i. 29.

[400] See Boswell's Hebrides, August 22.

[401] This unfortunate person, whose full name was Thomas Fysche Palmer, afterwards went to
Dundee, in Scotland, where he officiated as minister to a congregation of the sect who called
themselves Unitarians, from a notion that they distinctively worship ONE GOD, because they
deny the mysterious doctrine of the TRINITY. They do not advert that the great body of the
Christian Church, in maintaining that mystery, maintain also the Unity of the GODHEAD; the
'TRINITY in UNITY!--three persons and ONE GOD.' The Church humbly adores the DIVINITY as exhibited
in the holy Scriptures. The Unitarian sect vainly presumes to comprehend and define the ALMIGHTY.
Mr. Palmer having heated his mind with political speculations, became so much dissatisfied
with our excellent Constitution, as to compose, publish, and circulate writings, which were
found to be so seditious and dangerous, that upon being found guilty by a Jury, the Court of
Justiciary in Scotland sentenced him to transportation for fourteen years. A loud clamour against
this sentence was made by some Members of both Houses of Parliament; but both Houses approved
of it by a great majority; and he was conveyed to the settlement for convicts in New South
Wales. BOSWELL. This note first appears in the third edition. Mr. Palmer was sentenced to seven
(not fourteen) years transportation in Aug. 1793. It was his fellow prisoner, Mr. Muir, an
advocate, who was sentenced to fourteen years. Ann. Reg. 1793, p. 40. When these sentences
were brought before the House of Commons, Mr. Fox said that it was 'the Lord-Advocate's fervent
wish that his native principles of justice should be introduced into this country; and that
on the ruins of the common law of England should be erected the infamous fabric of Scottish
persecution. ... If that day should ever arrive, if the tyrannical laws of Scotland should
ever be introduced in opposition to the humane laws of England, it would then be high time
for my hon. friends and myself to settle our affairs, and retire to some happier clime, where
we might at least enjoy those rights which God has given to man, and which his nature tells
him he has a right to demand.' Parl. Hist. xxx. 1563. For Unitarians, see ante, ii. 408, note I.

[402] Taken from Herodotus. [Bk. ii. ch. 104.] BOSWELL.

[403] 'The mummies,' says Blakesley, 'have straight hair, and in the paintings the Egyptians
are represented as red, not black.' Ib. note.

[404] See ante, i. 441, and post, March 28, and June 3, 1782.

[405] Mr. Dawkins visited Palmyra in 1751. He had 'an escort of the Aga of Hassia's best Arab
horsemen.' Johnson was perhaps astonished at the size of their caravan, 'which was increased
to about 200 persons.' The writer treats the whole matter with great brevity. Wood's Ruins
of Palmyra, p. 33. On their return the travellers discovered a party of Arab horsemen, who
gave them an alarm. Happily these Arabs were still more afraid of them, and were at once plundered
by the escort, 'who laughed at our remonstrances against their injustice.' Wood's Ruins of
Balbec, p. 2.

[406] He wrote a Life of Watts, which Johnson quoted. Works, viii. 382.

[407] See ante, iii. 422, note 6.

[408] In the first two editions formal.

[409] Johnson maintains this in The Idler, No. 74. 'Few,' he says, 'have reason to complain
of nature as unkindly sparing of the gifts of memory ... The true art of memory is the art
of attention.' See ante, iii. 191.

[410]The first of the definitions given by Johnson of to remember is to bear in mind anything;
not to forget. To recollect he defines to recover to memory. We may, perhaps, assume that Boswell
said, 'I did not recollect that the chair was broken;' and that Johnson replied, 'you mean,
you did not remember. That you did not remember is your own fault. It was in your mind that
it was broken, and therefore you ought to have remembered it. It was not a case of recollecting;
for we recollect, that is, recover to memory, what is not in our mind.' In the passage ante,
i. 112, which begins, 'I indeed doubt if he could have remembered,' we find in the first two
editions not remembered, but recollected. Perhaps this change is due to euphony, as collected
comes a few lines before. Horace Walpole, in one of his Letters (i. 15), distinguishes the
two words, on his revisiting his old school, Eton:--'By the way, the clock strikes the old
cracked sound--I recollect so much, and remember so little.'

[411] He made the same boast at St. Andrews. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 19. He was, I believe,
speaking of his translation of Courayer's Life of Paul Sarpi and Notes, of which some sheets
were printed off. Ante, i. 135.

[412] Horace Walpole, after mentioning that George III's mother, who died in 1772, left but
£27,000 when she was reckoned worth at least £300,000, adds:--'It is no wonder that it became
the universal belief that she had wasted all on Lord Bute. This became still more probable
as he had made the purchase of the estate at Luton, at the price of £114,000, before he was
visibly worth £20,000; had built a palace there, another in town, and had furnished the former
in the most expensive manner, bought pictures and books, and made a vast park and lake.' Journal
of the Reign of George III, i. 19.

[413] To him Boswell dedicated his Thesis as excelsae familiae de Bute spei alterae (ante,
ii. 20). In 1775, he wrote of him:--'He is warmly my friend and has engaged to do for me.'
Letters of Boswell, p. 186

[414] He was mistaken in this. See ante, i. 260; also iii. 420.

[415] In England in like manner, and perhaps for the same reason, all Attorneys have been converted
into Solicitors.

[416] 'There is at Edinburgh a society or corporation of errand boys, called Cawdies, who ply
in the streets at night with paper lanthorns, and are very serviceable in carrying messages.'
Humphrey Clinker. Letter of Aug. 8.

[417] Their services in this sense are noticed in the same letter.

[418]

     'The formal process shall be turned to sport,
     And you dismissed with honour by the Court.'
     FRANCIS. Horace, Satires, ii.i.86.

[419] Mr. Robertson altered this word to jocandi, he having found in Blackstone that to irritate
is actionable. BOSWELL.

[420] Quoted by Johnson, ante, ii. l97.

[421] His god-daughter. See post May 10, 1784.

[422] See post, under Dec. 20, 1782

[423] See ante, i. 155

[424] The will of King Alfred, alluded to in this letter, from the original Saxon, in the library
of Mr. Astle, has been printed at the expense of the University of Oxford. BOSWELL.

[425] He was a surgeon in this small Norfolk town. Dr. Burney's Memoirs, i. 106.

[426] Burney visited Johnson first in 1758, when he was living in Gough Square. Ante, i. 328.

[427] Mme. D'Arblay says that Dr. Johnson sent them to Dr. Burney's house, directed 'For the
Broom Gentleman.' Dr. Burney's Memoirs, ii. 180.

[428] 'Sept. 14, 1781. Dr. Johnson has been very unwell indeed. Once I was quite frightened
about him; but he continues his strange discipline--starving, mercury, opium; and though for
a time half demolished by its severity, he always in the end rises superior both to the disease
and the remedy, which commonly is the most alarming of the two.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 107.

[429] This remark, I have no doubt, is aimed at Hawkins, who (Life, p. 553) pretends to account
for this trip.

[430] Pr. and Med. p. 201. BOSWELL.

[432] The truth of this has been proved by sad experience. BOSWELL. Mrs. Boswell died June
4, 1789. MALONE.

[433] See account of him in the Gent. Mag. Feb. 1785. BOSWELL, see ante, i. 243, note 3.

[434] Mrs. Piozzi (Synonymy, ii. 79), quoting this verse, under Officious, says;--'Johnson,
always thinking neglect the worst misfortune that could befall a man, looked on a character
of this description with less aversion than I do.'

[435]

     'Content thyself to be obscurely good.'

Addisons Cato, act. iv. sc. 4.

[436] In both editions of Sir John Hawkins's Life of Dr. Johnson, 'letter'd ignorance' is printed.
BOSWELL. Mr. Croker (Boswell, p. I) says that 'Mr. Boswell is habitually unjust to Sir J. Hawkins.'
As some kind of balance, I suppose, to this injustice, he suppresses this note.

[437] Johnson repeated this line to me thus:--

     'And Labour steals an hour to die.'

But he afterwards altered it to the present reading. BOSWELL. This poem is printed in the Ann.
Reg. for 1783, p. 189, with the following variations:--l. 18, for 'ready help' 'useful care':
l. 28, 'His single talent,' 'The single talent'; l. 33, 'no throbs of fiery pain,' 'no throbbing
fiery pain'; l. 36, 'and freed,' 'and forced.' On the next page it is printed John Gilpin.

[438] Mr. Croker says that this line shows that 'some of Gray's happy expressions lingered
in Johnson's memory' He quotes a line that comes at the end of the Ode on Vicissitude--'From
busy day, the peaceful night.' This line is not Gray's, but Mason's.

[439] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on Aug. 14, 1780:--'If you want events, Here is Mr. Levett
just come in at fourscore from a walk to Hampstead, eight miles, in August.' Piozzi Letters,
ii. 177.

[440] In the original, March 20. On the afternoon of March 20 Lord North announced in the House
of Commons 'that his Majesty's Ministers were no more.' Parl. Hist. xxii. 1215.

[441] Pr. and Med. p. 209 [207]. BOSWELL.

[442] See ante, ii. 355, iii. 46, iv. 81, 100. Mr. Seward records in his Biographiana, p. 600--without
however giving the year--that 'Johnson being asked what the Opposition meant by their flaming
speeches and violent pamphlets against Lord North's administration, answered: "They mean, Sir,
rebellion; they mean in spite to destroy that country which they are not permitted to govern."'

[443] In the previous December the City of London in an address, writes Horace Walpole, 'besought
the King to remove both his public and private counsellors, and used these stunning and memorable
words:--"Your armies are captured; the wonted superiority of your navies is annihilated, your
dominions are lost." Words that could be used to no other King; no King had ever lost so much
without losing all. If James II. lost his crown, yet the crown lost no dominions.' Journal
of the Reign of George III, ii. 483. The address is given in the Ann. Reg. xxiv. 320. On Aug.
4 of this year Johnson wrote to Dr. Taylor:--'Perhaps no nation not absolutely conquered has
declined so much in so short a time. We seem to be sinking. Suppose the Irish, having already
gotten a free trade and an independent Parliament, should say we will have a King and ally
ourselves with the House of Bourbon, what could be done to hinder or overthrow them?' Mr. Morrison's
Autographs, vol. ii.

[444] In February and March, 1771, the House of Commons ordered eight printers to attend at
the bar on a charge of breach of privilege, in publishing reports of debates. One of the eight,
Miller of the Evening Post, when the messenger of the House tried to arrest him, gave the man
himself into custody on a charge of assault. The messenger was brought before Lord Mayor Crosby
and Aldermen Wilkes and Oliver, and a warrant was made out for his commitment. Bail was thereupon
offered and accepted for his appearance at the next sessions. The Lord Mayor and Oliver were
sent to the Tower by the House. Wilkes was ordered to appear on April 8; but the Ministry,
not daring to face his appearance, adjourned the House till the 9th. A committee was appointed
by ballot to inquire into the late obstructions to the execution of the orders of the House.
It recommended the consideration of the expediency of the House ordering that Miller should
be taken into custody. The report, when read, was received with a roar of laughter. Nothing
was done. Such was, to quote the words of Burke in the Annual Register (xiv. 70), 'the miserable
result of all the pretended vigour of the Ministry.' See Parl. Hist. xvii. 58, 186.

[445] Lord Cornwallis's army surrendered at York Town, five days before Sir Henry Clinton's
fleet and army arrived off the Chesapeak. Ann. Reg. xxiv. 136.

[446] Johnson wrote on March 30:--'The men have got in whom I have endeavoured to keep out;
but I hope they will do better than their predecessors; it will not be easy to do worse.' Croker's
Boswell, p. 706.

[447] This note was in answer to one which accompanied one of the earliest pamphlets on the
subject of Chatterton's forgery, entitled Cursory Observations on the Poems attributed to Thomas
Rowley, &c. Mr. Thomas Warton's very able Inquiry appeared about three months afterwards; and
Mr. Tyrwhitt's admirable Vindication of his Appendix in the summer of the same hear, left the
believers in this daring imposture nothing but 'the resolution to say again what had been said
before.' MALONE.

[448] Pr. and Med. p. 207. BOSWELL.

[449] He addressed to him an Ode in Latin, entitled Ad Thomam Laurence, medicum doctissimum,
quum filium peregre agentem desiderio nimis tristi prosequeretur. Works, i. 165.

[450] Mr. Holder, in the Strand, Dr. Johnson's apothecary. BOSWELL. 1843, i 366. In The Answers
to Mr. Macaulay's Criticism, prefixed to Croker's Boswell, p. 13, it is suggested that Johnson
wrote either imperetur or imperator. The letter may be translated: 'A fresh chill, a fresh
cough, and a fresh difficulty in breathing call for a fresh letting of blood. Without your
advice, however, I would not submit to the operation. I cannot well come to you, nor need you
come to me. Say yes or no in one word, and leave the rest to Holder and to me. If you say yes,
let the messenger be bidden (imperetur) to bring Holder to me. May 1, 1782. When you have left,
whither shall I turn?'

[452] Soon after the above letter, Dr. Lawrence left London, but not before the palsy had made
so great a progress as to render him unable to write for himself. The folio wing are extracts
from letters addressed by Dr. Johnson to one of his daughters:--

'You will easily believe with what gladness I read that you had heard once again that voice
to which we have all so often delighted to attend. May you often hear it. If we had his mind,
and his tongue, we could spare the rest.

'I am not vigorous, but much better than when dear Dr. Lawrence held my pulse the last time.
Be so kind as to let me know, from one little interval to another, the state of his body. I
am pleased that he remembers me, and hope that it never can be possible for me to forget him.
July 22, 1782.'

'I am much delighted even with the small advances which dear Dr. Lawrence makes towards recovery.
If we could have again but his mind, and his tongue in his mind, and his right hand, we should
not much lament the rest. I should not despair of helping the swelled hand by electricity,
if it were frequently and diligently supplied.

'Let me know from time to time whatever happens; and I hope I need not tell you, how much I
am interested in every change. Aug. 26, 1782.'

'Though the account with which you favoured me in your last letter could not give me the pleasure
that I wished, yet I was glad to receive it; for my affection to my dear friend makes me desirous
of knowing his state, whatever it be. I beg, therefore, that you continue to let me know, from
time to time, all that you observe.

'Many fits of severe illness have, for about three months past, forced my kind physician often
upon my mind. I am now better; and hope gratitude, as well as distress, can be a motive to
remembrance. Bolt-court, Fleet-street, Feb. 4, 1783.' BOSWELL.

[453] Mr. Langton being at this time on duty at Rochester, he is addressed by his military
title. BOSWELL.

[454] Eight days later he recorded:--'I have in ten days written to Aston, Lucy, Hector, Langton,
Boswell; perhaps to all by whom my letters are desired.' Pr. and Med. 209. He had written also
to Mrs. Thrale, but her affection, it should seem from this, he was beginning to doubt.

[455] See ante, p. 84.

[456] See ante, i. 247.

[457] See post, p. 158, note 4.

[458] Johnson has here expressed a sentiment similar to that contained in one of Shenstone's
stanzas, to which, in his life of that poet, he has given high praise:--

     'I prized every hour that went by,
     Beyond all that had pleased me before;
     But now they are gone [past] and I sigh,
     I grieve that I prized them no more.'

J. BOSWELL, JUN.

[459] She was his god-daughter. See post, May 10, 1784.

[460] 'Dr. Johnson gave a very droll account of the children of Mr. Langton, "who," he said,
"might be very good children, if they were let alone; but the father is never easy when he
is not making them do something which they cannot do; they must repeat a fable, or a speech,
or the Hebrew alphabet, and they might as well count twenty for what they know of the matter;
however, the father says half, for he prompts every other word."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i.
73. See ante, p. 20, note 2.

[461] A part of this letter having been torn off, I have, from the evident meaning, supplied
a few words and half-words at the ends and beginnings of lines. BOSWELL.

[462] See vol. ii. p. 459. BOSWELL. She was Hector's widowed sister, and Johnson's first love.
In the previous October, writing of a visit to Birmingham, he said:--'Mrs. Careless took me
under her care, and told me when I had tea enough.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 205.

[463] This letter cannot belong to this year. In it Johnson says of his health, 'at least it
is not worse.' But 1782 found him in very bad health; he passed almost the whole of the year
'in a succession of disorders' (post, p. 156). What he says of friendship renders it almost
certain that the letter was written while he had still Thrale; and him he lost in April, 1781.
Had it been written after June, 1779, but before Thrale's death, the account given of health
would have been even better than it is (ante, iii. 397). It belongs perhaps to the year 1777
or 1778.

[464] 'To a man who has survived all the companions of his youth ... this full-peopled world
is a dismal solitude.' Rambler, No. 69.

[465] See ante, i. 63.

[466] They met on these days in the years 1772, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 81, and 3.

[467] The ministry had resigned on the 20th. Ante, p. 139, note 1.

[468] Thirty-two years earlier he wrote in The Rambler, No. 53:-'In the prospect of poverty
there is nothing but gloom and melancholy; the mind and body suffer together; its miseries
bring no alleviation; it is a state in which every virtue is obscured, and in which no conduct
can avoid reproach.' And again in No. 57:--'The prospect of penury in age is so gloomy and
terrifying, that every man who looks before him must resolve to avoid it; and it must be avoided
generally by the science of sparing.' See ante. 441.

[469] See ante, p. 128.

[470] Hannah More wrote in April of this year (Memoirs, i. 249):--'Poor Johnson is in a bad
state of health. I fear his constitution is broken up.' (Yet in one week he dined out four
times. Piozzi Letters, ii. 237.) At one of these dinners, 'I urged him,' she continues (ib.
p. 251) 'to take a little wine. He replied, "I can't drink a little, child; therefore, I never
touch it. Abstinence is as easy to me as temperance would be difficult." He was very good-humoured
and gay. One of the company happened to say a word about poetry, "Hush, hush," said he, "it
is dangerous to say a word of poetry before her; it is talking of the art of war before Hannibal."'

[471] This book was published in 1781, and, according to Lowndes, reached its seventh edition
by 1787. See ante, i. 214.

[472] The clergyman's letter was dated May 4. Gent. Mag. 1786, p. 93. Johnson is explaining
the reason of his delay in acknowledging it.

[473] What follows appeared in the Morning Chronicle of May 29, 1782:--'A correspondent having
mentioned, in the Morning Chronicle of December 12, the last clause of the following paragraph,
as seeming to favour suicide; we are requested to print the whole passage, that its true meaning
may appear, which is not to recommend suicide but exercise.

'Exercise cannot secure us from that dissolution to which we are decreed: but while the soul
and body continue united, it can make the association pleasing, and give probable hopes that
they shall be disjoined by an easy separation.

[474] The Correspondence may be seen at length in the Gent. Mag. Feb. 1786. BOSWELL. Johnson,
advising Dr. Taylor 'to take as much exercise as he can bear,' says:-'I take the true definition
of exercise to be labour without weariness.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 461.

[475] Here he met Hannah More. 'You cannot imagine,' she writes (Memoirs, i. 261), 'with what
delight he showed me every part of his own college. Dr. Adams had contrived a very pretty piece
of gallantry. We spent the day and evening at his house. This little incident amused us; but,
alas! Johnson looks very ill indeed--spiritless and wan. However, he made an effort to be cheerful.'
Miss Adams wrote on June 14, 1782:--'On Wednesday we had here a delightful blue-stocking party.
Dr. and Mrs. Kennicott and Miss More, Dr. Johnson, Mr. Henderson, &c., dined here. Poor Dr.
Johnson is in very bad health, but he exerted himself as much as he could, and being very fond
of Miss More, he talked a good deal, and every word he says is worth recording. He took great
delight in showing Miss More every part of Pembroke College, and his own rooms, &c., and told
us many things about himself when here. .. June 19, 1782. We dined yesterday for the last time
in the company with Dr. Johnson; he went away to-day. A warm dispute arose; it was about cider
or wine freezing, and all the spirit retreating to the center.' Pemb. Coll. MSS. 14.

[477] See ante, i. 441.

[478] Which I celebrated in the Church of England chapel at Edinburgh, founded by Lord Chief
Baron Smith, of respectable and pious memory. BOSWELL.

[479] See ante, p. 80.

[480] The Reverend Mr. Temple, Vicar of St. Gluvias, Cornwall. BOSWELL. See ante, i. 436, and
ii. 316.

[481] 'He had settled on his eldest son,' says Dr. Rogers (Boswelliana, p. 129), 'the ancestral
estate, with an unencumbered rental of £l,600 a year.' That the rental, whatever it was, was
not unencumbered is shewn by the passage from Johnson's letter, post, p. 155, note 4. Boswell
wrote to Malone in 1791 (Croker's Boswell, p. 828):--'The clear money on which I can reckon
out of my estate is scarcely £900 a year.'

[482] Cowley's Ode to Liberty, Stanza vi.

[483] 'I do beseech all the succeeding heirs of entail,' wrote Boswell in his will, 'to be
kind to the tenants, and not to turn out old possessors to get a little more rent.' Rogers's
Boswelliana, p. 186.

[484] Macleod, the Laird of Rasay. See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 8.

[485] A farm in the Isle of Skye, where Johnson wrote his Latin Ode to Mrs. Thrale. Ib. Sept. 6.

[486] Johnson wrote to Dr. Taylor on Oct. 4:--'Boswel's (sic) father is dead, and Boswel wrote
me word that he would come to London for my advice. [The] advice which I sent him is to stay
at home, and [busy] himself with his own affairs. He has a good es[tate], considerably burthened
by settlements, and he is himself in debt. But if his wife lives, I think he will be prudent.'
Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 462.

[487] Miss Burney wrote in the first week in December:--'Dr. Johnson was in most excellent
good humour and spirits.' She describes later on a brilliant party which he attended at Miss
Monckton's on the 8th, where the people were 'superbly dressed,' and where he was 'environed
with listeners.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 186, and 190. See ante, p. 108, note 4.

[488] See ante,, iii. 337, where Johnson got 'heated' when Boswell maintained this.

[489] See ante, in. 395.

[490] The greatest part of the copy, or manuscript of The Lives of the Poets had been given
by Johnson to Boswell (ante, iv. 36).

[491] Of her twelve children but these three were living. She was forty-one years old.

[492] 'The family,' writes Dr. Burney, 'lived in the library, which used to be the parlour.
There they breakfasted. Over the bookcases were hung Sir Joshua's portraits of Mr. Thrale's
friends--Baretti, Burke, Burney, Chambers, Garrick, Goldsmith, Johnson, Murphy, Reynolds, Lord
Sandys, Lord Westcote, and in the same picture Mrs. Thrale and her eldest daughter.' Mr. Thrale's
portrait was also there. Dr. Burney's Memoirs, ii. 80, and Prior's Malone, p. 259.

[493] Pr. and Med. p. 214. BOSWELL.

[494] Boswell omits a line that follows this prayer:--'O Lord, so far as, &c.,--Thrale.' This
means, I think, 'so far as it might be lawful, I prayed for Thrale.' The following day Johnson
entered:--'I was called early. I packed up my bundles, and used the foregoing prayer with my
morning devotions, somewhat, I think, enlarged. Being earlier than the family, I read St. Paul's
farewell in the Acts [xx. 17-end], and then read fortuitously in the gospels, which was my
parting use of the library.'

[495] Johnson, no doubt, was leaving Streatham because Mrs. Thrale was leaving it. 'Streatham,'
wrote Miss Burney, on Aug. 12 of this year, 'my other home, and the place where I have long
thought my residence dependent only on my own pleasure, is already let for three years to Lord
Shelburne.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii.151. Johnson was not yet leaving the Thrale family, for
he joined them at Brighton, and he was living with them the following spring in Argyll-street.
Nevertheless, if, as all Mrs. Thrale's friends strongly held, her second marriage was blameworthy,
Boswell's remark admits of defence. Miss Burney in her diary and letters keeps the secret which
Mrs. Thrale had confided to her of her attachment to Mr. Piozzi; but in the Memoirs of Dr.
Burney, which, as Mme. D'Arblay, she wrote long afterwards, she leaves little doubt that Streatham
was given up as a step towards the second marriage. In 1782, on a visit there, she found that
her father 'and all others--Dr. Johnson not excepted--were cast into the same gulf of general
neglect. As Mrs. Thrale became more and more dissatisfied with her own situation, and impatient
for its relief, she slighted Johnson's counsel, and avoided his society.' Mme. D'Arblay describes
a striking scene in which her father, utterly puzzled by 'sad and altered Streatham,' left
it one day with tears in his eyes. Another day, Johnson accompanied her to London. 'His look
was stern, though dejected, but when his eye, which, however shortsighted, was quick to mental
perception, saw how ill at ease she appeared, all sternness subsided into an undisguised expression
of the strongest emotion, while, with a shaking hand and pointing finger, he directed her looks
to the mansion from which they were driving; and when they faced it from the coach-window,
as they turned into Streatham Common, tremulously exclaimed, "That house ...is lost to me...
for ever."' Johnson's letter to Langton of March 20, 1782 (ante, p. 145), in which he says
that he was 'musing in his chamber at Mrs. Thrale's,' shews that so early as that date he foresaw
that a change was coming. Boswell's statement that 'Mrs. Thrale became less assiduous to please
Johnson,' might have been far more strongly worded. See Dr. Burney's Memoirs, ii. 243-253.
Lord Shelburne, who as Prime Minister was negotiating peace with the United States, France,
and Spain, hired Mrs. Thrale's house 'in order to be constantly near London.' Fitzmaurice's
Shelburne, iii. 242.

[496] Mr. Croker quotes the following from the Rose MSS.:--'Oct. 6, Die Dominica, 1782. Pransus
sum Streathamiae agninum crus coctum cum herbis (spinach) comminutis, farcimen farinaceum cum
uvis passis, lumbos bovillos, et pullum gallinae: Turcicae; et post carnes missas, ficus, uvas,
non admodum maturas, ita voluit anni intemperies, cum malis Persicis, iis tamen duris. Non
laetus accubui, cibum modicè sumpsi, ne intemperantiâ ad extremum peccaretur. Si recte memini,
in mentem venerunt epulae in exequiis Hadoni celebratae. Streathamiam quando revisam?'

[497] 'Mr. Metcalfe is much with Dr. Johnson, but seems to have taken an unaccountable dislike
to Mrs. Thrale, to whom he never speaks.... He is a shrewd, sensible, keen, and very clever
man.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 172, 174. He, Burke, and Malone were Sir Joshua's executors.
Northcote's Reynolds, ii. 293.

[498] Boswell should have shown, for he must have known it, that Johnson was Mrs. Thrale's
guest at Brighton. Miss Burney was also of the party. Her account of him is a melancholy one:--'Oct.
28. Dr. Johnson accompanied us to a ball, to the universal amazement of all who saw him there;
but he said he had found it so dull being quite alone the preceding evening, that he determined
upon going with us; "for," said he, "it cannot be worse than being alone."' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, ii. 161. 'Oct. 29. Mr. Pepys joined Dr. Johnson, with whom he entered into an argument,
in which he was so roughly confuted, and so severely ridiculed, that he was hurt and piqued
beyond all power of disguise, and, in the midst of the discourse, suddenly turned from him,
and, wishing Mrs. Thrale goodnight, very abruptly withdrew. Dr. Johnson was certainly right
with respect to the argument and to reason; but his opposition was so warm, and his wit so
satirical and exulting, that I was really quite grieved to see how unamiable he appeared, and
how greatly he made himself dreaded by all, and by many abhorred.' Ib. p. 163. 'Oct. 30. In
the evening we all went to Mrs. Hatsel's. Dr. Johnson was not invited.' Ib. p. 165. 'Oct. 31.
A note came to invite us all, except Dr. Johnson, to Lady Rothes's.' Ib. p. 168. 'Nov. 2. We
went to Lady Shelley's. Dr. Johnson again excepted in the invitation. He is almost constantly
omitted, either from too much respect or too much fear. I am sorry for it, as he hates being
alone.' Ib. p. 160. 'Nov. 7. Mr. Metcalfe called upon Dr. Johnson, and took him out an airing.
Mr. Hamilton is gone, and Mr. Metcalfe is now the only person out of this house that voluntarily
communicates with the Doctor. He has been in a terrible severe humour of late, and has really
frightened all the people, till they almost ran from him. To me only I think he is now kind,
for Mrs. Thrale fares worse than anybody.' Ib. p. 177.

[499] '"Dr. Johnson has asked me," said Mr. Metcalfe, "to go with him to Chichester, to see
the cathedral, and I told him I would certainly go if he pleased; but why I cannot imagine,
for how shall a blind man see a cathedral?" "I believe," quoth I [i.e. Miss Burney] "his blindness
is as much the effect of absence as of infirmity, for he sees wonderfully at times."' Ib. p.
174. For Johnson's eyesight, see ante, i. 41.

[500] The second letter is dated the 28th. Johnson says:--'I have looked often,' &c.; but he
does not say 'he has been much informed,' but only 'informed.' Both letters are in the Gent.
Mag. 1784, p. 893.

[501] The reference is to Rawlinson's MS. collections for a continuation of Wood's Athenae
(Macray's Annals of the Bodleian, p. 181).

[502] Jortin's sermons are described by Johnson as 'very elegant.' Ante, in. 248. He and Thirlby
are mentioned by him in the Life of Pope. Works, viii. 254.

[503] Markland was born 1693, died 1776. His notes on some of Euripides' Plays were published
at the expense of Dr. Heberden. Markland had previously destroyed a great many other notes;
writing in 1764 he said:--'Probably it will be a long time (if ever) before this sort of learning
will revive in England; in which it is easy to foresee that there must be a disturbance in
a few years, and all public disorders are enemies to this sort of literature.' Gent. Mag. 1778,
P. 3l0. 'I remember,' writes Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 252), 'when lamentation was made of the
neglect shown to Jeremiah Markland, a great philologist, as some one ventured to call him:
"He is a scholar undoubtedly, Sir," replied Dr. Johnson, "but remember that he would run from
the world, and that it is not the world's business to run after him. I hate a fellow whom pride,
or cowardice, or laziness drives into a corner, and [who] does nothing when he is there but
sit and growl; let him come out as I do, and bark"' A brief account of him is given in the
Ann. Reg. xix. 45.

[504] Nichols published in 1784 a brief account of Thirlby, nearly half of it being written
by Johnson. Thirlby was born in 1692 and died in 1753. 'His versatility led him to try the
round of what are called the learned professions.' His life was marred by drink and insolence.'
His mind seems to have been tumultuous and desultory, and he was glad to catch any employment
that might produce attention without anxiety; such employment, as Dr. Battie has observed,
is necessary for madmen.' Gent. Mag. 1784, pp. 260, 893.

[505] He was attacked, says Northcote (Life of Reynolds, ii. 131), 'by a slight paralytic affection,
after an almost uninterrupted course of good health for many years.' Miss Burney wrote on Dec.
28 to one of her sisters:--'How can you wish any wishes [matrimonial wishes] about Sir Joshua
and me? A man who has had two shakes of the palsy!' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 218.

[506] Dr. Patten in Sept. 1781 (Croker's Boswell, p. 699) informed Johnson of Wilson's intended
dedication. Johnson, in his reply, said:--'What will the world do but look on and laugh when
one scholar dedicates to another?'

[507] On the same day he wrote to Dr. Taylor:-'This, my dear Sir, is the last day of a very
sickly and melancholy year. Join your prayers with mine, that the next may be more happy to
us both. I hope the happiness which I have not found in this world will by infinite mercy be
granted in another.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 462.

[508] 'Jan. 4, 1783. Dr. Johnson came so very late that we had all given him up; he was very
ill, and only from an extreme of kindness did he come at all. When I went up to him to tell
how sorry I was to find him so unwell, "Ah," he cried, taking my hand and kissing it, "who
shall ail anything when Cecilia is so near? Yet you do not think how poorly I am."

All dinner time he hardly opened his mouth but to repeat to me:--"Ah! you little know how ill
I am." He was excessively kind to me in spite of all his pain.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii.
228. Cecilia was the name of her second novel (post, May 26, 1783). On Jan. 10 he thus ended
a letter to Mr. Nichols:--'Now I will put you in a way of shewing me more kindness. I have
been confined by ilness (sic) a long time, and sickness and solitude make tedious evenings.
Come sometimes and see, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

MS. in the British Museum.

[509] 'Dr. Johnson found here [at Auchinleck] Baxter's Anacreon, which he told me he had long
inquired for in vain, and began to suspect there was no such book.' Boswell's Hebrides, Nov.2.
See post, under Sept. 29, 1783.

[510] 'The delight which men have in popularity, fame, honour, submission, and subjection of
other men's minds, wills, or affections, although these things may be desired for other ends,
seemeth to be a thing in itself, without contemplation of consequence, grateful and agreeable
to the nature of man.' Bacon's Nat. Hist. Exper. No. 1000. See ante, ii. 178.

[511] In a letter to Dr. Taylor on Jan. 21 of this year, he attacked the scheme of equal representation.'
Pitt, on May 7, 1782, made his first reform motion. Johnson thus ended his letter:--'If the
scheme were more reasonable, this is not a time for innovation. I am afraid of a civil war.
The business of every wise man seems to be now to keep his ground.' Notes and Queries, 6th
S. v. 481.

[512] See ante, i. 429, post, 170, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 30.

[513] The year after this conversation the General Election of 1784 was held, which followed
on the overthrow of the Coalition Ministry and the formation of the Pitt Ministry in December,
1783. The 'King's friends' were in a minority of one in the last great division in the old
Parliament; in the motion on the Address in the new Parliament they had a majority of 168.
Parl. Hist. xxiv. 744, 843. Miss Burney, writing in Nov. 1788, when the King was mad, says
that one of his physicians 'moved me even to tears by telling me that none of their own lives
would be safe if the King did not recover, so prodigiously high ran the tide of affection and
loyalty. All the physicians received threatening letters daily, to answer for the safety of
their monarch with their lives! Sir G. Baker had already been stopped in his carriage by the
mob, to give an account of the King; and when he said it was a bad one, they had furiously
exclaimed, "The more shame for you."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, iv. 336. Describing in 1789 a
Royal tour in the West of England, she writes of 'the crowds, the rejoicings, the hallooing
and singing, and garlanding and decorating of all the inhabitants of this old city [Exeter],
and of all the country through which we passed.' Ib. v. 48.

[514] Miss Palmer, Sir Joshua's niece, 'heard Dr. Johnson repeat these verses with the tears
falling over his cheek.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 417.

[515] Gibbon remarked that 'Mr. Fox was certainly very shy of saying anything in Johnson's
presence.' Ante, iii. 267. See post, under June 9, 1784, where Johnson said 'Fox is my friend.'

[516] Mr. Greville (Journal, ed. 1874, ii. 316) records the following on the authority of Lord
Holland:--'Johnson liked Fox because he defended his pension, and said it was only to blame
in not being large enough. "Fox," he said, is a liberal man; he would always be aut Caesar
aut nullus; whenever I have seen him he has been nullus. Lord Holland said Fox made it a rule
never to talk in Johnson's presence, because he knew all his conversations were recorded for
publication, and he did not choose to figure in them.' Fox could not have known what was not
the fact. When Boswell was by, he had reason for his silence; but otherwise he might have spoken
out. 'Mr. Fox,' writes Mackintosh (Life, i. 322) 'united, in a most remarkable degree, the
seemingly repugnant characters of the mildest of men and the most vehement of orators. In private
life he was so averse from parade and dogmatism as to be somewhat inactive in conversation.'
Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 283) tells how Fox spent a day with him at Lausanne:--'Perhaps it never
can happen again, that I should enjoy him as I did that day, alone from ten in the morning
till ten at night. Our conversation never flagged a moment.' 'In London mixed society,' said
Rogers (Table-Talk, p. 74), 'Fox conversed little; but at his own house in the country, with
his intimate friends, he would talk on for ever, with all the openness and simplicity of a child.'

[517] Sec ante, ii. 450.

[518] Most likely 'Old Mr. Sheridan.'

[519] See ante, ii. 166.

[520] Were I to insert all the stories which have been told of contests boldly maintained with
him, imaginary victories obtained over him, of reducing him to silence, and of making him own
that his antagonist had the better of him in argument, my volumes would swell to an immoderate
size. One instance, I find, has circulated both in conversation and in print; that when he
would not allow the Scotch writers to have merit, the late Dr. Rose, of Chiswick, asserted,
that he could name one Scotch writer, whom Dr. Johnson himself would allow to have written
better than any man of the age; and upon Johnson's asking who it was, answered, 'Lord Bute,
when he signed the warrant for your pension.' Upon which Johnson, struck with the repartee,
acknowledged that this was true. When I mentioned it to Johnson, 'Sir, (said he,) if Rose said
this, I never heard it.' BOSWELL.

[521] This reflection was very natural in a man of a good heart, who was not conscious of any
ill-will to mankind, though the sharp sayings which were sometimes produced by his discrimination
and vivacity, which he perhaps did not recollect, were, I am afraid, too often remembered with
resentment. BOSWELL. When, three months later on, he was struck with palsy, he wrote to Mrs.
Thrale:--'I have in this still scene of life great comfort in reflecting that I have given
very few reason to hate me. I hope scarcely any man has known me closely but for his benefit,
or cursorily but to his innocent entertainment. Tell me, you that know me best, whether this
be true, that according to your answer I may continue my practice, or try to mend it.' Piozzi
Letters, ii. 287. See post, May 19, 1784. Passages such as the two following might have shewn
him why he had enemies. 'For roughness, it is a needless cause of discontent; severity breedeth
fear, but roughness breedeth hate.' Bacon's Essays, No. xi. ''Tis possible that men may be
as oppressive by their parts as their power.' The Government of the Tongue, sect. vii. See
ante, i. 388, note 2. Stockdale records (Memoirs, ii. 191) that he heard a Scotch lady, after
quoting this definition, say to Johnson, 'I can assure you that in Scotland we give oats to
our horses as well as you do to yours in England.' He replied:--'I am very glad, Madam, to
find that you treat your horses as well as you treat yourselves.'

[523] Sir Joshua Reynolds wrote:--'The prejudices he had to countries did not extend to individuals.
The chief prejudice in which he indulged himself was against Scotland, though he had the most
cordial friendship with individuals. This he used to vindicate as a duty. ... Against the Irish
he entertained no prejudice; he thought they united themselves very well with us; but the Scotch,
when in England, united and made a party by employing only Scotch servants and Scotch tradesmen.
He held it right for Englishmen to oppose a party against them.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 460.
See ante, ii. 242, 306, and Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 20.

[524] Ante, ii. 300.

[525] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 85) says that 'Dr. Johnson, commonly spending the middle of the
week at our house, kept his numerous family in Fleet-street upon a settled allowance; but returned
to them every Saturday to give them three good dinners and his company, before he came back
to us on the Monday night.'

[526] Lord North's Ministry lasted from 1770, to March, 1782. It was followed by the Rockingham
Ministry, and the Shelburne Ministry, which in its turn was at this very time giving way to
the Coalition Ministry, to be followed very soon by the Pitt Ministry.

[527] I have, in my Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides [p. 200, Sept. 13], fully expressed my
sentiments upon this subject. The Revolution was necessary, but not a subject for glory; because
it for a long time blasted the generous feelings of Loyalty. And now, when by the benignant
effect of time the present Royal Family are established in our affections, how unwise it is
to revive by celebrations the memory of a shock, which it would surely have been better that
our constitution had not required. BOSWELL. See ante, iii. 3, and iv. 40, note 4.

[528] Johnson reviewed this book in 1756. Ante, i. 309.

[529] Johnson, four months later, wrote to one of Mrs. Thrale's daughters:--'Never think, my
sweet, that you have arithmetick enough; when you have exhausted your master, buy books. ...
A thousand stories which the ignorant tell and believe die away at once when the computist
takes them in his gripe.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 296. See post, April 18, 1783.

[530] See ante, p. 116; also iii. 310, where he bore the same topic impatiently when with Dr.
Scott.

[531] See ante, ii. 357.

[532]

     'See nations, slowly wise and meanly just,
     To buried merit raise the tardy bust.'
     Johnson's Vanity of Human Wishes.

[533] He was perhaps, thinking of Markland. Ante, p. 161, note 3.

[534] 'Dr. Johnson,' writes Mrs. Piozzi, 'was no complainer of ill-usage. I never heard him
even lament the disregard shown to Irene.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 386. See ante, i. 200.

[535] Letter to the People of Scotland against the attempt to diminish the number of the Lords
of Session, 1785. BOSWELL. 'By Mr. Burke's removal from office the King's administration was
deprived of the assistance of that affluent mind, which is so universally rich that, as long
as British literature and British politicks shall endure, it will be said of Edmund Burke,
Regum equabat [sic] opes animis.' p.71.

[536] Georgics, iv. 132.

[537] See ante, iii. 56, note 2.

[538] Very likely Boswell.

[539] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22.

[540] Johnson had said:--'Lord Chesterfield is the proudest man this day existing.' Ante, i. 265.

[541] Lord Shelburne. At this time he was merely holding office till a new Ministry was formed.
On April 5 he was succeeded by the Duke of Portland. His 'coarse manners' were due to a neglected
childhood. In the fragment of his Autobiography he describes 'the domestic brutality and ill-usage
he experienced at home,' in the South of Ireland. 'It cost me,' he continues, 'more to unlearn
the habits, manners, and principles which I then imbibed, than would have served to qualify
me for any rôle whatever through life.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, i. 12, 16.

[542] Bentham, it is reported, said of of him that 'alone of his own time, he was a "Minister
who did not fear the people."' Ib. iii. 572.

[543] Malagrida, a Jesuit, was put to death at Lisbon in 1761, nominally on a charge of heresy,
but in reality on a suspicion of his having sanctioned, as confessor to one of the conspirators,
an attempt to assassinate King Joseph of Portugal. Voltaire, Siècle de Louis XV, ch. xxxviii.
'His name,' writes Wraxall (Memoirs, ed. 1815, i. 67), 'is become proverbial among us to express
duplicity.' It was first applied to Lord Shelburne in a squib attributed to Wilkes, which contained
a vision of a masquerade. The writer, after describing him as masquerading as 'the heir apparent
of Loyola and all the College,' continues:--'A little more of the devil, my Lord, if you please,
about the eyebrows; that's enough, a perfect Malagrida, I protest.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne,
ii. 164. 'George III. habitually spoke of Shelburne as "Malagrida," and the "Jesuit of Berkeley
Square."' Ib. iii. 8. The charge of duplicity was first made against Shelburne on the retirement
of Fox (the first Lord Holland) in 1763. 'It was the tradition of Holland House that Bute justified
the conduct of Shelburne, by telling Fox that it was "a pious fraud." "I can see the fraud
plainly enough," is said to have been Fox's retort, "but where is the piety?"' Ib. i. 226.
Any one who has examined Reynolds's picture of Shelburne, especially 'about the eyebrows,'
at once sees how the name of Jesuit was given.

[544] Beauclerk wrote to Lord Charlemont on Nov. 20, 1773:-'Goldsmith the other day put a paragraph
into the newspapers in praise of Lord Mayor Townshend. [Shelburne supported Townshend in opposition
to Wilkes in the election of the Lord Mayor. Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, ii. 287.] The same night
we happened to sit next to Lord Shelburne at Drury Lane. I mentioned the circumstance of the
paragraph to him; he said to Goldsmith that he hoped that he had mentioned nothing about Malagrida
in it. "Do you know," answered Goldsmith, "that I never could conceive the reason why they
call you Malagrida, for Malagrida was a very good sort of man." You see plainly what he meant
to say, but that happy turn of expression is peculiar to himself. Mr. Walpole says that this
story is a picture of Goldsmith's whole life.' Life of Charlemont, i. 344.

[545] Most likely Reynolds, who introduced Crabbe to Johnson. Crabbe's Works, ed. 1834, ii. 11.

[546]

        'I paint the cot,
     As truth will paint it, and as Bards will not.
     Nor you, ye Poor, of lettered scorn complain,
     To you the smoothest song is smooth in vain;
     O'ercome by labour, and bowed down by time,
     Feel you the barren flattery of a rhyme?
     Can poets soothe you, when you pine for bread,
     By winding myrtles round your ruined shed?
     Can their light tales your weighty griefs o'erpower,
     Or glad with airy mirth the toilsome hour?'

     The Village, book i.

See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 6.

[547] I shall give an instance, marking the original by Roman, and Johnson's substitution in
Italick characters:--

     'In fairer scenes, where peaceful pleasures spring,
     Tityrus, the pride of Mantuan swains, might sing:
     But charmed by him, or smitten with his views,
     Shall modern poets court the Mantuan muse?
     From Truth and Nature shall we widely stray,
     Where Fancy leads, or Virgil led the way?'
     'On Mincio's banks, in Caesar's bounteous reign,
     If Tityrus found the golden age again,
     Must sleepy bards the flattering dream prolong,
     Mechanick echoes of the Mantuan song?
     From Truth and Nature shall we widely stray,
     Where Virgil, not where Fancy, leads the way?.

Here we find Johnson's poetical and critical powers undiminished. I must, however, observe,
that the aids he gave to this poem, as to The Traveller and Deserted Village of Goldsmith,
were so small as by no means to impair the distinguished merit of the authour. BOSWELL.

[548] In the Gent. Mag. 1763, pp. 602, 633, is a review of his Observations on Diseases of
the Army. He says that the register of deaths of military men proves that more than eight times
as many men fall by what was called the gaol fever as by battle. His suggestions are eminently
wise. Lord Seaford, in 1835, told Leslie 'that he remembered dining in company with Dr. Johnson
at Dr. Brocklesby's, when he was a boy of twelve or thirteen. He was impressed with the superiority
of Johnson, and his knocking everybody down in argument.' C.R. Leslie's Recollections, i. 146.

[549] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 28.

[550] See ante, i. 433, and ii. 217, 358.

[551] "In his Life of Swift (Works, viii. 205) he thus speaks of this Journal:-'In the midst
of his power and his politicks, he kept a journal of his visits, his walks, his interviews
with ministers, and quarrels with his servant, and transmitted it to Mrs. Johnson and Mrs.
Dingley, to whom he knew that whatever befell him was interesting, and no accounts could be
too minute. Whether these diurnal trifles were properly exposed to eyes which had never received
any pleasure from the presence of the dean, may be reasonably doubted: they have, however,
some odd attraction: the reader, finding frequent mention of names which he has been used to
consider as important, goes on in hope of information; and, as there is nothing to fatigue
attention, if he is disappointed, he can hardly complain.'"

[552] On his fifty-fifth birthday he recorded:--'I resolve to keep a journal both of employment
and of expenses. To keep accounts.' Pr. and Med. 59. See post, Aug. 25, 1784, where he writes
to Langton:--'I am a little angry at you for not keeping minutes of your own acceptum et expensum,
and think a little time might be spared from Aristophanes for the res familiares.'

[553] This Mr. Chalmers thought was George Steevens. CROKER. D'Israeli (Curiosities of Literature,
ed. 1834, vi. 76) describes Steevens as guilty of 'an unparalleled series of arch deception
and malicious ingenuity.' He gives curious instances of his literary impostures. See ante,
iii. 281, and post, May 15, 1784.

[554] If this be Lord Mansfield, Boswell must use late in the sense of in retirement; for Mansfield
was living when the Life of Johnson was published. He retired in 1788. Johnson in 1772, said
that he had never been in his company (ante, ii. 158). The fact that Mansfield is mentioned
in the previous paragraph adds to the probability that he is meant.

[555] See ante, ii. 318.

[556] In Scotland, Johnson spoke of Mansfield's 'splendid talents.' Boswell's Hebrides, under
Nov. 11.

[557] 'I am not only witty in myself, but the cause that wit is in other men.' 2  Henry IV,
act i. sc. 2.

[558] Knowing as well as I do what precision and elegance of oratory his Lordship can display,
I cannot but suspect that his unfavourable appearance in a social circle, which drew such animadversions
upon him, must be owing to a cold affectation of consequence, from being reserved and stiff.
If it be so, and he might be an agreeable man if he would, we cannot be sorry that he misses
his aim. BOSWELL. Wedderburne, afterwards Lord Loughborough, is mentioned (ante, ii. 374),
and again in Murphy's Life of Johnson, p. 43, as being in company with Johnson and Foote. Boswell
also has before (ante, i. 387) praised the elegance of his oratory. Henry Mackenzie (Life of
John Home, i. 56) says that Wedderburne belonged to a club at the British Coffee-house, of
which Garrick, Smollett, and Dr. Douglas were members.

[559] Boswell informed the people of Scotland in the Letter that he addressed to them in 1785
(p. 29), that 'now that Dr. Johnson is gone to a better world, he (Boswell) bowed the intellectual
knee to Lord Thurlow.' See post, June 22, 1784.

[560] Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 27.

[561]

     'Charged with light summer-rings his fingers sweat,
      Unable to support a gem of weight.'
     DRYDEN. Juvenal, Satires, i. 29.

[562] He had published a series of seventy Essays under the title of The Hypochondriack in
the London Magazine from 1777 to 1783.

[563] Juvenal, Satires, x. 365. The common reading, however, is 'Nullum numen habes,' &c. Mrs.
Piozzi (Anec. p. 218) records this saying, but with a variation. '"For," says Mr. Johnson,
"though I do not quite agree with the proverb, that Nullum numen adest si sit prudentia, yet
we may very well say, that Nullum numen adest, ni sit prudentia."'

[564] It has since appeared. BOSWELL.

[565] Miss Burney mentions meeting Dr. Harington at Bath in 1780. 'It is his son,' she writes,
'who published those very curious remains of his ancestor [Sir John Harington] under the title
Nugae Antiquae which my father and all of us were formerly so fond of.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary,
i. 341.

[566]

     'For though they are but trifles, thou
      Some value didst to them allow.'

      Martin's Catullus, p. 1.

[567]

     --Underneath this rude, uncouth disguise,
     A genius of extensive knowledge lies.'

     FRANCIS. Horace, Satires, i. 3. 33.

[568] He would not have been a troublesome patient anywhere, for, according to Mrs. Piozzi
(Anec. p. 275),'he required less attendance, sick or well, than ever I saw any human creature.'

[569] 'That natural jealousy which makes every man unwilling to allow much excellence in another,
always produces a disposition to believe that the mind grows old with the body; and that he
whom we are now forced to confess superiour is hastening daily to a level with ourselves.'
Johnson's Works, vii. 212.

[570] With the following elucidation of the saying-Quos Deus (it should rather be-Quem Jupiter)
vult perdere, prius dementat-Mr. Boswell was furnished by Mr. Pitts:--'Perhaps no scrap of
Latin whatever has been more quoted than this. It occasionally falls even from those who are
scrupulous even to pedantry in their Latinity, and will not admit a word into their compositions,
which has not the sanction of the first age. The word demento is of no authority, either as
a verb active or neuter.--After a long search for the purpose of deciding a bet, some gentlemen
of Cambridge found it among the fragments of Euripides, in what edition I do not recollect,
where it is given as a translation of a Greek Iambick: [Greek: Ou Theos thelei apolesoi' apophreuai.]

'The above scrap was found in the hand-writing of a suicide of fashion, Sir D. O., some years
ago, lying on the table of the room where he had destroyed himself. The suicide was a man of
classical acquirements: he left no other paper behind him.'

Another of these proverbial sayings,

     Incidit in Scyllam, cupiens vitare Charybdim,

I, in a note on a passage in The Merchant of Venice [act iii. sc. 5], traced to its source.
It occurs (with a slight variation) in the Alexandreis of Philip Gualtier (a poet of the thirteenth
century), which was printed at Lyons in 1558. Darius is the person addressed:--

     --Quò tendis inertem,
     Rex periture, fugam? nescis, heu! perdite, nescis
     Quern fugias: hostes incurris dum fugis hostem;
     Incidis in Scyllam, cupiens vitare Charybdim.

A line not less frequently quoted was suggested for enquiry in a note on The Rape of Lucrece:--

Solamen miseris socios habuisse doloris--:

But the author of this verse has not, I believe, been discovered. MALONE. The 'Greek lambick'
in the above note is not Greek. To a learned friend I owe the following note. 'The Quem Jupiter
vult perdere, &c., is said to be a translation of a fragment of Euripides by Joshua Barnes.
There is, I believe, no such fragment at all. In Barnes's Euripides, Cantab. 1694, fol. p.
515, is a fragment of Euripides with a note which may explain the muddle of Boswell's correspondent:--

"[Greek: otau de daimonn handri porsunae kaka ton noun heblapse proton,]"

on which Barnes writes:--"Tale quid in Franciados nostrae [probably his uncompleted poem on
Edward III.] l. 3. Certe ille deorum Arbiter ultricem cum vult extendere dextram Dementat prius."'
See ante, ii. 445, note 1. Sir D. O. is, perhaps, Sir D'Anvers Osborne, whose death is recorded
in the Gent. Mag. 1753, p. 591. 'Sir D'Anvers Osborne, Bart., Governor of New York, soon after
his arrival there; in his garden.' Solamen miseris, &c., is imitated by Swift in his Verses
on Stella's Birthday, 1726-7:--

     'The only comfort they propose,
     To have companions in their woes.'

Swift's Works, ed. 1803, xi. 22. The note on Lucrece was, I conjecture, on line 1111:--

'Grief best is pleased with grief's society.'

[571]

      'FAUSTUS--
     "Tu quoque, ut hîc video, non es ignarus amorum."
       'FORTUNATUS--
     "Id commune malum; semel insanivimus omnes."'

Baptistae Mantuani Carmelitae Adolescentia, seu Bucolica. Ecloga I, published in 1498. 'Scaliger,'
says Johnson (Works, viii. 391), 'complained that Mantuan's Bucolicks were received into schools,
and taught as classical. ... He was read, at least in some of the inferiour schools of this
kingdom, to the beginning of the present [eighteenth] century.'

[572] See ante, i. 368.

[573] See ante, i. 396. Boswell had himself told Johnson of some of them, at least in writing.
Johnson read in manuscript his Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides. 42, note 2, and iii. 324.

[576] Johnson, after stating that some of Milton's manuscripts prove that 'in the early part
of his life he wrote with much care,' continues:--'Such reliques show how excellence is acquired;
what we hope ever to do with ease, we must learn first to do with diligence.' Works, vii. 119.
Lord Chesterfield (Letters, iii. 146) had made the same rule as Johnson:--'I was,' he writes,
'early convinced of the importance and powers of eloquence; and from that moment I applied
myself to it. I resolved not to utter one word even in common conversation that should not
be the most expressive and the most elegant that the language could supply me with for that
purpose; by which means I have acquired such a certain degree of habitual eloquence, that I
must now really take some pains if I would express myself very inelegantly.'

[577] 'Dr. Johnson,' wrote Malone in 1783, 'is as correct and elegant in his common conversation
as in his writings. He never seems to study either for thoughts or words. When first introduced
I was very young; yet he was as accurate in his conversation as if he had been talking to the
first scholar in England.' Prior's Malone, p. 92. See post, under Aug. 29, 1783.

[578] See ante, iii. 216.

[579] See ante, ii. 323.

[580] The justness of this remark is confirmed by the following story, for which I am indebted
to Lord Eliot:--A country parson, who was remarkable for quoting scraps of Latin in his sermons,
having died, one of his parishioners was asked how he liked his successor. 'He is a very good
preacher,' was his answer, 'but no latiner.' BOSWELL. For the original of Lord Eliot's story
see Twells's Life of Dr. E. Pocock, ed. 1816, p. 94. Reynolds said that 'Johnson always practised
on every occasion the rule of speaking his best, whether the person to whom he addressed himself
was or was not capable of comprehending him. "If," says he, "I am understood, my labour is
not lost. If it is above their comprehension, there is some gratification, though it is the
admiration of ignorance;" and he said those were the most sincere admirers; and quoted Baxter,
who made a rule never to preach a sermon without saying something which he knew was beyond
the comprehension of his audience, in order to inspire their admiration.' Taylor's Reynolds,
ii. 456. Addison, in The Spectator, No. 221, tells of a preacher in a country town who outshone
a more ignorant rival, by quoting every now and then a Latin sentence from one of the Fathers.
'The other finding his congregation mouldering every Sunday, and hearing at length what was
the occasion of it, resolved to give his parish a little Latin in his turn; but being unacquainted
with any of the Fathers, he digested into his sermons the whole book of Quae Genus, adding,
however, such explications to it as he thought might be for the benefit of his people. He afterwards
entered upon As in praesenti, which he converted in the same manner to the use of his parishioners.
This in a very little time thickened his audience, filled his church, and routed his antagonist.'

[581] See ante, ii.

[583] Dr. J. H. Burton says of Hume (Life, ii. 31):--'No Scotsman could write a book of respectable
talent without calling forth his loud and warm eulogiums. Wilkie was to be the Homer, Blacklock
the Pindar, and Home the Shakespeare or something still greater of his country.' See ante,
ii. 121, 296, 306.

[584] The Present State of Music in France and Italy, I vol. 1771, and The Present State of
Music in Germany, &c., 2 vols. 1773. Johnson must have skipped widely in reading these volumes,
for though Dr. Burney describes his travels, yet he writes chiefly of music.

[585] Boswell's son James says that he heard from his father, that the passage which excited
this strong emotion was the following:--

     'Tis night, and the landscape is lovely no more:
       I mourn, but, ye woodlands, I mourn not for you;
     For morn is approaching, your charms to restore,
       Perfumed with fresh fragrance, and glittering with dew;
     Nor yet for the ravage of winter I mourn;
       Kind Nature the embryo blossom will save:
     But when shall spring visit the mouldering urn?
       O when shall it dawn on the night of the grave?'

[586] Horace Walpole (Letters, vii. 338) mentions this book at some length. On March 13, 1780,
he wrote:--'Yesterday was published an octavo, pretending to contain the correspondence of
Hackman and Miss Ray that he murdered.' See ante, iii. 383.

[587] Hawkins (Life, p. 547), recording how Johnson used to meet Psalmanazar at an ale-house,
says that Johnson one day 'remarked on the human mind, that it had a necessary tendency to
improvement, and that it would frequently anticipate instruction. "Sir," said a stranger that
overheard him, "that I deny; I am a tailor, and have had many apprentices, but never one that
could make a coat till I had taken great pains in teaching him."' See ante, iii. 443. Robert
Hall was influenced in his studies by 'his intimate association in mere childhood with a tailor,
one of his father's congregation, who was an acute metaphysician.' Hall's Works, vi. 5.

[588] Johnson had never been in Grub-street. Ante, i. 296, note 2.

[589] The Honourable Horace Walpole, late Earl of Orford, thus bears testimony to this gentleman's
merit as a writer:--'Mr. Chambers's Treatise on Civil Architecture is the most sensible book,
and the most exempt from prejudices, that ever was written on that science.'--Preface to Anecdotes
of Painting in England. BOSWELL. Chambers was the architect of Somerset House. See ante, p.
60, note 7.

[590] The introductory lines are these:--'It is difficult to avoid praising too little or too
much. The boundless panegyricks which have been lavished upon the Chinese learning, policy,
and arts, shew with what power novelty attracts regard, and how naturally esteem swells into
admiration. I am far from desiring to be numbered among the exaggerators of Chinese excellence.
I consider them as great, or wise, only in comparison with the nations that surround them;
and have no intention to place them in competition either with the antients or with the moderns
of this part of the world; yet they must be allowed to claim our notice as a distinct and very
singular race of men: as the inhabitants of a region divided by its situation from all civilized
countries, who have formed their own manners, and invented their own arts, without the assistance
of example.' BOSWELL.

[591] The last execution at Tyburn was on Nov. 7, 1783, when one man was hanged. The first
at Newgate was on the following Dec. 9, when ten were hanged. Gent. Mag. 1783, pp. 974, 1060.

[592] We may compare with this 'loose talk' Johnson's real opinion, as set forth in The Rambler,
No. 114, entitled:--The necessity of proportioning punishments to crimes. He should have heard,
he said, 'the exhortation spoken by the bell-man from the wall of St. Sepulchre's church-yard;
but the noise of the officers and the mob was so great, and the silly curiosity of people climbing
into the cart to take leave of the criminals made such a confused noise that I could not hear
them. They are as follow: "All good people pray heartily to God for these poor sinners, who
now are going to their deaths; for whom this great bell doth toll. You that are condemned to
die, repent with lamentable tears.... Lord have mercy upon you! Christ have mercy upon you!"
which last words the bell-man repeats three times. All the way up Holborn the crowd was so
great, as at every twenty or thirty yards to obstruct the passage; and wine, notwithstanding
a late good order against that practice, was brought the malefactors, who drank greedily of
it. After this the three thoughtless young men, who at first seemed not enough concerned, grew
most shamefully daring and wanton. They swore, laughed, and talked obscenely. At the place
of execution the scene grew still more shocking; and the clergyman who attended was more the
subject of ridicule than of their serious attention. The psalm was sung amidst the curses and
quarrelling of hundreds of the most abandoned and profligate of mankind. As soon as the poor
creatures were half-dead, I was much surprised to see the populace fall to haling and pulling
the carcases with so much earnestness as to occasion several warm rencounters and broken heads.
These, I was told, were the friends of the persons executed, or such as for the sake of tumult
chose to appear so; and some persons sent by private surgeons to obtain bodies for dissection.'
The psalm is mentioned in a note on the line in The Dunciad, i. 4l, 'Hence hymning Tyburn's
elegiac lines:'--'It is an ancient English custom,' says Pope, 'for the malefactors to sing
a psalm at their execution at Tyburn.'

[594] The rest of these miscellaneous sayings were first given in the Additions to Dr. Johnson's
Life at the beginning of vol. I of the second edition.

[595] Hume (Auto. p. 6) speaks of Hurd as attacking him 'with all the illiberal petulance,
arrogance, and scurrility which distinguish the Warburtonian school.' 'Hurd,' writes Walpole,
'had acquired a great name by several works of slender merit, was a gentle, plausible man,
affecting a singular decorum that endeared him highly to devout old ladies.' Journal of the
Reign of George III, ii. 50. He is best known to the present generation by his impertinent
notes on Addison's Works. By reprinting them, Mr. Bohn did much to spoil what was otherwise
an excellent edition of that author. See ante, p. 47, note 2.

[596] The Rev. T. Twining, one of Dr. Burney's friends, wrote in 1779:--'You use a form of
reference that I abominate, i.e. the latter, the former. "As long as you have the use of your
tongue and your pen," said Dr. Johnson to Dr. Burney, "never, Sir, be reduced to that shift."'
Recreations and Studies of a Country Clergyman of the XVIIIth Century, p. 72.

[597] 'A shilling was now wanted for some purpose or other, and none of them happened to have
one; I begged that I might lend one. "Ay, do," said the Doctor, "I will borrow of you; authors
are like privateers, always fair game for one another."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 212.

[598] See ante, i. 129, note 3.

[599] See post, June 3, 1784, where he uses almost the same words.

[600] What this period was Boswell seems to leave intentionally vague. Johnson knew Lord Shelburne
at least as early as 1778 (ante, iii. 265). He wrote to Dr. Taylor on July 22, 1782:--'Shelburne
speaks of Burke in private with great malignity.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 462. The company
commonly gathered at his house would have been displeasing to Johnson. Priestley, who lived
with Shelburne seven years, says (Auto. p. 55) that a great part of the company he saw there
was like the French philosophers, unbelievers in Christianity, and even professed atheists:
men 'who had given no proper attention to Christianity, and did not really know what it was.'
Johnson was intimate with Lord Shelburne's brother. Ante, ii. 282, note 3.

[601] Johnson being asked his opinion of this Essay, answered, 'Why, Sir, we shall have the
man come forth again; and as he has proved Falstaff to be no coward, he may prove Iago to be
a very good character.' BOSWELL.

[602] A writer in the European Magazine, xxx. 160, says that Johnson visited Lord Shelburne
at Bowood. At dinner he repeated part of his letter to Lord Chesterfield (ante, i. 261). A
gentleman arrived late. Shelburne, telling him what he had missed, went on:-'I dare say the
Doctor will be kind enough to give it to us again.' 'Indeed, my Lord, I will not. I told the
circumstance first for my own amusement, but I will not be dragged in as story-teller to a
company.' In an argument he used some strong expressions, of which his opponent took no notice,
Next morning 'he went up to the gentleman with great good-nature, and said, "Sir, I have found
out upon reflection that I was both warm and wrong in my argument with you last night; for
the first of which I beg your pardon, and for the second, I thank you for setting me right."'
It is clear that the second of these anecdotes is the same as that told by Mr. Morgann of Johnson
and himself, and that the scene has been wrongly transferred from Wickham to Bowood. The same
writer says that it was between Derrick and Boyce--not Derrick and Smart--that Johnson, in
the story that follows, could not settle the precedency.

[603] See ante, i. 124, 394.

[604] See ante, i. 397.

[605] What the great TWALMLEY was so proud of having invented, was neither more nor less than
a kind of box-iron for smoothing linen. BOSWELL.

[606]

     'Hic manus ob patriam pugnando vulnera passi,
     Quique sacerdotes casti, dum vita manebat,
     Quique pii vates et Phoebo digna locuti,
     Inventas aut qui vitam excoluere per artes.'

     Aeneid, vi. 660.

     'Lo, they who in their country's fight
       sword-wounded bodies bore;
     Lo, priests of holy life and chaste,
       while they in life had part;
     Lo, God-loved poets, men who spake
       things worthy Phoebus' heart,
     And they who bettered life on earth
       by new-found mastery.'

MORRIS. Virgil, Aeneids, vi. 660. The great Twalmley might have justified himself by The Rambler,
No. 9:--'Every man, from the highest to the lowest station, ought to warm his heart and animate
his endeavours with the hopes of being useful to the world, by advancing the art which it is
his lot to exercise; and for that end he must necessarily consider the whole extent of its
application, and the whole weight of its importance.... Every man ought to endeavour at eminence,
not by pulling others down, but by raising himself, and enjoy the pleasure of his own superiority,
whether imaginary or real, without interrupting others in the same felicity.' All this is what
Twalmley did. He adorned an art, he endeavoured at eminence, and he inoffensively enjoyed the
pleasure of his own superiority. He could also have defended himself by the example of Aeneas,
who, introducing himself, said:--

     'Sum pius Aeneas .....
     ... fama super aethera notus.'

Aeneid, i. 378. I fear that Twalmley met with the neglect that so commonly befalls inventors.
In the Gent. Mag. 1783, p. 719, I find in the list of 'B-nk-ts,' Josiah Twamley, the elder,
of Warwick, ironmonger.

[607] 'Sir, Hume is a Tory by chance, as being a Scotchman; but not upon a principle of duty,
for he has no principle. If he is anything, he is a Hobbist.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 30.
Horace Walpole's opinion was very different. 'Are not atheism and bigotry first cousins? Was
not Charles II. an atheist and a bigot? and does Mr. Hume pluck a stone from a church but to
raise an altar to tyranny?' Letters, v. 444. Hume wrote in 1756:--'My views of things are more
conformable to Whig principles; my representations of persons to Tory prejudices.' J.H. Burton's
Hume, ii. 11. Hume's Toryism increased with years. He says in his Autobiography/ (p. xi.) that
all the alterations which he made in the later editions of his History of the Stuarts, 'he
made invariably to the Tory side.' Dr. Burton gives instances of these; Life of Hume, ii. 74.
Hume wrote in 1763 that he was 'too much infected with the plaguy prejudices of Whiggism when
he began the work.' Ib. p. 144. In 1770 he wrote:--'I either soften or expunge many villainous,
seditious Whig strokes which had crept into it.' Ib. p. 434. This growing hatred of Whiggism
was, perhaps, due to pique. John Home, in his notes of Hume's talk in the last weeks of his
life, says: 'He recurred to a subject not unfrequent with him--that is, the design to ruin
him as an author, by the people that were ministers at the first publication of his History,
and called themselves Whigs.' Ib. p. 500. As regards America, Hume was with the Whigs, as Johnson
had perhaps learnt from their common friend, Mr. Strahan. 'He was,' says Dr. Burton, 'far more
tolerant of the sway of individuals over numbers, which he looked upon as the means of preserving
order and civilization, than of the predominance of one territory over another, which he looked
upon as subjugation.' Ib. p. 477. Quite at the beginning of the struggle he foretold that the
Americans would not be subdued, unless they broke in pieces among themselves. Ib. p. 482. He
was not frightened by the prospect of the loss of our supremacy. He wrote to Adam Smith:--'My
notion is that the matter is not so important as is commonly imagined. Our navigation and general
commerce may suffer more than our manufactures.' Ib. p. 484. Johnson's charge against Hume
that he had no principle, is, no doubt, a gross one; yet Hume's advice to a sceptical young
clergyman, who had good hope of preferment, that he should therefore continue in orders, was
unprincipled enough. 'It is,' he wrote, 'putting too great a respect on the vulgar and on their
superstitions to pique one's self on sincerity with regard to them. Did ever one make it a
point of honour to speak truth to children or madmen? If the thing were worthy being treated
gravely, I should tell him that the Pythian oracle, with the approbation of Xenophon, advised
every one to worship the gods--[Greek: nomo poleos]. I wish it were still in my power to be
a hypocrite in this particular. The common duties of society usually require it; and the ecclesiastical
profession only adds a little more to an innocent dissimulation, or rather simulation, without
which it is impossible to pass through the world.' Ib/. p. 187.

[608] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 48) says that Johnson told her that in writing the story of Gelaleddin,
the poor scholar (Idler, No. 75), who thought to fight his way to fame by his learning and
wit, 'he had his own outset into life in his eye.' Gelaleddin describes how 'he was sometimes
admitted to the tables of the viziers, where he exerted his wit and diffused his knowledge;
but he observed that where, by endeavour or accident he had remarkably excelled, he was seldom
invited a second time.' See ante, p. 116.

[609] See ante, p. 115.

[610] Bar. BOSWELL.

[611] Nard. BOSWELL.

[612] Barnard. BOSWELL.

[613] It was reviewed in the Gent. Mag. 1781, p. 282, where it is said to have been written
by Don Gabriel, third son of the King of Spain.

[614] Though 'you was' is very common in the authors of the last century when one person was
addressed, I doubt greatly whether Johnson ever so expressed himself.

[615] See ante, i. 311.

[616] Horace Walpole (Letters v. 85) says, 'Boswell, like Cambridge, has a rage of knowing
anybody that ever was talked of.' Miss Burney records 'an old trick of Mr. Cambridge to his
son George, when listening to a dull story, in saying to the relator "Tell the rest of that
to George."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 274. See ante, ii. 361.

[617] Virgil, Eclogues, i. 47.

[618] 'Mr. Johnson,' writes Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 21), 'was exceedingly disposed to the general
indulgence of children, and was even scrupulously and ceremoniously attentive not to offend
them. He had strongly persuaded himself of the difficulty people always find to erase early
impressions either of kindness or resentment.'

[619] Ante, ii.171, iv.75; also post, May 15, 1784.

[620] Johnson, on May 1, 1780, wrote of the exhibition dinner:--'The apartments were truly
very noble. The pictures, for the sake of a sky-light, are at the top of the house; there we
dined, and I sat over against the Archbishop of York. See how I live when I am not under petticoat
government.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 111. It was Archbishop Markham whom he met; he is mentioned
by Boswell in his Hebrides, post, v. 37. In spite of the 'elaboration of homage' Johnson could
judge freely of an archbishop.

[621] By Lord Perceval, afterwards Earl of Egmont. He carried, writes Horace Walpole (Letters,
ii. 144), 'the Westminster election at the end of my father's ministry, which he amply described
in the history of his own family, a genealogical work called the History of the House of Yvery,
a work which cost him three thousand pounds; and which was so ridiculous, that he has since
tried to suppress all the copies. It concluded with the description of the Westminster election,
in these or some such words:--"And here let us leave this young nobleman struggling for the
dying liberties of his country."'

[622] Five days earlier Johnson made the following entry in his Diary:--'1783, April 5. I took
leave of Mrs. Thrale. I was much moved. I had some expostulations with her. She said that she
was likewise affected. I commended the Thrales with great good-will to God; may my petitions
have been heard.' Hawkins's Life, p. 553. This was not 'a formal taking of leave,' as Hawkins
says. She was going to Bath (Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 264). On May-day he wrote to her on
the death of one of her little girls:--'I loved her, for she was Thrale's and yours, and, by
her dear father's appointment, in some sort mine: I love you all, and therefore cannot without
regret see the phalanx broken, and reflect that you and my other dear girls are deprived of
one that was born your friend. To such friends every one that has them has recourse at last,
when it is discovered and discovered it seldom fails to be, that the fortuitous friendships
of inclination or vanity are at the mercy of a thousand accidents.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 255.
He was sadly thinking how her friendship for him was rapidly passing away.

[623] Johnson modestly ended his account of the tour by saying:--'I cannot but be conscious
that my thoughts on national manners are the thoughts of one who has seen but little.' Works,
ix. 161. See Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 22.

[624] See ib. Oct. 21.

[625] She says that he was 'the genuine author of the first volume. An ingenious physician,'
she continues, 'with the assistance of several others, continued the work until the eighth
volume.' Mrs. Manley's History of her own Life and Times, p. 15--a gross, worthless book. Swift
satirised her in Corinna, a Ballad. Swift's Works (1803), x. 94.

[626] The real authour was I. P. Marana, a Genoese, who died at Paris in 1693. John Dunton
in his Life says, that Mr. William Bradshaw received from Dr. Midgeley forty shillings a sheet
for writing part of the Turkish Spy; but I do not find that he any where mentions Sault as
engaged in that work. MALONE.

[627] See ante, ii. 355, iii. 46, and iv. 139.

[628] This was in June, 1783, and I find in Mr. Windham's private diary (which it seems this
conversation induced him to keep) the following memoranda of Dr. Johnson's advice: 'I have
no great timidity in my own disposition, and am no encourager of it in others. Never be afraid
to think yourself fit for any thing for which your friends think you fit. You will become an
able negotiator--a very pretty rascal. No one in Ireland wears even the mask of incorruption;
no one professes to do for sixpence what he can get a shilling for doing. Set sail, and see
where the winds and the waves will carry you. Every day will improve another. Dies diem docet,
by observing at night where you failed in the day, and by resolving to fail so no more.' CROKER.
The Whigs thought he made 'a very pretty rascal' in a very different way. On his opposition
to Whitbread's bill for establishing parochial schools, Romilly wrote (Life, ii. 2l6), 'that
a man so enlightened as Windham should take the same side (which he has done most earnestly)
would excite great astonishment, if one did not recollect his eager opposition a few months
ago to the abolition of the slave trade.' He was also 'most strenuous in opposition' to Romilly's
bill for repealing the act which made it a capital offence to steal to the amount of forty
shillings in a dwelling-house, Ib. p. 316.

[629] We accordingly carried our scheme into execution, in October, 1792; but whether from
that uniformity which has in modern times, in a great degree, spread through every part of
the Metropolis, or from our want of sufficient exertion, we were disappointed. BOSWELL.

[630] Piozzi's Anecdotes, p. 193. See post, under June 30, 1784.

[631] Northcote (Life of Reynolds, ii. 139-143) says that the picture, which was execrable
beyond belief, was exhibited in an empty room. Lowe, in 1769 (not in 1771 as Northcote says),
gained the gold medal of the Academy for the best historical picture. (Gent. Mag. 1770, p.
587.) Northcote says that the award was not a fair one. He adds that Lowe, being sent to Rome
by the patronage of the Academy, was dissatisfied with the sum allowed him. 'When Sir Joshua
said that he knew from experience that it was sufficient, Lowe pertly answered "that it was
possible for a man to live on guts and garbage."' He died at an obscure lodging in Westminster,
in 1793. There is, wrote Miss Burney, 'a certain poor wretch of a villainous painter, one Mr.
Lowe, whom Dr. Johnson recommends to all the people he thinks can afford to sit for their picture.
Among these he applied to Mr. Crutchley [one of Mr. Thrale's executors]. "But now," said Mr.
Crutchley to me, "I have not a notion of sitting for my picture--for who wants it? I may as
well give the man the money without; but no, they all said that would not do so well, and Dr.
Johnson asked me to give him my picture." "And I assure you, Sir," says he, "I shall put it
in very good company, for I have portraits of some very respectable people in my dining-room."
After all I could say I was obliged to go to the painter's. And I found him in such a condition!
a room all dirt and filth, brats squalling and wrangling... "Oh!" says I, "Mr. Lowe, I beg
your pardon for running away, but I have just recollected another engagement; so I poked three
guineas in his hand, and told him I would come again another time, and then ran out of the
house with all my might."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii.41. A correspondent of the Examiner writing
on May 28, 1873, said that he had met one of Lowe's daughters, 'who recollected,' she told
him, 'when a child, sitting on Dr. Johnson's knee and his making her repeat the Lord's Prayer.'
She was Johnson's god-daughter. By a committee consisting of Milman, Thackeray, Dickens, Carlyle
and others, an annuity fund for her and her sister was raised. Lord Palmerston gave a large
subscription.

[632] See post, May 15, 1783.

[633] See Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 48.

[634] See ante, p. 171.

[635] Quoted by Boswell, ante, iii. 324.

[636] It is suggested to me by an anonymous Annotator on my Work, that the reason why Dr. Johnson
collected the peels of squeezed oranges may be found in the 58th [358th] Letter in Mrs. Piozzi's
Collection, where it appears that he recommended 'dried orange-peel, finely powdered,' as a
medicine. BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 330.

[637] There are two mistakes in this calculation, both perhaps due to Boswell. Eighty-four
should be eighty-eight, and square-yards should be yards square. 'If a wall cost £1000 a mile,
£100 would build 176 yards of wall, which would form a square of 44 yards, and enclose an area
of 1936 square yards; and £200 would build 352 yards of wall, which would form a square of
88 yards, and inclose an area of 7744 square yards. The cost of the wall in the latter case,
as compared with the space inclosed, would therefore be reduced to one half.' Notes and Queries,
1st S. x. 471.

[638] See ante, i. 318.

[639] 'Davies observes, in his account of Ireland, that no Irishman had ever planted an orchard.'
Johnson's Works, ix.7. 'At Fochabars [in the Highlands] there is an orchard, which in Scotland
I had never seen before.' Ib. p. 21.

[640] Miss Burney this year mentions meeting 'Mr. Walker, the lecturer. Though modest in science,
he is vulgar in conversation.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 237. Johnson quotes him, Works, viii.
474.

[641] 'Old Mr. Sheridan' was twelve years younger than Johnson. For his oratory, see ante,
i. 453, and post, April 28 and May 17, 1783.

[642] See ante, i. 358, when Johnson said of Sheridan:--'His voice when strained is unpleasing,
and when low is not always heard.'

[643] See ante, iii. 139.

[644] 'A more magnificent funeral was never seen in London,' wrote Murphy (Life of Garrick,
p. 349). Horace Walpole (Letters, vii. 169), wrote on the day of the funeral:--'I do think
the pomp of Garrick's funeral perfectly ridiculous. It is confounding the immense space between
pleasing talents and national services.' He added, 'at Lord Chatham's interment there were
not half the noble coaches that attended Garrick's.' Ib. p. 171. In his Journal of the Reign
of George III (ii. 333), he says:--'The Court was delighted to see a more noble and splendid
appearance at the interment of a comedian than had waited on the remains of the great Earl
of Chatham.' Bishop Horne (Essays and Thoughts, p. 283) has some lines on 'this grand parade
of woe,' which begin:--

     'Through weeping London's crowded streets,
        As Garrick's funeral passed,
      Contending wits and nobles strove,
        Who should forsake him last.
      Not so the world behaved to him
        Who came that world to save,
      By solitary Joseph borne
        Unheeded to his grave.'

Johnson wrote on April 30, 1782: 'Poor Garrick's funeral expenses are yet unpaid, though the
undertaker is broken.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 239. Garrick was buried on Feb. 1, 1779, and had
left his widow a large fortune. Chatham died in May, 1778.

[645] Boswell had heard Johnson maintain this; ante, ii. 101.

[646] See post, p. 238, note 2.

[647] This duel was fought on April 21, between Mr. Riddell of the Horse-Grenadiers, and Mr.
Cunningham of the Scots Greys. Riddell had the first fire, and shot Cunningham through the
breast. After a pause of two minutes Cunningham returned the fire, and gave Riddell a wound
of which he died next day. Gent. Mag. 1783, p. 362. Boswell's grandfather's grandmother was
a Miss Cunningham. Rogers's Boswelliana, p. 4. I do not know that there was any nearer connection.
In Scotland, I suppose, so much kindred as this makes two men 'near relations.'

[648] 'Unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other.' St. Luke, vi. 29.
Had Miss Burney thought of this text, she might have quoted it with effect against Johnson,
who, criticising her Evelina, said:--'You write Scotch, you say "the one,"--my dear, that's
not English. Never use that phrase again.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 84.

[649] 'Turn not thou away.' St. Matthew, v. 42. At the same time it must be confessed, that
from the prevalent notions of honour, a gentleman who receives a challenge is reduced to a
dreadful alternative. A remarkable instance of this is furnished by a clause in the will of
the late Colonel Thomas, of the Guards, written the night before he fell in a duel, Sept. 3,
1783:--'In the first place, I commit my soul to Almighty GOD, in hopes of his mercy and pardon
for the irreligious step I now (in compliance with the unwarrantable customs of this wicked
world) put myself under the necessity of taking.' BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 179.

[651] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24 and Sept. 20. Dr. Franklin (Memoirs, i. 177) says that
when the assembly at Philadelphia, the majority of which were Quakers, was asked by New England
to supply powder for some garrison, 'they would not grant money to buy powder, because that
was an ingredient of war; but they voted an aid of £3000 to be appropriated for the purchase
of bread, flour, wheat, or other grain.' The Governor interpreted other grain as gunpowder,
without any objection ever being raised.

[652] 'A gentleman falling off his horse brake his neck, which sudden hap gave occasion of
much speech of his former life, and some in this judging world judged the worst. In which respect
a good friend made this good epitaph, remembering that of Saint Augustine, Misericordia Domini
inter pontem et fontem.

     "My friend judge not me,
      Thou seest I judge not thee;
      Betwixt the stirrop and the ground,
      Mercy I askt, mercy I found."'

Camden's Remains, ed. 1870, p. 420.

[653] 'In sure and certain hope of the Resurrection to eternal life.' Prayer-book.

[654] Upon this objection the Reverend Mr. Ralph Churton, Fellow of Brazennose College, Oxford,
has favoured me with the following satisfactory observation:--'The passage in the Burial-service
does not mean the resurrection of the person interred, but the general resurrection; it is
in sure and certain hope of the resurrection; not his resurrection. Where the deceased is really
spoken of, the expression is very different, "as our hope is this our brother doth" [rest in
Christ]; a mode of speech consistent with every thing but absolute certainty that the person
departed doth not rest in Christ, which no one can be assured of, without immediate revelation
from Heaven. In the first of these places also, "eternal life" does not necessarily mean eternity
of bliss, but merely the eternity of the state, whether in happiness or in misery, to ensue
upon the resurrection; which is probably the sense of "the life everlasting," in the Apostles'
Creed. See Wheatly and Bennet on the Common Prayer.' BOSWELL.

[655] Six days earlier the Lord-Advocate Dundas had brought in a bill for the Regulation of
the Government of India. Hastings, he said, should be recalled. His place should be filled
by 'a person of independent fortune, who had not for object the repairing of his estate in
India, that had long been the nursery of ruined and decayed fortunes.' Parl. Hist. xxiii. 757.
Johnson wrote to Dr. Taylor on Nov. 22 of this year:--'I believe corruption and oppression
are in India at an enormous height, but it has never appeared that they were promoted by the
Directors, who, I believe, see themselves defrauded, while the country is plundered; but the
distance puts their officers out of reach.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 482. See ante, p. 66.

[656] See ante, p. 113.

[657] Stockdale (Memoirs, ii. 57) says that, in 1770, the payment to writers in the Critical
Review was two guineas a sheet, but that some of the writers in The Monthly Review received
four guineas a sheet. As these Reviews were octavos, each sheet contained sixteen pages. Lord
Jeffrey says that the writers in the Edinburgh Review were at first paid ten guineas a sheet.
'Not long after the minimum was raised to sixteen guineas, at which it remained during my reign,
though two-thirds of the articles were paid much higher--averaging, I should think, from twenty
to twenty-five guineas a sheet on the whole number.' Cockburn's Jeffrey, i. 136.

[658] See ante, ii. 344.

[659] See ante, iii.32.

[660] See ante, p. 206.

[661] Monday is no doubt put by mistake for Tuesday, which was the 29th. Boswell had spent
a considerable part of Monday the 28th with Johnson (ante, p. 211).

[662]

     'A fugitive from Heaven and prayer,
      I mocked at all religious fear.'
FRANCIS. Horace, Odes, i.34. 1.

[663] He told Boswell (ante, i. 68) that he had been a sort of lax talker against religion
for some years before he went to Oxford, but that there he took up Law's Serious Call and found
it quite an overmatch for him. 'This,' he said, 'was the first occasion of my thinking in earnest
of religion after I became capable of rational enquiry.' During the vacation of 1729 he had
a serious illness (ante, i. 63), which most likely was 'the sickness that brought religion back.'

[664] See ante, i. 93, 164, and post, under Dec. 2, 1784.

[665] Mr. Langton. See ante, ii. 254.

[666] See ante, ii. 249.

[667] Malloch continued to write his name thus, after he came to London. His verses prefixed
to the second edition of Thomson's Winter are so subscribed. MALONE. 'Alias. A Latin word signifying
otherwise; as, Mallet, alias Malloch; that is otherwise Malloch.' The mention of Mallet first
comes in Johnson's own abridgment of his Dictionary. In the earlier unabridged editions the
definition concludes, 'often used in the trials of criminals, whose danger has obliged them
to change their names; as Simpson alias Smith, alias Baker, &c.' For Mallet, see ante, i. 268,
and ii. 159.

[668] Perhaps Scott had this saying of Johnson's in mind when he made Earl Douglas exclaim:--

     'At first in heart it liked me ill,
     When the King praised his clerkly skill.
     Thanks to St. Bothan, son of mine,
     Save Gawain, ne'er could pen a line.'
Marmion, canto vi. 15.

[669] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 10.

[670] Johnson often maintained this diffusion of learning. Thus he wrote:--'The call for books
was not in Milton's age what it is in the present. To read was not then a general amusement;
neither traders, nor often gentlemen, thought themselves disgraced by ignorance. The women
had not then aspired to literature nor was every house supplied with a closet of knowledge.'
Works, vii. 107. He goes on to mention 'that general literature which now pervades the nation
through all its ranks.' Works, p. 108. 'That general knowledge which now circulates in common
talk was in Addison's time rarely to be found. Men not professing learning were not ashamed
of ignorance; and, in the female world, any acquaintance with books was distinguished only
to be censured.' Ib. p.470. 'Of the Essay on Criticism, Pope declared that he did not expect
the sale to be quick, because "not one gentleman in sixty, even of liberal education, could
understand it." The gentlemen, and the education of that time, seem to have been of a lower
character than they are of this.' Ib. viii. 243. See ante, iii. 3, 254. Yet he maintained that
'learning has decreased in England, because learning will not do so much for a man as formerly.'
Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 80.

[671] Malone describes a call on Johnson in the winter of this year:--'I found him in his arm-chair
by the fire-side, before which a few apples were laid. He was reading. I asked him what book
he had got. He said the History of Birmingham. Local histories, I observed, were generally
dull. "It is true, Sir; but this has a peculiar merit with me; for I passed some of my early
years, and married my wife there." [See ante, i. 96.] I supposed the apples were preparing
as medicine. "Why, no, Sir; I believe they are only there because I want something to do. These
are some of the solitary expedients to which we are driven by sickness. I have been confined
this week past; and here you find me roasting apples, and reading the History of Birmingham."'
Prior's Malone, p. 92.

[672] On April 19, he wrote:--'I can apply better to books than I could in some more vigorous
parts of my life--at least than I did; and I have one more reason for reading--that time has,
by taking away my companions, left me less opportunity of conversation.' Croker's Boswell, p. 727.

[673] He told Mr. Windham that he had never read the Odyssey through in the original. Windham's
Diary, p. 17. 'Fox,' said Rogers (Table Talk, p. 92), 'used to read Homer through once every
year. On my asking him, "Which poem had you rather have written, the Iliad or the Odyssey?"
he answered, "I know which I had rather read" (meaning the Odyssey).'

[674] 'Composition is, for the most part, an effort of slow diligence and steady perseverance,
to which the mind is dragged by necessity or resolution, and from which the attention is every
moment starting to more delightful amusements.' Johnson's Works, iv. 145. Of Pope Johnson wrote
(ib. viii. 321):--'To make verses was his first labour, and to mend them was his last. ...
He was one of those few whose labour is their pleasure.' Thomas Carlyle, in 1824, speaking
of writing, says:--'I always recoil from again engaging with it.' Froude's Carlyle, i. 213.
Five years later he wrote:--'Writing is a dreadful labour, yet not so dreadful as idleness.'
Ib. ii. 75. See ante, iii. 19.

[675] See ante, ii. 15.

[676] Miss Burney wrote to Mrs. Thrale in 1780:--'I met at Sir Joshua's young Burke, who is
made much ado about, but I saw not enough of him to know why.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 416.
Mrs. Thrale replied:--'I congratulate myself on being quite of your opinion concerning Burke
the minor, whom I once met and could make nothing of.' Ib. p. 418. Miss Hawkins (Memoirs, i.
304) reports, on Langton's authority, that Burke said:--'How extraordinary it is that I, and
Lord Chatham, and Lord Holland, should each have a son so superior to ourselves.'

[677] Cruikshank, not Cruikshanks (see post, under Sept. 18, 1783, and Sept. 4 1784). He had
been Dr. Hunter's partner; he was not elected (Gent. Mag. 1783, p. 626). Northcote, in quoting
this letter, says that 'Sir Joshua's influence in the Academy was not always answerable to
his desire. "Those who are of some importance everywhere else," he said, "find themselves nobody
when they come to the Academy."' Northcote's Reynolds, ii. 145.

[678] William Hunter, scarcely less famous as a physician than his youngest brother, John Hunter,
as a surgeon.

[679] Let it be remembered by those who accuse Dr. Johnson of illiberality that both were Scotchmen.
BOSWELL.

[680] The following day he dined at Mrs. Garrick's. 'Poor Johnson,' wrote Hannah More (Memoirs,
i. 280), 'exerted himself exceedingly, but he was very ill and looked so dreadfully, that it
quite grieved me. He is more mild and complacent than he used to be. His sickness seems to
have softened his mind, without having at all weakened it. I was struck with the mild radiance
of this setting sun.'

[681] In the winter of 1788-9 Boswell began a canvass of his own county, He also courted Lord
Lonsdale, in the hope of getting one of the seats in his gift, who first fooled him and then
treated him with great brutality, Letters of Boswell, pp. 270, 294, 324.

[682] On April 6, 1780--'a day,' wrote Horace Walpole (Letters, vii. 345), 'that ought for
ever to be a red-lettered day'--Mr. Dunning made this motion. It was carried by 233 to 215.
Parl. Hist. xxi. 340-367.

[683] See ante, i. 355, and ii. 94 for Johnson's appeal to meals as a measure of vexation.

[684] Johnson defines cant as '1. A corrupt dialect used by beggars and vagabonds. 2. A particular
form of speaking peculiar to some certain class or body of men. 3. A whining pretension to
goodness in formal and affected terms. 4. Barbarous jargon. 5. 'Every class of society has
its cant of lamentation.' Ib. No.128. 'Milton's invention required no assistance from the common
cant of poetry.' Ib. No.140. 'We shall secure our language from being overrun with cant, from
being crowded with low terms, the spawn of folly or affectation.' Works, v. II. 'This fugitive
cant, which is always in a state of increase or decay, cannot be regarded as any part of the
durable materials of a language.' Ib. p.45. In a note on I Henry VI, act iii. sc.1, he says:
'To roam is supposed to be derived from the cant of vagabonds, who often pretended a pilgrimage
to Rome.' See ante, iii. 197, for 'modern cant.'

[685] 'Custom,' wrote Sir Joshua, 'or politeness, or courtly manners has authorised such an
eastern hyperbolical style of compliment, that part of Dr. Johnson's character for rudeness
of manners must be put to the account of scrupulous adherence to truth. His obstinate silence,
whilst all the company were in raptures, vying with each other who should pepper highest, was
considered as rudeness or ill-nature.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 458.

[686] 'The shame is to impose words for ideas upon ourselves or others.' Johnson's Works, vi.
64. See ante, p.122, where he says: 'There is a middle state of mind between conviction and
hypocrisy.' Bacon, in his Essay of Truth, says: 'It is not the lie that passeth through the
mind, but the lie that sinketh in and settleth in it, that doth the hurt.'

[687] See ante, p. 204.

[688] 'I dined and lay at Harrison's, where I was received with that old-fashioned breeding
which is at once so honourable and so troublesome.' Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 144. Mr. Pleydell,
in Guy Mannering, ed. 1860, iv. 96, says: 'You'll excuse my old-fashioned importunity. I was
born in a time when a Scotchman was thought inhospitable if he left a guest alone a moment,
except when he slept.'

[689] See ante, ii. 167.

[690] See ante, i. 387.

[691] In Johnson's Works, ed. 1787, xi. 197, it is recorded that Johnson said, 'Sheridan's
writings on elocution were a continual renovation of hope, and an unvaried succession of disappointments.'
According to the Gent. Mag. 1785, p. 288, he continued:--'If we should have a bad harvest this
year, Mr. Sheridan would say:--"It was owing to the neglect of oratory."' See ante, p. 206.

[692] Burke, no doubt, was this 'bottomless Whig.' When Johnson said 'so they all are now,'
he was perhaps thinking of the Coalition Ministry in which Lord North and his friends had places.

[693] No doubt Burke, who was Paymaster of the Forces. He is Boswell's 'eminent friend.' See
ante ii.222, and post, Dec. 24, 1783, and Jan.8, 1784. In these two consecutive paragraphs,
though two people seem to be spoken of, yet only one is in reality.

[694] I believe that Burke himself was present part of the time, and that he was the gentleman
who 'talked of retiring. On May 19 and 21 he had in Parliament defended his action in restoring
to office two clerks, Powell and Bembridge, who had been dismissed by his predecessor, and
he had justified his reforms in the Paymaster's office. 'He awaited,' he said, the 'judgement
of the House. ...If they so far differed in sentiment, he had only to say, Nunc dimittis servum
tuum.' Parl. Hist. xxiii.919.

[695] A copy of Evelina had been placed in the Bodleian. 'Johnson says,' wrote Miss Burney,
'that when he goes to Oxford he will write my name in the books, and my age when I writ them,
and then,' he says, 'the world may know that we So mix our studies, and so joined our fame.
For we shall go down hand in hand to posterity.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i.429. The oldest copy
of Evelina now in the Bodleian is of an edition published after Johnson's death. Miss Burney,
in 1793, married General D'Arblay, a French refugee.

[696] Macaulay maintained that Johnson had a hand in the composition of Cecilia. He quotes
a passage from it, and says:--'We say with confidence, either Sam. Johnson or the Devil.' (Essays,
ed. 1874, iv. 157.) That he is mistaken is shown by Mme. D'Arblay's Diary (ii. 172). 'Ay,'
cried Dr. Johnson, 'some people want to make out some credit to me from the little rogue's
book. I was told by a gentleman this morning that it was a very fine book, if it was all her
own.' "It is all her own," said I, "for me, I am sure, for I never saw one word of it before
it was printed."' On p. 196 she records the following:--'SIR JOSHUA. "Gibbon says he read the
whole five volumes in a day." "'Tis impossible," cried Mr. Burke, "it cost me three days; and
you know I never parted with it from the day I first opened it."' See post, among the imitators
of Johnson's style, under Dec. 6, 1784.

[697] In Mr. Barry's printed analysis, or description of these pictures, he speaks of Johnson's
character in the highest terms. BOSWELL. Barry, in one of his pictures, placed Johnson between
the two beautiful duchesses of Rutland and Devonshire, pointing to their Graces Mrs. Montagu
as an example. He expresses his 'reverence for his consistent, manly, and well-spent life.'
Barry's Works, ii. 339. Johnson, in his turn, praises 'the comprehension of Barry's design.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 256. He was more likely to understand it, as the pictures formed a series,
meant 'to illustrate one great maxim of moral truth, viz. that the obtaining of happiness depends
upon cultivating the human faculties. We begin with man in a savage state full of inconvenience,
imperfection, and misery, and we follow him through several gradations of culture and happiness,
which, after our probationary state here, are finally attended with beatitude or misery.' Barry's
Works, ii. 323. Horace Walpole (Letters, viii. 366) describes Barry's book as one 'which does
not want sense, though full of passion and self, and vulgarisms and vanity.'

[698] Boswell had tried to bring about a third meeting between Johnson and Wilkes. On May 21
he wrote:--'Mr. Boswell's compliments to Mr. Wilkes. He finds that it would not be unpleasant
to Dr. Johnson to dine at Mr. Wilkes's. The thing would be so curiously benignant, it were
a pity it should not take place. Nobody but Mr. Boswell should be asked to meet the doctor.'
An invitation was sent, but the following answer was returned:--'May 24, 1783. Mr. Johnson
returns thanks to Mr. and Miss Wilkes for their kind invitation; but he is engaged for Tuesday
to Sir Joshua Reynolds, and for Wednesday to Mr. Paradise.' Owing to Boswell's return to Scotland,
another day could not be fixed. Almon's Wilkes, iv. 314, 321.

[699] 'If the tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree
falleth, there it shall be.' Ecclesiastes, xi. 3.

[700] 'When a tree is falling, I have seen the labourers, by a trivial jerk with a rope, throw
it upon the spot where they would wish it should lie. Divines, understanding this text too
literally, pretend, by a little interposition in the article of death, to regulate a person's
everlasting happiness. I fancy the allusion will hardly countenance their presumption.' Shenstone's
Works, ed. 1773, ii. 255.

[701] Hazlitt says that 'when old Baxter first went to Kidderminster to preach, he was almost
pelted by the women for maintaining from the pulpit the then fashionable and orthodox doctrine,
that "Hell was paved with infants' skulls.'" Conversations of Northcote, p. 80.

[702] Acts, xvii. 24.

[703] Now the celebrated Mrs. Crouch. BOSWELL.

[704] Mr. Windham was at this time in Dublin, Secretary to the Earl of Northington, then Lord
Lieutenant of Ireland. BOSWELL. See ante, p.200.

[705] Son of Mr. Samuel Paterson. BOSWELL. See ante, iii.90, and post, April 5, 1784.

[706] The late Keeper of the Royal Academy. He died on Jan. 23 of this year. Reynolds wrote
of him:--'He may truly be said in every sense, to have been the father of the present race
of artists.' Northcote's Reynolds ii.137.

[707] Mr. Allen was his landlord and next neighbour in Bolt-court. Ante, iii. 141.

[708] Cowper mentions him in Retirement:--

     'Virtuous and faithful Heberden! whose skill
      Attempts no task it cannot well fulfill,
      Gives melancholy up to nature's care,
      And sends the patient into purer air.'

      Cowper's Poems, ed. 1786, i. 272.

He is mentioned also by Priestley (Auto. ed. 1810, p.66) as one of his chief benefactors. Lord
Eldon, when almost a briefless barrister, consulted him. 'I put my hand into my pocket, meaning
to give him his fee; but he stopped me, saying, "Are you the young gentleman who gained the
prize for the essay at Oxford?" I said I was. "I will take no fee from you." I often consulted
him; but he would never take a fee.' Twiss's Eldon, i. 104.

[709] How much he had physicked himself is shewn by a letter of May 8. 'I took on Thursday,'
he writes, 'two brisk catharticks and a dose of calomel. Little things do me no good. At night
I was much better. Next day cathartick again, and the third day opium for my cough. I lived
without flesh all the three days.' Piozzi Letters, ii.257. He had been bled at least four times
that year and had lost about fifty ounces of blood. Ante, pp.142, 146. On Aug. 3, 1779, he
wrote:--'Of the last fifty days I have taken mercurial physick, I believe, forty.' Notes and
Queries, 6th S. v.461.

[710] An exact reprint of this letter is given by Professor Mayor in Notes and Queries, 6th
S. v.481. The omissions and the repetitions 'betray,' he says, 'the writer's agitation.' The
postscript Boswell had omitted. It is as follows:--'Dr. Brocklesby will be with me to meet
Dr. Heberden, and I shall have previously make (sic) master of the case as well as I can.'

[711] Vol. ii. p.268, of Mrs. Thrale's Collection. BOSWELL. The beginning of the letter is
very touching:--'I am sitting down in no cheerful solitude to write a narrative which would
once have affected you with tenderness and sorrow, but which you will perhaps pass over now
with the careless glance of frigid indifference. For this diminution of regard, however, I
know not whether I ought to blame you, who may have reasons which I cannot know, and I do not
blame myself, who have for a great part of human life done you what good I could, and have
never done you evil.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 268. 'I have loved you,' he continued, 'with virtuous
affection; I have honoured you with sincere esteem. Let not all our endearments be forgotten,
but let me have in this great distress your pity and your prayers. You see I yet turn to you
with my complaints as a settled and unalienable friend; do not, do not drive me from you, for
I have not deserved either neglect or hatred.' Ib. p.271.

[712] On Aug. 20 he wrote:--'I sat to Mrs. Reynolds yesterday for my picture, perhaps the tenth
time, and I sat near three hours with the patience of mortal born to bear; at last she declared
it quite finished, and seems to think it fine. I told her it was Johnson's grimly ghost. It
is to be engraved, and I think in glided, &c., will be a good inscription.' Piozzi Letters,
ii. 302. Johnson is quoting from Mallet's ballad of Margaret's Ghost:--

     'Twas at the silent solemn hour,
      When night and morning meet;
      In glided Margaret's grimly ghost,
      And stood at William's feet.'

      Percy Ballads, in. 3, 16.

According to Northcote, Reynolds said of his sister's oil-paintings, 'they made other people
laugh and him cry.' 'She generally,' Northcote adds, 'did them by stealth.' Life of Reynolds,
ii. 160.

[713] 'Nocte, inter 16 et 17 Junii, 1783.

     Summe pater, quodcunque tuum de corpore Numen
       Hoc statuat, precibus Christus adesse velit:
     Ingenio parcas, nee sit mihi culpa rogasse,
       Qua solum potero parte placere tibi.'

     Works, i.159.

[714] According to the Gent. Mag. 1783, p.542, Dr. Lawrence died at Canterbury on June 13 of
this year, his second son died on the 15th. But, if we may trust Munk's Roll of the College
of Physicians, ii.153, on the father's tomb-stone, June 6 is given as the day of his death.
Mr. Croker gives June 17 as the date, and June 19 as the day of the son's death, and is puzzled
accordingly.

[715] Poor Derrick, however, though he did not himself introduce me to Dr. Johnson as he promised,
had the merit of introducing me to Davies, the immediate introductor. BOSWELL. See ante, i.385,
391.

[716] Miss Burney, calling on him the next morning, offered to make his tea. He had given her
his own large arm-chair which was too heavy for her to move to the table. '"Sir," quoth she,
"I am in the wrong chair." "It is so difficult," cried he with quickness, "for anything to
be wrong that belongs to you, that it can only be I that am in the wrong chair to keep you
from the right one."' Dr. Burney's Memoirs, ii. 345.

[717] His Lordship was soon after chosen, and is now a member of THE CLUB. BOSWELL. He was
father of the future prime-minister, who was born in the following year.

[718] He wrote on June 23:--'What man can do for man has been done for me.' Piozzi Letters,
ii.278. Murphy (Life, p. 121) says that, visiting him during illness, he found him reading
Dr. Watson's Chymistry (ante, p. 118). 'Articulating with difficulty he said:--"From this book
he who knows nothing may learn a great deal, and he who knows will be pleased to find his knowledge
recalled to his mind in a manner highly pleasing."'

[719] 'I have, by the migration of one of my ladies, more peace at home; but I remember an
old savage chief that says of the Romans with great indignation-ubi solitudinem faciunt pacem
appellant [Tacitus, Agricola, c. xxx]. Piozzi Letters, ii. 259.

[720] 'July 23. I have been thirteen days at Rochester, and am just now returned. I came back
by water in a common boat twenty miles for a shilling, and when I landed at Billingsgate, I
carried my budget myself to Cornhill before I could get a coach, and was not much incommoded'
Ib. ii.294. See ante, iv.8, 22, for mention of Rochester.

[721] Murphy (Life, p. 121) says that Johnson visited Oxford this summer. Perhaps he was misled
by a passage in the Piozzi Letters (ii. 302) where Johnson is made to write:--'At Oxford I
have just left Wheeler.' For left no doubt should be read lost. Wheeler died on July 22 of
this year. Gent. Mag. 1783, p. 629.

[722] This house would be interesting to Johnson, as in it Charles II, 'for whom he had an
extraordinary partiality' (ante, ii. 341), lay hid for some days after the battle of Worcester.
Clarendon (vi. 540) describes it 'as a house that stood alone from neighbours and from any
highway.' Charles was lodged 'in a little room, which had been made since the beginning of
the troubles for the concealment of delinquents.'

[723] 'I told Dr. Johnson I had heard that Mr. Bowles was very much delighted with the expectation
of seeing him, and he answered me:--"He is so delighted that it is shocking. It is really shocking
to see how high are his expectations." I asked him why, and he said:--"Why, if any man is expected
to take a leap of twenty yards, and does actually take one of ten, everybody will be disappointed,
though ten yards may be more than any other man ever leaped."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii.260.
On Oct. 9, he wrote:--'Two nights ago Mr. Burke sat with me a long time. We had both seen Stonehenge
this summer for the first time.' Piozzi Letters, ii.315.

[724] Salisbury is eighty-two miles from Cornhill by the old coach-road. Johnson seems to have
been nearly fifteen hours on the journey.

[725] 'Aug. 13, 1783. I am now broken with disease, without the alleviation of familiar friendship
or domestic society. I have no middle state between clamour and silence, between general conversation
and self-tormenting solitude. Levett is dead, and poor Williams is making haste to die.' Piozzi
Letters, ii.301. 'Aug. 20. This has been a day of great emotion; the office of the Communion
of the Sick has been performed in poor Mrs. Williams's chamber.' Ib. 'Sept. 22. Poor Williams
has, I hope, seen the end of her afflictions. She acted with prudence and she bore with fortitude.
She has left me.

     "Thou thy weary [worldly] task hast done,
      Home art gone and ta'en thy wages."

[726] Johnson (Works, viii. 354) described in 1756 such a companion as he found in Mrs. Williams.
He quotes Pope's Epitaph on Mrs. Corbet, and continues:--'I have always considered this as
the most valuable of all Pope's epitaphs; the subject of it is a character not discriminated
by any shining or eminent peculiarities; yet that which really makes, though not the splendour,
the felicity of life, and that which every wise man will choose for his final and lasting companion
in the languor of age, in the quiet of privacy, when he departs, weary and disgusted, from
the ostentatious, the volatile and the vain. Of such a character which the dull overlook, and
the gay despise, it was fit that the value should be made known, and the dignity established.'
See ante, i.232.

[727] Pr. and Med. p. 226. BOSWELL.

[728] I conjecture that Mr. Bowles is the friend. The account follows close on the visit to
his house, and contains a mention of Johnson's attendance at a lecture at Salisbury.

[729] A writer in Notes and Queries, 1st S. xii. 149, says:--'Mr. Bowles had married a descendant
of Oliver Cromwell, viz. Dinah, the fourth daughter of Sir Thomas Frankland, and highly valued
himself upon this connection with the Protector.' He adds that Mr. Bowles was an active Whig.

[730] Mr. Malone observes, 'This, however, was certainly a mistake, as appears from the Memoirs
published by Mr. Noble. Had Johnson been furnished with the materials which the industry of
that gentleman has procured, and with others which, it it is believed, are yet preserved in
manuscript, he would, without doubt, have produced a most valuable and curious history of Cromwell's
life.' BOSWELL.

[731] See ante, ii.358, note 3.

[732] Short Notes for Civil Conversation. Spedding's Bacon, vii.109.

[733] 'When I took up his Life of Cowley, he made me put it away to talk. I could not help
remarking how very like he is to his writing, and how much the same thing it was to hear or
to read him; but that nobody could tell that without coming to Streatham, for his language
was generally imagined to be laboured and studied, instead of the mere common flow of his thoughts.
"Very true," said Mrs. Thrale, "he writes and talks with the same ease, and in the same manner."'
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 120. 1843, i.404. See ante, ii.96, note; iv.183; and post, the end
of the vol.

[734] See ante, ii.125, iii.254, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 14.

[735] Hume said:--'The French have more real politeness, and the English the better method
of expressing it. By real politeness I mean softness of temper, and a sincere inclination to
oblige and be serviceable, which is very conspicuous in this nation, not only among the high,
but low; in so much that the porters and coachmen here are civil, and that, not only to gentlemen,
but likewise among themselves.' J.H. Burton's Hume, i. 53.

[736] This is the third time that Johnson's disgust at this practice is recorded. See ante,
ii.403, and iii.352.

[737] See ante, iii.398, note 3.

[738] 'Sept. 22, 1783. The chymical philosophers have discovered a body (which I have forgotten,
but will enquire) which, dissolved by an acid, emits a vapour lighter than the atmospherical
air. This vapour is caught, among other means, by tying a bladder compressed upon the body
in which the dissolution is performed; the vapour rising swells the bladder and fills it. Piozzi
Letters, ii.310. The 'body' was iron-filings, the acid sulphuric acid, and the vapour nitrogen.
The other 'new kinds of air' were the gases discovered by Priestley.

[739] I do not wonder at Johnson's displeasure when the name of Dr. Priestley was mentioned;
for I know no writer who has been suffered to publish more pernicious doctrines. I shall instance
only three. First, Materialism; by which mind is denied to human nature; which, if believed,
must deprive us of every elevated principle. Secondly, Necessity; or the doctrine that every
action, whether good or bad, is included in an unchangeable and unavoidable system; a notion
utterly subversive of moral government. Thirdly, that we have no reason to think that the future
world, (which, as he is pleased to inform us, will be adapted to our merely improved nature,)
will be materially different from this; which, if believed, would sink wretched mortals into
despair, as they could no longer hope for the 'rest that remaineth for the people of GOD' [Hebrews,
iv.9], or for that happiness which is revealed to us as something beyond our present conceptions;
but would feel themselves doomed to a continuation of the uneasy state under which they now
groan. I say nothing of the petulant intemperance with which he dares to insult the venerable
establishments of his country.

As a specimen of his writings, I shall quote the following passage, which appears to me equally
absurd and impious, and which might have been retorted upon him by the men who were prosecuted
for burning his house. 'I cannot, (says he,) as a necessarian, [meaning necessitarian] hate
any man; because I consider him as being, in all respects, just what GOD has made him to be;
and also as doing with respect to me, nothing but what he was expressly designed and appointed
to do; GOD being the only cause, and men nothing more than the instruments in his hands to
execute all his pleasure.'-- Illustrations of Philosophical Necessity, p. 111.

The Reverend Dr. Parr, in a late tract, appears to suppose that 'Dr. Johnson not only endured,
but almost solicited, an interview with Dr. Priestley. In justice to Dr. Johnson, I declare
my firm belief that he never did. I was present at Oxford when Dr. Price, even before he had
rendered himself so generally obnoxious by his zeal for the French Revolution, came into a
company where Johnson was, who instantly left the room. Much more would he have reprobated
Dr. Priestley. Whoever wishes to see a perfect delineation of this Literary Jack of all Trades,
may find it in an ingenious tract, entitled, 'A SMALL WHOLE-LENGTH OF DR. PRIESTLEY,' printed
for Rivingtons, in St. Paul's Church-Yard. BOSWELL. See Appendix B.

[740] Burke said, 'I have learnt to think better of mankind.' Ante, iii.236.

[741] He wrote to his servant Frank from Heale on Sept. l6:--'As Thursday [the 18th] is my
birthday I would have a little dinner got, and would have you invite Mrs. Desmoulins, Mrs.
Davis that was about Mrs. Williams, and Mr. Allen, and Mrs. Gardiner.' Croker's Boswell, p.739.
See ante, iii.157, note 3.

[742] Dr. Burney had just lost Mr. Bewley, 'the Broom Gentleman' (ante, p. 134), and Mr. Crisp.
Dr. Burney's Memoirs, ii.323, 352. For Mr. Crisp, see Macaulay's Review of Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary. Essays, ed. 1874, iv.104.

[743] He wrote of her to Mrs. Montagu:--'Her curiosity was universal, her knowledge was very
extensive, and she sustained forty years of misery with steady fortitude. This letter brought
to a close his quarrel with Mrs. Montagu (ante, p. 64).

[744] On Sept. 22 he wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'If excision should be delayed, there is danger
of a gangrene. You would not have me for fear of pain perish in putrescence. I shall, I hope,
with trust in eternal mercy, lay hold of the possibility of life which yet remains.' Piozzi
Letters, ii.312.

[745] Rather more than seven years ago. Ante, ii.82, note 2.

[746] Mrs. Anna Williams. BOSWELL.

[747] See ante, p. 163, and Boswell's Hebrides, Nov 2.

[748] Dated Oct. 27. Piozzi Letters, ii.321.

[749] According to Mrs. Piozzi (Letters, ii.387), he said to Mrs. Siddons:--'You see, Madam,
wherever you go there are no seats to be got.' Sir Joshua also paid her a fine compliment.
'He never marked his own name [on a picture],' says Northcote, 'except in the instance of Mrs.
Siddons's portrait as the Tragic Muse, when he wrote his name upon the hem of her garment.
"I could not lose," he said, "the honour this opportunity offered to me for my name going down
to posterity on the hem of your garment."' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 246. In Johnson's Works,
ed. 1787, xi. 207, we read that 'he said of Mrs. Siddons that she appeared to him to be one
of the few persons that the two great corrupters of mankind, money and reputation, had not
spoiled.'

[750] 'Indeed, Dr. Johnson,' said Miss Monckton, 'you must see Mrs. Siddons.' 'Well, Madam,
if you desire it, I will go. See her I shall not, nor hear her; but I'll go, and that will
do.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 198.

[751] 'Mrs. Porter, the tragedian, was so much the favourite of her time, that she was welcomed
on the stage when she trod it by the help of a stick.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 319.

[752] He said:--'Mrs. Clive was the best player I ever saw.' Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 126.
See ante, p. 7. She was for many years the neighbour and friend of Horace Walpole.

[753] She acted the heroine in Irene. Ante, i. 197. 'It is wonderful how little mind she had,'
he once said. Ante, ii. 348. See Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 126.

[754] See ante, iii. 183.

[755] See ante, iii. 184.

[756] 'Garrick's great distinction is his universality,' Johnson said. 'He can represent all
modes of life, but that of an easy, fine-bred gentleman.' Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 126.
See ante, iii. 35. Horace Walpole wrote of Garrick in 1765 (Letters, iv. 335):--'Several actors
have pleased me more, though I allow not in so many parts. Quin in Falstaff was as excellent
as Garrick in Lear. Old Johnson far more natural in everything he attempted; Mrs. Porter surpassed
him in passionate tragedy. Cibber and O'Brien were what Garrick could never reach, coxcombs
and men of fashion. Mrs. Clive is at least as perfect in low comedy.'

[757] See ante, ii. 465.

[758] Mr. Kemble told Mr. Croker that 'Mrs. Siddons's pathos in the last scene of The Stranger
quite overcame him, but he always endeavoured to restrain any impulses which might interfere
with his previous study of his part.' Croker's Boswell, p. 742. Diderot, writing of the qualifications
of a great actor, says:--'Je lui veux beaucoup de jugement; je le veux spectateur froid et
tranquille de la nature humaine; qu'il ait par conséquent beaucoup de finesse, mais nulle sensibilité,
ou, ce qui est la même chose, l'art de tout imiter, et une égale aptitude à toutes sortes de
caractères et de rôles; s'il était sensible, il lui serait impossible de jouer dix fois de
suite le même rôle avec la même chaleur et le même succès; très chaud à la première représentation,
il serait épuisé et froid comme le marble à la troisième,' &c. Diderot's Works (ed. 1821),
iii. 274. See Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 46.

[759] My worthy friend, Mr. John Nichols, was present when Mr. Henderson, the actor, paid a
visit to Dr. Johnson; and was received in a very courteous manner. See Gent. Mag. June, 1791.

I found among Dr. Johnson's papers, the following letter to him, from the celebrated Mrs. Bellamy
[ante, i. 326]:--

'To DR. JOHNSON.

'SIR,

'The flattering remembrance of the partiality you honoured me with, some years ago, as well
as the humanity you are known to possess, has encouraged me to solicit your patronage at my
Benefit.

'By a long Chancery suit, and a complicated train of unfortunate events, I am reduced to the
greatest distress; which obliges me, once more, to request the indulgence of the publick.

'Give me leave to solicit the honour of your company, and to assure you, if you grant my request,
the gratification I shall feel, from being patronized by Dr. Johnson, will be infinitely superiour
to any advantage that may arise from the Benefit; as I am, with the profoundest respect, Sir,

'Your most obedient, humble servant, G. A. BELLAMY. No. 10 Duke-street, St. James's, May 11, 1783.'

I am happy in recording these particulars, which prove that my illustrious friend lived to
think much more favourably of Players than he appears to have done in the early part of his
life. BOSWELL. Mr. Nichols, describing Henderson's visit to Johnson, says:--'The conversation
turning on the merits of a certain dramatic writer, Johnson said: "I never did the man an injury;
but he would persist in reading his tragedy to me."' Gent. Mag: 1791, p. 500.

[760] Piozzi Letters, vol. ii. p. 328. BOSWELL.

[761] Piozzi Letters, vol. ii. p. 342. BOSWELL. The letter to Miss Thrale was dated Nov. 18.
Johnson wrote on Dec. l3:--'You must all guess again at my friend. It was not till Dec. 31
that he told the name.

[762] Miss Burney, who visited him on this day, records:--'He was, if possible, more instructive,
entertaining, good-humoured, and exquisitely fertile than ever.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii.
284. The day before he wrote to one of Mrs. Thrale's little daughters:--'I live here by my
own self, and have had of late very bad nights; but then I have had a pig to dinner which Mr.
Perkins gave me. Thus life is chequered.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 327.

[763] See ante, i. 242.

[764] See ante, i. 242.

[765] Nos. 26 and 29.

[766] Piozzi Letters, i. 334. See ante, p. 75.

[767] He strongly opposed the war with America, and was one of Dr. Franklin's friends. Franklin's
Memoirs, ed. 1818, iii. 108.

[768] It was of this tragedy that the following story is told in Rogers's Table-Talk, p. 177:--'Lord
Shelburne could say the most provoking things, and yet appear quite unconscious of their being
so. In one of his speeches, alluding to Lord Carlisle, he said:--"The noble Lord has written
a comedy." "No, a tragedy." "Oh, I beg pardon; I thought it was a comedy."' See ante, p. 113.
Pope, writing to Mr. Cromwell on Aug. 19, 1709, says:--'One might ask the same question of
a modern life, that Rich did of a modern play: "Pray do me the favour, Sir, to inform me is
this your tragedy or your comedy?"' Pope's Works, ed. 1812, vi. 81.

[769] Mrs. Chapone, when she was Miss Mulso, had written 'four billets in The Rambler, No.
10.' Ante, i. 203. She was one of the literary ladies who sat at Richardson's feet. Wraxall
(Memoirs, ed. 1815, i. 155) says that 'under one of the most repulsive exteriors that any woman
ever possessed she concealed very superior attainments and extensive knowledge.' Just as Mrs.
Carter was often called 'the learned Mrs. Carter,' so Mrs. Chapone was known as 'the admirable
Mrs. Chapone.'

[770] See ante, iii. 373.

[771] A few copies only of this tragedy have been printed, and given to the authour's friends.
BOSWELL.

[772] Dr. Johnson having been very ill when the tragedy was first sent to him, had declined
the consideration of it. BOSWELL.

[773] Johnson refers, I suppose, to a passage in Dryden which he quotes in his Dictionary under
mechanick:--'Many a fair precept in poetry is like a seeming demonstration in mathematicks,
very specious in the diagram, but failing in the mechanick operation.'

[774]

     'I could have borne my woes; that stranger Joy
      Wounds while it smiles:--The long imprison'd wretch,
      Emerging from the night of his damp cell,
      Shrinks from the sun's bright beams; and that which flings
      Gladness o'er all, to him is agony.' BOSWELL.

[775] Lord Cockburn (Life of Lord Jeffrey, i. 74) describing the representation of Scotland
towards the close of last century, and in fact till the Reform Bill of 1832, says:--'There
were probably not above 1500 or 2000 county electors in all Scotland; a body not too large
to be held, hope included, in Government's hand. The election of either the town or the county
member was a matter of such utter indifference to the people, that they often only knew of
it by the ringing of a bell, or by seeing it mentioned next day in a newspaper.'

[776] Six years later, when he was Praeses of the Quarter-Sessions, he carried up to London
an address to be presented to the Prince of Wales. 'This,' he wrote, 'will add something to
my conspicuousness. Will that word do?' Letters of Boswell, p. 295.

[777] This part of this letter was written, as Johnson goes on to say, a considerable time
before the conclusion. The Coalition Ministry, which was suddenly dismissed by the King on
Dec. 19, was therefore still in power. Among Boswell's 'friends' was Burke. See ante, p. 223.

[778] On Nov. 22 he wrote to Dr. Taylor:-'I feel the weight of solitude very pressing; after
a night of broken and uncomfortable slumber I rise to a solitary breakfast, and sit down in
the evening with no companion. Sometimes, however, I try to read more and more.' Notes and
Queries, 6th S. v. 482. They come when I could sleep or read, they stay till I am weary....
The amusements and consolations of langour and depression are conferred by familiar and domestick
companions, which can be visited or called at will.... Such society I had with Levett and Williams;
such I had where I am never likely to have it more.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 341.

[779] The confusion arising from the sudden dismissal of a Ministry which commanded a large
majority in the House of Commons had been increased by the resignation, on Dec. 22, of Earl
Temple, three days after his appointment as Secretary of State. Parl. Hist. xxiv. 238.

[780] 'News I know none,' wrote Horace Walpole on Dec. 30, 1783 (Letters, viii. 447), 'but
that they are crying Peerages about the streets in barrows, and can get none off.' Thirty-three
peerages were made in the next three years. (Whitaker's Almanac, 1886, p. 463.) Macaulay tells
how this December 'a troop of Lords of the Bedchamber, of Bishops who wished to be translated,
and of Scotch peers who wished to be reelected made haste to change sides.' Macaulay's Writings
and Speeches, ed. 1871, p. 407.

[781] See ante, ii. 182. He died Oct. 28, 1788.

[782]'Prince Henry was the first encourager of remote navigation. What mankind has lost and
gained by the genius and designs of this prince it would be long to compare, and very difficult
to estimate. The Europeans have scarcely visited any coast but to gratify avarice, and extend
corruption; to arrogate dominion without right, and practise cruelty without incentive. Happy
had it then been for the oppressed, if the designs of Henry had slept in his bosom, and surely
more happy for the oppressors.' Johnson's Works, v. 219. See ante, ii. 478.

[783] 'The author himself,' wrote Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 220), 'is the best judge of his own
performance; no one has so deeply meditated on the subject; no one is so sincerely interested
in the event.'

[784] Mickle, speaking in the third person as the Translator, says:-- 'He is happy to be enabled
to add Dr. Johnson to the number of those whose kindness for the man, and good wishes for the
Translation, call for his sincerest gratitude.' Mickle's Lusiad, p. ccxxv.

[785] A brief record, it should seem, is given, ante, iii. 37.

[786] See ante, iii. 106, 214.

[787] The author of Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Dr, Johnson says (p. 153) that it was
Johnson who determined Shaw to undertake this work. 'Sir,' he said, 'if you give the world
a vocabulary of that language, while the island of Great Britain stands in the Atlantic Ocean
your name will be mentioned.' On p. 156 is a letter by Johnson introducing Shaw to a friend.

[788] 'Why is not the original deposited in some publick library?' he asked. Boswell's Hebrides,
Nov. 10.

[789] See ante, i. 190.

[790] See Appendix C.

[791] 'Dec. 27, 1873. The wearisome solitude of the long evenings did indeed suggest to me
the convenience of a club in my neighbourhood, but I have been hindered from attending it by
want of breath.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 340. 'Dec. 31. I have much need of entertainment; spiritless,
infirm, sleepless, and solitary, looking back with sorrow and forward with terrour.' Ib, p. 343.

[792] '"I think," said Mr. Cambridge, "it sounds more like some club that one reads of in The
Spectator than like a real club in these times; for the forfeits of a whole year will not amount
to those of a single night in other clubs."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 290. Mr. Cambridge
was thinking of the Two-penny Club. Spectator, No. ix. Mr. Croker says 'Johnson had already
invented unclubable for Sir J. Hawkins,' and refers to a note by Dr. Burney (ante, i. 480,
note I), in which Johnson is represented as saying of Hawkins, while he was still a member
of the Literary Club:--'Sir John, Sir, is a very unclubable man.' But, as Mr. Croker points
out (Croker's Boswell, p. 164), 'Hawkins was not knighted till long after he had left the club.'
The anecdote, being proved to be inaccurate in one point, may be inaccurate in another, and
may therefore belong to a much later date.

[794] See Appendix D.

[795] Ben Jonson wrote Leges Convivales that were 'engraven in marble over the chimney in the
Apollo of the Old Devil Tavern, Temple Bar; that being his Club Room.' Jonson's Works, ed.
1756, vii. 291.

[796] RULES.

     'To-day deep thoughts with me resolve to drench
     In mirth, which after no repenting draws.'--MILTON.

     ['To-day deep thoughts resolve with me to drench
      In mirth that, &c.' Sonnets, xxi.]

'The Club shall consist of four-and-twenty.

'The meetings shall be on the Monday, Thursday, and Saturday of every week; but in the week
before Easter there shall be no meeting.

'Every member is at liberty to introduce a friend once a week, but not oftener.

'Two members shall oblige themselves to attend in their turn every night from eight to ten,
or to procure two to attend in their room.

'Every member present at the Club shall spend at least sixpence; and every member who stays
away shall forfeit three-pence.

'The master of the house shall keep an account of the absent members; and deliver to the President
of the night a list of the forfeits incurred.

'When any member returns after absence, he shall immediately lay down his forfeits; which if
he omits to do, the President shall require.

'There shall be no general reckoning, but every man shall adjust his own expences.

'The night of indispensable attendance will come to every member once a month. Whoever shall
for three months together omit to attend himself, or by substitution, nor shall make any apology
in the fourth month, shall be considered as having abdicated the Club.

'When a vacancy is to be filled, the name of the candidate, and of the member recommending
him, shall stand in the Club-room three nights. On the fourth he may be chosen by ballot; six
members at least being present, and two-thirds of the ballot being in his favour; or the majority,
should the numbers not be divisible by three.

'The master of the house shall give notice, six days before, to each of those members whose
turn of necessary attendance is come.

'The notice may be in these words:--"Sir, On ---- the ---- of ---- -- will be your turn of
presiding at the Essex-Head. Your company is therefore earnestly requested."

'One penny shall be left by each member for the waiter.'

Johnson's definition of a Club in this sense, in his Dictionary, is, 'An assembly of good fellows,
meeting under certain conditions.' BOSWELL.

[797] She had left him in the summer (ante, p. 233), but perhaps she had returned.

[798] He received many acts of kindness from outside friends. On Dec. 31 he wrote:--'I have
now in the house pheasant, venison, turkey, and ham, all unbought. Attention and respect give
pleasure, however late or however useless. But they are not useless when they are late; it
is reasonable to rejoice, as the day declines, to find that it has been spent with the approbation
of mankind.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 343.

[799] 'Dec. 16, 1783. I spent the afternoon with Dr. Johnson, who indeed is very ill, and whom
I could hardly tell how to leave. He was very, very kind. Oh! what a cruel, heavy loss will
he be! Dec. 30. I went to Dr. Johnson, and spent the evening with him. He was very indifferent
indeed. There were some very disagreeable people with him; and he once affected me very much
by turning suddenly to me, and grasping my hand and saying:--"The blister I have tried for
my breath has betrayed some very bad tokens; but I will not terrify myself by talking of them.
Ah! priez Dieu pour moi."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 293, 5. 'I snatch,' he wrote a few weeks
later, 'every lucid interval, and animate myself with such amusements as the time offers.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 349.

[800] He had written to her on Nov. 10. See Croker's Boswell, p. 742.

[801] Hawkins (Life, 562) says that this November Johnson said to him:--'What a man am I, who
have got the better of three diseases, the palsy, the gout, and the asthma, and can now enjoy
the conversation of my friends, without the interruptions of weakness or pain.'

[802] 'The street [on London Bridge], which, before the houses fell to decay, consisted of
handsome lofty edifices, pretty regularly built, was 20 feet broad, and the houses on each
side generally 26-1/2 feet deep.' After 1746 no more leases were granted, and the houses were
allowed to run to ruin. In 1756-7 they were all taken down. Dodsley's London and its Environs,
ed. 1761, iv. 136-143.

[803] In Lowndes's Bibl. Man. i. 328 is given a list of nearly fifty of these books. Some of
them were reprinted by Stace in 1810-13 in 6 vols. quarto. Dr. Franklin, writing of the books
that he bought in his boyhood says:--'My first acquisition was Bunyan's works in separate little
volumes. I afterwards sold them to enable me to buy R. Burton's Historical Collections; they
were small chapmen's books, and cheap. Forty volumes in all.' Franklin's Memoirs, i. 17.

[804] He wrote to Mrs. Thrale this same day:--'Alas, I had no sleep last night, and sit now
panting over my paper. Dabit Deus his quoque finem.' ['This too the Gods shall end.' MORRIS,
Virgil, Aeneids, 1.199.] Piozzi Letters, ii. 347.

[805] Boswell's purpose in this Letter was to recommend the Scotch to address the King to express
their satisfaction that the East India Company Bill had been rejected by the House of Lords.
Ib. p. 39. 'Let us,' he writes, 'upon this awful occasion think only of property and constitution;'
p. 42. 'Let me add,' he says in concluding, 'that a dismission of the Portland Administration
will probably disappoint an object which I have most ardently at heart;' p. 42. He was thinking
no doubt of his 'expectations from the interest of an eminent person then in power' (ante, p. 223.)

[806] On p. 4 Boswell condemns the claim of Parliament to tax the American colonies as 'unjust
and inexpedient.' 'This claim,' he says, 'was almost universally approved of in Scotland, where
due consideration was had of the advantage of raising regiments.' He continues:--'When pleading
at the bar of the House of Commons in a question concerning taxation, I avowed that opinion,
declaring that the man in the world for whom I have the highest respect (Dr. Johnson) had not
been able to convince me that Taxation was no Tyranny.'

[807] Boswell wrote to Reynolds on Feb. 6:--'I intend to be in London next month, chiefly to
attend upon Dr. Johnson with respectful affection.' Croker's Boswell, p. 748.

[808] 'I have really hope from spring,' he wrote on Jan. 21, 'and am ready, like Almanzor,
to bid the sun fly swiftly, and leave weeks and months behind him. The sun has looked for six
thousand years upon the world to little purpose, if he does not know that a sick man is almost
as impatient as a lover.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 347.

[809] He died in the following August at Dover, on his way home. Walpole's Letters, viii. 494.
See ante, iii. 250, 336, and post, Aug. 19, 1784.

[810] On the last day of the old year he wrote:--'To any man who extends his thoughts to national
consideration, the times are dismal and gloomy. But to a sick man, what is the publick?' Piozzi
Letters, ii. 344.

The original of the following note is in the admirable collection of autographs belonging to
my friend, Mr. M. M. Holloway:--

'TO THE REV. DR. TAYLOR,

'in Ashbourne,

'Derbyshire.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am still confined to the house, and one of my amusements is to write letters to my friends,
though they, being busy in the common scenes of life, are not equally diligent in writing to
me. Dr. Heberden was with me two or three days ago, and told me that nothing ailed me, which
I was glad to hear, though I knew it not to be true. My nights are restless, my breath is difficult,
and my lower parts continue tumid.

'The struggle, you see, still continues between the two sets of ministers: those that are out
and in one can scarce call them, for who is out or in is perhaps four times a day a new question.
The tumult in government is, I believe, excessive, and the efforts of each party outrageously
violent, with very little thought on any national interest, at a time when we have all the
world for our enemies, when the King and parliament have lost even the titular dominion of
America, and the real power of Government every where else. Thus Empires are broken down when
the profits of administration are so great, that ambition is satisfied with obtaining them,
and he that aspires to greatness needs do nothing more than talk himself into importance. He
has then all the power which danger and conquest used formerly to give; he can raise a family
and reward his followers.

'Mr. Burke has just sent me his Speech upon the affairs of India, a volume of above a hundred
pages closely printed. I will look into it; but my thoughts seldom now travel to great distances.

'I would gladly know when you think to come hither, and whether this year you will come or
no. If my life be continued, I know not well how I shall bestow myself.

'I am, Sir,

'Your affectionate &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, Jan. 24, 1784.'

[811] See post, v. 48.

[812] See post, p. 271.

[813] I sent it to Mr. Pitt, with a letter, in which I thus expressed myself:--'My principles
may appear to you too monarchical: but I know and am persuaded, they are not inconsistent with
the true principles of liberty. Be this as it may, you, Sir, are now the Prime Minister, called
by the Sovereign to maintain the rights of the Crown, as well as those of the people, against
a violent faction. As such, you are entitled to the warmest support of every good subject in
every department.' He answered:--'I am extremely obliged to you for the sentiments you do me
the honour to express, and have observed with great pleasure the zealous and able support given
to the CAUSE OF THE PUBLICK in the work you were so good to transmit to me.' BOSWELL. Five
years later, and two years before The Life of Johnson was published, Boswell wrote to Temple:--'As
to Pitt, he is an insolent fellow, but so able, that upon the whole I must support him against
the Coalition; but I will work him, for he has behaved very ill to me. Can he wonder at my
wishing for preferment, when men of the first family and fortune in England struggle for it?'
Letters of Boswell, p. 295. Warburton said of Helvetius, whom he disliked, that, if he had
met him, 'he would have worked him.' Walpole's Letters, iv. 217.

[814] Out of this offer, and one of a like nature made in 1779 (ante, iii. 418), Mr. Croker
weaves a vast web of ridiculous suspicions.

[815] From his garden at Prestonfield, where he cultivated that plant with such success, that
he was presented with a gold medal by the Society of London for the Encouragement of Arts,
Manufactures, and Commerce. BOSWELL.

[816] In the original effusion. Johnson's Works, vii. 402.

[817] Who had written him a very kind letter. BOSWELL.

[818] On Jan. 12 the Ministry had been in a minority of 39 in a House of 425; on March 8 the
minority was reduced to one in a House of 381. Parliament was dissolved on the 25th. In the
first division in the new Parliament the Ministry were in a majority of 97 in a House of 369.
Parl. Hist. xxiv. 299, 744, 829.

[819] See ante, p. 241.

[820] 'In old Aberdeen stands the King's College, of which the first president was Hector Boece,
or Boethius, who may be justly reverenced as one of the revivers of elegant learning.' Johnson's
Works, ix. 11.

[821] See ante, iii. 104.

[822] In his dining-room, no doubt, among 'the very respectable people' whose portraits hung
there. Ante, p. 203, note.

[823] Horace Walpole (Letters, viii. 466) wrote on March 30:--'The nation is intoxicated, and
has poured in Addresses of Thanks to the Crown for exerting the prerogative against the palladium
of the people.'

[824] The election lasted from April 1 to May 16. Fox was returned second on the poll. Ann.
Reg. xxvii. 190.

[825] He was returned also for Kirkwall, for which place he sat for nearly a year, while the
scrutiny of the Westminster election was dragging on. Parl. Hist. xxiv. 799.

[826] Hannah More wrote on March 8 (Memoirs, i. 310):--'I am sure you will honour Mr. Langton,
when I tell you he is come on purpose to stay with Dr. Johnson, and that during his illness.
He has taken a little lodging in Fleet-street in order to be near, to devote himself to him.
He has as much goodness as learning, and that is saying a bold thing of one of the first Greek
scholars we have.'

[827] Floyer was the Lichfield physician on whose advice Johnson was 'touched' by Queen Anne.
Ante, i. 42, 91, and post, July 20, 1784.

[828] To which Johnson returned this answer:--

'TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE EARL OF PORTMORE.

'Dr. Johnson acknowledges with great respect the honour of Lord Portmore's notice. He is better
than he was; and will, as his Lordship directs, write to Mr. Langton.

'Bolt-court, Fleet-street,

April 13, 1784.'

BOSWELL. Johnson here assumes his title of Doctor, which Boswell says (ante, ii. 332, note
1), so far as he knew, he never did. Perhaps the letter has been wrongly copied, or perhaps
Johnson thought that, in writing to a man of title, he ought to assume such title as he himself
had.

[829] The eminent painter, representative of the ancient family of Homfrey (now Humphry) in
the west of England; who, as appears from their arms which they have invariably used, have
been, (as I have seen authenticated by the best authority,) one of those among the Knights
and Esquires of honour who are represented by Holinshed as having issued from the Tower of
London on coursers apparelled for the justes, accompanied by ladies of honour, leading every
one a Knight, with a chain of gold, passing through the streets of London into Smithfield,
on Sunday, at three o'clock in the afternoon, being the first Sunday after Michaelmas, in the
fourteenth year of King Richard the Second. This family once enjoyed large possessions, but,
like others, have lost them in the progress of ages. Their blood, however, remains to them
well ascertained; and they may hope in the revolution of events, to recover that rank in society
for which, in modern times, fortune seems to be an indispensable requisite. BOSWELL.

[830] Son of Mr. Samuel Paterson. BOSWELL. In the first two editions after 'Paterson' is added
'eminent for his knowledge of books.' See ante, iii. 90.

[831] Humphry, on his first coming to London, poor and unfriended, was helped by Reynolds.
Northcote's Reynolds, ii. 174.

[832] On April 21 he wrote:--'After a confinement of 129 days, more than the third part of
a year, and no inconsiderable part of human life, I this day returned thanks to God in St.
Clement's Church for my recovery.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 365.

[833] On April 26 he wrote:--'On Saturday I showed myself again to the living world at the
Exhibition; much and splendid was the company, but like the Doge of Genoa at Paris [Versailles,
Voltaire, Siècle de Louis XIV, chap, xiv.], I admired nothing but myself. I went up the stairs
to the pictures without stopping to rest or to breathe,

     "In all the madness of superfluous health."

[Pope's Essay on Man, iii. 3.] The Prince of Wales had promised to be there; but when we had
waited an hour and a half, sent us word that he could not come.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 367. 'The
first Gentleman in Europe' was twenty-one years old when he treated men like Johnson and Reynolds
with this insolence. Mr. Forster (Life of Goldsmith, ii. 244) says that it was at this very
dinner that 'Johnson left his seat by desire of the Prince of Wales, and went to the head of
the table to be introduced.' He does not give his authority for the statement.

[834] Mr. Croker wrote in 1847 that he had 'seen it very lately framed and glazed, in possession
of the lady to whom it was addressed.' Croker's Boswell, p. 753.

[835] Shortly before he begged one of Mrs. Thrale's daughters 'never to think that she had
arithmetic enough.' Ante, p. 171, note 3. See ante, iii. 207, note 3.

[836] Cowper wrote on May 10 to the Rev. John Newton:--'We rejoice in the account you give
us of Dr. Johnson. His conversion will indeed be a singular proof of the omnipotence of Grace;
and the more singular, the more decided.' Southey's Cowper, xv. 150. Johnson, in a prayer that
he wrote on April 11, said:--'Enable me, O Lord, to glorify Thee for that knowledge of my corruption,
and that sense of Thy wrath, which my disease and weakness and danger awakened in my mind.'
Pr. and Med. p. 217.

[837] Mr. Croker suggests immediate.

[838] 'The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.' St. James, v. 16.

[839] Upon this subject there is a very fair and judicious remark in the life of Dr. Abernethy,
in the first edition of the Biographia Britannica, which I should have been glad to see in
his life which has been written for the second edition of that valuable work. 'To deny the
exercise of a particular providence in the Deity's government of the world is certainly impious:
yet nothing serves the cause of the scorner more than an incautious forward zeal in determining
the particular instances of it.'

In confirmation of my sentiments, I am also happy to quote that sensible and elegant writer
Mr. Melmoth [see ante, iii. 422], in Letter VIII. of his collection, published under the name
of Fitzosborne. 'We may safely assert, that the belief of a particular Providence is founded
upon such probable reasons as may well justify our assent. It would scarce, therefore, be wise
to renounce an opinion which affords so firm a support to the soul, in those seasons wherein
she stands in most need of assistance, merely because it is not possible, in questions of this
kind, to solve every difficulty which attends them.' BOSWELL.

[840] I was sorry to observe Lord Monboddo avoid any communication with Dr. Johnson. I flattered
myself that I had made them very good friends (see Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, third
edit. p. 67, post, v. 80), but unhappily his Lordship had resumed and cherished a violent prejudice
against my illustrious friend, to whom I must do the justice to say, there was on his part
not the least anger, but a good-humoured sportiveness. Nay, though he knew of his Lordship's
indisposition towards him, he was even kindly; as appeared from his inquiring of me after him,
by an abbreviation of his name, 'Well, how does Monny?' BOSWELL. Boswell (Hebrides, post, v.
74) says:--'I knew Lord Monboddo and Dr. Johnson did not love each other; yet I was unwilling
not to visit his lordship, and was also curious to see them together.' Accordingly, he brought
about a meeting. Four years later, in 1777 (ante, iii. 102), Monboddo received from Johnson
a copy of his Journey to the Hebrides. They met again in London in 1780 (Piozzi Letters, ii.
III), and perhaps then quarrelled afresh. Dr. Seattle wrote on Feb. 28, 1785:-'Lord Monboddo's
hatred of Johnson was singular; he would not allow him to know anything but Latin grammar,
"and that," says he, "I know as well as he does." I never heard Johnson say anything severe
of him, though when he mentioned his name, he generally "grinned horribly a ghastly smile,"'
['Grinned horrible,' &c. Paradise Lost, ii. 846.] Forbes's Beattie, p. 333. The use of the
abbreviation Monny on Johnson's part scarcely seems a proof of kindliness. See ante, i. 453,
where he said:--'Why, Sir, Sherry is dull, naturally dull,' &c.; and iii. 84, note 2, where
he said:--'I should have thought Mund Burke would have had more sense;' see also Rogers's Boswelliana,
p. 216, where he said:--'Derry [Derrick] may do very well while he can outrun his character;
but the moment that his character gets up with him he is gone.'

[841] On May 13 he wrote:--' Now I am broken loose, my friends seem willing enough to see me.
... But I do not now drive the world about; the world drives or draws me. I am very weak.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 369.

[842] See ante, iii, 443.

[843] See ante, p. 197.

[844] Boswell himself, likely enough.

[845] Verses on the death of Mr. Levett. BOSWELL. Ante, p. 138

[846] If it was Boswell to whom this advice was given, it is not unlikely that he needed it.
The meagreness of his record of Johnson's talk at this season may have been due, as seems to
have happened before, to too much drinking. Ante, p.88, note 1.

[847] Ante, ii. 100.

[848] George Steevens. See ante, iii. 281.

[849] Forty-six years earlier Johnson wrote of this lady:-'I have composed a Greek epigram
to Eliza, and think she ought to be celebrated in as many different languages as Lewis le Grand.'
Ante, i. 122. Miss Burney described her in 1780 as 'really a noble-looking woman; I never saw
age so graceful in the female sex yet; her whole face seems to beam with goodness, piety, and
philanthropy.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 373.

[850] 'Mrs. Thrale says that though Mrs. Lennox's books are generally approved, nobody likes
her.' Ib. p. 91. See ante, i. 255, and iv. 10.

[851] 'Sept. 1778. MRS. THRALE. "Mrs. Montagu is the first woman for literary knowledge in
England, and if in England, I hope I may say in the world." DR. JOHNSON. "I believe you may,
Madam. She diffuses more knowledge in her conversation than any woman I know, or, indeed, almost
any man." MRS. THRALE. "I declare I know no man equal to her, take away yourself and Burke,
for that art."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 118. It is curious that Mrs. Thrale and Boswell should
both thus instance Burke. See ante, ii. 88, note 3. These five ladies all lived to a great
age. Mrs. Montagu was 80 when she died; Mrs. Lennox, 83; Miss Burney (Mme. D'Arblay), 87; Miss
More and Mrs. (Miss) Carter, 88. Their hostess, Mrs. Garrick, was 97 or 98.

[852] Miss Burney, describing how she first saw Burke, says:--'I had been told that Burke was
not expected; yet I could conclude this gentleman to be no other. There was an evident, a striking
superiority in his demeanour, his eye, his motions, that announced him no common man.' Mme.
D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 145. See ante, ii. 450, where Johnson said of Burke:--'His stream of
mind is perpetual;' and Boswell's Hebrides post,, v. 32, and Prior's Life of Burke, fifth edition,
p. 58.

[853] Kennel is a strong word to apply to Burke; but, in his jocularity, he sometimes 'let
himself down' to indelicate stories. In the House of Commons he had told one--and a very stupid
one too--not a year before. Parl. Hist, xxiii. 918. Horace Walpole speaks of Burke's 'pursuit
of wit even to puerility.' Journal of the Reign of George III, i. 443. He adds (ib. ii. 26):--'Burke
himself always aimed at wit, but was not equally happy in public and private. In the former,
nothing was so luminous, so striking, so abundant; in private, it was forced, unnatural, and
bombast.' See ante, p. 104, where Wilkes said that in his oratory 'there was a strange want
of taste.'

[854] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, third edition, p. 20 [post, v. 32.] BOSWELL. See also
ante, i. 453, and iii. 323.

[855] I have since heard that the report was not well founded; but the elation discovered by
Johnson in the belief that it was true, shewed a noble ardour for literary fame. BOSWELL. Johnson
wrote on Feb. 9:--'One thing which I have just heard you will think to surpass expectation.
The chaplain of the factory at Petersburgh relates that the Rambler is now, by the command
of the Empress, translating into Russian, and has promised, when it is printed, to send me
a copy.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 349. Stockdale records (Memoirs, ii. 98) that in 1773 the Empress
of Russia engaged 'six English literary gentlemen for instructors of her young nobility in
her Academy at St. Petersburgh.' He was offered one of the posts. Her zeal may have gone yet
further, and she may have wished to open up English literature to those who could not read
English. Beauclerk's library was offered for sale to the Russian Ambassador. Ante, iii. 420.
Miss Burney, in 1789, said that a newspaper reported that 'Angelica Kauffmann is making drawings
from Evelina for the Empress of Russia.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, v. 35.

[856]

     '--me peritus
      Disect Iber, Rhodanique potor.'

     'To him who drinks the rapid Rhone
      Shall Horace, deathless bard, be known.'

      FRANCIS. Horace, Odes, ii. 20. 19.

[857] See ante, iii. 49.

[858] See post, June 12, 1784.

[859] See ante, p. 126.

[860] H. C. Robinson (Diary, i. 29) describes him as 'an author on an infinity of subjects;
his books were on Law, History, Poetry, Antiquities, Divinity, Politics.' He adds (ib. p. 49l):--'Godwin,
Lofft, and Thelwall are the only three persons I know (except Hazlitt) who grieve at the late
events'--the defeat of Napoleon at Waterloo. He found long after his death 'a MS. by him in
these words:--"Rousseau, Euripides, Tasso, Racine, Cicero, Virgil, Petrarch, Richardson. If
I had five millions of years to live upon this earth, these I would read daily with increasing
delight."' Ib. iii. 283.

[861] Dunciad, iv. 394, note.

[862] The King opened Parliament this day. Hannah More during the election found the mob favourable
to Fox. One night, in a Sedan chair, she was stopped with the news that it was not safe to
go through Covent Garden. 'There were a hundred armed men,' she was told, 'who, suspecting
every chairman belonged to Brookes's, would fall upon us. A vast number of people followed
me, crying out "It is Mrs. Fox; none but Mr. Fox's wife would dare to come into Covent Garden
in a chair; she is going to canvas in the dark."' H. More's Memoirs, i. 316. Horace Walpole
wrote on April 11:--'In truth Mr. Fox has all the popularity in Westminster.' Letters, viii. 469.

[863] See post, under June 9, 1784, where Johnson describes Fox as 'a man who has divided the
kingdom with Caesar.'

[864] See ante, p. 111.

[865] See ante, ii. 162.

[866] Boswell twice speaks of W. G. Hamilton as 'an eminent friend' of Johnson. He was not
Boswell's friend. (Ante, p. 111, and post, under Dec. 20, 1784.) But Boswell does not here
say 'a friend of ours.' By 'eminent friend' Burke is generally meant, and he, possibly, is
meant here. Boswell, it is true, speaks of his 'orderly and amiable domestic habits' (ante,
iii. 378); but then Boswell mentions the person here 'as a virtuous man.' If Burke is meant,
Johnson's suspicions would seem to be groundless.

[867] See ante, p. 168, where Johnson 'wonders why he should have any enemies.'

[868] After all, I cannot but be of opinion, that as Mr. Langton was seriously requested by
Dr. Johnson to mention what appeared to him erroneous in the character of his friend, he was
bound, as an honest man, to intimate what he really thought, which he certainly did in the
most delicate manner; so that Johnson himself, when in a quiet frame of mind, was pleased with
it. The texts suggested are now before me, and I shall quote a few of them. 'Blessed are the
meek, for they shall inherit the earth.' Mat. v. 5.--'I therefore, the prisoner of the LORD,
beseech you, that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called; with all lowliness
and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love.' Ephes. v. [iv.] 1, 2.--'And
above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness.' Col. iii. 4, 5. BOSWELL.
Johnson, in The Rambler, No. 28, had almost foretold what would happen. 'For escaping these
and a thousand other deceits many expedients have been proposed. Some have recommended the
frequent consultation of a wise friend, admitted to intimacy and encouraged by sincerity. But
this appears a remedy by no means adapted to general use; for, in order to secure the virtue
of one, it pre-supposes more virtue in two than will generally be found. In the first, such
a desire of rectitude and amendment as may incline him to hear his own accusation from the
mouth of him whom he esteems, and by whom therefore he will always hope that his faults are
not discovered; and in the second, such zeal and honesty as will make him content for his friend's
advantage to lose his kindness.'

[869] Member for Dumfries.

[870] Malone points out that the passage is not in Bacon, but in Boyle, and that it is quoted
in Johnson's Dictionary (in the later editions only), under cross-bow. It is as follows:--'Testimony
is like the shot of a long-bow, which owes its efficacy to the force of the shooter; argument
is like the shot of the cross-bow, equally forcible whether discharged by a giant or a dwarf.'
See Smollett's Works, ed. 1797, i. cliv, for a somewhat fuller account by Dr. Moore of what
was said by Johnson this evening.

[871] The Peace made by that very able statesman, the Earl of Shelburne, now Marquis of Lansdown,
which may fairly be considered as the foundation of all the prosperity of Great Britain since
that time. BOSWELL. In the winter of 1782-83, preliminary treaties of peace were made with
the United States, France, and Spain; and a suspension of arms with Holland. The Ode is made
up of such lines as the following:--

     'While meek philosophy explores
     Creation's vast stupendous round,
     With piercing gaze sublime she soars,
     And bursts the system's distant bound.'

Gent. Mag.; 1783. p. 245.

[872] In the first edition of my Work, the epithet amiable was given. I was sorry to be obliged
to strike it out; but I could not in justice suffer it to remain, after this young lady had
not only written in favour of the savage Anarchy with which France has been visited, but had
(as I have been informed by good authority), walked, without horrour, over the ground at the
Thuillieries, when it was strewed with the naked bodies of the faithful Swiss Guards, who were
barbarously massacred for having bravely defended, against a crew of ruffians, the Monarch
whom they had taken an oath to defend. From Dr. Johnson she could now expect not endearment
but repulsion. BOSWELL.

[873] Rogers (Table-Talk, p. 50) described her as 'a very fascinating person,' and narrated
a curious anecdote which he heard from her about the Reign of Terror.

[874] This year, forming as it did exactly a quarter of a century since Handel's death, and
a complete century since his birth, was sought, says the Gent. Mag. (1784, p. 457) as the first
public periodical occasion for bringing together musical performers in England. Dr. Burney
writes (Ann. Reg. 1784, p. 331):--'Foreigners must have been astonished at so numerous a band,
moving in such exact measure, without the assistance of a Coryphaeus to beat time. Rousseau
says that "the more time is beaten, the less it is kept."' There were upwards of 500 performers.

[875] See ante, iii. 242.

[876] Lady Wronghead, whispers Mrs. Motherly, pointing to Myrtilla.

'Mrs. Motherly. Only a niece of mine, Madam, that lives with me; she will be proud to give
your Ladyship any assistance in her power.

'Lady Wronghead. A pretty sort of a young woman--Jenny, you two must be acquainted.

'Jenny. O Mamma! I am never strange in a strange place. Salutes Myrtilla.' The Provoked Husband;
or, A Journey to London, act ii. sc. 1, by Vanbrugh and Colley Gibber. It was not therefore
Squire Richard whom Johnson quoted, but his sister.

[877] See ante, p. 191.

[878] See Macaulay's Essays, ed. 1843, i. 353, for his application of this story.

[879] She too was learned; for according to Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 292) she had learnt Hebrew,
merely to be useful to her husband.

[880]

     'This day then let us not be told,
      That you are sick, and I grown old;
      Nor think on our approaching ills,
      And talk of spectacles and pills.'

Swift's Lines on Stella's Birthday, 1726-27. Works, ed. 1803, xi. 21.

[881] Dr. Newton, in his Account of his own Life, after animadverting upon Mr. Gibbon's History,
says, 'Dr. Johnson's Lives of the Poets afforded more amusement; but candour was much hurt
and offended at the malevolence that predominates in every part. Some passages, it must be
allowed, are judicious and well written, but make not sufficient compensation for so much spleen
and ill humour. Never was any biographer more sparing of his praise, or more abundant in his
censures. He seemingly delights more in exposing blemishes, than in recommending beauties;
slightly passes over excellencies, enlarges upon imperfections, and not content with his own
severe reflections, revives old scandal, and produces large quotations from the forgotten works
of former criticks. His reputation was so high in the republick of letters, that it wanted
not to be raised upon the ruins of others. But these Essays, instead of raising a higher idea
than was before entertained of his understanding, have certainly given the world a worse opinion
of his temper.--The Bishop was therefore the more surprized and concerned for his townsman,
for he respected him not only for his genius and learning, but valued him much more for the
more amiable part of his character, his humanity and charity, his morality and religion.' The
last sentence we may consider as the general and permanent opinion of Bishop Newton; the remarks
which precede it must, by all who have read Johnson's admirable work, be imputed to the disgust
and peevishness of old age. I wish they had not appeared, and that Dr. Johnson had not been
provoked by them to express himself, not in respectful terms, of a Prelate, whose labours were
certainly of considerable advantage both to literature and religion. BOSWELL.

[882] Newton was born Jan. 1, 1704, and was made Bishop in 1761. In his Account of his own
Life (p. 65) he says:--'He was no great gainer by his preferment; for he was obliged to give
up the prebend of Westminster, the precentorship of York, the lecturership of St. George's,
Hanover Square, and the genteel office of sub-almoner.' He died in 1781. His Works were published
in 1782. Gibbon, defending himself against an attack by Newton, says (Misc. Works, l. 24l):--'The
old man should not have indulged his zeal in a false and feeble charge against the historian,
who,' &c.

[883] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd ed. p. 371 [Oct. 25]. BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 216.

[884] The Rev. Mr. Agutter [post, under Dec. 20] has favoured me with a note of a dialogue
between Mr. John Henderson [post, June 12] and Dr. Johnson on this topick, as related by Mr.
Henderson, and it is evidently so authentick that I shall here insert it:--HENDERSON. 'What
do you think, Sir, of William Law?' JOHNSON. 'William Law, Sir, wrote the best piece of Parenetick
Divinity; but William Law was no reasoner.' HENDERSON. 'Jeremy Collier, Sir?' JOHNSON. 'Jeremy
Collier fought without a rival, and therefore could not claim the victory.' Mr. Henderson mentioned
Kenn and Kettlewell; but some objections were made: at last he said, 'But, Sir, what do you
think of Leslie?' JOHNSON. 'Charles Leslie I had forgotten. Leslie was a reasoner, and a reasoner
who was not to be reasoned against.' BOSWELL.

For the effect of Law's 'Parenetick Divinity' on Johnson, see ante, i. 68. 'I am surprised,'
writes Macaulay, 'that Johnson should have pronounced Law no reasoner. Law did indeed fall
into great errors; but they were errors against which logic affords no security. In mere dialectical
skill he had very few superiors.' Macaulay's England, ed. 1874, v. 81, note. Jeremy Collier's
attack on the play-writers Johnson describes in his Life of Congreve (Works, viii. 28), and
continues:--'Nothing now remained for the poets but to resist or fly. Dryden's conscience,
or his prudence, angry as he was, withheld him from the conflict: Congreve and Vanbrugh attempted
answers.' Of Leslie, Lord Bolingbroke thus writes (Works, in. 45):--'Let neither the polemical
skill of Leslie, nor the antique erudition of Bedford, persuade us to put on again those old
shackles of false law, false reason, and false gospel, which were forged before the Revolution,
and broken to pieces by it.' Leslie is described by Macaulay, History of England, v. 81.

[885] Burnet (History of his own Time, ed. 1818, iv. 303) in 1712 speaks of Hickes and Brett
as being both in the Church, but as shewing 'an inclination towards Popery.' Hickes, he says,
was at the head of the Jacobite party. See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 25.

[886] 'Only five of the seven were non-jurors; and anybody but Boswell would have known that
a man may resist arbitrary power, and yet not be a good reasoner. Nay, the resistance which
Sancroft and the other nonjuring Bishops offered to arbitrary power, while they continued to
hold the doctrine of non-resistance, is the most decisive proof that they were incapable of
reasoning.' Macaulay's England, ed. 1874, v. 81.

[887] See ante, ii. 321, for Johnson's estimate of the Nonjurors, and i. 429 for his Jacobitism.

[888] Savage's Works, ed. 1777, ii. 28.

[889] See ante, p. 46.

[890] See Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 77.

[891] I have inserted the stanza as Johnson repeated it from memory; but I have since found
the poem itself, in The Foundling Hospital for Wit, printed at London, 1749. It is as follows:--

     'EPIGRAM, occasioned by a religious dispute at Bath.

     'On Reason, Faith, and Mystery high,
        Two wits harangue the table;
      B----y believes he knows not why.
        N---- swears 'tis all a fable.
      Peace, coxcombs, peach, and both agree,
        N----, kiss they empty brother:
      Religion laughs at foes like thee,
        And dreads a friend like t'other.'

BOSWELL. The disputants are supposed to have been Beau Nash and Bentley, the son of the doctor,
and the friend of Walpole. Croker. John Wesley in his Journal, i. 186, tells how he once silences
Nash.

[892] See ante, ii. 105.

[893] Waller, in his Divine Poesie, canto first, has the same thought finely expressed:--

     'The Church triumphant, and the Church below,
      In songs of praise their present union show;
      Their joys are full; our expectation long,
      In life we differ, but we join in song;
      Angels and we assisted by this art,
      May sing together, though we dwell apart.'

      BOSWELL.

[894] See Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 45.

[895] In the original, flee.

[896] The sermon thus opens:--'That there are angels and spirits good and bad; that at the
head of these last there is ONE more considerable and malignant than the rest, who, in the
form, or under the name of a serpent, was deeply concerned in the fall of man, and whose head,
as the prophetick language is, the son of man was one day to bruise; that this evil spirit,
though that prophecy be in part completed, has not yet received his death's wound, but is still
permitted, for ends unsearchable to us, and in ways which we cannot particularly explain, to
have a certain degree of power in this world hostile to its virtue and happiness, and sometimes
exerted with too much success; all this is so clear from Scripture, that no believer, unless
he be first of all spoiled by philosophy and vain deceit [Colossians, ii. 8], can possibly
entertain a doubt of it.'

Having treated of possessions, his Lordship says, 'As I have no authority to affirm that there
are now any such, so neither may I presume to say with confidence, that there are not any.'

'But then with regard to the influence of evil spirits at this day upon the SOULS of men, I
shall take leave to be a great deal more peremptory.--(Then, having stated the various proofs,
he adds,) All this, I say, is so manifest to every one who reads the Scriptures, that, if we
respect their authority, the question concerning the reality of the demoniack influence upon
the minds of men is clearly determined.'

Let it be remembered, that these are not the words of an antiquated or obscure enthusiast,
but of a learned and polite Prelate now alive; and were spoken, not to a vulgar congregation,
but to the Honourable Society of Lincoln's-Inn. His Lordship in this sermon explains the words,
'deliver us from evil,' in the Lord's Prayer, as signifying a request to be protected from
'the evil one,' that is the Devil. This is well illustrated in a short but excellent Commentary
by my late worthy friend, the Reverend Dr. Lort, of whom it may truly be said, Multis ille
bonis flebilis occidit. It is remarkable that Waller, in his Reflections on the several Petitions,
in that sacred form of devotion, has understood this in the same sense;--

     'Guard us from all temptations of the FOE.'

BOSWELL. Dr. Lort is often mentioned in Horace Walpole's Letters. Multis ille quidem flebilis
occidit,' comes from Horace, Odes, i. xxiv. 9, translated by Francis,--

     How did the good, the virtuous mourn.'

For Dr. Hurd see ante, p. 189.

[897] There is a curious anecdote of this physician in Gent. Mag. 1772, p. 467.

[898] See ante, p. 166. He may have taken the more to Fox, as he had taken to Beauclerk (ante,
i. 248), on account of his descent from Charles II. Fox was the great-great-grandson of that
king. His Christian names recall his Stuart ancestry.

[899] Horace Walpole wrote on April 11 (Letters, viii. 469):--'In truth Mr. Fox has all the
popularity in Westminster; and, indeed, is so amiable and winning that, could he have stood
in person all over England, I question whether he would not have carried the Parliament.' Hannah
More (Memoirs, i. 316) in the same month wrote:--'Unluckily for my principles I met Fox canvassing
the other day, and he looked so sensible and agreeable, that if I had not turned my eyes another
way, I believe it would have been all over with me.' See ante, p. 279.

[900] Dr. John Radcliffe, who died in 1714, left by his will, among other great benefactions
to the University of Oxford, '£600 yearly to two persons, when they are Masters of Arts and
entered on the physic-line, for their maintenance for the space of ten years; the half of which
time at least they are to travel in parts beyond sea for their better improvement.' Radcliffe's
Life and Will, p. 123. Pope mentions them in his Imitations of Horace, Epistles, ii. i. 183:--

     'E'en Radcliffe's doctors travel first to France,
      Nor dare to practise till they've learned to dance.'

[901] What risks were run even by inoculation is shewn in two of Dr. Warton's letters. He wrote
to his brother:--'This moment the dear children have all been inoculated, never persons behaved
better, no whimpering at all, I hope in God for success, but cannot avoid being in much anxiety.'
A few days later he wrote:--'You may imagine I never passed such a day as this in my life!
grieved to death myself for the loss of so sweet a child, but forced to stifle my feelings
as much as possible for the sake of my poor wife. She does not, however, hit on, or dwell on,
that most cutting circumstance of all, poor Nanny's dying, as it were by our own means, tho'
well intended indeed.' Wooll's Warton, i. 289. Dr. Franklin (Memoirs, i. 155), on the other
hand, bitterly regretted that he had not had a child inoculated, whom he lost by small-pox.

[902] See post, before Nov. 17, and under Dec. 9, 1784.

[903] 'I am the vilest of sinners and the worst of men.' Taylor's Works (ed. 1864), iii. 31.
'The best men deserve not eternal life, and I who am the worst may have it given me.' Ib. p.
431--'He that hath lived worst, even I.' Ib. vii. 241. 'Behold me the meanest of thy creatures.'
Ib. p. 296.

[904] 'You may fairly look upon yourself to be the greatest sinner that you know in the world.
First, because you know more of the folly of your own heart than you do of other people's;
and can charge yourself with various sins that you only know of yourself, and cannot be sure
that other people are guilty of them.' Law's Serious Call, chap. 23.

[905] 1 Timothy, i. 15.

[906] See post, v. 68, note 4.

[907] 'Be careful thou dost not speak a lie in thy prayers, which though not observed is frequently
practised by careless persons, especially in the forms of confession, affirming things which
they have not thought, professing sorrow which is not, making a vow they mean not.' Taylor's
Works, ed. 1865, vii. 622.

[908] Reynolds wrote:--'As in Johnson's writings not a line can be found which a saint would
wish to blot, so in his life he would never suffer the least immorality or indecency of conversation,
[or anything] contrary to virtue or piety to proceed without a severe check, which no elevation
of rank exempted them from.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 458. See ante, iii. 41.

[909] No doubt Mr. Langton.

[910] Dr. Sheridan tells how Swift overheard a Captain Hamilton say to a gentleman at whose
house he had arrived 'that he was very sorry he had chosen that time for his visit. "Why so?"
"Because I hear Dean Swift is with you. He is a great scholar, a wit; a plain country squire
will have but a bad time of it in his company, and I don't like to be laughed at." Swift then
stepped up and said, "Pray, Captain Hamilton, do you know how to say yes or no properly?" "Yes,
I think I have understanding enough for that." "Then give me your hand--depend upon it, you
and I will agree very well."' 'The Captain told me,' continues Sheridan, 'that he never passed
two months so pleasantly in his life.' Swift's Works, ed. 1803, ii. 104.

[911] Gibbon wrote on Feb. 21, 1772 (Misc. Works, ii. 78):--'To day the House of Commons was
employed in a very odd way. Tommy Townshend moved that the sermon of Dr. Nowell, who preached
before the House on the 30th of January (id est, before the Speaker and four members), should
be burnt by the common hangman, as containing arbitrary, Tory, high-flown doctrines. The House
was nearly agreeing to the motion, till they recollected that they had already thanked the
preacher for his excellent discourse, and ordered it to be printed.'

[912]

     'Although it be not shined upon.'
            Hudibras, iii. 2, 175.

[913] According to Mr. Croker, this was the Rev. Henry Bate, of the Morning Post, who in 1784
took the name of Dudley, was created a baronet in 1815, and died in 1824. Horace Walpole wrote
on Nov. 13, 1776 (Letters, vi. 39l):--'Yesterday I heard drums and trumpets in Piccadilly:
I looked out of the window and saw a procession with streamers flying. At first I thought it
a press-gang, but seeing the corps so well-drest, like Hussars, in yellow with blue waistcoats
and breeches, and high caps, I concluded it was some new body of our allies, or a regiment
newly raised, and with new regimentals for distinction. I was not totally mistaken, for the
Colonel is a new ally. In short, this was a procession set forth by Mr. Bate, Lord Lyttelton's
chaplain, and author of the old Morning Post, and meant as an appeal to the town against his
antagonist, the new one.' In June, 1781, Bate was sentenced to a year's imprisonment 'for an
atrocious libel on the Duke of Richmond. He was the worst of all the scandalous libellers that
had appeared both on private persons as well as public. His life was dissolute, and he had
fought more than one duel. Yet Lord Sandwich had procured for him a good Crown living, and
he was believed to be pensioned by the Court.' Walpole's Journal of the Reign of George III,
ii. 464.

[914] See ante, ii. 339, and iii. 265.

[915] Three days earlier, in the debate on the Westminster Scrutiny, Fox accused 'a person
of great rank in this House'--Pitt I believe--'of adding pertness and personal contumely to
every species of rash and inconsiderate violence.' Parl. Hist. xxiv. 924. Pitt, in reply, classed
Fox among 'political apostates,' ib. p. 929. Burke, the same evening, 'sat down saying, "he
little minded the ill-treatment of a parcel of boys."' When he was called to order, he said:--'When
he used the term "a parcel of boys," he meant to apply it to the ministry, who, he conceived,
were insulting him with their triumph; a triumph which grey hairs ought to be allowed the privilege
of expressing displeasure at, when it was founded on the rash exultation of mere boys.' Ib.
p. 939. Pitt, Prime-Minister though he was, in the spring of the same year, was called to order
by the Speaker, for charging a member with using 'language the most false, the most malicious,
and the most slanderous.' Ib. p. 763.

[916] Epistles to Mr. Pope, ii. 165.

[917] See an account of him, in a sermon by the Reverend Mr. Agutter. BOSWELL. This sermon
was published in 1788. In Hannah More's Memoirs (i. 217), Henderson is described as 'a mixture
of great sense, which discovered uncommon parts and learning, with a tincture of nonsense of
the most extravagant kind. He believes in witches and apparitions, as well as in judicial astronomy.'
Mrs. Kennicott writes (ib. p. 220):--'I think if Dr. Johnson had the shaking him about, he
would shake out his nonsense, and set his sense a-working. 'He never got out into the world,
says Dr. Hall, the Master of Pembroke College, having died in College in 1788.

[918] This was the second Lord Lyttelton, commonly known as 'the wicked Lord Lyttelton.' Fox
described him to Rogers as 'a very bad man--downright wicked.' Rogers's Table Talk, p. 95.
He died Nov. 27, 1779. Horace Walpole (Letters, vii. 292) wrote to Mason on Dec. 11 of that
year:--'If you can send us any stories of ghosts out of the North, they will be very welcome.
Lord Lyttelton's vision has revived the taste; though it seems a little odd that an apparition
should despair of being able to get access to his Lordship's bed in the shape of a young woman,
without being forced to use the disguise of a robin-red-breast.' In the Gent. Mag. 1815, i.
597, and 1816, ii. 421, accounts are given of this vision. In the latter account it is said
that 'he saw a bird fluttering, and afterwards a woman appeared in white apparel, and said,
"Prepare to die; you will not exist three days."' Mrs. Piozzi also wrote a full account of
it. Hayward's Piozzi, i. 332.

[919] See ante, ii. 150, and iii. 298, note 1.

[920] See ante, p. 278. &c.' The Rambler, No. 110. In a blank leaf in the book in which Johnson
kept his diary of his journey in Wales is written in his own hand, 'Faith in some proportion
to Fear.' Duppa's Johnson's Diary of a Journey &c., p. 157. See ante, iii. 199.

[922] He wrote to Mrs. Thrale on March 20:--'Write to me no more about dying with a grace;
when you feel what I have felt in approaching eternity--in fear of soon hearing the sentence
of which there is no revocation, you will know the folly.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 354. Of him
it might have been said in Cowper's words:--

     'Scripture is still a trumpet to his fears.'

The Task: The Winter Morning Walk, 1. 611. See ante, iii. 294.

[923] The Reverend Mr. Ralph Churton, Fellow of Brazen-Nose College, Oxford, has favoured me
with the following remarks on my Work, which he is pleased to say, 'I have hitherto extolled,
and cordially approve.'

'The chief part of what I have to observe is contained in the following transcript from a letter
to a friend, which, with his concurrence, I copied for this purpose; and, whatever may be the
merit or justness of the remarks, you may be sure that being written to a most intimate friend,
without any intention that they ever should go further, they are the genuine and undisguised
sentiments of the writer:--

'Jan. 6, 1792.

'Last week, I was reading the second volume of Boswell's Johnson, with increasing esteem for
the worthy authour, and increasing veneration of the wonderful and excellent man who is the
subject of it. The writer throws in, now and then, very properly some serious religious reflections;
but there is one remark, in my mind an obvious and just one, which I think he has not made,
that Johnson's "morbid melancholy," and constitutional infirmities, were intended by Providence,
like St. Paul's thorn in the flesh, to check intellectual conceit and arrogance; which the
consciousness of his extraordinary talents, awake as he was to the voice of praise, might otherwise
have generated in a very culpable degree. Another observation strikes me, that in consequence
of the same natural indisposition, and habitual sickliness, (for he says he scarcely passed
one day without pain after his twentieth year,) he considered and represented human life, as
a scene of much greater misery than is generally experienced. There may be persons bowed down
with affliction all their days; and there are those, no doubt, whose iniquities rob them of
rest; but neither calamities nor crimes, I hope and believe, do so much and so generally abound,
as to justify the dark picture of life which Johnson's imagination designed, and his strong
pencil delineated. This I am sure, the colouring is far too gloomy for what I have experienced,
though as far as I can remember, I have had more sickness (I do not say more severe, but only
more in quantity,) than falls to the lot of most people. But then daily debility and occasional
sickness were far overbalanced by intervenient days, and, perhaps, weeks void of pain, and
overflowing with comfort. So that in short, to return to the subject, human life, as far as
I can perceive from experience or observation, is not that state of constant wretchedness which
Johnson always insisted it was; which misrepresentation, (for such it surely is,) his Biographer
has not corrected, I suppose, because, unhappily, he has himself a large portion of melancholy
in his constitution, and fancied the portrait a faithful copy of life.'

The learned writer then proceeds thus in his letter to me:--

'I have conversed with some sensible men on this subject, who all seem to entertain the same
sentiments respecting life with those which are expressed or implied in the foregoing paragraph.
It might be added that as the representation here spoken of, appears not consistent with fact
and experience, so neither does it seem to be countenanced by Scripture. There is, perhaps,
no part of the sacred volume which at first sight promises so much to lend its sanction to
these dark and desponding notions as the book of Ecclesiastes, which so often, and so emphatically,
proclaims the vanity of things sublunary. But the design of this whole book, (as it has been
justly observed,) is not to put us out of conceit with life, but to cure our vain expectations
of a compleat and perfect happiness in this world; to convince us, that there is no such thing
to be found in mere external enjoyments;--and to teach us to seek for happiness in the practice
of virtue, in the knowledge and love of God, and in the hopes of a better life. For this is
the application of all; Let us hear, &c. xii. 13. Not only his duty, but his happiness too;
For GOD, &c. ver. 14.--See Sherlock on Providence, p. 299.

'The New Testament tells us, indeed, and most truly, that "sufficient unto the day is the evil
thereof;" and, therefore, wisely forbids us to increase our burden by forebodings of sorrows;
but I think it no where says that even our ordinary afflictions are not consistent with a very
considerable degree of positive comfort and satisfaction. And, accordingly, one whose sufferings
as well as merits were conspicuous, assures us, that in proportion "as the sufferings of Christ
abounded in them, so their consolation also abounded by Christ." 2 Cor. i. 5. It is needless
to cite, as indeed it would be endless even to refer to, the multitude of passages in both
Testaments holding out, in the strongest language, promises of blessings, even in this world,
to the faithful servants of GOD. I will only refer to St. Luke, xviii. 29, 30, and 1 Tim. iv. 8.

'Upon the whole, setting aside instances of great and lasting bodily pain, of minds peculiarly
oppressed by melancholy, and of severe temporal calamities, from which extraordinary cases
we surely should not form our estimate of the general tenour and complexion of life; excluding
these from the account, I am convinced that as well the gracious constitution of things which
Providence has ordained, as the declarations of Scripture and the actual experience of individuals,
authorize the sincere Christian to hope that his humble and constant endeavours to perform
his duty, checquered as the best life is with many failings, will be crowned with a greater
degree of present peace, serenity, and comfort, than he could reasonably permit himself to
expect, if he measured his views and judged of life from the opinion of Dr. Johnson, often
and energetically expressed in the Memoirs of him, without any animadversion or censure by
his ingenious Biographer. If he himself, upon reviewing the subject, shall see the matter in
this light, he will, in an octavo edition, which is eagerly expected, make such additional
remarks or correction as he shall judge fit; lest the impressions which these discouraging
passages may leave on the reader's mind, should in any degree hinder what otherwise the whole
spirit and energy of the work tends, and, I hope, successfully, to promote,--pure morality
and true religion.'

Though I have, in some degree, obviated any reflections against my illustrious friend's dark
views of life, when considering, in the course of this Work, his Rambler [ante, i. 213] and
his Rasselas [ante, i. 343], I am obliged to Mr. Churton for complying with my request of his
permission to insert his Remarks, being conscious of the weight of what he judiciously suggests
as to the melancholy in my own constitution. His more pleasing views of life, I hope, are just.
Valeant quantum valere possunt.

Mr. Churton concludes his letter to me in these words:--'Once, and only once, I had the satisfaction
of seeing your illustrious friend; and as I feel a particular regard for all whom he distinguished
with his esteem and friendship, so I derive much pleasure from reflecting that I once beheld,
though but transiently near our College gate, one whose works will for ever delight and improve
the world, who was a sincere and zealous son of the Church of England, an honour to his country,
and an ornament to human nature.'

His letter was accompanied with a present from himself of his Sermons at the Bampton Lecture,
and from his friend, Dr. Townson, the venerable Rector of Malpas, in Cheshire, of his Discourses
on the Gospels, together with the following extract of a letter from that excellent person,
who is now gone to receive the reward of his labours:--'Mr. Boswell is not only very entertaining
in his works, but they are so replete with moral and religious sentiments, without an instance,
as far as I know, of a contrary tendency, that I cannot help having a great esteem for him;
and if you think such a trifle as a copy of the Discourses, ex dono authoris, would be acceptable
to him, I should be happy to give him this small testimony of my regard.'

Such spontaneous testimonies of approbation from such men, without any personal acquaintance
with me, are truly valuable and encouraging. BOSWELL.

[924]

     'Tout se plaint, tout gémit en cherchant le bien-etre;
      Nul ne voudrait mourir, nul ne voudrait renaitre.'

Voltaire, Le désastre de Lisbonne. Works, ed. 1819, x. 124. 125. Yet Dr. Franklin, whose life
overlapped Johnson's at both ends, said:-'I should have no objection to go over the same life
from its beginning to the end, requesting only the advantage authors have of correcting in
a second edition the faults of its first. So would I also wish to change some incidents of
it for others more favourable Notwithstanding, if this condition was denied, I should still
accept the offer of re-commencing the same life.' Franklin's Memoirs, i. 2.

[925] Mackintosh thus sums up this question:--'The truth is, that endless fallacies must arise
from the attempt to appreciate by retrospect human life, of which the enjoyments depend on
hope.' Life of Mackintosh, ii. 160. See ante, ii. 350.

[926] In the lines on Levett. Ante, p. 137.

[927] AURENGZEBE, act iv. sc. 1. BOSWELL. According to Dr. Maxwell (ante, ii. 124), Johnson
frequently quoted the fourth couplet of these lines. Boswell does not give the last--

     'I'm tired with waiting for this chemic gold
     Which fools us young, and beggars us when old.'

[928] Johnson, speaking of the companions of his college days, said:-- 'It was bitterness which
they mistook for frolick.' Ante, i. 73.

[929]

     '--to thee I call
     But with no friendly voice, and add thy name
     O Sun, to tell thee how I hate thy beams.'

Milton's Paradise Lost, iv. 35.

[930] Yet there is no doubt that a man may appear very gay in company who is sad at heart.
His merriment is like the sound of drums and trumpets in a battle, to drown the groans of the
wounded and dying. BOSWELL.

[931] Mme. D'Arblay (Memoirs of Dr. Burney, ii. 103) tells how Johnson was one day invited
to her father's house at the request of Mr. Greville, 'the finest gentleman about town,' as
she earlier described him (ib. i. 25), who desired to make his acquaintance. This 'superb'
gentleman was afraid to begin to speak. 'Assuming his most supercilious air of distant superiority
he planted himself, immovable as a noble statue, upon the hearth, as if a stranger to the whole
set.' Johnson, who 'never spoke till he was spoken to' (ante, in. 307)--this habit the Burneys
did not as yet know--'became completely absorbed in silent rumination; very unexpectedly, however,
he shewed himself alive to what surrounded him, by one of those singular starts of vision,
that made him seem at times, though purblind to things in common, gifted with an eye of instinct
for espying any action that he thought merited reprehension; for all at once, looking fixedly
on Mr. Greville, who without much self-denial, the night being very cold, kept his station
before the chimney-piece, he exclaimed:--"If it were not for depriving the ladies of the fire,
I should like to stand upon the hearth myself." A smile gleamed upon every face at this pointed
speech. Mr. Greville tried to smile himself, though faintly and scoffingly. He tried also to
hold his post; and though for two or three minutes he disdained to move, the awkwardness of
a general pause impelled him ere long to glide back to his chair; but he rang the bell with
force as he passed it to order his carriage.'

[932] Page 139. BOSWELL.

[933] On this same day Miss Adams wrote to a friend:--'Dr. Johnson, tho' not in good health,
is in general very talkative and infinitely agreeable and entertaining.' Pemb. Coll. MSS.

[934] Johnson said 'Milton was a Phidias, &c.' Ante, p. 99, note 1. In his Life of Milton (Works,
vii. 119) he writes:--'Milton never learnt the art of doing little things with grace; he overlooked
the milder excellence of suavity and softness; he was a Lion that had no skill in dandling
the kid.'

     ['Sporting the lion ramped, and in his paw
       Dandled the kid.'

       Paradise Lost, iv. 343.]

[935] Cardinal Newman (History of my Religious Opinions, ed. 1865, p. 361) remarks on this:--'As
to Johnson's case of a murderer asking you which way a man had gone, I should have anticipated
that, had such a difficulty happened to him, his first act would have been to knock the man
down, and to call out for the police; and next, if he was worsted in the conflict, he would
not have given the ruffian the information he asked, at whatever risk to himself. I think he
would have let himself be killed first. I do not think that he would have told a lie.'

[936] See ante, iii. 376.

[937] Book ii. 1. 142.

[938] The annotator calls them 'amiable verses.' BOSWELL. The annotators of the Dunciad were
Pope himself and Dr. Arbuthnot. Johnson's Works, viii. 280.

[939] Boswell was at this time corresponding with Miss Seward. See post, June 25.

[940] By John Dyer. Ante, ii. 453.

[941] Lewis's Verses addressed to Pope were first published in a Collection of Pieces on occasion
of The Dunciad, 8vo., 1732. They do not appear in Lewis's own Miscellany, printed in 1726.--Grongar
Hill was first printed in Savage's Miscellanies as an Ode, and was reprinted in the same year
in Lewis's Miscellany, in the form it now bears.

In his Miscellanies, 1726, the beautiful poem,--'Away, let nought to love displeasing,'--reprinted
in Percy's Reliques, vol. i. book iii. No. 13, first appeared. MALONE.

[942] See ante, p. 58.

[943] See ante, i. 71, and ii. 226.

[944] Captain Cook's third voyage. The first two volumes by Captain Cook; the last by Captain King.

[945] See ante, ii. 73, 228, 248; iii. 49.

[946]

     '--quae mollissima fandi Tempora.'
     '--time wherein the word May softliest be said.'

    MORRIS. Virgil, Aeneids, iv. 293.

[947] See ante, i. 71.

[948] See ante, i. 203, note 6.

[949] Boswell began to eat dinners in the Inner Temple so early as 1775. Ante, ii. 377, note
1. He was not called till Hilary Term, 1786. Rogers's Boswelliana, p. 143.

[950] Mr. (afterwards Sir) William Jones wrote two years earlier (Life, p. 268):--'Whether
it be a wise part to live uncomfortably in order to die wealthy, is another question; but this
I know by experience, and have heard old practitioners make the same observation, that a lawyer
who is in earnest must be chained to his chambers and the bar for ten or twelve years together.'

[951] Johnson's Prologue at the opening of Drury Lane Theatre. Works,
 i. 23.

[952] According to Mr. Seward, who published this account in his Anecdotes, ii. 83, it was
Mr. Langton's great-grandfather who drew it up.

[953] 'My Lord said that his rule for his, health was to be temperate and keep himself warm.
He never made breakfasts, but used in the morning to drink a glass of some sort of ale. That
he went to bed at nine, and rose between six and seven, allowing himself a good refreshment
for his sleep. That the law will admit of no rival, nothing to go even with it; but that sometimes
one may for diversion read in the Latin historians of England, Hoveden and Matthew Paris, &c.
But after it is conquered, it will admit of other studies. He said, a little law, a good tongue,
and a good memory, would fit a man for the Chancery.' Seward's Anecdotes, ii. 92.

[954] Wednesday was the 16th

[955] See ante, i. 41.

[956] Letters to Mrs. Thrale, vol. ii. p. 372. BOSWELL.

[957] See ante/, i. 155.

[958] The recommendation in this list of so many histories little agrees 'with the fierce and
boisterous contempt of ignorance' with which, according to Lord Macaulay, Johnson spoke of
history. Macaulay's Essays, ed. 1843, i. 403.

[959] See ante, iii. 12.

[960] Northcote's account of Reynolds's table suits the description of this 'gentleman's mode
of living.' 'A table prepared for seven or eight was often compelled to contain fifteen or
sixteen.' There was a 'deficiency of knives and forks, plates and glasses. The attendance was
in the same style.' There were 'two or three undisciplined domestics. The host left every one
at perfect liberty to scramble for himself.' 'Rags' is certainly a strong word to apply to
any of the company; but then strong words were what Johnson used. Northcote mentions 'the mixture
of company.' Northcote's Reynolds, ii. 94-6. See ante, iii. 375, note 2.

[961] The Mayor of Windsor. Rogers's Boswelliana, p. 211.

[962] The passage occurs in Brooke's Earl of Essex(1761) at the close of the first act, where
Queen Elizabeth says:

               'I shall henceforth seek
     For other lights to truth; for righteous monarchs,
     Justly to judge, with their own eyes should see;
     To rule o'er freemen should themselves be free.'
       Notes and Queries, 5th S. viii. 456.

The play was acted at Drury Lane Theatre, old Mr. Sheridan taking the chief part. He it was
who, in admiration, repeated the passage to Johnson which provoked the parody. Murphy's Garrick,
p. 234.

[963] 'Letters to Mrs. Thrale, vol. ii. p. 284. BOSWELL. In a second letter (ib. p. 347) he
says:--'Cator has a rough, manly independent understanding, and does not spoil it by complaisance.'
Miss Burney accuses him of emptiness, verbosity and pomposity, all of which she describes in
an amusing manner. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 47.

[964] 'All general reflections upon nations and societies are the trite, thread-bare jokes
of those who set up for wit without having any, and so have recourse to common-place.' Chesterfield's
Letters, i. 231.

[965] See vol. ii. p. 126. BOSWELL

[966] '"That may be so," replied the lady, "for ought I know, but they are above my comprehension."
"I an't obliged to find you comprehension, Madam, curse me," cried he,' Roderick Random, ch.
53. '"I protest," cried Moses, "I don't rightly comprehend the force of your reasoning." "O,
Sir," cried the Squire, "I am your most humble servant, I find you want me to furnish you with
argument and intellects too."' Vicar of Wakefield, ch. 7.

[967] In the first edition, 'as the Honourable Horace Walpole is often called;' in the second
edition, 'as Horace, now Earl of Orford, &c.' Walpole succeeded to the title in Dec. 1791.
In answer to congratulations he wrote (Letters, ix. 364):--'What has happened destroys my tranquillity....
Surely no man of seventy-four, unless superannuated, can have the smallest pleasure in sitting
at home in his own room, as I almost always do, and being called by a new name.' He died March
2, 1797.

[968] In The Rambler, No. 83, a character of a virtuoso is given which in many ways suits Walpole:--'It
is never without grief that I find a man capable of ratiocination or invention enlisting himself
in this secondary class of learning; for when he has once discovered a method of gratifying
his desire of eminence by expense rather than by labour, and known the sweets of a life blest
at once with the ease of idleness and the reputation of knowledge, he will not easily be brought
to undergo again the toil of thinking, or leave his toys and trinkets for arguments and principles.'

[969] Walpole says:--'I do not think I ever was in a room with Johnson six times in my days.'
Letters, ix. 319. 'The first time, I think, was at the Royal Academy. Sir Joshua said, "Let
me present Dr. Goldsmith to you;" he did. "Now I will present Dr. Johnson to you." "No," said
I, "Sir Joshua; for Dr. Goldsmith, pass--but you shall not present Dr. Johnson to me."' Journal
&c. of Miss Berry, i. 305. In his Journal of the Reign of George III, he speaks of Johnson
as 'one of the venal champions of the Court,' 'a renegade' (i. 430); 'a brute,' 'an old decrepit
hireling' (ib. p. 472); and as 'one of the subordinate crew whom to name is to stigmatize'
(ib. ii. 5). In his Memoirs of the Reign of George III, iv. 297, he says:--'With a lumber of
learning and some strong parts Johnson was an odious and mean character. His manners were sordid,
supercilious, and brutal; his style ridiculously bombastic and vicious, and, in one word, with
all the pedantry he had all the gigantic littleness of a country schoolmaster.'

[970] See ante, i. 367.

[971] On May 26, 1791, Walpole wrote of Boswell's Life of Johnson (Letters ix. 3l9):--'I expected
amongst the excommunicated to find myself, but am very gently treated. I never would be in
the least acquainted with Johnson; or, as Boswell calls it, I had not a just value for him;
which the biographer imputes to my resentment for the Doctor's putting bad arguments (purposely
out of Jacobitism) into the speeches which he wrote fifty years ago for my father in the Gentleman's
Magazine; which I did not read then, or ever knew Johnson wrote till Johnson died.' Johnson
said of these Debates:--'I saved appearances tolerably well; but I took care that the Whig
dogs should not have the best of it.' Ante, i. 504. 'Lord Holland said that whenever Boswell
came into a company where Horace Walpole was, Walpole would throw back his head, purse up his
mouth very significantly, and not speak a word while Boswell remained.' Autobiographical Recollections
of C. R. Leslie, i. 155. I could certainly have written the two former, but not the latter.'
See ante, iv. 113.

[973] The title given by Bishop Pearson to his collection of Hales's Writings is the Golden
Remains of the Ever Memorable John Hales of Eaton College, &c. It was published in 1659.

[974] I Henry IV, act ii. sc. 4. 'Sir James Mackintosh remembers that, while spending the Christmas
of 1793 at Beaconsfield, Mr. Burke said to him, 'Johnson showed more powers of mind in company
than in his writings; but he argued only for victory; and when he had neither a paradox to
defend, nor an antagonist to crush, he would preface his assent with "Why, no, Sir."' CROKER.
Croker's Boswell, p. 768.

[975]

     Search then the ruling passion: There alone
     The wild are constant, and the cunning known;
     The fool consistent, and the false sincere;
     Priests, princes, women, no dissemblers here.'
       Pope, Moral Essays, i. 174.

'The publick pleasures of far the greater part of mankind are counterfeit.' The Idler, No. 18.

[976] Ante, ii. 241, and iii. 325.

[977] Boswell refers to Cicero's Treatise on Famous Orators.

[978] Boswell here falls into a mistake. About harvest-time in 1766, there were corn-riots
owing to the dearness of bread. By the Act of the 15th of Charles II, corn, when under a certain
price, might be legally exported. On Sept. 26, 1766, before this price had been reached, the
Crown issued a proclamation to prohibit the exportation of grain. When parliament met in November,
a bill of indemnity was brought in for those concerned in the late embargo. 'The necessity
of the embargo was universally allowed;' it was the exercise by the Crown of a power of dispensing
with the laws that was attacked. Some of the ministers who, out of office, 'had set up as the
patrons of liberty,' were made the object 'of many sarcasms on the beaten subject of occasional
patriotism.' Ann. Reg. x. 39-48, and Dicey's Law of the Constitution, p. 50.

[979] St. Mark, ii. 9.

[980] Anecdotes, p. 43. BOSWELL. The passage is from the Speech on Conciliation with the Colonies,
March 22, 1775. Payne's Burke, i. 173. The image of the angel and Lord Bathurst was thus, according
to Mrs. Piozzi, parodied by Johnson:--'Suppose, Mr. Speaker, that to Wharton, or to Marlborough,
or to any of the eminent Whigs of the last age, the devil had, not with great impropriety,
consented to appear.' See ante, iii. 326, where Johnson said 'the first Whig was the Devil.'

[981] Boswell was stung by what Mrs. Piozzi wrote when recording this parody. She said that
she had begged Johnson's leave to write it down directly. 'A trick,' she continues, 'which
I have seen played on common occasions of sitting steadily [? stealthily] down at the other
end of the room to write at the moment what should be said in company, either by Dr. Johnson
or to him, I never practised myself, nor approved of in another. There is something so ill-bred,
and so inclining to treachery in this conduct, that, were it commonly adopted, all confidence
would soon be exiled from society.' See post, under June 30, 1784, where Boswell refers to
this passage.

[982]

     'Who'er offends, at some unlucky time
      Slides into verse, and hitches in a rhyme.'

Pope, Imitations of Horace, 2 Satires, i. 78.

[983] On March 14, 1770, in a debate on the licentiousness of the press, Townshend joined together
Johnson and Shebbeare. Burke, who followed him, said nothing about Johnson. Fitzherbert, speaking
of Johnson as 'my friend,' defended him as 'a pattern of morality.' Cavendish Debates, i.514.
On Feb. 16, 1774, when Fox drew attention to a 'vile libel' signed A South Briton, Townshend
said 'Dr. Shebbeare and Dr. Johnson have been pensioned, but this wretched South Briton is
to be prosecuted.' It was Fox, and not Burke, who on this occasion defended Johnson. Parl.
Hist. xvii.1054. As Goldsmith was writing Retaliation at the very time that this second attack
was made, it is very likely that it was the occasion, of the change in the line.

[984] In the original yet.

[985]

     'Sis pecore et multa dives tellure licebit,
        Tibique Pactolus fluat.'
     'Though wide thy land extends, and large thy fold,
      Though rivers roll for thee their purest gold.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Epodes, xv. 19.

[986] See Macaulay's Essays, ed. 1843, i. 404, for Macaulay's appropriation and amplification
of this passage.

[987] See ante, ii. 168.

[988] Mr. Croker suggests the Rev. Martin Sherlock, an Irish Clergyman, 'who published in 1781
his own travels under the title of Letters of an English Traveller translated from the French.'
Croker's Boswell, p. 770. Mason writes of him as 'Mister, or Monsieur, or Signor Sherlock,
for I am told he is both [sic] French, English, and Italian in print.' Walpole's Letters, viii.
202. I think, however, that Dr. Thomas Campbell is meant. His Philosophical Survey of the South
of Ireland Boswell calls 'a very entertaining book, which has, however, one fault;--that it
assumes the fictitious character of an Englishman.' Ante, ii. 339.

[989] See ante, iv. 49.

[990] This anecdote is not in the first two editions.

[991] See ante, in. 369.

[992] 'I have heard,' says Hawkins (Life, p. 409), 'that in many instances, and in some with
tears in his eyes, he has apologised to those whom he had offended by contradiction or roughness
of behaviour.' See ante, ii. 109, and 256, note 1.

[993] Johnson (Works, viii. 131) describes Savage's 'superstitious regard to the correction
of his sheets ... The intrusion or omission of a comma was sufficient to discompose him, and
he would lament an errour of a single letter as a heavy calamity.'

[994] Compositor in the Printing-house means, the person who adjusts the types in the order
in which they are to stand for printing; and arranges what is called the form, from which an
impression is taken. BOSWELL.

[995] This circumstance therefore alluded to in Mr. Courtenay's Poetical Character of him is
strictly true. My informer was Mrs. Desmoulins, who lived many years in Dr. Johnson's house.
BOSWELL. The following are Mr. Courtenay's lines:--

     'Soft-eyed compassion with a look benign,
      His fervent vows he offered at thy shrine;
      To guilt, to woe, the sacred debt was paid,
      And helpless females blessed his pious aid;
      Snatched from disease, and want's abandoned crew,
      Despair and anguish from their victims flew;
      Hope's soothing balm into their bosoms stole,
      And tears of penitence restored the soul.'

[996] The Cross Readings were said to be formed 'by reading two columns of a newspaper together
onwards,' whereby 'the strangest connections were brought about,' such as:--

     'This morning the Right Hon. the Speaker
     was convicted of keeping a disorderly house.
     Whereas the said barn was set on fire by
     an incendiary letter dropped early in the morning.
     By order of the Commissioners for Paving
     An infallible remedy for the stone and gravel.
     The sword of state was carried
     before Sir John Fielding and committed to Newgate.'

The New Foundling Hospital for Wit, i. 129. According to Northcote (Life of Reynolds, i. 217),
'Dr. Goldsmith declared, in the heat of his admiration of these Cross Readings, it would have
given him more pleasure to have been the author of them than of all the works he had ever published
of his own.' Horace Walpole (Letters, v. 30) writes:-- 'Have you seen that delightful paper
composed out of scraps in the newspapers? I laughed till I cried. I mean the paper that says:--

"This day his Majesty will go in great state to fifteen notorious common prostitutes."'

[997] One of these gentlemen was probably Mr. Musgrave (ante, ii. 343, note 2), who, says Mrs.
Piozzi (Anec. p. 295), when 'once he was singularly warm about Johnson's writing the lives
of our famous prose authors, getting up and entreating him to set about the work immediately,
he coldly replied, "Sit down, Sir."' Miss Burney says that 'the incense he paid Dr. Johnson
by his solemn manner of listening, by the earnest reverence with which he eyed him, and by
a theatric start of admiration every time he spoke, joined to the Doctor's utter insensibility
to all these tokens, made me find infinite difficulty in keeping my countenance.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, ii. 85. The other gentleman was perhaps Dr. Wharton. Ante, ii. 41, note 1.

[998] Probably Dr. Beattie. The number of letters in his name agrees with the asterisks given
a few lines below. Ante, iii. 339, note 1, and post, p. 330.

[999] Johnson, in his Dictionary, defines congé d'élire as the king's permission royal to a
dean and chapter in time of vacation, to choose a bishop. When Dr. Hampden was made Bishop
of Hereford in 1848, the Dean resisted the appointment. H. C. Robinson records, on the authority
of the Bishop's Secretary (Diary, iii. 311), that 'at the actual confirmation in Bow Church
the scene was quite ludicrous. After the judge had told the opposers that he could not hear
them, the citation for opposers to come forward was repeated, at which the people present laughed
out, as at a play.'

[1000] This has been printed in other publications, 'fall to the ground.' But Johnson himself
gave me the true expression which he had used as above; meaning that the recommendation left
as little choice in the one case as the other. BOSWELL. One of the 'other publications is Hawkins's
edition of Johnson's Works. See in it vol. xi. p. 216.

[1001] They are published in vol. xi. of Hawkins's edition of Johnson's Works. 1787, and are
often quoted in my notes. It should be remembered that Steevens is not trustworthy. See ante,
iii. 281, and iv. 178.

[1002] See ante, ii. 96.

[1003] See ante, p. iii.

[1004] She Stoops to Conquer was first acted on March 15, 1773. The King of Sardinia had died
on Feb. 20. Gent. Mag. 1773, pp. 149, 151.

[1005] Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 170) describes how, in 1780, she went to one of Mrs. Ord's
assemblies at a time when 'the mourning for some foreign Wilhelmina Jaquelina was not over.
Every human creature was in deep mourning, and I, poor I, all gorgeous in scarlet. Even Jacobite
Johnson was in deep mourning.'

[1006] In the tenth edition of the Rambler, published in 1784, the entry is still found:--'Milton,
Mr. John, remarks on his versification.' In like manner we find:--'Shakspeare, Mr. William,
his eminent success in tragi-comedy;' 'Spenser, Mr. Edmund, some imitations of his diction
censured;' 'Cowley, Mr. Abraham, a passage in his writing illustrated.'

[1007] See ante, p. 116.

[1008] See ante, iii. 425, note 3.

[1009] Hawkins (Life, p. 571) writes:--'The plan for Johnson's visiting the Continent became
so well known, that, as a lady then resident at Rome afterwards informed me, his arrival was
anxiously expected throughout Italy.'

[1010] Edward Lord Thurlow. BOSWELL.

[1011] See ante, p. 179.

[1012] In 1778.

[1013] 'With Lord Thurlow, while he was at the bar, Johnson was well acquainted. He said to
Mr. Murphy twenty years ago, "Thurlow is a man of such vigour of mind that I never knew I was
to meet him, but--I was going to tell a falsehood; I was going to say I was afraid of him,
and that would not be true, for I was never afraid of any man--but I never knew that I was
to meet Thurlow, but I knew I had something to encounter."' Monthly Review for 1787, lxxvi.
382. Murphy, no doubt, was the writer. Lord Campbell (Lives of the Chancellors, ed. 1846, v.621)
quotes from 'the Diary of a distinguished political character' an account of a meeting between
Thurlow and Horne Tooke, in 1801. 'Tooke evidently came forward for a display, and as I considered
his powers of conversation as surpassing those of any person I had ever seen (in point of skill
and dexterity, and if necessary in lying), so I took for granted old grumbling Thurlow would
be obliged to lower his top-sail to him--but it seemed as if the very look and voice of Thurlow
scared him out of his senses from the first moment. So Tooke tried to recruit himself by wine,
and, though not generally a drinker, was very drunk, but all would not do.'

[1014] It is strange that Sir John Hawkins should have related that the application was made
by Sir Joshua Reynolds, when he could so easily have been informed of the truth by inquiring
of Sir Joshua. Sir John's carelessness to ascertain facts is very remarkable. BOSWELL.

[1015] There is something dreadful in the thought of the old man quietly going on with his
daily life within a few hundred yards of this shocking scene of slaughter, this 'legal massacre,'
to use his own words (ante, p. 188, note 3). England had a kind of Reign of Terror of its own;
little thought of at the time or remembered since. Twenty-four men were sentenced to death
at the Old Bailey Sessions that ended on April 28. On June 16 nine of these had the sentence
commuted; the rest were hanged this day. Among these men was not a single murderer. Twelve
of them had committed burglary, two a street robbery, and one had personated another man's
name, with intent to receive his wages. Ann. Reg. xxvii, 193, and Gent. Mag. liv. 379, 474.
The Gent. Mag. recording the sentences, remarks:--'Convicts under sentence of death in Newgate
and the gaols throughout the kingdom increase so fast, that, were they all to be executed,
England would soon be marked among the nations as the Bloody Country.' In the spring assizes
the returns are given for ten towns. There were 88 capital convictions, of which 21 were at
Winchester. Ib. 224. In the summer assizes and at the Old Bailey Sessions for July there were
149 capital convictions. At Maidstone a man on being sentenced 'gave three loud cheers, upon
which the judge gave strict orders for his being chained to the floor of the dungeon.' Ib.
pp. 311, 633. The hangman was to grow busier yet. This increase in the number of capital punishments
was attributed by Romilly in great part to Madan's Thoughts on Executive Justice; 'a small
tract, in which, by a mistaken application of the maxim "that the certainty of punishment is
more efficacious than its severity for the prevention of crimes," he absurdly insisted on the
expediency of rigidly enforcing, in every instance, our penal code, sanguinary and barbarous
as it was. In 1783, the year before the book was published, there were executed in London only
51 malefactors; in 1785, the year after the book was published, there were executed 97; and
it was recently after the publication of the book that was exhibited a spectacle unseen in
London for a long course of years before, the execution of nearly 20 criminals at a time.'
Life of Romilly, i. 89. Madan's Tract was published in the winter of 1784-5. Boswell's fondness
for seeing executions is shewn, ante, ii. 93.

[1016] See ante, ii. 82, 104; iii. 290; and v. 7l.

[1017] A friend of mine happened to be passing by a field congregation in the environs of London,
when a Methodist preacher quoted this passage with triumph. BOSWELL. On Dec. 26, 1784, John
Wesley preached the condemned criminals' sermon to forty-seven who were under sentence of death.
He records:--'The power of the Lord was eminently present, and most of the prisoners were in
tears. A few days after, twenty of them died at once, five of whom died in peace. I could not
but greatly approve of the spirit and behaviour of Mr. Villette, the Ordinary; and I rejoiced
to hear that it was the same on all similar occasions.' Wesley's Journal, ed. 1827, iv. 287.

[1018] I trust that THE CITY OF LONDON, now happily in unison with THE COURT, will have the
justice and generosity to obtain preferment for this Reverend Gentleman, now a worthy old servant
of that magnificent Corporation. BOSWELL. In like manner, Boswell in 1768 praised the Rev.
Mr. Moore, Mr. Villette's predecessor. 'Mr. Moore, the Ordinary of Newgate, discharged his
duty with much earnestness and a fervour for which I and all around me esteemed and loved him.
Mr. Moore seems worthy of his office, which, when justly considered, is a very important one.'
London Mag. 1783, p. 204. For the quarrel between the City and the Court, see ante, iii. 201.

[1019] See ante, i. 387.

[1020] Knox in Winter Evenings, No. xi. (Works, ii. 348), attacks Johnson's biographers for
lowering his character by publishing his private conversation. 'Biography,' he complains, 'is
every day descending from its dignity.' See ante, i. 222, note 1.

[1021] Piozzi Letters, ii. 256.

[1022] Johnson wrote on April 15:--'I am still very weak, though my appetite is keen and my
digestion potent. ... I now think and consult to-day what I shall eat to-morrow. This disease
likewise will, I hope, be cured.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 362. Beattie, who dined with Johnson
on June 27, wrote:--'Wine, I think, would do him good, but he cannot be prevailed on to drink
it. He has, however, a voracious appetite for food. I verily believe that on Sunday last he
ate as much to dinner as I have done in all for these ten days past.' Forbes's Beattie, ed.
1824, p. 315. It was said that Beattie latterly indulged somewhat too much in wine. Ib. p. 432.

[1023] Horace Walpole wrote in April 1750 (Letters, ii. Ante, ii. 403. Dr. J. H. Burton writes
of her in his Life of Hume, ii. 213:--'The wits must praise her bad poetry if they frequented
her house. "Elle était d'une figure aimable," says Grimm, "elle est bonne femme; elle est riche;
elle pouvait fixer chez elle les gens d'esprit et de bonne compagnie, sans les mettre dans
l'embarras de lui parler avec peu de sincérité de sa Colombiade ou de ses Amazones."'

[1024] It is the sea round the South Pole that she describes in her Elegy (not Ode). The description
begins:--

     'While o'er the deep in many a dreadful form,
      The giant Danger howls along the storm,
      Furling the iron sails with numbed hands,
      Firm on the deck the great Adventurer stands;
      Round glitt'ring mountains hear the billows rave,
      And the vast ruin thunder on the wave.'

In the Gent. Mag. 1793, p. 197, were given extracts abusive of Johnson from some foolish letters
that passed between Miss Seward and Hayley, a poet her equal in feebleness. Boswell, in his
Corrections and Additions to the First Edition (ante, i.10), corrected an error into which
he had been led by Miss Seward (ante, i.92, note 2). She, in the Gent. Mag. for 1793, p.875,
defended herself and attacked him. His reply is found on p.1009. He says:--'As my book was
to be a real history, and not a novel, it was necessary to suppress all erroneous particulars,
however entertaining.' (Ante, ii 467, note 4.) He continues:--'So far from having any hostile
disposition towards this Lady, I have, in my Life of Dr. Johnson...quoted a compliment paid
by him to one of her poetical pieces; and I have withheld his opinion of herself, thinking
that she might not like it. I am afraid it has reached her by some other means; and thus we
may account for various attacks by her on her venerable townsman since his decease...What are
we to think of the scraps of letters between her and Mr. Hayley, impotently attempting to undermine
the noble pedestal on which the publick opinion has placed Dr. Johnson?'

[1025] See ante, i.265, and iv. 174.

[1026] 'Johnson said he had once seen Mr. Stanhope at Dodsley's shop, and was so much struck
with his awkward manners and appearance that he could not help asking Mr. Dodsley who he was.'
Johnson's Works, (1787) xi.209.

[1027] Chesterfield was Secretary of State from Nov. 1746 to Feb. 1748. His letters to his
son extend from 1739 to 1768.

[1028] Foote had taken off Lord Chesterfield in The Cozeners. Mrs. Aircastle trains her son
Toby in the graces. She says to her husband:--'Nothing but grace! I wish you would read some
late Posthumous Letters; you would then know the true value of grace.' Act ii. sc. 2.

[1029] See ante, p.78, note 1.

[1030] See a pamphlet entitled Remarks on the Characters of the Court of Queen Anne, included
in Swift's Works, ed. 1803, vi. 163.

[1031] Carleton, according to the Memoirs, made his first service in the navy in 1672--seventeen
years before the siege of Derry. There is no mention of this siege in the book.

[1032] 'He had obtained, by his long service, some knowledge of the practic part of an engineer.'
Preface to the Memoirs.

[1033] Nearly 200 pages in Bohn's edition. See ante, i. 71, for Johnson's rapid reading.

[1034] Lord Mahon (War of the Succession in Spain, Appendix, p. 131) proves that a Captain
Carleton really served. 'It is not impossible,' he says, 'that the MS. may have been intrusted
to De Foe for the purpose of correction or revision...The Memoirs are most strongly marked
with internal proofs of authenticity.' Lockhart (Life of Scott, iii. 84) says:--'It seems to
be now pretty generally believed that Carleton's Memoirs were among the numberless fabrications
of De Foe; but in this case (if the fact indeed be so), as in that of his Cavalier, he no doubt
had before him the rude journal of some officer.' Dr. Burton (Reign of Queen Anne ii. 173)
says that MSS. in the British Museum disprove 'the possibility of De Foe's authorship.'

[1035] Lord Chesterfield (Letters, ii. 109) writing to his son on Nov. 29, 1748, says of Mr.
Eliot:--'Imitate that application of his, which has made him know all thoroughly, and to the
bottom. He does not content himself with the surface of knowledge; but works in the mine for
it, knowing that it lies deep.'

[1036] The Houghton Collection was sold in 1779 by the third Earl of Orford, to the Empress
of Russia for £40,555. (Walpole's Letters, vii. 227, note 1.)

Horace Walpole wrote on Aug. 4 of that year (ib. p. 235):--'Well! adieu to Houghton! about
its mad master I shall never trouble myself more. From the moment he came into possession,
he has undermined every act of my father that was within his reach, but, having none of that
great man's sense or virtues, he could only lay wild hands on lands and houses; and since he
has stript Houghton of its glory, I do not care a straw what he does with the stone or the acres.'

[1037] This museum at Alkerington near Manchester is described in the Gent. Mag. 1773, p.219.
A proposal was made in Parliament to buy it for the British Museum. Ib. 1783, p. 919. On July
8, 1784, a bill enabling Lever to dispose of it by lottery passed the House of Commons. Ib.
1784, p.705.

[1038] Johnson defines intuition as sight of anything; immediate knowledge; and sagacity as
quickness of scent; acuteness of discovery.

[1039] In the first edition it stands 'A gentleman' and below instead of Mr. ----, Mr. ----.
In the second edition Mr. ---- becomes Mr. ----. In the third edition young is added. Young
Mr. Burke is probably meant. As it stood in the second edition it might have been thought that
Edmund Burke was the gentleman; the more so as Johnson often denied his want of wit.

[1040] Hamlet, act i. sc. 2.

[1041] See ante, i. 372, note 1.

[1042] Windham says (Diary, p. 34) that when Dr. Brocklesby made this offer 'Johnson pressed
his hands and said, "God bless you through Jesus Christ, but I will take no money but from
my sovereign." This, if I mistake not, was told the King through West.' Dr. Brocklesby wrote
to Burke, on July 2, 1788, to make him 'an instant present of £1000, which,' he continues,
'for years past, by will, I had destined as a testimony of my regard on my decease.' Burke,
accepting the present, said:--'I shall never be ashamed to have it known, that I am obliged
to one who never can be capable of converting his kindness into a burthen.' Burke's Corres.
iii.78. See ante, p. 263, for the just praise bestowed by Johnson on physicians in his Life
of Garth.

[1043] See ante, ii. 194.

[1044] Letters to Mrs. Thrale, vol. ii. p 375. BOSWELL.

[1045] Rogers (Table-Talk, p. 45) describes him as 'a very handsome, gentlemanly, and amiable
person. Mme. D'Arblay tells how one evening at Dr. Burney's home, when Signor Piozzi was playing
on the piano, 'Mrs. Thrale stealing on tip-toe behind him, ludicrously began imitating him.
Dr. Burney whispered to her, "Because, Madam, you have no ear yourself for music, will you
destroy the attention of all who in that one point are otherwise gifted?"' Mrs. Thrale took
this rebuke very well. This was her first meeting with Piozzi. It was in Mr. Thrale's life-time.
Memoirs of Dr. Burney, ii. 110.

[1046] Dr. Johnson's letter to Sir John Hawkins, Life, p. 570. BOSWELL. The last time Miss
Burney saw Johnson, not three weeks before his death, he told her that the day before he had
seen Miss Thrale. 'I then said:--"Do you ever, Sir, hear from mother?" "No," cried he, "nor
write to her. I drive her quite from my mind. If I meet with one of her letters, I burn it
instantly. I have burnt all I can find. I never speak of her, and I desire never to hear of
her more. I drive her, as I said, wholly from my mind."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 328.

[1047] See ante, i. 493.

[1048] Anec. p. 293. BOSWELL.

[1049] 'The saying of the old philosopher who observes, "that he who wants least is most like
the gods who want nothing," was a favourite sentence with Dr. Johnson, who on his own part
required less attendance, sick or well, than ever I saw any human creature. Conversation was
all he required to make him happy.' Piozzi's Anec. p.275. Miss Burney's account of the life
at Streatham is generally very cheerful. I suspect that the irksome confinement described by
Mrs. Piozzi was not felt by her till she became attached to Mr. Piozzi. This caused a great
change in her behaviour and much unhappiness. (Ante, p. 138, note 4.) He at times treated her
harshly. (Ante, p. 160, note.) Two passages in her letters to Miss Burney shew a want of feeling
in her for a man who for nearly twenty years had been to her almost as a father. On Feb. 18,
1784, she writes:--'Johnson is in a sad way doubtless; yet he may still with care last another
twelve-month, and every week's existence is gain to him, who, like good Hezekiah, wearies Heaven
with entreaties for life. I wrote him a very serious letter the other day.' On March 23 she
writes:--' My going to London would be a dreadful expense, and bring on a thousand inquiries
and inconveniences--visits to Johnson and from Cator.' It is likely that in other letters there
were like passages, but these letters Miss Burney 'for cogent reasons destroyed.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, ii. 305, 7, 8.

[1050]
     'Bless'd paper credit! last and best supply!
      That lends corruption lighter wings to fly!'

Pope, Moral Essays, iii. 39.

[1051] Who has been pleased to furnish me with his remarks. BOSWELL. No doubt Malone, who says,
however: 'On the whole the publick is indebted to her for her lively, though very inaccurate
and artful, account of Dr. Johnson.' Prior's Malone, p. 364.

[1052] See ante, iii. 81.

[1053] Anec. p. 183. BOSWELL.

[1054] Hannah More. She, with her sisters, had kept a boarding-school at Bristol.

[1055] She first saw Johnson in June, 1774. According to her Memoirs (i. 48) he met her 'with
good humour in his countenance, and continued in the same pleasant humour the whole of the
evening.' She called on him in Bolt Court. One of her sisters writes:--'Miss Reynolds told
the doctor of all our rapturous exclamations [about him] on the road. He shook his scientific
head at Hannah, and said, "She was a silly thing."' Ib. p. 49. 'He afterwards mentioned to
Miss Reynolds how much he had been touched with the enthusiasm of the young authoress, which
was evidently genuine and unaffected.' Ib. p. 50. She met him again in the spring of 1775.
Her sister writes:--'The old genius was extremely jocular, and the young one very pleasant.
They indeed tried which could "pepper the highest" [Goldsmith's Retaliation], and it is not
clear to me that he was really the highest seasoner.' Ib. p. 54. From the Mores we know nothing
of his reproof. He had himself said of 'a literary lady'--no doubt Hannah More--'I was obliged
to speak to Miss Reynolds to let her know that I desired she would not flatter me so much.'
Ante, iii.293. Miss Burney records a story she had from Mrs. Thrale, 'which,' she continues,
'exceeds, I think, in its severity all the severe things I have yet heard of Dr. Johnson's
saying. When Miss More was introduced to him, she began singing his praise in the warmest manner.
For some time he heard her with that quietness which a long use of praise has given him: she
then redoubled her strokes, till at length he turned suddenly to her, with a stern and angry
countenance, and said, "Madam, before you flatter a man so grossly to his face, you should
consider whether or not your flattery is worth his having."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i.103.
Shortly afterwards Miss Burney records (ib. p. 121) that Mrs. Thrale said to him:--'We have
told her what you said to Miss More, and I believe that makes her afraid.' He replied:--'Well,
and if she was to serve me as Miss More did, I should say the same thing to her.' We have therefore
three reports of what he said--one from Mrs. Thrale indirectly, one from her directly, and
the third from Malone. However severe the reproof was, the Mores do not seem to have been much
touched by it. At all events they enjoyed the meeting with Johnson, and Hannah More needed
a second reproof that was conveyed to her through Miss Reynolds.

[1056] Anec. p. 202. BOSWELL.

[1057] See ante, i. 40, 68, 92, 415, 481; ii. 188, 194; iii. 229; and post, v. 245, note 2.

[1058] Anec. p. 44. BOSWELL. See ante, p. 318, note 1, where I quote the passage.

[1059] Ib. p. 23. BOSWELL.

[1060] Ib. p. 45. Mr. Hayward says:--'She kept a copious diary and notebook called Thraliana
from 1776 to 1809. It is now,' [1861] he continues, 'in the possession of Mr. Salusbury, who
deems it of too private and delicate a character to be submitted to strangers, but has kindly
supplied me with some curious passages from it.' Hayward's Piozzi, i. 6.

[1061] Ib. p. 51 [192]. BOSWELL.

[1062] Anec. p. 193 [51]. BOSWELL.

[1063] Johnson, says Murphy, (Life, p. 96) 'felt not only kindness, but zeal and ardour for
his friends.' 'Who,' he asks (ib. p. 144), 'was more sincere and steady in his friendships?'
'Numbers,' he says (ib. p. 146), 'still remember with gratitude the friendship which he shewed
to them with unaltered affection for a number of years.'

[1064] See ante, ii. 285, and iii. 440.

[1065] Johnson's Works, i. 152, 3.

[1066] In vol. ii. of the Piozzi Letters some of these letters are given.

[1067] He gave Miss Thrale lessons in Latin. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 243 and 427.

[1068] Anec. p. 258. BOSWELL.

[1069] George James Cholmondeley, Esq., grandson of George, third Earl of Cholmondeley, and
one of the Commissioners of Excise; a gentleman respected for his abilities, and elegance of
manners. BOSWELL. When I spoke to him a few years before his death upon this point, I found
him very sore at being made the topic of such a debate, and very unwilling to remember any
thing about either the offence or the apology. CROKER.

[1070] Letters to Mrs. Thrale, vol. ii. p. 12. BOSWELL.

[1071] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec.p. 258) lays the scene of this anecdote 'in some distant province,
either Shropshire or Derbyshire, I believe.' Johnson drove through these counties with the
Thrales in 1774 (ante, ii. 285). If the passage in the letter refers to the same anecdote--and
Mrs. Piozzi does not, so far as I know, deny it--more than three years passed before Johnson
was told of his rudeness. Baretti, in a MS. note on Piozzi Letters, ii. 12, says that the story
was 'Mr. Cholmondeley's running away from his creditors.' In this he is certainly wrong; yet
if Mr. Cholmondeley had run away, and others gave the same explanation of the passage, his
soreness is easily accounted for.

[1072] Anec. p. 23. BOSWELL.

[1073] Ib. p. 302. BOSWELL.

[1074] Rasselas, chap, xvii

[1075] Paradise Lost, iv. 639.

[1076] Anec. p. 63. BOSWELL.

[1077] 'Johnson one day, on seeing an old terrier lie asleep by the fire-side at Streatham,
said, "Presto, you are, if possible, a more lazy dog that I am."' Johnson's Works, ed. 1787,
xi. 203.

[1078] Upon mentioning this to my friend Mr. Wilkes, he, with his usual readiness, pleasantly
matched it with the following sentimental anecdote. He was invited by a young man of fashion
at Paris, to sup with him and a lady, who had been for some time his mistress, but with whom
he was going to part. He said to Mr. Wilkes that he really felt very much for her, she was
in such distress; and that he meant to make her a present of two hundred louis-d'ors. Mr. Wilkes
observed the behaviour of Mademoiselle, who sighed indeed very piteously, and assumed every
pathetick air of grief; but eat no less than three French pigeons, which are as large as English
partridges, besides other things. Mr. Wilkes whispered the gentleman, 'We often say in England,
Excessive sorrow is exceeding dry, but I never heard Excessive sorrow is exceeding hungry.
Perhaps one hundred will do.' The gentleman took the hint. BOSWELL.

[1079] See post, p. 367, for the passage omitted.

[1080] Sir Joshua Reynolds, on account of the excellence both of the sentiment and expression
of this letter, took a copy of it which he shewed to some of his friends; one of whom, who
admired it, being allowed to peruse it leisurely at home, a copy was made, and found its way
into the newspapers and magazines. It was transcribed with some inaccuracies. I print it from
the original draft in Johnson's own hand-writing. BOSWELL. Hawkins writes (Life, p. 574):--'Johnson,
upon being told that it was in print, exclaimed in my hearing, "I am betrayed," but soon after
forgot, as he was ever ready to do all real or supposed injuries, the error that made the publication
possible.'

[1081] Cowper wrote of Thurlow:--'I know well the Chancellor's benevolence of heart, and how
much he is misunderstood by the world. When he was young he would do the kindest things, and
at an expense to himself which at that time he could ill afford, and he would do them too in
the most secret manner.' Southey's Cowper, vii. 128. Yet Thurlow did not keep his promise made
to Cowper when they were fellow-clerks in an attorney's office. 'Thurlow, I am nobody, and
shall be always nobody, and you will be chancellor. You shall provide for me when you are.'
He smiled, and replied, 'I surely will.' Ib. i. 41. When Cowper sent him the first volume of
his poems, 'he thought it not worth his while,' the poet writes, 'to return me any answer,
or to take the least notice of my present.' Ib. xv. 176. Mr. (afterwards Sir) W. Jones, in
two letters to Burke, speaks of Thurlow as the [Greek: thaerion] (beast). 'I heard last night,
with surprise and affliction,' he wrote on Feb. 15, 1783,'that the [Greek: thaerion] was to
continue in office. Now I can assure you from my own positive knowledge (and I know him well),
that although he hates our species in general, yet his particular hatred is directed against
none more virulently than against Lord North, and the friends of the late excellent Marquis.'
Burke's Corres. ii. 488, and iii. 10.

[1082] 'Scarcely had Pitt obtained possession of unbounded power when an aged writer of the
highest eminence, who had made very little by his writings, and who was sinking into the grave
under a load of infirmities and sorrows, wanted five or six hundred pounds to enable him, during
the winter or two which might still remain to him, to draw his breath more easily in the soft
climate of Italy. Not a farthing was to be obtained; and before Christmas the author of the
English Dictionary and of the Lives of the Poets had gasped his last in the river fog and coal
smoke of Fleet-street.' Macaulay's Writings and Speeches, ed. 1871, p. 413. Just before Macaulay,
with monstrous exaggeration, says that Gibbon, 'forced by poverty to leave his country, completed
his immortal work on the shores of Lake Leman.' This poverty of Gibbon would have been 'splendour'
to Johnson. Debrett's Royal Kalendar, for 1795 (p. 88), shews that there were twelve Lords
of the King's Bedchamber receiving each £1000 a year, and fourteen Grooms of the Bedchamber
receiving each, £500 a year. As Burns was made a gauger, so Johnson might have been made a
Lord, or at least a Groom of the Bedchamber. It is not certain that Pitt heard of the application
for an increased pension. Mr. Croker quotes from Thurlow's letter to Reynolds of Nov. 18, 1784:--'It
was impossible for me to take the King's pleasure on the suggestion I presumed to move. I am
an untoward solicitor.' Whether he consulted Pitt cannot be known. Mr. Croker notices a curious
obliteration in this letter. The Chancellor had written:--'It would have suited the purpose
better, if nobody had heard of it, except Dr. Johnson, you and J. Boswell.' Boswell has been
erased--'artfully' too, says--Mr. Croker-so that 'the sentence appears to run, "except Dr.
Johnson, you, and I."' Mr. Croker, with his usual suspiciousness, suspects 'an uncandid trick.'
But it is very likely that Thurlow himself made the obliteration, regardless of grammar. He
might easily have thought that it would have been better still had Boswell not been in the secret.

[1083] See ante, iii. 176.

[1084] On June 11 Boswell and Johnson were together (ante, p. 293). The date perhaps should
be July 11. The letter that follows next is dated July 12.

[1085] 'Even in our flight from vice some virtue lies.' FRANCIS. Horace, i. Epistles, I. 41.

[1086] See vol. ii. p. 258. BOSWELL.

[1087] Mrs. Johnson died in 1752. See ante, i. 241, note 2.

[1088] See Appendix.

[1089] Printed in his Works [i. 150]. BOSWELL. See ante, i. 241, note 2.

[1090] He wrote to Mr. Ryland on the same day:--'Be pleased to let the whole be done with privacy
that I may elude the vigilance of the papers.' Notes and Queries, 5th S. vii. 381.

[1091] Boileau, Art Poétique, chant iv.

[1092] This is probably an errour either of the transcript or the press. Removes seems to be
the word intended. MALONE.

[1093] See ante, i. 332, and post p. 360.

[1094] See ante, p. 267.

[1095] I have heard Dr. Johnson protest that he never had quite as much as he wished of wall-fruit,
except once in his life.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 103.

[1096] At the Essex Head, Essex-street. BOSWELL.

[1097] Juvenal, Satires, x. 8:--

     'Fate wings with every wish the afflictive dart.'

Vanity of Human Wishes, l. 15.

[1098] Mr. Allen, the printer. BOSWELL. See ante, iii. 141, 269.

[1099] It was on this day that he wrote the prayer given below (p. 370) in which is found that
striking line--'this world where much is to be done and little to be known.'

[1100] His letter to Dr. Heberden (Croker's Boswell, p. 789) shews that he had gone with Dr.
Brocklesby to the last Academy dinner, when, as he boasted, 'he went up all the stairs to the
pictures without stopping to rest or to breathe.' Ante, p. 270, note 2.

[1101]

     Quid te exempta levat spinis de pluribus una?
     'Pluck out one thorn to mitigate thy pain,
     What boots it while so many more remain?'

FRANCIS. Horace, 2 Epistles, ii. 212.

[1102] See ante, iii. 4, note 2.

[1103] Sir Joshua's physician. He is mentioned by Goldsmith in his verses to the Miss Hornecks.
Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 149.

[1104] How much balloons filled people's minds at this time is shewn by such entries as the
following in Windham's Diary:-'Feb 7, 1784. Did not rise till past nine; from that time till
eleven, did little more than indulge in idle reveries about balloons.' p. 3. 'July 20. The
greater part of the time, till now, one o'clock, spent in foolish reveries about balloons.'
p. 12. Horace Walpole wrote on Sept. 30 (Letters, viii. 505):--'I cannot fill my paper, as
the newspapers do, with air-balloons; which though ranked with the invention of navigation,
appear to me as childish as the flying kites of school-boys.' 'Do not write about the balloon,'
wrote Johnson to Reynolds (post, p. 368), 'whatever else you may think proper to say.' In the
beginning of the year he had written:--'It is very seriously true that a subscription of £800
has been raised for the wire and workmanship of iron wings.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 345.

[1105] It is remarkable that so good a Latin scholar as Johnson, should have been so inattentive
to the metre, as by mistake to have written stellas instead of ignes. BOSWELL.

[1106]

                  'Micat inter omnes
      Julium sidus, velut inter ignes Luna minores.'
     'And like the Moon, the feebler fires among,
      Conspicuous shines the Julian star.'

     FRANCIS. Horace, Odes, i. 12. 46.

[1107] See ante, iii. 209.

[1108]

     'The little blood that creeps within his veins
      Is but just warmed in a hot fever's pains.'

    DRYDEN. Juvenal, Satires, x. 217.

[1109] Lunardi had made, on Sept. 15, the first balloon ascent in England. Gent. Mag. 1784,
p. 711. Johnson wrote to Mr. Ryland on Sept. 18:--'I had this day in three letters three histories
of the Flying Man in the great Balloon.' He adds:--'I live in dismal solitude.' Notes and Queries,
5th S. vii. 381.

[1110] 'Sept. 27, 1784. Went to see Blanchard's balloon. Met Burke and D. Burke; walked with
them to Pantheon to see Lunardi's. Sept. 29. About nine came to Brookes's, where I heard that
the balloon had been burnt about four o'clock.' Windham's Diary, p. 24. Mrs. Smart was in Dublin
when Johnson wrote to her. After the passage quoted by Boswell he continued:--'I think, Madam,
you may look upon your expedition as a proper preparative to the voyage which we have often
talked of. Dublin, though a place much worse than London, is not so bad as Iceland.' Smart's
Poems, i. xxi. For Iceland see ante, i. 242. The epitaph, quoted in The Spectator, No. 518,
begins--

     Here Thomas Sapper lies interred. Ah why!
     Born in New-England, did in London die.'

[1112] St. Mark, v. 34.

[1113] There is no record of this in the Gent. Mag. Among the 149 persons who that summer had
been sentenced to death (ante, p. 328) who would notice these two?

[1114] See ante, p. 356, note 1

[1115] Johnson wrote for him a Dedication of his Tasso in 1763. Ante, i. 383.

[1116] There was no information for which Dr. Johnson was less grateful that than for that
which concerned the weather. It was in allusion to his impatience with those who were reduced
to keep conversation alive by observations on the weather, that he applied the old proverb
to himself. If any one of his intimate acquaintance told him it was hot or cold, wet or dry,
windy or calm, he would stop them, by saying, 'Poh! poh! you are telling us that of which none
but men in a mine or a dungeon can be ignorant. Let us bear with patience, or enjoy in quiet,
elementary changes, whether for the better or the worse, as they are never secrets.' BURNEY.
In The Idler, No. II, Johnson shews that 'an Englishman's notice of the weather is the natural
consequence of changeable skies and uncertain seasons... In our island every man goes to sleep
unable to guess whether he shall behold in the morning a bright or cloudy atmosphere, whether
his rest shall be lulled by a shower, or broken by a tempest. We therefore rejoice mutually
at good weather, as at an escape from something that we feared; and mutually complain of bad,
as of the loss of something that we hoped.' See ante, i. 332, and iv. 353.

[1117] His Account of the Musical Performances in Commemoration of Handel. See ante, p. 283.

[1118] The celebrated Miss Fanny Burney. BOSWELL.

[1119] Dr. Burney's letter must have been franked; otherwise there would have been no frugality,
for each enclosure was charged as a separate letter.

[1120] He does not know, that is to say, what people of his acquaintance were in town, privileged
to receive letters post free; such as members of either House of Parliament.

[1121] Consolation is clearly a blunder, Malone's conjecture mortification seems absurd.

[1122] See ante, iii. 48, and iv. 177.

[1123] Windham visited him at Ashbourne in the end of August, after the former of these letters
was written. See ante, p. 356.

[1124] This may refer, as Mr. Croker says, to Hamilton's generous offer, mentioned ante, p.
244. Yet Johnson, with his accurate mind, was not likely to assign to the spring an event of
the previous November.

[1125] Johnson refers to Pope's lines on Walpole:--

     'Seen him I have but in his happier  hour
      Of social pleasure, ill-exchanged for power.'

           Satires. Epilogue, i. 29.

[1126] Son of the late Peter Paradise, Esq. his Britannick Majesty's Consul at Salonica, in
Macedonia, by his lady, a native of that country. He studied at Oxford, and has been honoured
by that University with the degree of LL.D. He is distinguished not only by his learning and
talents, but by an amiable disposition, gentleness of manners, and a very general acquaintance
with well-informed and accomplished persons of almost all nations. BOSWELL.

[1127] Bookseller to his Majesty. BOSWELL.

[1128] Mr. Cruikshank attended him as a surgeon the year before. Ante, p. 239.

[1129]Allan Ramsay, Esq. painter to his Majesty, who died Aug. 10, 1784, in the 71st year of
his age, much regretted by his friends. BOSWELL. See ante, p. 260.

[1130] Northcote (Life of Reynolds, ii. 187) says that Johnson 'most probably refers to Sir
Joshua's becoming painter to the King. 'I know,' he continues, 'that Sir Joshua expected the
appointment would be offered to him on the death of Ramsay, and expressed his disapprobation
with regard to soliciting for it; but he was informed that it was a necessary point of etiquette,
with which at last he complied.' His 'furious purposes' should seem to have been his intention
to resign the Presidency of the Academy, on finding that the place was not at once given him,
and in the knowledge that in the Academy there was a party against him. Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 448.

[1131] See ante, p. 348.

[1132] The Chancellor had not, it should seem, asked the King. See ante, p. 350, note.

[1133] The Duke of Devonshire has kindly given me the following explanation of this term:--'It
was formerly the custom at some (I believe several) of the large country-houses to have dinners
at which any of the neighbouring gentry and clergy might present themselves as guests without
invitation. The custom had been discontinued at Chatsworth before my recollection, and so far
as I am aware is now only kept-up at Wentworth, Lord Fitzwilliam's house in Yorkshire, where
a few public dinners are still given annually. I believe, however, that all persons intending
to be present on such occasions are now expected to give notice some days previously. Public
dinners were also given formerly by the Archbishop of Canterbury, and if I am not mistaken
also by the Archbishop of York. I have myself been present at a public dinner at Lambeth Palace
within the last fifty years or thereabouts, and I have been at one or more such dinners at
Wentworth.' Since receiving this explanation I have read the following in the second part of
the Greville Memoirs, i. 99:--'June 1, 1838. I dined yesterday at Lambeth, at the Archbishop's
public dinner, the handsomest entertainment I ever saw. There were nearly a hundred people
present, all full-dressed or in uniform. Nothing can be more dignified and splendid than the
whole arrangement.'

[1134] Six weeks later he was willing to hear even of balloons, so long as he got a letter.
'You,' he wrote to Mr. Sastres, 'may always have something to tell: you live among the various
orders of mankind, and may make a letter from the exploits, sometimes of the philosopher, and
sometimes of the pickpocket. You see some balloons succeed and some miscarry, and a thousand
strange and a thousand foolish things.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 412.

[1135] See ante, p. 349, note.

[1136] 'He alludes probably to the place of King's Painter; which, since Burke's reforming
the King's household expenses, had been reduced from £200 to £50 per annum.' Northcote's Reynolds,
ii. 188. The place was more profitable than Johnson thought. 'It was worth having from the
harvest it brought in by the multiplication of the faces of King and Queen as presents for
ambassadors and potentates.' This is shewn by the following note in Sir Joshua's price-book:--'Nov.
28, 1789, remain in the Academy five Kings, four Queens; in the house two Kings and one Queen.'
Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 449.

[1137] Mr. Nichols published in 1782 Anecdotes of William Bowyer, Printer. In 1812-15 he brought
out this work, recast and enlarged, under the title of Literary Anecdotes of the Eighteenth
Century. See ante, p. 161.

[1138] In the original (which is in the British Museum) not hints but names.

[1139] On Nov. 4, he wrote to Mr. Ryland:--'I have just received a letter in which you tell
me that you love to hear from me, and I value such a declaration too much to neglect it. To
have a friend, and a friend like you, may be numbered amongst the first felicities of life;
at a time when weakness either of body or mind loses the pride and the confidence of self-sufficiency,
and looks round for that help which perhaps human kindness cannot give, and which we yet are
willing to expect from one another. I am at this time very much dejected.... I am now preparing
myself for my return, and do not despair of some more monthly meetings [post, Appendix C].
To hear that dear Payne is better gives me great delight. I saw the draught of the stone [over
Mrs. Johnson's grave, ante, p. 351]. Shall I ever be able to bear the sight of this stone?
In your company I hope I shall.' Mr. Morrison's Autographs, vol. ii.

[1140] To him as a writer might be generally applied what he said of Rochester:--'His pieces
are commonly short, such as one fit of resolution would produce.' Works, vii. 159.

[1141] Odes, iv.7. Works, i. 137.

[1142] Against inqitisitive and perplexing thoughts. 'O LORD, my Maker and Protector, who hast
graciously sent me into this world to work out my salvation, enable me to drive from me all
such unquiet and perplexing thoughts as may mislead or hinder me in the practice of those duties
which Thou hast required. When I behold the works of thy hands, and consider the course of
thy providence, give me grace always to remember that thy thoughts are not my thoughts, nor
thy ways my ways. And while it shall please Thee to continue me in this world, where much is
to be done, and little to be known, teach me by thy Holy Spirit, to withdraw my mind from unprofitable
and dangerous enquiries, from difficulties vainly curious, and doubts impossible to be solved.
Let me rejoice in the light which Thou hast imparted, let me serve Thee with active zeal and
humble confidence, and wait with patient expectation for the time in which the soul which Thou
receivest shall be satisfied with knowledge. Grant this, O LORD, for JESUS CHRIST'S sake. Amen.'
BOSWELL. Pr. and Med. p. 219.

[1143] Life of Johnson, p. 599.

[1144] Porson with admirable humour satirised Hawkins for his attack on Barber. Gent. Mag.
1787, p. 752, and Porson Tracts, p. 358. Baretti in his Tolondron, p. 149, says that 'Barber
from his earliest youth served Johnson with the greatest affection and disinterestedness.'

[1145] Vol. ii. p. 30. BOSWELL.

[1146] I shall add one instance only to those which I have thought it incumbent on me to point
out. Talking of Mr. Garrick's having signified his willingness to let Johnson have the loan
of any of his books to assist him in his edition of Shakspeare [ante, ii. 192]; Sir John says,
(p. 444,) 'Mr. Garrick knew not what risque he ran by this offer. Johnson had so strange a
forgetfulness of obligations of this sort, that few who lent him books ever saw them again.'
This surely conveys a most unfavourable insinuation, and has been so understood. Sir John mentions
the single case of a curious edition of Politian [ante, i. 90], which he tells us, 'appeared
to belong to Pembroke College, and which, probably, had been considered by Johnson as his own,
for upwards of fifty years.' Would it not be fairer to consider this as an inadvertence, and
draw no general inference? The truth is, that Johnson was so attentive, that in one of his
manuscripts in my possession, he has marked in two columns, books borrowed, and books lent.

In Sir John Hawkins's compilation, there are, however, some passages concerning Johnson which
have unquestionable merit. One of them I shall transcribe, in justice to a writer whom I have
had too much occasion to censure, and to shew my fairness as the biographer of my illustrious
friend: 'There was wanting in his conduct and behaviour, that dignity which results from a
regular and orderly course of action, and by an irresistible power commands esteem. He could
not be said to be a stayed man, nor so to have adjusted in his mind the balance of reason and
passion, as to give occasion to say what may be observed of some men, that all they do is just,
fit, and right.' [Hawkins's Johnson, p. 409.] Yet a judicious friend well suggests, 'It might,
however, have been added, that such men are often merely just, and rigidly correct, while their
hearts are cold and unfeeling; and that Johnson's virtues were of a much higher tone than those
of the stayed, orderly man, here described.' BOSWELL.

[1147] 'Lich, a dead carcase; whence Lichfield, the field of the dead, a city in Staffordshire,
so named from martyred Christians. Salve magna parens.' It is curious that in the Abridgment
of the Dictionary he struck out this salutation, though he left the rest of the article. Salve
magna parens, (Hail, mighty parent) is from Virgil's Georgics, ii. 173. The Rev. T. Twining,
when at Lichfield in 1797, says:--'I visited the famous large old willow-tree, which Johnson,
they say, used to kiss when he came to Lichfield.' Recreations and Studies of a Country Clergyman
of the XVIII Century, p. 227.

[1148] The following circumstance, mutually to the honour of Johnson, and the corporation of
his native city, has been communicated to me by the Reverend Dr. Vyse, from the Town-Clerk:--'Mr.
Simpson has now before him, a record of the respect and veneration which the Corporation of
Lichfield, in the year 1767, had for the merits and learning of Dr. Johnson. His father built
the corner-house in the Market-place, the two fronts of which, towards Market and Broad-market-street,
stood upon waste land of the Corporation, under a forty years' lease, which was then expired.
On the 15th of August, 1767, at a common-hall of the bailiffs and citizens, it was ordered
(and that without any solicitation,) that a lease should be granted to Samuel Johnson, Doctor
of Laws, of the encroachments at his house, for the term of ninety-nine years, at the old rent,
which was five shillings. Of which, as Town-Clerk, Mr. Simpson had the honour and pleasure
of informing him, and that he was desired to accept it, without paying any fine on the occasion,
which lease was afterwards granted, and the Doctor died possessed of this property.' BOSWELL.

[1149] See vol. i. p. 37. BOSWELL.

[1150] According to Miss Seward, who was Mr. White's cousin, 'Johnson once called him "the
rising strength of Lichfield."' Seward's Letters, i. 335.

[1151] The Rev. R. Warner, who visited Lichfield in 1801, gives in his Tour through the Northern
Counties, i. 105, a fuller account. He is clearly wrong in the date of its occurrence, and
in one other matter, yet his story may in the main be true. He says that Johnson's friends
at Lichfield missed him one morning; the servants said that he had set off at a very early
hour, whither they knew not. Just before supper he returned. He informed his hostess of his
breach of filial duty, which had happened just fifty years before on that very day. 'To do
away the sin of this disobedience, I this day went,' he said, 'in a chaise to--, and going
into the market at the time of high business uncovered my head, and stood with it bare an hour,
before the stall which my father had formerly used, exposed to the sneers of the standers-by,
and the inclemency of the weather.' This penance may recall Dante's lines,--

     'Quando vivea più glorioso, disse,
      Liberamente nel campo di Siena,
      Ogni vergogna deposta, s'affisse.'
    '"When at his glory's topmost height," said he,
     "Respect of dignity all cast aside,
        Freely he fix'd him on Sienna's plain."'

      CARY. Dante, Purgatory. Cant. xi. l. 133.

[1152]

     'How instinct varies in the grovelling swine,
      Compared, half-reasoning elephant, with thine.'

        Pope, Essay on Man, i. 221.

[1153] See ante, iii. 153, 296.

[1154] Mr. Burke suggested to me as applicable to Johnson, what Cicero, in his CATO MAJOR,
says of Appius:--'Intentum enim animum tanquam arcum habebat, nec languescens succumbebat senectuti;'
repeating, at the same time, the following noble words in the same passage:--'Ita enim senectus
honesta est, si se ipsa defendit, si jus suum retinet, si nemini emancipata est, si usque ad
extremum vitae spiritum vindicet jus suum.' BOSWELL. The last line runs in the original:-'si
usque ad ultimum spiritum dominatur in suos.' Cato Major, xi. 38.

[1155]

     'atrocem animum Catonis.'
                                  'Cato--
      Of spirit unsubdued.'

     FRANCIS. Horace, 2 Odes, i. 24.

[1156] Yet Baretti, who knew Johnson well, in a MS. note on Piozzi Letters, i.315, says:--'If
ever Johnson took any delight in anything it was to converse with some old acquaintance. On
Sept. 2, 1784, he wrote to Mr. Sastres the Italian master:--'I have hope of standing the English
winter, and of seeing you, and reading Petrarch at Bolt-court.' Ib. p. 407.

[1158] Life of Johnson, p. 7.

[1159] It is a most agreeable circumstance attending the publication of this Work, that Mr.
Hector has survived his illustrious schoolfellow so many years; that he still retains his health
and spirits; and has gratified me with the following acknowledgement: 'I thank you, most sincerely
thank you, for the great and long continued entertainment your Life of Dr. Johnson has afforded
me, and others, of my particular friends.' Mr. Hector, besides setting me right as to the verses
on a sprig of Myrtle, (see vol. i. p. 92, note,) has favoured me with two English odes, written
by Dr. Johnson, at an early period of his life, which will appear in my edition of his poems.
BOSWELL. See ante, i. 16, note 1.

[1160] The editor of the Biographia Britannica. Ante, iii. 174.

[1161] On Dec. 23, Miss Adams wrote to a friend:--'We are all under the sincerest grief for
the loss of poor Dr. Johnson. He spent three or four days with my father at Oxford, and promised
to come again; as he was, he said, nowhere so happy.' Pemb. Coll. MSS.

[1162] See ante, p. 293.

[1163] Mr. Strahan says (Preface, p. iv.) that Johnson, being hindered by illness from revising
these prayers, 'determined to give the MSS., without revision, in charge to me. Accordingly
one morning, on my visiting him by desire at an early hour, he put these papers into my hands,
with instructions for committing them to the press, and with a promise to prepare a sketch
of his own life to accompany them.' Whatever Johnson wished about the prayers, it passes belief
that he ever meant for the eye of the world these minute accounts of his health and his feelings.
Some parts indeed Mr. Strahan himself suppressed, as the Pemb. Coll. MSS. shew (ante, p. 84,
note 4). It is curious that one portion at least fell into other hands (ante, ii. 476). There
are other apparent gaps in the diary which raise the suspicion that it was only fragments that
Mr. Strahan obtained. On the other hand Mr. Strahan had nothing to gain by the publication
beyond notoriety (see his Preface, p. vi.). Dr. Adams, whose name is mentioned in the preface,
expressed in a letter to the Gent. Mag. 1785, p. 755, his disapproval of the publication. Mr.
Courtenay (Poetical Review, ed. 1786, p. 7), thus attacked Mr. Strahan:--

     'Let priestly S--h--n in a godly fit
     The tale relate, in aid of Holy Writ;
     Though candid Adams, by whom David fell [A],
     Who ancient miracles sustained so well,
     To recent wonders may deny his aid,
     Nor own a pious brother of the trade.'

[A] The Rev. Dr. Adams of Oxford, distinguished for his answer to David Hume's Essay on Miracles.

[1164] Johnson once said to Miss Burney of her brother Charles:--'I should be glad to see him
if he were not your brother; but were he a dog, a cat, a rat, a frog, and belonged to you,
I must needs be glad to see him.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 233. On Nov. 25 she called on
him. 'He let me in, though very ill. He told me he was going to try what sleeping out of town
might do for him. "I remember," said he, "that my wife, when she was near her end, poor woman,
was also advised to sleep out of town; and when she was carried to the lodgings that had been
prepared for her, she complained that the staircase was in very bad condition, for the plaster
was beaten off the walls in many places." "Oh!" said the man of the house, "that's nothing
but by the knocks against it of the coffins of the poor souls that have died in the lodgings."
He laughed, though not without apparent secret anguish, in telling me this.' Miss Burney continues:--'How
delightfully bright are his faculties, though the poor and infirm machine that contains them
seems alarmingly giving way. Yet, all brilliant as he was, I saw him growing worse, and offered
to go, which, for the first time I ever remember, he did not oppose; but most kindly pressing
both my hands, "Be not," he said, in a voice of even tenderness, "be not longer in coming again
for my letting you go now." I assured him I would be the sooner, and was running off, but he
called me back in a solemn voice, and in a manner the most energetic, said:--"Remember me in
your prayers."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 327. See ante, iii. 367, note 4.

[1165] Mr. Hector's sister and Johnson's first love. Ante, ii. 459.

[1166] The Rev. Dr. Taylor. BOSWELL.

[1167] See ante, ii. 474, and iii. 180.

[1168] 'Reliquum est, [Greek: Sphartan elaches, tahutan khusmei].' Cicero, Epistolae ad Atticum,
iv. 6. 'Spartam nactus es, hanc orna.' Erasmus, Adagiorum Chiliades, ed. 1559, p. 485. 1757,
i. 170.

[1170] It is truly wonderful to consider the extent and constancy of Johnson's literary ardour,
notwithstanding the melancholy which clouded and embittered his existence. Besides the numerous
and various works which he executed, he had, at different times, formed schemes of a great
many more, of which the following catalogue was given by him to Mr. Langton, and by that gentleman
presented to his Majesty:

'DIVINITY.

'A small book of precepts and directions for piety; the hint taken from the directions in Morton's
exercise.

'PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, and LITERATURE in general.

'History of Criticism, as it relates to judging of authours, from Aristotle to the present
age. An account of the rise and improvements of that art; of the different opinions of authours,
ancient and modern.

'Translation of the History of Herodian.

'New edition of Fairfax's Translation of Tasso, with notes, glossary, &c.

'Chaucer, a new edition of him, from manuscripts and old editions, with various readings, conjectures,
remarks on his language, and the changes it had undergone from the earliest times to his age,
and from his to the present: with notes explanatory of customs, &c., and references to Boccace,
and other authours from whom he has borrowed, with an account of the liberties he has taken
in telling the stories; his life, and an exact etymological glossary.

'Aristotle's Rhetorick, a translation of it into English.

'A Collection of Letters, translated from the modern writers, with some account of the several
authours.

'Oldham's Poems, with notes, historical and critical.

'Roscommon's Poems, with notes.

'Lives of the Philosophers, written with a polite air, in such a manner as may divert as well
as instruct.

'History of the Heathen Mythology, with an explication of the fables, both allegorical and
historical; with references to the poets.

'History of the State of Venice, in a compendious manner.

'Aristotle's Ethicks, an English translation of them, with notes.

'Geographical Dictionary, from the French.

'Hierocles upon Pythagoras, translated into English, perhaps with notes. This is done by Norris.

'A book of Letters, upon all kinds of subjects.

'Claudian, a new edition of his works, cum notis variorum, in the manner of Burman.

'Tully's Tusculan Questions, a translation of them.

'Tully's De Naturâ Deorum, a translation of those books.

'Benzo's New History of the New World, to be translated.

'Machiavel's History of Florence, to be translated.

'History of the Revival of Learning in Europe, containing an account of whatever contributed
to the restoration of literature; such as controversies, printing, the destruction of the Greek
empire, the encouragement of great men, with the lives of the most eminent patrons and most
eminent early professors of all kinds of learning in different countries.

'A Body of Chronology, in verse, with historical notes.

'A Table of the Spectators, Tatlers, and Guardians, distinguished by figures into six degrees
of value, with notes, giving the reasons of preference or degradation.

'A Collection of Letters from English authours, with a preface giving some account of the writers;
with reasons for selection, and criticism upon styles; remarks on each letter, if needful.

'A Collection of Proverbs from various languages. Jan. 6,--53.

'A Dictionary to the Common Prayer, in imitation of Calmet's Dictionary of the Bible. March, 52.

'A Collection of Stories and Examples, like those of Valerius Maximus. Jan. 10,--53.

'From Aelian, a volume of select Stories, perhaps from others. Jan. 28,-53.

'Collection of Travels, Voyages, Adventures, and Descriptions of Countries.

'Dictionary of Ancient History and Mythology.

'Treatise on the Study of Polite Literature, containing the history of learning, directions
for editions, commentaries, &c.

'Maxims, Characters, and Sentiments, after the manner of Bruyère, collected out of ancient
authours, particularly the Greek, with Apophthegms.

'Classical Miscellanies, Select Translations from ancient Greek and Latin authours.

'Lives of Illustrious Persons, as well of the active as the learned, in imitation of Plutarch.

'Judgement of the learned upon English authours.

'Poetical Dictionary of the English tongue.

'Considerations upon the present state of London.

'Collection of Epigrams, with notes and observations.

'Observations on the English language, relating to words, phrases, and modes of Speech.

'Minutiae Literariae, Miscellaneous reflections, criticisms, emendations, notes.

'History of the Constitution.

'Comparison of Philosophical and Christian Morality, by sentences collected from the moralists
and fathers.

'Plutarch's Lives, in English, with notes.

'POETRY and works of IMAGINATION.

'Hymn to Ignorance.

'The Palace of Sloth,--a vision.

'Coluthus, to be translated.

'Prejudice,--a poetical essay.

'The Palace of Nonsense,--a vision.'

Johnson's extraordinary facility of composition, when he shook off his constitutional indolence,
and resolutely sat down to write, is admirably described by Mr. Courtenay, in his Poetical
Review, which I have several times quoted:

     'While through life's maze he sent a piercing view,
      His mind expansive to the object grew.
      With various stores of erudition fraught,
      The lively image, the deep-searching thought,
      Slept in repose;--but when the moment press'd,
      The bright ideas stood at once confess'd;
      Instant his genius sped its vigorous rays,
      And o'er the letter'd world diffus'd a blaze:
      As womb'd with fire the cloud electrick flies,
      And calmly o'er th' horizon seems to rise;
      Touch'd by the pointed steel, the lightning flows,
      And all th' expanse with rich effulgence glows.'

We shall in vain endeavour to know with exact precision every production of Johnson's pen.
He owned to me, that he had written about forty sermons; but as I understood that he had given
or sold them to different persons, who were to preach them as their own, he did not consider
himself at liberty to acknowledge them. Would those who were thus aided by him, who are still
alive, and the friends of those who are dead, fairly inform the world, it would be obligingly
gratifying a reasonable curiosity, to which there should, I think, now be no objection. Two
volumes of them, published since his death, are sufficiently ascertained; see vol. iii. p.
181. I have before me, in his hand-writing, a fragment of twenty quarto leaves, of a translation
into English of Sallust, De Bella Catilinario. When it was done I have no notion; but it seems
to have no very superior merit to mark it as his. Beside the publications heretofore mentioned,
I am satisfied, from internal evidence, to admit also as genuine the following, which, notwithstanding
all my chronological care, escaped me in the course of this work:

'Considerations on the Case of Dr. Trapp's Sermons,' + published in 1739, in the Gentleman's
Magazine. [These Considerations were published, not in 1739, but in 1787. Ante, i. 140, note
5.] It is a very ingenious defence of the right of abridging an authour's work, without being
held as infringing his property. This is one of the nicest questions in the Law of Literature;
and I cannot help thinking, that the indulgence of abridging is often exceedingly injurious
to authours and booksellers, and should in very few cases be permitted. At any rate, to prevent
difficult and uncertain discussion, and give an absolute security to authours in the property
of their labours, no abridgement whatever should be permitted, till after the expiration of
such a number of years as the Legislature may be pleased to fix.

But, though it has been confidently ascribed to him, I cannot allow that he wrote a Dedication
to both Houses of Parliament of a book entitled The Evangelical History Harmonized. He was
no croaker; no declaimer against the times. [See ante, ii. 357.] He would not have written,
'That we are fallen upon an age in which corruption is not barely universal, is universally
confessed.' Nor 'Rapine preys on the publick without opposition, and perjury betrays it without
inquiry.' Nor would he, to excite a speedy reformation, have conjured up such phantoms of terrour
as these: 'A few years longer, and perhaps all endeavours will be in vain. We may be swallowed
by an earthquake: we may be delivered to our enemies.' This is not Johnsonian.

There are, indeed, in this Dedication, several sentences constructed upon the model of those
of Johnson. But the imitation of the form, without the spirit of his style, has been so general,
that this of itself is not sufficient evidence. Even our newspaper writers aspire to it. In
an account of the funeral of Edwin, the comedian, in The Diary of Nov. 9, 1790, that son of
drollery is thus described: 'A man who had so often cheered the sullenness of vacancy, and
suspended the approaches of sorrow.' And in The Dublin Evening Post, August 16, 1791, there
is the following paragraph: 'It is a singular circumstance, that, in a city like this, containing
200,000 people, there are three months in the year during which no place of publick amusement
is open. Long vacation is here a vacation from pleasure, as well as business; nor is there
any mode of passing the listless evenings of declining summer, but in the riots of a tavern,
or the stupidity of a coffee-house.'

I have not thought it necessary to specify every copy of verses written by Johnson, it being
my intention to, publish an authentick edition of all his Poetry, with notes. BOSWELL. This
Catalogue, as Mr. Boswell calls it, is by Dr. Johnson intitled Designs. It seems from the hand
that it was written early in life: from the marginal dates it appears that some portions were
added in 1752 and 1753. CROKER.

[1171] On April 19 of this year he wrote: 'When I lay sleepless, I used to drive the night
along by turning Greek epigrams into Latin. I know not if I have not turned a hundred.' Piozzi
Letters, ii. 364. Forty-five years earlier he described how Boerhaave, 'when he lay whole days
and nights without sleep, found no method of diverting his thoughts so effectual as meditation
upon his studies, and often relieved and mitigated the sense of his torments by the recollection
of what he had read, and by reviewing those stores of knowledge which he had reposited in his
memory.' Works, vi. 284.

[1172] Mr. Cumberland assures me, that he was always treated with great courtesy by Dr. Johnson,
who, in his Letters to Mrs. Thrale, vol. ii. p. 68 thus speaks of that learned, ingenious,
and accomplished gentleman: 'The want of company is an inconvenience: but Mr. Cumberland is
a million.' BOSWELL. Northcote, according to Hazlitt (Conversations of Northcote, p. 275),
said that Johnson and his friends 'never admitted C----[Cumberland] as one of the set; Sir
Joshua did not invite him to dinner. If he had been in the room, Goldsmith would have flown
out of it as if a dragon had been there. I remember Garrick once saying, "D--n his dish-clout
face; his plays would never do, if it were not for my patching them up and acting in them."'

[1173] See ante, p. 64, note 2.

[1174] Dr. Parr said, "There are three great Grecians in England: Porson is the first; Burney
is the third; and who is the second I need not tell"' Field's Parr, ii. 215.

[1175] 'Dr. Johnson,' said Parr, 'was an admirable scholar.... The classical scholar was forgotten
in the great original contributor to the literature of his country.' Ib. i. 164. 'Upon his
correct and profound knowledge of the Latin language,' he wrote, 'I have always spoken with
unusual zeal and unusual confidence.' Johnson's Parr, iv. 679. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 54) recounts
a 'triumph' gained by Johnson in a talk on Greek literature.

[1176] Ante, iii. 172.

[1177] We must smile at a little inaccuracy of metaphor in the Preface to the Transactions,
which is written by Mr. Burrowes. The critick of the style of JOHNSON having, with a just zeal
for literature, observed, that the whole nation are called on to exert themselves, afterwards
says: 'They are called on by every tye which can have a laudable influence on the heart of
man.' BOSWELL.

[1178] Johnson's wishing to unite himself with this rich widow, was much talked of, but I believe
without foundation. The report, however, gave occasion to a poem, not without characteristical
merit, entitled, 'Ode to Mrs. Thrale, by Samuel Johnson, LL.D. on their supposed approaching
Nuptials; printed for Mr. Faulder in Bond-street.' I shall quote as a specimen the first three
stanzas:--

     'If e'er my fingers touch'd the lyre,
        In satire fierce, in pleasure gay;
      Shall not my THRALIA'S smiles inspire?
        Shall Sam refuse the sportive lay?
      My dearest Lady! view your slave,
        Behold him as your very Scrub;
      Eager to write, as authour grave,
        Or govern well, the brewing-tub.
      To rich felicity thus raised,
        My bosom glows with amorous fire;
      Porter no longer shall be praised,
        'Tis I MYSELF am Thrale's Entire'

[1179] See ante, ii. 44.

[1180] 'Higledy piggledy,--Conglomeration and confusion.

'Hodge-podge,--A culinary mixture of heterogeneous ingredients: applied metaphorically to all
discordant combinations.

'Tit for Tat,--Adequate retaliation.

'Shilly Shally,--Hesitation and irresolution.

'Fee! fau! fum!--Gigantic intonations.

Rigmarole,-Discourse, incoherent and rhapsodical.

'Crincum-crancum,--Lines of irregularity and involution.

'Dingdong--Tintinabulary chimes, used metaphorically to signify dispatch and vehemence.' BOSWELL.
In all the editions that I have examined the sentence in the text beginning with 'annexed,'
and ending with 'concatenation,' is printed as if it were Boswell's. It is a quotation from
vol. ii. p. 93 of Colman's book. For Scrub, see ante, iii. 70, note 2.

[1181] See ante, iii. 173.

[1182] History of America, vol. i. quarto, p. 332. BOSWELL.

[1183] Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 219) thus writes of his own style:--'The style of an author
should be the image of his mind, but the choice and command of language is the fruit of exercise.
Many experiments were made before I could hit the middle tone between a dull chronicle and
a rhetorical declamation; three times did I compose the first chapter, and twice the second
and third, before I was tolerably satisfied with their effect.' See ante, p. 36, note 1.

[1184] Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, vol. i. chap. iv. BOSWELL.

[1185] Macaulay (Essays, ed. 1874, iv. 157) gives a yet better example of her Johnsonian style,
though, as I have shewn (ante, p. 223, note 5), he is wrong in saying that Johnson's hand can
be seen.

[1186] Cecilia, Book. vii. chap. i. [v.] BOSWELL.

[1187] The passage which I quote is taken from that gentleman's Elements of Orthoepy; containing
a distinct View of the whole Analogy of the ENGLISH LANGUAGE, so far as relates to Pronunciation,
Accent, and Quantity, London, 1784. I beg leave to offer my particular acknowledgements to
the authour of a work of uncommon merit and great utility. I know no book which contains, in
the same compass, more learning, polite literature, sound sense, accuracy of arrangement, and
perspicuity of expression. BOSWELL.

[1188] That collection was presented to Dr. Johnson, I believe by its authours; and I heard
him speak very well of it. BOSWELL. The Mirror was published in 1779-80; by 1793 it reached
its ninth edition. For an account of it see Appendix DD. to Forbes's Beattie. Henry Mackenzie,
the author of The Man of Feeling, was the chief contributor as well as the conductor of the
paper. He is given as the author of No. 16 in Lynam's edition, p. 1.

[1189] The name of Vicesimus Knox is now scarcely known. Yet so late as 1824 his collected
Works were published in seven octavo volumes. The editor says of his Essays (i. iii):--'In
no department of the Belles Lettres has any publication, excepting the Spectator, been so extensively
circulated. It has been translated into most of the European languages.' See ante, i. 222,
note 1; iii. 13, note 3; and iv. 330.

[1190] Lucretius, iii. 6.

[1191] It were to be wished, that he had imitated that great man in every respect, and had
not followed the example of Dr. Adam Smith [ante, iii. 13, note 1] in ungraciously attacking
his venerable Alma Mater Oxford. It must, however, be observed, that he is much less to blame
than Smith: he only objects to certain particulars; Smith to the whole institution; though
indebted for much of his learning to an exhibition which he enjoyed for many years at Baliol
College. Neither of them, however, will do any hurt to the noblest university in the world.
While I animadvert on what appears to me exceptionable in some of the works of Dr. Knox, I
cannot refuse due praise to others of his productions; particularly his sermons, and to the
spirit with which he maintains, against presumptuous hereticks, the consolatory doctrines peculiar
to the Christian Revelation. This he has done in a manner equally strenuous and conciliating.
Neither ought I to omit mentioning a remarkable instance of his candour: Notwithstanding the
wide difference of our opinions, upon the important subject of University education, in a letter
to me concerning this Work, he thus expresses himself: 'I thank you for the very great entertainment
your Life of Johnson gives me. It is a most valuable work. Yours is a new species of biography.
Happy for Johnson, that he had so able a recorder of his wit and wisdom.' BOSWELL.

[1192] Dr. Knox, in his Moral and Literary abstraction, may be excused for not knowing the
political regulations of his country. No senator can be in the hands of a bailiff. BOSWELL.

[1193] It is entitled A Continuation of Dr. J--n's Criticism on the Poems of Gray. The following
is perhaps the best passage:--'On some fine evening Gray had seen the moon shining on a tower
such as is here described. An owl might be peeping out from the ivy with which it was clad.
Of the observer the station might be such that the owl, now emerged from the mantling, presented
itself to his eye in profile, skirting with the Moon's limb. All this is well. The perspective
is striking; and the picture well defined. But the poet was not contented. He felt a desire
to enlarge it; and in executing his purpose gave it accumulation without improvement. The idea
of the Owl's complaining is an artificial one; and the views on which it proceeds absurd. Gray
should have seen, that it but ill befitted the Bird of Wisdom to complain to the Moon of an
intrusion which the Moon could no more help than herself.' p. 17. Johnson wrote of this book:--'I
know little of it, for though it was sent me I never cut the leaves open. I had a letter with
it representing it to me as my own work; in such an account to the publick there may be humour,
but to myself it was neither serious nor comical. I suspect the writer to be wrong-headed.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 289. 'I was told,' wrote Walpole (Letters, viii. 376), 'it would divert
me, that it seems to criticise Gray, but really laughs at Johnson. I sent for it and skimmed
it over, but am not at all clear what it means--no recommendation of anything. I rather think
the author wishes to be taken by Gray's admirers for a ridiculer of Johnson, and by the tatter's
for a censurer of Gray.' '"The cleverest parody of the Doctor's style of criticism," wrote
Sir Walter Scott, "is by John Young of Glasgow, and is very capital."' Croker Corres, ii. 34.

[1194] See ante, iv. 59, for Burke's description of Croft's imitation.

[1195] See ante, ii. 465.

[1196] H.S.E.

MICHAEL JOHNSON,

Vir impavidus, constans, animosus, periculorum immemor, laborum patientissimus; fiducia christiana
fortis, fervidusque; paterfamilias apprime strenuus; bibliopola admodum peritus; mente et libris
et negotiis exculta; animo ita firmo, ut, rebus adversis diu conflictatus, nec sibi nec suis
defuerit; lingua sic temperata, ut ei nihil quod aures vel pias, vel castas laesisset, aut
dolor, vel voluptas unquam expresserit.

Natus Cubleiae, in agro Derbiensi,

Anno MDCLVI.

Obiit MDCCXXXI.

Apposita est SARA, conjux,

Antiqua FORDORUM gente oriunda; quam domi sedulam, foris paucis notam; nulli molestam, mentis
acumine et judicii subtilitate praecellentem; aliis multum, sibi parum indulgentem: aeternitati
semper attentam, omne fere virtutis nomen commendavit.

Nata Nortoniae Regis, in agro Varvicensi, Anno MDCLXIX;

Obiit MDCCLIX.

Cum NATHANAELE, illorum filio, qui natus MDCCXII, cum vires et animi et corporis multa pollicerentur,
anno MDCCXXXVII, vitam brevem pia morte finivit. Johnson's Works, i. 150.

[1197] Hawkins (Life, p. 590) says that he asked that the stone over his own grave 'might be
so placed as to protect his body from injury.' Harwood (History of Lichfield, p. 520) says
that the stone in St. Michael's was removed in 1796, when the church was paved. A fresh one
with the old inscriptions was placed in the church on the hundredth anniversary of Johnson's
death by Robert Thorp, Esq., of Buxton Road House, Macclesfield. The Rev. James Serjeantson,
Rector of St. Michael's, suggests to me that the first stone was never set up. It is, he says,
unlikely that such a memorial within a dozen years was treated so unworthily. Moreover in 1841
and again in 1883, during reparations of the church, a very careful search was made for it,
but without result. There may have been, he thinks, some difficulty in finding the exact place
of interment. The matter may have stood over till it was forgotten, and the mason, whose receipted
bill shews that he was paid for the stone, may have used it for some other purpose.

[1198] See ante, i. 241, and iv. 351.

[1199] 'He would also,' says Hawkins (Life, p. 579), 'have written in Latin verse an epitaph
for Mr. Garrick, but found himself unequal to the task of original poetic composition in that
language.'

[1200] In his Life of Browne, Johnson wrote:--'The time will come to every human being when
it must be known how well he can bear to die; and it has appeared that our author's fortitude
did not desert him in the great hour of trial.' Works, vi. 499.

[1201] A Club in London, founded by the learned and ingenious physician, Dr. Ash, in honour
of whose name it was called Eumelian, from the Greek [Greek: Eumelias]; though it was warmly
contended, and even put to a vote, that it should have the more obvious appellation of Fraxinean,
from the Latin. BOSWELL. This club, founded in 1788, met at the Blenheim Tavern, Bond-street.
Reynolds, Boswell, Burney, and Windham were members. Rose's Biog. Dict. ii. 240. [Greek: Eummeliaes]
means armed with good ashen spear.

[1202] Mrs. Thrale's Collection, March 10,1784. Vol. ii. p. 350. BOSWELL.

[1203] Hawkins's Life of Johnson, p. 583.

[1204] See what he said to Mr. Malone, p. 53 of this volume. BOSWELL.

[1205] See ante, i. 223, note 2.

[1206] Epistle to the Romans, vii. 23.

[1207] 'Johnson's passions,' wrote Reynolds, 'were like those of other men, the difference
only lay in his keeping a stricter watch over himself. In petty circumstances this [? his]
wayward disposition appeared, but in greater things he thought it worth while to summon his
recollection and be always on his guard.... [To them that loved him not] as rough as winter;
to those who sought his love as mild as summer--many instances will readily occur to those
who knew him intimately of the guard which he endeavoured always to keep over himself.' Taylor's
Reynolds, ii. 460. See ante, i. 94, 164, 201, and iv. 215.

[1208] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3d ed. p. 209. [Post, v. 211.] On the same subject,
in his Letter to Mrs. Thrale, dated Nov. 29, 1783, he makes the following just observation:--'Life,
to be worthy of a rational being, must be always in progression; we must always purpose to
do more or better than in time past. The mind is enlarged and elevated by mere purposes, though
they end as they began [in the original, begin], by airy contemplation. We compare and judge,
though we do not practise.' BOSWELL.

[1209] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, p. 374. [Post, v. 359.] BOSWELL.

[1210] Psalm xix. 13.

[1211] Pr. and Med. p.47. BOSWELL.

[1212] Ib. p. 68 BOSWELL

[1213] Ib. p. 84 BOSWELL

[1214] Ib. p. 120. BOSWELL.

[1215] Pr. and Med. p. 130. BOSWELL.

[1216] Dr. Johnson related, with very earnest approbation, a story of a gentleman, who, in
an impulse of passion, overcame the virtue of a young woman. When she said to him, 'I am afraid
we have done wrong!' he answered, 'Yes, we have done wrong;--for I would not debauch her mind.'
BOSWELL.

[1217] St. John, viii. 7.

[1218] Pr. and Med. p. 192. BOSWELL.

[1219] See ante, iii. 155.

[1220] Boswell, on Feb. 10, 1791, describing to Malone the progress of his book, says:--'I
have now before me p. 488 [of vol. ii.] in print; and 923 pages of the copy [MS.] only is exhausted,
and there remains 80, besides the death; as to which I shall be concise, though solemn. Pray
how shall I wind up? Shall I give the character from my Tour somewhat enlarged?' Croker's Boswell,
p. 829. Mr. Croker is clearly in error in saying (ib. p. 800) that 'Mr. Boswell's absence and
the jealousy between him and some of Johnson's other friends prevented his being able to give
the particulars which he (Mr. Croker) has supplied in the Appendix.' In this Appendix is Mr.
Hoole's narrative which Boswell had seen and used (post, p. 406).

[1221] Psalm lxxxii. 7.

[1222] See Appendix E.

[1223] 'On being asked in his last illness what physician he had sent for, "Dr. Heberden,"
replied he, "ultimus Romanorum, the last of the learned physicians."' Seward's Biographiana,
p. 601.

[1224] Mr. Green related that when some of Johnson's friends desired that Dr. Warren should
be called in, he said they might call in whom they pleased; and when Warren was called, at
his going away Johnson said, 'You have come in at the eleventh hour, but you shall be paid
the same with your fellow-labourers. Francis, put into Dr. Warren's coach a copy of the English
Poets.' CROKER. Dr. Warren ten years later attended Boswell in his last illness. Letters of
Boswell, p. 355. He was the great-grandfather of Col. Sir Charles Warren, G.C.M.G., F.R.S.,
Chief Commissioner of Police. Murphy (Life, p. 122) says that 'for many years, when Johnson
was not disposed to enter into the conversation going forward, whoever sat near his chair might
hear him repeating from Shakespeare [Measure for Measure, act iii. sc. i]:--

     "Ay, but to die and go we know not where;
      To lie in cold obstruction and to rot;
      This sensible warm motion to become
      A kneaded clot; and the delighted spirit
      To bathe in fiery floods."

And from Milton [Paradise Lost, ii. Hawkins records (Life, p. 588) that one day Johnson said
to his doctor:--'How many men in a year die through the timidity of those whom they consult
for health! I want length of life, and you fear giving me pain, which I care not for.' Another
day, 'when Mr. Cruikshank scarified his leg, he cried out, "Deeper, deeper. I will abide the
consequence; you are afraid of your reputation, but that is nothing to me." To those about
him, he said, "You all pretend to love me, but you do not love me so well as I myself do."
'Ib. p. 592. Windham (Diary, p. 32) says that he reproached Heberden with being timidorum timidissimus.
Throughout he acted up to what he had said:--'I will be conquered, I will not capitulate.'
Ante, P. 374.

[1226] Macbeth, act v. sc. 3.

[1227] Satires, x. 356. Paraphrased by Johnson in The Vanity of Human Wishes, at the lines
beginning:--

     'Pour forth thy fervours for a healthful mind,
      Obedient passions and a will resigned.'

[1228] Johnson, three days after his stroke of palsy (ante, p. 230), wrote:--'When I waked,
I found Dr. Brocklesby sitting by me. He fell to repeating Juvenal's ninth satire; but I let
him see that the province was mine.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 274. Malone, in a note to later editions,
shews that Johnson shortly before his death was trying to discover some of his poor relations.

[1230] Mr. Windham records (Diary, p. 28) that the day before Johnson made his will 'he recommended
Frank to him as to one who had will and power to protect him.' He continues, 'Having obtained
my assent to this, he proposed that Frank should be called in; and desiring me to take him
by the hand in token of the promise, repeated before him the recommendation he had just made
of him, and the promise I had given to attend to it.

[1231] Johnson wrote five years earlier to Mrs. Thrale about her husband's will:--'Do not let
those fears prevail which you know to be unreasonable; a will brings the end of life no nearer.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 72.

[1232] 'IN THE NAME OF GOD. AMEN. I, SAMUEL JOHNSON, being in full possession of my faculties,
but fearing this night may put an end to my life, do ordain this my last Will and Testament.
I bequeath to GOD, a soul polluted with many sins, but I hope purified by JESUS CHRIST. I leave
seven hundred and fifty pounds in the hands of Bennet Langton, Esq.; three hundred pounds in
the hands of Mr. Barclay and Mr. Perkins, brewers; one hundred and fifty pounds in the hands
of Dr. Percy, Bishop of Dromore; one thousand pounds, three per cent. annuities, in the publick
funds; and one hundred pounds now lying by me in ready money: all these before-mentioned sums
and property I leave, I say, to Sir Joshua Reynolds, Sir John Hawkins, and Dr. William Scott,
of Doctors Commons, in trust for the following uses:--That is to say, to pay to the representatives
of the late William Innys, bookseller, in St, Paul's Church-yard, the sum of two hundred pounds;
to Mrs. White, my female servant, one hundred pounds stock in the three per cent. annuitites
aforesaid. In witness whereof I hereunto subscribe my name, and affix my seal, this eighth
day of December, 1784.

'Sam Johnson, (L.S.)

     'Signed, scaled, published, declared,
     and delivered, by the
     said testator, as his last will
     and testament, in the presence
     of us, the word two being first
     inserted in the opposite page.

     'GEORGE STRAHAN

     'JOHN DESMOULINS

'By way of Codicil to my last Will and Testament, I, SAMUEL JOHNSON, give, devise, and bequeath,
my messuage or tenement situate at Litchfield, in the county of Stafford, with the appertenances,
in the tenure or occupation of Mrs. Bond, of Lichfield aforesaid, or of Mr. Hinchman, her under-tenant,
to my executors, in trust, to sell and dispose of the same; and the money arising from such
sale I give and bequeath as follows, viz. to Thomas and Benjamin, the sons of Fisher Johnson,
late of Leicester, and ----- Whiting, daughter of Thomas Johnson [F-1], late of Coventry, and
the grand-daughter of the said Thomas Johnson, one full and equal fourth part each; but in
case there shall be more grand-daughters than one of the said Thomas Johnson, living at the
time of my decease, I give and bequeath the part or share of that one to and equally between
such grand-daughters. I give and bequeath to the Rev. Mr. Rogers, of Berkley, near Froom, in
the county of Somerset, the sum of one hundred pounds, requesting him to apply the same towards
the maintenance of Elizabeth Herne, a lunatick [F-2]. I also give and bequeath to my god-children,
the son and daughter of Mauritius Lowe [F-3], painter, each of them, one hundred pounds of
my stock in the three per cent, consolidated annuities, to be applied and disposed of by and
at the discretion of my Executors, in the education or settlement in the world of them my said
legatees. Also I give and bequeath to Sir John Hawkins, one of my Executors, the Annales Ecclesiastici
of Baronius, and Holinshed's and Stowe's Chronicles, and also an octavo Common Prayer-Book.
To Bennet Langton, Esq. I give and bequeath my Polyglot Bible. To Sir Joshua Reynolds, my great
French Dictionary, by Martiniere, and my own copy of my folio English Dictionary, of the last
revision. To Dr. William Scott, one of my Executors, the Dictionnaire de Commerce, and Lectius's
edition of the Greek poets. To Mr. Windham [F-4], Poetae Graeci Heroici per Henricum Stephanum.
To the Rev. Mr. Strahan, vicar of Islington, in Middlesex, Mill's Greek Testament, Beza's Greek
Testament, by Stephens, all my Latin Bibles, and my Greek Bible, by Wechelius. To Dr. Heberden,
Dr. Brocklesby, Dr. Butter, and Mr. Cruikshank, the surgeon who attended me, Mr. Holder, my
apothecary, Gerard Hamilton, Esq., Mrs. Gardiner [F-5], of Snow-hill, Mrs. Frances Reynolds,
Mr. Hoole, and the Reverend Mr. Hoole, his son, each a book at their election, to keep as a
token of remembrance. I also give and bequeath to Mr. John Desmoulins [F-6], two hundred pounds
consolidated three per cent, annuities: and to Mr. Sastres, the Italian master [F-7], the sum
of five pounds, to be laid out in books of piety for his own use. And whereas the said Bennet
Langton hath agreed, in consideration of the sum of seven hundred and fifty pounds, mentioned
in my Will to be in his hands, to grant and secure an annuity of seventy pounds payable during
the life of me and my servant, Francis Barber, and the life of the survivor of us, to Mr. George
Stubbs, in trust for us; my mind and will is, that in case of my decease before the said agreement
shall be perfected, the said sum of seven hundred and fifty pounds, and the bond for securing
the said sum, shall go to the said Francis Barber; and I hereby give and bequeath to him the
same, in lieu of the bequest in his favour, contained in my said Will. And I hereby empower
my Executors to deduct and retain all expences that shall or may be incurred in the execution
of my said Will, or of this Codicil thereto, out of such estate and effects as I shall die
possessed of. All the rest, residue, and remainder, of my estate and effects, I give and bequeath
to my said Executors, in trust for the said Francis Barber, his Executors and Administrators.
Witness my hand and seal, this ninth day of December, 1784.

'SAM. JOHNSON, (L. S.)

     'Signed, sealed, published, declared,
     and delivered, by the
     said Samuel Johnson, as, and
     for a Codicil to his last Will and
     Testament, in the presence of
     us, who, in his presence, and at
     his request, and also in the
     presence of each other, have
     hereto subscribed our names as
     witnesses.

     'JOHN COPLEY.

     'WILLIAM GIBSON.

     'HENRY COLE.'

Upon these testamentary deeds it is proper to make a few observations.

His express declaration with his dying breath as a Christian, as it had been often practised
in such solemn writings, was of real consequence from this great man; for the conviction of
a mind equally acute and strong, might well overbalance the doubts of others, who were his
contemporaries. The expression polluted, may, to some, convey an impression of more than ordinary
contamination; but that is not warranted by its genuine meaning, as appears from The Rambler,
No. 42[F-8]. The same word is used in the will of Dr. Sanderson, Bishop of Lincoln [F-9], who
was piety itself.

His legacy of two hundred pounds to the representatives of Mr. Innys, bookseller, in St. Paul's
Church-yard [F-10], proceeded from a very worthy motive. He told Sir John Hawkins, that his
father having become a bankrupt, Mr. Innys had assisted him with money or credit to continue
his business. 'This, (said he,) I consider as an obligation on me to be grateful to his descendants
[F-11].'

The amount of his property proved to be considerably more than he had supposed it to be. Sir
John Hawkins estimates the bequest to Francis Barber at a sum little short of fifteen hundred
pounds, including an annuity of seventy pounds to be paid to him by Mr. Langton, in consideration
of seven hundred and fifty pounds, which Johnson had lent to that gentleman. Sir John seems
not a little angry at this bequest, and mutters 'a caveat against ostentatious bounty and favour
to negroes [F-12].' But surely when a man has money entirely of his own acquisition, especially
when he has no near relations, he may, without blame, dispose of it as he pleases, and with
great propriety to a faithful servant. Mr. Barber, by the recommendation of his master, retired
to Lichfield, where he might pass the rest of his days in comfort.

It has been objected that Johnson has omitted many of his best friends, when leaving books
to several as tokens of his last remembrance. The names of Dr. Adams, Dr. Taylor [F-13], Dr.
Burney, Mr. Hector, Mr. Murphy, the Authour of this Work, and others who were intimate with
him, are not to be found in his Will. This may be accounted for by considering, that as he
was very near his dissolution at the time, he probably mentioned such as happened to occur
to him; and that he may have recollected, that he had formerly shewn others such proofs of
his regard, that it was not necessary to crowd his Will with their names. Mrs. Lucy Porter
was much displeased that nothing was left to her; but besides what I have now stated, she should
have considered, that she had left nothing to Johnson by her Will, which was made during his
life-time, as appeared at her decease.

His enumerating several persons in one group, and leaving them 'each a book at their election,'
might possibly have given occasion to a curious question as to the order of choice, had they
not luckily fixed on different books. His library, though by no means handsome in its appearance,
was sold by Mr. Christie, for two hundred and forty-seven pounds, nine shillings [F-14]; many
people being desirous to have a book which had belonged to Johnson. In many of them he had
written little notes: sometimes tender memorials of his departed wife; as, 'This was dear Tetty's
book:' sometimes occasional remarks of different sorts. Mr. Lysons, of Clifford's Inn, has
favoured me with the two following:

In Holy Rules and Helps to Devotion, by Bryan Duppa, Lord Bishop of Winton, 'Preces quidam
(? quidem) videtur diligenter tractasse; spero non inauditus (? inauditas).'

In The Rosicrucian infallible Axiomata, by John Heydon, Gent., prefixed to which are some verses
addressed to the authour, signed Ambr. Waters, A.M. Coll. Ex. Oxon. 'These Latin verses were
written to Hobbes by Bathurst, upon his Treatise on Human Nature, and have no relation to the
book.--An odd fraud.'--BOSWELL. [Note: See Appendix F for notes on this footnote.]

[1233] 'He burned,' writes Mrs. Piozzi, 'many letters in the last week, I am told, and those
written by his mother drew from him a flood of tears. Mr. Sastres saw him cast a melancholy
look upon their ashes, which he took up and examined to see if a word was still legible.'--Piozzi
Letters, ii. 383. He mentions (ante, i. 27) that these 'few fragments' had been transferred
to him by the residuary legatee (Francis Barber). One large fragment, which was published after
Barber's death, he could never have seen, for he never quotes from it (ante, i. 35, note 1).

[1235] One of these volumes, Sir John Hawkins informs us, he put into his pocket; for which
the excuse he states is, that he meant to preserve it from falling into the hands of a person
whom he describes so as to make it sufficiently clear who is meant; 'having strong reasons
(said he,) to suspect that this man might find and make an ill use of the book.' Why Sir John
should suppose that the gentleman alluded to would act in this manner, he has not thought fit
to explain. But what he did was not approved of by Johnson; who, upon being acquainted of it
without delay by a friend, expressed great indignation, and warmly insisted on the book being
delivered up; and, afterwards, in the supposition of his missing it, without knowing by whom
it had been taken, he said, 'Sir, I should have gone out of the world distrusting half mankind.'
Sir John next day wrote a letter to Johnson, assigning reasons for his conduct; upon which
Johnson observed to Mr. Langton, 'Bishop Sanderson could not have dictated a better letter.
I could almost say, Melius est sic penituisse quam non errâsse.' The agitation into which Johnson
was thrown by this incident, probably made him hastily burn those precious records which must
ever be regretted. BOSWELL. According to Mr. Croker, Steevens was the man whom Hawkins said
that he suspected. Porson, in his witty Panegyrical Epistle on Hawkins v. Johnson (Gent. Mag.
1787, pp. 751-3, and Porson Tracts, p. 341), says:--'I shall attempt a translation [of Melius
est, &c.] for the benefit of your mere English readers:--There is more joy over a sinner that
repenteth than over a just person that needeth no repentance. And we know from an authority
not to be disputed (Hawkins's Life, p. 406) that Johnson was a great lover of penitents.

     "God put it in the mind to take it hence,
      That thou might'st win the more thy [Johnson's] love,
      Pleading so wisely in excuse of it."

[1236] Henry IV, act iv. sc. 5. 35.

[1238] Windham was scarcely a statesman as yet, though for a few months of the year before
he had been Chief Secretary for Ireland (ante, p 200). He was in Parliament, but he had never
spoken. His Diary shews that he had no 'important occupations.' On Dec. 12, for instance, he
records (p. 30):--'Came down about ten; read reviews, wrote to Mrs. Siddons, and then went
to the ice; came home only in time to dress and go to my mother's to dinner.' See ante, p.
356, for his interest in balloons.

[1239] 'My father,' writes Miss Burney, 'saw him once while I was away, and carried Mr. Burke
with him, who was desirous of paying his respects to him once more in person. He rallied a
little while they were there; and Mr. Burke, when they left him, said to my father:--"His work
is almost done, and well has he done it."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 333. Burke, in 1792,
said in Parliament that 'Dr. Johnson's virtues were equal to his transcendent talents, and
his friendship he valued as the greatest consolation and happiness of his life.' Parl. Debates,
xxx. 109.

[1240] On the same undoubted authority, I give a few articles, which should have been inserted
in chronological order; but which, now that they are before me, I should be sorry to omit:--

'In 1736, Dr. Johnson had a particular inclination to have been engaged as an assistant to
the Reverend Mr. Budworth, then head master of the Grammar-school, at Brewood, in Staffordshire,
"an excellent person, who possessed every talent of a perfect instructor of youth, in a degree
which, (to use the words of one of the brightest ornaments of literature, the Reverend Dr.
Hurd, Bishop of Worcester,) has been rarely found in any of that profession since the days
of Quintilian." Mr. Budworth, "who was less known in his life-time, from that obscure situation
to which the caprice of fortune oft condemns the most accomplished characters, than his highest
merit deserved," had been bred under Mr. Blackwell [Blackwall], at Market Bosworth, where Johnson
was some time an usher [ante, i. 84]; which might naturally lead to the application. Mr. Budworth
was certainly no stranger to the learning or abilities of Johnson; as he more than once lamented
his having been under the necessity of declining the engagement, from an apprehension that
the paralytick affection, under which our great Philologist laboured through life, might become
the object of imitation or of ridicule, among his pupils.' Captain Budworth, his grandson,
has confirmed to me this anecdote.

'Among the early associates of Johnson, at St. John's Gate, was Samuel Boyse [G-1], well known
by his ingenious productions; and not less noted for his imprudence. It was not unusual for
Boyse to be a customer to the pawnbroker. On one of these occasions, Dr. Johnson collected
a sum of money to redeem his friend's clothes, which in two days after were pawned again. "The
sum, (said Johnson,) was collected by sixpences, at a time when to me sixpence was a serious
consideration [G-2]."

'Speaking one day of a person for whom he had a real friendship, but in whom vanity was somewhat
too predominant, he observed, that "Kelly [G-3] was so fond of displaying on his side-board
the plate which he possessed, that he added to it his spurs. For my part, (said he,) I never
was master of a pair of spurs, but once; and they are now at the bottom of the ocean. By the
carelessness of Boswell's servant, they were dropped from the end of the boat, on our return
from the Isle of Sky [G-4]."'

The late Reverend Mr. Samuel Badcock [G-5], having been introduced to Dr. Johnson, by Mr. Nichols,
some years before his death, thus expressed himself in a letter to that gentleman:--

'How much I am obliged to you for the favour you did me in introducing me to Dr. Johnson! Tantùm
vìdi Virgilium [G-6]. But to have seen him, and to have received a testimony of respect from
him, was enough. I recollect all the conversation, and shall never forget one of his expressions.
Speaking of Dr. P---- [Priestley], (whose writings, I saw, he estimated at a low rate,) he
said, "You have proved him as deficient in probity as he is in learning [G-7]." I called him
an "Index-scholar [G-8];" but he was not willing to allow him a claim even to that merit. He
said, that "he borrowed from those who had been borrowers themselves, and did not know that
the mistakes he adopted had been answered by others." I often think of our short, but precious,
visit to this great man. I shall consider it as a kind of an aera in my life.' BOSWELL. [Note:
See Appendix G for notes on this footnote.]

[1241] See ante, i. 152, 501.

[1242] He wrote to Dr. Taylor on Feb. 17, 1776:--'Keep yourself cheerful. Lie in bed with a
lamp, and when you cannot sleep and are beginning to think, light your candle and read. At
least light your candle; a man is perhaps never so much harrassed (sic) by his own mind in
the light as in the dark.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 423.

[1243] Mr. Croker records 'the following communication from Mr. Hoole himself':--'I must mention
an incident which shews how ready Johnson was to make amends for any little incivility. When
I called upon him, the morning after he had pressed me rather roughly to read louder, he said,
"I was peevish yesterday; you must forgive me: when you are as old and as sick as I am, perhaps
you may be peevish too." I have heard him make many apologies of this kind.'

[1244] 'To his friend Dr. Burney he said a few hours before he died, taking the Doctor's hands
within his, and casting his eyes towards Heaven with a look of the most fervent piety, "My
dear friend, while you live do all the good you can." Seward's Biographiana, p. 601

[1245] Mr. Hoole, senior, records of this day:--'Dr. Johnson exhorted me to lead a better life
than he had done. "A better life than you, my dear Sir:" I repeated. He replied warmly, "Don't
compliment not." Croker's Boswell, p. 844

[1246] See  ante, p. 293

[1247] The French historian, Jacques-Auguste de Thou, 1553-1617, author of Historia sui Temporis
in 138 books.

[1248] See ante, ii. 42, note 2.

[1249] Mr. Hutton was occasionally admitted to the royal breakfast-table. "Hutton," said the
King to him one morning, "is it true that you Moravians marry without any previous knowledge
of each other?" "Yes, may it please your majesty," returned Hutton; "our marriages are quite
royal" Hannah More's Memoirs, i. 318. One of his female-missionaries for North American said
to Dr. Johnson:--'Whether my Saviour's service may be best carried on here, or on the coast
of Labrador, 'tis Mr. Hutton's business to settle. I will do my part either in a brick-house
or a snow-house with equal alacrity.' Piozzi's Synonymy, ii. 120. He is described also in the
Memoirs of Dr. Burney, i. 251, 291.

[1250] Ante, ii. 402.

[1251] Burke said of Hussey, who was his friend and correspondent, that in his character he
had made 'that very rare union of the enlightened statesman with the ecclesiastic.' Burke's
Corres. iv. 270.

[1252] Boswell refers, I believe, to Fordyce's epitaph on Johnson in the Gent. Mag. 1785, p.
412, or possibly to an Ode on p. 50 of his poems.

[1253] 'Being become very weak and helpless it was thought necessary that a man should watch
with him all night; and one was found in the neighbourhood for half a crown a night.' Hawkins's
Life of Johnson, p. 589.

[1254] It was on Nov. 30 that he repeated these lines. See Croker's Boswell, p. 843.

[1255] British Synonymy, i. 359. Mrs. Piozzi, to add to the wonder, says that these verses
were 'improviso,' forgetting that Johnson wrote to her on Aug 8, 1780 (Piozzi Letters, ii.
175):--'You have heard in the papers how --- is come to age. I have enclosed a short song of
congratulation which you must not shew to anybody. It is odd that it should come into anybody's
head. I hope you will read it with candour; it is, I believe, one of the author's first essays
in that way of writing, and a beginner is always to be treated with tenderness.' That it was
Sir John Lade who had come of age is shewn by the entry of his birth, Aug. 1, 1759, in the
Gent. Mag. 1759, p. 392. He was the nephew and ward of Mr. Thrale, who seemed to think that
Miss Burney would make him a good wife. (Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 79.) According to Mr. Hayward
(Life of Piozzi, i. 69) it was Lade who having asked Johnson whether he advised him to marry,
received as answer: 'I would advise no man to marry, Sir, who is not likely to propagate understanding.'
See ante, ii. 109, note 2. Mr. Hayward adds that 'he married a woman of the town, became a
celebrated member of the Four-in-Hand Club, and contrived to waste the whole of a fine fortune
before he died.' In Campbell's Chancellors (ed. 1846, v. 628) a story is told of Sir John Ladd,
who is, I suppose, the same man. The Prince of Wales in 1805 asked Lord Thurlow to dinner,
and also Ladd. 'When "the old Lion" arrived the Prince went into the ante-room to meet him,
and apologised for the party being larger than he had intended, but added, "that Sir John was
an old friend of his, and he could not avoid asking him to dinner," to which Thurlow, in his
growling voice, answered, "I have no objection, Sir, to Sir John Ladd in his proper place,
which I take to be your Royal Highness's coach-box, and not your table."'

[1256] British Synonymy was published in 1794, later therefore than Boswell's first and second
editions. In both these the latter half of this paragraph ran as follows:--"From the specimen
which Mrs. Piozzi has exhibited of it (Anecdotes, p. 196) it is much to be wished that the
world could see the whole. After describing the ridiculous and ruinous career of a wild spendthrift
he consoles him with this reflection:--

     "You may hang or drown at last."'

[1257] Sir John.

[1258]'"Les morts n'écrivent point," says Madame de Maintenon.' Hannah More's Memoirs, i. 233.
The note that Johnson received 'was,' says Mr. Hoole, 'from Mr. Davies, the bookseller, and
mentioned a present of some pork; upon which the Doctor said, in a manner that seemed as if
he thought it ill-timed, "too much of this," or some such expression.' Croker's Boswell, p. 844.

[1259] Sir Walter Scott says that 'Reynolds observed the charge given him by Johnson on his
death-bed not to use his pencil of a Sunday for a considerable time, but afterwards broke it,
being persuaded by some person who was impatient for a sitting that the Doctor had no title
to exact such a promise.' Croker's Corres. ii. 34. 'Reynolds used to say that "the pupil in
art who looks for the Sunday with pleasure as an idle day will never make a painter."' Northcote's
Reynolds, i. 119. 'Dr. Johnson,' said Lord Eldon, 'sent me a message on his death-bed, to request
that I would attend public worship every Sunday.' Twiss's Eldon, i. 168. The advice was not
followed, for 'when a lawyer, a warm partisan of the Chancellor, called him one of the pillars
of the Church; "No," said another lawyer, "he may be one of its buttresses; but certainly not
one of its pillars, for he is never found within it."' Ib. iii. 488. Lord Campbell (Lives of
the Chancellors, vii. 716) says:--Lord Eldon was never present at public worship in London
from one year's end to the other. Pleading in mitigation before Lord Ellenborough that he attended
public worship in the country, he received the rebuke, "as if there were no God in town.'"

[1260] Reynolds records:--'During his last illness, when all hope was at an end, he appeared
to be quieter and more resigned. His approaching dissolution was always present to his mind.
A few days before he died, Mr. Langton and myself only present, he said he had been a great
sinner, but he hoped he had given no bad example to his friends; that he had some consolation
in reflecting that he had never denied Christ, and repeated the text, "Whoever denies me, &c."
[St. Matthew x. 33.] We were both very ready to assure him that we were conscious that we were
better and wiser from his life and conversation; and that so far from denying Christ, he had
been, in this age, his greatest champion.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 459.

[1261] Hannah More (Memoirs i. 393) says that Johnson, having put up a fervent prayer that
Brocklesby might become a sincere Christian, 'caught hold of his hand with great earnestness,
and cried, "Doctor, you do not say Amen." The Doctor looked foolishly, but after a pause cried
"Amen"' Her account, however, is often not accurate.

[1262] Windham records (Diary, p. 30) that on the night of the 12th he urged him to take some
sustenance, 'and desisted only upon his exclaiming, "It is all very childish; let us hear no
more of it."' On his pressing him a second time, he answered that 'he refused no sustenance
but inebriating sustenance.' Windham thereupon asked him to take some milk, but 'he recurred
to his general refusal, and begged that there might be an end of it. I then said that I hoped
he would forgive my earnestness; when he replied eagerly, "that from me nothing would be necessary
by way of apology;" adding with great fervour, in words which I shall (I hope) never forget--"God
bless you, my dear Windham, through Jesus Christ;" and concluding with a wish that we might
meet in some humble portion of that happiness which God might finally vouchsafe to repentant
sinners. These were the last words I ever heard him speak. I hurried out of the room with tears
in my eyes, and more affected than I had been on any former occasion.' It was at a later hour
in this same night that Johnson 'scarified himself in three places. On Mr. Desmoulins making
a difficulty of giving him the lancet he said, "Don't you, if you have any scruples; but I
will compel Frank," and on Mr. Desmoulins attempting to prevent Frank from giving it to him,
and at last to restrain his hands, he grew very outrageous, so much so as to call Frank "scoundrel"
and to threaten Mr. Desmoulins that he would stab him.' Ib. p. 32.

[1263] Mr. Strahan, mentioning 'the anxious fear', which seized Johnson, says, that 'his friends
who knew his integrity observed it with equal astonishment and concern.' He adds that 'his
foreboding dread of the Divine justice by degrees subsided into a pious trust and humble hope
in the Divine mercy.' Pr. and Med. preface, p. xv.

[1264] The change of his sentiments with regard to Dr. Clarke, is thus mentioned to me in a
letter from the late Dr. Adams, Master of Pembroke College, Oxford:--'The Doctor's prejudices
were the strongest, and certainly in another sense the weakest, that ever possessed a sensible
man. You know his extreme zeal for orthodoxy. But did you ever hear what he told me himself?
That he had made it a rule not to admit Dr. Clarke's name in his Dictionary. This, however,
wore off. At some distance of time he advised with me what books he should read in defence
of the Christian Religion. I recommended Clarke's Evidences of Natural and Revealed Religion,
as the best of the kind; and I find in what is called his Prayers and Meditations, that he
was frequently employed in the latter part of his time in reading Clarke's Sermons. BOSWELL.
See ante, i. 398.

[1265] The Reverend Mr. Strahan took care to have it preserved, and has inserted it in Prayers
and Meditations, p. 216. BOSWELL.

[1266] See ante, iii. 433.

[1267] The counterpart of Johnson's end and of one striking part of his character may be found
in Mr. Fearing in The Pilgrim's Progress, part ii. '"Mr. Fearing was," said Honesty, "a very
zealous man. 298, note 4.

[1268] Her sister's likeness as Hope nursing Love was painted by Reynolds. Northcote's Reynolds,
i. 185.

[1269] The following letter, written with an agitated hand, from the very chamber of death,
by Mr. Langton, and obviously interrupted by his feelings, will not unaptly close the story
of so long a friendship. The letter is not addressed, but Mr. Langton's family believe it was
intended for Mr. Boswell.

'MY DEAR SIR,--After many conflicting hopes and fears respecting the event of this heavy return
of illness which has assailed our honoured friend, Dr. Johnson, since his arrival from Lichfield,
about four days ago the appearances grew more and more awful, and this afternoon at eight o'clock,
when I arrived at his house to see how he should be going on, I was acquainted at the door,
that about three quarters of an hour before, he breathed his last. I am now writing in the
room where his venerable remains exhibit a spectacle, the interesting solemnity of which, difficult
as it would be in any sort to find terms to express, so to you, my dear Sir, whose own sensations
will paint it so strongly, it would be of all men the most superfluous to attempt to--.'--CROKER.
The interruption of the note was perhaps due to a discovery made by Langton. Hawkins says,
'at eleven, the evening of Johnson's death, Mr. Langton came to me, and in an agony of mind
gave me to understand that our friend had wounded himself in several parts of the body.' Hawkins's
Life, p. 590. To the dying man, 'on the last day of his existence on this side the grave the
desire of life,' to use Murphy's words (Life, p. 135), 'had returned with all its former vehemence.'
In the hope of drawing off the dropsical water he gave himself these wounds (see ante, p. 399).
He lost a good deal of blood, and no doubt hastened his end. Langton must have suspected that
Johnson intentionally shortened his life.

[1270] Servant to the Right Honourable William Windham. BOSWELL.

[1271] Sir Joshua Reynolds and Paoli were among the mourners. Among the Nichols papers in the
British Museum is preserved an invitation card to the funeral.

[1272] Dr. Burney wrote to the Rev. T. Twining on Christmas Day, 1784:--'The Dean and Chapter
of Westminster Abbey lay all the blame on Sir John Hawkins for suffering Johnson to be so unworthily
interred. The Knight's first inquiry at the Abbey in giving orders, as the most acting executor,
was--"What would be the difference in the expense between a public and private funeral?" and
was told only a few pounds to the prebendaries, and about ninety pairs of gloves to the choir
and attendants; and he then determined that, "as Dr. Johnson had no music in him, he should
choose the cheapest manner of interment." And for this reason there was no organ heard, or
burial service sung; for which he suffers the Dean and Chapter to be abused in all the newspapers,
and joins in their abuse when the subject is mentioned in conversation.' Burney mentions a
report that Hawkins had been slandering Johnson. Recreations and Studies of a Country Clergyman
of the XVIII Century, p. 129. Dr. Charles Burney, jun., had written the day after the funeral:--'The
executor, Sir John Hawkins, did not manage things well, for there was no anthem or choir service
performed--no lesson--but merely what is read over every old woman that is buried by the parish.
Dr. Taylor read the service but so-so.' Johnstone's Parr, i. 535. 122.

[1274] On the subject of Johnson I may adopt the words of Sir John Harrington, concerning his
venerable Tutor and Diocesan, Dr. John Still, Bishop of Bath and Wells; 'who hath given me
some helps, more hopes, all encouragements in my best studies: to whom I never came but I grew
more religious; from whom I never went, but I parted better instructed. Of him therefore, my
acquaintance, my friend, my instructor, if I speak much, it were not to be marvelled; if I
speak frankly, it is not to be blamed; and though I speak partially, it were to be pardoned.'
Nugoe Antiquoe, vol. i. p. 136. There is one circumstance in Sir John's character of Bishop
Still, which is peculiarly applicable to Johnson: 'He became so famous a disputer, that the
learnedest were even afraid to dispute with him; and he finding his own strength, could not
stick to warn them in their arguments to take heed to their answers, like a perfect fencer
that will tell aforehand in which button he will give the venew, or like a cunning chess-player
that will appoint aforehand with which pawn and in what place he will give the mate.' Ibid.
BOSWELL.

[1275] The late Right Hon. William Gerard Hamilton. MALONE.

[1276] 'His death,' writes Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 394), 'makes a kind of era in literature.'
'One who had long known him said of him:--'In general you may tell what the man to whom you
are speaking will say next. This you can never do of Johnson.' Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 211.

[1277] Beside the Dedications to him by Dr. Goldsmith [ante, ii. 216], the Reverend Dr. Francklin
[ante, iv. 34], and the Reverend Mr. Wilson [ante, iv. 162], which I have mentioned according
to their dates, there was one by a lady, of a versification of Aningait and Ajut, and one by
the ingenious Mr. Walker [ante, iv. 206], of his Rhetorical Grammar. I have introduced into
this work several compliments paid to him in the writings of his contemporaries; but the number
of them is so great, that we may fairly say that there was almost a general tribute.

Let me not be forgetful of the honour done to him by Colonel Myddleton, of Gwaynynog, near
Denbigh; who, on the banks of a rivulet in his park, where Johnson delighted to stand and repeat
verses, erected an urn with the following inscription:

     'This spot was often dignified by the presence of
                SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D.
     Whose moral writings, exactly conformable to the
              precepts of Christianity,
     Gave ardour to Virtue and confidence to Truth [H-1].'

As no inconsiderable circumstance of his fame, we must reckon the extraordinary zeal of the
artists to extend and perpetuate his image. I can enumerate a bust by Mr. Nollekens, and the
many casts which are made from it; several pictures by Sir Joshua Reynolds, from one of which,
in the possession of the Duke of Dorset, Mr. Humphry executed a beautiful miniature in enamel;
one by Mrs. Frances Reynolds, Sir Joshua's sister; one by Mr. Zoffani; and one by Mr. Opie
[H-2]; and the following engravings of his portrait: 1. One by Cooke, from Sir Joshua, for
the Proprietors' edition of his folio Dictionary.--2. One from ditto, by ditto, for their quarto
edition.--3. One from Opie, by Heath, for Harrison's edition of his Dictionary.--4. One from
Nollekens' bust of him, by Bartolozzi, for Fielding's quarto edition of his Dictionary.--5.
One small, from Harding, by Trotter, for his Beauties.--6. One small, from Sir Joshua, by Trotter,
for his Lives of the Poets.--7. One small, from Sir Joshua, by Hall, for The Rambler.--8. One
small, from an original drawing, in the possession of Mr. John Simco, etched by Trotter, for
another edition of his Lives of the Poets.--9. One small, no painter's name, etched by Taylor,
for his Johnsoniana.--10. One folio whole-length, with his oak-stick, as described in Boswell's
Tour, drawn and etched by Trotter.--11. One large mezzotinto, from Sir Joshua, by Doughty [H-3].--l2.
One large Roman head, from Sir Joshua, by Marchi.--13. One octavo, holding a book to his eye,
from Sir Joshua, by Hall, for his Works.--14. One small, from a drawing from the life, and
engraved by Trotter, for his Life published by Kearsley.--15. One large, from Opie, by Mr.
Townley, (brother of Mr. Townley, of the Commons,) an ingenious artist, who resided some time
at Berlin, and has the honour of being engraver to his Majesty the King of Prussia. This is
one of the finest mezzotintos that ever was executed; and what renders it of extraordinary
value, the plate was destroyed after four or five impressions only were taken off. One of them
is in the possession of Sir William Scott [H-4]. Mr. Townley has lately been prevailed with
to execute and publish another of the same, that it may be more generally circulated among
the admirers of Dr. Johnson.--16. One large, from Sir Joshua's first picture of him, by Heath,
for this work, in quarto.--17. One octavo, by Baker, for the octavo edition.--18. And one for
Lavater's Essay on Physiognomy, in which Johnson's countenance is analysed upon the principles
of that fanciful writer.--There are also several seals with his head cut on them, particularly
a very fine one by that eminent artist, Edward Burch, Esq. R.A. in the possession of the younger
Dr. Charles Burney.

Let me add, as a proof of the popularity of his character, that there are copper pieces struck
at Birmingham, with his head impressed on them, which pass current as half-pence there, and
in the neighbouring parts of the country. BOSWELL. [Note: See Appendix H for notes on this
footnote.]

[1278] It is not yet published.--In a letter to me, Mr. Agutter says, 'My sermon before the
University was more engaged with Dr. Johnson's moral than his intellectual character. It particularly
examined his fear of death, and suggested several reasons for the apprehension of the good,
and the indifference of the infidel in their last hours; this was illustrated by contrasting
the death of Dr. Johnson and Mr. Hume: the text was Job xxi. 22-26.' BOSWELL. It was preached
on July 23, 1786, and not at Johnson's death. It is entitled On the Difference between the
Deaths of the Righteous and the Wicked. Illustrated in the Instance of Dr. Samuel Johnson and
David Hume, Esq. The text is from Job xxi. 23 (not 22)-26. It was published in 1800. Neither
Johnson nor Hume is mentioned in the sermon itself by name. Its chief, perhaps its sole, merit
is its brevity.

[1279] See ante, ii. 335, and iii. 375.

[1280] 'May 26, 1791. After the Doctor's death, Burke, Sir Joshua Reynolds, and Boswell sent
an ambling circular-letter to me begging subscriptions for a monument for him. I would not
deign to write an answer; but sent down word by my footman, as I would have done to parish
officers, with a brief, that I would not subscribe.' Horace Walpole's Letters, ix. 319. In
Malone's correspondence are complaints of the backwardness of the members of the Literary Club
'to pay the amounts nominally subscribed by them.' Prior's Goldsmith, ii. 226.

[1281] It was, says Malone, owing to Reynolds that the monument was erected in St. Paul's.
In his Journey to Flandershe had lamented that sculpture languished in England, and was almost
confined to monuments to eminent men. But even in these it had not fair play, for Westminster
Abbey was so full, that the recent monuments appeared ridiculous being stuck up in odd holes
and corners. On the other hand St. Paul's looked forlorn and desolate. Here monuments should
be erected, under the direction of the Royal Academy. He took advantage of Johnson's death
to make a beginning with the plan which he had here sketched, and induced his friends to give
up their intention of setting up the monument in the Abbey. Reynolds's Works, ed. 1824, ii.
248. 'He asked Dr. Parr--but in vain--to include in the epitaph Johnson's title of Professor
of Ancient Literature to the Royal Academy; as it was on this pretext that he persuaded the
Academicians to subscribe a hundred guineas.' Johnstone's Parr, iv. 686. See ante, ii. 239,
where the question was raised whose monument should be first erected in St. Paul's, and Johnson
proposed Milton's.

[1282] The Reverend Dr. Parr, on being requested to undertake it, thus expressed himself in
a letter to William Seward, Esq.:

'I leave this mighty task to some hardier and some abler writer. The variety and splendour
of Johnson's attainments, the peculiarities of his character, his private virtues, and his
literary publications, fill me with confusion and dismay, when I reflect upon the confined
and difficult species of composition, in which alone they can be expressed, with propriety,
upon his monument.'

But I understand that this great scholar, and warm admirer of Johnson, has yielded to repeated
solicitations, and executed the very difficult undertaking. BOSWELL. Dr. Johnson's Monument,
consisting of a colossal figure leaning against a column, has since the death of our authour
been placed in St. Paul's Cathedral. The Epitaph was written by the Rev. Dr. Parr, and is as
follows:

                    SAMVELI IOHNSON
                 GRAMMATICO ET CRITICO
        SCRIPTORVM ANGLICORVM LITTERATE PERITO
             POETAE LVMINIBVS SENTENTIARVM
           ET PONDERIBVS VERBORVM ADMIRABILI
              MAGISTRO VIRTVTIS GRAVISSIMO
          HOMINI OPTIMO ET SINGVLARIS EXEMPLI
           QVI VIXIT ANN LXXV MENS IL. DIEB XIII
     DECESSIT IDIB DECEMBR ANN CHRIST  cIo Iocc LXXXIIII
       SEPVLT IN AED SANCT PETR WESTMONASTERIENS
       XIII KAL IANVAR ANN CHRIST cIo Iocc LXXXV
              AMICI ET SODALES LITTERARII
                    PECVNIA CONLATA
                  H M FACIVND CVRAVER.

On a scroll in his hand are the following words: [Greek: ENMAKARESSIPONONANTAXIOSEIHAMOIBH].

On one side of the Monument--- FACIEBAT JOHANNES BACON SCVLPTOR ANN. CHRIST. M.DCC.-LXXXXV.

The Subscription for this monument, which cost eleven hundred guineas, was begun by the LITERARY
CLUB. MALONE. See Appendix I.

[1283] '"Laetus sum laudari me," inquit Hector, opinor apud Naevium, "abs te, pater, a laudato
viro."' Cicero, Ep. ad Fam. xv. 6.

[1284] To prevent any misconception on this subject, Mr. Malone, by whom these lines were obligingly
communicated, requests me to add the following remark:--

'In justice to the late Mr. Flood, now himself wanting, and highly meriting, an epitaph from
his country, to which his transcendent talents did the highest honour, as well as the most
important service; it should be observed that these lines were by no means intended as a regular
monumental inscription for Dr. Johnson. Had he undertaken to write an appropriated and discriminative
epitaph for that excellent and extraordinary man, those who knew Mr. Flood's vigour of mind,
will have no doubt that he would have produced one worthy of his illustrious subject. But the
fact was merely this: In Dec. 1789, after a large subscription had been made for Dr. Johnson's
monument, to which Mr. Flood liberally contributed, Mr. Malone happened to call on him at his
house, in Berners-street, and the conversation turning on the proposed monument, Mr. Malone
maintained that the epitaph, by whomsoever it should be written, ought to be in Latin. Mr.
Flood thought differently. The next morning, in the postscript to a note on another subject,
he mentioned that he continued of the same opinion as on the preceding day, and subjoined the
lines above given.' BOSWELL. Cowper also composed an epitaph for Johnson--though not one of
much merit. See Southey's Cowper, v. 119.

[1285] As I do not see any reason to give a different character of my illustrious friend now,
from what I formerly gave, the greatest part of the sketch of him in my Journal of a Tour to
the Hebrides, is here adopted. BOSWELL.

[1286] See ante, i. 41.

[1287] For his fox-hunting see ante, i. 446, note I.

[1288] Lucretius, i. 72.

[1289] See ante, i. 406.

[1290] 'He was always indulgent to the young, he never attacked the unassuming, nor meant to
terrify the diffident.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ii. 343.

[1291] In the Olla Podrida, a collection of Essays published at Oxford, there is an admirable
paper upon the character of Johnson, written by the Reverend Dr. Home, the last excellent Bishop
of Norwich. The following passage is eminently happy: 'To reject wisdom, because the person
of him who communicates it is uncouth, and his manners are inelegant;--what is it, but to throw
away a pine-apple, and assign for a reason the roughness of its coat?' BOSWELL. The Olla Podrida
was published in weekly numbers in 1787 8. Boswell's quotation is from No. 13.

[1292] 'The English Dictionary was written ... amidst inconvenience distraction, in sickness
and in sorrow.' Preface to Johnson's Dictionary, Works, v. 51.

[1293] 'For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required.' Luke, xii. 48.

[1294] 'If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.' I Corinthians,
xv. 19.

[1295] See ante, ii. 262, note 2. Those who judge of things aright, will confess that this
collection is very proper to shew the extent of genius and learning which was the character
of Menage. And I may be bold to say, that the excellent works he published will not distinguish
him from other learned men so advantageously as this. To publish books of great learning, to
make Greek and Latin verses exceedingly well turned, is not a common talent, I own; neither
is it extremely rare, It is incomparably more difficult to find men who can furnish discourse
about an infinite number of things, and who can diversify them an hundred ways. How many authours
are there, who are admired for their works, on account of the vast learning that is displayed
in them, who are not able to sustain a conversation. Those who know Menage only by his books,
might think he resembled those learned men; but if you shew the MENAGIANA, you distinguish
him from them, and make him known by a talent which is given to very few learned men. There
it appears that he was a man who spoke off-hand a thousand good things. His memory extended
to what was ancient and modern; to the court and to the city; to the dead and to the living
languages; to things serious and things jocose; in a word, to a thousand sorts of subjects.
That which appeared a trifle to some readers of the Menagiana, who did not consider circumstances,
caused admiration in other readers, who minded the difference between what a man speaks without
preparation, and that which he prepares for the press. And, therefore, we cannot sufficiently
commend the care which his illustrious friends took to erect a monument so capable of giving
him immortal glory. They were not obliged to rectify what they had heard him say; for, in so
doing, they had not been faithful historians of his conversations.' BOSWELL. Boswell's quotation
from Clarendon (ed. 1826, iv. 242) differs somewhat from the original.

[1297] See ante, ii. 326, and iv. 236.

[1298] See ante, p. iii.

[1299] To this finely-drawn character we may add the noble testimony of Sir Joshua Reynolds:--'His
pride had no meanness in it; there was nothing little or mean about him.' Taylor's Reynolds,
ii. 457.

[1300] In Johnson's character of Boerhaave there is much that applies equally well to himself.
'Thus died Boerhaave, a man formed by nature for great designs, and guided by religion in the
exertion of his abilities. He was of a robust and athletick constitution of body, so hardened
by early severities and wholesome fatigue that he was insensible of any sharpness of air, or
inclemency of weather. He was tall, and remarkable for extraordinary strength. There was in
his air and motion something rough and artless, but so majestick and great at the same time,
that no man ever looked upon him without veneration, and a kind of tacit submission to the
superiority of his genius.... He was never soured by calumny and detraction, nor ever thought
it necessary to confute them; "for they are sparks," said he, "which, if you do not blow them,
will go out of themselves."... He was not to be overawed or depressed by the presence, frowns,
or insolence of great men; but persisted, on all occasions, in the right with a resolution
always present and always calm.... Nor was he unacquainted with the art of recommending truth
by elegance, and embellishing the philosopher with polite literature.... He knew the importance
of his own writings to mankind, and lest he might by a roughness and barbarity of style, too
frequent among men of great learning, disappoint his own intentions, and make his labours less
useful, he did not neglect the politer arts of eloquence and poetry. Thus was his learning
at once various and exact, profound and agreeable.... He asserted on all occasions the divine
authority and sacred efficacy of the holy Scriptures; and maintained that they alone taught
the way of salvation, and that they only could give peace of mind.' Johnson's Works, vi. 288.

[1301] Sir Joshua Reynolds, who was born at Plympton.

[1302] See ante, iii. 43, note 3.

THE END OF THE FOURTH VOLUME.

