In 1889 Work among the Colored was added to the departments, and the work given in charge of
Mrs. Maria R. Douglass, of New York City. In 1891 Miss Sara Collins, of Cortland, was made
superintendent.

Foreign Work was made a department in 1883 and was continued for eight years, the following
ladies acting as superintendents during that time: Mrs. A. K. Knox, of New York City; Mrs.
C. E. Cleveland, of Perry; Mrs. E. F. Lord, of New York City; Mrs. E. M. J. Decker, of Victor;
Miss Rachel Carney, of Tonawanda; Mrs. Clara Vigelius, of New York City, and Mrs. George Aldrich,
of Dutchess Junction.

Mrs. Sarah A. McClees, of Yonkers, was made superintendent of the Department of Soldiers and
Sailors in 1883, and continued as such for three years, Mrs. W. W. Hoag, of Akron, being next
chosen. After one year Miss Emma Nason, of Blodgett Mills, was appointed, and in 1888 the work
was given to Mrs. Mary D. Ferguson, of Syracuse, who is still the superintendent.

Mothers' Meetings were first taken up in 1881, with Mrs. Horace Eaton, of Palmyra, as superintendent.
In 1883 Parlor Meetings were added, Mrs. Eaton still in charge. The following year Mrs. Van
Benschoten, of Newark, was appointed, and in 1886 Parlor Meetings was made a department by
itself, and Mothers' Meetings placed in charge of Mrs. Caroline B. Randall, of Oswego. In 1888
Social Purity and Mothers' Meetings were combined, with Mrs. Mary J. Weaver, of Batavia, superintendent
for one year. She was succeeded by Mrs. Anna E. Rice, of Batavia. The Department of Social
Purity was first taken up in 1886, Mrs. Mary T. Burt being the superintendent until it was
combined with Mothers' Meetings.

From 1888 until the present time the Department of Peace and Arbitration has had but one superintendent,
Mrs. Sarah W. Collins, of Purchase, who has most faithfully carried forward the work.

Under the head of Police Matron Work, Mrs. Harriet Goff, of Brooklyn, did advance work, and
it was Mrs. Goff who, as chairman of the standing committee on Police Matron Work, introduced
into the legislature the bill making the law for police matrons mandatory in New York and Brooklyn.
The work has since been made a department, with Dr. Sarah Morris, of Buffalo, as superintendent.

Rescue Work for Girls, a new department, was added in 1893, and placed in charge of Mrs. Mary
J. Annable, of Brooklyn. This promises to be a most helpful and blessed line of work.

These lines of work are all evangelistic in their nature, and not until the records are read
"up yonder" shall we know of the victories won "In His Name."

MRS. FRANCES W. GRAHAM.

(CORRESPONDING SECRETARY)

Mrs. Graham is just entering upon the fourth year of her office as corresponding secretary
of our state union, and in this time she has eminently proved her fitness for the position
and earned the title of "a model secretary." Born in Lockport, N.Y., she became identified
with temperance work as a child, first belonging to a juvenile society known as Cold Water
Templars, and later becoming a member of the Sons of Temperance and Good Templars. She is active
in all Christian work, being a member of the First Congregational Church of Lockport, in whose
church work she takes prominent part, and whose solo soprano she has been for thirteen years;
she is also an active member of the Christian Endeavor society and the King's Daughters.

