Emmy Lou looked across at the pencil. It was a slate-pencil. A fine, long, new slate-pencil
grandly encased for half its length in gold paper. One bought them at the drug-store across
from the school, and one paid for them the whole of five cents.

Just then a bell rang. Emmy Lou got up suddenly. But it was the bell for school to take up.
So she sat down. She was glad Miss Clara was not yet in her place.

After the Primer Class had filed in, with panting and frosty entrance, the bell rang again.
This time it was the right bell tapped by Miss Clara, now in her place. So again Emmy Lou got
up suddenly and by following the little girl ahead learned that the bell meant, "go out to
the bench."

The Primer Class according to the degree of its infant precocity was divided in three sections.
Emmy Lou belonged to the third section. It was the last section and she was the last one in
it though she had no idea what a section meant nor why she was in it.

Yesterday the third section had said, over and over, in chorus, "One and one are two, two and
two are four," etc.--but to-day they said, "Two and one are three, two and two are four."

Emmy Lou wondered, four what? Which put her behind, so that when she began again they were
saying, "two and four are six." So now she knew. Four is six. But what is six? Emmy Lou did
not know.

When she came back to her desk the pencil was there. The fine, new, long slate-pencil encased
in gold paper. And the little boy was gone. He belonged to the first section, and the first
section was now on the bench. Emmy Lou leaned across and put the pencil back on the little
boy's desk.

Then she prepared herself to copy digits with her stump of a pencil. Emmy Lou's were always
stumps. Her pencil had a way of rolling off her desk while she was gone, and one pencil makes
many stumps. The little boy had generally helped her pick them up on her return. But strangely,
from this time, her pencils rolled off no more.

But when Emmy Lou took up her slate there was a whole side filled with digits in soldierly
rows across, so her heart grew light and free from the weight of digits, and she gave her time
to the washing of her desk, a thing in which her soul revelled, and for which, patterning after
her little girl neighbors, she kept within that desk a bottle of soapy water and rags of gray
and unpleasant nature, that never dried, because of their frequent using. When Emmy Lou first
came to school, her cleaning paraphernalia consisted of a sponge secured by a string to her
slate, which was the badge of the new and the unsophisticated comer. Emmy Lou had quickly learned
that, and no one rejoiced in a fuller assortment of soap, bottle, and rags than she, nor did
a sponge longer dangle from the frame of her slate.

On coming in from recess this same day, Emmy Lou found the pencil on her desk again, the beautiful
new pencil in the gilded paper. She put it back.

But when she reached home, the pencil, the beautiful pencil that costs all of five cents, was
in her companion box along with her stumps and her sponge and her grimy little slate rags.
And about the pencil was wrapped a piece of paper. It had the look of the margin of a Primer
page. The paper bore marks. They were not digits.

Emmy Lou took the paper to Aunt Cordelia. They were at dinner.

"Can't you read it, Emmy Lou?" asked Aunt Katie, the prettiest aunty.

Emmy Lou shook her head.

"I'll spell the letters," said Aunt Louise, the youngest aunty.

But they did not help Emmy Lou one bit.

Aunt Cordelia looked troubled. "She doesn't seem to be catching up," she said.

"No," said Aunt Katie.

"No," agreed Aunt Louise.

"Nor--on," said Uncle Charlie, the brother of the aunties, lighting up his cigar to go downtown.

Aunt Cordelia spread the paper out. It bore the words:

"It is for you."

So Emmy Lou put the pencil away in the companion, and tucked it about with the grimy slate
rags that no harm might befall it. And the next day she took it out and used it. But first
she looked over at the little boy. The little boy was busy. But when she looked up again, he
was looking.

The little boy grew red, and wheeling suddenly, fell to copying digits furiously. And from
that moment on the little boy was moved to strange behavior.

Three times before recess did he, boldly ignoring the preface of upraised hand, swagger up
to Miss Clara's desk. And going and coming, the little boy's boots with copper toes and run-down
heels marked with thumping emphasis upon the echoing boards his processional and recessional.
And reaching his desk, the little boy slammed down his slate with clattering reverberations.

Emmy Lou watched him uneasily. She was miserable for him. She did not know that there are times
when the emotions are more potent than the subtlest wines. Nor did she know that the male of
some species is moved thus to exhibition of prowess, courage, defiance, for the impressing
of the chosen female of the species.

Emmy Lou merely knew that she was miserable and that she trembled for the little boy.

Having clattered his slate until Miss Clara rapped sharply, the little boy rose and went swaggering
on an excursion around the room to where sat the bucket and dipper. And on his return he came
up the center aisle between the sheep and the goats.

Emmy Lou had no idea what happened. It took place behind her. But there was another little
girl who did. A little girl who boasted curls, yellow curls in tiered rows about her head.
A lachrymosal little girl, who affected great horror of the little boys.

And what Emmy Lou failed to see was this: the little boy, in passing, deftly lifted a cherished
curl between finger and thumb and proceeded on his way.

The little girl did not fail the little boy. In the suddenness of the surprise she surprised
even him by her outcry. Miss Clara jumped. Emmy Lou jumped. And the sixty-nine jumped. And,
following this, the little girl lifted her voice in lachrymal lament.

Miss Clara sat erect. The Primer Class held its breath. It always held its breath when Miss
Clara sat erect. Emmy Lou held tightly to her desk besides. She wondered what it was all about.

Then Miss Clara spoke. Her accents cut the silence.

"Billy Traver!"

Billy Traver stood forth. It was the little boy.

"Since you seem pleased to occupy yourself with the little girls, Billy, go to the pegs!"

Emmy Lou trembled. "Go to the pegs!" What unknown, inquisitorial terrors lay behind those dread,
laconic words, Emmy Lou knew not.

She could only sit and watch the little boy turn and stump back down the aisle and around the
room to where along the wall hung rows of feminine apparel.

Here he stopped and scanned the line. Then he paused before a hat. It was a round little hat
with silky nap and a curling brim. It had rosettes to keep the ears warm and ribbon that tied
beneath the chin. It was Emmy Lou's hat. Aunt Cordelia had cautioned her to care concerning it.

The little boy took it down. There seemed to be no doubt in his mind as to what Miss Clara
meant. But then he had been in the Primer Class from the beginning.

Having taken the hat down he proceeded to put it upon his own shock head. His face wore its
broad and constant smile. One would have said the little boy was enjoying the affair. As he
put the hat on, the sixty-nine laughed. The seventieth did not. It was her hat, and besides,
she did not understand.

Miss Clara still erect spoke again: "And now, since you are a little girl, get your book, Billy,
and move over with the girls."

Nor did Emmy Lou understand why, when Billy, having gathered his belongings together, moved
across the aisle and sat down with her, the sixty-nine laughed again. Emmy Lou did not laugh.
She made room for Billy.

Nor did she understand when Billy treated her to a slow and surreptitious wink, his freckled
countenance grinning beneath the rosetted hat. It never could have occurred to Emmy Lou that
Billy had laid his cunning plans to this very end. Emmy Lou understood nothing of all this.
She only pitied Billy. And presently, when public attention had become diverted, she proffered
him the hospitality of a grimy little slate rag. When Billy returned the rag there was something
in it--something wrapped in a beautiful, glazed, shining bronze paper. It was a candy kiss.
One paid five cents for six of them at the drug-store.

On the road home, Emmy Lou ate the candy. The beautiful, shiny paper she put in her Primer.
The slip of paper that she found within she carried to Aunt Cordelia. It was sticky and it
was smeared. But it had reading on it.

"But this is printing," said Aunt Cordelia; "can't you read it?"

Emmy Lou shook her head.

"Try," said Aunt Katie.

"The easy words," said Aunt Louise.

But Emmy Lou, remembering c-a-t, Pussy, shook her head.

Aunt Cordelia looked troubled. "She certainly isn't catching up," said Aunt Cordelia. Then
she read from the slip of paper:

     "Oh, woman, woman, thou wert made
     The peace of Adam to invade."

The aunties laughed, but Emmy Lou put it away with the glazed paper in her Primer. It meant
quite as much to her as did the reading in that Primer: Cat, a cat, the cat. The bat, the mat,
a rat. It was the jingle to both that appealed to Emmy Lou.

About this time rumors began to reach Emmy Lou. She heard that it was February, and that wonderful
things were peculiar to the Fourteenth. At recess the little girls locked arms and talked Valentines.
The echoes reached Emmy Lou.

The valentine must come from a little boy, or it wasn't the real thing. And to get no valentine
was a dreadful--dreadful thing. And even the timidest of the sheep began to cast eyes across
at the goats.

Emmy Lou wondered if she would get a valentine. And if not, how was she to survive the contumely
and shame?

You must never, never breathe to a living soul what was on your valentine. To tell even your
best and truest little girl friend was to prove faithless to the little boy sending the valentine.
These things reached Emmy Lou.

Not for the world would she tell. Emmy Lou was sure of that, so grateful did she feel she would
be to anyone sending her a valentine.

And in doubt and wretchedness did she wend her way to school on the Fourteenth Day of February.
The drug-store window was full of valentines. But Emmy Lou crossed the street. She did not
want to see them. She knew the little girls would ask her if she had gotten a valentine. And
she would have to say, No.

She was early. The big, empty room echoed back her footsteps as she went to her desk to lay
down book and slate before taking off her wraps. Nor did Emmy Lou dream the eye of the little
boy peeped through the crack of the door from Miss Clara's dressing-room.

Emmy Lou's hat and jacket were forgotten. On her desk lay something square and white. It was
an envelope. It was a beautiful envelope, all over flowers and scrolls.

Emmy Lou knew it. It was a valentine. Her cheeks grew pink.

She took it out. It was blue. And it was gold. And it had reading on it.

Emmy Lou's heart sank. She could not read the reading. The door opened. Some little girls came
in. Emmy Lou hid her valentine in her book, for since you must not--she would never show her
valentine--never.

The little girls wanted to know if she had gotten a valentine, and Emmy Lou said, Yes, and
her cheeks were pink with the joy of being able to say it.

Through the day, she took peeps between the covers of her Primer, but no one else might see it.

It rested heavy on Emmy Lou's heart, however, that there was reading on it. She studied it
surreptitiously. The reading was made up of letters. It was the first time Emmy Lou had thought
about that. She knew some of the letters. She would ask someone the letters she did not know
by pointing them out on the chart at recess. Emmy Lou was learning. It was the first time since
she came to school.

But what did the letters make? She wondered, after recess, studying the valentine again.

Then she went home. She followed Aunt Cordelia about. Aunt Cordelia was busy.

"What does it read?" asked Emmy Lou.

Aunt Cordelia listened.

"B," said Emmy Lou, "and e?"

"Be," said Aunt Cordelia.

If B was Be, it was strange that B and e were Be. But many things were strange.

Emmy Lou accepted them all on faith.

After dinner she approached Aunt Katie.

"What does it read?" asked Emmy Lou, "m and y?"

"My," said Aunt Katie.

The rest was harder. She could not remember the letters, and had to copy them off on her slate.
Then she sought Tom, the house-boy. Tom was out at the gate talking to another house-boy. She
waited until the other boy was gone.

"What does it read?" asked Emmy Lou, and she told the letters off the slate. It took Tom some
time, but finally he told her.

Just then a little girl came along. She was a first-section little girl, and at school she
never noticed Emmy Lou.

Now she was alone, so she stopped.

"Get any valentines?"

"Yes," said Emmy Lou. Then moved to confidence by the little girl's friendliness, she added,
"It has reading on it."

"Pooh," said the little girl, "they all have that. My mamma's been reading the long verses
inside to me."

"Can you show them--valentines?" asked Emmy Lou.

"Of course, to grown-up people," said the little girl.

The gas was lit when Emmy Lou came in. Uncle Charlie was there, and the aunties, sitting around,
reading.

"I got a valentine," said Emmy Lou.

They all looked up. They had forgotten it was Valentine's Day, and it came to them that if
Emmy Lou's mother had not gone away, never to come back, the year before, Valentine's Day would
not have been forgotten. Aunt Cordelia smoothed the black dress she was wearing because of
the mother who would never come back, and looked troubled.

But Emmy Lou laid the blue and gold valentine on Aunt Cordelia's knee. In the valentine's center
were two hands clasping. Emmy Lou's forefinger pointed to the words beneath the clasped hands.

"I can read it," said Emmy Lou.

They listened. Uncle Charlie put down his paper. Aunt Louise looked over Aunt Cordelia's shoulder.

"B," said Emmy Lou, "e--Be."

The aunties nodded.

"M," said Emmy Lou, "y--my."

Emmy Lou did not hesitate. "V," said Emmy Lou, "a, l, e, n, t, i, n, e--Valentine. Be my Valentine."

"There!" said Aunt Cordelia.

"Well!" said Aunt Katie.

"At last!" said Aunt Louise.

"H'm!" said Uncle Charlie.

GEORGE MADDEN MARTIN

In the South it is not unusual to give boys' names to girls, so it happens that George is the
real name of the woman who wrote Emmy Lou. George Madden was born in Louisville, Kentucky,
May 3, 1866. She attended the public schools in Louisville, but on account of ill health did
not graduate. She married Atwood R. Martin, and they made their home at Anchorage, a suburb
of Louisville. Here in an old house surrounded by great catalpa trees, with cardinals nesting
in their branches, she was recovering from an illness, and to pass the time began to write
a short story. The title was "How They Missed the Exposition"; when it was sent away, and a
check for seventy-five dollars came in payment, she was encouraged to go on. Her next work
was the series of stories entitled Emmy Lou, Her Book and Heart. This at once took rank as
one of the classics of school-room literature. It had a wide popularity in this country, and
was translated into French and German. One of the pleasant tributes paid to the book was a
review in a Pittsburgh newspaper which took the form of a letter to Emmy Lou. It ran in part
as follows:

     Dear Little Emmy Lou:

     I have read your book, Emmy Lou, and am writing this letter to tell
     you how much I love you. In my world of books I know a great
     assembly of lovely ladies, Emmy Lou, crowned with beauty and
     garlanded with grace, that have inspired poets to song and the
     hearts of warriors to battle, but, Emmy Lou, I love you better than
     them all, because you are the dearest little girl I ever met.

     I felt very sorry for you when the little boy in the Primer World,
     who could so glibly tell the teacher all about the mat and the bat
     and the black rat and the fat hen, hurt your chubby fist by
     snapping an india-rubber band. I do not think he atoned quite
     enough when he gave you that fine new long slate pencil, nor when
     he sent you your first valentine. No, he has not atoned quite
     enough, Emmy Lou, but now that you are Miss McLaurin, you will
     doubtless even the score by snapping the india-rubber band of your
     disdain at his heart. But only to show him how it stings, and then,
     of course, you'll make up for the hurt and be his valentine--won't
     you, Emmy Lou?...

     And when, at twelve years, you find yourself dreaming, Emmy Lou,
     and watching the clouds through the schoolroom window, still I love
     you, Emmy Lou, for your conscience, which William told about in his
     essay. You remember, the two girls who met a cow.

     "Look her right in the face and pretend we aren't afraid," said the
     biggest girl. But the littlest girl--that was you--had a
     conscience. "Won't it be deceiving the cow?" she wanted to know.
     Brave, honest Emmy Lou!

     Yes, I love you, Emmy Lou, better than all the proud and beauteous
     heroines in the big grown-up books, because you are so sunshiny and
     trustful, so sweet and brave--because you have a heart of gold,
     Emmy Lou. And I want you to tell George Madden Martin how glad I am
     that she has told us all about you, the dearest little girl since
     Alice dropped down into Wonderland.

                                                       George Seibel.

The book is more than a delightful piece of fiction. Through its faithful study of the development
of a child's mind, and its criticism of the methods employed in many schools, it becomes a
valuable contribution to education. As such it is used in the School of Pedagogy of Harvard
University.

George Madden Martin told more about Emmy Lou in a second book of stories entitled Emmy Lou's
Road to Grace, which relates the little girl's experience at home and in Sunday school. Other
works from her pen are: A Warwickshire Lad, the story of William Shakespeare's early life;
The House of Fulfillment, a novel; Abbie Ann, a story for children; Letitia; Nursery Corps,
U. S. A., a story of a child, also showing various aspects of army life; Selina, the story
of a young girl who has been brought up in luxury, and finds herself confronted with the necessity
of earning a living without any equipment for the task. None of these has equalled the success
of her first book, but that is one of the few successful portrayals of child life in fiction.

JUST KIDS

That part of New York City known as the East Side, the region south of Fourteenth Street and
east of Broadway, is the most densely populated square mile on earth. Its people are of all
races; Chinatown, Little Hungary and Little Italy elbow each other; streets where the signs
are in Hebrew characters, theatres where plays are given in Yiddish, notices in the parks in
four or five languages, make one rub his eyes and wonder if he is not in some foreign land.
Into this region Myra Kelly went as a teacher in the public school. Her pupils were largely
Russian Jews, and in a series of delightfully humorous stories she has drawn these little citizens
to the life.

"What color from birds be they?" asked Eva.

"All colors.

MYRA KELLY

Is it necessary to say that she was Irish? The humor, the sympathy, the quick understanding,
the tenderness, that play through all her stories are the birthright of the children of Erin.
Myra Kelly was born in Dublin, Ireland. Her father was Dr. John E. Kelly, a well-known surgeon.
When Myra was little more than a baby, the family came to New York City. Here she was educated
at the Horace Mann High School, and afterwards at Teachers College, a department of Columbia
University, New York. She graduated from Teachers College in 1899. Her first school was in
the primary department of Public School 147, on East Broadway, New York, where she taught from
1899 to 1901. Here she met all the "little aliens," the Morris and Isidore, Yetta and Eva of
her stories, and won her way into their hearts. To her friends she would sometimes tell of
these children, with their odd ideas of life and their dialect. "Why don't you write these
stories down?" they asked her, and at last she sat down and wrote her first story, "A Christmas
Present for a Lady." She had no knowledge of editorial methods, so she made four copies of
the story and sent them to four different magazines. Two of them returned the story, and two
of them accepted it, much to her embarrassment. The two acceptances came from McClure's Magazine
and The Century. As McClure's replied first she gave the story to them, and most of her other
stories were first published in that magazine.

When they appeared in book form, they were welcomed by readers all over the country. Even the
President of the United States wrote to express his thanks to her, in the following letter:

                                                     Oyster Bay, N. Y.
                                                       July, 26, 1905.

     My dear Miss Kelly:--

     Mrs. Roosevelt and I and most of the children know your very
     amusing and very pathetic accounts of East Side school children
     almost by heart, and I really think you must let me write and thank
     you for them. When I was Police Commissioner I quite often went to
     the Houston Street public school, and was immensely impressed by
     what I saw there. I thought there were a good many Miss Baileys
     there, and the work they were doing among their scholars (who were
     largely of Russian-Jewish parentage like the children you write of)
     was very much like what your Miss Bailey has done.

                                    Very sincerely yours,
                                               Theodore Roosevelt.

After two years of school room work, Miss Kelly's health broke down, and she retired from teaching,
although she served as critic teacher in the Speyer School, Teachers College, for a year longer.
One of the persons who had read her books with delight was Allen Macnaughton. Soon after he
met Miss Kelly, and in 1905 they were married. They lived for a time at Oldchester Village,
New Jersey, in the Orange mountains, in a colony of literary people which her husband was interested
in establishing. After several years of very successful literary work, she developed tuberculosis.
She went to Torquay, England, in search of health, and died there March 31, 1910.

Her works include the following titles: Little Citizens; The Isle of Dreams; Wards of Liberty;
Rosnah; the Golden Season; Little Aliens; New Faces. One of the leading magazines speaks of
her as the creator of a new dialect.

HERO WORSHIP

