Off the Falkland Islands on June 30, the frigate came in contact with a fleet of American whalers,
and we learned that they hadn't seen the narwhale.  But one of them, the captain of the Monroe,
knew that Ned Land had shipped aboard the Abraham Lincoln and asked his help in hunting a baleen
whale that was in sight. Anxious to see Ned Land at work, Commander Farragut authorized him
to make his way aboard the Monroe.  And the Canadian had such good luck that with a right-and-left
shot, he harpooned not one whale but two, striking the first straight to the heart and catching
the other after a few minutes' chase!

Assuredly, if the monster ever had to deal with Ned Land's harpoon, I wouldn't bet on the monster.

The frigate sailed along the east coast of South America with prodigious speed.  By July 3
we were at the entrance to the Strait of Magellan, abreast of Cabo de las Virgenes.  But Commander
Farragut was unwilling to attempt this tortuous passageway and maneuvered instead to double
Cape Horn.

The crew sided with him unanimously.  Indeed, were we likely to encounter the narwhale in such
a cramped strait? Many of our sailors swore that the monster couldn't negotiate this passageway
simply because "he's too big for it!"

Near three o'clock in the afternoon on July 6, fifteen miles south of shore, the Abraham Lincoln
doubled that solitary islet at the tip of the South American continent, that stray rock Dutch
seamen had named Cape Horn after their hometown of Hoorn.  Our course was set for the northwest,
and the next day our frigate's propeller finally churned the waters of the Pacific.

"Open your eyes!  Open your eyes!" repeated the sailors of the Abraham Lincoln.

And they opened amazingly wide.  Eyes and spyglasses (a bit dazzled, it is true, by the vista
of $2,000.00) didn't remain at rest for an instant.  Day and night we observed the surface
of the ocean, and those with nyctalopic eyes, whose ability to see in the dark increased their
chances by fifty percent, had an excellent shot at winning the prize.

As for me, I was hardly drawn by the lure of money and yet was far from the least attentive
on board.  Snatching only a few minutes for meals and a few hours for sleep, come rain or come
shine, I no longer left the ship's deck.  Sometimes bending over the forecastle railings, sometimes
leaning against the sternrail, I eagerly scoured that cotton-colored wake that whitened the
ocean as far as the eye could see! And how many times I shared the excitement of general staff
and crew when some unpredictable whale lifted its blackish back above the waves. In an instant
the frigate's deck would become densely populated. The cowls over the companionways would vomit
a torrent of sailors and officers.  With panting chests and anxious eyes, we each would observe
the cetacean's movements.  I stared; I stared until I nearly went blind from a worn-out retina,
while Conseil, as stoic as ever, kept repeating to me in a calm tone:

"If master's eyes would kindly stop bulging, master will see farther!"

But what a waste of energy!  The Abraham Lincoln would change course and race after the animal
sighted, only to find an ordinary baleen whale or a common sperm whale that soon disappeared
amid a chorus of curses!

However, the weather held good.  Our voyage was proceeding under the most favorable conditions.
By then it was the bad season in these southernmost regions, because July in this zone corresponds
to our January in Europe; but the sea remained smooth and easily visible over a vast perimeter.

Ned Land still kept up the most tenacious skepticism; beyond his spells on watch, he pretended
that he never even looked at the surface of the waves, at least while no whales were in sight.
And yet the marvelous power of his vision could have performed yeoman service.  But this stubborn
Canadian spent eight hours out of every twelve reading or sleeping in his cabin. A hundred
times I chided him for his unconcern.

"Bah!" he replied.  "Nothing's out there, Professor Aronnax, and if there is some animal, what
chance would we have of spotting it? Can't you see we're just wandering around at random? 
People say they've sighted this slippery beast again in the Pacific high seas-- I'm truly willing
to believe it, but two months have already gone by since then, and judging by your narwhale's
personality, it hates growing moldy from hanging out too long in the same waterways! It's blessed
with a terrific gift for getting around. Now, professor, you know even better than I that nature
doesn't violate good sense, and she wouldn't give some naturally slow animal the ability to
move swiftly if it hadn't a need to use that talent. So if the beast does exist, it's already
long gone!"

I had no reply to this.  Obviously we were just groping blindly. But how else could we go about
it?  All the same, our chances were automatically pretty limited.  Yet everyone still felt
confident of success, and not a sailor on board would have bet against the narwhale appearing,
and soon.

On July 20 we cut the Tropic of Capricorn at longitude 105 degrees, and by the 27th of the
same month, we had cleared the equator on the 110th meridian.  These bearings determined, the
frigate took a more decisive westward heading and tackled the seas of the central Pacific.
Commander Farragut felt, and with good reason, that it was best to stay in deep waters and
keep his distance from continents or islands, whose neighborhoods the animal always seemed
to avoid--"No doubt," our bosun said, "because there isn't enough water for him!"  So the frigate
kept well out when passing the Tuamotu, Marquesas, and Hawaiian Islands, then cut the Tropic
of Cancer at longitude 132 degrees and headed for the seas of China.

We were finally in the area of the monster's latest antics! And in all honesty, shipboard conditions
became life-threatening. Hearts were pounding hideously, gearing up for futures full of incurable
aneurysms.  The entire crew suffered from a nervous excitement that it's beyond me to describe.
Nobody ate, nobody slept. Twenty times a day some error in perception, or the optical illusions
of some sailor perched in the crosstrees, would cause intolerable anguish, and this emotion,
repeated twenty times over, kept us in a state of irritability so intense that a reaction was
bound to follow.

And this reaction wasn't long in coming.  For three months, during which each day seemed like
a century, the Abraham Lincoln plowed all the northerly seas of the Pacific, racing after whales
sighted, abruptly veering off course, swerving sharply from one tack to another, stopping suddenly,
putting on steam and reversing engines in quick succession, at the risk of stripping its gears,
and it didn't leave a single point unexplored from the beaches of Japan to the coasts of America.
And we found nothing!  Nothing except an immenseness of deserted waves!  Nothing remotely resembling
a gigantic narwhale, or an underwater islet, or a derelict shipwreck, or a runaway reef, or
anything the least bit unearthly!

So the reaction set in.  At first, discouragement took hold of people's minds, opening the
door to disbelief.  A new feeling appeared on board, made up of three-tenths shame and seven-tenths
fury. The crew called themselves "out-and-out fools" for being hoodwinked by a fairy tale,
then grew steadily more furious! The mountains of arguments amassed over a year collapsed all
at once, and each man now wanted only to catch up on his eating and sleeping, to make up for
the time he had so stupidly sacrificed.

With typical human fickleness, they jumped from one extreme to the other.  Inevitably, the
most enthusiastic supporters of the undertaking became its most energetic opponents. This reaction
mounted upward from the bowels of the ship, from the quarters of the bunker hands to the messroom
of the general staff; and for certain, if it hadn't been for Commander Farragut's characteristic
stubbornness, the frigate would ultimately have put back to that cape in the south.

But this futile search couldn't drag on much longer. The Abraham Lincoln had done everything
it could to succeed and had no reason to blame itself.  Never had the crew of an American naval
craft shown more patience and zeal; they weren't responsible for this failure; there was nothing
to do but go home.

A request to this effect was presented to the commander. The commander stood his ground.  His
sailors couldn't hide their discontent, and their work suffered because of it. I'm unwilling
to say that there was mutiny on board, but after a reasonable period of intransigence, Commander
Farragut, like Christopher Columbus before him, asked for a grace period of just three days
more.  After this three-day delay, if the monster hadn't appeared, our helmsman would give
three turns of the wheel, and the Abraham Lincoln would chart a course toward European seas.

This promise was given on November 2.  It had the immediate effect of reviving the crew's failing
spirits.  The ocean was observed with renewed care.  Each man wanted one last look with which
to sum up his experience.  Spyglasses functioned with feverish energy. A supreme challenge
had been issued to the giant narwhale, and the latter had no acceptable excuse for ignoring
this Summons to Appear!

Two days passed.  The Abraham Lincoln stayed at half steam. On the offchance that the animal
might be found in these waterways, a thousand methods were used to spark its interest or rouse
it from its apathy.  Enormous sides of bacon were trailed in our wake, to the great satisfaction,
I must say, of assorted sharks. While the Abraham Lincoln heaved to, its longboats radiated
in every direction around it and didn't leave a single point of the sea unexplored.  But the
evening of November 4 arrived with this underwater mystery still unsolved.

At noon the next day, November 5, the agreed-upon delay expired. After a position fix, true
to his promise, Commander Farragut would have to set his course for the southeast and leave
the northerly regions of the Pacific decisively behind.

By then the frigate lay in latitude 31 degrees 15' north and longitude 136 degrees 42' east.
The shores of Japan were less than 200 miles to our leeward.  Night was coming on.  Eight o'clock
had just struck. Huge clouds covered the moon's disk, then in its first quarter. The sea undulated
placidly beneath the frigate's stempost.

Just then I was in the bow, leaning over the starboard rail. Conseil, stationed beside me,
stared straight ahead. Roosting in the shrouds, the crew examined the horizon, which shrank
and darkened little by little.  Officers were probing the increasing gloom with their night
glasses.  Sometimes the murky ocean sparkled beneath moonbeams that darted between the fringes
of two clouds. Then all traces of light vanished into the darkness.

Observing Conseil, I discovered that, just barely, the gallant lad had fallen under the general
influence.  At least so I thought. Perhaps his nerves were twitching with curiosity for the
first time in history.

"Come on, Conseil!"  I told him.  "Here's your last chance to pocket that $2,000.00!"

"If master will permit my saying so," Conseil replied, "I never expected to win that prize,
and the Union government could have promised $100,000.00 and been none the poorer."

"You're right, Conseil, it turned out to be a foolish business after all, and we jumped into
it too hastily.  What a waste of time, what a futile expense of emotion!  Six months ago we
could have been back in France--"

"In master's little apartment," Conseil answered.  "In master's museum! And by now I would
have classified master's fossils. And master's babirusa would be ensconced in its cage at the
zoo in the Botanical Gardens, and it would have attracted every curiosity seeker in town!"

"Quite so, Conseil, and what's more, I imagine that people will soon be poking fun at us!"

"To be sure," Conseil replied serenely, "I do think they'll have fun at master's expense. 
And must it be said . . . ?"

"It must be said, Conseil."

"Well then, it will serve master right!"

"How true!"

"When one has the honor of being an expert as master is, one mustn't lay himself open to--"

Conseil didn't have time to complete the compliment. In the midst of the general silence, a
voice became audible. It was Ned Land's voice, and it shouted:

"Ahoy!  There's the thing in question, abreast of us to leeward!"

CHAPTER 6

At Full Steam

AT THIS SHOUT the entire crew rushed toward the harpooner-- commander, officers, mates,

sailors, cabin boys, down to engineers leaving their machinery and stokers neglecting their
furnaces.  The order was given to stop, and the frigate merely coasted.

By then the darkness was profound, and as good as the Canadian's eyes were, I still wondered
how he could see--and what he had seen. My heart was pounding fit to burst.

But Ned Land was not mistaken, and we all spotted the object his hand was indicating.

Two cable lengths off the Abraham Lincoln's starboard quarter, the sea seemed to be lit up
from underneath.  This was no mere phosphorescent phenomenon, that much was unmistakable. Submerged
some fathoms below the surface of the water, the monster gave off that very intense but inexplicable
glow that several captains had mentioned in their reports.  This magnificent radiance had to
come from some force with a great illuminating capacity. The edge of its light swept over the
sea in an immense, highly elongated oval, condensing at the center into a blazing core whose
unbearable glow diminished by degrees outward.

"It's only a cluster of phosphorescent particles!" exclaimed one of the officers.

"No, sir," I answered with conviction.  "Not even angel-wing clams or salps have ever given
off such a powerful light. That glow is basically electric in nature.  Besides . . . look,
look! It's shifting!  It's moving back and forth!  It's darting at us!"

A universal shout went up from the frigate.

"Quiet!"  Commander Farragut said.  "Helm hard to leeward! Reverse engines!"

Sailors rushed to the helm, engineers to their machinery. Under reverse steam immediately,
the Abraham Lincoln beat to port, sweeping in a semicircle.

"Right your helm!  Engines forward!"  Commander Farragut called.

These orders were executed, and the frigate swiftly retreated from this core of light.

My mistake.  It wanted to retreat, but the unearthly animal came at us with a speed double our own.

We gasped.  More stunned than afraid, we stood mute and motionless. The animal caught up with
us, played with us.  It made a full circle around the frigate--then doing fourteen knots--and
wrapped us in sheets of electricity that were like luminous dust. Then it retreated two or
three miles, leaving a phosphorescent trail comparable to those swirls of steam that shoot
behind the locomotive of an express train.  Suddenly, all the way from the dark horizon where
it had gone to gather momentum, the monster abruptly dashed toward the Abraham Lincoln with
frightening speed, stopped sharply twenty feet from our side plates, and died out-- not by
diving under the water, since its glow did not recede gradually-- but all at once, as if the
source of this brilliant emanation had suddenly dried up.  Then it reappeared on the other
side of the ship, either by circling around us or by gliding under our hull. At any instant
a collision could have occurred that would have been fatal to us.

Meanwhile I was astonished at the frigate's maneuvers.  It was fleeing, not fighting.  Built
to pursue, it was being pursued, and I commented on this to Commander Farragut.  His face,
ordinarily so emotionless, was stamped with indescribable astonishment.

"Professor Aronnax," he answered me, "I don't know what kind of fearsome creature I'm up against,
and I don't want my frigate running foolish risks in all this darkness.  Besides, how should
we attack this unknown creature, how should we defend ourselves against it? Let's wait for
daylight, and then we'll play a different role."

"You've no further doubts, commander, as to the nature of this animal?"

"No, sir, it's apparently a gigantic narwhale, and an electric one to boot."

"Maybe," I added, "it's no more approachable than an electric eel or an electric ray!"

"Right," the commander replied.  "And if it has their power to electrocute, it's surely the
most dreadful animal ever conceived by our Creator.  That's why I'll keep on my guard, sir."

The whole crew stayed on their feet all night long.  No one even thought of sleeping.  Unable
to compete with the monster's speed, the Abraham Lincoln slowed down and stayed at half steam.
For its part, the narwhale mimicked the frigate, simply rode with the waves, and seemed determined
not to forsake the field of battle.

However, near midnight it disappeared, or to use a more appropriate expression, "it went out,"
like a huge glowworm.  Had it fled from us? We were duty bound to fear so rather than hope
so.  But at 12:53 in the morning, a deafening hiss became audible, resembling the sound made
by a waterspout expelled with tremendous intensity.

By then Commander Farragut, Ned Land, and I were on the afterdeck, peering eagerly into the
profound gloom.

"Ned Land," the commander asked, "you've often heard whales bellowing?"

"Often, sir, but never a whale like this, whose sighting earned me $2,000.00."

"Correct, the prize is rightfully yours.  But tell me, isn't that the noise cetaceans make
when they spurt water from their blowholes?"

"The very noise, sir, but this one's way louder.  So there can be no mistake.  There's definitely
a whale lurking in our waters. With your permission, sir," the harpooner added, "tomorrow at
daybreak we'll have words with it."

"If it's in a mood to listen to you, Mr. Land," I replied in a tone far from convinced.

"Let me get within four harpoon lengths of it," the Canadian shot back, "and it had better listen!"

"But to get near it," the commander went on, "I'd have to put a whaleboat at your disposal?"

"Certainly, sir."

"That would be gambling with the lives of my men."

"And with my own!" the harpooner replied simply.

Near two o'clock in the morning, the core of light reappeared, no less intense, five miles
to windward of the Abraham Lincoln. Despite the distance, despite the noise of wind and sea,
we could distinctly hear the fearsome thrashings of the animal's tail, and even its panting
breath.  Seemingly, the moment this enormous narwhale came up to breathe at the surface of
the ocean, air was sucked into its lungs like steam into the huge cylinders of a 2,000-horsepower
engine.

"Hmm!"  I said to myself.  "A cetacean as powerful as a whole cavalry regiment--now that's
a whale of a whale!"

We stayed on the alert until daylight, getting ready for action. Whaling gear was set up along
the railings.  Our chief officer loaded the blunderbusses, which can launch harpoons as far
as a mile, and long duck guns with exploding bullets that can mortally wound even the most
powerful animals.  Ned Land was content to sharpen his harpoon, a dreadful weapon in his hands.

At six o'clock day began to break, and with the dawn's early light, the narwhale's electric
glow disappeared.  At seven o'clock the day was well along, but a very dense morning mist shrank
the horizon, and our best spyglasses were unable to pierce it.  The outcome: disappointment
and anger.

I hoisted myself up to the crosstrees of the mizzen sail. Some officers were already perched
on the mastheads.

At eight o'clock the mist rolled ponderously over the waves, and its huge curls were lifting
little by little.  The horizon grew wider and clearer all at once.

Suddenly, just as on the previous evening, Ned Land's voice was audible.

"There's the thing in question, astern to port!" the harpooner shouted.  Quivering violently,
its tail was creating a considerable eddy.  Never had caudal equipment thrashed the sea with
such power.  An immense wake of glowing whiteness marked the animal's track, sweeping in a
long curve.

Our frigate drew nearer to the cetacean.  I examined it with a completely open mind.  Those
reports from the Shannon and the Helvetia had slightly exaggerated its dimensions, and I put
its length at only 250 feet. Its girth was more difficult to judge, but all in all, the animal
seemed to be wonderfully proportioned in all three dimensions.

While I was observing this phenomenal creature, two jets of steam and water sprang from its
blowholes and rose to an altitude of forty meters, which settled for me its mode of breathing.
From this I finally concluded that it belonged to the branch Vertebrata, class Mammalia, subclass
Monodelphia, group Pisciforma, order Cetacea, family . . . but here I couldn't make up my mind.
The order Cetacea consists of three families, baleen whales, sperm whales, dolphins, and it's
in this last group that narwhales are placed.  Each of these families is divided into several
genera, each genus into species, each species into varieties. So I was still missing variety,
species, genus, and family, but no doubt I would complete my classifying with the aid of Heaven
and Commander Farragut.

The crew were waiting impatiently for orders from their leader. The latter, after carefully
observing the animal, called for his engineer.  The engineer raced over.

"Sir," the commander said, "are you up to pressure?"

"Aye, sir," the engineer replied.

"Fine.  Stoke your furnaces and clap on full steam!"

Three cheers greeted this order.  The hour of battle had sounded. A few moments later, the
frigate's two funnels vomited torrents of black smoke, and its deck quaked from the trembling
of its boilers.

Driven forward by its powerful propeller, the Abraham Lincoln headed straight for the animal.
Unconcerned, the latter let us come within half a cable length; then, not bothering to dive,
it got up a little speed, retreated, and was content to keep its distance.

This chase dragged on for about three-quarters of an hour without the frigate gaining two fathoms
on the cetacean.  At this rate, it was obvious that we would never catch up with it.

Infuriated, Commander Farragut kept twisting the thick tuft of hair that flourished below his chin.

"Ned Land!" he called.

The Canadian reported at once.

"Well, Mr. Land," the commander asked, "do you still advise putting my longboats to sea?"

"No, sir," Ned Land replied, "because that beast won't be caught against its will."

"Then what should we do?"

"Stoke up more steam, sir, if you can.  As for me, with your permission I'll go perch on the
bobstays under the bowsprit, and if we can get within a harpoon length, I'll harpoon the brute."

"Go to it, Ned," Commander Farragut replied.  "Engineer," he called, "keep the pressure mounting!"

Ned Land made his way to his post.  The furnaces were urged into greater activity; our propeller
did forty-three revolutions per minute, and steam shot from the valves.  Heaving the log, we
verified that the Abraham Lincoln was going at the rate of 18.5 miles per hour.

But that damned animal also did a speed of 18.5.

For the next hour our frigate kept up this pace without gaining a fathom! This was humiliating
for one of the fastest racers in the American navy. The crew were working up into a blind rage.
Sailor after sailor heaved insults at the monster, which couldn't be bothered with answering
back. Commander Farragut was no longer content simply to twist his goatee; he chewed on it.

The engineer was summoned once again.

"You're up to maximum pressure?" the commander asked him.

"Aye, sir," the engineer replied.

"And your valves are charged to . . . ?"

"To six and a half atmospheres."

"Charge them to ten atmospheres."

A typical American order if I ever heard one.  It would have sounded just fine during some
Mississippi paddle-wheeler race, to "outstrip the competition!"

"Conseil," I said to my gallant servant, now at my side, "you realize that we'll probably blow
ourselves skyhigh?"

"As master wishes!"  Conseil replied.

All right, I admit it:  I did wish to run this risk!

The valves were charged.  More coal was swallowed by the furnaces. Ventilators shot torrents
of air over the braziers. The Abraham Lincoln's speed increased.  Its masts trembled down to
their blocks, and swirls of smoke could barely squeeze through the narrow funnels.

We heaved the log a second time.

"Well, helmsman?"  Commander Farragut asked.

"19.3 miles per hour, sir."

"Keep stoking the furnaces."

The engineer did so.  The pressure gauge marked ten atmospheres. But no doubt the cetacean
itself had "warmed up," because without the least trouble, it also did 19.3.

What a chase!  No, I can't describe the excitement that shook my very being.  Ned Land stayed
at his post, harpoon in hand. Several times the animal let us approach.

"We're overhauling it!" the Canadian would shout.

Then, just as he was about to strike, the cetacean would steal off with a swiftness I could
estimate at no less than thirty miles per hour. And even at our maximum speed, it took the
liberty of thumbing its nose at the frigate by running a full circle around us! A howl of fury
burst from every throat!

By noon we were no farther along than at eight o'clock in the morning.

Commander Farragut then decided to use more direct methods.

"Bah!" he said.  "So that animal is faster than the Abraham Lincoln. All right, we'll see if
it can outrun our conical shells! Mate, man the gun in the bow!"

Our forecastle cannon was immediately loaded and leveled. The cannoneer fired a shot, but his
shell passed some feet above the cetacean, which stayed half a mile off.

"Over to somebody with better aim!" the commander shouted. "And $500.00 to the man who can
pierce that infernal beast!"

Calm of eye, cool of feature, an old gray-bearded gunner-- I can see him to this day--approached
the cannon, put it in position, and took aim for a good while.  There was a mighty explosion,
mingled with cheers from the crew.

The shell reached its target; it hit the animal, but not in the usual fashion--it bounced off
that rounded surface and vanished into the sea two miles out.

"Oh drat!" said the old gunner in his anger.  "That rascal must be covered with six-inch armor
plate!"

"Curse the beast!"  Commander Farragut shouted.

The hunt was on again, and Commander Farragut leaned over to me, saying:

"I'll chase that animal till my frigate explodes!"

"Yes," I replied, "and nobody would blame you!"

We could still hope that the animal would tire out and not be as insensitive to exhaustion
as our steam engines.  But no such luck. Hour after hour went by without it showing the least
sign of weariness.

However, to the Abraham Lincoln's credit, it must be said that we struggled on with tireless
persistence.  I estimate that we covered a distance of at least 500 kilometers during this
ill-fated day of November 6.  But night fell and wrapped the surging ocean in its shadows.

By then I thought our expedition had come to an end, that we would never see this fantastic
animal again.  I was mistaken.

At 10:50 in the evening, that electric light reappeared three miles to windward of the frigate,
just as clear and intense as the night before.

The narwhale seemed motionless.  Was it asleep perhaps, weary from its workday, just riding
with the waves?  This was our chance, and Commander Farragut was determined to take full advantage
of it.

He gave his orders.  The Abraham Lincoln stayed at half steam, advancing cautiously so as not
to awaken its adversary.  The Canadian went to resume his post on the bobstays under the bowsprit.

The frigate approached without making a sound, stopped two cable lengths from the animal and
coasted.  Not a soul breathed on board. A profound silence reigned over the deck.  We were
not 100 feet from the blazing core of light, whose glow grew stronger and dazzled the eyes.

Just then, leaning over the forecastle railing, I saw Ned Land below me, one hand grasping
the martingale, the other brandishing his dreadful harpoon.  Barely twenty feet separated him
from the motionless animal.

All at once his arm shot forward and the harpoon was launched. I heard the weapon collide resonantly,
as if it had hit some hard substance.

The electric light suddenly went out, and two enormous waterspouts crashed onto the deck of
the frigate, racing like a torrent from stem to stern, toppling crewmen, breaking spare masts
and yardarms from their lashings.

A hideous collision occurred, and thrown over the rail with no time to catch hold of it, I
was hurled into the sea.

CHAPTER 7

A Whale of Unknown Species

ALTHOUGH I WAS startled by this unexpected descent, I at least have a very clear recollection
of my sensations during it.

At first I was dragged about twenty feet under.  I'm a good swimmer, without claiming to equal
such other authors as Byron and Edgar Allan Poe, who were master divers, and I didn't lose
my head on the way down. With two vigorous kicks of the heel, I came back to the surface of
the sea.

My first concern was to look for the frigate.  Had the crew seen me go overboard?  Was the
Abraham Lincoln tacking about? Would Commander Farragut put a longboat to sea?  Could I hope
to be rescued?

The gloom was profound.  I glimpsed a black mass disappearing eastward, where its running lights
were fading out in the distance. It was the frigate.  I felt I was done for.

"Help!  Help!"  I shouted, swimming desperately toward the Abraham Lincoln.

My clothes were weighing me down.  The water glued them to my body, they were paralyzing my
movements.  I was sinking! I was suffocating . . . !

"Help!"

This was the last shout I gave.  My mouth was filling with water. I struggled against being
dragged into the depths. . . .

Suddenly my clothes were seized by energetic hands, I felt myself pulled abruptly back to the
surface of the sea, and yes, I heard these words pronounced in my ear:

"If master would oblige me by leaning on my shoulder, master will swim with much greater ease."

With one hand I seized the arm of my loyal Conseil.

"You!"  I said.  "You!"

"Myself," Conseil replied, "and at master's command."

"That collision threw you overboard along with me?"

"Not at all.  But being in master's employ, I followed master."

The fine lad thought this only natural!

"What about the frigate?"  I asked.

"The frigate?"  Conseil replied, rolling over on his back. "I think master had best not depend
on it to any great extent!"

"What are you saying?"

"I'm saying that just as I jumped overboard, I heard the men at the helm shout, 'Our propeller
and rudder are smashed!' "

"Smashed?"

"Yes, smashed by the monster's tusk!  I believe it's the sole injury the Abraham Lincoln has
sustained.  But most inconveniently for us, the ship can no longer steer."

"Then we're done for!"

"Perhaps," Conseil replied serenely.  "However, we still have a few hours before us, and in
a few hours one can do a great many things!"

Conseil's unflappable composure cheered me up.  I swam more vigorously, but hampered by clothes
that were as restricting as a cloak made of lead, I was managing with only the greatest difficulty.
Conseil noticed as much.

"Master will allow me to make an incision," he said.

And he slipped an open clasp knife under my clothes, slitting them from top to bottom with
one swift stroke.  Then he briskly undressed me while I swam for us both.

I then did Conseil the same favor, and we continued to "navigate" side by side.

But our circumstances were no less dreadful.  Perhaps they hadn't seen us go overboard; and
even if they had, the frigate-- being undone by its rudder--couldn't return to leeward after
us. So we could count only on its longboats.

Conseil had coolly reasoned out this hypothesis and laid his plans accordingly.  An amazing
character, this boy; in midocean, this stoic lad seemed right at home!

So, having concluded that our sole chance for salvation lay in being picked up by the Abraham
Lincoln's longboats, we had to take steps to wait for them as long as possible. Consequently,
I decided to divide our energies so we wouldn't both be worn out at the same time, and this
was the arrangement: while one of us lay on his back, staying motionless with arms crossed
and legs outstretched, the other would swim and propel his partner forward. This towing role
was to last no longer than ten minutes, and by relieving each other in this way, we could stay
afloat for hours, perhaps even until daybreak.

Slim chance, but hope springs eternal in the human breast! Besides, there were two of us. 
Lastly, I can vouch--as improbable as it seems--that even if I had wanted to destroy all my
illusions, even if I had been willing to "give in to despair," I could not have done so!

The cetacean had rammed our frigate at about eleven o'clock in the evening.  I therefore calculated
on eight hours of swimming until sunrise.  A strenuous task, but feasible, thanks to our relieving
each other.  The sea was pretty smooth and barely tired us. Sometimes I tried to peer through
the dense gloom, which was broken only by the phosphorescent flickers coming from our movements.
I stared at the luminous ripples breaking over my hands, shimmering sheets spattered with blotches
of bluish gray. It seemed as if we'd plunged into a pool of quicksilver.

Near one o'clock in the morning, I was overcome with tremendous exhaustion.  My limbs stiffened
in the grip of intense cramps. Conseil had to keep me going, and attending to our self-preservation
became his sole responsibility.  I soon heard the poor lad gasping; his breathing became shallow
and quick.  I didn't think he could stand such exertions for much longer.

"Go on!  Go on!"  I told him.

"Leave master behind?" he replied.  "Never!  I'll drown before he does!"

Just then, past the fringes of a large cloud that the wind was driving eastward, the moon appeared.
The surface of the sea glistened under its rays.  That kindly light rekindled our strength.
I held up my head again.  My eyes darted to every point of the horizon. I spotted the frigate.
It was five miles from us and formed no more than a dark, barely perceptible mass.  But as
for longboats, not a one in sight!

I tried to call out.  What was the use at such a distance! My swollen lips wouldn't let a single
sound through.  Conseil could still articulate a few words, and I heard him repeat at intervals:

"Help!  Help!"

Ceasing all movement for an instant, we listened.  And it may have been a ringing in my ear,
from this organ filling with impeded blood, but it seemed to me that Conseil's shout had received
an answer back.

"Did you hear that?"  I muttered.

"Yes, yes!"

And Conseil hurled another desperate plea into space.

This time there could be no mistake!  A human voice had answered us! Was it the voice of some
poor devil left behind in midocean, some other victim of that collision suffered by our ship?
Or was it one of the frigate's longboats, hailing us out of the gloom?

Conseil made one final effort, and bracing his hands on my shoulders, while I offered resistance
with one supreme exertion, he raised himself half out of the water, then fell back exhausted.

"What did you see?"

"I saw . . . ," he muttered, "I saw . . . but we mustn't talk . . . save our strength . . . !"

What had he seen?  Then, lord knows why, the thought of the monster came into my head for the
first time . . . !  But even so, that voice . . . ? Gone are the days when Jonahs took refuge
in the bellies of whales!

Nevertheless, Conseil kept towing me.  Sometimes he looked up, stared straight ahead, and shouted
a request for directions, which was answered by a voice that was getting closer and closer.
I could barely hear it.  I was at the end of my strength; my fingers gave out; my hands were
no help to me; my mouth opened convulsively, filling with brine; its coldness ran through me;
I raised my head one last time, then I collapsed. . . .

Just then something hard banged against me.  I clung to it. Then I felt myself being pulled
upward, back to the surface of the water; my chest caved in, and I fainted. . . .

For certain, I came to quickly, because someone was massaging me so vigorously it left furrows
in my flesh.  I half opened my eyes. . . .

"Conseil!"  I muttered.

"Did master ring for me?"  Conseil replied.

Just then, in the last light of a moon settling on the horizon, I spotted a face that wasn't
Conseil's but which I recognized at once.

"Ned!"  I exclaimed.

"In person, sir, and still after his prize!" the Canadian replied.

"You were thrown overboard after the frigate's collision?"

"Yes, professor, but I was luckier than you, and right away I was able to set foot on this
floating islet."

"Islet?"

"Or in other words, on our gigantic narwhale."

"Explain yourself, Ned."

"It's just that I soon realized why my harpoon got blunted and couldn't puncture its hide."

"Why, Ned, why?"

"Because, professor, this beast is made of boilerplate steel!"

At this point in my story, I need to get a grip on myself, reconstruct exactly what I experienced,
and make doubly sure of everything I write.

The Canadian's last words caused a sudden upheaval in my brain. I swiftly hoisted myself to
the summit of this half-submerged creature or object that was serving as our refuge.  I tested
it with my foot. Obviously it was some hard, impenetrable substance, not the soft matter that
makes up the bodies of our big marine mammals.

But this hard substance could have been a bony carapace, like those that covered some prehistoric
animals, and I might have left it at that and classified this monster among such amphibious
reptiles as turtles or alligators.

Well, no.  The blackish back supporting me was smooth and polished with no overlapping scales.
On impact, it gave off a metallic sonority, and as incredible as this sounds, it seemed, I
swear, to be made of riveted plates.

No doubts were possible!  This animal, this monster, this natural phenomenon that had puzzled
the whole scientific world, that had muddled and misled the minds of seamen in both hemispheres,
was, there could be no escaping it, an even more astonishing phenomenon-- a phenomenon made
by the hand of man.

Even if I had discovered that some fabulous, mythological creature really existed, it wouldn't
have given me such a terrific mental jolt. It's easy enough to accept that prodigious things
can come from our Creator.  But to find, all at once, right before your eyes, that the impossible
had been mysteriously achieved by man himself: this staggers the mind!

But there was no question now.  We were stretched out on the back of some kind of underwater
boat that, as far as I could judge, boasted the shape of an immense steel fish.  Ned Land had
clear views on the issue.  Conseil and I could only line up behind him.

"But then," I said, "does this contraption contain some sort of locomotive mechanism, and a
crew to run it?"

"Apparently," the harpooner replied.  "And yet for the three hours I've lived on this floating
island, it hasn't shown a sign of life."

"This boat hasn't moved at all?"

"No, Professor Aronnax.  It just rides with the waves, but otherwise it hasn't stirred."

"But we know that it's certainly gifted with great speed. Now then, since an engine is needed
to generate that speed, and a mechanic to run that engine, I conclude:  we're saved."

"Humph!"  Ned Land put in, his tone denoting reservations.

Just then, as if to take my side in the argument, a bubbling began astern of this strange submersible--whose
drive mechanism was obviously a propeller--and the boat started to move.  We barely had time
to hang on to its topside, which emerged about eighty centimeters above water. Fortunately
its speed was not excessive.

"So long as it navigates horizontally," Ned Land muttered, "I've no complaints.  But if it
gets the urge to dive, I wouldn't give $2.00 for my hide!"

The Canadian might have quoted a much lower price. So it was imperative to make contact with
whatever beings were confined inside the plating of this machine.  I searched its surface for
an opening or a hatch, a "manhole," to use the official term; but the lines of rivets had been
firmly driven into the sheet-iron joins and were straight and uniform.

Moreover, the moon then disappeared and left us in profound darkness. We had to wait for daylight
to find some way of getting inside this underwater boat.

So our salvation lay totally in the hands of the mysterious helmsmen steering this submersible,
and if it made a dive, we were done for! But aside from this occurring, I didn't doubt the
possibility of our making contact with them.  In fact, if they didn't produce their own air,
they inevitably had to make periodic visits to the surface of the ocean to replenish their
oxygen supply. Hence the need for some opening that put the boat's interior in contact with
the atmosphere.

As for any hope of being rescued by Commander Farragut, that had to be renounced completely.
We were being swept westward, and I estimate that our comparatively moderate speed reached
twelve miles per hour. The propeller churned the waves with mathematical regularity, sometimes
emerging above the surface and throwing phosphorescent spray to great heights.

Near four o'clock in the morning, the submersible picked up speed. We could barely cope with
this dizzying rush, and the waves battered us at close range.  Fortunately Ned's hands came
across a big mooring ring fastened to the topside of this sheet-iron back, and we all held
on for dear life.

Finally this long night was over.  My imperfect memories won't let me recall my every impression
of it.  A single detail comes back to me. Several times, during various lulls of wind and sea,
I thought I heard indistinct sounds, a sort of elusive harmony produced by distant musical
chords.  What was the secret behind this underwater navigating, whose explanation the whole
world had sought in vain? What beings lived inside this strange boat?  What mechanical force
allowed it to move about with such prodigious speed?

Daylight appeared.  The morning mists surrounded us, but they soon broke up.  I was about to
proceed with a careful examination of the hull, whose topside formed a sort of horizontal platform,
when I felt it sinking little by little.

"Oh, damnation!"  Ned Land shouted, stamping his foot on the resonant sheet iron.  "Open up
there, you antisocial navigators!"

But it was difficult to make yourself heard above the deafening beats of the propeller.  Fortunately
this submerging movement stopped.

From inside the boat, there suddenly came noises of iron fastenings pushed roughly aside. 
One of the steel plates flew up, a man appeared, gave a bizarre yell, and instantly disappeared.

A few moments later, eight strapping fellows appeared silently, their faces like masks, and
dragged us down into their fearsome machine.

CHAPTER 8

"Mobilis in Mobili"

THIS BRUTALLY EXECUTED capture was carried out with lightning speed. My companions and I had
no time to collect ourselves.  I don't know how they felt about being shoved inside this aquatic
prison, but as for me, I was shivering all over.  With whom were we dealing? Surely with some
new breed of pirates, exploiting the sea after their own fashion.

The narrow hatch had barely closed over me when I was surrounded by profound darkness.  Saturated
with the outside light, my eyes couldn't make out a thing.  I felt my naked feet clinging to
the steps of an iron ladder.  Forcibly seized, Ned Land and Conseil were behind me. At the
foot of the ladder, a door opened and instantly closed behind us with a loud clang.

We were alone.  Where?  I couldn't say, could barely even imagine. All was darkness, but such
utter darkness that after several minutes, my eyes were still unable to catch a single one
of those hazy gleams that drift through even the blackest nights.

Meanwhile, furious at these goings on, Ned Land gave free rein to his indignation.

"Damnation!" he exclaimed.  "These people are about as hospitable as the savages of New Caledonia!
All that's lacking is for them to be cannibals!  I wouldn't be surprised if they were, but
believe you me, they won't eat me without my kicking up a protest!"

"Calm yourself, Ned my friend," Conseil replied serenely. "Don't flare up so quickly!  We aren't
in a kettle yet!"

"In a kettle, no," the Canadian shot back, "but in an oven for sure. It's dark enough for one.
Luckily my Bowie knife hasn't left me, and I can still see well enough to put it to use.* The
first one of these bandits who lays a hand on me--"

*Author's Note:  A Bowie knife is a wide-bladed dagger that Americans are forever carrying around.

"Don't be so irritable, Ned," I then told the harpooner, "and don't ruin things for us with
pointless violence. Who knows whether they might be listening to us?  Instead, let's try to
find out where we are!"

I started moving, groping my way.  After five steps I encountered an iron wall made of riveted
boilerplate.  Then, turning around, I bumped into a wooden table next to which several stools
had been set. The floor of this prison lay hidden beneath thick, hempen matting that deadened
the sound of footsteps.  Its naked walls didn't reveal any trace of a door or window.  Going
around the opposite way, Conseil met up with me, and we returned to the middle of this cabin,
which had to be twenty feet long by ten wide.  As for its height, not even Ned Land, with his
great stature, was able to determine it.

Half an hour had already gone by without our situation changing, when our eyes were suddenly
spirited from utter darkness into blinding light.  Our prison lit up all at once; in other
words, it filled with luminescent matter so intense that at first I couldn't stand the brightness
of it.  From its glare and whiteness, I recognized the electric glow that had played around
this underwater boat like some magnificent phosphorescent phenomenon. After involuntarily closing
my eyes, I reopened them and saw that this luminous force came from a frosted half globe curving
out of the cabin's ceiling.

"Finally!  It's light enough to see!"  Ned Land exclaimed, knife in hand, staying on the defensive.

"Yes," I replied, then ventured the opposite view.  "But as for our situation, we're still
in the dark."

"Master must learn patience," said the emotionless Conseil.

This sudden illumination of our cabin enabled me to examine its tiniest details.  It contained
only a table and five stools. Its invisible door must have been hermetically sealed. Not a
sound reached our ears.  Everything seemed dead inside this boat. Was it in motion, or stationary
on the surface of the ocean, or sinking into the depths?  I couldn't tell.

But this luminous globe hadn't been turned on without good reason. Consequently, I hoped that
some crewmen would soon make an appearance. If you want to consign people to oblivion, you
don't light up their dungeons.

I was not mistaken.  Unlocking noises became audible, a door opened, and two men appeared.

One was short and stocky, powerfully muscled, broad shouldered, robust of limbs, the head squat,
the hair black and luxuriant, the mustache heavy, the eyes bright and penetrating, and his
whole personality stamped with that southern-blooded zest that, in France, typifies the people
of Provence.  The philosopher Diderot has very aptly claimed that a man's bearing is the clue
to his character, and this stocky little man was certainly a living proof of this claim.  You
could sense that his everyday conversation must have been packed with such vivid figures of
speech as personification, symbolism, and misplaced modifiers. But I was never in a position
to verify this because, around me, he used only an odd and utterly incomprehensible dialect.

The second stranger deserves a more detailed description. A disciple of such character-judging
anatomists as Gratiolet or Engel could have read this man's features like an open book. Without
hesitation, I identified his dominant qualities-- self-confidence, since his head reared like
a nobleman's above the arc formed by the lines of his shoulders, and his black eyes gazed with
icy assurance; calmness, since his skin, pale rather than ruddy, indicated tranquility of blood;
energy, shown by the swiftly knitting muscles of his brow; and finally courage, since his deep
breathing denoted tremendous reserves of vitality.

I might add that this was a man of great pride, that his calm, firm gaze seemed to reflect
thinking on an elevated plane, and that the harmony of his facial expressions and bodily movements
resulted in an overall effect of unquestionable candor-- according to the findings of physiognomists,
those analysts of facial character.

I felt "involuntarily reassured" in his presence, and this boded well for our interview.

Whether this individual was thirty-five or fifty years of age, I could not precisely state.
He was tall, his forehead broad, his nose straight, his mouth clearly etched, his teeth magnificent,
his hands refined, tapered, and to use a word from palmistry, highly "psychic," in other words,
worthy of serving a lofty and passionate spirit.  This man was certainly the most wonderful
physical specimen I had ever encountered.  One unusual detail: his eyes were spaced a little
far from each other and could instantly take in nearly a quarter of the horizon.  This ability--
as I later verified--was strengthened by a range of vision even greater than Ned Land's. When
this stranger focused his gaze on an object, his eyebrow lines gathered into a frown, his heavy
eyelids closed around his pupils to contract his huge field of vision, and he looked! What
a look--as if he could magnify objects shrinking into the distance; as if he could probe your
very soul; as if he could pierce those sheets of water so opaque to our eyes and scan the deepest
seas . . . !

Wearing caps made of sea-otter fur, and shod in sealskin fishing boots, these two strangers
were dressed in clothing made from some unique fabric that flattered the figure and allowed
great freedom of movement.

The taller of the two--apparently the leader on board--examined us with the greatest care but
without pronouncing a word.  Then, turning to his companion, he conversed with him in a language
I didn't recognize. It was a sonorous, harmonious, flexible dialect whose vowels seemed to
undergo a highly varied accentuation.

The other replied with a shake of the head and added two or three utterly incomprehensible
words.  Then he seemed to question me directly with a long stare.

I replied in clear French that I wasn't familiar with his language; but he didn't seem to understand
me, and the situation grew rather baffling.

"Still, master should tell our story," Conseil said to me. "Perhaps these gentlemen will grasp
a few words of it!"

I tried again, telling the tale of our adventures, clearly articulating my every syllable,
and not leaving out a single detail.  I stated our names and titles; then, in order, I introduced
Professor Aronnax, his manservant Conseil, and Mr. Ned Land, harpooner.

The man with calm, gentle eyes listened to me serenely, even courteously, and paid remarkable
attention.  But nothing in his facial expression indicated that he understood my story. When
I finished, he didn't pronounce a single word.

One resource still left was to speak English.  Here, however, our overriding need was to make
ourselves understood.

"Come on, it's your turn," I told the harpooner.  "Over to you, Mr. Land.  Pull out of your
bag of tricks the best English ever spoken by an Anglo-Saxon, and try for a more favorable
result than mine."

Ned needed no persuading and started our story all over again, most of which I could follow.
Its content was the same, but the form differed.  Carried away by his volatile temperament,
the Canadian put great animation into it.  He complained vehemently about being imprisoned
in defiance of his civil rights, asked by virtue of which law he was hereby detained, invoked
writs of habeas corpus, threatened to press charges against anyone holding him in illegal custody,
ranted, gesticulated, shouted, and finally conveyed by an expressive gesture that we were dying
of hunger.

This was perfectly true, but we had nearly forgotten the fact.

Much to his amazement, the harpooner seemed no more intelligible than I had been.  Our visitors
didn't bat an eye.  Apparently they were engineers who understood the languages of neither
the French physicist Arago nor the English physicist Faraday.

Thoroughly baffled after vainly exhausting our philological resources, I no longer knew what
tactic to pursue, when Conseil told me:

"If master will authorize me, I'll tell the whole business in German."

"What!  You know German?"  I exclaimed.

"Like most Flemish people, with all due respect to master."

"On the contrary, my respect is due you.  Go to it, my boy."

And Conseil, in his serene voice, described for the third time the various vicissitudes of
our story.  But despite our narrator's fine accent and stylish turns of phrase, the German
language met with no success.

Finally, as a last resort, I hauled out everything I could remember from my early schooldays,
and I tried to narrate our adventures in Latin.  Cicero would have plugged his ears and sent
me to the scullery, but somehow I managed to pull through. With the same negative result.

This last attempt ultimately misfiring, the two strangers exchanged a few words in their incomprehensible
language and withdrew, not even favoring us with one of those encouraging gestures that are
used in every country in the world.  The door closed again.

"This is outrageous!"  Ned Land shouted, exploding for the twentieth time.  "I ask you!  We
speak French, English, German, and Latin to these rogues, and neither of them has the decency
to even answer back!"

"Calm down, Ned," I told the seething harpooner.  "Anger won't get us anywhere."

"But professor," our irascible companion went on, "can't you see that we could die of hunger
in this iron cage?"

"Bah!"  Conseil put in philosophically.  "We can hold out a good while yet!"

"My friends," I said, "we mustn't despair.  We've gotten out of tighter spots.  So please do
me the favor of waiting a bit before you form your views on the commander and crew of this boat."

"My views are fully formed," Ned Land shot back.  "They're rogues!"

"Oh good!  And from what country?"

"Roguedom!"

"My gallant Ned, as yet that country isn't clearly marked on maps of the world, but I admit
that the nationality of these two strangers is hard to make out!  Neither English, French,
nor German, that's all we can say. But I'm tempted to think that the commander and his chief
officer were born in the low latitudes.  There must be southern blood in them. But as to whether
they're Spaniards, Turks, Arabs, or East Indians, their physical characteristics don't give
me enough to go on. And as for their speech, it's utterly incomprehensible."

"That's the nuisance in not knowing every language," Conseil replied, "or the drawback in not
having one universal language!"

"Which would all go out the window!"  Ned Land replied. "Don't you see, these people have a
language all to themselves, a language they've invented just to cause despair in decent people
who ask for a little dinner!  Why, in every country on earth, when you open your mouth, snap
your jaws, smack your lips and teeth, isn't that the world's most understandable message? 
From Quebec to the Tuamotu Islands, from Paris to the Antipodes, doesn't it mean: I'm hungry,
give me a bite to eat!"

"Oh," Conseil put in, "there are some people so unintelligent by nature . . ."

As he was saying these words, the door opened.  A steward entered.* He brought us some clothes,
jackets and sailor's pants, made out of a fabric whose nature I didn't recognize. I hurried
to change into them, and my companions followed suit.

*Author's Note:  A steward is a waiter on board a steamer.

Meanwhile our silent steward, perhaps a deaf-mute, set the table and laid three place settings.

"There's something serious afoot," Conseil said, "and it bodes well."

"Bah!" replied the rancorous harpooner.  "What the devil do you suppose they eat around here?
Turtle livers, loin of shark, dogfish steaks?"

"We'll soon find out!"  Conseil said.

Overlaid with silver dish covers, various platters had been neatly positioned on the table
cloth, and we sat down to eat. Assuredly, we were dealing with civilized people, and if it
hadn't been for this electric light flooding over us, I would have thought we were in the dining
room of the Hotel Adelphi in Liverpool, or the Grand Hotel in Paris.  However, I feel compelled
to mention that bread and wine were totally absent.  The water was fresh and clear, but it
was still water--which wasn't what Ned Land had in mind. Among the foods we were served, I
was able to identify various daintily dressed fish; but I couldn't make up my mind about certain
otherwise excellent dishes, and I couldn't even tell whether their contents belonged to the
vegetable or the animal kingdom.  It was a highly appropriate motto for this underwater machine,
so long as the preposition in is translated as within and not upon.  The letter N was no doubt
the initial of the name of that mystifying individual in command beneath the seas!

Ned and Conseil had no time for such musings.  They were wolfing down their food, and without
further ado I did the same. By now I felt reassured about our fate, and it seemed obvious that
our hosts didn't intend to let us die of starvation.

But all earthly things come to an end, all things must pass, even the hunger of people who
haven't eaten for fifteen hours. Our appetites appeased, we felt an urgent need for sleep.
A natural reaction after that interminable night of fighting for our lives.

"Ye gods, I'll sleep soundly," Conseil said.

"Me, I'm out like a light!"  Ned Land replied.

My two companions lay down on the cabin's carpeting and were soon deep in slumber.

As for me, I gave in less readily to this intense need for sleep. Too many thoughts had piled
up in my mind, too many insoluble questions had arisen, too many images were keeping my eyelids
open! Where were we?  What strange power was carrying us along? I felt--or at least I thought
I did--the submersible sinking toward the sea's lower strata.  Intense nightmares besieged
me. In these mysterious marine sanctuaries, I envisioned hosts of unknown animals, and this
underwater boat seemed to be a blood relation of theirs:  living, breathing, just as fearsome
. . . ! Then my mind grew calmer, my imagination melted into hazy drowsiness, and I soon fell
into an uneasy slumber.

CHAPTER 9

The Tantrums of Ned Land

I HAVE NO IDEA how long this slumber lasted; but it must have been a good while, since we were

completely over our exhaustion.  I was the first one to wake up. My companions weren't yet
stirring and still lay in their corners like inanimate objects.

I had barely gotten up from my passably hard mattress when I felt my mind clear, my brain go
on the alert.  So I began a careful reexamination of our cell.

Nothing had changed in its interior arrangements. The prison was still a prison and its prisoners
still prisoners. But, taking advantage of our slumber, the steward had cleared the table. Consequently,
nothing indicated any forthcoming improvement in our situation, and I seriously wondered if
we were doomed to spend the rest of our lives in this cage.

This prospect seemed increasingly painful to me because, even though my brain was clear of
its obsessions from the night before, I was feeling an odd short-windedness in my chest.  It
was becoming hard for me to breathe.  The heavy air was no longer sufficient for the full play
of my lungs.  Although our cell was large, we obviously had used up most of the oxygen it contained.
In essence, over an hour's time a single human being consumes all the oxygen found in 100 liters
of air, at which point that air has become charged with a nearly equal amount of carbon dioxide
and is no longer fit for breathing.

So it was now urgent to renew the air in our prison, and no doubt the air in this whole underwater
boat as well.

Here a question popped into my head.  How did the commander of this aquatic residence go about
it?  Did he obtain air using chemical methods, releasing the oxygen contained in potassium
chlorate by heating it, meanwhile absorbing the carbon dioxide with potassium hydroxide? If
so, he would have to keep up some kind of relationship with the shore, to come by the materials
needed for such an operation. Did he simply limit himself to storing the air in high-pressure
tanks and then dispense it according to his crew's needs? Perhaps.  Or, proceeding in a more
convenient, more economical, and consequently more probable fashion, was he satisfied with
merely returning to breathe at the surface of the water like a cetacean, renewing his oxygen
supply every twenty-four hours?  In any event, whatever his method was, it seemed prudent to
me that he use this method without delay.

In fact, I had already resorted to speeding up my inhalations in order to extract from the
cell what little oxygen it contained, when suddenly I was refreshed by a current of clean air,
scented with a salty aroma. It had to be a sea breeze, life-giving and charged with iodine!
I opened my mouth wide, and my lungs glutted themselves on the fresh particles.  At the same
time, I felt a swaying, a rolling of moderate magnitude but definitely noticeable. This boat,
this sheet-iron monster, had obviously just risen to the surface of the ocean, there to breathe
in good whale fashion. So the ship's mode of ventilation was finally established.

When I had absorbed a chestful of this clean air, I looked for the conduit--the "air carrier,"
if you prefer--that allowed this beneficial influx to reach us, and I soon found it. Above
the door opened an air vent that let in a fresh current of oxygen, renewing the thin air in
our cell.

I had gotten to this point in my observations when Ned and Conseil woke up almost simultaneously,
under the influence of this reviving air purification.  They rubbed their eyes, stretched their
arms, and sprang to their feet.

"Did master sleep well?"  Conseil asked me with his perennial good manners.

"Extremely well, my gallant lad," I replied.  "And how about you, Mr. Ned Land?"

"Like a log, professor.  But I must be imagining things, because it seems like I'm breathing
a sea breeze!"

A seaman couldn't be wrong on this topic, and I told the Canadian what had gone on while he slept.

"Good!" he said.  "That explains perfectly all that bellowing we heard, when our so-called
narwhale lay in sight of the Abraham Lincoln."

"Perfectly, Mr. Land.  It was catching its breath!"

"Only I've no idea what time it is, Professor Aronnax, unless maybe it's dinnertime?"

"Dinnertime, my fine harpooner?  I'd say at least breakfast time, because we've certainly woken
up to a new day."

"Which indicates," Conseil replied, "that we've spent twenty-four hours in slumber."

"That's my assessment," I replied.

"I won't argue with you," Ned Land answered.  "But dinner or breakfast, that steward will be
plenty welcome whether he brings the one or the other."

"The one and the other," Conseil said.

"Well put," the Canadian replied.  "We deserve two meals, and speaking for myself, I'll do
justice to them both."

"All right, Ned, let's wait and see!"  I replied.  "It's clear that these strangers don't intend
to let us die of hunger, otherwise last evening's dinner wouldn't make any sense."

"Unless they're fattening us up!"  Ned shot back.

"I object," I replied.  "We have not fallen into the hands of cannibals."

"Just because they don't make a habit of it," the Canadian replied in all seriousness, "doesn't
mean they don't indulge from time to time. Who knows?  Maybe these people have gone without
fresh meat for a long while, and in that case three healthy, well-built specimens like the
professor, his manservant, and me ---"

"Get rid of those ideas, Mr. Land," I answered the harpooner. "And above all, don't let them
lead you to flare up against our hosts, which would only make our situation worse."

"Anyhow," the harpooner said, "I'm as hungry as all Hades, and dinner or breakfast, not one
puny meal has arrived!"

"Mr. Land," I answered, "we have to adapt to the schedule on board, and I imagine our stomachs
are running ahead of the chief cook's dinner bell."

"Well then, we'll adjust our stomachs to the chef's timetable!" Conseil replied serenely.

"There you go again, Conseil my friend!" the impatient Canadian shot back.  "You never allow
yourself any displays of bile or attacks of nerves!  You're everlastingly calm!  You'd say
your after-meal grace even if you didn't get any food for your before-meal blessing-- and you'd
starve to death rather than complain!"

"What good would it do?"  Conseil asked.

"Complaining doesn't have to do good, it just feels good! And if these pirates--I say pirates
out of consideration for the professor's feelings, since he doesn't want us to call them cannibals--
if these pirates think they're going to smother me in this cage without hearing what cusswords
spice up my outbursts, they've got another think coming!  Look here, Professor Aronnax, speak
frankly. How long do you figure they'll keep us in this iron box?"

"To tell the truth, friend Land, I know little more about it than you do."

"But in a nutshell, what do you suppose is going on?"

"My supposition is that sheer chance has made us privy to an important secret.  Now then, if
the crew of this underwater boat have a personal interest in keeping that secret, and if their
personal interest is more important than the lives of three men, I believe that our very existence
is in jeopardy. If such is not the case, then at the first available opportunity, this monster
that has swallowed us will return us to the world inhabited by our own kind."

"Unless they recruit us to serve on the crew," Conseil said, "and keep us here--"

"Till the moment," Ned Land answered, "when some frigate that's faster or smarter than the
Abraham Lincoln captures this den of buccaneers, then hangs all of us by the neck from the
tip of a mainmast yardarm!"

"Well thought out, Mr. Land," I replied.  "But as yet, I don't believe we've been tendered
any enlistment offers.  Consequently, it's pointless to argue about what tactics we should
pursue in such a case. I repeat:  let's wait, let's be guided by events, and let's do nothing,
since right now there's nothing we can do."

"On the contrary, professor," the harpooner replied, not wanting to give in.  "There is something
we can do."

"Oh?  And what, Mr. Land?"

"Break out of here!"

"Breaking out of a prison on shore is difficult enough, but with an underwater prison, it strikes
me as completely unworkable."

"Come now, Ned my friend," Conseil asked, "how would you answer master's objection?  I refuse
to believe that an American is at the end of his tether."

Visibly baffled, the harpooner said nothing.  Under the conditions in which fate had left us,
it was absolutely impossible to escape. But a Canadian's wit is half French, and Mr. Ned Land
made this clear in his reply.

"So, Professor Aronnax," he went on after thinking for a few moments, "you haven't figured
out what people do when they can't escape from their prison?"

"No, my friend."

"Easy.  They fix things so they stay there."

"Of course!"  Conseil put in.  "Since we're deep in the ocean, being inside this boat is vastly
preferable to being above it or below it!"

"But we fix things by kicking out all the jailers, guards, and wardens," Ned Land added.

"What's this, Ned?"  I asked.  "You'd seriously consider taking over this craft?"

"Very seriously," the Canadian replied.

"It's impossible."

"And why is that, sir?  Some promising opportunity might come up, and I don't see what could
stop us from taking advantage of it. If there are only about twenty men on board this machine,
I don't think they can stave off two Frenchmen and a Canadian!"

It seemed wiser to accept the harpooner's proposition than to debate it. Accordingly, I was
content to reply:

"Let such circumstances come, Mr. Land, and we'll see.  But until then, I beg you to control
your impatience.  We need to act shrewdly, and your flare-ups won't give rise to any promising
opportunities. So swear to me that you'll accept our situation without throwing a tantrum over it."

"I give you my word, professor," Ned Land replied in an unenthusiastic tone.  "No vehement
phrases will leave my mouth, no vicious gestures will give my feelings away, not even when
they don't feed us on time."

"I have your word, Ned," I answered the Canadian.

Then our conversation petered out, and each of us withdrew into his own thoughts.  For my part,
despite the harpooner's confident talk, I admit that I entertained no illusions. I had no faith
in those promising opportunities that Ned Land mentioned. To operate with such efficiency,
this underwater boat had to have a sizeable crew, so if it came to a physical contest, we would
be facing an overwhelming opponent.  Besides, before we could do anything, we had to be free,
and that we definitely were not. I didn't see any way out of this sheet-iron, hermetically
sealed cell. And if the strange commander of this boat did have a secret to keep-- which seemed
rather likely--he would never give us freedom of movement aboard his vessel.  Now then, would
he resort to violence in order to be rid of us, or would he drop us off one day on some remote
coast? There lay the unknown.  All these hypotheses seemed extremely plausible to me, and to
hope for freedom through use of force, you had to be a harpooner.

I realized, moreover, that Ned Land's brooding was getting him madder by the minute.  Little
by little, I heard those aforesaid cusswords welling up in the depths of his gullet, and I
saw his movements turn threatening again.  He stood up, pacing in circles like a wild beast
in a cage, striking the walls with his foot and fist.  Meanwhile the hours passed, our hunger
nagged unmercifully, and this time the steward did not appear. Which amounted to forgetting
our castaway status for much too long, if they really had good intentions toward us.

Tortured by the growling of his well-built stomach, Ned Land was getting more and more riled,
and despite his word of honor, I was in real dread of an explosion when he stood in the presence
of one of the men on board.

For two more hours Ned Land's rage increased.  The Canadian shouted and pleaded, but to no
avail.  The sheet-iron walls were deaf. I didn't hear a single sound inside this dead-seeming
boat. The vessel hadn't stirred, because I obviously would have felt its hull vibrating under
the influence of the propeller.  It had undoubtedly sunk into the watery deep and no longer
belonged to the outside world. All this dismal silence was terrifying.

As for our neglect, our isolation in the depths of this cell, I was afraid to guess at how
long it might last.  Little by little, hopes I had entertained after our interview with the
ship's commander were fading away.  The gentleness of the man's gaze, the generosity expressed
in his facial features, the nobility of his bearing, all vanished from my memory.  I saw this
mystifying individual anew for what he inevitably must be:  cruel and merciless. I viewed him
as outside humanity, beyond all feelings of compassion, the implacable foe of his fellow man,
toward whom he must have sworn an undying hate!

But even so, was the man going to let us die of starvation, locked up in this cramped prison,
exposed to those horrible temptations to which people are driven by extreme hunger? This grim
possibility took on a dreadful intensity in my mind, and fired by my imagination, I felt an
unreasoning terror run through me. Conseil stayed calm.  Ned Land bellowed.

Just then a noise was audible outside.  Footsteps rang on the metal tiling.  The locks were
turned, the door opened, the steward appeared.

Before I could make a single movement to prevent him, the Canadian rushed at the poor man,
threw him down, held him by the throat. The steward was choking in the grip of those powerful
hands.

Conseil was already trying to loosen the harpooner's hands from his half-suffocated victim,
and I had gone to join in the rescue, when I was abruptly nailed to the spot by these words
pronounced in French:

"Calm down, Mr. Land!  And you, professor, kindly listen to me!"

CHAPTER 10

The Man of the Waters

IT WAS THE ship's commander who had just spoken.

At these words Ned Land stood up quickly.  Nearly strangled, the steward staggered out at a
signal from his superior; but such was the commander's authority aboard his vessel, not one
gesture gave away the resentment that this man must have felt toward the Canadian.  In silence
we waited for the outcome of this scene; Conseil, in spite of himself, seemed almost fascinated,
I was stunned.

Arms crossed, leaning against a corner of the table, the commander studied us with great care.
Was he reluctant to speak further? Did he regret those words he had just pronounced in French?
You would have thought so. Hence I could have answered you as early as our initial interview,
but first I wanted to make your acquaintance and then think things over. Your four versions
of the same narrative, perfectly consistent by and large, established your personal identities
for me.  I now know that sheer chance has placed in my presence Professor Pierre Aronnax, specialist
in natural history at the Paris Museum and entrusted with a scientific mission abroad, his
manservant Conseil, and Ned Land, a harpooner of Canadian origin aboard the Abraham Lincoln,
a frigate in the national navy of the United States of America."

I bowed in agreement.  The commander hadn't put a question to me. So no answer was called for.
This man expressed himself with perfect ease and without a trace of an accent.  His phrasing
was clear, his words well chosen, his facility in elocution remarkable. And yet, to me, he
didn't have "the feel" of a fellow countryman.

He went on with the conversation as follows:

"No doubt, sir, you've felt that I waited rather too long before paying you this second visit.
After discovering your identities, I wanted to weigh carefully what policy to pursue toward
you. I had great difficulty deciding.  Some extremely inconvenient circumstances have brought
you into the presence of a man who has cut himself off from humanity.  Your coming has disrupted
my whole existence."

"Unintentionally," I said.

"Unintentionally?" the stranger replied, raising his voice a little. "Was it unintentionally
that the Abraham Lincoln hunted me on every sea? Was it unintentionally that you traveled aboard
that frigate? Was it unintentionally that your shells bounced off my ship's hull? Was it unintentionally
that Mr. Ned Land hit me with his harpoon?"

I detected a controlled irritation in these words.  But there was a perfectly natural reply
to these charges, and I made it.

"Sir," I said, "you're surely unaware of the discussions that have taken place in Europe and
America with yourself as the subject. You don't realize that various accidents, caused by collisions
with your underwater machine, have aroused public passions on those two continents. I'll spare
you the innumerable hypotheses with which we've tried to explain this inexplicable phenomenon,
whose secret is yours alone. But please understand that the Abraham Lincoln chased you over
the Pacific high seas in the belief it was hunting some powerful marine monster, which had
to be purged from the ocean at all cost."

A half smile curled the commander's lips; then, in a calmer tone:

"Professor Aronnax," he replied, "do you dare claim that your frigate wouldn't have chased
and cannonaded an underwater boat as readily as a monster?"

This question baffled me, since Commander Farragut would certainly have shown no such hesitation.
He would have seen it as his sworn duty to destroy a contrivance of this kind just as promptly
as a gigantic narwhale.

"So you understand, sir," the stranger went on, "that I have a right to treat you as my enemy."

I kept quiet, with good reason.  What was the use of debating such a proposition, when superior
force can wipe out the best arguments?

"It took me a good while to decide," the commander went on. "Nothing obliged me to grant you
hospitality.  If I were to part company with you, I'd have no personal interest in ever seeing
you again. I could put you back on the platform of this ship that has served as your refuge.
I could sink under the sea, and I could forget you ever existed.  Wouldn't that be my right?"

"Perhaps it would be the right of a savage," I replied. "But not that of a civilized man."

"Professor," the commander replied swiftly, "I'm not what you term a civilized man!  I've severed
all ties with society, for reasons that I alone have the right to appreciate. Therefore I obey
none of its regulations, and I insist that you never invoke them in front of me!"

This was plain speaking.  A flash of anger and scorn lit up the stranger's eyes, and I glimpsed
a fearsome past in this man's life. Not only had he placed himself beyond human laws, he had
rendered himself independent, out of all reach, free in the strictest sense of the word!  For
who would dare chase him to the depths of the sea when he thwarted all attacks on the surface?
What ship could withstand a collision with his underwater Monitor?  What armor plate, no matter
how heavy, could bear the thrusts of his spur? No man among men could call him to account for
his actions. God, if he believed in Him, his conscience if he had one-- these were the only
judges to whom he was answerable.

These thoughts swiftly crossed my mind while this strange individual fell silent, like someone
completely self-absorbed. I regarded him with a mixture of fear and fascination, in the same
way, no doubt, that Oedipus regarded the Sphinx.

After a fairly long silence, the commander went on with our conversation.

"So I had difficulty deciding," he said.  "But I concluded that my personal interests could
be reconciled with that natural compassion to which every human being has a right. Since fate
has brought you here, you'll stay aboard my vessel. You'll be free here, and in exchange for
that freedom, moreover totally related to it, I'll lay on you just one condition. Your word
that you'll submit to it will be sufficient."

"Go on, sir," I replied.  "I assume this condition is one an honest man can accept?"

"Yes, sir.  Just this.  It's possible that certain unforeseen events may force me to confine
you to your cabins for some hours, or even for some days as the case may be.  Since I prefer
never to use violence, I expect from you in such a case, even more than in any other, your
unquestioning obedience.  By acting in this way, I shield you from complicity, I absolve you
of all responsibility, since I myself make it impossible for you to see what you aren't meant
to see. Do you accept this condition?"

So things happened on board that were quite odd to say the least, things never to be seen by
people not placing themselves beyond society's laws!  Among all the surprises the future had
in store for me, this would not be the mildest.

"We accept," I replied.  "Only, I'll ask your permission, sir, to address a question to you,
just one."

"Go ahead, sir."

"You said we'd be free aboard your vessel?"

"Completely."

"Then I would ask what you mean by this freedom."

"Why, the freedom to come, go, see, and even closely observe everything happening here--except
under certain rare circumstances-- in short, the freedom we ourselves enjoy, my companions and I."

It was obvious that we did not understand each other.

"Pardon me, sir," I went on, "but that's merely the freedom that every prisoner has, the freedom
to pace his cell! That's not enough for us."

"Nevertheless, it will have to do!"

"What!  We must give up seeing our homeland, friends, and relatives ever again?"

"Yes, sir.  But giving up that intolerable earthly yoke that some men call freedom is perhaps
less painful than you think!"

"By thunder!"  Ned Land shouted.  "I'll never promise I won't try getting out of here!"

"I didn't ask for such a promise, Mr. Land," the commander replied coldly.

"Sir," I replied, flaring up in spite of myself, "you're taking unfair advantage of us!  This
is sheer cruelty!"

"No, sir, it's an act of mercy!  You're my prisoners of war! I've cared for you when, with
a single word, I could plunge you back into the ocean depths!  You attacked me!  You've just
stumbled on a secret no living man must probe, the secret of my entire existence! Do you think
I'll send you back to a world that must know nothing more of me?  Never!  By keeping you on
board, it isn't you whom I care for, it's me!"

These words indicated that the commander pursued a policy impervious to arguments.  But no
solemn promises bind us to the commander of this vessel."

"None, sir," the stranger replied.

Then, in a gentler voice, he went on:

"Now, allow me to finish what I have to tell you.  I've heard of you, Professor Aronnax.  You,
if not your companions, won't perhaps complain too much about the stroke of fate that has brought
us together. Among the books that make up my favorite reading, you'll find the work you've
published on the great ocean depths.  I've pored over it. You've taken your studies as far
as terrestrial science can go. But you don't know everything because you haven't seen everything.
Let me tell you, professor, you won't regret the time you spend aboard my vessel.  You're going
to voyage through a land of wonders. Stunned amazement will probably be your habitual state
of mind. It will be a long while before you tire of the sights constantly before your eyes.
I'm going to make another underwater tour of the world-- perhaps my last, who knows?--and I'll
review everything I've studied in the depths of these seas that I've crossed so often, and
you can be my fellow student.  Starting this very day, you'll enter a new element, you'll see
what no human being has ever seen before-- since my men and I no longer count--and thanks to
me, you're going to learn the ultimate secrets of our planet."

I can't deny it; the commander's words had a tremendous effect on me. He had caught me on my
weak side, and I momentarily forgot that not even this sublime experience was worth the loss
of my freedom. Besides, I counted on the future to resolve this important question. So I was
content to reply:

"Sir, even though you've cut yourself off from humanity, I can see that you haven't disowned
all human feeling.  We're castaways whom you've charitably taken aboard, we'll never forget
that. Speaking for myself, I don't rule out that the interests of science could override even
the need for freedom, which promises me that, in exchange, our encounter will provide great
rewards."

I thought the commander would offer me his hand, to seal our agreement. He did nothing of the
sort.  I regretted that.

"One last question," I said, just as this inexplicable being seemed ready to withdraw.

"Ask it, professor."

"By what name am I to call you?"

"Sir," the commander replied, "to you, I'm simply Captain Nemo;* to me, you and your companions
are simply passengers on the Nautilus."

*Latin: nemo means "no one."  Ed. Then, turning to the Canadian and Conseil:

"A meal is waiting for you in your cabin," he told them. "Kindly follow this man."

"That's an offer I can't refuse!" the harpooner replied.

After being confined for over thirty hours, he and Conseil were finally out of this cell.

"And now, Professor Aronnax, our own breakfast is ready. Allow me to lead the way."

"Yours to command, captain."

I followed Captain Nemo, and as soon as I passed through the doorway, I went down a kind of
electrically lit passageway that resembled a gangway on a ship.  After a stretch of some ten
meters, a second door opened before me.

I then entered a dining room, decorated and furnished in austere good taste.  Inlaid with ebony
trim, tall oaken sideboards stood at both ends of this room, and sparkling on their shelves
were staggered rows of earthenware, porcelain, and glass of incalculable value. There silver-plated
dinnerware gleamed under rays pouring from light fixtures in the ceiling, whose glare was softened
and tempered by delicately painted designs.

In the center of this room stood a table, richly spread. Captain Nemo indicated the place I
was to occupy.

"Be seated," he told me, "and eat like the famished man you must be."

Our breakfast consisted of several dishes whose contents were all supplied by the sea, and
some foods whose nature and derivation were unknown to me.  They were good, I admit, but with
a peculiar flavor to which I would soon grow accustomed. These various food items seemed to
be rich in phosphorous, and I thought that they, too, must have been of marine origin.

Captain Nemo stared at me.  I had asked him nothing, but he read my thoughts, and on his own
he answered the questions I was itching to address him.

"Most of these dishes are new to you," he told me.  "But you can consume them without fear.
They're healthy and nourishing. I renounced terrestrial foods long ago, and I'm none the worse
for it. My crew are strong and full of energy, and they eat what I eat."

"So," I said, "all these foods are products of the sea?"

"Yes, professor, the sea supplies all my needs.  Sometimes I cast my nets in our wake, and
I pull them up ready to burst.  Sometimes I go hunting right in the midst of this element that
has long seemed so far out of man's reach, and I corner the game that dwells in my underwater
forests. Like the flocks of old Proteus, King Neptune's shepherd, my herds graze without fear
on the ocean's immense prairies. There I own vast properties that I harvest myself, and which
are forever sown by the hand of the Creator of All Things."

I stared at Captain Nemo in definite astonishment, and I answered him:

"Sir, I understand perfectly how your nets can furnish excellent fish for your table; I understand
less how you can chase aquatic game in your underwater forests; but how a piece of red meat,
no matter how small, can figure in your menu, that I don't understand at all."

"Nor I, sir," Captain Nemo answered me.  "I never touch the flesh of land animals."

"Nevertheless, this . . . ," I went on, pointing to a dish where some slices of loin were still
left.

"What you believe to be red meat, professor, is nothing other than loin of sea turtle.  Similarly,
here are some dolphin livers you might mistake for stewed pork.  My chef is a skillful food
processor who excels at pickling and preserving these various exhibits from the ocean. Feel
free to sample all of these foods.  Here are some preserves of sea cucumber that a Malaysian
would declare to be unrivaled in the entire world, here's cream from milk furnished by the
udders of cetaceans, and sugar from the huge fucus plants in the North Sea; and finally, allow
me to offer you some marmalade of sea anemone, equal to that from the tastiest fruits."

So I sampled away, more as a curiosity seeker than an epicure, while Captain Nemo delighted
me with his incredible anecdotes.

"But this sea, Professor Aronnax," he told me, "this prodigious, inexhaustible wet nurse of
a sea not only feeds me, she dresses me as well.  That fabric covering you was woven from the
masses of filaments that anchor certain seashells; as the ancients were wont to do, it was
dyed with purple ink from the murex snail and shaded with violet tints that I extract from
a marine slug, the Mediterranean sea hare.  The perfumes you'll find on the washstand in your
cabin were produced from the oozings of marine plants. Your mattress was made from the ocean's
softest eelgrass. Your quill pen will be whalebone, your ink a juice secreted by cuttlefish
or squid.  Everything comes to me from the sea, just as someday everything will return to it!"

"You love the sea, captain."

"Yes, I love it!  The sea is the be all and end all!  It covers seven-tenths of the planet
earth.  Its breath is clean and healthy. It's an immense wilderness where a man is never lonely,
because he feels life astir on every side.  The sea is simply the vehicle for a prodigious,
unearthly mode of existence; it's simply movement and love; it's living infinity, as one of
your poets put it. And in essence, professor, nature is here made manifest by all three of
her kingdoms, mineral, vegetable, and animal. The last of these is amply represented by the
four zoophyte groups, three classes of articulates, five classes of mollusks, and three vertebrate
classes:  mammals, reptiles, and those countless legions of fish, an infinite order of animals
totaling more than 13,000 species, of which only one-tenth belong to fresh water. The sea is
a vast pool of nature.  Our globe began with the sea, so to speak, and who can say we won't
end with it! Here lies supreme tranquility.  The sea doesn't belong to tyrants. On its surface
they can still exercise their iniquitous claims, battle each other, devour each other, haul
every earthly horror. But thirty feet below sea level, their dominion ceases, their influence
fades, their power vanishes!  Ah, sir, live! Live in the heart of the seas!  Here alone lies
independence! Here I recognize no superiors!  Here I'm free!"

Captain Nemo suddenly fell silent in the midst of this enthusiastic outpouring.  Had he let
himself get carried away, past the bounds of his habitual reserve?  Had he said too much? For
a few moments he strolled up and down, all aquiver. Then his nerves grew calmer, his facial
features recovered their usual icy composure, and turning to me:

"Now, professor," he said, "if you'd like to inspect the Nautilus, I'm yours to command."

CHAPTER 11

The Nautilus

CAPTAIN NEMO stood up.  I followed him.  Contrived at the rear of the dining room, a double
door opened, and I entered a room whose dimensions equaled the one I had just left.

It was a library.  Tall, black-rosewood bookcases, inlaid with copperwork, held on their wide
shelves a large number of uniformly bound books. These furnishings followed the contours of
the room, their lower parts leading to huge couches upholstered in maroon leather and curved
for maximum comfort.  Light, movable reading stands, which could be pushed away or pulled near
as desired, allowed books to be positioned on them for easy study. In the center stood a huge
table covered with pamphlets, among which some newspapers, long out of date, were visible.
Electric light flooded this whole harmonious totality, falling from four frosted half globes
set in the scrollwork of the ceiling. I stared in genuine wonderment at this room so ingeniously
laid out, and I couldn't believe my eyes.

"Captain Nemo," I told my host, who had just stretched out on a couch, "this is a library that
would do credit to more than one continental palace, and I truly marvel to think it can go
with you into the deepest seas."

"Where could one find greater silence or solitude, professor?" Captain Nemo replied.  "Did
your study at the museum afford you such a perfect retreat?"

"No, sir, and I might add that it's quite a humble one next to yours. You own 6,000 or 7,000
volumes here . . ."

"12,000, Professor Aronnax.  They're my sole remaining ties with dry land.  But I was done
with the shore the day my Nautilus submerged for the first time under the waters.  That day
I purchased my last volumes, my last pamphlets, my last newspapers, and ever since I've chosen
to believe that humanity no longer thinks or writes. In any event, professor, these books are
at your disposal, and you may use them freely."

I thanked Captain Nemo and approached the shelves of this library. Written in every language,
books on science, ethics, and literature were there in abundance, but I didn't see a single
work on economics-- they seemed to be strictly banned on board.  One odd detail: all these
books were shelved indiscriminately without regard to the language in which they were written,
and this jumble proved that the Nautilus's captain could read fluently whatever volumes he
chanced to pick up.

Among these books I noted masterpieces by the greats of ancient and modern times, in other
words, all of humanity's finest achievements in history, poetry, fiction, and science, from
Homer to Victor Hugo, from Xenophon to Michelet, from Rabelais to Madame George Sand.  But
science, in particular, represented the major investment of this library:  books on mechanics,
ballistics, hydrography, meteorology, geography, geology, etc., held a place there no less
important than works on natural history, and I realized that they made up the captain's chief
reading. There I saw the complete works of Humboldt, the complete Arago, as well as works by
Foucault, Henri Sainte-Claire Deville, Chasles, Milne-Edwards, Quatrefages, John Tyndall, Faraday,
Berthelot, Father Secchi, Petermann, Commander Maury, Louis Agassiz, etc., plus the transactions
of France's Academy of Sciences, bulletins from the various geographical societies, etc., and
in a prime location, those two volumes on the great ocean depths that had perhaps earned me
this comparatively charitable welcome from Captain Nemo.  Among the works of Joseph Bertrand,
his book entitled The Founders of Astronomy even gave me a definite date; and since I knew
it had appeared in the course of 1865, I concluded that the fitting out of the Nautilus hadn't
taken place before then. Accordingly, three years ago at the most, Captain Nemo had begun his
underwater existence.  Moreover, I hoped some books even more recent would permit me to pinpoint
the date precisely; but I had plenty of time to look for them, and I didn't want to put off
any longer our stroll through the wonders of the Nautilus.

"Sir," I told the captain, "thank you for placing this library at my disposal.  There are scientific
treasures here, and I'll take advantage of them."

"This room isn't only a library," Captain Nemo said, "it's also a smoking room."

"A smoking room?"  I exclaimed.  "Then one may smoke on board?"

"Surely."

"In that case, sir, I'm forced to believe that you've kept up relations with Havana."

"None whatever," the captain replied.  "Try this cigar, Professor Aronnax, and even though
it doesn't come from Havana, it will satisfy you if you're a connoisseur."

I took the cigar offered me, whose shape recalled those from Cuba; but it seemed to be made
of gold leaf.  I lit it at a small brazier supported by an elegant bronze stand, and I inhaled
my first whiffs with the relish of a smoker who hasn't had a puff in days.

"It's excellent," I said, "but it's not from the tobacco plant."

"Right," the captain replied, "this tobacco comes from neither Havana nor the Orient.  It's
a kind of nicotine-rich seaweed that the ocean supplies me, albeit sparingly.  Do you still
miss your Cubans, sir?"

"Captain, I scorn them from this day forward."

"Then smoke these cigars whenever you like, without debating their origin.  They bear no government
seal of approval, but I imagine they're none the worse for it."

"On the contrary."

Just then Captain Nemo opened a door facing the one by which I had entered the library, and
I passed into an immense, splendidly lit lounge.

It was a huge quadrilateral with canted corners, ten meters long, six wide, five high.  A luminous
ceiling, decorated with delicate arabesques, distributed a soft, clear daylight over all the
wonders gathered in this museum.  For a museum it truly was, in which clever hands had spared
no expense to amass every natural and artistic treasure, displaying them with the helter-skelter
picturesqueness that distinguishes a painter's studio.

Some thirty pictures by the masters, uniformly framed and separated by gleaming panoplies of
arms, adorned walls on which were stretched tapestries of austere design.  There I saw canvases
of the highest value, the likes of which I had marveled at in private European collections
and art exhibitions.  The various schools of the old masters were represented by a Raphael
Madonna, a Virgin by Leonardo da Vinci, a nymph by Correggio, a woman by Titian, an adoration
of the Magi by Veronese, an assumption of the Virgin by Murillo, a Holbein portrait, a monk
by Velazquez, a martyr by Ribera, a village fair by Rubens, two Flemish landscapes by Teniers,
three little genre paintings by Gerard Dow, Metsu, and Paul Potter, two canvases by Gericault
and Prud'hon, plus seascapes by Backhuysen and Vernet.  Among the works of modern art were
pictures signed by Delacroix, Ingres, Decamps, Troyon, Meissonier, Daubigny, etc., and some
wonderful miniature statues in marble or bronze, modeled after antiquity's finest originals,
stood on their pedestals in the corners of this magnificent museum.  As the Nautilus's commander
had predicted, my mind was already starting to fall into that promised state of stunned amazement.

"Professor," this strange man then said, "you must excuse the informality with which I receive
you, and the disorder reigning in this lounge."

"Sir," I replied, "without prying into who you are, might I venture to identify you as an artist?"

"A collector, sir, nothing more. They're my last mementos of those shores that are now dead
for me. In my eyes, your modern artists are already as old as the ancients. They've existed
for 2,000 or 3,000 years, and I mix them up in my mind. The masters are ageless."

"What about these composers?"  I said, pointing to sheet music by Weber, Rossini, Mozart, Beethoven,
Haydn, Meyerbeer, Hérold, Wagner, Auber, Gounod, Victor Massé, and a number of others scattered
over a full size piano-organ, which occupied one of the wall panels in this lounge.

"These composers," Captain Nemo answered me, "are the contemporaries of Orpheus, because in
the annals of the dead, all chronological differences fade; and I'm dead, professor, quite
as dead as those friends of yours sleeping six feet under!"

Captain Nemo fell silent and seemed lost in reverie.  I regarded him with intense excitement,
silently analyzing his strange facial expression. Leaning his elbow on the corner of a valuable
mosaic table, he no longer saw me, he had forgotten my very presence.

I didn't disturb his meditations but continued to pass in review the curiosities that enriched
this lounge.

After the works of art, natural rarities predominated. They consisted chiefly of plants, shells,
and other exhibits from the ocean that must have been Captain Nemo's own personal finds. In
the middle of the lounge, a jet of water, electrically lit, fell back into a basin made from
a single giant clam.  The delicately festooned rim of this shell, supplied by the biggest mollusk
in the class Acephala, measured about six meters in circumference; so it was even bigger than
those fine giant clams given to King François I by the Republic of Venice, and which the Church
of Saint-Sulpice in Paris has made into two gigantic holy-water fonts.

Around this basin, inside elegant glass cases fastened with copper bands, there were classified
and labeled the most valuable marine exhibits ever put before the eyes of a naturalist. My
professorial glee may easily be imagined.

The zoophyte branch offered some very unusual specimens from its two groups, the polyps and
the echinoderms.  In the first group: organ-pipe coral, gorgonian coral arranged into fan shapes,
soft sponges from Syria, isis coral from the Molucca Islands, sea-pen coral, wonderful coral
of the genus Virgularia from the waters of Norway, various coral of the genus Umbellularia,
alcyonarian coral, then a whole series of those madrepores that my mentor Professor Milne-Edwards
has so shrewdly classified into divisions and among which I noted the wonderful genus Flabellina
as well as the genus Oculina from Réunion Island, plus a "Neptune's chariot" from the Caribbean
Sea--every superb variety of coral, and in short, every species of these unusual polyparies
that congregate to form entire islands that will one day turn into continents. Among the echinoderms,
notable for being covered with spines: starfish, feather stars, sea lilies, free-swimming crinoids,
brittle stars, sea urchins, sea cucumbers, etc., represented a complete collection of the individuals
in this group.

An excitable conchologist would surely have fainted dead away before other, more numerous glass
cases in which were classified specimens from the mollusk branch.  There I saw a collection
of incalculable value that I haven't time to describe completely. Among these exhibits I'll
mention, just for the record: an elegant royal hammer shell from the Indian Ocean, whose evenly
spaced white spots stood out sharply against a base of red and brown; an imperial spiny oyster,
brightly colored, bristling with thorns, a specimen rare to European museums, whose value I
estimated at 20,000 francs; a common hammer shell from the seas near Queensland, very hard
to come by; exotic cockles from Senegal, fragile white bivalve shells that a single breath
could pop like a soap bubble; several varieties of watering-pot shell from Java, a sort of
limestone tube fringed with leafy folds and much fought over by collectors; a whole series
of top-shell snails--greenish yellow ones fished up from American seas, others colored reddish
brown that patronize the waters off Queensland, the former coming from the Gulf of Mexico and
notable for their overlapping shells, the latter some sun-carrier shells found in the southernmost
seas, finally and rarest of all, the magnificent spurred-star shell from New Zealand; then
some wonderful peppery-furrow shells; several valuable species of cythera clams and venus clams;
the trellis wentletrap snail from Tranquebar on India's eastern shore; a marbled turban snail
gleaming with mother-of-pearl; green parrot shells from the seas of China; the virtually unknown
cone snail from the genus Coenodullus; every variety of cowry used as money in India and Africa;
a "glory-of-the-seas," the most valuable shell in the East Indies; finally, common periwinkles,
delphinula snails, turret snails, violet snails, European cowries, volute snails, olive shells,
miter shells, helmet shells, murex snails, whelks, harp shells, spiky periwinkles, triton snails,
horn shells, spindle shells, conch shells, spider conchs, limpets, glass snails, sea butterflies--
every kind of delicate, fragile seashell that science has baptized with its most delightful names.

Aside and in special compartments, strings of supremely beautiful pearls were spread out, the
electric light flecking them with little fiery sparks:  pink pearls pulled from saltwater fan
shells in the Red Sea; green pearls from the rainbow abalone; yellow, blue, and black pearls,
the unusual handiwork of various mollusks from every ocean and of certain mussels from rivers
up north; in short, several specimens of incalculable worth that had been oozed by the rarest
of shellfish.  Some of these pearls were bigger than a pigeon egg; they more than equaled the
one that the explorer Tavernier sold the Shah of Persia for 3,000,000 francs, and they surpassed
that other pearl owned by the Imam of Muscat, which I had believed to be unrivaled in the entire
world.

Consequently, to calculate the value of this collection was, I should say, impossible.  Captain
Nemo must have spent millions in acquiring these different specimens, and I was wondering what
financial resources he tapped to satisfy his collector's fancies, when these words interrupted me:

"You're examining my shells, professor?  They're indeed able to fascinate a naturalist; but
for me they have an added charm, since I've collected every one of them with my own two hands,
and not a sea on the globe has escaped my investigations."

"I understand, captain, I understand your delight at strolling in the midst of this wealth.
You're a man who gathers his treasure in person.  No museum in Europe owns such a collection
of exhibits from the ocean.  But if I exhaust all my wonderment on them, I'll have nothing
left for the ship that carries them! I have absolutely no wish to probe those secrets of yours!
But I confess that my curiosity is aroused to the limit by this Nautilus, the motor power it
contains, the equipment enabling it to operate, the ultra powerful force that brings it to
life.  I see some instruments hanging on the walls of this lounge whose purposes are unknown
to me. May I learn--"

"Professor Aronnax," Captain Nemo answered me, "I've said you'd be free aboard my vessel, so
no part of the Nautilus is off-limits to you. You may inspect it in detail, and I'll be delighted
to act as your guide."

"I don't know how to thank you, sir, but I won't abuse your good nature. I would only ask you
about the uses intended for these instruments of physical measure--"

"Professor, these same instruments are found in my stateroom, where I'll have the pleasure
of explaining their functions to you. But beforehand, come inspect the cabin set aside for
you. You need to learn how you'll be lodged aboard the Nautilus."

I followed Captain Nemo, who, via one of the doors cut into the lounge's canted corners, led
me back down the ship's gangways. He took me to the bow, and there I found not just a cabin
but an elegant stateroom with a bed, a washstand, and various other furnishings.

I could only thank my host.

"Your stateroom adjoins mine," he told me, opening a door, "and mine leads into that lounge
we've just left."

I entered the captain's stateroom.  It had an austere, almost monastic appearance.  An iron
bedstead, a worktable, some washstand fixtures.  Subdued lighting.  No luxuries. Just the bare
necessities.

Captain Nemo showed me to a bench.

"Kindly be seated," he told me.  Here, as in the lounge, I always have them before my eyes,
and they indicate my position and exact heading in the midst of the ocean. You're familiar
with some of them, such as the thermometer, which gives the temperature inside the Nautilus;
the barometer, which measures the heaviness of the outside air and forecasts changes in the
weather; the humidistat, which indicates the degree of dryness in the atmosphere; the storm
glass, whose mixture decomposes to foretell the arrival of tempests; the compass, which steers
my course; the sextant, which takes the sun's altitude and tells me my latitude; chronometers,
which allow me to calculate my longitude; and finally, spyglasses for both day and night, enabling
me to scrutinize every point of the horizon once the Nautilus has risen to the surface of the
waves."

"These are the normal navigational instruments," I replied, "and I'm familiar with their uses.
But no doubt these others answer pressing needs unique to the Nautilus.  That dial I see there,
with the needle moving across it--isn't it a pressure gauge?"

"It is indeed a pressure gauge.  It's placed in contact with the water, and it indicates the
outside pressure on our hull, which in turn gives me the depth at which my submersible is sitting."

"And these are some new breed of sounding line?"

"They're thermometric sounding lines that report water temperatures in the different strata."

"And these other instruments, whose functions I can't even guess?"

"Here, professor, I need to give you some background information," Captain Nemo said.  "So
kindly hear me out."

He fell silent for some moments, then he said:

"There's a powerful, obedient, swift, and effortless force that can be bent to any use and
which reigns supreme aboard my vessel. It does everything.  It lights me, it warms me, it's
the soul of my mechanical equipment.  This force is electricity."

"Electricity!"  I exclaimed in some surprise.

"Yes, sir."

"But, captain, you have a tremendous speed of movement that doesn't square with the strength
of electricity.  Until now, its dynamic potential has remained quite limited, capable of producing
only small amounts of power!"

"Professor," Captain Nemo replied, "my electricity isn't the run-of-the-mill variety, and with
your permission, I'll leave it at that."

"I won't insist, sir, and I'll rest content with simply being flabbergasted at your results.
I would ask one question, however, which you needn't answer if it's indiscreet.  The electric
cells you use to generate this marvelous force must be depleted very quickly. Their zinc component,
for example:  how do you replace it, since you no longer stay in contact with the shore?"

"That question deserves an answer," Captain Nemo replied. "First off, I'll mention that at
the bottom of the sea there exist veins of zinc, iron, silver, and gold whose mining would
quite certainly be feasible.  But I've tapped none of these land-based metals, and I wanted
to make demands only on the sea itself for the sources of my electricity."

"The sea itself?"

"Yes, professor, and there was no shortage of such sources. In fact, by establishing a circuit
between two wires immersed to different depths, I'd be able to obtain electricity through the
diverging temperatures they experience; but I preferred to use a more practical procedure."

"And that is?"

"You're familiar with the composition of salt water.  In 1,000 grams one finds 96.5% water
and about 2.66% sodium chloride; then small quantities of magnesium chloride, potassium chloride,
magnesium bromide, sulfate of magnesia, calcium sulfate, and calcium carbonate. Hence you observe
that sodium chloride is encountered there in significant proportions.  Now then, it's this
sodium that I extract from salt water and with which I compose my electric cells."

"Sodium?"

"Yes, sir.  Mixed with mercury, it forms an amalgam that takes the place of zinc in Bunsen
cells.  The mercury is never depleted. Only the sodium is consumed, and the sea itself gives
me that. Beyond this, I'll mention that sodium batteries have been found to generate the greater
energy, and their electro-motor strength is twice that of zinc batteries."

"Captain, I fully understand the excellence of sodium under the conditions in which you're
placed.  The sea contains it.  Fine.  But it still has to be produced, in short, extracted.
And how do you accomplish this? Obviously your batteries could do the extracting; but if I'm
not mistaken, the consumption of sodium needed by your electric equipment would be greater
than the quantity you'd extract. It would come about, then, that in the process of producing
your sodium, you'd use up more than you'd make!"

"Accordingly, professor, I don't extract it with batteries; quite simply, I utilize the heat
of coal from the earth."

"From the earth?"  I said, my voice going up on the word.

"We'll say coal from the seafloor, if you prefer," Captain Nemo replied.

"And you can mine these veins of underwater coal?"

"You'll watch me work them, Professor Aronnax.  I ask only a little patience of you, since
you'll have ample time to be patient. Just remember one thing:  I owe everything to the ocean;
it generates electricity, and electricity gives the Nautilus heat, light, motion, and, in a
word, life itself."

"But not the air you breathe?"

"Oh, I could produce the air needed on board, but it would be pointless, since I can rise to
the surface of the sea whenever I like. However, even though electricity doesn't supply me
with breathable air, it at least operates the powerful pumps that store it under pressure in
special tanks; which, if need be, allows me to extend my stay in the lower strata for as long
as I want."

"Captain," I replied, "I'll rest content with marveling. You've obviously found what all mankind
will surely find one day, the true dynamic power of electricity."

"I'm not so certain they'll find it," Captain Nemo replied icily. "But be that as it may, you're
already familiar with the first use I've found for this valuable force.  It lights us, and
with a uniformity and continuity not even possessed by sunlight.  Now, look at that clock:
it's electric, it runs with an accuracy rivaling the finest chronometers. I've had it divided
into twenty-four hours like Italian clocks, since neither day nor night, sun nor moon, exist
for me, but only this artificial light that I import into the depths of the seas! See, right
now it's ten o'clock in the morning."

"That's perfect."

"Another use for electricity:  that dial hanging before our eyes indicates how fast the Nautilus
is going.  An electric wire puts it in contact with the patent log; this needle shows me the
actual speed of my submersible.  And . . . hold on . . . just now we're proceeding at the moderate
pace of fifteen miles per hour."

"It's marvelous," I replied, "and I truly see, captain, how right you are to use this force;
it's sure to take the place of wind, water, and steam."

"But that's not all, Professor Aronnax," Captain Nemo said, standing up. "And if you'd care
to follow me, we'll inspect the Nautilus's stern."

In essence, I was already familiar with the whole forward part of this underwater boat, and
here are its exact subdivisions going from amidships to its spur:  the dining room, 5 meters
long and separated from the library by a watertight bulkhead, in other words, it couldn't be
penetrated by the sea; the library, 5 meters long; the main lounge, 10 meters long, separated
from the captain's stateroom by a second watertight bulkhead; the aforesaid stateroom, 5 meters
long; mine, 2.5 meters long; and finally, air tanks 7.5 meters long and extending to the stempost.
Total:  a length of 35 meters. Doors were cut into the watertight bulkheads and were shut hermetically
by means of india-rubber seals, which insured complete safety aboard the Nautilus in the event
of a leak in any one section.

I followed Captain Nemo down gangways located for easy transit, and I arrived amidships.  There
I found a sort of shaft heading upward between two watertight bulkheads.  An iron ladder, clamped
to the wall, led to the shaft's upper end.  I asked the captain what this ladder was for.

"It goes to the skiff," he replied.

"What!  You have a skiff?"  I replied in some astonishment.

"Surely.  An excellent longboat, light and unsinkable, which is used for excursions and fishing
trips."

"But when you want to set out, don't you have to return to the surface of the sea?"

"By no means.  The skiff is attached to the topside of the Nautilus's hull and is set in a
cavity expressly designed to receive it.  It's completely decked over, absolutely watertight,
and held solidly in place by bolts. This ladder leads to a manhole cut into the Nautilus's
hull and corresponding to a comparable hole cut into the side of the skiff. I insert myself
through this double opening into the longboat. My crew close up the hole belonging to the Nautilus;
I close up the one belonging to the skiff, simply by screwing it into place. I undo the bolts
holding the skiff to the submersible, and the longboat rises with prodigious speed to the surface
of the sea. I then open the deck paneling, carefully closed until that point; I up mast and
hoist sail--or I take out my oars--and I go for a spin."

"But how do you return to the ship?"

"I don't, Professor Aronnax; the Nautilus returns to me."

"At your command?"

"At my command.  An electric wire connects me to the ship. I fire off a telegram, and that's that."

"Right," I said, tipsy from all these wonders, "nothing to it!"

After passing the well of the companionway that led to the platform, I saw a cabin 2 meters
long in which Conseil and Ned Land, enraptured with their meal, were busy devouring it to the
last crumb. Then a door opened into the galley, 3 meters long and located between the vessel's
huge storage lockers.

There, even more powerful and obedient than gas, electricity did most of the cooking.  Arriving
under the stoves, wires transmitted to platinum griddles a heat that was distributed and sustained
with perfect consistency.  It also heated a distilling mechanism that, via evaporation, supplied
excellent drinking water. Next to this galley was a bathroom, conveniently laid out, with faucets
supplying hot or cold water at will.

After the galley came the crew's quarters, 5 meters long. But the door was closed and I couldn't
see its accommodations, which might have told me the number of men it took to operate the Nautilus.

At the far end stood a fourth watertight bulkhead, separating the crew's quarters from the
engine room.  A door opened, and I stood in the compartment where Captain Nemo, indisputably
a world-class engineer, had set up his locomotive equipment.

Brightly lit, the engine room measured at least 20 meters in length. It was divided, by function,
into two parts:  the first contained the cells for generating electricity, the second that
mechanism transmitting movement to the propeller.

Right off, I detected an odor permeating the compartment that was sui generis.* Captain Nemo
noticed the negative impression it made on me.

*Latin: "in a class by itself."  Ed.

"That," he told me, "is a gaseous discharge caused by our use of sodium, but it's only a mild
inconvenience.  In any event, every morning we sanitize the ship by ventilating it in the open
air."

Meanwhile I examined the Nautilus's engine with a fascination easy to imagine.

"You observe," Captain Nemo told me, "that I use Bunsen cells, not Ruhmkorff cells.  The latter
would be ineffectual.  One uses fewer Bunsen cells, but they're big and strong, and experience
has proven their superiority.  The electricity generated here makes its way to the stern, where
electromagnets of huge size activate a special system of levers and gears that transmit movement
to the propeller's shaft. The latter has a diameter of 6 meters, a pitch of 7.5 meters, and
can do up to 120 revolutions per minute."

"And that gives you?"

"A speed of fifty miles per hour."

There lay a mystery, but I didn't insist on exploring it. How could electricity work with such
power?  Where did this nearly unlimited energy originate?  Was it in the extraordinary voltage
obtained from some new kind of induction coil? Could its transmission have been immeasurably
increased by some unknown system of levers?** This was the point I couldn't grasp.

**Author's Note:  And sure enough, there's now talk of such a discovery, in which a new set
of levers generates considerable power. Did its inventor meet up with Captain Nemo?

"Captain Nemo," I said, "I'll vouch for the results and not try to explain them.  I've seen
the Nautilus at work out in front of the Abraham Lincoln, and I know where I stand on its speed.
But it isn't enough just to move, we have to see where we're going! We must be able to steer
right or left, up or down! How do you reach the lower depths, where you meet an increasing
resistance that's assessed in hundreds of atmospheres? How do you rise back to the surface
of the ocean? Finally, how do you keep your ship at whatever level suits you? Am I indiscreet
in asking you all these things?"

"Not at all, professor," the captain answered me after a slight hesitation, "since you'll never
leave this underwater boat. Come into the lounge.  It's actually our work room, and there you'll
learn the full story about the Nautilus!"

CHAPTER 13

Some Figures

A MOMENT LATER we were seated on a couch in the lounge, cigars between our lips.  The

captain placed before my eyes a working drawing that gave the ground plan, cross section, and
side view of the Nautilus.  Then he began his description as follows:

"Here, Professor Aronnax, are the different dimensions of this boat now transporting you. 
It's a very long cylinder with conical ends. It noticeably takes the shape of a cigar, a shape
already adopted in London for several projects of the same kind. The length of this cylinder
from end to end is exactly seventy meters, and its maximum breadth of beam is eight meters.
So it isn't quite built on the ten-to-one ratio of your high-speed steamers; but its lines
are sufficiently long, and their tapering gradual enough, so that the displaced water easily
slips past and poses no obstacle to the ship's movements.

"These two dimensions allow you to obtain, via a simple calculation, the surface area and volume
of the Nautilus.  Its surface area totals 1,011.45 square meters, its volume 1,507.2 cubic
meters-- which is tantamount to saying that when it's completely submerged, it displaces 1,500
cubic meters of water, or weighs 1,500 metric tons.

"In drawing up plans for a ship meant to navigate underwater, I wanted it, when floating on
the waves, to lie nine-tenths below the surface and to emerge only one-tenth. Consequently,
under these conditions it needed to displace only nine-tenths of its volume, hence 1,356.48
cubic meters; in other words, it was to weigh only that same number of metric tons.  So I was
obliged not to exceed this weight while building it to the aforesaid dimensions.

"The Nautilus is made up of two hulls, one inside the other; between them, joining them together,
are iron T-bars that give this ship the utmost rigidity.  In fact, thanks to this cellular
arrangement, it has the resistance of a stone block, as if it were completely solid. Its plating
can't give way; it's self-adhering and not dependent on the tightness of its rivets; and due
to the perfect union of its materials, the solidarity of its construction allows it to defy
the most violent seas.

"The two hulls are manufactured from boilerplate steel, whose relative density is 7.8 times
that of water.  The first hull has a thickness of no less than five centimeters and weighs
394.96 metric tons. My second hull, the outer cover, includes a keel fifty centimeters high
by twenty-five wide, which by itself weighs 62 metric tons; this hull, the engine, the ballast,
the various accessories and accommodations, plus the bulkheads and interior braces, have a
combined weight of 961.52 metric tons, which when added to 394.96 metric tons, gives us the
desired total of 1,356.48 metric tons.  Clear?"

"Clear," I replied.

"So," the captain went on, "when the Nautilus lies on the waves under these conditions, one-tenth
of it does emerge above water. Now then, if I provide some ballast tanks equal in capacity
to that one-tenth, hence able to hold 150.72 metric tons, and if I fill them with water, the
boat then displaces 1,507.2 metric tons-- or it weighs that much--and it would be completely
submerged. That's what comes about, professor.  These ballast tanks exist within easy access
in the lower reaches of the Nautilus.  I open some stopcocks, the tanks fill, the boat sinks,
and it's exactly flush with the surface of the water."

"Fine, captain, but now we come to a genuine difficulty.  You're able to lie flush with the
surface of the ocean, that I understand. But lower down, while diving beneath that surface,
isn't your submersible going to encounter a pressure, and consequently undergo an upward thrust,
that must be assessed at one atmosphere per every thirty feet of water, hence at about one
kilogram per each square centimeter?"

"Precisely, sir."

"Then unless you fill up the whole Nautilus, I don't see how you can force it down into the
heart of these liquid masses."

"Professor," Captain Nemo replied, "static objects mustn't be confused with dynamic ones, or
we'll be open to serious error. Comparatively little effort is spent in reaching the ocean's
lower regions, because all objects have a tendency to become 'sinkers.' Follow my logic here."

"I'm all ears, captain."

"When I wanted to determine what increase in weight the Nautilus needed to be given in order
to submerge, I had only to take note of the proportionate reduction in volume that salt water
experiences in deeper and deeper strata."

"That's obvious," I replied.

"Now then, if water isn't absolutely incompressible, at least it compresses very little.  In
fact, according to the most recent calculations, this reduction is only .0000436 per atmosphere,
or per every thirty feet of depth.  For instance, to go 1,000 meters down, I must take into
account the reduction in volume that occurs under a pressure equivalent to that from a 1,000-meter
column of water, in other words, under a pressure of 100 atmospheres. In this instance the
reduction would be .00436. Consequently, I'd have to increase my weight from 1,507.2 metric
tons to 1,513.77. So the added weight would only be 6.57 metric tons."

"That's all?"

"That's all, Professor Aronnax, and the calculation is easy to check. Now then, I have supplementary
ballast tanks capable of shipping 100 metric tons of water.  So I can descend to considerable
depths. When I want to rise again and lie flush with the surface, all I have to do is expel
that water; and if I desire that the Nautilus emerge above the waves to one-tenth of its total
capacity, I empty all the ballast tanks completely."

This logic, backed up by figures, left me without a single objection.

"I accept your calculations, captain," I replied, "and I'd be ill-mannered to dispute them,
since your daily experience bears them out. But at this juncture, I have a hunch that we're
still left with one real difficulty."

"What's that, sir?"

"When you're at a depth of 1,000 meters, the Nautilus's plating bears a pressure of 100 atmospheres.
If at this point you want to empty the supplementary ballast tanks in order to lighten your
boat and rise to the surface, your pumps must overcome that pressure of 100 atmospheres, which
is 100 kilograms per each square centimeter. This demands a strength--"

"That electricity alone can give me," Captain Nemo said swiftly. "Sir, I repeat:  the dynamic
power of my engines is nearly infinite. The Nautilus's pumps have prodigious strength, as you
must have noticed when their waterspouts swept like a torrent over the Abraham Lincoln.  Besides,
I use my supplementary ballast tanks only to reach an average depth of 1,500 to 2,000 meters,
and that with a view to conserving my machinery.  Accordingly, when I have a mind to visit
the ocean depths two or three vertical leagues beneath the surface, I use maneuvers that are
more time-consuming but no less infallible."

"What are they, captain?"  I asked.

"Here I'm naturally led into telling you how the Nautilus is maneuvered."

"I can't wait to find out."

"In order to steer this boat to port or starboard, in short, to make turns on a horizontal
plane, I use an ordinary, wide-bladed rudder that's fastened to the rear of the sternpost and
worked by a wheel and tackle.  But I can also move the Nautilus upward and downward on a vertical
plane by the simple method of slanting its two fins, which are attached to its sides at its
center of flotation; these fins are flexible, able to assume any position, and can be operated
from inside by means of powerful levers.  If these fins stay parallel with the boat, the latter
moves horizontally. If they slant, the Nautilus follows the angle of that slant and, under
its propeller's thrust, either sinks on a diagonal as steep as it suits me, or rises on that
diagonal.  And similarly, if I want to return more swiftly to the surface, I throw the propeller
in gear, and the water's pressure makes the Nautilus rise vertically, as an air balloon inflated
with hydrogen lifts swiftly into the skies."

"Bravo, captain!"  I exclaimed.  "But in the midst of the waters, how can your helmsman follow
the course you've given him?"

"My helmsman is stationed behind the windows of a pilothouse, which protrudes from the topside
of the Nautilus's hull and is fitted with biconvex glass."

"Is glass capable of resisting such pressures?"

"Perfectly capable.  Though fragile on impact, crystal can still offer considerable resistance.
In 1864, during experiments on fishing by electric light in the middle of the North Sea, glass
panes less than seven millimeters thick were seen to resist a pressure of sixteen atmospheres,
all the while letting through strong, heat-generating rays whose warmth was unevenly distributed.
Now then, I use glass windows measuring no less than twenty-one centimeters at their centers;
in other words, they've thirty times the thickness."

"Fair enough, captain, but if we're going to see, we need light to drive away the dark, and
in the midst of the murky waters, I wonder how your helmsman can--"

"Set astern of the pilothouse is a powerful electric reflector whose rays light up the sea
for a distance of half a mile."

"Oh, bravo!  Bravo three times over, captain!  That explains the phosphorescent glow from this
so-called narwhale that so puzzled us scientists!  Pertinent to this, I'll ask you if the Nautilus's
running afoul of the Scotia, which caused such a great uproar, was the result of an accidental
encounter?"

"Entirely accidental, sir.  I was navigating two meters beneath the surface of the water when
the collision occurred.  However, I could see that it had no dire consequences."

"None, sir.  But as for your encounter with the Abraham Lincoln . . . ?"

"Professor, that troubled me, because it's one of the best ships in the gallant American navy,
but they attacked me and I had to defend myself! All the same, I was content simply to put
the frigate in a condition where it could do me no harm; it won't have any difficulty getting
repairs at the nearest port."

"Ah, commander," I exclaimed with conviction, "your Nautilus is truly a marvelous boat!"

"Yes, professor," Captain Nemo replied with genuine excitement, "and I love it as if it were
my own flesh and blood!  Aboard a conventional ship, facing the ocean's perils, danger lurks
everywhere; on the surface of the sea, your chief sensation is the constant feeling of an underlying
chasm, as the Dutchman Jansen so aptly put it; but below the waves aboard the Nautilus, your
heart never fails you! There are no structural deformities to worry about, because the double
hull of this boat has the rigidity of iron; no rigging to be worn out by rolling and pitching
on the waves; no sails for the wind to carry off; no boilers for steam to burst open; no fires
to fear, because this submersible is made of sheet iron not wood; no coal to run out of, since
electricity is its mechanical force; no collisions to fear, because it navigates the watery
deep all by itself; no storms to brave, because just a few meters beneath the waves, it finds
absolute tranquility!  There, sir.  There's the ideal ship! And if it's true that the engineer
has more confidence in a craft than the builder, and the builder more than the captain himself,
you can understand the utter abandon with which I place my trust in this Nautilus, since I'm
its captain, builder, and engineer all in one!"

Captain Nemo spoke with winning eloquence.  The fire in his eyes and the passion in his gestures
transfigured him.  Yes, he loved his ship the same way a father loves his child!

But one question, perhaps indiscreet, naturally popped up, and I couldn't resist asking it.

"You're an engineer, then, Captain Nemo?"

"Yes, professor," he answered me.  "I studied in London, Paris, and New York back in the days
when I was a resident of the earth's continents."

"But how were you able to build this wonderful Nautilus in secret?"

"Each part of it, Professor Aronnax, came from a different spot on the globe and reached me
at a cover address.  Its keel was forged by Creusot in France, its propeller shaft by Pen &
Co.  in London, the sheet-iron plates for its hull by Laird's in Liverpool, its propeller by
Scott's in Glasgow.  Its tanks were manufactured by Cail & Co. in Paris, its engine by Krupp
in Prussia, its spur by the Motala workshops in Sweden, its precision instruments by Hart Bros.
in New York, etc.; and each of these suppliers received my specifications under a different name."

"But," I went on, "once these parts were manufactured, didn't they have to be mounted and adjusted?"

"Professor, I set up my workshops on a deserted islet in midocean. There our Nautilus was completed
by me and my workmen, in other words, by my gallant companions whom I've molded and educated.
Then, when the operation was over, we burned every trace of our stay on that islet, which if
I could have, I'd have blown up."

"From all this, may I assume that such a boat costs a fortune?"

"An iron ship, Professor Aronnax, runs 1,125 francs per metric ton. Now then, the Nautilus
has a burden of 1,500 metric tons. Consequently, it cost 1,687,000 francs, hence 2,000,000
francs including its accommodations, and 4,000,000 or 5,000,000 with all the collections and
works of art it contains."

"One last question, Captain Nemo."

"Ask, professor."

"You're rich, then?"

"Infinitely rich, sir, and without any trouble, I could pay off the ten-billion-franc French
national debt!"

I gaped at the bizarre individual who had just spoken these words. Was he playing on my credulity?
Time would tell.

CHAPTER 14

The Black Current

THE PART OF THE planet earth that the seas occupy has been assessed at 3,832,558 square myriameters,
hence more than 38,000,000,000 hectares. This liquid mass totals 2,250,000,000 cubic miles
and could form a sphere with a diameter of sixty leagues, whose weight would be three quintillion
metric tons.  To appreciate such a number, we should remember that a quintillion is to a billion
what a billion is to one, in other words, there are as many billions in a quintillion as ones
in a billion!  Now then, this liquid mass nearly equals the total amount of water that has
poured through all the earth's rivers for the past 40,000 years!

During prehistoric times, an era of fire was followed by an era of water. At first there was
ocean everywhere.  Then, during the Silurian period, the tops of mountains gradually appeared
above the waves, islands emerged, disappeared beneath temporary floods, rose again, were fused
to form continents, and finally the earth's geography settled into what we have today.  Solid
matter had wrested from liquid matter some 37,657,000 square miles, hence 12,916,000,000 hectares.

The outlines of the continents allow the seas to be divided into five major parts:  the frozen
Arctic and Antarctic oceans, the Indian Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Pacific Ocean. 
It's the most tranquil of the seas; its currents are wide and slow-moving, its tides moderate,
its rainfall abundant. And this was the ocean that I was first destined to cross under these
strangest of auspices.

"If you don't mind, professor," Captain Nemo told me, "we'll determine our exact position and
fix the starting point of our voyage. It's fifteen minutes before noon.  I'm going to rise
to the surface of the water."

The captain pressed an electric bell three times.  The pumps began to expel water from the
ballast tanks; on the pressure gauge, a needle marked the decreasing pressures that indicated
the Nautilus's upward progress; then the needle stopped.

"Here we are," the captain said.

I made my way to the central companionway, which led to the platform. I climbed its metal steps,
passed through the open hatches, and arrived topside on the Nautilus.

The platform emerged only eighty centimeters above the waves. The Nautilus's bow and stern
boasted that spindle-shaped outline that had caused the ship to be compared appropriately to
a long cigar. I noted the slight overlap of its sheet-iron plates, which resembled the scales
covering the bodies of our big land reptiles.  So I had a perfectly natural explanation for
why, despite the best spyglasses, this boat had always been mistaken for a marine animal.

Near the middle of the platform, the skiff was half set in the ship's hull, making a slight
bulge.  Fore and aft stood two cupolas of moderate height, their sides slanting and partly
inset with heavy biconvex glass, one reserved for the helmsman steering the Nautilus, the other
for the brilliance of the powerful electric beacon lighting his way.

The sea was magnificent, the skies clear.  This long aquatic vehicle could barely feel the
broad undulations of the ocean. A mild breeze out of the east rippled the surface of the water.
Free of all mist, the horizon was ideal for taking sights.

There was nothing to be seen.  Not a reef, not an islet. No more Abraham Lincoln.  A deserted
immenseness.

Raising his sextant, Captain Nemo took the altitude of the sun, which would give him his latitude.
He waited for a few minutes until the orb touched the rim of the horizon.  While he was taking
his sights, he didn't move a muscle, and the instrument couldn't have been steadier in hands
made out of marble.

"Noon," he said.  "Professor, whenever you're ready. . . ."

I took one last look at the sea, a little yellowish near the landing places of Japan, and I
went below again to the main lounge.

There the captain fixed his position and used a chronometer to calculate his longitude, which
he double-checked against his previous observations of hour angles.  Then he told me:

"Professor Aronnax, we're in longitude 137 degrees 15' west--"

"West of which meridian?"  I asked quickly, hoping the captain's reply might give me a clue
to his nationality.

"Sir," he answered me, "I have chronometers variously set to the meridians of Paris, Greenwich,
and Washington, D.C. But in your honor, I'll use the one for Paris."

This reply told me nothing.  I bowed, and the commander went on:

"We're in longitude 137 degrees 15' west of the meridian of Paris, and latitude 30 degrees
7' north, in other words, about 300 miles from the shores of Japan.  At noon on this day of
November 8, we hereby begin our voyage of exploration under the waters."

"May God be with us!"  I replied.

"And now, professor," the captain added, "I'll leave you to your intellectual pursuits.  I've
set our course east-northeast at a depth of fifty meters.  Here are some large-scale charts
on which you'll be able to follow that course.  The lounge is at your disposal, and with your
permission, I'll take my leave."

Captain Nemo bowed.  I was left to myself, lost in my thoughts. They all centered on the Nautilus's
commander.  Would I ever learn the nationality of this eccentric man who had boasted of having
none? His sworn hate for humanity, a hate that perhaps was bent on some dreadful revenge--what
had provoked it?  Was he one of those unappreciated scholars, one of those geniuses "embittered
by the world," as Conseil expressed it, a latter-day Galileo, or maybe one of those men of
science, like America's Commander Maury, whose careers were ruined by political revolutions?
I couldn't say yet. As for me, whom fate had just brought aboard his vessel, whose life he
had held in the balance:  he had received me coolly but hospitably.  Only, he never took the
hand I extended to him. He never extended his own.

For an entire hour I was deep in these musings, trying to probe this mystery that fascinated
me so.  Then my eyes focused on a huge world map displayed on the table, and I put my finger
on the very spot where our just-determined longitude and latitude intersected.

Like the continents, the sea has its rivers.  These are exclusive currents that can be identified
by their temperature and color, the most remarkable being the one called the Gulf Stream. Science
has defined the global paths of five chief currents: one in the north Atlantic, a second in
the south Atlantic, a third in the north Pacific, a fourth in the south Pacific, and a fifth
in the southern Indian Ocean.  Also it's likely that a sixth current used to exist in the northern
Indian Ocean, when the Caspian and Aral Seas joined up with certain large Asian lakes to form
a single uniform expanse of water. It was this current the Nautilus was about to cross. I watched
it on the map with my eyes, I saw it lose itself in the immenseness of the Pacific, and I felt
myself swept along with it, when Ned Land and Conseil appeared in the lounge doorway.

My two gallant companions stood petrified at the sight of the wonders on display.

"Where are we?" the Canadian exclaimed.  "In the Quebec Museum?"

"Begging master's pardon," Conseil answered, "but this seems more like the Sommerard artifacts
exhibition!"

"My friends," I replied, signaling them to enter, "you're in neither Canada nor France, but
securely aboard the Nautilus, fifty meters below sea level."

"If master says so, then so be it," Conseil answered. "But in all honesty, this lounge is enough
to astonish even someone Flemish like myself."

"Indulge your astonishment, my friend, and have a look, because there's plenty of work here
for a classifier of your talents."

Conseil needed no encouraging.  Bending over the glass cases, the gallant lad was already muttering
choice words from the naturalist's vocabulary:  class Gastropoda, family Buccinoidea, genus
cowry, species Cypraea madagascariensis, etc.

Meanwhile Ned Land, less dedicated to conchology, questioned me about my interview with Captain
Nemo.  Had I discovered who he was, where he came from, where he was heading, how deep he was
taking us? In short, a thousand questions I had no time to answer.

I told him everything I knew--or, rather, everything I didn't know-- and I asked him what he
had seen or heard on his part.

"Haven't seen or heard a thing!" the Canadian replied. "I haven't even spotted the crew of
this boat.  By any chance, could they be electric too?"

"Electric?"

"Oh ye gods, I'm half tempted to believe it!  But back to you, Professor Aronnax," Ned Land
said, still hanging on to his ideas. "Can't you tell me how many men are on board?  Ten, twenty,
fifty, a hundred?"

"I'm unable to answer you, Mr. Land.  And trust me on this: for the time being, get rid of
these notions of taking over the Nautilus or escaping from it.  This boat is a masterpiece
of modern technology, and I'd be sorry to have missed it! Many people would welcome the circumstances
that have been handed us, just to walk in the midst of these wonders.  So keep calm, and let's
see what's happening around us."

"See!" the harpooner exclaimed.  "There's nothing to see, nothing we'll ever see from this
sheet-iron prison!  We're simply running around blindfolded--"

Ned Land was just pronouncing these last words when we were suddenly plunged into darkness,
utter darkness.  The ceiling lights went out so quickly, my eyes literally ached, just as if
we had experienced the opposite sensation of going from the deepest gloom to the brightest
sunlight.

We stood stock-still, not knowing what surprise was waiting for us, whether pleasant or unpleasant.
But a sliding sound became audible. You could tell that some panels were shifting over the
Nautilus's sides.

"It's the beginning of the end!"  Ned Land said.

". . . order Hydromedusa," Conseil muttered.

Suddenly, through two oblong openings, daylight appeared on both sides of the lounge.  The
liquid masses came into view, brightly lit by the ship's electric outpourings.  We were separated
from the sea by two panes of glass.  Initially I shuddered at the thought that these fragile
partitions could break; but strong copper bands secured them, giving them nearly infinite resistance.

The sea was clearly visible for a one-mile radius around the Nautilus.  What a sight!  What
pen could describe it? Who could portray the effects of this light through these translucent
sheets of water, the subtlety of its progressive shadings into the ocean's upper and lower strata?

The transparency of salt water has long been recognized. Its clarity is believed to exceed
that of spring water. The mineral and organic substances it holds in suspension actually increase
its translucency.  In certain parts of the Caribbean Sea, you can see the sandy bottom with
startling distinctness as deep as 145 meters down, and the penetrating power of the sun's rays
seems to give out only at a depth of 300 meters. But in this fluid setting traveled by the
Nautilus, our electric glow was being generated in the very heart of the waves. It was no longer
illuminated water, it was liquid light.

If we accept the hypotheses of the microbiologist Ehrenberg-- who believes that these underwater
depths are lit up by phosphorescent organisms--nature has certainly saved one of her most prodigious
sights for residents of the sea, and I could judge for myself from the thousandfold play of
the light. On both sides I had windows opening over these unexplored depths. The darkness in
the lounge enhanced the brightness outside, and we stared as if this clear glass were the window
of an immense aquarium.

The Nautilus seemed to be standing still.  This was due to the lack of landmarks.  But streaks
of water, parted by the ship's spur, sometimes threaded before our eyes with extraordinary speed.

In wonderment, we leaned on our elbows before these show windows, and our stunned silence remained
unbroken until Conseil said:

"You wanted to see something, Ned my friend; well, now you have something to see!"

"How unusual!" the Canadian put in, setting aside his tantrums and getaway schemes while submitting
to this irresistible allure. "A man would go an even greater distance just to stare at such
a sight!"

"Ah!"  I exclaimed.  "I see our captain's way of life! He's found himself a separate world
that saves its most astonishing wonders just for him!"

"But where are the fish?" the Canadian ventured to observe. "I don't see any fish!"

"Why would you care, Ned my friend?"  Conseil replied. "Since you have no knowledge of them."

"Me?  A fisherman!"  Ned Land exclaimed.

And on this subject a dispute arose between the two friends, since both were knowledgeable
about fish, but from totally different standpoints.

Everyone knows that fish make up the fourth and last class in the vertebrate branch.  They
have been quite aptly defined as: "cold-blooded vertebrates with a double circulatory system,
breathing through gills, and designed to live in water." They consist of two distinct series:
the series of bony fish, in other words, those whose spines have vertebrae made of bone; and
cartilaginous fish, in other words, those whose spines have vertebrae made of cartilage.

Possibly the Canadian was familiar with this distinction, but Conseil knew far more about it;
and since he and Ned were now fast friends, he just had to show off.  So he told the harpooner:

"Ned my friend, you're a slayer of fish, a highly skilled fisherman. You've caught a large
number of these fascinating animals. But I'll bet you don't know how they're classified."

"Sure I do," the harpooner replied in all seriousness. "They're classified into fish we eat
and fish we don't eat!"

"Spoken like a true glutton," Conseil replied.  "But tell me, are you familiar with the differences
between bony fish and cartilaginous fish?"

"Just maybe, Conseil."

"And how about the subdivisions of these two large classes?"

"I haven't the foggiest notion," the Canadian replied.

"All right, listen and learn, Ned my friend!  Bony fish are subdivided into six orders.  Primo,
the acanthopterygians, whose upper jaw is fully formed and free-moving, and whose gills take
the shape of a comb. This order consists of fifteen families, in other words, three-quarters
of all known fish.  Example:  the common perch."

"Pretty fair eating," Ned Land replied.

"Secundo," Conseil went on, "the abdominals, whose pelvic fins hang under the abdomen to the
rear of the pectorals but aren't attached to the shoulder bone, an order that's divided into
five families and makes up the great majority of freshwater fish.  Examples:  carp, pike."

"Ugh!" the Canadian put in with distinct scorn.  "You can keep the freshwater fish!"

"Tertio," Conseil said, "the subbrachians, whose pelvic fins are attached under the pectorals
and hang directly from the shoulder bone. This order contains four families.  Examples:  flatfish
such as sole, turbot, dab, plaice, brill, etc."

"Excellent, really excellent!" the harpooner exclaimed, interested in fish only from an edible
viewpoint.

"Quarto," Conseil went on, unabashed, "the apods, with long bodies that lack pelvic fins and
are covered by a heavy, often glutinous skin, an order consisting of only one family.  Examples:
common eels and electric eels."

"So-so, just so-so!" Ned Land replied.

"Quinto," Conseil said, "the lophobranchians, which have fully formed, free-moving jaws but
whose gills consist of little tufts arranged in pairs along their gill arches.  This order
includes only one family.  Examples:  seahorses and dragonfish."

"Bad, very bad!" the harpooner replied.

"Sexto and last," Conseil said, "the plectognaths, whose maxillary bone is firmly attached
to the side of the intermaxillary that forms the jaw, and whose palate arch is locked to the
skull by sutures that render the jaw immovable, an order lacking true pelvic fins and which
consists of two families.  Examples:  puffers and moonfish."

"They're an insult to a frying pan!" the Canadian exclaimed.

"Are you grasping all this, Ned my friend?" asked the scholarly Conseil.

"Not a lick of it, Conseil my friend," the harpooner replied. "But keep going, because you
fill me with fascination."

"As for cartilaginous fish," Conseil went on unflappably, "they consist of only three orders."

"Good news," Ned put in.

"Primo, the cyclostomes, whose jaws are fused into a flexible ring and whose gill openings
are simply a large number of holes, an order consisting of only one family.  Example:  the
lamprey."

"An acquired taste," Ned Land replied.

"Secundo, the selacians, with gills resembling those of the cyclostomes but whose lower jaw
is free-moving. This order, which is the most important in the class, consists of two families.
Examples:  the ray and the shark."

"What!"  Ned Land exclaimed.  "Rays and man-eaters in the same order? Well, Conseil my friend,
on behalf of the rays, I wouldn't advise you to put them in the same fish tank!"

"Tertio," Conseil replied, "The sturionians, whose gill opening is the usual single slit adorned
with a gill cover, an order consisting of four genera.  Example:  the sturgeon."

"Ah, Conseil my friend, you saved the best for last, in my opinion anyhow!  And that's all of 'em?"

"Yes, my gallant Ned," Conseil replied.  "And note well, even when one has grasped all this,
one still knows next to nothing, because these families are subdivided into genera, subgenera,
species, varieties--"

"All right, Conseil my friend," the harpooner said, leaning toward the glass panel, "here come
a couple of your varieties now!"

"Yes!  Fish!"  Conseil exclaimed.  "One would think he was in front of an aquarium!"

"No," I replied, "because an aquarium is nothing more than a cage, and these fish are as free
as birds in the air!"

"Well, Conseil my friend, identify them!  Start naming them!" Ned Land exclaimed.

"Me?"  Conseil replied.  "I'm unable to!  That's my employer's bailiwick!"

And in truth, although the fine lad was a classifying maniac, he was no naturalist, and I doubt
that he could tell a bonito from a tuna. In short, he was the exact opposite of the Canadian,
who knew nothing about classification but could instantly put a name to any fish.

"A triggerfish," I said.

"It's a Chinese triggerfish," Ned Land replied.

"Genus Balistes, family Scleroderma, order Plectognatha," Conseil muttered.

Assuredly, Ned and Conseil in combination added up to one outstanding naturalist.

The Canadian was not mistaken.  Cavorting around the Nautilus was a school of triggerfish with
flat bodies, grainy skins, armed with stings on their dorsal fins, and with four prickly rows
of quills quivering on both sides of their tails. Nothing could have been more wonderful than
the skin covering them: white underneath, gray above, with spots of gold sparkling in the dark
eddies of the waves.  Around them, rays were undulating like sheets flapping in the wind, and
among these I spotted, much to my glee, a Chinese ray, yellowish on its topside, a dainty pink
on its belly, and armed with three stings behind its eyes; a rare species whose very existence
was still doubted in Lacépède's day, since that pioneering classifier of fish had seen one
only in a portfolio of Japanese drawings.

For two hours a whole aquatic army escorted the Nautilus.  In the midst of their leaping and
cavorting, while they competed with each other in beauty, radiance, and speed, I could distinguish
some green wrasse, bewhiskered mullet marked with pairs of black lines, white gobies from the
genus Eleotris with curved caudal fins and violet spots on the back, wonderful Japanese mackerel
from the genus Scomber with blue bodies and silver heads, glittering azure goldfish whose name
by itself gives their full description, several varieties of porgy or gilthead (some banded
gilthead with fins variously blue and yellow, some with horizontal heraldic bars and enhanced
by a black strip around their caudal area, some with color zones and elegantly corseted in
their six waistbands), trumpetfish with flutelike beaks that looked like genuine seafaring
woodcocks and were sometimes a meter long, Japanese salamanders, serpentine moray eels from
the genus Echidna that were six feet long with sharp little eyes and a huge mouth bristling
with teeth; etc.

Our wonderment stayed at an all-time fever pitch. Our exclamations were endless.  Ned identified
the fish, Conseil classified them, and as for me, I was in ecstasy over the verve of their
movements and the beauty of their forms. Never before had I been given the chance to glimpse
these animals alive and at large in their native element.

Given such a complete collection from the seas of Japan and China, I won't mention every variety
that passed before our dazzled eyes. More numerous than birds in the air, these fish raced
right up to us, no doubt attracted by the brilliant glow of our electric beacon.

Suddenly daylight appeared in the lounge.  The sheet-iron panels slid shut.  The magical vision
disappeared.  But for a good while I kept dreaming away, until the moment my eyes focused on
the instruments hanging on the wall.  The compass still showed our heading as east-northeast,
the pressure gauge indicated a pressure of five atmospheres (corresponding to a depth of fifty
meters), and the electric log gave our speed as fifteen miles per hour.

I waited for Captain Nemo.  But he didn't appear.  As for me, I repaired to my stateroom. 
There I found dinner ready for me. It consisted of turtle soup made from the daintiest hawksbill,
a red mullet with white, slightly flaky flesh, whose liver, when separately prepared, makes
delicious eating, plus loin of imperial angelfish, whose flavor struck me as even better than
salmon.

I spent the evening in reading, writing, and thinking. Then drowsiness overtook me, I stretched
out on my eelgrass mattress, and I fell into a deep slumber, while the Nautilus glided through
the swiftly flowing Black Current.

CHAPTER 15

An Invitation in Writing

THE NEXT DAY, November 9, I woke up only after a long, twelve-hour slumber.  Conseil, a creature
of habit, came to ask "how master's night went," and to offer his services. He had left his
Canadian friend sleeping like a man who had never done anything else.

I let the gallant lad babble as he pleased, without giving him much in the way of a reply.
I was concerned about Captain Nemo's absence during our session the previous afternoon, and
I hoped to see him again today.

Soon I had put on my clothes, which were woven from strands of seashell tissue.  More than
once their composition provoked comments from Conseil.  I informed him that they were made
from the smooth, silken filaments with which the fan mussel, a type of seashell quite abundant
along Mediterranean beaches, attaches itself to rocks. In olden times, fine fabrics, stockings,
and gloves were made from such filaments, because they were both very soft and very warm. So
the Nautilus's crew could dress themselves at little cost, without needing a thing from cotton
growers, sheep, or silkworms on shore.

As soon as I was dressed, I made my way to the main lounge. It was deserted.

I dove into studying the conchological treasures amassed inside the glass cases.  I also investigated
the huge plant albums that were filled with the rarest marine herbs, which, although they were
pressed and dried, still kept their wonderful colors. Among these valuable water plants, I
noted various seaweed: some Cladostephus verticillatus, peacock's tails, fig-leafed caulerpa,
grain-bearing beauty bushes, delicate rosetangle tinted scarlet, sea colander arranged into
fan shapes, mermaid's cups that looked like the caps of squat mushrooms and for years had been
classified among the zoophytes; in short, a complete series of algae.

The entire day passed without my being honored by a visit from Captain Nemo.  The panels in
the lounge didn't open. Perhaps they didn't want us to get tired of these beautiful things.

The Nautilus kept to an east-northeasterly heading, a speed of twelve miles per hour, and a
depth between fifty and sixty meters.

Next day, November 10:  the same neglect, the same solitude. I didn't see a soul from the crew.
Ned and Conseil spent the better part of the day with me.  They were astonished at the captain's
inexplicable absence.  Was this eccentric man ill? Did he want to change his plans concerning us?

But after all, as Conseil noted, we enjoyed complete freedom, we were daintily and abundantly
fed.  Our host had kept to the terms of his agreement.  We couldn't complain, and moreover
the very uniqueness of our situation had such generous rewards in store for us, we had no grounds
for criticism.

That day I started my diary of these adventures, which has enabled me to narrate them with
the most scrupulous accuracy; and one odd detail: I wrote it on paper manufactured from marine
eelgrass.

Early in the morning on November 11, fresh air poured through the Nautilus's interior, informing
me that we had returned to the surface of the ocean to renew our oxygen supply. I headed for
the central companionway and climbed onto the platform.

It was six o'clock. I found the weather overcast, the sea gray but calm. Hardly a billow. 
I hoped to encounter Captain Nemo there--would he come? I saw only the helmsman imprisoned
in his glass-windowed pilothouse. Seated on the ledge furnished by the hull of the skiff, I
inhaled the sea's salty aroma with great pleasure.

Little by little, the mists were dispersed under the action of the sun's rays.  The radiant
orb cleared the eastern horizon. Under its gaze, the sea caught on fire like a trail of gunpowder.
Scattered on high, the clouds were colored in bright, wonderfully shaded hues, and numerous
"ladyfingers" warned of daylong winds.*

*Author's Note:  "Ladyfingers" are small, thin, white clouds with ragged edges.

But what were mere winds to this Nautilus, which no storms could intimidate!

So I was marveling at this delightful sunrise, so life-giving and cheerful, when I heard someone
climbing onto the platform.

I was prepared to greet Captain Nemo, but it was his chief officer who appeared--whom I had
already met during our first visit with the captain.  He advanced over the platform, not seeming
to notice my presence.  A powerful spyglass to his eye, he scrutinized every point of the horizon
with the utmost care. Then, his examination over, he approached the hatch and pronounced a
phrase whose exact wording follows below.  I remember it because, every morning, it was repeated
under the same circumstances. It ran like this:

"Nautron respoc lorni virch."

What it meant I was unable to say.

These words pronounced, the chief officer went below again. I thought the Nautilus was about
to resume its underwater navigating. So I went down the hatch and back through the gangways
to my stateroom.

Five days passed in this way with no change in our situation. Every morning I climbed onto
the platform.  The same phrase was pronounced by the same individual.  Captain Nemo did not appear.

I was pursuing the policy that we had seen the last of him, when on November 16, while reentering
my stateroom with Ned and Conseil, I found a note addressed to me on the table.

I opened it impatiently.  It was written in a script that was clear and neat but a bit "Old
English" in style, its characters reminding me of German calligraphy.

The note was worded as follows:

Professor Aronnax

Aboard the Nautilus

November 16, 1867

Captain Nemo invites Professor Aronnax on a hunting trip that will take place tomorrow morning
in his Crespo Island forests. He hopes nothing will prevent the professor from attending, and
he looks forward with pleasure to the professor's companions joining him.

CAPTAIN NEMO,

Commander of the Nautilus.

"A hunting trip!"  Ned exclaimed.

"And in his forests on Crespo Island!"  Conseil added.

"But does this mean the old boy goes ashore?"  Ned Land went on.

"That seems to be the gist of it," I said, rereading the letter.

"Well, we've got to accept!" the Canadian answered. "Once we're on solid ground, we'll figure
out a course of action. Besides, it wouldn't pain me to eat a couple slices of fresh venison!"

Without trying to reconcile the contradictions between Captain Nemo's professed horror of continents
or islands and his invitation to go hunting in a forest, I was content to reply:

"First let's look into this Crespo Island."

I consulted the world map; and in latitude 32 degrees 40' north and longitude 167 degrees 50'
west, I found an islet that had been discovered in 1801 by Captain Crespo, which old Spanish
charts called Rocca de la Plata, in other words, "Silver Rock."  So we were about 1,800 miles
from our starting point, and by a slight change of heading, the Nautilus was bringing us back
toward the southeast.

I showed my companions this small, stray rock in the middle of the north Pacific.

"If Captain Nemo does sometimes go ashore," I told them, "at least he only picks desert islands!"

Ned Land shook his head without replying; then he and Conseil left me. After supper was served
me by the mute and emotionless steward, I fell asleep; but not without some anxieties.

When I woke up the next day, November 17, I sensed that the Nautilus was completely motionless.
I dressed hurriedly and entered the main lounge.

Captain Nemo was there waiting for me.  He stood up, bowed, and asked if it suited me to come
along.

Since he made no allusion to his absence the past eight days, I also refrained from mentioning
it, and I simply answered that my companions and I were ready to go with him.

"Only, sir," I added, "I'll take the liberty of addressing a question to you."

"Address away, Professor Aronnax, and if I'm able to answer, I will."

"Well then, captain, how is it that you've severed all ties with the shore, yet you own forests
on Crespo Island?"

"Professor," the captain answered me, "these forests of mine don't bask in the heat and light
of the sun.  They aren't frequented by lions, tigers, panthers, or other quadrupeds. They're
known only to me.  They grow only for me.  These forests aren't on land, they're actual underwater
forests."

"Underwater forests!"  I exclaimed.

"Yes, professor."

"And you're offering to take me to them?"

"Precisely."

"On foot?"

"Without getting your feet wet."

"While hunting?"

"While hunting."

"Rifles in hand?"

"Rifles in hand."

I stared at the Nautilus's commander with an air anything but flattering to the man.

"Assuredly," I said to myself, "he's contracted some mental illness. He's had a fit that's
lasted eight days and isn't over even yet. What a shame!  I liked him better eccentric than
insane!"

These thoughts were clearly readable on my face; but Captain Nemo remained content with inviting
me to follow him, and I did so like a man resigned to the worst.

We arrived at the dining room, where we found breakfast served.

"Professor Aronnax," the captain told me, "I beg you to share my breakfast without formality.
We can chat while we eat. Because, although I promised you a stroll in my forests, I made no
pledge to arrange for your encountering a restaurant there. Accordingly, eat your breakfast
like a man who'll probably eat dinner only when it's extremely late."

I did justice to this meal.  It was made up of various fish and some slices of sea cucumber,
that praiseworthy zoophyte, all garnished with such highly appetizing seaweed as the Porphyra
laciniata and the Laurencia primafetida.  Our beverage consisted of clear water to which, following
the captain's example, I added some drops of a fermented liquor extracted by the Kamchatka
process from the seaweed known by name as Rhodymenia palmata.

At first Captain Nemo ate without pronouncing a single word. Then he told me:

"Professor, when I proposed that you go hunting in my Crespo forests, you thought I was contradicting
myself.  When I informed you that it was an issue of underwater forests, you thought I'd gone
insane. Professor, you must never make snap judgments about your fellow man."

"But, captain, believe me--"

"Kindly listen to me, and you'll see if you have grounds for accusing me of insanity or self-contradiction."

"I'm all attention."

"Professor, you know as well as I do that a man can live underwater so long as he carries with
him his own supply of breathable air. For underwater work projects, the workman wears a waterproof
suit with his head imprisoned in a metal capsule, while he receives air from above by means
of force pumps and flow regulators."

"That's the standard equipment for a diving suit," I said.

"Correct, but under such conditions the man has no freedom. He's attached to a pump that sends
him air through an india-rubber hose; it's an actual chain that fetters him to the shore, and
if we were to be bound in this way to the Nautilus, we couldn't go far either."

"Then how do you break free?"  I asked.

"We use the Rouquayrol-Denayrouze device, invented by two of your fellow countrymen but refined
by me for my own special uses, thereby enabling you to risk these new physiological conditions
without suffering any organic disorders.  It consists of a tank built from heavy sheet iron
in which I store air under a pressure of fifty atmospheres.  This tank is fastened to the back
by means of straps, like a soldier's knapsack.  Its top part forms a box where the air is regulated
by a bellows mechanism and can be released only at its proper tension.  In the Rouquayrol device
that has been in general use, two india-rubber hoses leave this box and feed to a kind of tent
that imprisons the operator's nose and mouth; one hose is for the entrance of air to be inhaled,
the other for the exit of air to be exhaled, and the tongue closes off the former or the latter
depending on the breather's needs. But in my case, since I face considerable pressures at the
bottom of the sea, I needed to enclose my head in a copper sphere, like those found on standard
diving suits, and the two hoses for inhalation and exhalation now feed to that sphere."

"That's perfect, Captain Nemo, but the air you carry must be quickly depleted; and once it
contains no more than 15% oxygen, it becomes unfit for breathing."

"Surely, but as I told you, Professor Aronnax, the Nautilus's pumps enable me to store air
under considerable pressure, and given this circumstance, the tank on my diving equipment can
supply breathable air for nine or ten hours."

"I've no more objections to raise," I replied.  "I'll only ask you, captain:  how can you light
your way at the bottom of the ocean?"

"With the Ruhmkorff device, Professor Aronnax.  If the first is carried on the back, the second
is fastened to the belt. It consists of a Bunsen battery that I activate not with potassium
dichromate but with sodium.  An induction coil gathers the electricity generated and directs
it to a specially designed lantern. In this lantern one finds a glass spiral that contains
only a residue of carbon dioxide gas.  When the device is operating, this gas becomes luminous
and gives off a continuous whitish light. Thus provided for, I breathe and I see."

"Captain Nemo, to my every objection you give such crushing answers, I'm afraid to entertain
a single doubt.  However, though I have no choice but to accept both the Rouquayrol and Ruhmkorff
devices, I'd like to register some reservations about the rifle with which you'll equip me."

"But it isn't a rifle that uses gunpowder," the captain replied.

"Then it's an air gun?"

"Surely.  How can I make gunpowder on my ship when I have no saltpeter, sulfur, or charcoal?"

"Even so," I replied, "to fire underwater in a medium that's 855 times denser than air, you'd
have to overcome considerable resistance."

"That doesn't necessarily follow.  There are certain Fulton-style guns perfected by the Englishmen
Philippe-Coles and Burley, the Frenchman Furcy, and the Italian Landi; they're equipped with
a special system of airtight fastenings and can fire in underwater conditions.  But I repeat:
having no gunpowder, I've replaced it with air at high pressure, which is abundantly supplied
me by the Nautilus's pumps."

"But this air must be swiftly depleted."

"Well, in a pinch can't my Rouquayrol tank supply me with more?  All I have to do is draw it
from an ad hoc spigot.* Besides, Professor Aronnax, you'll see for yourself that during these
underwater hunting trips, we make no great expenditure of either air or bullets."

*Latin: a spigot "just for that purpose."  Ed.

"But it seems to me that in this semidarkness, amid this liquid that's so dense in comparison
to the atmosphere, a gunshot couldn't carry far and would prove fatal only with difficulty!"

"On the contrary, sir, with this rifle every shot is fatal; and as soon as the animal is hit,
no matter how lightly, it falls as if struck by lightning."

"Why?"

"Because this rifle doesn't shoot ordinary bullets but little glass capsules invented by the
Austrian chemist Leniebroek, and I have a considerable supply of them.  These glass capsules
are covered with a strip of steel and weighted with a lead base; they're genuine little Leyden
jars charged with high-voltage electricity. They go off at the slightest impact, and the animal,
no matter how strong, drops dead.  I might add that these capsules are no bigger than number
4 shot, and the chamber of any ordinary rifle could hold ten of them."

"I'll quit debating," I replied, getting up from the table. "And all that's left is for me
to shoulder my rifle. So where you go, I'll go."

Captain Nemo led me to the Nautilus's stern, and passing by Ned and Conseil's cabin, I summoned
my two companions, who instantly followed us.

Then we arrived at a cell located within easy access of the engine room; in this cell we were
to get dressed for our stroll.

CHAPTER 16

Strolling the Plains

THIS CELL, properly speaking, was the Nautilus's arsenal and wardrobe. Hanging from its walls,
a dozen diving outfits were waiting for anybody who wanted to take a stroll.

After seeing these, Ned Land exhibited an obvious distaste for the idea of putting one on.

"But my gallant Ned," I told him, "the forests of Crespo Island are simply underwater forests!"

"Oh great!" put in the disappointed harpooner, watching his dreams of fresh meat fade away.
"And you, Professor Aronnax, are you going to stick yourself inside these clothes?"

"It has to be, Mr. Ned."

"Have it your way, sir," the harpooner replied, shrugging his shoulders. "But speaking for
myself, I'll never get into those things unless they force me!"

"No one will force you, Mr. Land," Captain Nemo said.

"And is Conseil going to risk it?"  Ned asked.

"Where master goes, I go," Conseil replied.

At the captain's summons, two crewmen came to help us put on these heavy, waterproof clothes,
made from seamless india rubber and expressly designed to bear considerable pressures. They
were like suits of armor that were both yielding and resistant, you might say.  These clothes
consisted of jacket and pants. The pants ended in bulky footwear adorned with heavy lead soles.
The fabric of the jacket was reinforced with copper mail that shielded the chest, protected
it from the water's pressure, and allowed the lungs to function freely; the sleeves ended in
supple gloves that didn't impede hand movements.

These perfected diving suits, it was easy to see, were a far cry from such misshapen costumes
as the cork breastplates, leather jumpers, seagoing tunics, barrel helmets, etc., invented
and acclaimed in the 18th century.

Conseil and I were soon dressed in these diving suits, as were Captain Nemo and one of his
companions--a herculean type who must have been prodigiously strong.  All that remained was
to encase one's head in its metal sphere.  But before proceeding with this operation, I asked
the captain for permission to examine the rifles set aside for us.

One of the Nautilus's men presented me with a streamlined rifle whose butt was boilerplate
steel, hollow inside, and of fairly large dimensions.  This served as a tank for the compressed
air, which a trigger-operated valve could release into the metal chamber. In a groove where
the butt was heaviest, a cartridge clip held some twenty electric bullets that, by means of
a spring, automatically took their places in the barrel of the rifle. As soon as one shot had
been fired, another was ready to go off.

"Captain Nemo," I said, "this is an ideal, easy-to-use weapon. I ask only to put it to the
test.  But how will we reach the bottom of the sea?"

"Right now, professor, the Nautilus is aground in ten meters of water, and we've only to depart."

"But how will we set out?"

"You'll see."

Captain Nemo inserted his cranium into its spherical headgear. Conseil and I did the same,
but not without hearing the Canadian toss us a sarcastic "happy hunting."  On top, the suit
ended in a collar of threaded copper onto which the metal helmet was screwed. Three holes,
protected by heavy glass, allowed us to see in any direction with simply a turn of the head
inside the sphere. Placed on our backs, the Rouquayrol device went into operation as soon as
it was in position, and for my part, I could breathe with ease.

The Ruhmkorff lamp hanging from my belt, my rifle in hand, I was ready to go forth.  But in
all honesty, while imprisoned in these heavy clothes and nailed to the deck by my lead soles,
it was impossible for me to take a single step.

But this circumstance had been foreseen, because I felt myself propelled into a little room
adjoining the wardrobe. Towed in the same way, my companions went with me.  I heard a door
with watertight seals close after us, and we were surrounded by profound darkness.

After some minutes a sharp hissing reached my ears. I felt a distinct sensation of cold rising
from my feet to my chest. Apparently a stopcock inside the boat was letting in water from outside,
which overran us and soon filled up the room. Contrived in the Nautilus's side, a second door
then opened. We were lit by a subdued light.  An instant later our feet were treading the bottom
of the sea.

And now, how can I convey the impressions left on me by this stroll under the waters.  Words
are powerless to describe such wonders! When even the painter's brush can't depict the effects
unique to the liquid element, how can the writer's pen hope to reproduce them?

Captain Nemo walked in front, and his companion followed us a few steps to the rear.  Conseil
and I stayed next to each other, as if daydreaming that through our metal carapaces, a little
polite conversation might still be possible!  Already I no longer felt the bulkiness of my
clothes, footwear, and air tank, nor the weight of the heavy sphere inside which my head was
rattling like an almond in its shell. Once immersed in water, all these objects lost a part
of their weight equal to the weight of the liquid they displaced, and thanks to this law of
physics discovered by Archimedes, I did just fine. I was no longer an inert mass, and I had,
comparatively speaking, great freedom of movement.

Lighting up the seafloor even thirty feet beneath the surface of the ocean, the sun astonished
me with its power.  The solar rays easily crossed this aqueous mass and dispersed its dark
colors. I could easily distinguish objects 100 meters away.  Farther on, the bottom was tinted
with fine shades of ultramarine; then, off in the distance, it turned blue and faded in the
midst of a hazy darkness. Truly, this water surrounding me was just a kind of air, denser than
the atmosphere on land but almost as transparent. Above me I could see the calm surface of
the ocean.

We were walking on sand that was fine-grained and smooth, not wrinkled like beach sand, which
preserves the impressions left by the waves.  This dazzling carpet was a real mirror, throwing
back the sun's rays with startling intensity.  The outcome: an immense vista of reflections
that penetrated every liquid molecule. Will anyone believe me if I assert that at this thirty-foot
depth, I could see as if it was broad daylight?

For a quarter of an hour, I trod this blazing sand, which was strewn with tiny crumbs of seashell.
Looming like a long reef, the Nautilus's hull disappeared little by little, but when night
fell in the midst of the waters, the ship's beacon would surely facilitate our return on board,
since its rays carried with perfect distinctness. This effect is difficult to understand for
anyone who has never seen light beams so sharply defined on shore.  There the dust that saturates
the air gives such rays the appearance of a luminous fog; but above water as well as underwater,
shafts of electric light are transmitted with incomparable clarity.

Meanwhile we went ever onward, and these vast plains of sand seemed endless.  My hands parted
liquid curtains that closed again behind me, and my footprints faded swiftly under the water's
pressure.

Soon, scarcely blurred by their distance from us, the forms of some objects took shape before
my eyes.  I recognized the lower slopes of some magnificent rocks carpeted by the finest zoophyte
specimens, and right off, I was struck by an effect unique to this medium.

By then it was ten o'clock in the morning.  The sun's rays hit the surface of the waves at
a fairly oblique angle, decomposing by refraction as though passing through a prism; and when
this light came in contact with flowers, rocks, buds, seashells, and polyps, the edges of these
objects were shaded with all seven hues of the solar spectrum. This riot of rainbow tints was
a wonder, a feast for the eyes: a genuine kaleidoscope of red, green, yellow, orange, violet,
indigo, and blue; in short, the whole palette of a color-happy painter! If only I had been
able to share with Conseil the intense sensations rising in my brain, competing with him in
exclamations of wonderment! If only I had known, like Captain Nemo and his companion, how to
exchange thoughts by means of prearranged signals! So, for lack of anything better, I talked
to myself:  I declaimed inside this copper box that topped my head, spending more air on empty
words than was perhaps advisable.

Conseil, like me, had stopped before this splendid sight. Obviously, in the presence of these
zoophyte and mollusk specimens, the fine lad was classifying his head off.  Polyps and echinoderms
abounded on the seafloor:  various isis coral, cornularian coral living in isolation, tufts
of virginal genus Oculina formerly known by the name "white coral," prickly fungus coral in
the shape of mushrooms, sea anemone holding on by their muscular disks, providing a literal
flowerbed adorned by jellyfish from the genus Porpita wearing collars of azure tentacles, and
starfish that spangled the sand, including veinlike feather stars from the genus Asterophyton
that were like fine lace embroidered by the hands of water nymphs, their festoons swaying to
the faint undulations caused by our walking. It filled me with real chagrin to crush underfoot
the gleaming mollusk samples that littered the seafloor by the thousands: concentric comb shells,
hammer shells, coquina (seashells that actually hop around), top-shell snails, red helmet shells,
angel-wing conchs, sea hares, and so many other exhibits from this inexhaustible ocean. But
we had to keep walking, and we went forward while overhead there scudded schools of Portuguese
men-of-war that let their ultramarine tentacles drift in their wakes, medusas whose milky white
or dainty pink parasols were festooned with azure tassels and shaded us from the sun's rays,
plus jellyfish of the species Pelagia panopyra that, in the dark, would have strewn our path
with phosphorescent glimmers!

All these wonders I glimpsed in the space of a quarter of a mile, barely pausing, following
Captain Nemo whose gestures kept beckoning me onward.  Soon the nature of the seafloor changed.
The plains of sand were followed by a bed of that viscous slime Americans call "ooze," which
is composed exclusively of seashells rich in limestone or silica. Then we crossed a prairie
of algae, open-sea plants that the waters hadn't yet torn loose, whose vegetation grew in wild
profusion. Soft to the foot, these densely textured lawns would have rivaled the most luxuriant
carpets woven by the hand of man. But while this greenery was sprawling under our steps, it
didn't neglect us overhead.  The surface of the water was crisscrossed by a floating arbor
of marine plants belonging to that superabundant algae family that numbers more than 2,000
known species. I saw long ribbons of fucus drifting above me, some globular, others tubular:
Laurencia, Cladostephus with the slenderest foliage, Rhodymenia palmata resembling the fan
shapes of cactus. I observed that green-colored plants kept closer to the surface of the sea,
while reds occupied a medium depth, which left blacks and browns in charge of designing gardens
and flowerbeds in the ocean's lower strata.

These algae are a genuine prodigy of creation, one of the wonders of world flora.  This family
produces both the biggest and smallest vegetables in the world.  Because, just as 40,000 near-invisible
buds have been counted in one five-square-millimeter space, so also have fucus plants been
gathered that were over 500 meters long!

We had been gone from the Nautilus for about an hour and a half. It was almost noon.  I spotted
this fact in the perpendicularity of the sun's rays, which were no longer refracted.  The magic
of these solar colors disappeared little by little, with emerald and sapphire shades vanishing
from our surroundings altogether. We walked with steady steps that rang on the seafloor with
astonishing intensity.  The tiniest sounds were transmitted with a speed to which the ear is
unaccustomed on shore. In fact, water is a better conductor of sound than air, and under the
waves noises carry four times as fast.

Just then the seafloor began to slope sharply downward. The light took on a uniform hue.  We
reached a depth of 100 meters, by which point we were undergoing a pressure of ten atmospheres.
But my diving clothes were built along such lines that I never suffered from this pressure.
I felt only a certain tightness in the joints of my fingers, and even this discomfort soon
disappeared. As for the exhaustion bound to accompany a two-hour stroll in such unfamiliar
trappings--it was nil.  Helped by the water, my movements were executed with startling ease.

Arriving at this 300-foot depth, I still detected the sun's rays, but just barely.  Their intense
brilliance had been followed by a reddish twilight, a midpoint between day and night. But we
could see well enough to find our way, and it still wasn't necessary to activate the Ruhmkorff
device.

Just then Captain Nemo stopped.  He waited until I joined him, then he pointed a finger at
some dark masses outlined in the shadows a short distance away.

"It's the forest of Crespo Island," I thought; and I was not mistaken.

CHAPTER 17

An Underwater Forest

WE HAD FINALLY arrived on the outskirts of this forest, surely one of the finest in Captain
Nemo's immense domains. He regarded it as his own and had laid the same claim to it that, in
the first days of the world, the first men had to their forests on land.  Besides, who else
could dispute his ownership of this underwater property?  What other, bolder pioneer would
come, ax in hand, to clear away its dark underbrush?

This forest was made up of big treelike plants, and when we entered beneath their huge arches,
my eyes were instantly struck by the unique arrangement of their branches--an arrangement that
I had never before encountered.

None of the weeds carpeting the seafloor, none of the branches bristling from the shrubbery,
crept, or leaned, or stretched on a horizontal plane. They all rose right up toward the surface
of the ocean. Every filament or ribbon, no matter how thin, stood ramrod straight. Fucus plants
and creepers were growing in stiff perpendicular lines, governed by the density of the element
that generated them. After I parted them with my hands, these otherwise motionless plants would
shoot right back to their original positions. It was the regime of verticality.

I soon grew accustomed to this bizarre arrangement, likewise to the comparative darkness surrounding
us.  The seafloor in this forest was strewn with sharp chunks of stone that were hard to avoid.
Here the range of underwater flora seemed pretty comprehensive to me, as well as more abundant
than it might have been in the arctic or tropical zones, where such exhibits are less common.
But for a few minutes I kept accidentally confusing the two kingdoms, mistaking zoophytes for
water plants, animals for vegetables. And who hasn't made the same blunder?  Flora and fauna
are so closely associated in the underwater world!

I observed that all these exhibits from the vegetable kingdom were attached to the seafloor
by only the most makeshift methods. They had no roots and didn't care which solid objects secured
them, sand, shells, husks, or pebbles; they didn't ask their hosts for sustenance, just a point
of purchase. These plants are entirely self-propagating, and the principle of their existence
lies in the water that sustains and nourishes them. In place of leaves, most of them sprouted
blades of unpredictable shape, which were confined to a narrow gamut of colors consisting only
of pink, crimson, green, olive, tan, and brown.  There I saw again, but not yet pressed and
dried like the Nautilus's specimens, some peacock's tails spread open like fans to stir up
a cooling breeze, scarlet rosetangle, sea tangle stretching out their young and edible shoots,
twisting strings of kelp from the genus Nereocystis that bloomed to a height of fifteen meters,
bouquets of mermaid's cups whose stems grew wider at the top, and a number of other open-sea
plants, all without flowers.  "It's an odd anomaly in this bizarre element!" as one witty naturalist
puts it.  "The animal kingdom blossoms, and the vegetable kingdom doesn't!"

These various types of shrubbery were as big as trees in the temperate zones; in the damp shade
between them, there were clustered actual bushes of moving flowers, hedges of zoophytes in
which there grew stony coral striped with twisting furrows, yellowish sea anemone from the
genus Caryophylia with translucent tentacles, plus anemone with grassy tufts from the genus
Zoantharia; and to complete the illusion, minnows flitted from branch to branch like a swarm
of hummingbirds, while there rose underfoot, like a covey of snipe, yellow fish from the genus
Lepisocanthus with bristling jaws and sharp scales, flying gurnards, and pinecone fish.

Near one o'clock, Captain Nemo gave the signal to halt. Speaking for myself, I was glad to
oblige, and we stretched out beneath an arbor of winged kelp, whose long thin tendrils stood
up like arrows.

This short break was a delight.  It lacked only the charm of conversation.  But it was impossible
to speak, impossible to reply. I simply nudged my big copper headpiece against Conseil's headpiece.
I saw a happy gleam in the gallant lad's eyes, and to communicate his pleasure, he jiggled
around inside his carapace in the world's silliest way.

After four hours of strolling, I was quite astonished not to feel any intense hunger.  What
kept my stomach in such a good mood I'm unable to say.  But, in exchange, I experienced that
irresistible desire for sleep that comes over every diver. Accordingly, my eyes soon closed
behind their heavy glass windows and I fell into an uncontrollable doze, which until then I
had been able to fight off only through the movements of our walking. Captain Nemo and his
muscular companion were already stretched out in this clear crystal, setting us a fine naptime
example.

How long I was sunk in this torpor I cannot estimate; but when I awoke, it seemed as if the
sun were settling toward the horizon. Captain Nemo was already up, and I had started to stretch
my limbs, when an unexpected apparition brought me sharply to my feet.

A few paces away, a monstrous, meter-high sea spider was staring at me with beady eyes, poised
to spring at me. Although my diving suit was heavy enough to protect me from this animal's
bites, I couldn't keep back a shudder of horror. Just then Conseil woke up, together with the
Nautilus's sailor. Captain Nemo alerted his companion to this hideous crustacean, which a swing
of the rifle butt quickly brought down, and I watched the monster's horrible legs writhing
in dreadful convulsions.

This encounter reminded me that other, more daunting animals must be lurking in these dark
reaches, and my diving suit might not be adequate protection against their attacks.  Such thoughts
hadn't previously crossed my mind, and I was determined to keep on my guard. Meanwhile I had
assumed this rest period would be the turning point in our stroll, but I was mistaken; and
instead of heading back to the Nautilus, Captain Nemo continued his daring excursion.

The seafloor kept sinking, and its significantly steeper slope took us to greater depths. 
It must have been nearly three o'clock when we reached a narrow valley gouged between high,
vertical walls and located 150 meters down.  Thanks to the perfection of our equipment, we
had thus gone ninety meters below the limit that nature had, until then, set on man's underwater
excursions.

I say 150 meters, although I had no instruments for estimating this distance.  But I knew that
the sun's rays, even in the clearest seas, could reach no deeper.  So at precisely this point
the darkness became profound.  Not a single object was visible past ten paces.  Consequently,
I had begun to grope my way when suddenly I saw the glow of an intense white light. Captain
Nemo had just activated his electric device. His companion did likewise.  Conseil and I followed
suit. By turning a switch, I established contact between the induction coil and the glass spiral,
and the sea, lit up by our four lanterns, was illuminated for a radius of twenty-five meters.

Captain Nemo continued to plummet into the dark depths of this forest, whose shrubbery grew
ever more sparse.  I observed that vegetable life was disappearing more quickly than animal
life.  The open-sea plants had already left behind the increasingly arid seafloor, where a
prodigious number of animals were still swarming: zoophytes, articulates, mollusks, and fish.

While we were walking, I thought the lights of our Ruhmkorff devices would automatically attract
some inhabitants of these dark strata. But if they did approach us, at least they kept at a
distance regrettable from the hunter's standpoint.  Several times I saw Captain Nemo stop and
take aim with his rifle; then, after sighting down its barrel for a few seconds, he would straighten
up and resume his walk.

Finally, at around four o'clock, this marvelous excursion came to an end. A wall of superb
rocks stood before us, imposing in its sheer mass: a pile of gigantic stone blocks, an enormous
granite cliffside pitted with dark caves but not offering a single gradient we could climb
up. This was the underpinning of Crespo Island.  This was land.

The captain stopped suddenly.  A gesture from him brought us to a halt, and however much I
wanted to clear this wall, I had to stop. Here ended the domains of Captain Nemo.  He had no
desire to pass beyond them.  Farther on lay a part of the globe he would no longer tread underfoot.

Our return journey began.  Captain Nemo resumed the lead in our little band, always heading
forward without hesitation. I noted that we didn't follow the same path in returning to the
Nautilus.  This new route, very steep and hence very arduous, quickly took us close to the
surface of the sea.  But this return to the upper strata wasn't so sudden that decompression
took place too quickly, which could have led to serious organic disorders and given us those
internal injuries so fatal to divers. With great promptness, the light reappeared and grew
stronger; and the refraction of the sun, already low on the horizon, again ringed the edges
of various objects with the entire color spectrum.

At a depth of ten meters, we walked amid a swarm of small fish from every species, more numerous
than birds in the air, more agile too; but no aquatic game worthy of a gunshot had yet been
offered to our eyes.

Just then I saw the captain's weapon spring to his shoulder and track a moving object through
the bushes.  A shot went off, I heard a faint hissing, and an animal dropped a few paces away,
literally struck by lightning.

It was a magnificent sea otter from the genus Enhydra, the only exclusively marine quadruped.
One and a half meters long, this otter had to be worth a good high price.  Its coat, chestnut
brown above and silver below, would have made one of those wonderful fur pieces so much in
demand in the Russian and Chinese markets; the fineness and luster of its pelt guaranteed that
it would go for at least 2,000 francs. Hunted and trapped by fishermen, this valuable carnivore
has become extremely rare, and it takes refuge chiefly in the northernmost parts of the Pacific,
where in all likelihood its species will soon be facing extinction.

Captain Nemo's companion picked up the animal, loaded it on his shoulder, and we took to the
trail again.

For an hour plains of sand unrolled before our steps. Often the seafloor rose to within two
meters of the surface of the water. I could then see our images clearly mirrored on the underside
of the waves, but reflected upside down:  above us there appeared an identical band that duplicated
our every movement and gesture; in short, a perfect likeness of the quartet near which it walked,
but with heads down and feet in the air.

Another unusual effect.  Heavy clouds passed above us, forming and fading swiftly.  But after
thinking it over, I realized that these so-called clouds were caused simply by the changing
densities of the long ground swells, and I even spotted the foaming "white caps" that their
breaking crests were proliferating over the surface of the water.  Lastly, I couldn't help
seeing the actual shadows of large birds passing over our heads, swiftly skimming the surface
of the sea.

On this occasion I witnessed one of the finest gunshots ever to thrill the marrow of a hunter.
A large bird with a wide wingspan, quite clearly visible, approached and hovered over us. 
When it was just a few meters above the waves, Captain Nemo's companion took aim and fired.
The animal dropped, electrocuted, and its descent brought it within reach of our adroit hunter,
who promptly took possession of it. It was an albatross of the finest species, a wonderful
specimen of these open-sea fowl.

This incident did not interrupt our walk.  For two hours we were sometimes led over plains
of sand, sometimes over prairies of seaweed that were quite arduous to cross.  In all honesty,
I was dead tired by the time I spotted a hazy glow half a mile away, cutting through the darkness
of the waters.  It was the Nautilus's beacon. Within twenty minutes we would be on board, and
there I could breathe easy again--because my tank's current air supply seemed to be quite low
in oxygen.  But I was reckoning without an encounter that slightly delayed our arrival.

I was lagging behind some twenty paces when I saw Captain Nemo suddenly come back toward me.
With his powerful hands he sent me buckling to the ground, while his companion did the same
to Conseil.  At first I didn't know what to make of this sudden assault, but I was reassured
to observe the captain lying motionless beside me.

I was stretched out on the seafloor directly beneath some bushes of algae, when I raised my
head and spied two enormous masses hurtling by, throwing off phosphorescent glimmers.

My blood turned cold in my veins!  I saw that we were under threat from a fearsome pair of
sharks.  They were blue sharks, dreadful man-eaters with enormous tails, dull, glassy stares,
and phosphorescent matter oozing from holes around their snouts.  They were like monstrous
fireflies that could thoroughly pulverize a man in their iron jaws! I don't know if Conseil
was busy with their classification, but as for me, I looked at their silver bellies, their
fearsome mouths bristling with teeth, from a viewpoint less than scientific-- more as a victim
than as a professor of natural history.

Luckily these voracious animals have poor eyesight.  They went by without noticing us, grazing
us with their brownish fins; and miraculously, we escaped a danger greater than encountering
a tiger deep in the jungle.  Then he pressed a button. I heard pumps operating within the ship,
I felt the water lowering around me, and in a few moments the cell was completely empty. The
inside door opened, and we passed into the wardrobe.

There our diving suits were removed, not without difficulty; and utterly exhausted, faint from
lack of food and rest, I repaired to my stateroom, full of wonder at this startling excursion
on the bottom of the sea.

CHAPTER 18

Four Thousand Leagues Under the Pacific

BY THE NEXT MORNING, November 18, I was fully recovered from my exhaustion of the day before,
and I climbed onto the platform just as the Nautilus's chief officer was pronouncing his daily
phrase. It then occurred to me that these words either referred to the state of the sea, or
that they meant:  "There's nothing in sight."

And in truth, the ocean was deserted.  Not a sail on the horizon. The tips of Crespo Island
had disappeared during the night. The sea, absorbing every color of the prism except its blue
rays, reflected the latter in every direction and sported a wonderful indigo tint.  The undulating
waves regularly took on the appearance of watered silk with wide stripes.

I was marveling at this magnificent ocean view when Captain Nemo appeared.  He didn't seem
to notice my presence and began a series of astronomical observations.  Then, his operations
finished, he went and leaned his elbows on the beacon housing, his eyes straying over the surface
of the ocean.

Meanwhile some twenty of the Nautilus's sailors--all energetic, well-built fellows--climbed
onto the platform.  They had come to pull up the nets left in our wake during the night. These
seamen obviously belonged to different nationalities, although indications of European physical
traits could be seen in them all. If I'm not mistaken, I recognized some Irishmen, some Frenchmen,
a few Slavs, and a native of either Greece or Crete.  Even so, these men were frugal of speech
and used among themselves only that bizarre dialect whose origin I couldn't even guess. So
I had to give up any notions of questioning them.

The nets were hauled on board.  They were a breed of trawl resembling those used off the Normandy
coast, huge pouches held half open by a floating pole and a chain laced through the lower meshes.
Trailing in this way from these iron glove makers, the resulting receptacles scoured the ocean
floor and collected every marine exhibit in their path.  That day they gathered up some unusual
specimens from these fish-filled waterways:  anglerfish whose comical movements qualify them
for the epithet "clowns," black Commerson anglers equipped with their antennas, undulating
triggerfish encircled by little red bands, bloated puffers whose venom is extremely insidious,
some olive-hued lampreys, snipefish covered with silver scales, cutlass fish whose electrocuting
power equals that of the electric eel and the electric ray, scaly featherbacks with brown crosswise
bands, greenish codfish, several varieties of goby, etc.; finally, some fish of larger proportions:
a one-meter jack with a prominent head, several fine bonito from the genus Scomber decked out
in the colors blue and silver, and three magnificent tuna whose high speeds couldn't save them
from our trawl.

I estimate that this cast of the net brought in more than 1,000 pounds of fish.  It was a fine
catch but not surprising. In essence, these nets stayed in our wake for several hours, incarcerating
an entire aquatic world in prisons made of thread. So we were never lacking in provisions of
the highest quality, which the Nautilus's speed and the allure of its electric light could
continually replenish.

These various exhibits from the sea were immediately lowered down the hatch in the direction
of the storage lockers, some to be eaten fresh, others to be preserved.

After its fishing was finished and its air supply renewed, I thought the Nautilus would resume
its underwater excursion, and I was getting ready to return to my stateroom, when Captain Nemo
turned to me and said without further preamble:

"Look at this ocean, professor!  Doesn't it have the actual gift of life?  Doesn't it experience
both anger and affection? Last evening it went to sleep just as we did, and there it is, waking
up after a peaceful night!"

No hellos or good mornings for this gent!  You would have thought this eccentric individual
was simply continuing a conversation we'd already started!

"See!" he went on.  "It's waking up under the sun's caresses! It's going to relive its daily
existence!  What a fascinating field of study lies in watching the play of its organism. It
owns a pulse and arteries, it has spasms, and I side with the scholarly Commander Maury, who
discovered that it has a circulation as real as the circulation of blood in animals."

I'm sure that Captain Nemo expected no replies from me, and it seemed pointless to pitch in
with "Ah yes," "Exactly," or "How right you are!"  Rather, he was simply talking to himself,
with long pauses between sentences.  He was meditating out loud.

"Yes," he said, "the ocean owns a genuine circulation, and to start it going, the Creator of
All Things has only to increase its heat, salt, and microscopic animal life. In essence, heat
creates the different densities that lead to currents and countercurrents.  Evaporation, which
is nil in the High Arctic regions and very active in equatorial zones, brings about a constant
interchange of tropical and polar waters. What's more, I've detected those falling and rising
currents that make up the ocean's true breathing.  I've seen a molecule of salt water heat
up at the surface, sink into the depths, reach maximum density at -2 degrees centigrade, then
cool off, grow lighter, and rise again. At the poles you'll see the consequences of this phenomenon,
and through this law of farseeing nature, you'll understand why water can freeze only at the
surface!"

As the captain was finishing his sentence, I said to myself: "The pole!  Is this brazen individual
claiming he'll take us even to that location?"

Meanwhile the captain fell silent and stared at the element he had studied so thoroughly and
unceasingly.  Then, going on:

"Salts," he said, "fill the sea in considerable quantities, professor, and if you removed all
its dissolved saline content, you'd create a mass measuring 4,500,000 cubic leagues, which
if it were spread all over the globe, would form a layer more than ten meters high. And don't
think that the presence of these salts is due merely to some whim of nature.  No. They make
ocean water less open to evaporation and prevent winds from carrying off excessive amounts
of steam, which, when condensing, would submerge the temperate zones. Salts play a leading
role, the role of stabilizer for the general ecology of the globe!"

Captain Nemo stopped, straightened up, took a few steps along the platform, and returned to me:

"As for those billions of tiny animals," he went on, "those infusoria that live by the millions
in one droplet of water, 800,000 of which are needed to weigh one milligram, their role is
no less important. They absorb the marine salts, they assimilate the solid elements in the
water, and since they create coral and madrepores, they're the true builders of limestone continents!
And so, after they've finished depriving our water drop of its mineral nutrients, the droplet
gets lighter, rises to the surface, there absorbs more salts left behind through evaporation,
gets heavier, sinks again, and brings those tiny animals new elements to absorb.  The outcome:
a double current, rising and falling, constant movement, constant life! More intense than on
land, more abundant, more infinite, such life blooms in every part of this ocean, an element
fatal to man, they say, but vital to myriads of animals--and to me!"

When Captain Nemo spoke in this way, he was transfigured, and he filled me with extraordinary
excitement.

"There," he added, "out there lies true existence!  And I can imagine the founding of nautical
towns, clusters of underwater households that, like the Nautilus, would return to the surface
of the sea to breathe each morning, free towns if ever there were, independent cities! Then
again, who knows whether some tyrant . . ."

Captain Nemo finished his sentence with a vehement gesture. Then, addressing me directly, as
if to drive away an ugly thought:

"Professor Aronnax," he asked me, "do you know the depth of the ocean floor?"

"At least, captain, I know what the major soundings tell us."

"Could you quote them to me, so I can double-check them as the need arises?"

"Here," I replied, "are a few of them that stick in my memory. If I'm not mistaken, an average
depth of 8,200 meters was found in the north Atlantic, and 2,500 meters in the Mediterranean.
The most remarkable soundings were taken in the south Atlantic near the 35th parallel, and
they gave 12,000 meters, 14,091 meters, and 15,149 meters. All in all, it's estimated that
if the sea bottom were made level, its average depth would be about seven kilometers."

"Well, professor," Captain Nemo replied, "we'll show you better than that, I hope.  As for
the average depth of this part of the Pacific, I'll inform you that it's a mere 4,000 meters."

This said, Captain Nemo headed to the hatch and disappeared down the ladder.  I followed him
and went back to the main lounge. The propeller was instantly set in motion, and the log gave
our speed as twenty miles per hour.

Over the ensuing days and weeks, Captain Nemo was very frugal with his visits.  I saw him only
at rare intervals.  His chief officer regularly fixed the positions I found reported on the
chart, and in such a way that I could exactly plot the Nautilus's course.

Conseil and Land spent the long hours with me.  Conseil had told his friend about the wonders
of our undersea stroll, and the Canadian was sorry he hadn't gone along.  But I hoped an opportunity
would arise for a visit to the forests of Oceania.

Almost every day the panels in the lounge were open for some hours, and our eyes never tired
of probing the mysteries of the underwater world.

The Nautilus's general heading was southeast, and it stayed at a depth between 100 and 150
meters.  However, from lord-knows-what whim, one day it did a diagonal dive by means of its
slanting fins, reaching strata located 2,000 meters underwater.  The thermometer indicated
a temperature of 4.25 degrees centigrade, which at this depth seemed to be a temperature common
to all latitudes.

On November 26, at three o'clock in the morning, the Nautilus cleared the Tropic of Cancer
at longitude 172 degrees.  On the 27th it passed in sight of the Hawaiian Islands, where the
famous Captain Cook met his death on February 14, 1779.  By then we had fared 4,860 leagues
from our starting point.  When I arrived on the platform that morning, I saw the Island of
Hawaii two miles to leeward, the largest of the seven islands making up this group. I could
clearly distinguish the tilled soil on its outskirts, the various mountain chains running parallel
with its coastline, and its volcanoes, crowned by Mauna Kea, whose elevation is 5,000 meters
above sea level.  Among other specimens from these waterways, our nets brought up some peacock-tailed
flabellarian coral, polyps flattened into stylish shapes and unique to this part of the ocean.

The Nautilus kept to its southeasterly heading.  On December 1 it cut the equator at longitude
142 degrees, and on the 4th of the same month, after a quick crossing marked by no incident,
we raised the Marquesas Islands.  Three miles off, in latitude 8 degrees 57' south and longitude
139 degrees 32' west, I spotted Martin Point on Nuku Hiva, chief member of this island group
that belongs to France.  I could make out only its wooded mountains on the horizon, because
Captain Nemo hated to hug shore. There our nets brought up some fine fish samples:  dolphinfish
with azure fins, gold tails, and flesh that's unrivaled in the entire world, wrasse from the
genus Hologymnosus that were nearly denuded of scales but exquisite in flavor, knifejaws with
bony beaks, yellowish albacore that were as tasty as bonito, all fish worth classifying in
the ship's pantry.

After leaving these delightful islands to the protection of the French flag, the Nautilus covered
about 2,000 miles from December 4 to the 11th. Its navigating was marked by an encounter with
an immense school of squid, unusual mollusks that are near neighbors of the cuttlefish. French
fishermen give them the name "cuckoldfish," and they belong to the class Cephalopoda, family
Dibranchiata, consisting of themselves together with cuttlefish and argonauts. The naturalists
of antiquity made a special study of them, and these animals furnished many ribald figures
of speech for soapbox orators in the Greek marketplace, as well as excellent dishes for the
tables of rich citizens, if we're to believe Athenaeus, a Greek physician predating Galen.

It was during the night of December 9-10 that the Nautilus encountered this army of distinctly
nocturnal mollusks.  They numbered in the millions.  They were migrating from the temperate
zones toward zones still warmer, following the itineraries of herring and sardines. We stared
at them through our thick glass windows:  they swam backward with tremendous speed, moving
by means of their locomotive tubes, chasing fish and mollusks, eating the little ones, eaten
by the big ones, and tossing in indescribable confusion the ten feet that nature has rooted
in their heads like a hairpiece of pneumatic snakes. Despite its speed, the Nautilus navigated
for several hours in the midst of this school of animals, and its nets brought up an incalculable
number, among which I recognized all nine species that Professor Orbigny has classified as
native to the Pacific Ocean.

During this crossing, the sea continually lavished us with the most marvelous sights.  Its
variety was infinite. It changed its setting and decor for the mere pleasure of our eyes, and
we were called upon not simply to contemplate the works of our Creator in the midst of the
liquid element, but also to probe the ocean's most daunting mysteries.

During the day of December 11, I was busy reading in the main lounge. Ned Land and Conseil
were observing the luminous waters through the gaping panels.  The Nautilus was motionless.
Its ballast tanks full, it was sitting at a depth of 1,000 meters in a comparatively unpopulated
region of the ocean where only larger fish put in occasional appearances.

Just then I was studying a delightful book by Jean Macé, The Servants of the Stomach, and savoring
its ingenious teachings, when Conseil interrupted my reading.

"Would master kindly come here for an instant?" he said to me in an odd voice.

"What is it, Conseil?"

"It's something that master should see."

I stood up, went, leaned on my elbows before the window, and I saw it.

In the broad electric daylight, an enormous black mass, quite motionless, hung suspended in
the midst of the waters.

"A ship!"  I exclaimed.

"Yes," the Canadian replied, "a disabled craft that's sinking straight down!"

Ned Land was not mistaken.  We were in the presence of a ship whose severed shrouds still hung
from their clasps.  Its hull looked in good condition, and it must have gone under only a few
hours before. The stumps of three masts, chopped off two feet above the deck, indicated a flooding
ship that had been forced to sacrifice its masting. But it had heeled sideways, filling completely,
and it was listing to port even yet.  A sorry sight, this carcass lost under the waves, but
sorrier still was the sight on its deck, where, lashed with ropes to prevent their being washed
overboard, some human corpses still lay! I counted four of them--four men, one still standing
at the helm-- then a woman, halfway out of a skylight on the afterdeck, holding a child in
her arms.  This woman was young. Under the brilliant lighting of the Nautilus's rays, I could
make out her features, which the water hadn't yet decomposed. With a supreme effort, she had
lifted her child above her head, and the poor little creature's arms were still twined around
its mother's neck!  The postures of the four seamen seemed ghastly to me, twisted from convulsive
movements, as if making a last effort to break loose from the ropes that bound them to their
ship. And the helmsman, standing alone, calmer, his face smooth and serious, his grizzled hair
plastered to his brow, his hands clutching the wheel, seemed even yet to be guiding his wrecked
three-master through the ocean depths!

What a scene!  We stood dumbstruck, hearts pounding, before this shipwreck caught in the act,
as if it had been photographed in its final moments, so to speak!  And already I could see
enormous sharks moving in, eyes ablaze, drawn by the lure of human flesh!

Meanwhile, turning, the Nautilus made a circle around the sinking ship, and for an instant
I could read the board on its stern:

The Florida

Sunderland, England

CHAPTER 19

Vanikoro

THIS DREADFUL SIGHT was the first of a whole series of maritime catastrophes that the Nautilus
would encounter on its run. When it plied more heavily traveled seas, we often saw wrecked
hulls rotting in midwater, and farther down, cannons, shells, anchors, chains, and a thousand
other iron objects rusting away.

Meanwhile, continuously swept along by the Nautilus, where we lived in near isolation, we raised
the Tuamotu Islands on December 11, that old "dangerous group" associated with the French global
navigator Commander Bougainville; it stretches from Ducie Island to Lazareff Island over an
area of 500 leagues from the east-southeast to the west-northwest, between latitude 13 degrees
30' and 23 degrees 50' south, and between longitude 125 degrees 30' and 151 degrees 30' west.
This island group covers a surface area of 370 square leagues, and it's made up of some sixty
subgroups, among which we noted the Gambier group, which is a French protectorate. These islands
are coral formations.  Thanks to the work of polyps, a slow but steady upheaval will someday
connect these islands to each other. Later on, this new island will be fused to its neighboring
island groups, and a fifth continent will stretch from New Zealand and New Caledonia as far
as the Marquesas Islands.

The day I expounded this theory to Captain Nemo, he answered me coldly:

"The earth doesn't need new continents, but new men!"

Sailors' luck led the Nautilus straight to Reao Island, one of the most unusual in this group,
which was discovered in 1822 by Captain Bell aboard the Minerva.  So I was able to study the
madreporic process that has created the islands in this ocean.

Madrepores, which one must guard against confusing with precious coral, clothe their tissue
in a limestone crust, and their variations in structure have led my famous mentor Professor
Milne-Edwards to classify them into five divisions.  The tiny microscopic animals that secrete
this polypary live by the billions in the depths of their cells. Their limestone deposits build
up into rocks, reefs, islets, islands. In some places, they form atolls, a circular ring surrounding
a lagoon or small inner lake that gaps place in contact with the sea.  Elsewhere, they take
the shape of barrier reefs, such as those that exist along the coasts of New Caledonia and
several of the Tuamotu Islands.  In still other localities, such as Réunion Island and the
island of Mauritius, they build fringing reefs, high, straight walls next to which the ocean's
depth is considerable.

While cruising along only a few cable lengths from the underpinning of Reao Island, I marveled
at the gigantic piece of work accomplished by these microscopic laborers.  These walls were
the express achievements of madrepores known by the names fire coral, finger coral, star coral,
and stony coral.  These polyps grow exclusively in the agitated strata at the surface of the
sea, and so it's in the upper reaches that they begin these substructures, which sink little
by little together with the secreted rubble binding them.  This, at least, is the theory of
Mr. Charles Darwin, who thus explains the formation of atolls--a theory superior, in my view,
to the one that says these madreporic edifices sit on the summits of mountains or volcanoes
submerged a few feet below sea level.

I could observe these strange walls quite closely:  our sounding lines indicated that they
dropped perpendicularly for more than 300 meters, and our electric beams made the bright limestone
positively sparkle.

In reply to a question Conseil asked me about the growth rate of these colossal barriers, I
thoroughly amazed him by saying that scientists put it at an eighth of an inch per biennium.

"Therefore," he said to me, "to build these walls, it took . . . ?"

"192,000 years, my gallant Conseil, which significantly extends the biblical Days of Creation.
What's more, the formation of coal-- in other words, the petrification of forests swallowed
by floods-- and the cooling of basaltic rocks likewise call for a much longer period of time.
I might add that those 'days' in the Bible must represent whole epochs and not literally the
lapse of time between two sunrises, because according to the Bible itself, the sun doesn't
date from the first day of Creation."

When the Nautilus returned to the surface of the ocean, I could take in Reao Island over its
whole flat, wooded expanse.  Obviously its madreporic rocks had been made fertile by tornadoes
and thunderstorms. One day, carried off by a hurricane from neighboring shores, some seed fell
onto these limestone beds, mixing with decomposed particles of fish and marine plants to form
vegetable humus. Propelled by the waves, a coconut arrived on this new coast. Its germ took
root.  Its tree grew tall, catching steam off the water. A brook was born.  Little by little,
vegetation spread. Tiny animals--worms, insects--rode ashore on tree trunks snatched from islands
to windward.  Turtles came to lay their eggs. Birds nested in the young trees.  In this way
animal life developed, and drawn by the greenery and fertile soil, man appeared. And that's
how these islands were formed, the immense achievement of microscopic animals.

Near evening Reao Island melted into the distance, and the Nautilus noticeably changed course.
After touching the Tropic of Capricorn at longitude 135 degrees, it headed west-northwest,
going back up the whole intertropical zone.  Although the summer sun lavished its rays on us,
we never suffered from the heat, because thirty or forty meters underwater, the temperature
didn't go over 10 degrees to 12 degrees centigrade.

By December 15 we had left the alluring Society Islands in the west, likewise elegant Tahiti,
queen of the Pacific.  In the morning I spotted this island's lofty summits a few miles to
leeward. Its waters supplied excellent fish for the tables on board: mackerel, bonito, albacore,
and a few varieties of that sea serpent named the moray eel.

The Nautilus had cleared 8,100 miles.  We logged 9,720 miles when we passed between the Tonga
Islands, where crews from the Argo, Port-au-Prince, and Duke of Portland had perished, and
the island group of Samoa, scene of the slaying of Captain de Langle, friend of that long-lost
navigator, the Count de La Pérouse. Then we raised the Fiji Islands, where savages slaughtered
sailors from the Union, as well as Captain Bureau, commander of the Darling Josephine out of
Nantes, France.

Extending over an expanse of 100 leagues north to south, and over 90 leagues east to west,
this island group lies between latitude 2 degrees and 6 degrees south, and between longitude
174 degrees and 179 degrees west.  It consists of a number of islands, islets, and reefs, among
which we noted the islands of Viti Levu, Vanua Levu, and Kadavu.

It was the Dutch navigator Tasman who discovered this group in 1643, the same year the Italian
physicist Torricelli invented the barometer and King Louis XIV ascended the French throne.
I'll let the reader decide which of these deeds was more beneficial to humanity. Coming later,
Captain Cook in 1774, Rear Admiral d'Entrecasteaux in 1793, and finally Captain Dumont d'Urville
in 1827, untangled the whole chaotic geography of this island group.  The Nautilus drew near
Wailea Bay, an unlucky place for England's Captain Dillon, who was the first to shed light
on the longstanding mystery surrounding the disappearance of ships under the Count de La Pérouse.

This bay, repeatedly dredged, furnished a huge supply of excellent oysters.  As the Roman playwright
Seneca recommended, we opened them right at our table, then stuffed ourselves. These mollusks
belonged to the species known by name as Ostrea lamellosa, whose members are quite common off
Corsica.  This Wailea oysterbank must have been extensive, and for certain, if they hadn't
been controlled by numerous natural checks, these clusters of shellfish would have ended up
jam-packing the bay, since as many as 2,000,000 eggs have been counted in a single individual.

And if Mr. Ned Land did not repent of his gluttony at our oyster fest, it's because oysters
are the only dish that never causes indigestion. In fact, it takes no less than sixteen dozen
of these headless mollusks to supply the 315 grams that satisfy one man's minimum daily requirement
for nitrogen.

On December 25 the Nautilus navigated amid the island group of the New Hebrides, which the
Portuguese seafarer Queirós discovered in 1606, which Commander Bougainville explored in 1768,
and to which Captain Cook gave its current name in 1773. This group is chiefly made up of nine
large islands and forms a 120-league strip from the north-northwest to the south-southeast,
lying between latitude 2 degrees and 15 degrees south, and between longitude 164 degrees and
168 degrees. At the moment of our noon sights, we passed fairly close to the island of Aurou,
which looked to me like a mass of green woods crowned by a peak of great height.

That day it was yuletide, and it struck me that Ned Land badly missed celebrating "Christmas,"
that genuine family holiday where Protestants are such zealots.

I hadn't seen Captain Nemo for over a week, when, on the morning of the 27th, he entered the
main lounge, as usual acting as if he'd been gone for just five minutes.  I was busy tracing
the Nautilus's course on the world map.  The captain approached, placed a finger over a position
on the chart, and pronounced just one word:

"Vanikoro."

This name was magic!  It was the name of those islets where vessels under the Count de La Pérouse
had miscarried. I straightened suddenly.

"The Nautilus is bringing us to Vanikoro?"  I asked.

"Yes, professor," the captain replied.

"And I'll be able to visit those famous islands where the Compass and the Astrolabe came to grief?"

"If you like, professor."

"When will we reach Vanikoro?"

"We already have, professor."

Followed by Captain Nemo, I climbed onto the platform, and from there my eyes eagerly scanned
the horizon.

In the northeast there emerged two volcanic islands of unequal size, surrounded by a coral
reef whose circuit measured forty miles. We were facing the island of Vanikoro proper, to which
Captain Dumont d'Urville had given the name "Island of the Search"; we lay right in front of
the little harbor of Vana, located in latitude 16 degrees 4' south and longitude 164 degrees
32' east.  Its shores seemed covered with greenery from its beaches to its summits inland,
crowned by Mt.  Kapogo, which is 476 fathoms high.

After clearing the outer belt of rocks via a narrow passageway, the Nautilus lay inside the
breakers where the sea had a depth of thirty to forty fathoms.  Under the green shade of some
tropical evergreens, I spotted a few savages who looked extremely startled at our approach.
In this long, blackish object advancing flush with the water, didn't they see some fearsome
cetacean that they were obliged to view with distrust?

Just then Captain Nemo asked me what I knew about the shipwreck of the Count de La Pérouse.

"What everybody knows, captain," I answered him.

"And could you kindly tell me what everybody knows?" he asked me in a gently ironic tone.

"Very easily."

I related to him what the final deeds of Captain Dumont d'Urville had brought to light, deeds
described here in this heavily condensed summary of the whole matter.

In 1785 the Count de La Pérouse and his subordinate, Captain de Langle, were sent by King Louis
XVI of France on a voyage to circumnavigate the globe.  They boarded two sloops of war, the
Compass and the Astrolabe, which were never seen again.

In 1791, justly concerned about the fate of these two sloops of war, the French government
fitted out two large cargo boats, the Search and the Hope, which left Brest on September 28
under orders from Rear Admiral Bruni d'Entrecasteaux. Two months later, testimony from a certain
Commander Bowen, aboard the Albemarle, alleged that rubble from shipwrecked vessels had been
seen on the coast of New Georgia.  But d'Entrecasteaux was unaware of this news--which seemed
a bit dubious anyhow--and headed toward the Admiralty Islands, which had been named in a report
by one Captain Hunter as the site of the Count de La Pérouse's shipwreck.

They looked in vain.  The Hope and the Search passed right by Vanikoro without stopping there;
and overall, this voyage was plagued by misfortune, ultimately costing the lives of Rear Admiral
d'Entrecasteaux, two of his subordinate officers, and several seamen from his crew.

It was an old hand at the Pacific, the English adventurer Captain Peter Dillon, who was the
first to pick up the trail left by castaways from the wrecked vessels.  On May 15, 1824, his
ship, the St. Patrick, passed by Tikopia Island, one of the New Hebrides. There a native boatman
pulled alongside in a dugout canoe and sold Dillon a silver sword hilt bearing the imprint
of characters engraved with a cutting tool known as a burin.  Furthermore, this native boatman
claimed that during a stay in Vanikoro six years earlier, he had seen two Europeans belonging
to ships that had run aground on the island's reefs many years before.

Dillon guessed that the ships at issue were those under the Count de La Pérouse, ships whose
disappearance had shaken the entire world. He tried to reach Vanikoro, where, according to
the native boatman, a good deal of rubble from the shipwreck could still be found, but winds
and currents prevented his doing so.

Dillon returned to Calcutta.  There he was able to interest the Asiatic Society and the East
India Company in his discovery. A ship named after the Search was placed at his disposal, and
he departed on January 23, 1827, accompanied by a French deputy.

This new Search, after putting in at several stops over the Pacific, dropped anchor before
Vanikoro on July 7, 1827, in the same harbor of Vana where the Nautilus was currently floating.

There Dillon collected many relics of the shipwreck: iron utensils, anchors, eyelets from pulleys,
swivel guns, an eighteen-pound shell, the remains of some astronomical instruments, a piece
of sternrail, and a bronze bell bearing the inscription "Made by Bazin," the foundry mark at
Brest Arsenal around 1785. There could no longer be any doubt.

Finishing his investigations, Dillon stayed at the site of the casualty until the month of
October.  Then he left Vanikoro, headed toward New Zealand, dropped anchor at Calcutta on April
7, 1828, and returned to France, where he received a very cordial welcome from King Charles X.

But just then the renowned French explorer Captain Dumont d'Urville, unaware of Dillon's activities,
had already set sail to search elsewhere for the site of the shipwreck.

So Captain Dumont d'Urville had put to sea in command of a vessel named after the Astrolabe,
and just two months after Dillon had left Vanikoro, Dumont d'Urville dropped anchor before
Hobart.  There he heard about Dillon's findings, and he further learned that a certain James
Hobbs, chief officer on the Union out of Calcutta, had put to shore on an island located in
latitude 8 degrees 18' south and longitude 156 degrees 30' east, and had noted the natives
of those waterways making use of iron bars and red fabrics.

Pretty perplexed, Dumont d'Urville didn't know if he should give credence to these reports,
which had been carried in some of the less reliable newspapers; nevertheless, he decided to
start on Dillon's trail.

On February 10, 1828, the new Astrolabe hove before Tikopia Island, took on a guide and interpreter
in the person of a deserter who had settled there, plied a course toward Vanikoro, raised it
on February 12, sailed along its reefs until the 14th, and only on the 20th dropped anchor
inside its barrier in the harbor of Vana.

On the 23rd, several officers circled the island and brought back some rubble of little importance.
The natives, adopting a system of denial and evasion, refused to guide them to the site of
the casualty. This rather shady conduct aroused the suspicion that the natives had mistreated
the castaways; and in truth, the natives seemed afraid that Dumont d'Urville had come to avenge
the Count de La Pérouse and his unfortunate companions.

But on the 26th, appeased with gifts and seeing that they didn't need to fear any reprisals,
the natives led the chief officer, Mr. Jacquinot, to the site of the shipwreck.

At this location, in three or four fathoms of water between the Paeu and Vana reefs, there
lay some anchors, cannons, and ingots of iron and lead, all caked with limestone concretions.
A launch and whaleboat from the new Astrolabe were steered to this locality, and after going
to exhausting lengths, their crews managed to dredge up an anchor weighing 1,800 pounds, a
cast-iron eight-pounder cannon, a lead ingot, and two copper swivel guns.

Questioning the natives, Captain Dumont d'Urville also learned that after La Pérouse's two
ships had miscarried on the island's reefs, the count had built a smaller craft, only to go
off and miscarry a second time.  Where?  Nobody knew.

The commander of the new Astrolabe then had a monument erected under a tuft of mangrove, in
memory of the famous navigator and his companions. It was a simple quadrangular pyramid, set
on a coral base, with no ironwork to tempt the natives' avarice.

Then Dumont d'Urville tried to depart; but his crews were run down from the fevers raging on
these unsanitary shores, and quite ill himself, he was unable to weigh anchor until March 17.

Meanwhile, fearing that Dumont d'Urville wasn't abreast of Dillon's activities, the French
government sent a sloop of war to Vanikoro, the Bayonnaise under Commander Legoarant de Tromelin,
who had been stationed on the American west coast.  Dropping anchor before Vanikoro a few months
after the new Astrolabe's departure, the Bayonnaise didn't find any additional evidence but
verified that the savages hadn't disturbed the memorial honoring the Count de La Pérouse.

This is the substance of the account I gave Captain Nemo.

"So," he said to me, "the castaways built a third ship on Vanikoro Island, and to this day,
nobody knows where it went and perished?"

"Nobody knows."

Captain Nemo didn't reply but signaled me to follow him to the main lounge.  The Nautilus sank
a few meters beneath the waves, and the panels opened.

I rushed to the window and saw crusts of coral:  fungus coral, siphonula coral, alcyon coral,
sea anemone from the genus Caryophylia, plus myriads of charming fish including greenfish,
damselfish, sweepers, snappers, and squirrelfish; underneath this coral covering I detected
some rubble the old dredges hadn't been able to tear free-- iron stirrups, anchors, cannons,
shells, tackle from a capstan, a stempost, all objects hailing from the wrecked ships and now
carpeted in moving flowers.

And as I stared at this desolate wreckage, Captain Nemo told me in a solemn voice:

"Commander La Pérouse set out on December 7, 1785, with his ships, the Compass and the Astrolabe.
He dropped anchor first at Botany Bay, visited the Tonga Islands and New Caledonia, headed
toward the Santa Cruz Islands, and put in at Nomuka, one of the islands in the Ha'apai group.
Then his ships arrived at the unknown reefs of Vanikoro.  Traveling in the lead, the Compass
ran afoul of breakers on the southerly coast.  The Astrolabe went to its rescue and also ran
aground.  The first ship was destroyed almost immediately. The second, stranded to leeward,
held up for some days. The natives gave the castaways a fair enough welcome. The latter took
up residence on the island and built a smaller craft with rubble from the two large ones. 
A few seamen stayed voluntarily in Vanikoro.  The others, weak and ailing, set sail with the
Count de La Pérouse. They headed to the Solomon Islands, and they perished with all hands on
the westerly coast of the chief island in that group, between Cape Deception and Cape Satisfaction!"

"And how do you know all this?"  I exclaimed.

"Here's what I found at the very site of that final shipwreck!"

Captain Nemo showed me a tin box, stamped with the coat of arms of France and all corroded
by salt water.  He opened it and I saw a bundle of papers, yellowed but still legible.

They were the actual military orders given by France's Minister of the Navy to Commander La
Pérouse, with notes along the margin in the handwriting of King Louis XVI!

"Ah, what a splendid death for a seaman!"  Captain Nemo then said. "A coral grave is a tranquil
grave, and may Heaven grant that my companions and I rest in no other!"

CHAPTER 20

The Torres Strait

DURING THE NIGHT of December 27-28, the Nautilus left the waterways of Vanikoro behind with
extraordinary speed. Its heading was southwesterly, and in three days it had cleared the 750
leagues that separated La Pérouse's islands from the southeastern tip of Papua.

On January 1, 1868, bright and early, Conseil joined me on the platform.

"Will master," the gallant lad said to me, "allow me to wish him a happy new year?"

"Good heavens, Conseil, it's just like old times in my office at the Botanical Gardens in Paris!
I accept your kind wishes and I thank you for them.  Only, I'd like to know what you mean by
a 'happy year' under the circumstances in which we're placed. Is it a year that will bring
our imprisonment to an end, or a year that will see this strange voyage continue?"

"Ye gods," Conseil replied, "I hardly know what to tell master. We're certainly seeing some
unusual things, and for two months we've had no time for boredom.  The latest wonder is always
the most astonishing, and if this progression keeps up, I can't imagine what its climax will
be.  In my opinion, we'll never again have such an opportunity."

"Never, Conseil."

"Besides, Mr. Nemo really lives up to his Latin name, since he couldn't be less in the way
if he didn't exist."

"True enough, Conseil."

"Therefore, with all due respect to master, I think a 'happy year' would be a year that lets
us see everything--"

"Everything, Conseil?  No year could be that long.  But what does Ned Land think about all this?"

"Ned Land's thoughts are exactly the opposite of mine," Conseil replied.  "He has a practical
mind and a demanding stomach. He's tired of staring at fish and eating them day in and day
out. This shortage of wine, bread, and meat isn't suitable for an upstanding Anglo-Saxon, a
man accustomed to beefsteak and unfazed by regular doses of brandy or gin!"

"For my part, Conseil, that doesn't bother me in the least, and I've adjusted very nicely to
the diet on board."

"So have I," Conseil replied.  "Accordingly, I think as much about staying as Mr. Land about
making his escape.  Thus, if this new year isn't a happy one for me, it will be for him, and
vice versa. No matter what happens, one of us will be pleased.  So, in conclusion, I wish master
to have whatever his heart desires."

"Thank you, Conseil.  Only I must ask you to postpone the question of new year's gifts, and
temporarily accept a hearty handshake in their place. That's all I have on me."

"Master has never been more generous," Conseil replied.

And with that, the gallant lad went away.

By January 2 we had fared 11,340 miles, hence 5,250 leagues, from our starting point in the
seas of Japan.  Before the Nautilus's spur there stretched the dangerous waterways of the Coral
Sea, off the northeast coast of Australia.  Our boat cruised along a few miles away from that
daunting shoal where Captain Cook's ships wellnigh miscarried on June 10, 1770.  The craft
that Cook was aboard charged into some coral rock, and if his vessel didn't go down, it was
thanks to the circumstance that a piece of coral broke off in the collision and plugged the
very hole it had made in the hull.

I would have been deeply interested in visiting this long, 360-league reef, against which the
ever-surging sea broke with the fearsome intensity of thunderclaps.  But just then the Nautilus's
slanting fins took us to great depths, and I could see nothing of those high coral walls. 
I had to rest content with the various specimens of fish brought up by our nets. Among others
I noted some long-finned albacore, a species in the genus Scomber, as big as tuna, bluish on
the flanks, and streaked with crosswise stripes that disappear when the animal dies. These
fish followed us in schools and supplied our table with very dainty flesh.  We also caught
a large number of yellow-green gilthead, half a decimeter long and tasting like dorado, plus
some flying gurnards, authentic underwater swallows that, on dark nights, alternately streak
air and water with their phosphorescent glimmers. Among mollusks and zoophytes, I found in
our trawl's meshes various species of alcyonarian coral, sea urchins, hammer shells, spurred-star
shells, wentletrap snails, horn shells, glass snails. The local flora was represented by fine
floating algae: sea tangle, and kelp from the genus Macrocystis, saturated with the mucilage
their pores perspire, from which I selected a wonderful Nemastoma geliniaroidea, classifying
it with the natural curiosities in the museum.

On January 4, two days after crossing the Coral Sea, we raised the coast of Papua.  On this
occasion Captain Nemo told me that he intended to reach the Indian Ocean via the Torres Strait.
This was the extent of his remarks.  Ned saw with pleasure that this course would bring us,
once again, closer to European seas.

The Torres Strait is regarded as no less dangerous for its bristling reefs than for the savage
inhabitants of its coasts. It separates Queensland from the huge island of Papua, also called
New Guinea.

Papua is 400 leagues long by 130 leagues wide, with a surface area of 40,000 geographic leagues.
It's located between latitude 0 degrees 19' and 10 degrees 2' south, and between longitude
128 degrees 23' and 146 degrees 15'. At noon, while the chief officer was taking the sun's
altitude, I spotted the summits of the Arfak Mountains, rising in terraces and ending in sharp
peaks.

Discovered in 1511 by the Portuguese Francisco Serrano, these shores were successively visited
by Don Jorge de Meneses in 1526, by Juan de Grijalva in 1527, by the Spanish general Alvaro
de Saavedra in 1528, by Inigo Ortiz in 1545, by the Dutchman Schouten in 1616, by Nicolas Sruick
in 1753, by Tasman, Dampier, Fumel, Carteret, Edwards, Bougainville, Cook, McClure, and Thomas
Forrest, by Rear Admiral d'Entrecasteaux in 1792, by Louis-Isidore Duperrey in 1823, and by
Captain Dumont d'Urville in 1827.  "It's the heartland of the blacks who occupy all Malaysia,"
Mr. de Rienzi has said; and I hadn't the foggiest inkling that sailors' luck was about to bring
me face to face with these daunting Andaman aborigines.

So the Nautilus hove before the entrance to the world's most dangerous strait, a passageway
that even the boldest navigators hesitated to clear:  the strait that Luis Vaez de Torres faced
on returning from the South Seas in Melanesia, the strait in which sloops of war under Captain
Dumont d'Urville ran aground in 1840 and nearly miscarried with all hands. And even the Nautilus,
rising superior to every danger in the sea, was about to become intimate with its coral reefs.

The Torres Strait is about thirty-four leagues wide, but it's obstructed by an incalculable
number of islands, islets, breakers, and rocks that make it nearly impossible to navigate.
Consequently, Captain Nemo took every desired precaution in crossing it.  Floating flush with
the water, the Nautilus moved ahead at a moderate pace. Like a cetacean's tail, its propeller
churned the waves slowly.

Taking advantage of this situation, my two companions and I found seats on the ever-deserted
platform.  In front of us stood the pilothouse, and unless I'm extremely mistaken, Captain
Nemo must have been inside, steering his Nautilus himself.

Under my eyes I had the excellent charts of the Torres Strait that had been surveyed and drawn
up by the hydrographic engineer Vincendon Dumoulin and Sublieutenant (now Admiral) Coupvent-Desbois,
who were part of Dumont d'Urville's general staff during his final voyage to circumnavigate
the globe.  These, along with the efforts of Captain King, are the best charts for untangling
the snarl of this narrow passageway, and I consulted them with scrupulous care.

Around the Nautilus the sea was boiling furiously.  A stream of waves, bearing from southeast
to northwest at a speed of two and a half miles per hour, broke over heads of coral emerging
here and there.

"That's one rough sea!"  Ned Land told me.

"Abominable indeed," I replied, "and hardly suitable for a craft like the Nautilus."

"That damned captain," the Canadian went on, "must really be sure of his course, because if
these clumps of coral so much as brush us, they'll rip our hull into a thousand pieces!"

The situation was indeed dangerous, but as if by magic, the Nautilus seemed to glide right
down the middle of these rampaging reefs. It didn't follow the exact course of the Zealous
and the new Astrolabe, which had proved so ill-fated for Captain Dumont d'Urville. It went
more to the north, hugged the Murray Islands, and returned to the southwest near Cumberland
Passage.  I thought it was about to charge wholeheartedly into this opening, but it went up
to the northwest, through a large number of little-known islands and islets, and steered toward
Tound Island and the Bad Channel.

I was already wondering if Captain Nemo, rash to the point of sheer insanity, wanted his ship
to tackle the narrows where Dumont d'Urville's two sloops of war had gone aground, when he
changed direction a second time and cut straight to the west, heading toward Gueboroa Island.

By then it was three o'clock in the afternoon.  The current was slacking off, it was almost
full tide.  The Nautilus drew near this island, which I can see to this day with its remarkable
fringe of screw pines. We hugged it from less than two miles out.

A sudden jolt threw me down.  The Nautilus had just struck a reef, and it remained motionless,
listing slightly to port.

When I stood up, I saw Captain Nemo and his chief officer on the platform.  They were examining
the ship's circumstances, exchanging a few words in their incomprehensible dialect.

Here is what those circumstances entailed.  Two miles to starboard lay Gueboroa Island, its
coastline curving north to west like an immense arm. To the south and east, heads of coral
were already on display, left uncovered by the ebbing waters.  We had run aground at full tide
and in one of those seas whose tides are moderate, an inconvenient state of affairs for floating
the Nautilus off.  However, the ship hadn't suffered in any way, so solidly joined was its
hull. But although it could neither sink nor split open, it was in serious danger of being
permanently attached to these reefs, and that would have been the finish of Captain Nemo's
submersible.

I was mulling this over when the captain approached, cool and calm, forever in control of himself,
looking neither alarmed nor annoyed.

"An accident?"  I said to him.

"No, an incident," he answered me.

"But an incident," I replied, "that may oblige you to become a resident again of these shores
you avoid!"

Captain Nemo gave me an odd look and gestured no.  Which told me pretty clearly that nothing
would ever force him to set foot on a land mass again.  Then he said:

"No, Professor Aronnax, the Nautilus isn't consigned to perdition. It will still carry you
through the midst of the ocean's wonders. Our voyage is just beginning, and I've no desire
to deprive myself so soon of the pleasure of your company."

"Even so, Captain Nemo," I went on, ignoring his ironic turn of phrase, "the Nautilus has run
aground at a moment when the sea is full. Now then, the tides aren't strong in the Pacific,
and if you can't unballast the Nautilus, which seems impossible to me, I don't see how it will
float off."

"You're right, professor, the Pacific tides aren't strong," Captain Nemo replied.  "But in
the Torres Strait, one still finds a meter-and-a-half difference in level between high and
low seas. Today is January 4, and in five days the moon will be full. Now then, I'll be quite
astonished if that good-natured satellite doesn't sufficiently raise these masses of water
and do me a favor for which I'll be forever grateful."

This said, Captain Nemo went below again to the Nautilus's interior, followed by his chief
officer.  As for our craft, it no longer stirred, staying as motionless as if these coral polyps
had already walled it in with their indestructible cement.

"Well, sir?"  Ned Land said to me, coming up after the captain's departure.

"Well, Ned my friend, we'll serenely wait for the tide on the 9th, because it seems the moon
will have the good nature to float us away!"

"As simple as that?"

"As simple as that."

"So our captain isn't going to drop his anchors, put his engines on the chains, and do anything
to haul us off?"

"Since the tide will be sufficient," Conseil replied simply.

The Canadian stared at Conseil, then he shrugged his shoulders. The seaman in him was talking now.

"Sir," he answered, "you can trust me when I say this hunk of iron will never navigate again,
on the seas or under them. It's only fit to be sold for its weight.  So I think it's time we
gave Captain Nemo the slip."

"Ned my friend," I replied, "unlike you, I haven't given up on our valiant Nautilus, and in
four days we'll know where we stand on these Pacific tides.  Besides, an escape attempt might
be timely if we were in sight of the coasts of England or Provence, but in the waterways of
Papua it's another story.  And we'll always have that as a last resort if the Nautilus doesn't
right itself, which I'd regard as a real calamity."

"But couldn't we at least get the lay of the land?"  Ned went on. "Here's an island.  On this
island there are trees. Under those trees land animals loaded with cutlets and roast beef,
which I'd be happy to sink my teeth into."

"In this instance our friend Ned is right," Conseil said, "and I side with his views.  Couldn't
master persuade his friend Captain Nemo to send the three of us ashore, if only so our feet
don't lose the knack of treading on the solid parts of our planet?"

"I can ask him," I replied, "but he'll refuse."

"Let master take the risk," Conseil said, "and we'll know where we stand on the captain's affability."

Much to my surprise, Captain Nemo gave me the permission I asked for, and he did so with grace
and alacrity, not even exacting my promise to return on board.  But fleeing across the New
Guinea territories would be extremely dangerous, and I wouldn't have advised Ned Land to try
it. Better to be prisoners aboard the Nautilus than to fall into the hands of Papuan natives.

The skiff was put at our disposal for the next morning. I hardly needed to ask whether Captain
Nemo would be coming along. I likewise assumed that no crewmen would be assigned to us, that
Ned Land would be in sole charge of piloting the longboat. Besides, the shore lay no more than
two miles off, and it would be child's play for the Canadian to guide that nimble skiff through
those rows of reefs so ill-fated for big ships.

The next day, January 5, after its deck paneling was opened, the skiff was wrenched from its
socket and launched to sea from the top of the platform.  Two men were sufficient for this
operation. The oars were inside the longboat and we had only to take our seats.

At eight o'clock, armed with rifles and axes, we pulled clear of the Nautilus.  The sea was
fairly calm.  A mild breeze blew from shore.  In place by the oars, Conseil and I rowed vigorously,
and Ned steered us into the narrow lanes between the breakers. The skiff handled easily and
sped swiftly.

Ned Land couldn't conceal his glee.  He was a prisoner escaping from prison and never dreaming
he would need to reenter it.

"Meat!" he kept repeating.  "Now we'll eat red meat!  Actual game! A real mess call, by thunder!
I'm not saying fish aren't good for you, but we mustn't overdo 'em, and a slice of fresh venison
grilled over live coals will be a nice change from our standard fare."

"You glutton," Conseil replied, "you're making my mouth water!"

"It remains to be seen," I said, "whether these forests do contain game, and if the types of
game aren't of such size that they can hunt the hunter."

"Fine, Professor Aronnax!" replied the Canadian, whose teeth seemed to be as honed as the edge
of an ax.  "But if there's no other quadruped on this island, I'll eat tiger--tiger sirloin."

"Our friend Ned grows disturbing," Conseil replied.

"Whatever it is," Ned Land went on, "any animal having four feet without feathers, or two feet
with feathers, will be greeted by my very own one-gun salute."

"Oh good!"  I replied.  "The reckless Mr. Land is at it again!"

"Don't worry, Professor Aronnax, just keep rowing!" the Canadian replied. "I only need twenty-five
minutes to serve you one of my own special creations."

By 8:30 the Nautilus's skiff had just run gently aground on a sandy strand, after successfully
clearing the ring of coral that surrounds Gueboroa Island.

CHAPTER 21

Some Days Ashore

STEPPING ASHORE had an exhilarating effect on me.  Ned Land tested the soil with his foot,
as if he were laying claim to it. Yet it had been only two months since we had become, as Captain
Nemo expressed it, "passengers on the Nautilus," in other words, the literal prisoners of its
commander.

In a few minutes we were a gunshot away from the coast.  The soil was almost entirely madreporic,
but certain dry stream beds were strewn with granite rubble, proving that this island was of
primordial origin. The entire horizon was hidden behind a curtain of wonderful forests. Enormous
trees, sometimes as high as 200 feet, were linked to each other by garlands of tropical creepers,
genuine natural hammocks that swayed in a mild breeze.  There were mimosas, banyan trees, beefwood,
teakwood, hibiscus, screw pines, palm trees, all mingling in wild profusion; and beneath the
shade of their green canopies, at the feet of their gigantic trunks, there grew orchids, leguminous
plants, and ferns.

Meanwhile, ignoring all these fine specimens of Papuan flora, the Canadian passed up the decorative
in favor of the functional. He spotted a coconut palm, beat down some of its fruit, broke them
open, and we drank their milk and ate their meat with a pleasure that was a protest against
our standard fare on the Nautilus.

"Excellent!"  Ned Land said.

"Exquisite!"  Conseil replied.

"And I don't think," the Canadian said, "that your Nemo would object to us stashing a cargo
of coconuts aboard his vessel?"

"I imagine not," I replied, "but he won't want to sample them."

"Too bad for him!"  Conseil said.

"And plenty good for us!"  Ned Land shot back.  "There'll be more left over!"

"A word of caution, Mr. Land," I told the harpooner, who was about to ravage another coconut
palm.  "Coconuts are admirable things, but before we stuff the skiff with them, it would be
wise to find out whether this island offers other substances just as useful. Some fresh vegetables
would be well received in the Nautilus's pantry."

"Master is right," Conseil replied, "and I propose that we set aside three places in our longboat:
one for fruit, another for vegetables, and a third for venison, of which I still haven't glimpsed
the tiniest specimen."

"Don't give up so easily, Conseil," the Canadian replied.

"So let's continue our excursion," I went on, "but keep a sharp lookout. This island seems
uninhabited, but it still might harbor certain individuals who aren't so finicky about the
sort of game they eat!"

"Hee hee!"  Ned put in, with a meaningful movement of his jaws.

"Ned!  Oh horrors!"  Conseil exclaimed.

"Ye gods," the Canadian shot back, "I'm starting to appreciate the charms of cannibalism!"

"Ned, Ned!  Don't say that!"  Conseil answered.  "You a cannibal? Why, I'll no longer be safe
next to you, I who share your cabin! Does this mean I'll wake up half devoured one fine day?"

"I'm awfully fond of you, Conseil my friend, but not enough to eat you when there's better
food around."

"Then I daren't delay," Conseil replied.  "The hunt is on! We absolutely must bag some game
to placate this man-eater, or one of these mornings master won't find enough pieces of his
manservant to serve him."

While exchanging this chitchat, we entered beneath the dark canopies of the forest, and for
two hours we explored it in every direction.

We couldn't have been luckier in our search for edible vegetation, and some of the most useful
produce in the tropical zones supplied us with a valuable foodstuff missing on board.

I mean the breadfruit tree, which is quite abundant on Gueboroa Island, and there I chiefly
noted the seedless variety that in Malaysia is called "rima."

This tree is distinguished from other trees by a straight trunk forty feet high.  To the naturalist's
eye, its gracefully rounded crown, formed of big multilobed leaves, was enough to denote the
artocarpus that has been so successfully transplanted to the Mascarene Islands east of

Madagascar.  From its mass of greenery, huge globular fruit stood out, a decimeter wide and
furnished on the outside with creases that assumed a hexangular pattern.  It's a handy plant
that nature gives to regions lacking in wheat; without needing to be cultivated, it bears fruit
eight months out of the year.

Ned Land was on familiar terms with this fruit.  He had already eaten it on his many voyages
and knew how to cook its edible substance. So the very sight of it aroused his appetite, and
he couldn't control himself.

"Sir," he told me, "I'll die if I don't sample a little breadfruit pasta!"

"Sample some, Ned my friend, sample all you like.  We're here to conduct experiments, let's
conduct them."

"It won't take a minute," the Canadian replied.

Equipped with a magnifying glass, he lit a fire of deadwood that was soon crackling merrily.
Meanwhile Conseil and I selected the finest artocarpus fruit.  Some still weren't ripe enough,
and their thick skins covered white, slightly fibrous pulps. But a great many others were yellowish
and gelatinous, just begging to be picked.

This fruit contained no pits.  Conseil brought a dozen of them to Ned Land, who cut them into
thick slices and placed them over a fire of live coals, all the while repeating:

"You'll see, sir, how tasty this bread is!"

"Especially since we've gone without baked goods for so long," Conseil said.

"It's more than just bread," the Canadian added.  "It's a dainty pastry. You've never eaten
any, sir?"

"No, Ned."

"All right, get ready for something downright delectable! If you don't come back for seconds,
I'm no longer the King of Harpooners!"

After a few minutes, the parts of the fruit exposed to the fire were completely toasted.  On
the inside there appeared some white pasta, a sort of soft bread center whose flavor reminded
me of artichoke.

This bread was excellent, I must admit, and I ate it with great pleasure.

"Unfortunately," I said, "this pasta won't stay fresh, so it seems pointless to make a supply
for on board."

"By thunder, sir!"  Ned Land exclaimed.  "There you go, talking like a naturalist, but meantime
I'll be acting like a baker! Conseil, harvest some of this fruit to take with us when we go back."

"And how will you prepare it?"  I asked the Canadian.

"I'll make a fermented batter from its pulp that'll keep indefinitely without spoiling.  When
I want some, I'll just cook it in the galley on board--it'll have a slightly tart flavor, but
you'll find it excellent."

"So, Mr. Ned, I see that this bread is all we need--"

"Not quite, professor," the Canadian replied.  "We need some fruit to go with it, or at least
some vegetables."

"Then let's look for fruit and vegetables."

When our breadfruit harvesting was done, we took to the trail to complete this "dry-land dinner."

We didn't search in vain, and near noontime we had an ample supply of bananas.  This delicious
produce from the Torrid Zones ripens all year round, and Malaysians, who give them the name
"pisang," eat them without bothering to cook them.  In addition to bananas, we gathered some
enormous jackfruit with a very tangy flavor, some tasty mangoes, and some pineapples of unbelievable
size. But this foraging took up a good deal of our time, which, even so, we had no cause to regret.

Conseil kept Ned under observation.  The harpooner walked in the lead, and during his stroll
through this forest, he gathered with sure hands some excellent fruit that should have completed
his provisions.

"So," Conseil asked, "you have everything you need, Ned my friend?"

"Humph!" the Canadian put in.

"What!  You're complaining?"

"All this vegetation doesn't make a meal," Ned replied. "Just side dishes, dessert.  But where's
the soup course? Where's the roast?"

"Right," I said.  "Ned promised us cutlets, which seems highly questionable to me."

"Sir," the Canadian replied, "our hunting not only isn't over, it hasn't even started.  Patience!
We're sure to end up bumping into some animal with either feathers or fur, if not in this locality,
then in another."

"And if not today, then tomorrow, because we mustn't wander too far off," Conseil added.  "That's
why I propose that we return to the skiff."

"What!  Already!"  Ned exclaimed.

"We ought to be back before nightfall," I said.

"But what hour is it, then?" the Canadian asked.

"Two o'clock at least," Conseil replied.

"How time flies on solid ground!" exclaimed Mr. Ned Land with a sigh of regret.

"Off we go!"  Conseil replied.

So we returned through the forest, and we completed our harvest by making a clean sweep of
some palm cabbages that had to be picked from the crowns of their trees, some small beans that
I recognized as the "abrou" of the Malaysians, and some high-quality yams.

We were overloaded when we arrived at the skiff.  However, Ned Land still found these provisions
inadequate.  But fortune smiled on him. Just as we were boarding, he spotted several trees
twenty-five to thirty feet high, belonging to the palm species. As valuable as the artocarpus,
these trees are justly ranked among the most useful produce in Malaysia.

They were sago palms, vegetation that grows without being cultivated; like mulberry trees,
they reproduce by means of shoots and seeds.

Ned Land knew how to handle these trees.  Taking his ax and wielding it with great vigor, he
soon stretched out on the ground two or three sago palms, whose maturity was revealed by the
white dust sprinkled over their palm fronds.

I watched him more as a naturalist than as a man in hunger. He began by removing from each
trunk an inch-thick strip of bark that covered a network of long, hopelessly tangled fibers
that were puttied with a sort of gummy flour.  This flour was the starch-like sago, an edible
substance chiefly consumed by the Melanesian peoples.

For the time being, Ned Land was content to chop these trunks into pieces, as if he were making
firewood; later he would extract the flour by sifting it through cloth to separate it from
its fibrous ligaments, let it dry out in the sun, and leave it to harden inside molds.

Finally, at five o'clock in the afternoon, laden with all our treasures, we left the island
beach and half an hour later pulled alongside the Nautilus.  Nobody appeared on our arrival.
The enormous sheet-iron cylinder seemed deserted.  Our provisions loaded on board, I went below
to my stateroom.  There I found my supper ready. I ate and then fell asleep.

The next day, January 6:  nothing new on board.  Not a sound inside, not a sign of life.  The
skiff stayed alongside in the same place we had left it.  We decided to return to Gueboroa
Island.  Ned Land hoped for better luck in his hunting than on the day before, and he wanted
to visit a different part of the forest.

By sunrise we were off.  Carried by an inbound current, the longboat reached the island in
a matter of moments.

We disembarked, and thinking it best to abide by the Canadian's instincts, we followed Ned
Land, whose long legs threatened to outpace us.

Ned Land went westward up the coast; then, fording some stream beds, he reached open plains
that were bordered by wonderful forests. Some kingfishers lurked along the watercourses, but
they didn't let us approach.  Their cautious behavior proved to me that these winged creatures
knew where they stood on bipeds of our species, and I concluded that if this island wasn't
inhabited, at least human beings paid it frequent visits.

After crossing a pretty lush prairie, we arrived on the outskirts of a small wood, enlivened
by the singing and soaring of a large number of birds.

"Still, they're merely birds," Conseil said.

"But some are edible," the harpooner replied.

"Wrong, Ned my friend," Conseil answered, "because I see only ordinary parrots here."

"Conseil my friend," Ned replied in all seriousness, "parrots are like pheasant to people with
nothing else on their plates."

"And I might add," I said, "that when these birds are properly cooked, they're at least worth
a stab of the fork."

Indeed, under the dense foliage of this wood, a whole host of parrots fluttered from branch
to branch, needing only the proper upbringing to speak human dialects.  At present they were
cackling in chorus with parakeets of every color, with solemn cockatoos that seemed to be pondering
some philosophical problem, while bright red lories passed by like pieces of bunting borne
on the breeze, in the midst of kalao parrots raucously on the wing, Papuan lories painted the
subtlest shades of azure, and a whole variety of delightful winged creatures, none terribly edible.

However, one bird unique to these shores, which never passes beyond the boundaries of the Aru
and Papuan Islands, was missing from this collection.  But I was given a chance to marvel at
it soon enough.

After crossing through a moderately dense thicket, we again found some plains obstructed by
bushes.  There I saw some magnificent birds soaring aloft, the arrangement of their long feathers
causing them to head into the wind.  Their undulating flight, the grace of their aerial curves,
and the play of their colors allured and delighted the eye. I had no trouble identifying them.

"Birds of paradise!"  I exclaimed.

"Order Passeriforma, division Clystomora," Conseil replied.

"Partridge family?"  Ned Land asked.

"I doubt it, Mr. Land.  Nevertheless, I'm counting on your dexterity to catch me one of these
delightful representatives of tropical nature!"

"I'll give it a try, professor, though I'm handier with a harpoon than a rifle."

Malaysians, who do a booming business in these birds with the Chinese, have various methods
for catching them that we couldn't use. Sometimes they set snares on the tops of the tall trees
that the bird of paradise prefers to inhabit.  At other times they capture it with a tenacious
glue that paralyzes its movements. They will even go so far as to poison the springs where
these fowl habitually drink.  But in our case, all we could do was fire at them on the wing,
which left us little chance of getting one. And in truth, we used up a good part of our ammunition
in vain.

Near eleven o'clock in the morning, we cleared the lower slopes of the mountains that form
the island's center, and we still hadn't bagged a thing.  Hunger spurred us on. The hunters
had counted on consuming the proceeds of their hunting, and they had miscalculated.  Luckily,
and much to his surprise, Conseil pulled off a right-and-left shot and insured our breakfast.
He brought down a white pigeon and a ringdove, which were briskly plucked, hung from a spit,
and roasted over a blazing fire of deadwood. While these fascinating animals were cooking,
Ned prepared some bread from the artocarpus.  Then the pigeon and ringdove were devoured to
the bones and declared excellent.  Nutmeg, on which these birds habitually gorge themselves,
sweetens their flesh and makes it delicious eating.

"They taste like chicken stuffed with truffles," Conseil said.

"All right, Ned," I asked the Canadian, "now what do you need?"

"Game with four paws, Professor Aronnax," Ned Land replied. "All these pigeons are only appetizers,
snacks.  So till I've bagged an animal with cutlets, I won't be happy!"

"Nor I, Ned, until I've caught a bird of paradise."

"Then let's keep hunting," Conseil replied, "but while heading back to the sea.  We've arrived
at the foothills of these mountains, and I think we'll do better if we return to the forest
regions."

It was good advice and we took it.  After an hour's walk we reached a genuine sago palm forest.
A few harmless snakes fled underfoot. Birds of paradise stole off at our approach, and I was
in real despair of catching one when Conseil, walking in the lead, stooped suddenly, gave a
triumphant shout, and came back to me, carrying a magnificent bird of paradise.

"Oh bravo, Conseil!"  I exclaimed.

"Master is too kind," Conseil replied.

"Not at all, my boy.  That was a stroke of genius, catching one of these live birds with your
bare hands!"

"If master will examine it closely, he'll see that I deserve no great praise."

"And why not, Conseil?"

"Because this bird is as drunk as a lord."

"Drunk?"

"Yes, master, drunk from the nutmegs it was devouring under that nutmeg tree where I caught
it.  See, Ned my friend, see the monstrous results of intemperance!"

"Damnation!" the Canadian shot back.  "Considering the amount of gin I've had these past two
months, you've got nothing to complain about!"

Meanwhile I was examining this unusual bird.  Conseil was not mistaken. Tipsy from that potent
juice, our bird of paradise had been reduced to helplessness.  It was unable to fly.  It was
barely able to walk. But this didn't alarm me, and I just let it sleep off its nutmeg.

This bird belonged to the finest of the eight species credited to Papua and its neighboring
islands.  It was a "great emerald," one of the rarest birds of paradise.  It measured three
decimeters long. Its head was comparatively small, and its eyes, placed near the opening of
its beak, were also small.  But it offered a wonderful mixture of hues: a yellow beak, brown
feet and claws, hazel wings with purple tips, pale yellow head and scruff of the neck, emerald
throat, the belly and chest maroon to brown.  Two strands, made of a horn substance covered
with down, rose over its tail, which was lengthened by long, very light feathers of wonderful
fineness, and they completed the costume of this marvelous bird that the islanders have poetically
named "the sun bird."

How I wished I could take this superb bird of paradise back to Paris, to make a gift of it
to the zoo at the Botanical Gardens, which doesn't own a single live specimen.

"So it must be a rarity or something?" the Canadian asked, in the tone of a hunter who, from
the viewpoint of his art, gives the game a pretty low rating.

"A great rarity, my gallant comrade, and above all very hard to capture alive.  And even after
they're dead, there's still a major market for these birds.  So the natives have figured out
how to create fake ones, like people create fake pearls or diamonds."

"What!"  Conseil exclaimed.  "They make counterfeit birds of paradise?"

"Yes, Conseil."

"And is master familiar with how the islanders go about it?"

"Perfectly familiar.  During the easterly monsoon season, birds of paradise lose the magnificent
feathers around their tails that naturalists call 'below-the-wing' feathers.  These feathers
are gathered by the fowl forgers and skillfully fitted onto some poor previously mutilated
parakeet.  Then they paint over the suture, varnish the bird, and ship the fruits of their
unique labors to museums and collectors in Europe."

"Good enough!"  Ned Land put in.  "If it isn't the right bird, it's still the right feathers,
and so long as the merchandise isn't meant to be eaten, I see no great harm!"

But if my desires were fulfilled by the capture of this bird of paradise, those of our Canadian
huntsman remained unsatisfied.  Luckily, near two o'clock Ned Land brought down a magnificent
wild pig of the type the natives call "bari-outang." This animal came in the nick of time for
us to bag some real quadruped meat, and it was warmly welcomed. Ned Land proved himself quite
gloriously with his gunshot. Hit by an electric bullet, the pig dropped dead on the spot.

The Canadian properly skinned and cleaned it, after removing half a dozen cutlets destined
to serve as the grilled meat course of our evening meal.  Then the hunt was on again, and once
more would be marked by the exploits of Ned and Conseil.

In essence, beating the bushes, the two friends flushed a herd of kangaroos that fled by bounding
away on their elastic paws. But these animals didn't flee so swiftly that our electric capsules
couldn't catch up with them.

"Oh, professor!" shouted Ned Land, whose hunting fever had gone to his brain.  "What excellent
game, especially in a stew! What a supply for the Nautilus!  Two, three, five down! And just
think how we'll devour all this meat ourselves, while those numbskulls on board won't get a shred!"

In his uncontrollable glee, I think the Canadian might have slaughtered the whole horde, if
he hadn't been so busy talking! But he was content with a dozen of these fascinating marsupials,
which make up the first order of aplacental mammals, as Conseil just had to tell us.

These animals were small in stature.  They were a species of those "rabbit kangaroos" that
usually dwell in the hollows of trees and are tremendously fast; but although of moderate dimensions,
they at least furnish a meat that's highly prized.

We were thoroughly satisfied with the results of our hunting. A gleeful Ned proposed that we
return the next day to this magic island, which he planned to depopulate of its every edible
quadruped. But he was reckoning without events.

By six o'clock in the evening, we were back on the beach. The skiff was aground in its usual
place.  The Nautilus, looking like a long reef, emerged from the waves two miles offshore.

Without further ado, Ned Land got down to the important business of dinner.  He came wonderfully
to terms with its entire cooking. Grilling over the coals, those cutlets from the "bari-outang"
soon gave off a succulent aroma that perfumed the air.

But I catch myself following in the Canadian's footsteps. Look at me--in ecstasy over freshly
grilled pork! Please grant me a pardon as I've already granted one to Mr. Land, and on the
same grounds!

In short, dinner was excellent.  Two ringdoves rounded out this extraordinary menu.  Sago pasta,
bread from the artocarpus, mangoes, half a dozen pineapples, and the fermented liquor from
certain coconuts heightened our glee.  I suspect that my two fine companions weren't quite
as clearheaded as one could wish.

"What if we don't return to the Nautilus this evening?"  Conseil said.

"What if we never return to it?"  Ned Land added.

Just then a stone whizzed toward us, landed at our feet, and cut short the harpooner's proposition.

CHAPTER 22

The Lightning Bolts of Captain Nemo

WITHOUT STANDING UP, we stared in the direction of the forest, my hand stopping halfway to
my mouth, Ned Land's completing its assignment.

"Stones don't fall from the sky," Conseil said, "or else they deserve to be called meteorites."

A second well-polished stone removed a tasty ringdove leg from Conseil's hand, giving still
greater relevance to his observation.

We all three stood up, rifles to our shoulders, ready to answer any attack.

"Apes maybe?"  Ned Land exclaimed.

"Nearly," Conseil replied.  "Savages."

"Head for the skiff!"  I said, moving toward the sea.

The skiff was aground ten fathoms away from us.

The savages approached without running, but they favored us with a show of the greatest hostility.
It was raining stones and arrows.

Ned Land was unwilling to leave his provisions behind, and despite the impending danger, he
clutched his pig on one side, his kangaroos on the other, and scampered off with respectable speed.

In two minutes we were on the strand.  Loading provisions and weapons into the skiff, pushing
it to sea, and positioning its two oars were the work of an instant.  I looked to see if their
appearance might draw some of the Nautilus's men onto the platform.  But no. Lying well out,
that enormous machine still seemed completely deserted.

Twenty minutes later we boarded ship.  The hatches were open. After mooring the skiff, we reentered
the Nautilus's interior.

I went below to the lounge, from which some chords were wafting. Captain Nemo was there, leaning
over the organ, deep in a musical trance.

"Captain!"  I said to him.

He didn't hear me.

"Captain!"  I went on, touching him with my hand.

He trembled, and turning around:

"Ah, it's you, professor!" he said to me.  "Well, did you have a happy hunt?  Was your herb
gathering a success?"

"Yes, captain," I replied, "but unfortunately we've brought back a horde of bipeds whose proximity
worries me."

"What sort of bipeds?"

"Savages."

"Savages!"  Captain Nemo replied in an ironic tone.  "You set foot on one of the shores of
this globe, professor, and you're surprised to find savages there?  Where aren't there savages?
And besides, are they any worse than men elsewhere, these people you call savages?"

"But captain--"

"Speaking for myself, sir, I've encountered them everywhere."

"Well then," I replied, "if you don't want to welcome them aboard the Nautilus, you'd better
take some precautions!"

"Easy, professor, no cause for alarm."

"But there are a large number of these natives."

"What's your count?"

"At least a hundred."

"Professor Aronnax," replied Captain Nemo, whose fingers took their places again on the organ
keys, "if every islander in Papua were to gather on that beach, the Nautilus would still have
nothing to fear from their attacks!"

The captain's fingers then ran over the instrument's keyboard, and I noticed that he touched
only its black keys, which gave his melodies a basically Scottish color.  Soon he had forgotten
my presence and was lost in a reverie that I no longer tried to dispel.

I climbed onto the platform.  Night had already fallen, because in this low latitude the sun
sets quickly, without any twilight. I could see Gueboroa Island only dimly.  But numerous fires
had been kindled on the beach, attesting that the natives had no thoughts of leaving it.

For several hours I was left to myself, sometimes musing on the islanders-- but no longer fearing
them because the captain's unflappable confidence had won me over--and sometimes forgetting
them to marvel at the splendors of this tropical night.  My memories took wing toward France,
in the wake of those zodiacal stars due to twinkle over it in a few hours. The moon shone in
the midst of the constellations at their zenith. I then remembered that this loyal, good-natured
satellite would return to this same place the day after tomorrow, to raise the tide and tear
the Nautilus from its coral bed. Near midnight, seeing that all was quiet over the darkened
waves as well as under the waterside trees, I repaired to my cabin and fell into a peaceful sleep.

The night passed without mishap.  No doubt the Papuans had been frightened off by the mere
sight of this monster aground in the bay, because our hatches stayed open, offering easy access
to the Nautilus's interior.

At six o'clock in the morning, January 8, I climbed onto the platform. The morning shadows
were lifting.  The island was soon on view through the dissolving mists, first its beaches,
then its summits.

The islanders were still there, in greater numbers than on the day before, perhaps 500 or 600
of them.  Taking advantage of the low tide, some of them had moved forward over the heads of
coral to within two cable lengths of the Nautilus.  I could easily distinguish them. They obviously
were true Papuans, men of fine stock, athletic in build, forehead high and broad, nose large
but not flat, teeth white. Their woolly, red-tinted hair was in sharp contrast to their bodies,
which were black and glistening like those of Nubians.  Beneath their pierced, distended earlobes
there dangled strings of beads made from bone. Generally these savages were naked.  I noted
some women among them, dressed from hip to knee in grass skirts held up by belts made of vegetation.
Some of the chieftains adorned their necks with crescents and with necklaces made from beads
of red and white glass.

One of these chieftains came fairly close to the Nautilus, examining it with care.  He must
have been a "mado" of high rank, because he paraded in a mat of banana leaves that had ragged
edges and was accented with bright colors.

I could easily have picked off this islander, he stood at such close range; but I thought it
best to wait for an actual show of hostility. Between Europeans and savages, it's acceptable
for Europeans to shoot back but not to attack first.

During this whole time of low tide, the islanders lurked near the Nautilus, but they weren't
boisterous.  I often heard them repeat the word "assai," and from their gestures I understood
they were inviting me to go ashore, an invitation I felt obliged to decline.

So the skiff didn't leave shipside that day, much to the displeasure of Mr. Land who couldn't
complete his provisions. The adroit Canadian spent his time preparing the meat and flour products
he had brought from Gueboroa Island.  As for the savages, they went back to shore near eleven
o'clock in the morning, when the heads of coral began to disappear under the waves of the rising
tide. But I saw their numbers swell considerably on the beach. It was likely that they had
come from neighboring islands or from the mainland of Papua proper.  However, I didn't see
one local dugout canoe.

Having nothing better to do, I decided to dredge these beautiful, clear waters, which exhibited
a profusion of shells, zoophytes, and open-sea plants.  Besides, it was the last day the Nautilus
would spend in these waterways, if, tomorrow, it still floated off to the open sea as Captain
Nemo had promised.

So I summoned Conseil, who brought me a small, light dragnet similar to those used in oyster
fishing.

"What about these savages?"  Conseil asked me.  "With all due respect to master, they don't
strike me as very wicked!"

"They're cannibals even so, my boy."

"A person can be both a cannibal and a decent man," Conseil replied, "just as a person can
be both gluttonous and honorable. The one doesn't exclude the other."

"Fine, Conseil!  And I agree that there are honorable cannibals who decently devour their prisoners.
However, I'm opposed to being devoured, even in all decency, so I'll keep on my guard, especially
since the Nautilus's commander seems to be taking no precautions. And now let's get to work!"

For two hours our fishing proceeded energetically but without bringing up any rarities.  Our
dragnet was filled with Midas abalone, harp shells, obelisk snails, and especially the finest
hammer shells I had seen to that day.  We also gathered in a few sea cucumbers, some pearl
oysters, and a dozen small turtles that we saved for the ship's pantry.

But just when I least expected it, I laid my hands on a wonder, a natural deformity I'd have
to call it, something very seldom encountered. Conseil had just made a cast of the dragnet,
and his gear had come back up loaded with a variety of fairly ordinary seashells, when suddenly
he saw me plunge my arms swiftly into the net, pull out a shelled animal, and give a conchological
yell, in other words, the most piercing yell a human throat can produce.

"Eh?  What happened to master?"  Conseil asked, very startled. "Did master get bitten?"

"No, my boy, but I'd gladly have sacrificed a finger for such a find!"

"What find?"

"This shell," I said, displaying the subject of my triumph.

"But that's simply an olive shell of the 'tent olive' species, genus Oliva, order Pectinibranchia,
class Gastropoda, branch Mollusca--"

"Yes, yes, Conseil!  But instead of coiling from right to left, this olive shell rolls from
left to right!"

"It can't be!"  Conseil exclaimed.

"Yes, my boy, it's a left-handed shell!"

"A left-handed shell!"  Conseil repeated, his heart pounding.

"Look at its spiral!"

"Oh, master can trust me on this," Conseil said, taking the valuable shell in trembling hands,
"but never have I felt such excitement!"

And there was good reason to be excited!  In fact, as naturalists have ventured to observe,
"dextrality" is a well-known law of nature. In their rotational and orbital movements, stars
and their satellites go from right to left.  Man uses his right hand more often than his left,
and consequently his various instruments and equipment (staircases, locks, watch springs, etc.)
are designed to be used in a right-to-left manner. Now then, nature has generally obeyed this
law in coiling her shells. They're right-handed with only rare exceptions, and when by chance
a shell's spiral is left-handed, collectors will pay its weight in gold for it.

So Conseil and I were deep in the contemplation of our treasure, and I was solemnly promising
myself to enrich the Paris Museum with it, when an ill-timed stone, hurled by one of the islanders,
whizzed over and shattered the valuable object in Conseil's hands.

I gave a yell of despair!  Conseil pounced on his rifle and aimed at a savage swinging a sling
just ten meters away from him. I tried to stop him, but his shot went off and shattered a bracelet
of amulets dangling from the islander's arm.

"Conseil!"  I shouted.  "Conseil!"

"Eh?  What?  Didn't master see that this man-eater initiated the attack?"

"A shell isn't worth a human life!"  I told him.

"Oh, the rascal!"  Conseil exclaimed.  "I'd rather he cracked my shoulder!"

Conseil was in dead earnest, but I didn't subscribe to his views. However, the situation had
changed in only a short time and we hadn't noticed.  Now some twenty dugout canoes were surrounding
the Nautilus.  Hollowed from tree trunks, these dugouts were long, narrow, and well designed
for speed, keeping their balance by means of two bamboo poles that floated on the surface of
the water. They were maneuvered by skillful, half-naked paddlers, and I viewed their advance
with definite alarm.

It was obvious these Papuans had already entered into relations with Europeans and knew their
ships.  But this long, iron cylinder lying in the bay, with no masts or funnels--what were
they to make of it? Nothing good, because at first they kept it at a respectful distance. However,
seeing that it stayed motionless, they regained confidence little by little and tried to become
more familiar with it. Now then, it was precisely this familiarity that we needed to prevent.
Since our weapons made no sound when they went off, they would have only a moderate effect
on these islanders, who reputedly respect nothing but noisy mechanisms.  Without thunderclaps,
lightning bolts would be much less frightening, although the danger lies in the flash, not
the noise.

Just then the dugout canoes drew nearer to the Nautilus, and a cloud of arrows burst over us.

"Fire and brimstone, it's hailing!"  Conseil said. "And poisoned hail perhaps!"

"We've got to alert Captain Nemo," I said, reentering the hatch.

I went below to the lounge.  I found no one there.  I ventured a knock at the door opening
into the captain's stateroom.

The word "Enter!" answered me.  I did so and found Captain Nemo busy with calculations in which
there was no shortage of X and other algebraic signs.

"Am I disturbing you?"  I said out of politeness.

"Correct, Professor Aronnax," the captain answered me. "But I imagine you have pressing reasons
for looking me up?"

"Very pressing.  Native dugout canoes are surrounding us, and in a few minutes we're sure to
be assaulted by several hundred savages."

"Ah!"  Captain Nemo put in serenely.  "They've come in their dugouts?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, sir, closing the hatches should do the trick."

"Precisely, and that's what I came to tell you--"

"Nothing easier," Captain Nemo said.

And he pressed an electric button, transmitting an order to the crew's quarters.

"There, sir, all under control!" he told me after a few moments. "The skiff is in place and
the hatches are closed.  I don't imagine you're worried that these gentlemen will stave in
walls that shells from your frigate couldn't breach?"

"No, captain, but one danger still remains."

"What's that, sir?"

"Tomorrow at about this time, we'll need to reopen the hatches to renew the Nautilus's air."

"No argument, sir, since our craft breathes in the manner favored by cetaceans."

"But if these Papuans are occupying the platform at that moment, I don't see how you can prevent
them from entering."

"Then, sir, you assume they'll board the ship?"

"I'm certain of it."

"Well, sir, let them come aboard.  I see no reason to prevent them. Deep down they're just
poor devils, these Papuans, and I don't want my visit to Gueboroa Island to cost the life of
a single one of these unfortunate people!"

On this note I was about to withdraw; but Captain Nemo detained me and invited me to take a
seat next to him.  He questioned me with interest on our excursions ashore and on our hunting,
but seemed not to understand the Canadian's passionate craving for red meat. Then our conversation
skimmed various subjects, and without being more forthcoming, Captain Nemo proved more affable.

Among other things, we came to talk of the Nautilus's circumstances, aground in the same strait
where Captain Dumont d'Urville had nearly miscarried.  Then, pertinent to this:

"He was one of your great seamen," the captain told me, "one of your shrewdest navigators,
that d'Urville! He was the Frenchman's Captain Cook.  A man wise but unlucky! Braving the ice
banks of the South Pole, the coral of Oceania, the cannibals of the Pacific, only to perish
wretchedly in a train wreck! If that energetic man was able to think about his life in its
last seconds, imagine what his final thoughts must have been!"

As he spoke, Captain Nemo seemed deeply moved, an emotion I felt was to his credit.

Then, chart in hand, we returned to the deeds of the French navigator: his voyages to circumnavigate
the globe, his double attempt at the South Pole, which led to his discovery of the Adélie Coast
and the Louis-Philippe Peninsula, finally his hydrographic surveys of the chief islands in Oceania.

"What your d'Urville did on the surface of the sea," Captain Nemo told me, "I've done in the
ocean's interior, but more easily, more completely than he.  Constantly tossed about by hurricanes,
the Zealous and the new Astrolabe couldn't compare with the Nautilus, a quiet work room truly
at rest in the midst of the waters!"

"Even so, captain," I said, "there is one major similarity between Dumont d'Urville's sloops
of war and the Nautilus."

"What's that, sir?"

"Like them, the Nautilus has run aground!"

"The Nautilus is not aground, sir," Captain Nemo replied icily. "The Nautilus was built to
rest on the ocean floor, and I don't need to undertake the arduous labors, the maneuvers d'Urville
had to attempt in order to float off his sloops of war. The Zealous and the new Astrolabe wellnigh
perished, but my Nautilus is in no danger.  Tomorrow, on the day stated and at the hour stated,
the tide will peacefully lift it off, and it will resume its navigating through the seas."

"Captain," I said, "I don't doubt--"

"Tomorrow," Captain Nemo added, standing up, "tomorrow at 2:40 in the afternoon, the Nautilus
will float off and exit the Torres Strait undamaged."

Pronouncing these words in an extremely sharp tone, Captain Nemo gave me a curt bow.  This
was my dismissal, and I reentered my stateroom.

There I found Conseil, who wanted to know the upshot of my interview with the captain.

"My boy," I replied, "when I expressed the belief that these Papuan natives were a threat to
his Nautilus, the captain answered me with great irony.  So I've just one thing to say to you:
have faith in him and sleep in peace."

"Master has no need for my services?"

"No, my friend.  What's Ned Land up to?"

"Begging master's indulgence," Conseil replied, "but our friend Ned is concocting a kangaroo
pie that will be the eighth wonder!"

I was left to myself; I went to bed but slept pretty poorly. I kept hearing noises from the
savages, who were stamping on the platform and letting out deafening yells.  The night passed
in this way, without the crew ever emerging from their usual inertia. They were no more disturbed
by the presence of these man-eaters than soldiers in an armored fortress are troubled by ants
running over the armor plate.

I got up at six o'clock in the morning.  The hatches weren't open. So the air inside hadn't
been renewed; but the air tanks were kept full for any eventuality and would function appropriately
to shoot a few cubic meters of oxygen into the Nautilus's thin atmosphere.

I worked in my stateroom until noon without seeing Captain Nemo even for an instant.  Nobody
on board seemed to be making any preparations for departure.

I still waited for a while, then I made my way to the main lounge. Its timepiece marked 2:30.
In ten minutes the tide would reach its maximum elevation, and if Captain Nemo hadn't made
a rash promise, the Nautilus would immediately break free.  If not, many months might pass
before it could leave its coral bed.

But some preliminary vibrations could soon be felt over the boat's hull. I heard its plating
grind against the limestone roughness of that coral base.

At 2:35 Captain Nemo appeared in the lounge.

"We're about to depart," he said.

"Ah!"  I put in.

"I've given orders to open the hatches."

"What about the Papuans?"

"What about them?"  Captain Nemo replied, with a light shrug of his shoulders.

"Won't they come inside the Nautilus?"

"How will they manage that?"

"By jumping down the hatches you're about to open."

"Professor Aronnax," Captain Nemo replied serenely, "the Nautilus's hatches aren't to be entered
in that fashion even when they're open."

I gaped at the captain.

"You don't understand?" he said to me.

"Not in the least."

"Well, come along and you'll see!"

I headed to the central companionway.  There, very puzzled, Ned Land and Conseil watched the
crewmen opening the hatches, while a frightful clamor and furious shouts resounded outside.

The hatch lids fell back onto the outer plating. Twenty horrible faces appeared.  But when
the first islander laid hands on the companionway railing, he was flung backward by some invisible
power, lord knows what!  He ran off, howling in terror and wildly prancing around.

Ten of his companions followed him.  All ten met the same fate.

Conseil was in ecstasy.  Carried away by his violent instincts, Ned Land leaped up the companionway.
But as soon as his hands seized the railing, he was thrown backward in his turn.

"Damnation!" he exclaimed.  "I've been struck by a lightning bolt!"

These words explained everything to me.  It wasn't just a railing that led to the platform,
it was a metal cable fully charged with the ship's electricity.  Anyone who touched it got
a fearsome shock-- and such a shock would have been fatal if Captain Nemo had thrown the full
current from his equipment into this conducting cable! It could honestly be said that he had
stretched between himself and his assailants a network of electricity no one could clear with
impunity.

Meanwhile, crazed with terror, the unhinged Papuans beat a retreat. As for us, half laughing,
we massaged and comforted poor Ned Land, who was swearing like one possessed.

But just then, lifted off by the tide's final undulations, the Nautilus left its coral bed
at exactly that fortieth minute pinpointed by the captain.  Its propeller churned the waves
with lazy majesty. Gathering speed little by little, the ship navigated on the surface of the
ocean, and safe and sound, it left behind the dangerous narrows of the Torres Strait.

CHAPTER 23

"Aegri Somnia"*

*Latin: "troubled dreams."  Ed.

THE FOLLOWING DAY, January 10, the Nautilus resumed its travels in midwater but at a remarkable
speed that I estimated to be at least thirty-five miles per hour.  The propeller was going
so fast I could neither follow nor count its revolutions.

I thought about how this marvelous electric force not only gave motion, heat, and light to
the Nautilus but even protected it against outside attack, transforming it into a sacred ark
no profane hand could touch without being blasted; my wonderment was boundless, and it went
from the submersible itself to the engineer who had created it.

We were traveling due west and on January 11 we doubled Cape Wessel, located in longitude 135
degrees and latitude 10 degrees north, the western tip of the Gulf of Carpentaria.  Reefs were
still numerous but more widely scattered and were fixed on the chart with the greatest accuracy.
The Nautilus easily avoided the Money breakers to port and the Victoria reefs to starboard,
positioned at longitude 130 degrees on the tenth parallel, which we went along rigorously.

On January 13, arriving in the Timor Sea, Captain Nemo raised the island of that name at longitude
122 degrees.  This island, whose surface area measures 1,625 square leagues, is governed by
rajahs. These aristocrats deem themselves the sons of crocodiles, in other words, descendants
with the most exalted origins to which a human being can lay claim.  Accordingly, their scaly
ancestors infest the island's rivers and are the subjects of special veneration. They are sheltered,
nurtured, flattered, pampered, and offered a ritual diet of nubile maidens; and woe to the
foreigner who lifts a finger against these sacred saurians.

But the Nautilus wanted nothing to do with these nasty animals. Timor Island was visible for
barely an instant at noon while the chief officer determined his position.  I also caught only
a glimpse of little Roti Island, part of this same group, whose women have a well-established
reputation for beauty in the Malaysian marketplace.

After our position fix, the Nautilus's latitude bearings were modulated to the southwest. 
Our prow pointed to the Indian Ocean.  Where would Captain Nemo's fancies take us?  Would he
head up to the shores of Asia?  Would he pull nearer to the beaches of Europe?  Unlikely choices
for a man who avoided populated areas!  So would he go down south? Would he double the Cape
of Good Hope, then Cape Horn, and push on to the Antarctic pole?  Finally, would he return
to the seas of the Pacific, where his Nautilus could navigate freely and easily? Time would tell.

After cruising along the Cartier, Hibernia, Seringapatam, and Scott reefs, the solid element's
last exertions against the liquid element, we were beyond all sight of shore by January 14.
The Nautilus slowed down in an odd manner, and very unpredictable in its ways, it sometimes
swam in the midst of the waters, sometimes drifted on their surface.

During this phase of our voyage, Captain Nemo conducted interesting experiments on the different
temperatures in various strata of the sea. Under ordinary conditions, such readings are obtained
using some pretty complicated instruments whose findings are dubious to say the least, whether
they're thermometric sounding lines, whose glass often shatters under the water's pressure,
or those devices based on the varying resistance of metals to electric currents. The results
so obtained can't be adequately double-checked. By contrast, Captain Nemo would seek the sea's
temperature by going himself into its depths, and when he placed his thermometer in contact
with the various layers of liquid, he found the sought-for degree immediately and with certainty.

And so, by loading up its ballast tanks, or by sinking obliquely with its slanting fins, the
Nautilus successively reached depths of 3,000, 4,000, 5,000, 7,000, 9,000, and 10,000 meters,
and the ultimate conclusion from these experiments was that, in all latitudes, the sea had
a permanent temperature of 4.5 degrees centigrade at a depth of 1,000 meters.

I watched these experiments with the most intense fascination. Captain Nemo brought a real
passion to them.  I often wondered why he took these observations.  Were they for the benefit
of his fellow man?  It was unlikely, because sooner or later his work would perish with him
in some unknown sea! Unless he intended the results of his experiments for me. But that meant
this strange voyage of mine would come to an end, and no such end was in sight.

Be that as it may, Captain Nemo also introduced me to the different data he had obtained on
the relative densities of the water in our globe's chief seas.  From this news I derived some
personal enlightenment having nothing to do with science.

It happened the morning of January 15.  The captain, with whom I was strolling on the platform,
asked me if I knew how salt water differs in density from sea to sea.  I said no, adding that
there was a lack of rigorous scientific observations on this subject.

"I've taken such observations," he told me, "and I can vouch for their reliability."

"Fine," I replied, "but the Nautilus lives in a separate world, and the secrets of its scientists
don't make their way ashore."

"You're right, professor," he told me after a few moments of silence. "This is a separate world.
It's as alien to the earth as the planets accompanying our globe around the sun, and we'll
never become familiar with the work of scientists on Saturn or Jupiter.  But since fate has
linked our two lives, I can reveal the results of my observations to you."

"I'm all attention, captain."

"You're aware, professor, that salt water is denser than fresh water, but this density isn't
uniform.  In essence, if I represent the density of fresh water by 1.000, then I find 1.028
for the waters of the Atlantic, 1.026 for the waters of the Pacific, 1.030 for the waters of
the Mediterranean--"

Aha, I thought, so he ventures into the Mediterranean?

"--1.018 for the waters of the Ionian Sea, and 1.029 for the waters of the Adriatic."

Assuredly, the Nautilus didn't avoid the heavily traveled seas of Europe, and from this insight
I concluded that the ship would take us back--perhaps very soon--to more civilized shores.
I expected Ned Land to greet this news with unfeigned satisfaction.

For several days our work hours were spent in all sorts of experiments, on the degree of salinity
in waters of different depths, or on their electric properties, coloration, and transparency,
and in every instance Captain Nemo displayed an ingenuity equaled only by his graciousness
toward me.  Then I saw no more of him for some days and again lived on board in seclusion.

On January 16 the Nautilus seemed to have fallen asleep just a few meters beneath the surface
of the water.  Its electric equipment had been turned off, and the motionless propeller let
it ride with the waves. I assumed that the crew were busy with interior repairs, required by
the engine's strenuous mechanical action.

My companions and I then witnessed an unusual sight. The panels in the lounge were open, and
since the Nautilus's beacon was off, a hazy darkness reigned in the midst of the waters. Covered
with heavy clouds, the stormy sky gave only the faintest light to the ocean's upper strata.

I was observing the state of the sea under these conditions, and even the largest fish were
nothing more than ill-defined shadows, when the Nautilus was suddenly transferred into broad
daylight. At first I thought the beacon had gone back on and was casting its electric light
into the liquid mass.  I was mistaken, and after a hasty examination I discovered my error.

The Nautilus had drifted into the midst of some phosphorescent strata, which, in this darkness,
came off as positively dazzling. This effect was caused by myriads of tiny, luminous animals
whose brightness increased when they glided over the metal hull of our submersible.  In the
midst of these luminous sheets of water, I then glimpsed flashes of light, like those seen
inside a blazing furnace from streams of molten lead or from masses of metal brought to a white
heat--flashes so intense that certain areas of the light became shadows by comparison, in a
fiery setting from which every shadow should seemingly have been banished. No, this was no
longer the calm emission of our usual lighting! This light throbbed with unprecedented vigor
and activity! You sensed that it was alive!

In essence, it was a cluster of countless open-sea infusoria, of noctiluca an eighth of an
inch wide, actual globules of transparent jelly equipped with a threadlike tentacle, up to
25,000 of which have been counted in thirty cubic centimeters of water. And the power of their
light was increased by those glimmers unique to medusas, starfish, common jellyfish, angel-wing
clams, and other phosphorescent zoophytes, which were saturated with grease from organic matter
decomposed by the sea, and perhaps with mucus secreted by fish.

For several hours the Nautilus drifted in this brilliant tide, and our wonderment grew when
we saw huge marine animals cavorting in it, like the fire-dwelling salamanders of myth. In
the midst of these flames that didn't burn, I could see swift, elegant porpoises, the tireless
pranksters of the seas, and sailfish three meters long, those shrewd heralds of hurricanes,
whose fearsome broadswords sometimes banged against the lounge window. Then smaller fish appeared:
miscellaneous triggerfish, leather jacks, unicornfish, and a hundred others that left stripes
on this luminous atmosphere in their course.

Some magic lay behind this dazzling sight!  Perhaps some atmospheric condition had intensified
this phenomenon? Perhaps a storm had been unleashed on the surface of the waves? But only a
few meters down, the Nautilus felt no tempest's fury, and the ship rocked peacefully in the
midst of the calm waters.

And so it went, some new wonder constantly delighting us. Conseil observed and classified his
zoophytes, articulates, mollusks, and fish.  The days passed quickly, and I no longer kept
track of them. Ned, as usual, kept looking for changes of pace from our standard fare. Like
actual snails, we were at home in our shell, and I can vouch that it's easy to turn into a
full-fledged snail.

So this way of living began to seem simple and natural to us, and we no longer envisioned a
different lifestyle on the surface of the planet earth, when something happened to remind us
of our strange circumstances.

On January 18 the Nautilus lay in longitude 105 degrees and latitude 15 degrees south.  The
weather was threatening, the sea rough and billowy. The wind was blowing a strong gust from
the east.  The barometer, which had been falling for some days, forecast an approaching struggle
of the elements.

I had climbed onto the platform just as the chief officer was taking his readings of hour angles.
Out of habit I waited for him to pronounce his daily phrase.  But that day it was replaced
by a different phrase, just as incomprehensible.  Almost at once I saw Captain Nemo appear,
lift his spyglass, and inspect the horizon.

For some minutes the captain stood motionless, rooted to the spot contained within the field
of his lens.  Then he lowered his spyglass and exchanged about ten words with his chief officer.
The latter seemed to be in the grip of an excitement he tried in vain to control.  More in
command of himself, Captain Nemo remained cool. Furthermore, he seemed to be raising certain
objections that his chief officer kept answering with flat assurances.  At least that's what
I gathered from their differences in tone and gesture.

As for me, I stared industriously in the direction under observation but without spotting a
thing.  Sky and water merged into a perfectly clean horizon line.

Meanwhile Captain Nemo strolled from one end of the platform to the other, not glancing at
me, perhaps not even seeing me. His step was firm but less regular than usual.  Sometimes he
would stop, cross his arms over his chest, and observe the sea. What could he be looking for
over that immense expanse? By then the Nautilus lay hundreds of miles from the nearest coast!

The chief officer kept lifting his spyglass and stubbornly examining the horizon, walking up
and down, stamping his foot, in his nervous agitation a sharp contrast to his superior.

But this mystery would inevitably be cleared up, and soon, because Captain Nemo gave orders
to increase speed; at once the engine stepped up its drive power, setting the propeller in
swifter rotation.

Just then the chief officer drew the captain's attention anew. The latter interrupted his strolling
and aimed his spyglass at the point indicated.  He observed it a good while. As for me, deeply
puzzled, I went below to the lounge and brought back an excellent long-range telescope I habitually
used. Leaning my elbows on the beacon housing, which jutted from the stern of the platform,
I got set to scour that whole stretch of sky and sea.

But no sooner had I peered into the eyepiece than the instrument was snatched from my hands.

I spun around.  Captain Nemo was standing before me, but I almost didn't recognize him.  His
facial features were transfigured. Gleaming with dark fire, his eyes had shrunk beneath his
frowning brow. His teeth were half bared.  His rigid body, clenched fists, and head drawn between
his shoulders, all attested to a fierce hate breathing from every pore.  He didn't move.  My
spyglass fell from his hand and rolled at his feet.

Had I accidentally caused these symptoms of anger?  Did this incomprehensible individual think
I had detected some secret forbidden to guests on the Nautilus?

No!  I wasn't the subject of his hate because he wasn't even looking at me; his eyes stayed
stubbornly focused on that inscrutable point of the horizon.

Finally Captain Nemo regained his self-control. His facial appearance, so profoundly changed,
now resumed its usual calm.  He addressed a few words to his chief officer in their strange
language, then he turned to me:

"Professor Aronnax," he told me in a tone of some urgency, "I ask that you now honor one of
the binding agreements between us."

"Which one, captain?"

"You and your companions must be placed in confinement until I see fit to set you free."

"You're in command," I answered, gaping at him.  "But may I address a question to you?"

"You may not, sir."

After that, I stopped objecting and started obeying, since resistance was useless.

I went below to the cabin occupied by Ned Land and Conseil, and I informed them of the captain's
decision.  I'll let the reader decide how this news was received by the Canadian.  In any case,
there was no time for explanations.  Four crewmen were waiting at the door, and they led us
to the cell where we had spent our first night aboard the Nautilus.

Ned Land tried to lodge a complaint, but the only answer he got was a door shut in his face.

"Will master tell me what this means?"  Conseil asked me.

I told my companions what had happened.  They were as astonished as I was, but no wiser.

Then I sank into deep speculation, and Captain Nemo's strange facial seizure kept haunting
me.  I was incapable of connecting two ideas in logical order, and I had strayed into the most
absurd hypotheses, when I was snapped out of my mental struggles by these words from Ned Land:

"Well, look here!  Lunch is served!"

Indeed, the table had been laid.  Apparently Captain Nemo had given this order at the same
time he commanded the Nautilus to pick up speed.

"Will master allow me to make him a recommendation?" Conseil asked me.

"Yes, my boy," I replied.

"Well, master needs to eat his lunch!  It's prudent, because we have no idea what the future
holds."

"You're right, Conseil."

"Unfortunately," Ned Land said, "they've only given us the standard menu."

"Ned my friend," Conseil answered, "what would you say if they'd given us no lunch at all?"

This dose of sanity cut the harpooner's complaints clean off.

We sat down at the table.  Our meal proceeded pretty much in silence. I ate very little.  Conseil,
everlastingly prudent, "force-fed" himself; and despite the menu, Ned Land didn't waste a bite.
Then, lunch over, each of us propped himself in a corner.

Just then the luminous globe lighting our cell went out, leaving us in profound darkness. 
Ned Land soon dozed off, and to my astonishment, Conseil also fell into a heavy slumber. I
was wondering what could have caused this urgent need for sleep, when I felt a dense torpor
saturate my brain. I tried to keep my eyes open, but they closed in spite of me. I was in the
grip of anguished hallucinations.  Obviously some sleep-inducing substance had been laced into
the food we'd just eaten! So imprisonment wasn't enough to conceal Captain Nemo's plans from
us-- sleep was needed as well!

Then I heard the hatches close.  The sea's undulations, which had been creating a gentle rocking
motion, now ceased. Had the Nautilus left the surface of the ocean?  Was it reentering the
motionless strata deep in the sea?

I tried to fight off this drowsiness.  It was impossible. My breathing grew weaker.  I felt
a mortal chill freeze my dull, nearly paralyzed limbs.  Like little domes of lead, my lids
fell over my eyes.  I couldn't raise them. A morbid sleep, full of hallucinations, seized my
whole being. Then the visions disappeared and left me in utter oblivion.

CHAPTER 24

The Coral Realm

THE NEXT DAY I woke up with my head unusually clear.  Much to my surprise, I was in my stateroom.
No doubt my companions had been put back in their cabin without noticing it any more than I
had. Like me, they would have no idea what took place during the night, and to unravel this
mystery I could count only on some future happenstance.

I then considered leaving my stateroom.  Was I free or still a prisoner? Perfectly free.  I
opened my door, headed down the gangways, and climbed the central companionway.  Hatches that
had been closed the day before were now open.  I arrived on the platform.

Ned Land and Conseil were there waiting for me.  I questioned them. They knew nothing.  Lost
in a heavy sleep of which they had no memory, they were quite startled to be back in their cabin.

As for the Nautilus, it seemed as tranquil and mysterious as ever. It was cruising on the surface
of the waves at a moderate speed. Nothing seemed to have changed on board.

Ned Land observed the sea with his penetrating eyes.  It was deserted. The Canadian sighted
nothing new on the horizon, neither sail nor shore. A breeze was blowing noisily from the west,
and disheveled by the wind, long billows made the submersible roll very noticeably.

After renewing its air, the Nautilus stayed at an average depth of fifteen meters, enabling
it to return quickly to the surface of the waves.  And, contrary to custom, it executed such
a maneuver several times during that day of January 19.  The chief officer would then climb
onto the platform, and his usual phrase would ring through the ship's interior.

As for Captain Nemo, he didn't appear.  Of the other men on board, I saw only my emotionless
steward, who served me with his usual mute efficiency.

Near two o'clock I was busy organizing my notes in the lounge, when the captain opened the
door and appeared.  I bowed to him. He gave me an almost imperceptible bow in return, without
saying a word to me.  I resumed my work, hoping he might give me some explanation of the previous
afternoon's events.  He did nothing of the sort. I stared at him.  His face looked exhausted;
his reddened eyes hadn't been refreshed by sleep; his facial features expressed profound sadness,
real chagrin.  He walked up and down, sat and stood, picked up a book at random, discarded
it immediately, consulted his instruments without taking his customary notes, and seemed unable
to rest easy for an instant.

Finally he came over to me and said:

"Are you a physician, Professor Aronnax?"

This inquiry was so unexpected that I stared at him a good while without replying.

"Are you a physician?" he repeated.  "Several of your scientific colleagues took their degrees
in medicine, such as Gratiolet, Moquin-Tandon, and others."

"That's right," I said, "I am a doctor, I used to be on call at the hospitals.  I was in practice
for several years before joining the museum."

"Excellent, sir."

My reply obviously pleased Captain Nemo.  But not knowing what he was driving at, I waited
for further questions, ready to reply as circumstances dictated.

"Professor Aronnax," the captain said to me, "would you consent to give your medical attentions
to one of my men?"

"Someone is sick?"

"Yes."

"I'm ready to go with you."

"Come."

I admit that my heart was pounding.  Lord knows why, but I saw a definite connection between
this sick crewman and yesterday's happenings, and the mystery of those events concerned me
at least as much as the man's sickness.

Captain Nemo led me to the Nautilus's stern and invited me into a cabin located next to the
sailors' quarters.

On a bed there lay a man some forty years old, with strongly molded features, the very image
of an Anglo-Saxon.

I bent over him.  Not only was he sick, he was wounded. Swathed in blood-soaked linen, his
head was resting on a folded pillow. I undid the linen bandages, while the wounded man gazed
with great staring eyes and let me proceed without making a single complaint.

It was a horrible wound.  The cranium had been smashed open by some blunt instrument, leaving
the naked brains exposed, and the cerebral matter had suffered deep abrasions.  Blood clots
had formed in this dissolving mass, taking on the color of wine dregs. Both contusion and concussion
of the brain had occurred.  The sick man's breathing was labored, and muscle spasms quivered
in his face. Cerebral inflammation was complete and had brought on a paralysis of movement
and sensation.

I took the wounded man's pulse.  It was intermittent. The body's extremities were already growing
cold, and I saw that death was approaching without any possibility of my holding it in check.
After dressing the poor man's wound, I redid the linen bandages around his head, and I turned
to Captain Nemo.

"How did he get this wound?"  I asked him.

"That's not important," the captain replied evasively. "The Nautilus suffered a collision that
cracked one of the engine levers, and it struck this man.  My chief officer was standing beside
him. This man leaped forward to intercept the blow.  A brother lays down his life for his brother,
a friend for his friend, what could be simpler? That's the law for everyone on board the Nautilus.
But what's your diagnosis of his condition?"

I hesitated to speak my mind.

"You may talk freely," the captain told me.  "This man doesn't understand French."

I took a last look at the wounded man, then I replied:

"This man will be dead in two hours."

"Nothing can save him?"

"Nothing."

Captain Nemo clenched his fists, and tears slid from his eyes, which I had thought incapable
of weeping.

For a few moments more I observed the dying man, whose life was ebbing little by little.  He
grew still more pale under the electric light that bathed his deathbed.  I looked at his intelligent
head, furrowed with premature wrinkles that misfortune, perhaps misery, had etched long before.
I was hoping to detect the secret of his life in the last words that might escape from his lips!

"You may go, Professor Aronnax," Captain Nemo told me.

I left the captain in the dying man's cabin and I repaired to my stateroom, very moved by this
scene.  All day long I was aquiver with gruesome forebodings.  That night I slept poorly, and
between my fitful dreams, I thought I heard a distant moaning, like a funeral dirge.  Was it
a prayer for the dead, murmured in that language I couldn't understand?

The next morning I climbed on deck.  Captain Nemo was already there. As soon as he saw me,
he came over.

"Professor," he said to me, "would it be convenient for you to make an underwater excursion today?"

"With my companions?"  I asked.

"If they're agreeable."

"We're yours to command, captain."

"Then kindly put on your diving suits."

As for the dead or dying man, he hadn't come into the picture.  I rejoined Ned Land and Conseil.
I informed them of Captain Nemo's proposition. Conseil was eager to accept, and this time the
Canadian proved perfectly amenable to going with us.

It was eight o'clock in the morning.  By 8:30 we were suited up for this new stroll and equipped
with our two devices for lighting and breathing. The double door opened, and accompanied by
Captain Nemo with a dozen crewmen following, we set foot on the firm seafloor where the Nautilus
was resting, ten meters down.

A gentle slope gravitated to an uneven bottom whose depth was about fifteen fathoms.  This
bottom was completely different from the one I had visited during my first excursion under
the waters of the Pacific Ocean.  Here I saw no fine-grained sand, no underwater prairies,
not one open-sea forest.  I immediately recognized the wondrous region in which Captain Nemo
did the honors that day. It was the coral realm.

In the zoophyte branch, class Alcyonaria, one finds the order Gorgonaria, which contains three
groups:  sea fans, isidian polyps, and coral polyps. It's in this last that precious coral
belongs, an unusual substance that, at different times, has been classified in the mineral,
vegetable, and animal kingdoms.  Medicine to the ancients, jewelry to the moderns, it wasn't
decisively placed in the animal kingdom until 1694, by Peysonnel of Marseilles.

A coral is a unit of tiny animals assembled over a polypary that's brittle and stony in nature.
These polyps have a unique generating mechanism that reproduces them via the budding process,
and they have an individual existence while also participating in a communal life.  Hence they
embody a sort of natural socialism. I was familiar with the latest research on this bizarre
zoophyte-- which turns to stone while taking on a tree form, as some naturalists have very
aptly observed--and nothing could have been more fascinating to me than to visit one of these
petrified forests that nature has planted on the bottom of the sea.

We turned on our Ruhmkorff devices and went along a coral shoal in the process of forming,
which, given time, will someday close off this whole part of the Indian Ocean.  Our path was
bordered by hopelessly tangled bushes, formed from snarls of shrubs all covered with little
star-shaped, white-streaked flowers. Only, contrary to plants on shore, these tree forms become
attached to rocks on the seafloor by heading from top to bottom.

Our lights produced a thousand delightful effects while playing over these brightly colored
boughs.  I fancied I saw these cylindrical, membrane-filled tubes trembling beneath the water's
undulations. I was tempted to gather their fresh petals, which were adorned with delicate tentacles,
some newly in bloom, others barely opened, while nimble fish with fluttering fins brushed past
them like flocks of birds. But if my hands came near the moving flowers of these sensitive,
lively creatures, an alarm would instantly sound throughout the colony. The white petals retracted
into their red sheaths, the flowers vanished before my eyes, and the bush changed into a chunk
of stony nipples.

Sheer chance had placed me in the presence of the most valuable specimens of this zoophyte.
This coral was the equal of those fished up from the Mediterranean off the Barbary Coast or
the shores of France and Italy.  With its bright colors, it lived up to those poetic names
of blood flower and blood foam that the industry confers on its finest exhibits.  Coral sells
for as much as 500 francs per kilogram, and in this locality the liquid strata hid enough to
make the fortunes of a whole host of coral fishermen. This valuable substance often merges
with other polyparies, forming compact, hopelessly tangled units known as "macciota," and I
noted some wonderful pink samples of this coral.

But as the bushes shrank, the tree forms magnified. Actual petrified thickets and long alcoves
from some fantastic school of architecture kept opening up before our steps. Captain Nemo entered
beneath a dark gallery whose gentle slope took us to a depth of 100 meters.  The light from
our glass coils produced magical effects at times, lingering on the wrinkled roughness of some
natural arch, or some overhang suspended like a chandelier, which our lamps flecked with fiery
sparks.  Amid these shrubs of precious coral, I observed other polyps no less unusual: melita
coral, rainbow coral with jointed outgrowths, then a few tufts of genus Corallina, some green
and others red, actually a type of seaweed encrusted with limestone salts, which, after long
disputes, naturalists have finally placed in the vegetable kingdom. But as one intellectual
has remarked, "Here, perhaps, is the actual point where life rises humbly out of slumbering
stone, but without breaking away from its crude starting point."

Finally, after two hours of walking, we reached a depth of about 300 meters, in other words,
the lowermost limit at which coral can begin to form.  But here it was no longer some isolated
bush or a modest grove of low timber.  It was an immense forest, huge mineral vegetation, enormous
petrified trees linked by garlands of elegant hydras from the genus Plumularia, those tropical
creepers of the sea, all decked out in shades and gleams. We passed freely under their lofty
boughs, lost up in the shadows of the waves, while at our feet organ-pipe coral, stony coral,
star coral, fungus coral, and sea anemone from the genus Caryophylia formed a carpet of flowers
all strewn with dazzling gems.

What an indescribable sight!  Oh, if only we could share our feelings! Why were we imprisoned
behind these masks of metal and glass! Why were we forbidden to talk with each other!  At least
let us lead the lives of the fish that populate this liquid element, or better yet, the lives
of amphibians, which can spend long hours either at sea or on shore, traveling through their
double domain as their whims dictate!

Meanwhile Captain Nemo had called a halt.  My companions and I stopped walking, and turning
around, I saw the crewmen form a semicircle around their leader.  Looking with greater care,
I observed that four of them were carrying on their shoulders an object that was oblong in shape.

At this locality we stood in the center of a huge clearing surrounded by the tall tree forms
of this underwater forest. Our lamps cast a sort of brilliant twilight over the area, making
inordinately long shadows on the seafloor.  Past the boundaries of the clearing, the darkness
deepened again, relieved only by little sparkles given off by the sharp crests of coral.

Ned Land and Conseil stood next to me.  We stared, and it dawned on me that I was about to
witness a strange scene. Observing the seafloor, I saw that it swelled at certain points from
low bulges that were encrusted with limestone deposits and arranged with a symmetry that betrayed
the hand of man.

In the middle of the clearing, on a pedestal of roughly piled rocks, there stood a cross of
coral, extending long arms you would have thought were made of petrified blood.

At a signal from Captain Nemo, one of his men stepped forward and, a few feet from this cross,
detached a mattock from his belt and began to dig a hole.

I finally understood!  This clearing was a cemetery, this hole a grave, that oblong object
the body of the man who must have died during the night!  Captain Nemo and his men had come
to bury their companion in this communal resting place on the inaccessible ocean floor!

No!  My mind was reeling as never before!  Never had ideas of such impact raced through my
brain!  I didn't want to see what my eyes saw!

Meanwhile the grave digging went slowly.  Fish fled here and there as their retreat was disturbed.
I heard the pick ringing on the limestone soil, its iron tip sometimes giving off sparks when
it hit a stray piece of flint on the sea bottom.  The hole grew longer, wider, and soon was
deep enough to receive the body.

Then the pallbearers approached.  Wrapped in white fabric made from filaments of the fan mussel,
the body was lowered into its watery grave. Captain Nemo, arms crossed over his chest, knelt
in a posture of prayer, as did all the friends of him who had loved them. . . . My two companions
and I bowed reverently.

The grave was then covered over with the rubble dug from the seafloor, and it formed a low mound.

When this was done, Captain Nemo and his men stood up; then they all approached the grave,
sank again on bended knee, and extended their hands in a sign of final farewell. . . .

Then the funeral party went back up the path to the Nautilus, returning beneath the arches
of the forest, through the thickets, along the coral bushes, going steadily higher.

Finally the ship's rays appeared.  Their luminous trail guided us to the Nautilus.  By one
o'clock we had returned.

After changing clothes, I climbed onto the platform, and in the grip of dreadfully obsessive
thoughts, I sat next to the beacon.

Captain Nemo rejoined me.  I stood up and said to him:

"So, as I predicted, that man died during the night?"

"Yes, Professor Aronnax," Captain Nemo replied.

"And now he rests beside his companions in that coral cemetery?"

"Yes, forgotten by the world but not by us!  We dig the graves, then entrust the polyps with
sealing away our dead for eternity!"

And with a sudden gesture, the captain hid his face in his clenched fists, vainly trying to
hold back a sob.  Then he added:

"There lies our peaceful cemetery, hundreds of feet beneath the surface of the waves!"

"At least, captain, your dead can sleep serenely there, out of the reach of sharks!"

"Yes, sir," Captain Nemo replied solemnly, "of sharks and men!"
     *German:  "Bulletin."   Ed.
     *Author's Note:  A steward is a waiter on board a steamer.
     *Latin:  nemo means "no one."  Ed.
     *Latin:  "in a class by itself."  Ed.
     *Latin:  a spigot "just for that purpose."  Ed.
     *Latin:  "troubled dreams."  Ed.
2 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

8 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

A Runaway Reef · 9

A Runaway Reef · 11

16 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

The Pros and Cons · 17

18 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

As Master Wishes · 19

22 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

As Master Wishes · 23

28 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

Ned Land · 27

30 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

At Random! · 29

· Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

At Random! · 31

32 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

At Random! · 35

At Random! · 37

42 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

At Full Steam · 43

46 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

At Full Steam · 47

52 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

A Whale of Unknown Species · 53

54 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

"Mobilis in Mobili" · 54

"Mobilis in Mobili" · 53

54 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

60 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

"Mobilis in Mobili" · 131

186 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

190 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

"Aegri Somnia" · 189

192 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

The Coral Realm · 193

194 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

198 · Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas

The Coral Realm · 197

SECOND PART

CHAPTER 1

The Indian Ocean

NOW WE BEGIN the second part of this voyage under the seas. The first ended in that moving
scene at the coral cemetery, which left a profound impression on my mind.  And so Captain Nemo
would live out his life entirely in the heart of this immense sea, and even his grave lay ready
in its impenetrable depths. There the last sleep of the Nautilus's occupants, friends bound
together in death as in life, would be disturbed by no monster of the deep! "No man either!"
the captain had added.

Always that same fierce, implacable defiance of human society!

As for me, I was no longer content with the hypotheses that satisfied Conseil.  That fine lad
persisted in seeing the Nautilus's commander as merely one of those unappreciated scientists
who repay humanity's indifference with contempt. For Conseil, the captain was still a misunderstood
genius who, tired of the world's deceptions, had been driven to take refuge in this inaccessible
environment where he was free to follow his instincts. But to my mind, this hypothesis explained
only one side of Captain Nemo.

In fact, the mystery of that last afternoon when we were locked in prison and put to sleep,
the captain's violent precaution of snatching from my grasp a spyglass poised to scour the
horizon, and the fatal wound given that man during some unexplained collision suffered by the
Nautilus, all led me down a plain trail.  No!  Captain Nemo wasn't content simply to avoid
humanity!  His fearsome submersible served not only his quest for freedom, but also, perhaps,
it was used in lord-knows-what schemes of dreadful revenge.

Right now, nothing is clear to me, I still glimpse only glimmers in the dark, and I must limit
my pen, as it were, to taking dictation from events.

But nothing binds us to Captain Nemo.  He believes that escaping from the Nautilus is impossible.
We are not even constrained by our word of honor.  No promises fetter us.  We're simply captives,
prisoners masquerading under the name "guests" for the sake of everyday courtesy. Even so,
Ned Land hasn't given up all hope of recovering his freedom. He's sure to take advantage of
the first chance that comes his way. No doubt I will do likewise.  And yet I will feel some
regret at making off with the Nautilus's secrets, so generously unveiled for us by Captain
Nemo!  Because, ultimately, should we detest or admire this man? Is he the persecutor or the
persecuted?  And in all honesty, before I leave him forever, I want to finish this underwater
tour of the world, whose first stages have been so magnificent. I want to observe the full
series of these wonders gathered under the seas of our globe.  I want to see what no man has
seen yet, even if I must pay for this insatiable curiosity with my life! What are my discoveries
to date?  Nothing, relatively speaking-- since so far we've covered only 6,000 leagues across
the Pacific!

Nevertheless, I'm well aware that the Nautilus is drawing near to populated shores, and if
some chance for salvation becomes available to us, it would be sheer cruelty to sacrifice my
companions to my passion for the unknown.  I must go with them, perhaps even guide them.  But
will this opportunity ever arise? The human being, robbed of his free will, craves such an
opportunity; but the scientist, forever inquisitive, dreads it.

That day, January 21, 1868, the chief officer went at noon to take the sun's altitude.  I climbed
onto the platform, lit a cigar, and watched him at work.  It seemed obvious to me that this
man didn't understand French, because I made several remarks in a loud voice that were bound
to provoke him to some involuntary show of interest had he understood them; but he remained
mute and emotionless.

While he took his sights with his sextant, one of the Nautilus's sailors-- that muscular man
who had gone with us to Crespo Island during our first underwater excursion--came up to clean
the glass panes of the beacon. I then examined the fittings of this mechanism, whose power
was increased a hundredfold by biconvex lenses that were designed like those in a lighthouse
and kept its rays productively focused. This electric lamp was so constructed as to yield its
maximum illuminating power.  In essence, its light was generated in a vacuum, insuring both
its steadiness and intensity.  Such a vacuum also reduced wear on the graphite points between
which the luminous arc expanded. This was an important savings for Captain Nemo, who couldn't
easily renew them.  But under these conditions, wear and tear were almost nonexistent.

When the Nautilus was ready to resume its underwater travels, I went below again to the lounge.
The hatches closed once more, and our course was set due west.

We then plowed the waves of the Indian Ocean, vast liquid plains with an area of 550,000,000
hectares, whose waters are so transparent it makes you dizzy to lean over their surface.  There
the Nautilus generally drifted at a depth between 100 and 200 meters. It behaved in this way
for some days.  To anyone without my grand passion for the sea, these hours would surely have
seemed long and monotonous; but my daily strolls on the platform where I was revived by the
life-giving ocean air, the sights in the rich waters beyond the lounge windows, the books to
be read in the library, and the composition of my memoirs, took up all my time and left me
without a moment of weariness or boredom.

All in all, we enjoyed a highly satisfactory state of health. The diet on board agreed with
us perfectly, and for my part, I could easily have gone without those changes of pace that
Ned Land, in a spirit of protest, kept taxing his ingenuity to supply us. What's more, in this
constant temperature we didn't even have to worry about catching colds.  Besides, the ship
had a good stock of the madrepore Dendrophylia, known in Provence by the name sea fennel, and
a poultice made from the dissolved flesh of its polyps will furnish an excellent cough medicine.

For some days we saw a large number of aquatic birds with webbed feet, known as gulls or sea
mews.  Some were skillfully slain, and when cooked in a certain fashion, they make a very acceptable
platter of water game. Among the great wind riders--carried over long distances from every
shore and resting on the waves from their exhausting flights-- I spotted some magnificent albatross,
birds belonging to the Longipennes (long-winged) family, whose discordant calls sound like
the braying of an ass.  The Totipalmes (fully webbed) family was represented by swift frigate
birds, nimbly catching fish at the surface, and by numerous tropic birds of the genus Phaeton,
among others the red-tailed tropic bird, the size of a pigeon, its white plumage shaded with
pink tints that contrasted with its dark-hued wings.

The Nautilus's nets hauled up several types of sea turtle from the hawksbill genus with arching
backs whose scales are highly prized. Diving easily, these reptiles can remain a good while
underwater by closing the fleshy valves located at the external openings of their nasal passages.
When they were captured, some hawksbills were still asleep inside their carapaces, a refuge
from other marine animals. The flesh of these turtles was nothing memorable, but their eggs
made an excellent feast.

As for fish, they always filled us with wonderment when, staring through the open panels, we
could unveil the secrets of their aquatic lives. I noted several species I hadn't previously
been able to observe.

I'll mention chiefly some trunkfish unique to the Red Sea, the sea of the East Indies, and
that part of the ocean washing the coasts of equinoctial America.  Like turtles, armadillos,
sea urchins, and crustaceans, these fish are protected by armor plate that's neither chalky
nor stony but actual bone.  Sometimes this armor takes the shape of a solid triangle, sometimes
that of a solid quadrangle. Among the triangular type, I noticed some half a decimeter long,
with brown tails, yellow fins, and wholesome, exquisitely tasty flesh; I even recommend that
they be acclimatized to fresh water, a change, incidentally, that a number of saltwater fish
can make with ease. I'll also mention some quadrangular trunkfish topped by four large protuberances
along the back; trunkfish sprinkled with white spots on the underside of the body, which make
good house pets like certain birds; boxfish armed with stings formed by extensions of their
bony crusts, and whose odd grunting has earned them the nickname "sea pigs"; then some trunkfish
known as dromedaries, with tough, leathery flesh and big conical humps.

From the daily notes kept by Mr. Conseil, I also retrieve certain fish from the genus Tetradon
unique to these seas: southern puffers with red backs and white chests distinguished by three
lengthwise rows of filaments, and jugfish, seven inches long, decked out in the brightest colors.
Then, as specimens of other genera, blowfish resembling a dark brown egg, furrowed with white
bands, and lacking tails; globefish, genuine porcupines of the sea, armed with stings and able
to inflate themselves until they look like a pin cushion bristling with needles; seahorses
common to every ocean; flying dragonfish with long snouts and highly distended pectoral fins
shaped like wings, which enable them, if not to fly, at least to spring into the air; spatula-shaped
paddlefish whose tails are covered with many scaly rings; snipefish with long jaws, excellent
animals twenty-five centimeters long and gleaming with the most cheerful colors; bluish gray
dragonets with wrinkled heads; myriads of leaping blennies with black stripes and long pectoral
fins, gliding over the surface of the water with prodigious speed; delicious sailfish that
can hoist their fins in a favorable current like so many unfurled sails; splendid nurseryfish
on which nature has lavished yellow, azure, silver, and gold; yellow mackerel with wings made
of filaments; bullheads forever spattered with mud, which make distinct hissing sounds; sea
robins whose livers are thought to be poisonous; ladyfish that can flutter their eyelids; finally,
archerfish with long, tubular snouts, real oceangoing flycatchers, armed with a rifle unforeseen
by either Remington or Chassepot: it slays insects by shooting them with a simple drop of water.

From the eighty-ninth fish genus in Lacépède's system of classification, belonging to his second
subclass of bony fish (characterized by gill covers and a bronchial membrane), I noted some
scorpionfish whose heads are adorned with stings and which have only one dorsal fin; these
animals are covered with small scales, or have none at all, depending on the subgenus to which
they belong.  The second subgenus gave us some Didactylus specimens three to four decimeters
long, streaked with yellow, their heads having a phantasmagoric appearance. As for the first
subgenus, it furnished several specimens of that bizarre fish aptly nicknamed "toadfish," whose
big head is sometimes gouged with deep cavities, sometimes swollen with protuberances; bristling
with stings and strewn with nodules, it sports hideously irregular horns; its body and tail
are adorned with callosities; its stings can inflict dangerous injuries; it's repulsive and
horrible.

From January 21 to the 23rd, the Nautilus traveled at the rate of 250 leagues in twenty-four
hours, hence 540 miles at twenty-two miles per hour.  If, during our trip, we were able to
identify these different varieties of fish, it's because they were attracted by our electric
light and tried to follow alongside; but most of them were outdistanced by our speed and soon
fell behind; temporarily, however, a few managed to keep pace in the Nautilus's waters.

On the morning of the 24th, in latitude 12 degrees 5' south and longitude 94 degrees 33', we
raised Keeling Island, a madreporic upheaving planted with magnificent coconut trees, which
had been visited by Mr. Darwin and Captain Fitzroy.  The Nautilus cruised along a short distance
off the shore of this desert island. Our dragnets brought up many specimens of polyps and echinoderms
plus some unusual shells from the branch Mollusca.  Captain Nemo's treasures were enhanced
by some valuable exhibits from the delphinula snail species, to which I joined some pointed
star coral, a sort of parasitic polypary that often attaches itself to seashells.

Soon Keeling Island disappeared below the horizon, and our course was set to the northwest,
toward the tip of the Indian peninsula.

"Civilization!"  Ned Land told me that day.  "Much better than those Papuan Islands where we
ran into more savages than venison! On this Indian shore, professor, there are roads and railways,
English, French, and Hindu villages.  We wouldn't go five miles without bumping into a fellow
countryman.  Come on now, isn't it time for our sudden departure from Captain Nemo?"

"No, no, Ned," I replied in a very firm tone.  "Let's ride it out, as you seafaring fellows
say.  The Nautilus is approaching populated areas.  It's going back toward Europe, let it take
us there. After we arrive in home waters, we can do as we see fit. Besides, I don't imagine
Captain Nemo will let us go hunting on the coasts of Malabar or Coromandel as he did in the
forests of New Guinea."

"Well, sir, can't we manage without his permission?"

I didn't answer the Canadian.  I wanted no arguments.  Deep down, I was determined to fully
exploit the good fortune that had put me on board the Nautilus.

After leaving Keeling Island, our pace got generally slower. It also got more unpredictable,
often taking us to great depths. Several times we used our slanting fins, which internal levers
could set at an oblique angle to our waterline.  Thus we went as deep as two or three kilometers
down but without ever verifying the lowest depths of this sea near India, which soundings of
13,000 meters have been unable to reach.  As for the temperature in these lower strata, the
thermometer always and invariably indicated 4 degrees centigrade. I merely observed that in
the upper layers, the water was always colder over shallows than in the open sea.

On January 25, the ocean being completely deserted, the Nautilus spent the day on the surface,
churning the waves with its powerful propeller and making them spurt to great heights.  Under
these conditions, who wouldn't have mistaken it for a gigantic cetacean?  I spent three-quarters
of the day on the platform.  I stared at the sea. Nothing on the horizon, except near four
o'clock in the afternoon a long steamer to the west, running on our opposite tack. Its masting
was visible for an instant, but it couldn't have seen the Nautilus because we were lying too
low in the water. I imagine that steamboat belonged to the Peninsular & Oriental line, which
provides service from the island of Ceylon to Sidney, also calling at King George Sound and
Melbourne.

At five o'clock in the afternoon, just before that brief twilight that links day with night
in tropical zones, Conseil and I marveled at an unusual sight.

It was a delightful animal whose discovery, according to the ancients, is a sign of good luck.
Aristotle, Athenaeus, Pliny, and Oppian studied its habits and lavished on its behalf all the
scientific poetry of Greece and Italy.  They called it "nautilus" and "pompilius." But modern
science has not endorsed these designations, and this mollusk is now known by the name argonaut.

Anyone consulting Conseil would soon learn from the gallant lad that the branch Mollusca is
divided into five classes; that the first class features the Cephalopoda (whose members are
sometimes naked, sometimes covered with a shell), which consists of two families, the Dibranchiata
and the Tetrabranchiata, which are distinguished by their number of gills; that the family
Dibranchiata includes three genera, the argonaut, the squid, and the cuttlefish, and that the
family Tetrabranchiata contains only one genus, the nautilus. After this catalog, if some recalcitrant
listener confuses the argonaut, which is acetabuliferous (in other words, a bearer of suction
tubes), with the nautilus, which is tentaculiferous (a bearer of tentacles), it will be simply
unforgivable.

Now, it was a school of argonauts then voyaging on the surface of the ocean.  We could count
several hundred of them. They belonged to that species of argonaut covered with protuberances
and exclusive to the seas near India.

These graceful mollusks were swimming backward by means of their locomotive tubes, sucking
water into these tubes and then expelling it. Six of their eight tentacles were long, thin,
and floated on the water, while the other two were rounded into palms and spread to the wind
like light sails.  I could see perfectly their undulating, spiral-shaped shells, which Cuvier
aptly compared to an elegant cockleboat.  It's an actual boat indeed. It transports the animal
that secretes it without the animal sticking to it.

"The argonaut is free to leave its shell," I told Conseil, "but it never does."

"Not unlike Captain Nemo," Conseil replied sagely.  "Which is why he should have christened
his ship the Argonaut."

For about an hour the Nautilus cruised in the midst of this school of mollusks.  Then, lord
knows why, they were gripped with a sudden fear. As if at a signal, every sail was abruptly
lowered; arms folded, bodies contracted, shells turned over by changing their center of gravity,
and the whole flotilla disappeared under the waves. It was instantaneous, and no squadron of
ships ever maneuvered with greater togetherness.

Just then night fell suddenly, and the waves barely surged in the breeze, spreading placidly
around the Nautilus's side plates.

The next day, January 26, we cut the equator on the 82nd meridian and we reentered the northern
hemisphere.

During that day a fearsome school of sharks provided us with an escort. Dreadful animals that
teem in these seas and make them extremely dangerous.  There were Port Jackson sharks with
a brown back, a whitish belly, and eleven rows of teeth, bigeye sharks with necks marked by
a large black spot encircled in white and resembling an eye, and Isabella sharks whose rounded
snouts were strewn with dark speckles. Often these powerful animals rushed at the lounge window
with a violence less than comforting.  By this point Ned Land had lost all self-control. He
wanted to rise to the surface of the waves and harpoon the monsters, especially certain smooth-hound
sharks whose mouths were paved with teeth arranged like a mosaic, and some big five-meter tiger
sharks that insisted on personally provoking him. But the Nautilus soon picked up speed and
easily left astern the fastest of these man-eaters.

On January 27, at the entrance to the huge Bay of Bengal, we repeatedly encountered a gruesome
sight:  human corpses floating on the surface of the waves!  Carried by the Ganges to the high
seas, these were deceased Indian villagers who hadn't been fully devoured by vultures, the
only morticians in these parts.  But there was no shortage of sharks to assist them with their
undertaking chores.

Near seven o'clock in the evening, the Nautilus lay half submerged, navigating in the midst
of milky white waves. As far as the eye could see, the ocean seemed lactified. Was it an effect
of the moon's rays?  No, because the new moon was barely two days old and was still lost below
the horizon in the sun's rays. The entire sky, although lit up by stellar radiation, seemed
pitch-black in comparison with the whiteness of these waters.

Conseil couldn't believe his eyes, and he questioned me about the causes of this odd phenomenon.
Luckily I was in a position to answer him.

"That's called a milk sea," I told him, "a vast expanse of white waves often seen along the
coasts of Amboina and in these waterways."

"But," Conseil asked, "could master tell me the cause of this effect, because I presume this
water hasn't really changed into milk!"

"No, my boy, and this whiteness that amazes you is merely due to the presence of myriads of
tiny creatures called infusoria, a sort of diminutive glowworm that's colorless and gelatinous
in appearance, as thick as a strand of hair, and no longer than one-fifth of a millimeter.
Some of these tiny creatures stick together over an area of several leagues."

"Several leagues!"  Conseil exclaimed.

"Yes, my boy, and don't even try to compute the number of these infusoria.  You won't pull
it off, because if I'm not mistaken, certain navigators have cruised through milk seas for
more than forty miles."

I'm not sure that Conseil heeded my recommendation, because he seemed to be deep in thought,
no doubt trying to calculate how many one-fifths of a millimeter are found in forty square
miles. As for me, I continued to observe this phenomenon.  For several hours the Nautilus's
spur sliced through these whitish waves, and I watched it glide noiselessly over this soapy
water, as if it were cruising through those foaming eddies that a bay's currents and countercurrents
sometimes leave between each other.

Near midnight the sea suddenly resumed its usual hue, but behind us all the way to the horizon,
the skies kept mirroring the whiteness of those waves and for a good while seemed imbued with
the hazy glow of an aurora borealis.

CHAPTER 2

A New Proposition from Captain Nemo

ON JANUARY 28, in latitude 9 degrees 4' north, when the Nautilus returned at noon to the surface
of the sea, it lay in sight of land some eight miles to the west.  Right off, I observed a
cluster of mountains about 2,000 feet high, whose shapes were very whimsically sculpted. After
our position fix, I reentered the lounge, and when our bearings were reported on the chart,
I saw that we were off the island of Ceylon, that pearl dangling from the lower lobe of the
Indian peninsula.

