 Her mother stooped suddenly and caught
the child in her arms.

"My poor little lamb. It was a mule's kick, just six years ago, that hurt your poor back and
made you lame."

"Never mind, my mother. My back does not ache today, and lately when the light of the strange
new star has shone down upon my bed my back has felt so much stronger and I have felt so happy,
as though I could climb upon the rays of the star and up, up into the sky and above the stars!"

Her mother shook her head sadly. "Thou art not likely to climb much, now or ever, but come,
the supper is ready; let us go to find your father. I wonder what keeps him."

They found the father standing at the gate of the courtyard, talking to a man and woman who
had just arrived. The man was tall, with a long beard, and he led by a rope a snow white mule,
on which sat the drooping figure of the woman. As Ruth and her mother came near, they heard
the father say, "But I tell thee that there is no more room in the inn. Hast thou no friends
where thou canst go to spend the night?" The man shook his head. "No, none," he answered. "I
care not for myself, but my poor wife." Little Ruth pulled at her mother's dress. "Mother,
the oxen sleep out under the stars these warm nights and the straw in the caves is clean and
warm; I have made a bed there for my little lamb."

Ruth's mother bowed before the tall man. "Thou didst hear the child. It is as she says--the
straw is clean and warm." The tall man bowed his head. "We shall be very glad to stay," and
he helped the sweet-faced woman down from the donkey's back and led her away to the cave stable,
while the little Ruth and her mother hurried up the stairs that they might send a bowl of porridge
to the sweet-faced woman, and a sup of new milk, as well.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night when little Ruth lay down in her bed, the rays of the beautiful new star shone through
the window more brightly than before. They seemed to soothe the tired aching shoulders. She
fell asleep and dreamed that the beautiful, bright star burst and out of it came countless
angels, who sang in the night:

"Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth, good will to men." And then it was morning and
her mother was bending over her and saying, "Awake, awake, little Ruth. Mother has something
to tell thee." Then as the eyes opened slowly--"The angels came in the night, little one, and
left a Baby to lay beside your little white lamb in the manger."

       *       *       *       *       *

That afternoon, Ruth went with her mother to the fountain. The mother turned aside to talk
to the other women of the town about the strange things heard and seen the night before, but
Ruth went on and sat down by the edge of the fountain. The child, was not frightened, for strangers
came often to the well, but never had she seen men who looked like the three who now came towards
her. The first one, a tall man with a long white beard, came close to Ruth and said, "Canst
tell us, child, where is born he that is called the King of the Jews?"

"I know of no king," she answered, "but last night while the star was shining, the angels brought
a baby to lie beside my white lamb in the manger." The stranger bowed his head. "That must
be he. Wilt thou show us the way to Him, my child?" So Ruth ran and her mother led the three
men to the cave and "when they saw the Child, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy, and opening
their gifts, they presented unto Him gold, and frankincense and myrrh," with wonderful jewels,
so that Ruth's mother's eyes shone with wonder, but little Ruth saw only the Baby, which lay
asleep on its mother's breast.

"If only I might hold Him in my arms," she thought, but was afraid to ask.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a few days, the strangers left Bethlehem, all but the three--the man, whose name was
Joseph, and Mary, his wife, and the Baby. Then, as of old, little Ruth played about the courtyard
and the white lamb frolicked at her side. Often she dropped to her knees to press the little
woolly white head against her breast, while she murmured: "My little lamb, my very, very own.
I love you, lambie," and then together they would steal over to the entrance of the cave to
peep in at the Baby, and always she thought, "If I only might touch his hand," but was afraid
to ask. One night as she lay in her bed, she thought to herself: "Oh, I wish I had a beautiful
gift for him, such as the wise men brought, but I have nothing at all to offer and I love him
so much." Just then the light of the star, which was nightly fading, fell across the foot of
the bed and shone full upon the white lamb which lay asleep at her feet--and then she thought
of something. The next morning she arose with her face shining with joy. She dressed carefully
and with the white lamb held close to her breast, went slowly and painfully down the stairway
and over to the door of the cave. "I have come," she said, "to worship Him, and I have brought
Him--my white lamb." The mother smiled at the lame child, then she lifted the Baby from her
breast and placed Him in the arms of the little maid who knelt at her feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few days after, an angel came to the father, Joseph, and told him to take the Baby and hurry
to the land of Egypt, for the wicked King wanted to do it harm, and so these three--the father,
mother and Baby--went by night to the far country of Egypt. And the star grew dimmer and dimmer
and passed away forever from the skies over Bethlehem, but little Ruth grew straight and strong
and beautiful as the almond trees in the orchard, and all the people who saw her were amazed,
for Ruth was once a cripple.

"It was the light of the strange star," her mother said, but little Ruth knew it was the touch
of the blessed Christ-Child, who was once folded against her heart.

[*] Used by permission of the author and the publishers, Henry Altemus Company.