Meanwhile the Athenians in the hundred vessels were still cruising round Peloponnese. After
taking Sollium, a town belonging to Corinth, and presenting the city and territory to the Acarnanians
of Palaira, they stormed Astacus, expelled its tyrant Evarchus, and gained the place for their
confederacy. Next they sailed to the island of Cephallenia and brought it over without using
force. Cephallenia lies off Acarnania and Leucas, and consists of four states, the Paleans,
Cranians, Samaeans, and Pronaeans. Not long afterwards the fleet returned to Athens. Towards
the autumn of this year the Athenians invaded the Megarid with their whole levy, resident aliens
included, under the command of Pericles, son of Xanthippus. The Athenians in the hundred ships
round Peloponnese on their journey home had just reached Aegina, and hearing that the citizens
at home were in full force at Megara, now sailed over and joined them. This was without doubt
the largest army of Athenians ever assembled, the state being still in the flower of her strength
and yet unvisited by the plague. Full ten thousand heavy infantry were in the field, all Athenian
citizens, besides the three thousand before Potidaea. Then the resident aliens who joined in
the incursion were at least three thousand strong; besides which there was a multitude of light
troops. They ravaged the greater part of the territory, and then retired. Other incursions
into the Megarid were afterwards made by the Athenians annually during the war, sometimes only
with cavalry, sometimes with all their forces. This went on until the capture of Nisaea. Atalanta
also, the desert island off the Opuntian coast, was towards the end of this summer converted
into a fortified post by the Athenians, in order to prevent privateers issuing from Opus and
the rest of Locris and plundering Euboea. Such were the events of this summer after the return
of the Peloponnesians from Attica.

In the ensuing winter the Acarnanian Evarchus, wishing to return to Astacus, persuaded the
Corinthians to sail over with forty ships and fifteen hundred heavy infantry and restore him;
himself also hiring some mercenaries. In command of the force were Euphamidas, son of Aristonymus,
Timoxenus, son of Timocrates, and Eumachus, son of Chrysis, who sailed over and restored him
and, after failing in an attempt on some places on the Acarnanian coast which they were desirous
of gaining, began their voyage home. Coasting along shore they touched at Cephallenia and made
a descent on the Cranian territory, and losing some men by the treachery of the Cranians, who
fell suddenly upon them after having agreed to treat, put to sea somewhat hurriedly and returned
home.

In the same winter the Athenians gave a funeral at the public cost to those who had first fallen
in this war. It was a custom of their ancestors, and the manner of it is as follows. Three
days before the ceremony, the bones of the dead are laid out in a tent which has been erected;
and their friends bring to their relatives such offerings as they please. In the funeral procession
cypress coffins are borne in cars, one for each tribe; the bones of the deceased being placed
in the coffin of their tribe. Among these is carried one empty bier decked for the missing,
that is, for those whose bodies could not be recovered. Any citizen or stranger who pleases,
joins in the procession: and the female relatives are there to wail at the burial. The dead
are laid in the public sepulchre in the Beautiful suburb of the city, in which those who fall
in war are always buried; with the exception of those slain at Marathon, who for their singular
and extraordinary valour were interred on the spot where they fell. After the bodies have been
laid in the earth, a man chosen by the state, of approved wisdom and eminent reputation, pronounces
over them an appropriate panegyric; after which all retire. Such is the manner of the burying;
and throughout the whole of the war, whenever the occasion arose, the established custom was
observed. Meanwhile these were the first that had fallen, and Pericles, son of Xanthippus,
was chosen to pronounce their eulogium. When the proper time arrived, he advanced from the
sepulchre to an elevated platform in order to be heard by as many of the crowd as possible,
and spoke as follows:

"Most of my predecessors in this place have commended him who made this speech part of the
law, telling us that it is well that it should be delivered at the burial of those who fall
in battle. For myself, I should have thought that the worth which had displayed itself in deeds
would be sufficiently rewarded by honours also shown by deeds; such as you now see in this
funeral prepared at the people's cost. And I could have wished that the reputations of many
brave men were not to be imperilled in the mouth of a single individual, to stand or fall according
as he spoke well or ill. For it is hard to speak properly upon a subject where it is even difficult
to convince your hearers that you are speaking the truth. On the one hand, the friend who is
familiar with every fact of the story may think that some point has not been set forth with
that fullness which he wishes and knows it to deserve; on the other, he who is a stranger to
the matter may be led by envy to suspect exaggeration if he hears anything above his own nature.
For men can endure to hear others praised only so long as they can severally persuade themselves
of their own ability to equal the actions recounted: when this point is passed, envy comes
in and with it incredulity. However, since our ancestors have stamped this custom with their
approval, it becomes my duty to obey the law and to try to satisfy your several wishes and
opinions as best I may.

"I shall begin with our ancestors: it is both just and proper that they should have the honour
of the first mention on an occasion like the present. They dwelt in the country without break
in the succession from generation to generation, and handed it down free to the present time
by their valour. And if our more remote ancestors deserve praise, much more do our own fathers,
who added to their inheritance the empire which we now possess, and spared no pains to be able
to leave their acquisitions to us of the present generation. Lastly, there are few parts of
our dominions that have not been augmented by those of us here, who are still more or less
in the vigour of life; while the mother country has been furnished by us with everything that
can enable her to depend on her own resources whether for war or for peace. That part of our
history which tells of the military achievements which gave us our several possessions, or
of the ready valour with which either we or our fathers stemmed the tide of Hellenic or foreign
aggression, is a theme too familiar to my hearers for me to dilate on, and I shall therefore
pass it by. But what was the road by which we reached our position, what the form of government
under which our greatness grew, what the national habits out of which it sprang; these are
questions which I may try to solve before I proceed to my panegyric upon these men; since I
think this to be a subject upon which on the present occasion a speaker may properly dwell,
and to which the whole assemblage, whether citizens or foreigners, may listen with advantage.

"Our constitution does not copy the laws of neighbouring states; we are rather a pattern to
others than imitators ourselves. Its administration favours the many instead of the few; this
is why it is called a democracy. If we look to the laws, they afford equal justice to all in
their private differences; if no social standing, advancement in public life falls to reputation
for capacity, class considerations not being allowed to interfere with merit; nor again does
poverty bar the way, if a man is able to serve the state, he is not hindered by the obscurity
of his condition. The freedom which we enjoy in our government extends also to our ordinary
life. There, far from exercising a jealous surveillance over each other, we do not feel called
upon to be angry with our neighbour for doing what he likes, or even to indulge in those injurious
looks which cannot fail to be offensive, although they inflict no positive penalty. But all
this ease in our private relations does not make us lawless as citizens. Against this fear
is our chief safeguard, teaching us to obey the magistrates and the laws, particularly such
as regard the protection of the injured, whether they are actually on the statute book, or
belong to that code which, although unwritten, yet cannot be broken without acknowledged disgrace.

"Further, we provide plenty of means for the mind to refresh itself from business. We celebrate
games and sacrifices all the year round, and the elegance of our private establishments forms
a daily source of pleasure and helps to banish the spleen; while the magnitude of our city
draws the produce of the world into our harbour, so that to the Athenian the fruits of other
countries are as familiar a luxury as those of his own.

"If we turn to our military policy, there also we differ from our antagonists. We throw open
our city to the world, and never by alien acts exclude foreigners from any opportunity of learning
or observing, although the eyes of an enemy may occasionally profit by our liberality; trusting
less in system and policy than to the native spirit of our citizens; while in education, where
our rivals from their very cradles by a painful discipline seek after manliness, at Athens
we live exactly as we please, and yet are just as ready to encounter every legitimate danger.
In proof of this it may be noticed that the Lacedaemonians do not invade our country alone,
but bring with them all their confederates; while we Athenians advance unsupported into the
territory of a neighbour, and fighting upon a foreign soil usually vanquish with ease men who
are defending their homes. Our united force was never yet encountered by any enemy, because
we have at once to attend to our marine and to dispatch our citizens by land upon a hundred
different services; so that, wherever they engage with some such fraction of our strength,
a success against a detachment is magnified into a victory over the nation, and a defeat into
a reverse suffered at the hands of our entire people. And yet if with habits not of labour
but of ease, and courage not of art but of nature, we are still willing to encounter danger,
we have the double advantage of escaping the experience of hardships in anticipation and of
facing them in the hour of need as fearlessly as those who are never free from them.

