'It is equally impossible that I should have wished to offend this assembly. It contains men
by whose sides I have fought the great battles of property and law. I love many of its members.
I respect almost all. If I have offended any, it was done unconsciously. Again, it is said
that the tone of my letter is violent. Expressions may be called violent by some which would
be only called passionnés by others. Now I admit that I am passionné. It is in my nature. I
owe to that quality much of my merit, whatever that merit may be. Were I not passionné, I should
not have been, during all my life, la sentinelle perdue de la liberté. I should not have thrown
myself into every breach: sometimes braving the attacks of anarchy, sometimes heading the assault
on tyranny, and sometimes fighting against the worst of all despotisms, the despotism that
is based on democracy.'

['Allons plus au fond, et vous reconnaîtrez que les opinions énoncées dans la lettre ne sont
autres que celles toujours professées par moi. Elles peuvent toutes se ramener à une seule,
à mon éloignement pour le pouvoir absolu. Je ne l'aime pas: je ne l'ai jamais aimé. Si j'ai
tant combattu l'anarchie avant et après 1848, si j'ai suscité contre moi dans le parti démagogique
ces haines virulentes qui durent encore et qui ne perdent jamais une occasion d'éclater contre
moi, c'est parce que j'ai compris de bonne heure les affinités naturelles du despotisme et
de la démocratie; c'est parce que j'ai prévu et prédit que la démocratie nous conduirait au
pouvoir absolu. Oui, je crois, comme je l'ai dit, que le despotisme abaisse les caractères,
les intelligences, les consciences. Oui, je déplore le système qui rend un seul homme tout-puissant
et seul responsable des destinées d'une nation de 36 millions d'hommes; et trouve que cela
ressemble trop au gouvernement russe, contre lequel nous allons en guerre, et trop peu au gouvernement
anglais, dont nous prisons si haut l'alliance.']

'I am told again, and the accusation is sanctioned by the réquisitoire of the Procureur-Général,
that my letter is inconsistent with the fidelity which I have sworn to the Emperor and to the
constitution. When a man swears fidelity to a sovereign and to a constitution, his oath engages
him only as to matters within his own power. He swears not to conspire against them. He swears
not to attempt to subvert them. He cannot swear to approve the acts of the sovereign, or the
working of the constitution, for he cannot foresee what either of them will be. I have kept,
and I shall keep, my oath to the Emperor and my oath to the constitution. I have not attempted,
and I shall not attempt, to overthrow either of them. But my approbation of either of them
does not depend on me. I accepted the coup d'état, comme vous l'avez tous fait, comme notre
seule chance de salut dans les circonstances d'alors. I expected a Government honnête et modéré.
I have been disappointed.'

Here a violent exclamation ran through the assembly. Baroche rose and cried out, 'You hear
him, gentlemen. He says that he expected honesty and moderation from the Government, and that
he has been disappointed. I appeal to you, Mr. President, to decide whether we are to sit and
listen to such infamies.'

[Voix diverses:--'Expliquez vos paroles.' 'Retirez vos paroles.' M. de Montalembert.--'Je les
maintiens et je les explique.']

'I expected un gouvernement honnête et modéré. I have been disappointed. Its honnêté may be
judged by the confiscation of the Orleans property.'

Here was another hubbub, and another protest of Baroche's.

