PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOLUME 104, APRIL 29TH 1893

edited by Sir Francis Burnand

       *       *       *       *       *

STRAY THOUGHTS ON PLAY-WRITING.

From the Common-place Book of The O'Wilde.--The play? Oh, the play be zephyr'd! The play is
not the thing. In other words, the play is nothing. Point is to prepare immense assortment
of entirely irrelevant epigrams. "Epigram, my dear Duke, is the refuge of the dullard, who
imagines that he obtains truth by inverting a truism." That sounds well; must lay it by for
use. Take "Virtue," for instance. "Virtue" offers a fine field for paradox, brought strictly
up to date. Must jot down stray thoughts. (Good idea in the expression "Stray Thoughts." Will
think over it, and work it up either for impromptu or future play.) Here are a few examples:--

(1) Be virtuous, and you will be a County Councillor.

(2) Nothing is so dull as a life of virtue--except a career of vice.

(3) "Virtue, my dear Lady CHILLINGHAM, is the weakness of the masses, acting under the force
of their circumstances."

(4) Virtue, no doubt, is a necessity; but, to be necessary, is the first step to abolition.

(5) If you wish to become virtuous, you have only to be found out.

(6) There is nothing a man resents so much as the imputation of virtue.

(7) Virtue, my dear HORACE, is a quality we inculcate upon our wives mainly by a lack of example.

(8) I want to be rich merely in order to have the chance of overcoming the difficulties in
the way of being virtuous. Virtue on a pound a week is so easy as to repel all but the indolent
and worthless.

So much for Virtue. Repentance may be treated according to the same formula.

(1) My dear boy, never repent. Repentance leads inevitably to repetition.

(2) Repentance is like a secret. If you keep it to yourself it loses all interest. Nobody can
repent on a desert island.

(3) To repent is to have been unsuccessful.

(4) Not to be repentant is never to have enjoyed.

(5) Repentance in a man means nothing more than an intention to change his methods; in a woman
it is a last tribute to an expiring reputation.

Having finished these examples, I will put down a few notions for general use.

(1) Necessity knows no law, and therefore has to learn.

(2) Everything comes to the man who is waited upon.

(3) The later the bird the better for the worm.

(4) It is never too late to--dine.

There you have the whole secret. Be fearfully cynical, dreadfully bold, delightfully wicked,
and carefully unconventional; let paradox and epigram flow in copious streams from your pen.
Throw in a few aristocrats with a plentiful flavouring of vices novelistically associated with
wicked Baronets. Add an occasional smoking-room-- (Mem. "Everything ends in smoke, my dear
boy, except the cigars of our host." Use this when host is a parvenu unacquainted with the
mysteries of brands)--shred into the mixture a wronged woman, a dull wife, and, if possible,
one well tried and tested "situation," then set the whole to simmer for three hours at the
Haymarket. The result will be---- But to predict a result is to prophesy, and to prophesy is
to know. (N.B.--Work up this rough material. It will come right, and sound well when polished up.)

       *       *       *       *       *

BY GEORGE!

A Correspondent of the Daily Telegraph suggests that, as the Scotch keep up St. Andrew's Day,
and the Irish St. Patrick's, the English should also have a national fête on St. George's Day,
the 23rd of April. Why not have the 23rd as St. George's Day, and the 24th as the Dragon's
Day? We ought to "Remember the Dragon"--say, by depositing wreaths before the Temple Bar specimen.
A Dragon's Day would be a most useful National Institution. The object would not be to exalt
the beast, but to celebrate our own (and GEORGE'S) triumph over it. Everybody has his own private
Dragon, and some people have public ones as well. For example, Sir WILFRED LAWSON, in laying
down his wreath, would be commemorating the introduction of the Veto Bill; Mr. GLADSTONE would
be slaying (in spirit) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Lords, who is evidently
the "Dragon of the Prime (Minister)" referred to by TENNYSON; Lord CRANBORNE would be Mr. DAVITT'S
Dragon, and so on. The fun would be that nobody would be expected to say what Dragon he meant.
If a law were passed establishing such a festivity, perhaps it would be denounced as "too Dragonic"!

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Poet WILLIAM WATSON'S Excursions in Criticism are cheap Excursions. He himself describes them
as "Prose Recreations of a Rhymer." "Prosy" would have been the truer epithet. The meeting
of an Interviewer with Dr. JOHNSON is the best, and it is also the last. Poet WATSON'S criticism
of Tess of the D'Urbevilles, his Essay on IBSEN'S Plays, and another on GEORGE MEREDITH, may
have been recreations to the writer, but, like most of the other papers in this volume, they
will never be so considered by the lightheaded and unbiassed reader. What is recreation to
WILLIAM WATSON is boredom to the Baron, and, as the latter is inclined to think, to the majority
of such of the public as may attempt the perusal of W. W.'s recreations. Let W. W. make no
more cheap excursions in criticism,--excepting, of course, for his own private amusement, with
which no one has a right to interfere,--but let him "thank the gods he is poetical," and so
let him remain. His second best Essay, is on The Punishment of Genius, in which he advocates
the post-mortem destruction of every scrap of composition, which its author had never intended
for the public eye.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We've had no rain to speak of for some weeks," observed Mrs. R.; "and, if this goes on, I
heard some scientific gentlemen say, the other day, we ought to have the land irritated by hydras."

       *       *       *       *       *

MELANCHOLIA.

(Modern French Version: After the celebrated Picture "Melencolia" by Albert Dürer.)

  An enigmatic picture! Yet, indeed,
  In current Gallic light not hard to read.
  Woman, with angel-wings, and mournful face,
  What are the plans those listless fingers trace?
  What are the visions those fixed eyes survey?
  The War-dog fierce lies couchant in your way.
  The instruments of Art are scattered round.
  Mistress of charm in form, in tint, in sound,
  Of engineering might, mechanic skill,
  That checks your genius, and what thwarts your will?
  Winged Wit is at your side, your cherished guest,
  Who quits you never on an alien quest.
  But what that mystic prism shadows forth
  Hath menace which auxiliar from the North
  May scarce avert. The scales of Justice tilt
  Something askew. The curse of high-placed guilt
  Is on you, if the warning tocsin's knell,
  Clanging forth fiercely, hath not force to tell
  The hearer that Fate's hourglass fast runs out.
  That spectral Comet flames, beset about
  With miasmatic mist, and lurid fume,
  Conquering Corruption threatens hideous doom.
  Yet, yet the Bow of Promise gleams above,
  Herald of Hope to her whom all men mark and love!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CREDIT WITHOUT CASH.

The Hon. CROESUS CASH was greatly annoyed that so many people should have been admitted to
his library. He bitterly reproached his valet for this dereliction of duty.

"Beg your pardon, Sir," said his servant, "but they would come in. They said they must see
you--that their lives depended on it."

"What have I to do with their lives?" growled the Hon. CROESUS. And then he added, as he entered
his sanctum, "Now, Ladies and Gentlemen, what do you want? My time's precious, and I can't
waste it upon strangers."

"My dear Sir, my very dear Sir," cried in trembling accents an old parson in a thread-bare
coat, "I have a wife and family, and we are really starving."

"Ditto, Sir, ditto!" observed an elderly soldier who had evidently been an officer.

"And I am a widow, and must bring my poor children home from school, as I can no longer afford
the expense of their education," so said an elderly dame in shabby mourning.

"But how can I help you?" asked the Hon. CROESUS. "What has brought you to this pass?"

"Why, you, Sir," returned the ex-officer. "You, Sir!"

"Come," said the Hon. CROESUS, waxing angry, "I advise you to be careful of the provisions
of the Libel and Slander Act. You accuse me of bringing you to poverty! Why, I have never seen
any of you in my life--never even heard of you!"

"But we have heard of you," they cried. "Yes, we have."

"We are all shareholders in the Bubble Babble Syndicate, Limited," explained the parson, tearfully,
"and we have consequently lost every thing we had in the world."

"But what have I to do with it?" again asked the Hon. CROESUS. "Very sorry to hear of your
misfortunes, but I don't see how I come in."

"Why you, Sir," exclaimed the ex-officer; "you, Sir, were one of the officials!"

"Pardon me, Sir, I was nothing of the sort. I have nothing whatever to do with the Syndicate.
I was merely a Director."

And when the defrauded shareholders found out that he was only that, they went away complaining,
but convinced they would be afforded by him no relief. And they were right, for the Hon. CROESUS
(who was old-fashioned in his ways) acted strictly according to precedent.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRIVATE VIEW.

(By a Visitor, Small but not Early.)

  Irony about this View
  Is, I fear, more true than new,
    Still the crowd's a great 'un;
  Heads and bodies hide from me
  Pictures that I wish to see;
    Smooth, fair maids by LEIGHTON;

  If I seek a work by WELLS,
  Can I see through beaux and belles?
    I can but survey 'em.
  Hid the masterpiece of BROCK
  By some girl's wide-shouldered frock,
    So the bulls of GRAHAM.

  If my eyes seek breezy HOOKS,
  Hooks and eyes obstruct my looks;
    Pity me, dear reader!
  Cobalt Cornish seas by BRETT
  Hid by chignons in a net,
    Likewise views by LEADER!

  See, instead of groups by CROWE,
  Coats, black like him, in a row;
    Also, quite as thick, see
  Backs, not sculptured ones by BATES,
  Hide the pretty pinkish pates
    Done to death by DICKSEE!

  If I strive to see a SANT,
  My large neighbours make me pant,
    For they push so coarsely;
  Or the evergreens of STONE,
  Then they nip my funnybone;
    And I lose what HORSLEY

  Drapes so decently--the MARKS
  Are on me; these tall young sparks
    Squeeze enough to kill a
  Little man, who sees no WATTS
  Past their lofty chimney-pots,
    Nor a single MILLAIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOOD START FOR THE ACADEMICAL YEAR.--Mr. STANHOPE FORBES, A.R.A., is a clever Painter, as everyone
knows, but he is cleverer than was thought, as he has sold his Academy Picture to the Manchester
Corporation for 1,200 guineas. STANHOPE FORBES will change his name to STAN'UP-FOR-YOUR-PRICE
FORBES, A.R.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM ONE OF THE WISE MEN IN THE EAST.--A traveller, doing a walking tour in Egypt, from Cairo
and back again, describes himself as a "Cairopedist," and adds that it's just the place for
Members of that profession to prosper, as "Corn in Egypt" is proverbial.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PREMIER AT THE HAYMARKET LAST WEDNESDAY.--This does not mean that Mr. GLADSTONE visited
this theatre, but simply that Mr. TREE produced a new piece, written by the O'WILDE. "Whatever
be its merit or want of merit," says JOSEPH MILLER, Q.C., "WILDE can't be tame."

       *       *       *       *       *

A LIEN ON THE LEA.

AIR--"The Bells of Shandon."

    ["Mr. PEMBER, Q.C., before the Committee of the County Council
    General Powers Bill, put in a claim, on behalf of the New
    River and other Companies, that the water of the River Lea is
    the absolute property of the Companies!"

    Daily Chronicle.]

  Is it, by thunder?
  With solemn wonder
  I'll often think of
    That sounding claim;
  And oft remember
  How Mister PEMBER
  (He's a "hot member"!)
    Put in the same.

  On this I ponder:
  Where'er I wander,
  "From here to yonder,"
    I'm sure to see,
  Whate'er I stand on,
  Wealth lays its hand on,
  As on the water
    Of the River Lea.

  I've had one mouthful.
  But, though of drouth full,
  I trust I'll never
    Another swallow.
  I've tried the tide
  Of Thames, Medway, Clyde,
  But unstrained Lea-water,
    It licks 'em hollow.

  I know that river
  Set me a-shiver,
  Upset my liver,
    And made me ill,
  When, on it punting,
  Some cads, sport-hunting,
  Driving into me,
    Gave me a spill.

  My memory, dwelling
  On that ill-smelling
  And muddy throatful
    Revolts. Ah me!
  That awful vision!
  That dread collision
  With the rowdy boatful
    On the River Lea!

  But, goodness gracious!
  If river spacious
  By Co.'s owdacious,
    Can thus be claimed,
  I have a notion
  The wide blue ocean
  As "absolute property"
    May soon be named.

  Who need be caring
  For the Sea of Behring?
  We shall have them sharing
    The broad Atlantic.
  Whilst the Bay of Biscay
  (Like a keg of whiskey)
  Will be shared and lotted
    By financiers frantic!

  O sublime monopolist,
  You're truly top o' list!
  Where will you stop? Oh, list,
    One word from me!
  Too big claims abandon.
  You may lay your hand on
  The unpleasant waters
    Of the muddy Lea,

  But in every quarter
  Of Earth, Air, Water,
  If too strong you "come it"
    (As you seem inclined),
  There will be a shindy;
  And you'll find it--windy
  Upon "Proputty's" summit,
    If you do not mind.

  On that peak you'd plant 'em,
  Your claws, bold Bantam,
  But I spy a phantom
    Which you may not see,
  Which may scare you slightly,
  Should you grip too tightly
  The unpleasant waters
    Of the River Lea!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TOO BAD TO BE TRUE.

At a meeting of the London Diocesan Conference, a Reverend gentleman is reported to have declared
his belief that, "for one man drawn from the Public-house by the opening of the Museums on
Sunday, there were ten persons drawn from their attendance at Church!" Mr. Punch fancies these
are rather supposititious statistics. Does the Reverend gentleman quite see what his hasty
statement involves? How slight must be the attractions of Church--his Church at least--to a
large proportion even of those who do now attend? Rivalry between Museum and Gin-palace one
can contemplate hopefully. But if the real rivalry is to be between Museum and Church, with
such results as this rather pessimistic parson predicts, the look-out seems rather dismal--for
the Church! Surely this is the highest compliment to secular attractions ever paid by a cleric!
Mr. Punch hopes--and believes--it is as ill-deserved as high.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPORTING ANSWERS.

POULTRY.

QUACK.--The game of Ducks and Drakes was played originally by NOAH, after the subsidence of
the Flood. We hear of it again in the Chronicles of CORNELIUS LONGIBOVUS MENDAX, who relates
that it solaced the last hours of ARTAXERXES when he lay on his death-bed in the desert of
Sahara, and called in vain for his third wife, PSAMMETICA, who was at that moment gathering
mushrooms in the garden of the Royal Palace at Persepolis.

