Let us deal, then, first with the finally less important and more formal portion of the third
stage in the educational process; that is to say, with the University Course. One may conceive
that so far as positive teaching and learning go, a considerable proportion of the population
will never pass beyond the second stage at all. They will fail to keep up in the course of
that stage, or they will branch off into the special development of some special aptitude.
The failures will gravitate into positions a little better perhaps, but analogous to those
taken up by the failures of the Schooling phase. The common clerks and common shop-hands, for
example, would come out here. The others, who fall out without completing their College course,
but who may not be College failures at all, will be all sorts of artists and specializing persons
of that type. A great many girls, for economic and other reasons, will probably never get beyond
the College stage. They will pass from the Biological and Historical courses into employment,
or marry, or enter domestic life. But what may finally become a much larger proportion of New
Republican citizens will either from the beginning, taking the College course in the evening,
or after a year or so of full attendance at the College course, start also upon the third-
grade work, the preparation for the upper ranks of some technical and commercial employment,
for the systematic and liberal instruction that will replace the old rule-of-thumb apprenticeship.
One can imagine a great variety of methods of combining the apprenticeship phase of serious
occupation with the College course. Many waking up to the demands of life may do better for
themselves with a desperately clutched College course of evening classes than others who will
have progressed comfortably in day Colleges. There should be opportunity by means of scholarship
openings for such cases of a late awakening to struggle back into the higher education. There
may be every gradation from such students to those who will go completely and exhaustively
through the College and who will then go on at one and twenty or two and twenty to equally
complete and exhaustive work in the third grade. One imagines the third grade in its completeness
as a most varied choice of thorough studies carried on for three or four years after eighteen
or twenty-one, special schools of medicine, law, engineering, psychology, and educational science,
economics and political science, economics and commercial science, philosophy and theology,
and physical science. Quite apart from the obvious personal limitation, the discussion of the
method of dealing specifically with each of these subjects would be too diversified and special
a theme to occupy me now. The larger fact to which attention has to be given is this: that
all these studies and all the technical study and such like preparation at lower levels of
the third stage must be as it were floating in a common body of Thought, which is the unifying
principle, the common initiative, the real common life of the truly civilized state, and that
this body of Thought is no longer to be contained within the form of a University. It is the
larger of the two things. And the last question, therefore, in these speculations is the general
organization of that body of Thought, that is to say of contemporary literature, using the
word in its widest sense to cover all that is good in journalism, all untechnical speculative,
philosophical writing, all that is true and new in the drama, in poetry, fiction or any other
distinctly literary form, and all scientific publication that is not purely a matter of recording
or technical working out, all scientific publication that is, that deals with general ideas.

There was a time when the higher education was conceived of as entirely a matter of learning.
To endow chairs and teachers, and to enable promising scholars to come and hear the latter
was the complete organization of the higher education. It is within quite recent years that
the conception of endowing research for its own sake, leaving the Research Professor free altogether
from direct teaching or with only a few good pupils whose work consisted chiefly in assimilating
his ideas and helping with his researches, has become at all widely acceptable. Indirectly,
of course, the Research Professor is just as much a teacher as the Teaching Professor, because
his results become accessible as he writes them. Our work now is to broaden both the conception
of research and of teaching, to recognize that whatever imports fresh and valid ideas, fresh
and valid aspects--not simply of chemical and physical matters, but of aesthetic, social, and
political matters, partakes of the honour and claims of research--and that whatever conveys
ideas and aspects vividly and clearly and invigoratingly, not simply by word of mouth but by
book or picture or article, is teaching. The publication of books, the whole business of bringing
the contemporary book most efficiently home to the general reader, the business of contemporary
criticism, the encouragement and support of contemporary writers, is just as vitally important
in the modern state as the organisation of Colleges and Schools, and just as little to be left
to the enterprise of isolated individuals working primarily upon commercial lines for gain.

There are two aspects of this question. There is the simpler one of getting an abundance of
good books, classical and contemporary, and of good publications distributed everywhere through
the English-speaking world, and there is the more subtle and complex problem of getting, stimulating,
and sustaining the original writers and the original critics and investigators upon whom the
general development of contemporary thought, upon whom indeed the progress of the world finally
depends. The latter problem may be reserved for the next paper, and here we will deal simply
with the question of access and distribution.

For the present we must assume the quality of the books; all that sort of question must be
deferred for our final discussion. We will simply speak of good books, serious books, on the
one hand, and of light and merely amusing books on the other, in an intentionally vague way.
The former sort of books is our present concern; pleasure as an end, pleasure except as necessary
recuperation, is no affair for the state.

Books are either bought or borrowed for reading, and we have to consider what can be done to
secure the utmost efficiency in the announcement, lending and selling of books. We have also
to consider the best possible means of distributing periodicals. We have particularly to consider
how books specifically "good," or "thorough," or "serious," and periodicals that are "sound"
and "stimulating" are to be made as widely and invitingly accessible as possible. The machinery
we have in hand are the booksellers and the newsvendors, the circulating libraries, the post-office,
and the free public libraries that are now being energetically spread throughout the land [by
men who, in this aspect, answer very closely to the conception of New Republicans as it is
here unfolded], and to bring and keep all this machinery to the very highest level of efficiency
is integral to the New Republican scheme of activity.

It may be objected that the organization of bookselling and publishing is the discussion of
trivial details in the intellectual life of a people, but indeed that is not so. It is a constant
trouble, a perpetual drain upon the time and energy of every man who participates in that life,
to get the books that are necessary to the development of his thoughts. The high price of books,
burthensome as it is, is the lesser evil, the great trouble is the trouble of access. There
are a great number of people now who read nothing at all, or only promiscuous fiction, who
would certainly become real readers were books of any other sort attractively available. These
things are not trivial. The question of book distribution is as vitally important to the intellectual
health of a modern people as are open windows in cases of phthisis. No nation can live under
modern conditions unless its whole population is mentally aerated with books.

That allusion to the predominance of fiction brings one round to the question of the Public
Library. One is constantly reading attacks on these new and most promising institutions, and
always these attacks base themselves on the fact that the number of novels taken out was so
many times, so many hundred times greater than the number of "serious books." Follows nonsense
about "scrappy" reading, shallowness of the public mind, and so forth. In Great Britain public
pomposities take up the strain and deliver large vague, foolish discourses on our intellectual
decline. It occurs to none of these people--nothing, indeed, ever does seem to occur to this
sort of people--to inquire if a man or woman can get serious reading from a public library.
An inspection of a Public Library Catalogue reveals, no doubt, a certain proportion of "serious"
books available, but, as a rule, that "serious side" is a quite higgledy-piggledy heap of fragments.
Suppose, for example, an intelligent mechanic has a proclivity for economic questions, he will
find no book whatever to guide him to what literature there may be upon those questions. He
will plunge into the catalogue, and discover perhaps a few publications of the Cobden Club,
Henry George's Progress and Poverty, J. S. Mill's Autobiography, Ruskin's Unto This Last, The
Statesman's Year Book for 1895, and a text-book specially adapted to such and such an examination
by the tutors of some Correspondence College. What can you expect from such a supply but a
pitiful mental hash? What is the most intelligent of mechanics likely to secure for himself
from this bran pie? Serious subjects are not to be read in this wild disorderly way. But fiction
can be. A novel is fairly complete in itself, and in sticking to novels, the Public Library
readers show, I submit, a better literary sense and a finer intellectual feeling than the muddle-headed,
review-inspired, pretentious people who blame them.

But manifestly the Public Libraries ought to be equipped for serious reading. Too many of them
are covers without meat, or, at least, with nothing to satisfy a respectable mind hunger. And
the obvious direct method to equip them is to organize an Association, to work, if possible,
with the Librarians, and get this "serious" side of the Libraries, this vitally important side,
into better order. A few men with a little money to spend could do what is wanted for the whole
English-speaking world. The first business of such an Association would be to get "Guides"
to various fields of human interest written, guides that should be clear, explicit Bibliographies,
putting all the various writers into their relationships one to another, advising what books
should be first taken by the beginner in the field, indicating their trend, pointing out the
less technical ones and those written obscurely. Differential type might stamp the more or
less important works. These Guides ought to go to every Public Library, and I think also that
all sorts of people would be eager to buy them if they were known to be comprehensive, intelligent,
and inclusive. They might even "pay." Then I would suggest this Association should make up
lists of books to present an outline course or a full course corresponding to each Guide. Where
books were already published in a cheap edition, the Association would merely negotiate with
the publisher for the special supply of a few thousand copies of each. Where books were modern
and dear the Association would negotiate with publisher and author, for the printing of a special
Public Library Edition. They would then distribute these sets of books either freely or at
special rates, three or four sets or more to each Library. In many cases the Association would
probably find it preferable to print its editions afresh, with specially written introductions,
defining the relationship of each book to the general literature of the subject. [Footnote:
In America Mr. George Iles is already organizing the general appraisement of books for the
public library reader in a most promising manner. The Bibliography of the Literature of American
History, with an appraisal of each book, which has appeared under his direction, is edited
by Mr. Larned, and is a most efficient performance; it is to be kept up to date by Mr. P. P.
Wells, librarian of the Yale Law School. It includes an appendix by Professor Channing, of
Harvard, which is on the lines of the "Guides" I suggest, though scarcely so full as I should
like them. This appendix is reprinted separately for five cents, and it is almost all English
public librarians and libraries need so far as American history goes. The English Fabian Society,
I may note, publishes a sixpenny bibliography of social and economic science, but it is a mere
list for local librarians, and of little use to the uninitiated reader.]

Such an Association in the present state of publishing would become--in Great Britain, at any
rate--quite inevitably a Publishing Association. A succession of vigorous, well-endowed Voluntary
Publishing Associations is a quite vital necessity in the modern state. A succession is needed
because each age has its unexpected new needs and new methods, and it would not be a bad idea
to endow such associations with a winding-up clause that would plump them, stock, unspent capital,
and everything except perhaps a pension fund for the older employes, into the funds of some
great Public Library at the end of thirty or forty years. Several such Associations have played,
or are still playing a useful part in British affairs, but most of them have lost the elasticity
of youth. Lord Brougham's Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge was one of the earliest,
and we have today, for example, the Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge, the Catholic
Truth Society, the Rationalist Press Association, and the Fabian Society. There is a real need
to-day for one--indeed there is room for several--Publishing Associations that would set themselves
to put bright modern lights into these too often empty lanterns, the Public Libraries. So lit,
Great Britain and America would have in them an instrument of public education unparalleled
in the world, infinitely better adapted to the individualistic idiosyncracy of our peoples
than any imitation of German colleges can possibly be. Propaganda of all sorts could be diverted
to this purpose. Persons of imperialistic tendencies might well consider the advisability of
Guides to good geographical and historical reading and sets of travel books, and of geographical
and historical works. Americanisers might consider the possibility of sets that would help
the common British to a clearer idea of America, and Americans to a realization that the British
Islands are something more than three obscure patches of land entirely covered by a haughty
peerage and a slightly absurd but historically interesting Crown. . . . Indeed, whatever you
want thought or believed, I would say, give books!

But the good New Republican would have a wider scope for his Publishing Association than to
subdue it to this specific doctrine or that. It is not the opinion makes the man; it is not
the conclusion makes the book. We live not in the truth, but in the promise of the truth. Sound
thinking, clearly and honestly set forth, that is the sole and simple food of human greatness,
the real substance and the real wealth of nations; the key that will at last unlock the door
to all we can dream of or desire.

X.

THOUGHT IN THE MODERN STATE

These speculations upon the possibilities and means of raising the average human result have
brought us at last to the problem of increasing the amount of original intellectual activity
in the state, as a culminating necessity. That average child who threads our speculations has
been bred and fed, we now suppose, educated in school and college, put under stimulating political
and social conditions and brought within reach and under the influence of the available literature
of the time, and he is now emerging into adult responsibility. His individual thought and purpose
has to swim in and become part of the general thought and purpose of the community. If that
general flow of thought is meagre, his individual life will partake of its limitations. As
the general thought rises out of its pools and narrow channels towards a wide flood, so each
individual becomes more capable of free movements and spacious co-operations towards the general
end. We have bred our citizen and trained him only to waste all his energy at last; he is no
better than the water in an isolated dry-season pool in the bed of a tropical river, unless
he can mingle in the end with the general sea of thought and action.

Thought is the life, the spontaneous flexibility of a community. A community that thinks freely
and fully throughout its population is capable of a thousand things that are impossible in
an unthinking mass of people. The latter, collectively considered, is a large rigid thing,
a lifeless thing, that will break rather than bend, that will die rather than develop. Its
inevitable end is dust and extinction. Look at the thing from the baser level of political
conceptions, and still that floating tide of thought is a necessity. With thought and gathered
knowledge things that mean tumult, bloodshed, undying hatreds, schisms and final disaster to
uncivilized races, are accomplished in peace; constitutional changes, economic reorganizations,
boundary modifications and a hundred grave matters. Thought is the solvent that will make a
road for men through Alpine difficulties that seem now unconquerable, that will dissolve those
gigantic rocks of custom and tradition that loom so forbiddingly athwart all our further plans.
For three thousand years and more the Book has been becoming more and more the evident salvation
of man. If our present civilization collapse, it will collapse as all previous civilizations
have collapsed, not from want of will but from the want of organization for its will, for the
want of that knowledge, that conviction, and that general understanding that would have kept
pace with the continually more complicated problems that arose about it. [Footnote: Dr. Beattie
Crozier, in his most interesting and suggestive History of Intellectual Development, terms
the literary apparatus that holds a people together to a common purpose, the "Bible" of that
people, and suggests that the "Bible" of a modern people should be the History of Civilization.
His work expresses by very different phrases and methods a line of thought closely akin to
the thesis of this paper.]

