"In the corner of the picture, on the left of the spectator, are three of the guards, drawn
up across the door, standing at ease, with all the self-command of soldiers in such situations,
hardly suppressing a laugh at the ridiculous attempts made to oppose them; in front of the
guards, is the commander of the enemy's forces; viz.--a little boy with a tin sword, on regular
guard position, ready to receive and oppose them, with a banner of 'Freedom of Election,' hanging
on his sabre; behind him stands the Lord High Sheriff, affecting to charge the soldiers with
his mopstick and pottle. He is dressed in a magnificent suit of decayed splendour, with an
old court sword, loose silk stockings, white shoes, and unbuckled knee-bands; his shoulders
are adorned with white bows, and curtain rings for a chain, hung by a blue ribbon from his
neck. Next to him, adorned with a blanket, is a character of voluptuous gaiety, helmeted by
a saucepan, holding up the cover for a shield, and a bottle for a weapon. Then comes the Fool,
making grimaces with his painted cheeks, and bending his fists at the military; while the Lord
Mayor with his white wand, is placing his hand on his heart with mock gravity and wounded indignation
at this violation of Magna Charta and civil rights. Behind him are different characters, with
a porter pot for a standard, and a watchman's rattle; while in the extreme distance, behind
the rattle, and under the wall, is a ragged Orator addressing the burgesses on this violation
of the privileges of Election.

"Right over the figure with a saucepan, is a Turnkey, holding up a key and pulling down the
celebrated Meredith; who, quite serious, and believing he will really sit in the House, is
endeavouring to strike the turnkey with a champagne glass. The gallant member is on the shoulders
of two men, who are peeping out and quizzing.

"Close to Meredith is his fellow Member, dressed in a Spanish hat and feather, addressing the
Sergeant opposite him, with an arch look, on the illegality of his entrance at elections, while
a turnkey has taken hold of the member's robe, and is pulling him off the water butt with violence.

"The sergeant, a fine soldier, one of the heroes of Waterloo, is smiling and amused, while
a grenadier, one of the other three under arms, is looking at his sergeant for orders.

"In the corner, directly under the sergeant, is a dissipated young man, addicted to hunting
and sports, without adequate means for the enjoyment, attended by his distressed family. He,
half intoxicated, has just drawn a cork, and is addressing the bottle, his only comfort, while
his daughter is delicately putting it aside and looking with entreaty at her father.

"The harassed wife is putting back the daughter, unwilling to deprive the man she loves, of
what, though a baneful consolation, is still one; while the little, shoeless boy with his hoop,
is regarding his father with that strange wonder, with which children look at the unaccountable
alteration in features and expression, that takes place under the effects of intoxication.

"Three pawnbroker's duplicates, one for the child's shoes, 1s. 6d., one for the wedding ring,
5s., and one for the wife's necklace, 7l., lie at the feet of the father, with the Sporting
Magazine; for drunkards generally part with the ornaments or even necessaries of their wives
and children before they trespass on their own.

"At the opposite corner lies curled up the Head Constable, hid away under his bed-curtain,
which he had for a robe, and slyly looking, as if he hoped nobody would betray him. By his
side is placed a table, with the relics of a luxurious enjoyment, while a washing tub as a
wine cooler, contains, under the table, Hock, Champagne, Burgundy, and a Pine.

"Directly over the sergeant, on the wall, are written, 'The Majesti of the Peepel for ever--huzza!'--'No
military at Elections!' and 'No Marshal!'--on the standards to the left, are 'Confusion to
Credit, and no fraudulent Creditors.' In the window are a party with a lady smoking a hookah;
on the ledge of the window, "Success to the detaining Creditor!" --At the opposite window is
a portrait of the Painter, looking down on the extraordinary scene with great interest--underneath
him is, 'Sperat infestis.'

"On a board under the lady smoking, is written the order of the Lord Mayor, enjoining Peace,
as follows:--

    "Banco Regis,
    Court House, July 16,
    In the Sixth year of the
    Reign of GEORGE IV.

"Peremptorily ordered--

    "That the Special Constables and Headboroughs
    of this ancient Bailwick do take into
    custody all Persons found in any way committing
    a breach of the Peace, during the Procession
    of Chairing the Members returned to represent
    this Borough.

  "SIR ROBERT BIRCH, (Collegian) Lord Mayor.

"'A New Way to pay Old Debts,'--is written over the first turnkey; and below it, 'N.B. A very
old way, discovered 3394 years B.C.;' and in the extreme distance, over a shop, is--'Dealer
in every thing genuine.'

"While the man beating the long drum, at the opposite end, another the cymbals, and the third
blowing a trumpet, with the windows all crowded with spectators, complete the composition,
with the exception of the melancholy victim behind the High Sheriff.

"I recommend the contemplation of this miserable creature, once a gentleman, to all advocates
of imprisonment for debt. First rendered reckless by imprisonment--then hopeless--then sottish--and,
last of all, from utter despair of freedom, insane! Round his withered temples is a blue ribbon,
with 'Dulce est pro Patriâ mori,' (it is sweet to die for one's country); for he is baring
his breast to rush on the bayonets of the guards, a willing sacrifice, as he believes, poor
fellow, for a great public principle. In his pocket he has three pamphlets, 'On Water Drinking,
or The Blessings of Imprisonment for Debt,'--and Adam Smith's 'Moral Essays.'--Ruffles hang
from his wrists, the relics of former days, rags cover his feeble legs, one foot is naked,
and his appearance is that of a decaying being, mind and body."

Such is Mr. Haydon's "Explanation" of his own Picture; and it only remains for us to give the
reader some idea of its most prominent beauties. As a whole, it is very superior to the "Election,"
highly as we were disposed to rate the merits of that performance. The style is masterly throughout,
and every shade of the colouring has all the depth and richness which characterize works of
real genius. There is a spirit in every touch which differs as much from the softened and soulless
compositions of certain modern artists, as does the florid architecture of the ancients from
the starved proportions of these days, or the rich and graceful style of the Essayists from
the fabrications of little, self-conceited biographers. In short, the whole scene is dashed
off in the first style of art; the subject and humour are all over English--true to nature,
and so forcible as to seize on the attention of the most listless beholder.

