He stood meekly silent, while his face, hands, and neck were daubed with some sticky black
stuff; and then, as bidden, he arrayed himself in some extraordinary baggy yellow clothes,
and a big paper collar.

He caught sight of himself in a bit of glass. He looked like a little black imp. What would
his mother say to see him? A feeling of intense shame surged over him. He crouched down in
a corner, wishing he could hide himself from the eyes of all men.

Philemon looked around him, and there, close by, was a boy about his own age, with large brown
eyes and white cheeks. He was dressed in flesh-colored tights.

"Who are you?" asked Philemon, as the boy stared and half smiled.

"I'm the 'Phenomenal Trapezist,'" announced the lad, solemnly.

"What do you do?"

"Oh, I go up on the trapeze, at the tiptop of the tent, and my father and uncle--they're the
crack gymnasts, you know--they toss me about as if I was a ball. By-and-by I'm going to learn
to hang by my toes, and take a flying leap, sixty foot, to the slack-rope near the ground."

"Aren't you frightened?" exclaimed Philemon.

"Ye--" began the boy, and then quickly changed his tone, as a man clad in scarlet and gilt
came near. "No, I ain't scared. I like it."

"Of course he ain't scared," said the man, roughly. "Come, Bill, it's time for you and me to
show ourselves."

They were joined by Bill's uncle, and the three passed into the outer tent. Philemon put his
eye against a hole in the canvas to watch them.

Like monkeys the two men and the child swung themselves aloft, and reached the tent roof. Here
they twisted, they turned, they made fearful leaps from one trapeze to another, until Philemon
trembled to see them. At last both men hung by their knees, head downward, and Bill crept carefully
to the end of a long rope, gave a spring, and caught his father's hands. There was an awful
pause; then small Bill was sent spinning through the air, sixty-five feet from the ground,
to be caught by his uncle, tossed back to his father, now seized by an arm, now by a leg, now
almost missed, now twirled round and round like a ball. Philemon caught his breath, and stretched
out his hand in an agony of fear. His hand touched another, which was as cold as ice. Glancing
up, he found Madame Lucetta Almazida close by, her eye glued to another hole in the canvas,
her breath coming short and thick, her face livid and drawn. Not knowing what she did, she
clutched Philemon's hand, and he heard her mutter,

"My baby! my baby!"

"Bill" was her own "Phenomenal Trapezist," and under Madame Lucetta Almazida's shabby bodice
a mother's heart beat wildly.

Philemon's heart beat too. What if he had been a "Bill," and his own sweet mother had worn
short skirts and ridden Pegasus? Horrible!

Poor Lucetta Almazida! Poor little Bill!

But there was time to think of them no more. The band of negro minstrels was ready to sing.
A clown seized Philemon's hand, and hurried him into the ring. There was a shout from the spectators.
Some one gave him a nudge.

"Pipe up, boy. We're ready for 'Massa's in the cold, cold ground.'"

Philemon opened his mouth, but no sound came. The eyes on every side burned into him. His one
desire was to rush away from those blackened men, from the choking odor of tan and kerosene,
from the disgrace of standing there, like a little black fiend, to be hooted at and expected
to make fun for the crowd. His brain reeled. With a cry he broke from a detaining hand, and
ran headlong across the arena, his yellow coat tails flapping about his heels.

Through the back tent he sped, past Madame Lucetta Almazida, who was holding the "Phenomenal
Trapezist" in her arms, past Mons. Duval, out into the night. Home--home--home--that was the
place toward which, if he had had wings, he would have flown. Being neither an angel nor even
a bird, only a little wretched boy, all he could do was to stumble along the dark road. Eight
miles away was his home. On and on he went, and at last his weary feet began to flag.

It seemed as if the chirping crickets were hissing at him. The frogs in the ponds croaked disapprovingly.
Even the stars winked reproachfully.

He was growing exhausted. He sank down by a fence, and his eyelids closed heavily.

The sun was high when he awoke, and then a colder, hungrier boy you never saw. Six miles from
home was he. There was nothing for it but to plod along, for there were no houses on that road.
One mile, two miles, he walked. He picked some apples by the road-side, but they were sour
and hard. Sometimes he tried to run, but had to give that up.

At five o'clock that afternoon the cook at a certain farm-house was frying doughnuts in the
back kitchen. She was looking very sober, and near her sat a very sober boy, who every now
and then drew his hand across his eyes. At last he spoke.

"Cerinthy," said he, "do you cal'late they'll ever find him?"

Cerinthy put another doughnut into the expostulating fat. "Romeo Augustus," said she, "it's
my opinion that maybe they may and maybe they mayn't; an' like as not if they do, it'll only
be his body, and-- Oh!"

Cerinthy gave a great scream, and dropped her panful of doughnuts on the floor, for on the
threshold of the "pump-room" stood a boy as black as the ace of spades, clad in startling yellow
clothes, his neck ornamented with a huge paper collar.

This image opened his mouth and spake. "Where's my mother? Give me a doughnut."

Cerinthy shrieked louder than ever. An opposite door opened, and out rushed a lady whose eyes
were swollen with crying.

"Mother!" called out the black boy, as he flew into her open arms.

"Philemon! mother's own little boy!" she sobbed; while Romeo Augustus performed a war-dance
about the two.

I think Philemon's father was so relieved when he beheld his fifth-born, that he would have
whipped him soundly. But his mother would by no means allow that. She gave him preserved peach
and cream toast instead.

"For you'll never do such a thing again, will you?" demanded she, tenderly.

Philemon gazed lovingly at her, with a mouth full of toast. "Catch me," said he.

JAPANESE CHILDREN.

Here we have a genuine picture of Japanese kodoma. They are in every-day dress, with hair and
shoes just as one sees them in their own village. There is the baby carried pickapack, and
laid on the back of its sister like a slice of meat on a sandwich. Baby's head is shaved as
smooth as one's palm, and kept so until it is two years old. Then the next style--a little
fringe of hair above the ears and one near the neck--will be proper. The next step will be
a tiny top-knot and a circle, in addition to the ear-locks.

All these children live on boiled rice, and they are as round and chubby and rosy-cheeked as
it is possible to be without bursting. See their nice loose clothes, with neither a pin to
stick nor a button to fly off! They do not wear socks nor stockings, for it is not very cold
in Japan. One little tot has on a pair of straw sandals, and the girl and old man wear clogs,
held on by a strap passing between the "thumb of the foot," as the Japs call the big toe, and
its next-door neighbor.

It would do American boys good, and set them a good example, to notice how kind to animals
Japanese children are. There is old daddy telling his children to treat their pet kindly, and
doggy knows it will be good for him to have such playmates. See his little straw kennel made
like a tent, with a crock of water in it. I'll wager that the children will feed the little
inu with tidbits from their own chopsticks.

A SEA-SIDE ADVENTURE.

AS RELATED IN A LETTER PROM BESSIE MAYNARD TO HER DOLL CLYTEMNESTRA, WHOM SHE LEFT AT HOME.

  OLD ORCHARD BEACH, July, 1880.

MY DEAREST CLYTEMNESTRA,--Do you miss me? and are you wondering why I do not write? Well, my
dear, writing is an impossibility when one is at the sea-shore. You never knew such times as
we are having all day long. I must tell you, first of all, of an adventure that befell me yesterday--not
me exactly, either; it most befell Lucille, the beautiful Paris doll that Fanny Bell was so
proud of; and well she might be, for a handsomer creature never walked. You remember her, of
course; the lovely Mademoiselle Lucille, as she was called, that being the French for Miss,
for it would never do to call her plain Lucille, such a fine young lady as she was, just from
France, with all the airs and graces that belong to Paris, the politest city in the world.
It's no great wonder she was proud--Lucille, I mean--for I'm afraid most of us would be if
we looked like her. Such hair as she had, all natural curls down below her waist; and such
a nelegant wardrobe, or "trooso," as Fanny calls it. Perhaps I haven't spelled trooso right,
but please excuse it; indeed, you wouldn't know whether it was right or wrong, you are such
a poor little ignorant thing. I'm ashamed of myself for neglecting your education as I have
done, when I see the dolls here, and realize how much they know. Just as soon as I get home,
we'll begin with regular lessons every day. It isn't your fault, you sweet lamb, that you don't
know anything. I am the only one to blame, and I'll try to make up for lost time when I come home.

But, dear me, how I do run on, without telling you a word of the adventure. The "sad sea waves"
put all sorts of ideas into my mind, and I get terribly confused. I heard a lady sing last
night about the "sad sea waves," and I think it sounds prettier than "the ocean"--don't you?
Well, to begin at the beginning: Yesterday morning Fanny Bell, Dora Mason, and I went down
to the beach as usual, Mademoiselle Lucille walking along by her mamma, just like a real live
beautiful child. We scooped holes in the warm sand, and made caves, and then we built the Pyramids.
They are in Egypt, you know, curiosities that people go to see; but we make them of sand, so
they look just exactly like the pictures, "Sfinks" and all. Perhaps you don't know what the
"Sfinks" is, but I will tell you some day, when I begin your education, my poor Clytemnestra.

Well, at last we wanted to go round the point to pick some wild morning-glories, so we sat
Lucille up on a kind of throne behind the Pyramids, and left her. We were only gone a little
bit of a while, but what do you think? when we came back the tide was in, and the sad sea waves
had washed away Pyramids, Sfinks, Lucille, and all! Oh, the despair we were in! Poor Fanny
jumped right up and down, and screeched, and then sinking down upon the sand, as the story-books
say, "she buried her face in her hands, and wept as if her heart would break." All at once
I saw something bobbing around, and if there wasn't Lucille about four feet from the shore,
fastened to a rock by the flounce of her pink satin dress! Fanny shrieked aloud, but Dora and
I seized a pole, and after working a long, long time, we managed to fish her out of the water.
Here is a picture that I have drawn to show you how we looked in our awful excitement.

Lucille is frightfully pale to-day, and her curls are gone forever. She is a bald-headed "faded
beauty," as a gentleman truly said when he saw her this morning. When I look at her, and remember
how fine she used to think herself, I can't help saying, "Well, my dear, 'pride must have a
fall.'" I pity her, though, from the very bottom of my heart, for it must be dreadful to be
so changed, and all of a sudden, too. I guess we sha'n't have to be so particular any more
about calling her "Mademoiselle."

I can not be thankful enough that I left you at home, my sweet Clytie. The sea-shore is a lovely
place for children who know how to take care of themselves, but 'tis dreadful dangerous for dolls.

And now good-night, my pet.

  Your loving mamma,
  BESSIE MAYNARD.

P.S.--Dora has just come in to say that Fanny has changed Mademoiselle's name, and hereafter
she is to be called "Jane." Poor thing!

  SYRACUSE, NEBRASKA.

     We have taken YOUNG PEOPLE ever since it was published, and we
     like it very much. I think "The History of Photogen and Nycteris"
     was the best story of all, but sister Addie likes "Across the
     Ocean" best, because it teaches her geography.

     I have no brother, but three sisters. Addie is thirteen, Mabel is
     nine, and Sadie is five. I was eleven yesterday.

     I live on a farm in Eastern Nebraska, and I take care of the
     little chickens and turkeys for mamma. I like to do it, for they
     are so cunning.

     I think that the Tree Album would be nice, and I am going to make
     one. There are a great many trees here. And we have many birds and
     pretty birds' eggs. I would like to preserve some eggs, only I
     don't know how. I would be glad if some correspondent would tell
     me the best way.

     I have no pets but cats and kittens, and there are so many of
     those that mamma votes them a nuisance.

  GEORGINE D.

       *       *       *       *       *

  POULTNEY, VERMONT.

     I am ten years old, and my uncle Charlie takes YOUNG PEOPLE for my
     sister Daisy and me.

     I have a pretty kitty named Dusty, Carlo, a big dog, and Petite, a
     canary.

     We are going to camp out at the Lake in July. Last summer we had a
     tent, but we are going to have a cottage this year.

  H. M. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ELIZABETH, NEW JERSEY.

     I am seven years old. I am living with my grandma in the country.
     I have thirteen children. They all eat at one table. Minnie,
     Flora, Daisy, Tally, Mamie, Allie, Lulu, Jennie, Lillie, Annie,
     Pinkey-Ketto, Harry, and Johnny. My papa likes Daisy best, but I
     like Minnie.

     I have a pet cat named Chubby, a chicken named Drabee, and a hen
     named Coachee. Uncle has a horse named Dolly, that eats sugar out
     of my hand, and always when she goes by the window she looks up
     for a lump of sugar.

     I made a little pie a few days ago, which was said to be very
     good.

     My papa reads me the stories and letters in YOUNG PEOPLE, and I
     thought I ought to write a letter too.

  GRACIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

  STANBRIDGE, CANADA.

     I am seven years old, and I have a sister twelve years old.
     HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE was a Christmas present from our grandpa. I
     read all the letters in the Post-office Box every week, and I like
     them the best.

     I have a pet dog I call Nestor. He is a spaniel. And I have a
     bantam hen which has five little chickens. I have also two dear
     little kittens that I found in the wood-shed.

     I am going to school this summer, and I like my studies very much.
     On my way from school to-day I stopped and picked some
     strawberries. They are just getting ripe.

  JANET M. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

  TRENTON, NEW JERSEY.

     I am a little girl six years old, and I am going to write and
     spell this letter all myself. I have three brothers, but no
     sister. The youngest is a baby one year old. We have a puppy named
     Nip, and he is full of fun. The other day Lewis was pulling me in
     our express wagon, and Nip ran after us as if the cart was a
     carriage and he a grown-up dog.

     We are going to the sea-shore this summer, where we expect to have
     a nice time playing in the sand.

  FANNY S. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CANTON, ILLINOIS.

     I tried Bessie L. S.'s recipe for doll's cup-cake, and I thought
     it was very nice. I have a little brother and a little sister
     younger than myself. I am eleven. I am always glad when papa
     brings me home my YOUNG PEOPLE. I think it is a very nice paper.

  MAGGIE M.

       *       *       *       *       *

  FRANKLIN, OHIO.

     My papa made me a Christmas present of YOUNG PEOPLE, and I like it
     so much.

     I have three pets. One is a little black dog named Aristotle. We
     call him Tot for short. I have a little kitty named Malty, and an
     old cat named Tabby. They play very pretty together. I have two
     nice dolls. One is very handsome. My papa brought her from Paris,
     and I called her Rosa Bell. The other one's name is Stella.

     I live on a hill, and we have beautiful views of the sunset.

  ETTA D.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.

     I am making a collection of birds' eggs. My brother sent some eggs
     to Alice Paine. I hope she will receive them safely.

     We have two cats; one of them is fifteen years old; he is a pure
     Maltese, with the exception of a few white hairs under his chin.
     We have a little gray squirrel too, and he is so tame that when my
     brother opens the door of his cage he will jump out and run all
     over him.

     I should like to know if English sparrows build in trees as robins
     do.

  DAISY R.

English sparrows build in little houses, if kind hands provide them, otherwise they seek out
any cozy corner wherever there is a shelf upon which to lodge their nest. They never build
in trees. You will find an article about them in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 14.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SEDALIA, MISSOURI.

     I wish to tell Rebecca H. that I tried her recipe for candy, and
     found it just splendid. I will send Puss Hunter's club a recipe
     for butter-scotch, and I hope Rebecca H. will also try it, and
     like it as well as I did hers. I wish she would let me know if she
     thinks it is good. Here is the recipe: Three table-spoonfuls of
     molasses, two of sugar, two of water, one of butter; add a pinch
     of soda before pouring out to cool.

  KITTIE G.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.

     Here is a recipe for apple-cake for Puss Hunter. Take one pint
     bowl of apples, pare, core, and chop them; then add three cups of
     cold water, one cup of sugar, one table-spoonful of butter. Bake
     about twenty minutes in a quick oven.

  L. GRACE P.

Is this mixture intended as a filling for pie-crust, or as apple jam? In writing out recipes,
our young housekeepers must be very careful to omit nothing, and to explain all details, as
a slight error may ruin a delicious dish.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HARTFORD, OHIO.

     I like HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE so much that I wish it would come
     every day.

     Here is a recipe for Puss Hunter. I call it maple candy. One and a
     half cups of maple syrup, and one-fourth of a cup of vinegar. When
     I think it is done, I pour it into a buttered dish to cool. Then I
     pull it till it becomes white. I tried R. C. W.'s recipe for
     candy, and I think it is very nice. I would like to be a member of
     the cooking club.

     We have two pet bird dogs, two robins, and a canary, and I have
     about seventy-five little chickens.

  MAUD K.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SEDALIA, MISSOURI.

     I have taken YOUNG PEOPLE from the first number, and I like it
     very much.

     I have a mocking-bird that is only five weeks old, and I have to
     feed it.

     Here is a recipe for ginger cookies for the cooking club: One cup
     of lard; one cup New Orleans molasses; one cup New Orleans sugar;
     two eggs; two-thirds of a cup of boiling-hot water poured over a
     heaping tea-spoonful of soda, and a little salt. Ginger to taste.

  ABBIE R.

       *       *       *       *       *

  PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.

     My sister and I tried Fanny S.'s recipe for caramels. The candy
     was very nice. Here is a recipe for Shrewsbury cake for the
     cooking club: One cup of butter; three cups of sugar; one and
     one-half pints of flour; three eggs; one tea-spoonful of royal
     baking powder; one cup of milk; one tea-spoonful of royal extract
     of rose. Add the
     milk last, and heat until the batter is light and thoroughly
     mixed. Bake in well-greased cake moulds about forty minutes in a
     quick oven.

  FLORENCE MCC.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRANK F. R. sends a recipe for caramels to the cooking club, which is the same as the one from
Fanny S. in Post-office Box No. 31, with the addition of three table-spoonfuls of flour.

       *       *       *       *       *

  RYE, NEW YORK.

     We have about fifty pigeons, and a whole flock of hens, chickens,
     turkeys, and guinea-fowls. I have a flower garden, and some lovely
     rose-bushes. I wish some correspondent could tell me how to kill
     the rose-bugs, and how to tame my pigeons. I am nine years old.

  ANNA S.

       *       *       *       *       *

     We moved up in the country the 1st of April. I like YOUNG PEOPLE
     very much, especially the story of "The Moral Pirates," and the
     Post-office Box.

     I have a little Shetland pony. I called her Bessy. She is less
     than four feet high. She likes to eat corn.

     What can I feed my turtles on?

     I am collecting postage stamps, and would like to exchange.

  MALCOLM STUART,
  Rye, Westchester County, New York.

If you will read former numbers of the Post-office Box, you will find full directions for feeding
turtles.

       *       *       *       *       *

     If all the readers of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE like to read it as
     well as I do, they like it well enough to take it forever. Nearly
     all of the correspondents write about their pets, but I have not
     one, except my little baby brother, who is nicer to me than all
     the pets in the world. We have a few roses in bloom, but they are
     almost all faded now.

     If John H. B., of Greensburg, Kentucky, can spare any of his flint
     arrow-heads, I would be very thankful for one or two, because I
     never saw but one in my life. I am fourteen years old.

  WINIFRED J. YORK,
  Fort Scott, Bourbon County, Kansas.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I have been making a collection of birds' eggs for about two
     months, and I have forty-seven different kinds. If any one living
     in the far West or South would exchange eggs with me, I would be
     much pleased.

  WALLACE ROSS,
  Lock Box 97, Rutland, Vermont.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am making a collection of birds' eggs, and if any correspondent
     will send me some plainly marked, I will send some in return. I am
     also collecting postmarks, and if any one is doing the same, I
     would be happy to exchange.

  JAMES A. SNEDEKER,
  60 Asylum Street, New Haven, Connecticut.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would like to exchange postage stamps with Sidney St. W. if he
     will send me his full name, and a list of what stamps he would
     like. I live at No 26 West Nineteenth Street, New York city, but
     during the summer my address is,

  JOHN RICE BLAKE,
  Old Cliff House, Newport, Rhode Island.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am making a collection of pens. I have seventy-seven different
     kinds, and if any little boys or girls have any strange or rare
     specimens of pens they do not wish to keep, I wish they would
     kindly send them to me.

  R. COMFORT, Franklin Avenue,
  near 169th Street, New York City.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I think YOUNG PEOPLE is a real nice paper for girls and boys.
     Whenever it comes I always read all the letters in the Post-office
     Box, and I thought I would write too, and tell you about our pet
     colt. It follows papa all round, and once it went after him clear
     up in town, and into a store. When it was born its mother died, so
     papa has to raise it the best way he can. One time he let it run
     round for a little exercise, and when he wanted to put it in the
     stable, the colt put its fore-feet on the gate and tried to jump
     over, but its hind-foot caught, and it turned a comical somersault
     in the air.

     I would like to exchange pressed leaves with any of the
     correspondents of Our Post-office Box.

  WILLIE HUGHES,
  P. O. Box 301, Greenville, Ohio.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ALTOONA, PENNSYLVANIA.

     I am always very glad when my HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE comes.

     I have a little dog named Pompey, and he is a very cunning little
     dog. I have had him ever since he was a little puppy. We have
     splendid races over the lawn together. Some time I will tell you
     more about him. I am nine years old. From your affectionate little
     reader,

  BLANCHE T.

       *       *       *       *       *

H. SUTHERLAND.--The engraving of "A Little Miser," in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 33, is after an oil-painting
by Adrien Marie, a French artist.

       *       *       *       *       *

I. O.--There is a very good swimming school at the Battery, New York city.

       *       *       *       *       *

  JERSEY CITY HEIGHTS, NEW JERSEY.

     I was interested in the article about the "New York Prison-Ships,"
     and I think that many of the correspondents who live far away
     would be interested to know what has been done in New York in
     commemoration of the Old Sugar-house Revolutionary martyrs. Not
     long ago I was walking past Trinity Church yard with my father,
     when the largest and most beautiful monument attracted my
     attention, and I asked papa to take me in the church-yard to see
     it. When I got close to it I saw that it was a massive structure
     with Gothic openings. It is fully sixty-feet high and twenty feet
     square, with fine carvings, and of beautiful workmanship. On one
     side is an inscription stating that the monument was erected in
     memory of the patriots who suffered as prisoners and died in the
     Old Sugar-House. It was paid for by private subscription. If any
     correspondents from a distance visit New York, they will be
     interested to see this monument in Trinity Church yard, for the
     sake of the noble heroes to whose memory it was erected.

  EDDIE A. L.

Correspondents will also be interested to know that the ashes of the prison-ship martyrs now
rest in a handsome tomb built in the hill-side of Fort Greene, Brooklyn--a pretty grassy spot,
now known as Washington Park. As these brave men died, they were taken ashore and buried in
the swampy land forming the shore of Wallabout Bay. There they lay until 1808, when they were
removed to a vault near the Brooklyn Navy-yard. In time this vault became very much dilapidated,
and was almost forgotten, until in 1855 the question of removing the remains to a more suitable
resting-place began to be agitated by the citizens of Brooklyn. Nothing, however, was done
for some years, when finally the Legislature of New York appropriated a sum for the building
of the tomb on Fort Greene, to which place the coffins were removed in the spring of 1873.

       *       *       *       *       *

ISABELLA S. R.--In preparing ferns for skeleton-leaf bouquets it is not necessary to place
them in the macerating bowl before bleaching, as the texture of the fern is so delicate as
to be ruined by maceration. Before bleaching, the fern should be pressed, and as it becomes
dry and brittle, more care is required in the bleaching process than for skeleton leaves. Hang
your sprays in the jar, and fill gently with warm water. Then pour in the bleaching solution
in the proportion of half a tea-cupful to a pint of water. Allow the jar, which must be covered
tightly, to stand in a warm place about twenty-four hours. The liquid should then be renewed.
It will take several days for the ferns to begin to whiten. They must then be watched carefully,
and each spray removed as soon as it attains the required whiteness. The spray must then be
washed carefully in a basin of clean warm water, and floated on to a sheet of paper, after
the manner followed in pressing sea-weeds. It should then be kept under pressure away from
the air until you are ready to make your bouquet, as otherwise it has a tendency to curl. Do
not be discouraged if you fail in your first attempts, as much experience is needed to render
the bleaching of ferns a success.

       *       *       *       *       *

W. D. V.--In the outer wall of St. Mark's Church, Stuyvesant Street, New York, is the original
tablet from the tomb of Peter Stuyvesant, who was buried in the family vault within the old
church which formerly stood on the site of the present edifice. On this tablet is inscribed
the fact that Petrus Stuyvesant died in August, 1682, aged eighty years.

       *       *       *       *       *

JASPER B.--The insect called the death-watch is a small beetle that perforates the small round
holes often seen in old furniture or in the panelling of old houses. If one of these beetles
be concealed in a panel, it will reveal itself by ticking in answer to any gentle tapping on
the wood-work.

       *       *       *       *       *

Favors are acknowledged from F. K. Reasoner, Eva and Ella, Carter Colquitt, Harry B. McGraw,
Johnny R. Glen, Mabel Lowell, Julian Gresham, Alma Hoffman, Claire B., Mantie Miller, Millie
Etta Martin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Correct answers to puzzles are received from Cora Frost, Graham B., Beryl Abbott, Charles F.
Crane, Harry Starr Kealhofer, George W. Raymond, Marion E. Norcross, Eddie S. Hequembourg,
Dora Williams, Albert E. Seibert, George Volckhausen, Eddie A. Leet.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUZZLES FROM YOUNG CONTRIBUTORS.

No. 1.

DECAPITATION.

  My whole is a fish, but if you behead
  An exclamation will be left instead.
  Behead again, and you will behold
  A craft that was famous in days of old.

  A. H. E.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 2.

ENIGMA.

  My first is in odor, but not in scent.
  My second is in strike, but not in dent.
  My third is in man, but not in boy.
  My fourth is in modest, but not in coy.
  My fifth is in cover, but not in lid.
  My sixth is in done, but not in did.
  My seventh is in sound, but not in ring.
  My whole is a sparkling, beautiful thing.

  C. H. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 3.

WORD SQUARE.

First, to rush. Second, a surface. Third, to close. Fourth, a glory.

  W. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 4.

DIAMOND.

In crystal. An animal. To delay. To attempt. In crystal.

  H. S. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 5.

GEOGRAPHICAL DOUBLE ACROSTIC

An English town celebrated for its naval arsenal. An Italian maritime city. A Spanish sea-port.
A city of Prussia celebrated for its royal gardens. A volcano in San Salvador. A Scottish sea-port.
A South American republic. Answer--Two seas lying east of Europe.

  C. P. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 6.

NUMERICAL CHARADE.

  I am composed of 15 letters.
  My 4, 13, 9, 5 is contemptible.
  My 10, 8, 7 is an animal.
  My 15, 3, 14 is to strike.
  My 12, 5, 9, 14 is what plumbers do to my 11, 1, 2, 10, 5, 6.
  My whole was a distinguished author.

  A. S. W. (10 years).