The assizes were being held at Salisbury soon afterwards, when Fitzjames was summoned to London
by a telegram from Coleridge. Coleridge had to tell him that if he could stand for Dundee,
where a vacancy had just occurred, he would probably be elected; and that, if elected, he would
probably, though no pledge could be given, be made Solicitor-General. Lord Romilly had retired
from the Mastership of the Rolls in March. The appointment of his successor was delayed until
the Judicature Act, then before Parliament, was finally settled. As, however, Coleridge himself
or the Solicitor-General, Sir G. Jessel, would probably take the place, there would be a vacancy
in the law offices. Fitzjames hesitated; but, after consulting Lord Selborne, and hearing Coleridge's
private opinion that he would be appointed Solicitor-General even if he failed to win the seat,
he felt that it would be 'faint-hearted' to refuse. He was to sit as judge, however, at Dorchester,
and thought that it would be improper to abandon this duty. The consequent delay, as it turned
out, had serious effects. From Dorchester he hurried off to Dundee.

He writes from Dundee on Sunday, July 27, 1873, giving an account of his proceedings. He had
been up till 5 A.M. on the morning of the previous Tuesday, and rose again at eight. He did
not get to bed till 3 A.M. on Wednesday. He was up at six, went to Dorchester, and attended
a 'big dinner,' without feeling sleepy. On Thursday he tried prisoners for four hours; then
went to London, and 'rushed hither and thither' from 10 P.M. till 2 A.M. on Friday. He was
up again at six, left by the 7.15 train, reached Dundee at 10.30, and was worried by deputations
till past twelve. Part of the Liberal party had accepted another candidate, and met him with
a polite request that he would at once return to the place whence he came. He preferred to
take a night's rest and postpone the question. On Saturday he again 'rushed hither and thither'
all day; spoke to 2,000 people for nearly two hours, was 'heckled' for another hour in stifling
heat, and had not 'the slightest sensation of fatigue,' except a trifling headache for less
than an hour. He was 'surprised at his own strength,' feeling the work less than he had felt
the corresponding work at Harwich in 1865.

The struggle lasted till August 5, the day of polling. Fitzjames had to go through the usual
experience of a candidate for a large constituency: speaking often six times a day in the open
air; addressing crowded meetings at night; becoming involved in a variety of disputes, more
or less heated and personal in their nature; and seeing from the inside the true nature of
the process by which we manufacture legislators. It was the second election in Dundee affected
by Disraeli's extension of the suffrage, and, I believe, the first election in the country
which took place under the provisions of the Ballot Act. The work was hard and exciting, especially
for a novice who had still to learn the art of speaking to large public meetings; but it was
such work as many eager politicians would have enjoyed without reserve. To Fitzjames it was
a practical lesson in politics, to which he submitted with a kind of rueful resignation, and
from which he emerged with intensified dislike of the whole system concerned.

Dundee was a safe Liberal seat; the working classes under the new system had an overwhelming
majority; and no Tory candidate had ventured to offer himself.[166] Fitzjames was virtually
the Government candidate. One of his opponents, Mr. Yeaman, had been provost of Dundee, but
his fame does not appear to have spread beyond his native town. While Fitzjames was lingering
at Dorchester another candidate had come forward, Mr. Edward Jenkins, known as the author of
'Ginx's Baby.' This very clever little book, which had appeared a couple of years previously,
had struck the fancy of the public, and run through a great number of editions. It reflected
precisely the school of opinion which Fitzjames most cordially despised. The morality was that
of Dickens's 'Christmas Carol,' and the political aim that of sentimental socialism. Thus,
though all three candidates promised to support Mr. Gladstone's Government, one of Fitzjames's
rivals represented the stolid middle-class prejudices, and a second the unctuous philanthropic
enthusiasm, which he had denounced with his whole force in 'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.'
No combination could have been contrived which would have set before him more clearly the characteristics
of the party of which he still considered himself to be a member.

From the beginning he felt himself to be, in some respects, in a false position. 'My dislike
of the business,' he says at starting, 'is not the least due to weakness or over-delicacy,
but to a deep-rooted disgust at the whole system of elections and government by constituencies
like this.' Three days' experience do not change his view. It is, he says, 'hateful work--such
a noise, such waste of time, such unbusinesslike, raging, noisy, irregular ways, and such intolerable
smallness in the minds of the people, that I wonder I do not do it even worse.' He could scarcely
stand a month of it for a certainty of the Solicitor-Generalship. On the day before the poll
he observes that 'it is wretched, paltry work.' A local paper is full of extracts from his
'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,' which, he fears, will not help him. However, 'it was very
good fun writing it.' And meanwhile, Mr. Jenkins was making speeches which showed that 'his
heart beat in unison with the people's,' and speaking 'earnest words' on Sunday afternoon to
boys on a training ship. Even an enthusiastic speech from one of Fitzjames's supporters at
a large meeting, which was followed by a unanimous vote of approval, 'nearly made him sick--it
was so unspeakably fulsome.' It was no wonder that he should be inclined to be disgusted with
the whole business.

Considering the general uncongeniality of the surroundings, the most remarkable thing was that
he made so good a fight as he did. He was encouraged by the presence of his brother by adoption
and affection, Frederick Gibbs. 'No one,' he reports, 'could be kinder or more sensible; and
he is as cool as a cucumber, and not shocked by my cynical heresies.' From Frederick Gibbs,
as he afterwards reports, he has received the 'best and wisest' advice on every point. The
'cynical heresies' to which he refers were simply those already expounded in his book. He said
precisely what he thought, and as vigorously as he could say it. A campaign paper, called the
'Torch,' published by some of his supporters, sums up the difference between him and Mr. Jenkins.
'Mr. Stephen's liberalism,' says the 'Torch,' 'is much nearer to radicalism than the liberalism
of Mr. Jenkins. Mr. Stephen's liberalism is the liberalism of self-help, of individualism,
of every form of conscious industry and energy. It is the only liberalism which has the smallest
chance of success in Scotland. The liberalism of Mr. Jenkins is the liberalism of state aid,
of self-abasement, of incapacity and indolence'; and leads straight to sentimental communism.
According to a 'working man' who writes to the paper, Mr. Jenkins virtually proposes that the
industrious part of the working classes are to support the children of the lazy, idle, and
improvident--a principle which many people now seem inclined to regard as defensible.

Fitzjames's accounts of his own speeches are to the same purpose. He has repeated, he says,
what he has always and everywhere maintained--that people must 'help themselves, and that every
class of society is bound together, and is in one boat and on one bottom.' I have read the
reports in the local newspapers, which fully confirm this statement; but I need only notice
one point. He manages to get in a good word for codification, and illustrates his argument
by an ingenious parallel with Bradshaw's 'Railway Guide.' That 'code' is puzzling enough as
it is; but what would be our state if we had to discover our route by examining and comparing
all the orders given by the directors of railways from their origin, and interpreting them
in accordance with a set of unwritten customs, putting special meanings upon the various terms
employed?

The educated classes, as the 'Torch' asserts, and as his supporters told him, were entirely
in his favour; and, had the old suffrage remained unaltered, no one else would have had a chance
against him. Not only so, but they declared that every speech he made was converting the working
classes. He is told that, if he had longer time, he would be able to 'talk them all round.'
His speeches obviously impressed his hearers for the time. 'You cannot imagine,' he says on
August 2, 'how well I get on with the people here, working men as well as gentry. They listen
with the deepest attention to all I say, and question me with the keenest intelligence.' He
admits, indeed, that there is no political sympathy between him and his hearers. They want
a 'thorough-going radical,' and he cannot pretend to be one--'it is forced out on all occasions.'
In fact, he was illustrating what he had said in his book. He heartily liked the individual
working man; but he had no sympathy with the beliefs which find favour with the abstract or
collective working man, who somehow manages to do the voting. They seem to have admired his
force, size, and manliness. 'Eh, but ye're a wiselike mon ony way,' says a hideous old woman
(as he ungratefully calls her), which, he is told, is the highest of Scottish compliments to
his personal appearance. This friendly feeling, and the encouragement of his supporters, and
the success of his speeches, raised his hopes by degrees, and he even 'felt a kind of pride
in it,' though 'it is poor work educating people by roaring at them.' Towards the end he even
thinks it possible that he may win, and, if so, 'it will be an extraordinary triumph, for I
have never asked one single person to support me, and I have said the most unpopular things
to such an extent that my supporters told me I was over-defiant, or, indeed, almost rude.'

However, it was not to be. Whether, as his friends said, he was too good for the place, or
whether less complimentary reasons alleged by his opponents might be justified, he was hopelessly
behind at the polls. He received 1,086 votes; Mr. Jenkins, 4,010; and Mr. Yeaman, 5,207--or
rather more than both his opponents together. Fitzjames comforts himself by the reflection
that both he and Mr. Jenkins had shown their true colours; that the respectable people had
believed in him 'with a vengeance,' and that the working men were beginning to like him. But
Mr. Jenkins's views were, and naturally must be, the most popular. Fitzjames's chief supporter
gave a dinner in his honour, when his health was drunk three times with boundless enthusiasm,
and promises were made of the heartiest support on a future occasion. The fulfilment of the
promises was not required; and Fitzjames, in spite of occasional overtures, never again took
an active part in a political contest.

In 1881, Lord Beaconsfield wrote to Lord Lytton: 'It is a thousand pities that J. F. Stephen
is a judge; he might have done anything and everything as leader of the future Conservative
party.' Lord Beaconsfield was an incomparably better judge than I can pretend to be of a man's
fitness for such a position. The opinion, too, which he thus expressed was shared by some of
Fitzjames's friends, who thought that his masculine force of mind and downrightness of character
would have qualified him to lead a party effectively. I shall only say that it is idle to speculate
on what he might haw done had he received the kind of training which seems to be generally
essential to success in political life. He might, no doubt, have learnt to be more tolerant
of the necessary compromises and concessions to the feelings engendered by party government.
As it was, he had, during his early life, taken so little interest in the political movements
of the day, and, before he was dragged for a time into the vortex, had acquired so many prepossessions
against the whole system, that I cannot but think that he would have found a difficulty in
allying himself closely with any party. He considered the Tories to be not much, if at all,
better than the Radicals; and he would, I fancy, have discovered that both sides had, in Lowell's
phrase, an equal facility for extemporising lifelong convictions. Upon this, however, I need
not dwell. In any case, I think that the Dundee defeat was a blessing in disguise; for, had
he been elected and found himself enlisted as a supporter of Mr. Gladstone, his position would
have been almost comically inappropriate. A breach would, doubtless, have followed; and perhaps
it would have been an awkward business to manage the transition with delicacy.

Fitzjames, in fact, discovered at Dundee that he was not really a 'Liberal' in the sense used
in modern politics. His 'liberalism,' as the 'Torch' said, meant something radically opposed
to the ideas which were becoming dominant with the party technically called by the name. His
growing recognition of a fact which, it may perhaps be thought, should have already been sufficiently
obvious, greatly influenced his future career. Meanwhile, he went back to finish his duties
as Commissioner at the assizes, and to reflect upon the lessons which, as he said, he had learnt
at Dundee. He had fresh ideas, he said, as to politics and the proper mode of treating them.
He propounded some of his doctrines in a couple of lectures upon 'Parliamentary Government,'
delivered to the Edinburgh Philosophical Society in the following November.[167] He describes
some of the familiar consequences; shows how our administrative system has become an 'aggregate
of isolated institutions'; and how the reduction of the Royal power to a cipher has led to
the substitution of a set of ministers, each a little king in his own department, and shifted
backwards and forwards in obedience to popular sentiment. One result is the subordination to
party purposes of important interests not essentially connected with them. At the present moment,
he says, a disaster on the west coast of Africa would affect the prospects of popular education.
That is as rational as it would be to change your lawyer because you have had to discharge
your cook. Fitzjames, however, was under no illusions. He fully admits that parliamentary government
is inevitable, and that foreign systems are in some respects worse, and, in any case, incapable
of being introduced. He confines himself to suggesting that some departments of administration
and legislation might be withdrawn from the influence of our party system.

IV. CODIFICATION IN ENGLAND

Fitzjames had returned to act again as Commissioner at Wells. There he had to listen to a vehement
sermon from Archdeacon Denison, in favour of auricular confession, and glancing, as his hearer
fancied, at a certain article in the 'Pall Mall Gazette.' He had afterwards a pleasant chat
with Freeman, 'not a bad fellow at all,' though obviously a 'terrible pedant.' He hears from
Coleridge, who has finally decided against accepting the Mastership of the Rolls, and hopes
that Fitzjames may still be his colleague. The old Chief Baron is still charming, and says
('though I don't believe it') that he never knew what mental fatigue meant, and that when he
was Solicitor-General he was never in bed for more than two or three hours for four or five
nights a week ('which, again, I do not believe'). However, it is undeniable that he can still
do his work as well as many younger men.

The chance of the Solicitor-Generalship was soon extinguished. Coleridge was friendly, but
explained that political considerations might prevent any attention being paid to his personal
wishes. In September, in fact, Sir Henry James was appointed to the vacant post and the hope
finally disappeared. There was still, however, a possibility of a seat on the bench, which
would please him still better. He feels that his proper place is out of Parliament. He could
exercise more influence 'than all the Solicitor-Generals in the world' by simply devoting himself
to writing, and he is full of plans for books. But he would like to be a judge for the sake
both of the money and the work. 'The administration of justice is really the best thing which
is going on in the nation.' On January 9, 1874, however, he announces that his little 'bubble
about the judgeship, which looked a very bright bubble indeed, has gone where all bubbles go.'
Twenty people had congratulated him upon his appointment and three judges had written to recommend
clerks. Last night he had heard decisively that he was not to have it. Coleridge, too, had
become Lord Chief Justice and the Government business had gone elsewhere. Well, he will 'put
on some extra work to keep hold of the wolf's ears which he has held so long.' Coleridge, I
may add, still took an interest in Fitzjames's codification schemes, and they even agreed,
or rather vaguely proposed, to act the parts of 'Moses and Aaron,' Fitzjames inspiring measures
of which Coleridge was to take charge in the House of Lords. This dream, however, vanished
like others.

The dissolution of Parliament in January, 1874, was followed by a general election. Proposals
were made to Fitzjames to stand at several places; including Dundee, where, however, Mr. Jenkins
was elected. For one reason or other he declined the only serious offers, and was 'not sorry.'
He could not get over 'his dislike to the whole affair.' He 'loathed elections,' and 'could
not stand the idea of Parliament.' Disraeli soon came into office, and 'the new ministry knew
not Joseph.' Fitzjames had quite got over his disappointment about the judgeship, though he
admits that he had at first felt it 'bitterly.' He has not known how to find favour with chancellors
or ministers. He therefore resolves to make his own way; he cares more for what he is in himself
than for the position he holds; and he reconciles himself 'to the prospect which obviously
lies before him,' of obscure hard 'labour for a good many years.' He 'puts away all his fair
hopes in his pocket, and resolves to do three things: a good bit of codifying,' whether on
his own account or for Government; a little book about India; and finally the magnum opus which
he had so long meditated, which he thought that he ought to begin when he was fifty (he was
at this time just forty-five), and which might take about fifteen years. The little book about
India is afterwards frequently mentioned in his letters under its proposed title, 'The English
in India.' It was, I think, to be more or less historical, and to occupy some of the ground
covered by Sir Alfred Lyall's 'British Dominion in India.' It never took definite shape, but
led to the work upon Impey, of which I shall have to speak hereafter. Meanwhile he is not without
some good professional omens. He feels that he will have to 'restrict his circuiteering,' and
not to go to most of the towns without special retainers. Good work is coming to him in London,
though not so frequently as might be wished.

The codifying, in fact, took up much of his time. The 'Homicide Bill' was introduced into Parliament
this year (1874) by Russell Gurney, and referred to a Select Committee. They consulted Cockburn,
Bramwell, and Blackburn, who appear to have been on the whole hostile. Bramwell, however, declared
that the Bill was 'excellently drawn,' and in a friendly letter to Fitzjames condemned the
spirit of hostility in which it had been received by other judges. The main objection put forward
by Cockburn and accepted by the Committee was the objection to a partial measure. The particular
question of homicide involved principles applying to other parts of the criminal law; and a
partial treatment would only serve to introduce confusion and doubt. The Committee accordingly
recommended that the Bill should be dropped. Fitzjames accepted this not as a reason for abandoning
the attempt but for extending the scope of the proposed measure. The result will appear presently.

The change of Government was not altogether unfavourable. Early in March he received instructions
from Lord Salisbury, who had succeeded the Duke of Argyll at the India Office, to consolidate
the Acts relating to the government of India. He set to work with his usual energy, and a statement
prefixed to the printed draft of the Bill is dated June 2, 1874. In less than three months
he had done a big piece of work. The consolidation of these laws had been in contemplation
in England and India for some time. Various preparations had been made by Government, including
a draft of the proposed Act by Mr. Herman Merivale, then permanent undersecretary at the India
Office. Fitzjames, however, had to go through the whole, and, as he laments, without such help
as he could have commanded from his subordinates in India. He prepared an elaborate schedule
showing every unrepealed section of every Act relating to India since 1770. The 'kernel of
the law' was contained in eight Acts; the 'Regulating Act' of 1773, the Acts upon the successive
renewal of the Company's charter, and the Acts passed upon the transference of the Company's
powers to the Crown. As each of these had been superposed upon its predecessors without repealing
them, it was necessary to go through them all to discover what parts were still in force; how
far any law had been modified by later enactments, and what parts of the law it might be desirable
to leave unaltered; and then to fuse the whole into unity. Fitzjames proposes to repeal forty-three
Acts with the exception of certain sections, and to substitute for the repealed portions a
single Act of 168 sections, shorter, as he remarks, than some of those repealed. The result
would be to save a great deal of labour to hard-worked Indian officials, who required to know
the precise limits of their authority; and the Act would form a complete constitutional code,
determining the powers and the mutual relations of the whole Indian administrative and legislative
system.

The draft was carefully criticised by the authorities. Fitzjames himself went through it again
in the following January with Maine and Sir Erskine Perry, and it was finally made ready to
be laid before Parliament. Lord Salisbury introduced in the following session a preparatory
measure which would be incidentally required. This, however, was withdrawn in consequence,
it seems, of objections made by the Legislative Council in India, and the whole code went to
the usual limbo. I do not know what was the precise nature of the objection, but probably it
was thought that the new law might stir up questions which it was better to leave in repose.
Anyhow, nothing came of it. 'You have done your work and got your fee, and what more do you
want?' observed a cynical friend. To which Fitzjames could only reply, ruefully enough, 'True,
O King.'

This task interrupted another upon which he had been engaged, and which he took up again as
soon as it was finished. He writes upon July 3, 1874, that his prospects have improved, and
that he has therefore 'turned his mind to his books in real earnest.' They are a 'large family'
and rather crowd upon him. However, his first enterprise will be 'a codification of the English
law of contracts, founded upon the Indian Act, but larger and more elaborate in every way.'
If the country takes to codifying (the dream had not yet vanished), this might become his profession.
Anyhow, he will be able to give his mind to what he really cares for. He had been already hard
at work upon his 'Contract Book' in the winter before he was instructed to prepare the Acts
for the Government of India. This task, I may observe, had led him to study some of the German
jurists. He had perfected his German with the help of a master in the summer of his return,
and was now able to read the language comfortably. He expresses at first sight anything but
acquiescence in German claims to philosophical pre-eminence, but after a time he comes to understand
the respect which Austin professed for Savigny. His study of the Law of Contracts was apparently
broken off by a renewed call to take up once more the Criminal Law. Of this I shall have to
speak presently.

The reference just quoted to improved prospects is to be explained by an influx of parliamentary
business which took place at this time. He was leading counsel in the session of 1874 for the
London, Chatham and Dover Railway Company, and appeared for them in several cases. The impression
which he made upon professional observers has been reported to me by more than one competent
witness. It is such as may be foreseen. 'You are bringing your steam hammer to crack a nut
again,' was the remark made to one of them by a friend. Admiration for his 'close reasoning,
weighty argument, and high tone of mind,' is cordially expressed. He never threw a word away,
always got to the core of a question, and drove his points well home. And yet he did not seem
to be in the field best adapted for his peculiar gifts. He was too judicial, too reluctant
to put a good face upon a bad cause, not enough of a rhetorician, and not sufficiently alert
in changing front, or able to handle topics with the lightness of touch suitable to the peculiar
tastes of a parliamentary Committee. Thus, though he invariably commanded respect, he failed
to show the talent necessary for the more profitable, if not more exalted lines of professional
success. Business still continued to present itself in the most tantalising form; it came in
gushes and spurts, falling absolutely dead at one moment and then unexpectedly reviving. He
had occasionally successful circuits; but failed to step into the vacant place made by the
elevation to the bench of his old tutor, Lord Field, in 1875, and gradually went his rounds
less regularly. Meanwhile a good deal of business of a different kind presented itself. At
the end of 1874, I find him mentioning that he had eleven cases before the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council. He appeared in a good many colonial and Indian appeals, and afterwards,
as I shall have occasion to notice, in certain ecclesiastical cases. I do not think, however,
that I need dwell upon this part of his career.

One remark must be made. Fitzjames was still doomed to be an illustration of the curious disproportion
which may exist between a man's intrinsic power and his fitness for professional success. Still,
as at college, he was distanced in the race by men greatly his inferiors in general force of
mind, but better provided with the talent for bringing their gifts to market. Such a position
was trying, for it was inevitable that he should be himself more conscious of his abilities
than of his limitations. His incapacity for acquiring the dexterities by which men accommodate
themselves to their neighbours' wants implied a tendency rather to under-estimate the worth,
whatever it may be, of such dexterities. The obstacle to his success was just the want of appreciation
of certain finer shades of conduct, and therefore remained unintelligible to himself. He was
like a painter of very keen and yet narrowly limited vision, who could not see the qualities
which lead people to prefer the work of a long-sighted man. Yet he not only never lost heart,
but, so far as I can discover, was never for a moment querulous or soured. He was never for
an instant in danger of becoming a 'man with a grievance.' He thought, of course, that his
views were insufficiently appreciated; but he complained, not of individuals, but of general
causes which were practically irremovable, and against which it was idle to fret. If, in writing
to his closest friends, he indulges in a momentary grumble over the 'bursting of a bubble,'
he always adds that he is ashamed of himself for the feeling, and emphatically declares himself
to be one of the happiest and most fortunate of men. When, therefore, I report his various
disappointments, I must be understood to imply that they never lowered his courage even in
the most trifling degree, or threw over his course more than such passing fits of shadow as
even the strongest man must sometimes traverse. Nobody could have been cheerier, more resolute,
or more convinced that his lines had fallen in pleasant places.

V. THE METAPHYSICAL SOCIETY

Here I shall notice some of the employments in which he found distraction from the various
worries of his career. In the first place, he had a boundless appetite for books. When he returned
from India he rubbed up his old classical knowledge; and, though he had far too much sense
to despise the help of 'cribs,' he soon found himself able to get on pretty well without them.
He mentions a number of authors, Homer, for example, and Æschylus, who supplied a motto for
'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity '; he reads Demosthenes, partly with a view to Greek law; dips
into Plato and Aristotle, and is intensely interested by Cicero's 'De Natura Deorum.' He declares,
as I have said, that he cared little for literature in itself; and it is no doubt true that
he was generally more interested in the information to be got from books than in the mode of
conveying it. This, however, increases his appetite for congenial works. He admires Gibbon
enthusiastically; he has read the 'Decline and Fall' four or five times, and is always wishing
to read it again. He can imagine no happier lot than to be able to devote oneself to the completion
of such a book. He found it hard, indeed, to think of a novel or a poem as anything but a trifling
though fascinating amusement. He makes an unfavourable criticism upon a novel written by a
friend, but adds that it is 'not really unfavourable.' 'A great novel,' he explains, 'a really
lasting work of art, requires the whole time and strength of the writer, ... and X. is too
much of a man to go in for that.' After quoting Milton's 'Lycidas' and 'Christmas Hymn,' which
he always greatly admired, he adds that he is 'thankful that he is not a poet. To see all important
things through a magnifying glass of strange brilliant colours, and to have all manner of tunes
continually playing in one's head, and I suppose in one's heart too, would make one very wretched.'
A good commonplace intellect satisfied with the homely food of law and 'greedily fond of pastry
in the form of novels and the like, is--well, it is at all events, thoroughly self-satisfied,
which I suppose no real poet or artist ever was.' Besides, genius generally implies sensitive
nerves, and is unfavourable to a good circulation and a thorough digestion. These remarks are
of course partly playful, but they represent a real feeling. A similar vein of reflection appears
to have suggested a comment upon Las Casas' account of Napoleon at St. Helena. It is 'mortifying'
to think that Napoleon was only his own age when sent to St. Helena. 'It is a base feeling,
I suppose, but I cannot help feeling that to have had such gifts and played such a part in
life would be a blessing and a delight greater than any other I can think of. I suppose the
ardent wish to be stronger than other people, and to have one's own will as against them, is
the deepest and most general of human desires. If it were a wish which fulfilled itself, how
very strong and how very triumphant I should be;--but it does not.' For this atrocious wish,
I must add, he apologises amply in a later letter. It is merely a passing velleity. In truth
it represents his version of Carlyle's doctrine about the superiority of silence to speech,
or rather of the active to the contemplative life. The career of a great conqueror, a great
legislator, a man who in any capacity has moulded the doctrines of the race, had a charm for
his imagination which he could not find in the pleasant idlers, who beguile our leisure by
singing songs and telling stories.

Men who affect the religions of mankind belong rather to the active than the contemplative
class. Nobody could estimate more highly the importance of philosophical speculations upon
the great problems of life. To write a book which should effectively present his own answer
to those problems was his permanent ambition. Even in going to India, he said, he had been
moved partly by the desire of qualifying himself by fresh experience for such a work, which
had been consciously before him ever since he left college. He was never able to carry out
the plan which was very frequently in his thoughts. Certain articles, however, written about
this time, sufficiently indicate his general conclusions, and I therefore shall here give some
account of them. They were all more or less connected with that curious body called the 'Metaphysical
Society.'

A description of this institution was given in the 'Nineteenth Century' for August 1885 by
Mr. R. H. Hutton, who represents the discussions by an imaginary conversation between the chief
debaters. Mr. Knowles prefixed a brief historical account. The Society was founded in consequence
of a conversation between Tennyson and Mr. Knowles, and held its first meeting on April 21,
1869. Fitzjames joined it after his return from India. The scheme of the founders was to provide
an arena in which the most important religious problems should be discussed with the same freedom
with which other problems are, or ought to be discussed in the learned and scientific societies.
Perhaps some light might be thrown upon the question whether we have immortal souls, in which
Tennyson was much interested. Many very distinguished men became members, and after a friendly
dinner discussed papers which had been circulated for consideration. Cardinal Manning, W. G.
Ward, and Father Dalgairns were the chief representatives of Catholicism; Professors Huxley,
Tyndall, and W. K. Clifford of a scientific agnosticism; Mr. Frederic Harrison of Positivism;
and Dr. Martineau, Mr. Ruskin, Mr. R. H. Hutton, of various shades of rational theology. There
were others, such as Mark Pattison and Professor Henry Sidgwick, whom I should shrink from
putting into any definite class. Mr. Gladstone, Lord Selborne, and Fitzjames may perhaps be
described as intelligent amateurs, who, though occupied with more practical matters, were keenly
interested in philosophical speculations. These names are enough to show that there was no
lack of debating talent.

Fitzjames took the liveliest interest in these discussions, to which at various times he contributed
papers upon 'necessary truths,' 'mysteries,' the 'proof of miracles,' the 'effect upon morality
of a decline in religious faith,' and the 'utility of truth.' He enjoyed some vigorous encounters
with various opponents: and according to Mr. Hutton his 'mighty bass' exercised 'a sort of
physical authority' over his hearers. The meetings were of course strictly private; and reports
of the debates, had reports been possible, would have been a breach of confidence. Yet as the
Society has excited a certain interest, I will venture to record part of my impressions. I
was not a member of the Society in its early, and, as I take it, most flourishing days; and
I only once, for example, heard a few words from W. G. Ward, who was then one of the more conspicuous
interlocutors. But I had the honour of membership at a later period, and formed a certain estimate
of the performances.

I remarked, in the first place, what was not strange, that nobody's preconceived opinions were
changed, nor even, so far as I know, in the smallest degree affected by the discussions. Nor
were they calculated to affect any serious opinions. Had any young gentleman been present who
had sat at the feet of T. H. Green or of Professor Sidgwick, and gained a first class at either
University, he would, as I always felt, have remarked that the debaters did not know what they
were talking about. So far as the discussions were properly metaphysical, the remark would
have been more than plausible. With certain conspicuous exceptions, which I shall not specify,
it was abundantly clear that the talk was the talk of amateurs, not of specialists. I do not
speak from conjecture when I say, for example, that certain eminent members of the Society
had obviously never passed that 'asses' bridge' of English metaphysics, the writings of Bishop
Berkeley, and considered his form of idealism, when it was mentioned, to be a novel and startling
paradox. It was, I fancy, a small minority that had ever really looked into Kant; and Hegel
was a name standing for an unknown region wrapped in hopeless mist. This would be enough to
disenchant any young gentleman fresh from his compendiums of philosophy. Persons, he would
think, in so hopeless a state of ignorance could no more discuss metaphysics to any purpose
than men who had never heard of the teaching of Newton or Darwin could discuss astronomy or
biology. It was, in fact, one result of the very varying stages of education of these eminent
gentlemen that the discussions became very ambiguous. Some of the commonest of technical terms
convey such different meanings in different periods of philosophy that people who use them
at random are easily set at hopelessly cross-purposes.... 'Object' and 'subject,' 'intuition,'
'experience,' and so forth, as used by one set of thinkers, are to others like words in an
unknown language which they yet do not know to be unknown.

