The vessel that conveyed us, and by "us" I mean the passengers of the "Crescent City," and
as many others as could by any possibility procure passage from Panama to San Francisco was
the old steamer "California." She was about one thousand tons burden; but probably no ship
of two thousand ever carried a greater number of passengers on a long voyage. When we came
to get under way, there did not seem to be any spare space from stem to stern. There were over
twelve hundred persons on board, as I was informed.[2] Unfortunately many of them carried with
them the seeds of disease. The infection contracted under a tropical sun, being aggravated
by hardships, insufficient food, and the crowded condition of the steamer, developed as the
voyage proceeded. Panama fever in its worst form broke out; and it was not long before the
main deck was literally covered with the sick. There was a physician attached to the ship;
but unfortunately he was also prostrated. The condition of things was very sad and painful.

Among the passengers taken sick were two by the name of Gregory Yale and Stephen Smith; and
I turned myself into a nurse and took care of them. Mr. Yale, a gentleman of high attainments,
and who afterwards occupied a prominent place at the bar of the State, was for a portion of
the time dangerously ill, and I believe that but for my attentions he would have died. He himself
was of this opinion, and afterwards expressed his appreciation of my attention in every way
he could. In the many years I knew him he never failed to do me a kindness whenever an opportunity
presented. Finally, on the evening of December 28, 1849, after a passage of twenty-two days
from Panama, we reached San Francisco, and landed between eight and nine o'clock that night.

[1] The first article was entitled "The Oregon Question," and the
    second "The Edinburgh and Foreign Quarterly on the Oregon
    Question."

[2] NOTE.--The number of passengers reported to the journals of
    San Francisco on the arrival of the steamer was much less
    than this, probably to avoid drawing attention to the
    violation of the statute which restricted the number.

FIRST EXPERIENCES IN SAN FRANCISCO.

Upon landing from the steamer, my baggage consisted of two trunks, and I had only the sum of
ten dollars in my pocket. I might, perhaps, have carried one trunk, but I could not manage
two; so I was compelled to pay out seven of my ten dollars to have them taken to a room in
an old adobe building on the west side of what is now known as Portsmouth Square. This room
was about ten feet long by eight feet wide, and had a bed in it. For its occupation the sum
of $35 a week was charged. Two of my fellow-passengers and myself engaged it. They took the
bed, and I took the floor. I do not think they had much the advantage on the score of comfort.

The next morning I started out early with three dollars in my pocket. I hunted, up a restaurant
and ordered the cheapest breakfast I could get. It cost me two dollars. A solitary dollar was,
therefore, all the money in the world I had left, but I was in no respect despondent over my
financial condition. It was a beautiful day, much like an Indian Summer day in the East, but
finer. There was something exhilarating and exciting in the atmosphere which made everybody
cheerful and buoyant. As I walked along the streets, I met a great many persons I had known
in New York, and they all seemed to be in the highest spirits. Every one in greeting me, said
"It is a glorious country," or "Isn't it a glorious country?" or "Did you ever see a more glorious
country?" or something to that effect. In every case the word "glorious" was sure to come out.
There was something infectious in the use of the word, or rather in the feeling, which made
its use natural. I had not been out many hours that morning before I caught the infection;
and though I had but a single dollar in my pocket and no business whatever, and did not know
where I was to get the next meal, I found myself saying to everybody I met, "It is a glorious
country." The city presented an appearance which, to me, who had witnessed some curious scenes
in the course of my travels, was singularly strange and wild. The Bay then washed what is now
the east side of Montgomery street, between Jackson and Sacramento streets; and the sides of
the hills sloping back from the water were covered with buildings of various kinds, some just
begun, a few completed,--all, however, of the rudest sort, the greater number being merely
canvas sheds. The locality then called Happy Valley, where Mission and Howard streets now are,
between Market and Folsom streets, was occupied in a similar way. The streets were filled with
people, it seemed to me, from every nation under Heaven, all wearing their peculiar costumes.
The majority of them were from the States; and each State had furnished specimens of every
type within its borders. Every country of Europe had its representatives; and wanderers without
a country were there in great numbers. There were also Chilians, Sonorians, Kanakas from the
Sandwich Islands, and Chinese from Canton and Hong Kong. All seemed, in hurrying to and fro,
to be busily occupied and in a state of pleasurable excitement. Everything needed for their
wants; food, clothing, and lodging-quarters, and everything required for transportation and
mining, were in urgent demand and obtained extravagant prices. Yet no one seemed to complain
of the charges made. There was an apparent disdain of all attempts to cheapen articles and
reduce prices. News from the East was eagerly sought from all new comers. Newspapers from New
York were sold at a dollar apiece. I had a bundle of them, and seeing the price paid for such
papers, I gave them to a fellow-passenger, telling him he might have half he could get for
them. There were sixty-four numbers, if I recollect aright, and the third day after our arrival,
to my astonishment he handed me thirty-two dollars, stating that he had sold them all at a
dollar apiece. Nearly everything else brought a similarly extravagant price. And this reminds
me of an experience of my own with some chamois skins. Before I left New York, I purchased
a lot of stationery and the usual accompaniments of a writing-table, as I intended to practise
my profession in California. The stationer, learning from some remark made by my brother Cyrus,
who was with me at the time, that I intended to go to California, said that I ought to buy
some chamois skins in which to wrap the stationery, as they would be needed there to make bags
for carrying gold-dust. Upon this suggestion, I bought a dozen skins for ten dollars. On unpacking
my trunk, in Marysville, these chamois skins were of course exposed, and a gentleman calling
at the tent, which I then occupied, asked me what I would take for them. I answered by inquiring
what he would give for them. He replied at once, an ounce apiece. My astonishment nearly choked
me, for an ounce was taken for sixteen dollars; at the mint, it often yielded eighteen or nineteen
dollars in coin. I, of course, let the skins go, and blessed the hunter who brought the chamois
down. The purchaser made bags of the skins, and the profit to him from their sale amounted
to two ounces on each skin. From this transaction, the story arose that I had sold porte-monnaies
in Marysville before practising law, which is reported in the interesting book of Messrs. Barry
and Patten, entitled "Men and Memories of San Francisco in the Spring of 1850." The story has
no other foundation.

But I am digressing from the narrative of my first experience in San Francisco. After taking
my breakfast, as already stated, the first thing I noticed was a small building in the Plaza,
near which a crowd was gathered. Upon inquiry, I was told it was the court-house. I at once
started for the building, and on entering it, found that Judge Almond, of the San Francisco
District, was holding what was known as the Court of First Instance, and that a case was on
trial. To my astonishment I saw two of my fellow-passengers, who had landed the night before,
sitting on the jury. This seemed so strange that I waited till the case was over, and then
inquired how it happened they were there. They said that they had been attracted to the building
by the crowd, just as I had been, and that while looking on the proceedings of the court the
sheriff had summoned them. They replied to the summons, that they had only just arrived in
the country. But he said that fact made no difference; nobody had been in the country three
months. They added that they had received eight dollars each for their services. At this piece
of news I thought of my solitary dollar, and wondered if similar good fortune might not happen
to me. So I lingered in the court-room, placing myself near the sheriff in the hope that on
another jury he might summon me. But it was not my good luck. So I left the temple of justice
and strolled around the busy city, enjoying myself with the novelty of everything. Passing
down Clay street, and near Kearney street, my attention was attracted by a sign in large letters,
"Jonathan D. Stevenson, Gold Dust Bought and Sold Here." As I saw this inscription I exclaimed,
"Hallo, here is good luck," for I suddenly recollected that when I left New York my brother
Dudley had handed me a note against Stevenson for $350 or $400; stating that he understood
the Colonel had become rich in California, and telling me, that if such were the case, to ask
him to pay the note. I had put the paper in my pocket-book and thought no more of it until
the sight of the sign brought it to my recollection, and also reminded me of my solitary dollar.
Of course I immediately entered the office to see the Colonel. He had known me very well in
New York, and was apparently delighted to see me, for he gave me a most cordial greeting. After
some inquiries about friends in New York, he commenced talking about the country. "Ah," he
continued, "it is a glorious country. I have made two hundred thousand dollars." This was more
than I could stand. I had already given him a long shake of the hand but I could not resist
the impulse to shake his hand again, thinking all the time of my financial condition. So I
seized his hand again and shook it vigorously, assuring him that I was delighted to hear of
his good luck. We talked over the matter, and in my enthusiasm I shook his hand a third time,
expressing my satisfaction at his good fortune. We passed a long time together, he dilating
all the while upon the fine country it was in which to make money. At length I pulled out the
note and presented it to him. I shall never forget the sudden change, from wreaths of smiles
to an elongation of physiognomy, expressive of mingled surprise and disgust, which came over
his features on seeing that note. He took it in his hands and examined it carefully; he turned
it over and looked at its back, and then at its face again, and then, as it were, at both sides
at once. At last he said in a sharp tone, "That's my signature," and began to calculate the
interest; that ascertained, he paid me the full amount due. If I remember rightly he paid me
$440 in Spanish doubloons, but some of it may have been in gold dust. If it had not been for
this lucky incident, I should have been penniless before night.

