PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 159.

July 7th, 1920.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TIMON.

About a month ago we lost our dog. I can't describe him, although I have tried from time to
time; but Elaine, my wife, said I should not speak in that fashion of a dumb animal. He stands
about two hands high, is of a reseda-green shade, except when in anger, and has no distinguishing
marks except the absence of a piece of the right ear, which was carried off by a marauding
Irish terrier. He answers with a growl to many names, including that of Timon. He will also
answer to a piece of raw meat, another dog or a postman.

I do not know if dogs can be said to have a hobby; if so, Timon's hobby is postmen. He studies
them closely. In fact I should not be surprised if he comes to write a monograph on them some day.

As soon as one of them has daringly passed the entrance gates of Bellevue, Timon trots forth
like a reception committee to meet him. He studies the bunch of communications that the visitor
bears in his hand. If they are all right--cheques from publishers, editors and missing-heir
merchants, invitations to tea and tennis or dinner and dominoes, requests for autographs--Timon
nods and allows the postman to pass unscathed. On the other hand, if the collection includes
rejected manuscripts, income or other tax demand notes, tracts or circulars, then I hear the
low growl with which Timon customarily goes into action, and the next moment the postman is
making for the neighbouring county and taking a four-foot gate in his stride.

Consequently it is to be anticipated that if the Olympic Games are ever held in our neighbourhood
the sprint and the hurdles will be simply at the mercy of our local post-office. They take
no credit for it. It is simply practice, they say.

But, to return to the main subject, we have lost Timon. One month has passed without his cheery
presence at Bellevue. Reckless postmen have made themselves free of the front garden and all
colour has gone out of life.

We have done everything to win him back. We have inserted numerous advertisements in the agony
columns of the newspapers: "If this should catch the eye of Timon," or "Come back, Timon. All
will be forgiven;" but apparently we have yet to find his favourite newspaper.

We began with the well-known canine papers, trusting vainly that he might happen to glance
through them some day when he was a bit bored or hadn't an engagement. After that we went through
The Times, The Morning Post (he's strongly anti-Bolshevik), The Daily News (his views on vivisection
are notorious) and other dailies, and then took to the weeklies.

We had strong hopes for a time that The Meat Trade Review would find him. Timon is fond of
raw meat. But failure again resulted. We have now reached Syren and Shipping and The Ironmongers'
Gazette and--

       *       *       *       *       *

I must stop here to inform you of the glad news. Elaine has just hurried in to tell me that
Timon has replied and will be back to-morrow.

How did we catch his eye? Well, of course we should have thought of it before. It was The Post
Office Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROMANCE OF BOOKMAKING.

A VISIT TO MESSRS. PRYCE UNLTD.

(With acknowledgments in the right quarter.)

A gigantic commissionaire flings wide the doors for us and, passing reverently inside, we are
confronted by the magnificent equestrian statue of Mr. Bookham Pryce, the founder of the firm.
This masterpiece of the Post-Cubist School was originally entitled, "Niobe Weeping for her
Children," but the gifted artist, in recognition of Mr. Pryce's princely offer of one thousand
guineas for the group, waived his right to the title.

On the left we see the Foreign Department. Here we watch with rapt attention the arrival of
countless business telegrams from all parts of the world. We choose one or two at random and
see for ourselves the ramifications of Pryce's far-flung booking service. This one from China:
"Puttee fifty taels Boko Lanchester Cup;" another from distant Siberia, emerging from the primeval
forests of that wondrous land of the future: "Tenbobski Quitter Ebury Handicap." Bets are accepted
in all denominations from Victory Bonds to the cowrie-shells of West Africa.

Passing up the marble staircase and leaving the Home Department on our right we arrive at the
Stumer Section. Here a small army of ex-Scotland Yard detectives are engaged in dealing with
malâ-fide commissions-- attempts on the part of men of straw to make credit bets, or telegrams
despatched after a race is over.

Where shall we go next? We ask a courteous shopwalker, who in flawless English advises us to
try the Winter Gardens, where a delightful tea is served at a minimum cost. Here, whilst sipping
a fragrant cup of Orange Pekoe, we can watch the large screen, on which the results of all
races are flashed within ten seconds of the horses passing the winning-post. At one time, in
fact, it was nothing unusual for Pryce's to have the results posted before the horses had completed
the course, but in deference to the prejudices of certain purists this practice was abandoned.

Follows a hurried visit to the Library and Museum, where we gaze enthralled at the original
pair of pigeon-blue trousers with which Mr. Bookham Pryce made his sensational début on the
Lincoln course in the spring of 1894. We might linger here a moment to muse over the simple
beginnings of great men, but time is pressing and we are all agog to visit the Bargain Basement.

An express lift flashes us downwards in a few seconds and behold we are in the midst of rows
of counters groaning under bargains that even the New Poor can scarce forbear to grasp.

Here, for example, is one-hundred-to-eight offered against Pincushion for the Gimcrack Stakes.
This wondrous animal's lineage and previous performances are carefully tabulated on a card
at the side, and, remembering the form he showed at Gatwick, one wonders, as the man in the
street would say, how it is done.

Or look at Tom-tom, which left the others simply standing in a field of forty-four at Kempton
Park, and carrying eight-stone-seven. Here he has a paltry four-pound penalty for the Worcester
Welter Handicap, yet one can have seven to one about him.

How the House of Pryce can offer such bargains is a mystery to the old school of red-necked
bookmakers, whose Oxford accent was not pronounced. They fail to see what courtesy, urbanity
and meat-teas at three shillings per head can do in the way of stimulating business.

From the Bargain Basement we wander at will through the remaining departments, making inquiries
here and there from the expert assistants, technically known as laymen, without being once
importuned to make a bet.

And when at length, refreshed and pleased with a delightful afternoon, we pass again through
the portals of the House of Pryce, we make for home, confirmed supporters of the modern personal
touch, which has transformed a drab business into a veritable romance.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR OPTIMISTIC ADVERTISERS.

    "Will Person who took Gent.'s Trenchcoat by mistake whilst motor-cycle
    was on fire in ---- Rd., on Wednesday night, please return same."--
    Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Alec Herd, who went round in 72, and who is one of the old school, was
    second in the Open Championship no fewer than 28 years ago, and won it
    as far back as 19042."--Provincial Paper.

B.C., of course.

       *       *       *       *       *

