If a contrast formerly appeared to exist between "Individualist" and "State Socialist" reformers,
it was never more than a contrast in theory, quickly dispelled when the time for action arrived.
The individualist radical would have the State do as little as possible, but still is compelled
to resort to an increase of its powers at every turn; the "State Socialist" would have the
State do as much as practicable, but would still retain State action within the rigid limits
imposed by the need of gaining capitalist support and the desire for immediate political success.
In economic policy the Individualist is for checking the excess of monopoly and special privilege
in order to allow "equal opportunity" or a free development to whatever competition or "natural
Capitalism" remains, while the "State Socialist" is more concerned with protecting and promoting
the natural checking of the excesses of competitive capitalism and private property that comes
with "natural monopoly" and its regulation by government. The "State Socialist," however critical
he is towards competition, recognizes that the first practical possibility of putting an end
to its excesses comes when monopoly is already established, and when it is relatively easy
for the State to step in to nationalize or municipalize; the Individualist reformer who wishes
to preserve competition where practicable, at the same time recognizes that it is impossible
to do so where monopolies have become firmly rooted in certain industries, and he also at this
point proposes nationalization, municipalization, or thoroughgoing governmental control.

Henry George himself recognizes that "State Socialism," which he called simply "Socialism,"
and the "natural Capitalism" he advocated, far from being contradictory, were complementary
and interdependent. Mr. Louis Post says:--

     "Even in the economic chapters of 'Progress and Poverty' its author
     saw the possibility of society's approaching the 'ideal of
     Jeffersonian Democracy, the promised land of Herbert Spencer, the
     abolition of government. But of government only as a directing and
     repressive power.' At the same time and in the same degree of
     approach, he regarded it as possible for society also to realize
     the dream of Socialism."[27]

The following passage leaves no doubt that Mr. Post is correct, and at the same time shows
in the clearest way how the two policies of reform were interwoven in Henry George's mind:--

     "Government could take up itself the transmission of messages by
     telegraph, as well as by mail, of building and operating railroads,
     as well as of the opening and maintaining common roads. With the
     present functions so simplified and reduced, functions such as
     these could be assumed without danger or strain, and would be under
     the supervision of public attention, which is now distracted. There
     would be a great and increasing surplus revenue from the taxation
     of land values for material progress, which would go on with great
     accelerated rapidity, would tend constantly to increase rent. This
     revenue arising from the common property would be applied to the
     common benefit, as were the revenues of Sparta. We might not
     establish public tables--they would be unnecessary, but we could
     establish public baths, museums, libraries, gardens, lecture rooms,
     music and dancing halls, theaters, universities, technical schools,
     shooting galleries, playgrounds, gymnasiums, etc. Heat, light, and
     motive power, as well as water, might be conducted through our
     streets at public expense; our roads be lined with fruit trees;
     discoveries and inventors rewarded, scientific investigation
     supported; in a thousand ways the public revenues made to foster
     efforts for the public benefit. We should reach the ideal of the
     Socialist, but not through government repression. Government
     would change its character, and would become the administration of
     a great coöperative society. It would become merely the agency by
     which the common property was administered for the common
     benefit." (Italics mine.)[28]

But the "State Socialist" and the Individualist reformer, who are often combined in one person,
as in the case of Henry George, differ sharply from Socialists of the Socialist movement in
aiming at a society, which, however widely government action is to be extended, is after all
to remain a society of small capitalists.

Professor Edward A. Ross very aptly sums up the reformer's objections to the anti-capitalist
Socialists. Capitalism must be "divested of its perversions," the privately owned monopolies
and their political machines, primarily for the purpose of strengthening it against Socialism.
"Individualism should make haste to clean the hull of the old ship for the coming great battle
with the opponents of private capital...."[29] The reformers, as a rule, like Professor Ross,
consciously stand for a new form of private capitalism, to be built up with the aid of the
State. This is the avowed attitude of the larger part of the "progressives," "radicals," and
"insurgents" of the day.

The new reform programs, however radical, are aimed at regenerating capitalism. The most radical
of all, that of the single taxers, who plan not only that the state shall be the sole landlord,
but that the railways and the mines shall be nationalized and other public utilities municipalized,
do not deny that they want to put a new life into private capitalism, and to stimulate commercial
competition in the remaining fields of industry. Mr. Frederick C. Howe, for instance, predicts
a revival of capitalistic enterprise, after these measures are enacted, and even looks forward
to the indefinite continuation of the struggle between capital and labor.[30]

FOOTNOTES:

[9] The Socialist Review (London), April, 1909.

[10] The New Age (London), Nov. 4, 1909.

[11] Edward Bernstein, "Evolutionary Socialism," p. 154.

[12] Winston Churchill, "Liberalism and the Social Problem," p. 345.

[13] H. G. Wells, "New Worlds for Old," p. 185.

[14] Winston Churchill, op. cit., p. 80.

[15] Winston Churchill, op. cit., pp. 326, 327.

[16] Winston Churchill, op. cit., pp. 326.

[17] Winston Churchill, op. cit., p. 396.

[18] Winston Churchill, op. cit., p. 399.

[19] Winston Churchill, op. cit., p. 336.

[20] Winston Churchill, op. cit., p. 339.

[21] Lloyd George, "Better Times," p. 163.

[22] Lloyd George, op. cit., pp. 94-101.

[23] Lloyd George, op. cit., p. 58.

[24] Lloyd George, op. cit., p. 174.

[25] Lord Rosebery's Speech at Glasgow, Sept. 10, 1909.

[26] Louis F. Post, "Social Service," p. 341.

[27] The Public (Chicago), Nov. 4, 1910.

[28] Henry George, "Progress and Poverty," Book IV, p. 454.

[29] Professor E. A. Ross, "Sin and Society," p. 151.

[30] Frederick C. Howe, "Privilege and Democracy in America," p. 277.

CHAPTER II

THE NEW CAPITALISM

President Taft says that if we cannot restore competition, "we must proceed to State Socialism
and vest the government with power to control every business." As competition cannot be revived
in industries that have been reorganized on a monopolistic basis, this is an admission that,
in such industries, there is no alternative to "State Socialism."

The smaller capitalists and business interests have not yet reconciled themselves, any more
than President Taft, to what the Supreme Court, in the Standard Oil Case, called "the inevitable
operation of economic forces," and are just beginning to see that the only way to protect the
industries that remain on the competitive basis is to have the government take charge of those
that have already been monopolized. But the situation in Panama and Alaska and the growing
control over railroads and banks show that the United States is being swept along in the world-wide
tide towards collectivism, and innumerable symptoms of change in public opinion indicate that
within a few years the smaller capitalists of the United States, like those of Germany and
Great Britain, will be working with the economic forces instead of trying to work against them.
Monopolies, they are beginning to see, cannot be destroyed by private competition, even when
it is encouraged by the legislation and the courts, and must be controlled by the government.
But government regulation is no lasting condition. If investors and consumers are to be protected,
wage earners will most certainly be protected also--as Mr. Roosevelt advocates. And from government
control of wages, prices, and securities it is not a long step to government ownership.

The actual disappearance of competition and the growing harmony of all the business interests
among themselves are removing every motive for continued opposition to some form of State control,--and
even the more far-sighted of the "Captains of Industry," like Judge Gary of the Steel Corporation
and many others, are beginning to see how the new policy and their own plans can be made to
harmonize. The "Interests" have only recently become sufficiently united, however, to make
a common political effort, and it is only after mature deliberation that the more statesmanlike
of the capitalists are beginning to feel confident that they have found a political plan that
will succeed. As long as the business world was itself fundamentally divided, small capitalists
against large, one industry against the other, and even one establishment against another in
the same industry, it was impossible for the capitalists to secure any united control over
the government. The lack of organization, the presence of competition at every point, made
it impossible that they should agree upon anything but a negative political policy.

But now that business is gradually becoming politically as well as economically unified, government
ownership and the other projects of "State Socialism" are no longer opposed on the ground that
they must necessarily prove unprofitable to capital. If their introduction is delayed, it is
at the bottom because they will require an enormous investment, and other employments of capital
are still more immediately profitable. Machinery, land, and other material factors still demand
enormous outlays and give immediate returns, while investments in reforestation or in the improvement
of laborers, for example, only bring their maximum returns after a full generation. But the
semi-monopolistic capitalism of to-day is far richer than was its competitive predecessor.
It can now afford to date a part of its expected returns many years ahead. Already railroads
have done this in building some of their extensions. Nations have often done it, as in building
a Panama Canal. And as capitalism becomes further organized and gives more attention to government,
and the State takes up such functions as the capitalists direct, they will double and multiply
many fold their long-term governmental investments--in the form of expenditures for industrial
activities and social reforms.

Already leading capitalists in this country as well as elsewhere welcome the extension of government
into the business field. The control of the railroads by a special court over which the railroads
have a large influence proves to be just what the railroads have wanted, while there is a growing
belief among them, to which their directors and officers occasionally give expression, that
the day may come, perhaps with the competition of the Panama Canal, when it will be profitable
to sell out to the government--at a good, round figure, of course, such as was recently paid
for railroads in France and Italy. Similarly the new wireless systems are leading to a capitalistic
demand for government purchase of the old telegraph systems.

Mr. George W. Perkins, recently partner of Mr. J. P. Morgan, foreshadows the new policy in
another form when he advocates a Supreme Court of Business (as a preventive of Socialism):--

     "Federal legislation is feasible, and if we unite the work for it
     now we may be able to secure it; whereas, if we continue to fight
     against it much longer, the incoming time may sweep the question
     along either to government ownership or to Socialism [Mr. Perkins
     recognizes that they are two different things].

     "I have long believed that we should have at Washington a business
     court, to which our great problems would go for final adjustment
     when they could not be settled otherwise. We now have at Washington
     a Supreme Court, composed, of course, of lawyers only, and it is
     the dream of every young man who enters law that he may some day be
     called to the Supreme Court bench. Why not have a similar goal for
     our business men? Why not have a court for business questions, on
     which no man could sit who has not had a business training with an
     honorable record? The supervision of business by such a body of
     men, who had reached such a court in such a way, would
     unquestionably be fair and equitable to business, fair and
     equitable to the public." (Italics mine.)

Mr. Roosevelt and Senator Root are similarly inspired by the quasi-partnership that exists
between the government and business in those countries where prices and wages in certain monopolized
industries are regulated for the general good of the business interests. In the words of Mr.
Root:--

     "Germany, to a considerable extent, requires combination of her
     manufacturers, producers, and commercial concerns. Japan also
     practically does this. But in the United States it cannot be done
     under government leadership, because the people do not conceive it
     to be the government's function. It seems to be rather that the
     government is largely taken up with breaking up organizations, and
     that reduces the industrial efficiency of the country."

As the great interests become "integrated," i.e. more and more interrelated and interdependent,
the good of one becomes the good of all, and the policy of utilizing and controlling, instead
of opposing the new industrial activities of the government, is bound to become general. The
enlightened element among the capitalists, composed of those who desire a partnership rather
than warfare with the government, will soon represent the larger part of the business world.

Mr. Lincoln Steffens reflects the views of many, however, when he denies that the financial
magnates are as yet guided by this "enlightened selfishness," and says that they are only just
becoming "class-conscious," and it is true that they have not yet worked out any elaborate
policy of social reform or government ownership. None but the most powerful are yet able, even
in their minds, to make the necessary sacrifices of the capitalism of the present for that
of the future. The majority (as he says) still "undermine the law" instead of more firmly intrenching
themselves in the government, and "corrupt the State" instead of installing friendly reform
administrations; they still "employ little children, and so exhaust them that they are poor
producers when they grow up," instead of making them strong and healthy and teaching them skill
at their trades; they still "don't want all the money they make, don't care for things they
buy, and don't all appreciate the power they possess and bestow." But all these are passing
characteristics. If it took less than twenty years to build up the corporations until the present
community of interests almost forms a trust of trusts, how long, we may ask, will it take the
new magnates to learn to "appreciate" their power? How long will it take them to learn to enter
into partnership with the government instead of corrupting it from without, and to see that,
if they don't want to increase the wages and buying power of the workers, "who, as consumers,
are the market," the evident and easy alternative is to learn new ways of spending their own
surplus? The example of the Astors and the Vanderbilts on the one hand, and Mr. Rockefeller's
Benevolent Trust, on the other, show that these ways are infinitely varied and easily learned.
Will it take the capitalists longer to learn to use the government for their purposes rather
than to abuse it?

It is neither necessary nor desirable, from the standpoint of an enlightened capitalism, that
the control of government should rest entirely in the hands of "Big Business," or the "Interests."
On the contrary, it is to the interest of capital that all capitalists, and all business interests
of any permanence, should be given consideration, no matter how small they may be. The smaller
interests have often acted with "Big Business,"--under its leadership, but as industrial activities
and destinies are more and more transferred to the political field, the smaller capitalist
becomes rather a junior partner than a mere follower. Consolidation and industrial panics have
taught him his lesson, and he is at last beginning to organize and to demand his share of profits
at the only point where he has a chance to get it, i.e. through the new "State Socialism."
Moreover, he is going to have a large measure of success, as the political situation in this
country and the actual experience of other countries show. And in proportion as the relations
between large and small business become more cordial and better organized, they may launch
this government, within a few years, into the capitalist undertakings so far-reaching and many-sided
that the half billion expended on the Panama Canal will be forgotten as the small beginning
of the new movement.

It is true that for the moment the stupendous wealth and power of the "Large Interests," already
more or less consolidated, threaten to overwhelm the rest. Mr. Steffens does not overstate
when he says:--

     "To state correctly in billions of dollars the actual value of all
     the property represented in this community of interests, might
     startle the imagination to some sense of the magnitude of the
     wealth of these men. But money is no true measure of power. The
     total capitalization of all they own would not bring home to us the
     influence of Morgan and his associates, direct and indirect, honest
     and corrupt, over presidents and Congresses; governors and
     legislators; in both political parties and over our political
     powers. And no figures would remind us of their standing at the bar
     and in the courts; with the press, the pulpit, the colleges,
     schools, and in society. And even if all their property and all
     their power could be stated in exact terms, it would not show their
     relative wealth and strength. We must not ask how much they have.
     We must ask how much they haven't got."[31]

But over against this economic power the small capitalists, farmers, shopkeepers, landlords,
and small business men, have a political power that is equally overwhelming. Until the "trusts"
came into being, no issue united this enormous mass. Yet they are still capitalists, and what
they want, except the few who still dream of competing with the "trusts," is not to annihilate
the latter's power, but to share it. The "trusts," on the other hand, are seeing that common
action with the small capitalists, costly as it may be economically, may be made to pay enormously
on the political field by putting into the hands of their united forces all the powers of governments.

If the principle of economic union and consolidation has made the great capitalists so strong,
what will be the result of this political union of all capitalists? How much greater will be
their power over government, courts, politics, the press, the pulpit, and the schools and colleges!

It is not the "trusts" that society has to fear, nor the consolidation of the "trusts," but
the organized action of all "Interests," of "Big Business" and "Small Business," that is, of
Capitalism.

A moment's examination will show that there is every reason to expect this outcome. Broadly
considered, there is no such disparity between large capitalists and small, either in wealth
and power, as at first appears. All the accounts of the tendency towards monopoly have been
written, not in the name of non-capitalists, but in that of small capitalists. Otherwise we
might see that these two forces, interwoven in interest at nearly every point, are also well
matched and likely to remain so. And we should see also that it is inconceivable that they
will long escape the law of social evolution, stronger than ever to-day, toward organization,
integration, consolidation.

Messrs. Moody and Turner, for example, finished a well-weighed study of the general tendencies
of large capital in this country with the following conclusion:--

     "Through all these channels and hundreds more, the central machine
     of capital extends its control over the United States. It is not
     definitely organized in any way. But common interest makes it one
     great unit--the 'System,' so called.

     "It sits in Wall Street, a central power, directing the inevitable
     drift of great industry toward monopoly. And as the industries one
     after another come into it for control, it divides the wealth
     created by them. To the producer, steady conditions of labor; to
     the investor, stable securities, sure of paying interest; to the
     maker of monopolies and their allies, the increment of wealth of
     the continent, and with it the gathering control of all mechanical
     industry."[32] (My italics.)

Certainly the fundamental social questions in any country at any time are: Who gets the increment
of wealth? Who controls industry? No objection can be taken to the facts or reasoning of this
and some of the other studies of the "trusts"--as far as they go. What vitiates not only their
conclusions, but the whole work, is that written from the standpoint of the small capitalists,
they forget that the "trusts" are only part of a larger whole.

The increment of wealth that has gone to large capital in this country in the census period
1900-1910 is certainly less than what has gone to small capital. Farm lands and buildings have
increased in value by $18,000,000,000, while the increased wealth in farm animals, crops, and
machinery will bring the total far above $20,000,000,000. The increase in city lands and houses
other than owned homes, which has not been less than that of the country in recent years, must
be reckoned at many billions, and these, like the farm lands, are only to a small degree in
the hands of the "Trusts." Even allowing for the more modest insurance policies, and savings
bank accounts, as belonging in part to non-capitalists, small capitalists have piled up many
new billions within the same decade, in the form of bank deposits, good-sized investments in
insurance companies, in government, municipal, and railway bonds, bank stock, and other securities.
No doubt the chief owners of the banks, railways, and "trusts" have increased their wealth
by several billions within the same period, but this is only a fraction of the increased wealth
of the smaller capitalists. It is not true, then, that "the increment of wealth of the continent"
has gone to--"the makers of monopolies and their allies."

Let us now examine the question of the control of industry from this broader standpoint. It
is admitted that the direct control of the "Interests" extends only over "mechanical industry"--not
over agriculture. We have seen that it does not extend over the mine of wealth that lies in
city lands, nor over large masses of capital more and more adequately protected by the government.
It might be said that by their strategic position in industry the large capitalists control
indirectly both agriculture, city growth, savings banks and government. This would be true
were it not for the fact that as soon as we turn from the economic to the political field we
find that not only in this country, but also in Europe nearly all the strategical positions
are held by the small capitalists. They outnumber the large capitalists and their retainers
ten to one, and they hold the political balance of power between these and the propertyless
classes. The control of industry and the control of government being in the long run one and
the same, the only course left to the large capitalists is to compromise with the small, and
the common organization of centralized and decentralized capital with the aid and protection
of government is assured.

The fact that, for the masses of mankind, capitalism is the enemy, and not "Big Business,"
is then obscured by the warfare of the small capitalists against the large. Perhaps nowhere
in the world and at no time in history has this conflict taken on a more definite or acute
form than it has recently in this country. So intense is the campaign of the smaller interests,
and it is being fought along such broad lines that it often seems to be directed against capitalism
itself. The masses of the people, even of the working classes, in America and Great Britain
have yet no conception of the real war against capitalism, as carried on by the Socialists
of Continental Europe, and it seems to them that this new small capitalist radicalism amounts
practically to the same thing.

The "Insurgents," it is true, differ fundamentally from the Populists of ten and twenty years
ago, in so far they understand fully that in many fields competition cannot be restored, that
the large corporations cannot be dissolved into small ones and must be regulated or owned by
the government, because they have deserted the Jeffersonian maxim that "that government is
best that governs least."

"With the growing complexity of our social and business relations," says La Follette's Weekly,
"a great extension of governmental functions has been necessary. The authority of State and
nation reaches out in numberless and hitherto unknown forms affecting and regulating our daily
lives, our occupations, our earning power, and our cost of living. The need for this intervention,
for collective action by the people through their duly constituted government, to preserve
and promote their own welfare, is a need that is growing more and more important and imperative
to meet the rapidly growing power of commerce, industry and finance, centralized and organized
in the hands of a few men."

This is nothing more nor less than the creed of capitalist collectivism. The analysis of the
present political situation of the Insurgents is not only collectivist, but, in a sense, revolutionary.
After describing how "Big Business," controls both industry and politics, La Follette says:--

     "This thing has gone on and on in city, State, and nation, until
     to-day the paramount power in our land is not a Democracy, not a
     Republic, but an Autocracy of centralized, systemized, industrial
     and financial power. 'Government of the people, by the people, and
     for the people' has perished from the earth in the United States
     of America."

An editorial in McClure's Magazine (July, 1911) draws a similar picture and frankly applies
the term, "State Socialism," to the great reforms that are pending:--

     "Two great social organizations now confront each other in the
     United States--political democracy and the corporation. Both are
     yet new,--developments, in their present form, of the past two
     hundred years,--and the laws of neither are understood. The entire
     social and economic history of the world is now shaping itself
     around the struggle for dominance between them....

     "The problem presented by this situation is the most difficult that
     any modern nation has faced; and the odds, up to the present time,
     have all been with the corporations. Property settles by economic
     law in strong hands; it has unlimited rewards for service, and the
     greatest power in the world--the power of food and drink, life and
     death--over mankind. Corporate property in the last twenty years
     has been welded into an instrument of almost infinite power,
     concentrated in the hands of a very few and very able men.

     "Sooner or later the so far unchecked tendency toward monopoly in
     the United States must be met squarely by the American people....

     "The problem of the relation of the State and the corporation is
     now the chief question of the world. In Europe the State is
     relatively much stronger; in America, the corporation. In Europe
     the movement towards Socialism--collective ownership and operation
     of the machinery of industry and transportation--is far on its way;
     in America we are moving to control the corporation by political
     instruments, such as State Boards and the Interstate Commerce
     Commission....

     "And if corporate centralization of power continues unchecked, what
     is the next great popular agitation to be in this country? For
     State Socialism?"

When a treaty of peace is made between "Big Business" and the smaller capitalists under such
leadership as La Follette's, we may be certain that it will not amount merely to a swallowing
up of the small fish by the large. The struggle waged according to La Follette's principles
is not a mere bid for political power and the spoils of office, but a real political warfare
that can only end by recognition of the small capitalist's claims in business and politics--in
so far as they relate, not to the restoration of competition, but to government ownership or
control. As early as 1905, when governor of Wisconsin, La Follette said:--

"It must always be borne in mind that the contest between the State and the corporate powers
is a lasting one.... It must always be remembered that their attitude throughout is one of
hostility to this legislation, and that if their relation to the law after it is enacted is
to be judged by the attitude towards the Interstate Commerce Law, it will be one of continued
effort to destroy its efficiency and nullify its provision." Events have shown that he was
right in his predictions, and his idea that the war against monopolies must last until they
are deprived of their dominant position in politics is now widely accepted.

The leading demands of the small capitalists, in so far as they are independently organized
in this new movement, are now for protection, as buyers, sellers, investors, borrowers, and
taxpayers against the "trusts," railways, and banks. Formerly they invariably took up the cause
of the capitalist competitors and would-be competitors of the "Interests"--and millionaires
and corporations of the second magnitude were lined up politically with the small capitalists,
as, for example, silver mine owners, manufacturers who wanted free raw material, cheaper food
(with lower wages), and foreign markets at any price,--from pseudo-reciprocity to war,--importing
merchants, competitors of the trusts, tobacco, beer, and liquor interests bent on decreasing
their taxes, etc.

The great novelty of the "Insurgent" movement is that, in dissociating itself from Free Silver,
Free Trade, and the proposal to destroy the "trusts," it has succeeded in getting rid of nearly
all the "Interests" that have wrecked previous small capitalist movements. At the same time,
it has all but abandoned the old demagogic talk about representing the citizen as consumer
against the citizen as producer. It frankly avows its intention to protect the ultimate consumer,
not against small capitalist producers (e.g. its opposition to Canadian reciprocity and cheaper
food), but solely against the monopolies. Indeed, the protection of the ultimate consumer against
monopolies is clearly made incidental to the protection of the small capitalist consumer-producer.
The wage earner consumes few products of the Steel Trust, the farmer and small manufacturers,
many. Nor does the new movement propose to destroy the "trusts" by free trade even in the articles
they produce, but merely to control prices by lower tariffs. With the abandonment of the last
of the "Interests" and at the same time of the "consumers" that they use as a cloak, the new
movement promises for the first time a fairly independent and lasting political organization
of the smaller capitalists.

While Senator La Follette is the leading general of the new movement, either Ex-President Roosevelt
or Governor Woodrow Wilson seems destined to become its leading diplomatist. While Senator
La Follette declares for a fight to the finish, and shows that he knows how to lead and organize
such a fight, Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Wilson are giving their attention largely to peace terms
to be demanded of the enemy, and the diplomatic attitude to be assumed in the negotiations.
Perhaps it is too early for such peaceful thoughts, and premature talk of this kind may eliminate
these leaders as negotiators satisfactory to the small capitalists. Their interest for my present
purpose is that they probably foreshadow the attitude that will finally be assumed when the
large "Interests" see that they must make terms.

Mr. Wilson's language is at times so conciliatory as to create doubt whether or not he will
stand with Senator La Follette and the Republican "Insurgents" for the whole of the small capitalist's
program, but it leaves no doubt that, if he lives up to his declared principles, he must aim
at the government regulation, not of "Big Business" merely, but of all business--as when he
says that "business is no longer in any sense a private matter."

     "We are dealing, in our present discussion," he said in an address,
     delivered in December, 1910, "with business, and we are dealing
     with life as an organic whole, and modern politics is an
     accommodation of these two. Suppose we define business as economic
     service of society for private profit, and suppose we define
     politics as the accommodation of all social forces, the forces of
     business, of course, included, to the common interest." (My
     italics.)

It is evident that if the community gains by an extended control over business, that business
gains at least as much by its claim to be recognized as a public service. And this Mr. Wilson
makes very emphatic:--

     "Business must be looked upon, not as the exploitation of society,
     not as its use for private ends, but as its sober service; and
     private profit must be regarded as legitimate only when it is in
     fact a reward for what is veritably serviceable,--serviceable to
     interests which are not single but common, as far as they go; and
     politics must be the discovery of this common interest, in order
     that the service may be tested and exacted.

