We were just finishing hoeing the corn, the second time, that afternoon, and had only a few
rows more. With an air of one who has a mission and a duty to perform, Ellen approached where
we were at work and said, "We want you to come down to the south field this minute!"

"What for?" asked Addison.

"A good reason," replied Ellen, with an accent of suppressed scorn. "Kate and Doad sent me."

"What is it?" persisted Addison.

"Some of your fine works," said Ellen. "And you just come straight along and see it."

"We won't go unless you tell," replied Halse.

"Oh, you won't!" exclaimed Ellen severely. "Great wood-chuck hunters you are!" At the word
wood-chuck we began to feel interested, and at length so far obeyed Ellen's iterated summons
as to follow after her to the south field.

"Well, what's wanted?" demanded Addison, addressing himself to Theodora, as we drew near.

"I want you to see just what a cruel boy you are!" she replied. "There's one of the wood-chucks
that you pretend to shoot so cutely. Go look at him, right under the clover there by that stone.
Look at his poor little eyes all burned out, you cruel fellow!"

Not a little dumbfounded by this blast of indignation, thus suddenly let loose upon us, we
drew near and examined the crouching chuck. It was really a rueful spectacle,--the disabled
and trembling creature trying in vain to see where its enemies were gathered about it.

"I didn't think you were such a cruel boy!" exclaimed Catherine, sarcastically. "Alf Batchelder
might do such a thing. He is hateful enough always. But I didn't think it of you."

"Well, I shot at him," exclaimed Addison. "I thought I had killed him, you know."

"Oh yes, you did think, did you!" cried Catherine. "How would you like to have some one come
along to your door or your chamber window, and speak to you to come out; and then when you
stepped to the door to see what was wanted, to have them fire powder in your face and burn
your eyes out! How would you like that?"

"I don't think I would like it," replied Addison, laughing.

"Now I wouldn't laugh," said Theodora, whose feelings, indeed, had been wrought upon to the
point of tears as she watched the blinded creature. "You ought not to have such a hard heart.
I didn't think you had, once," she added reproachfully.

"Oh, he is just like all the rest of the boys," exclaimed Kate. "No, he isn't," said Theodora,
wiping her eyes.

"They are all alike," persisted Kate. "Always killing and torturing something."

"And all the girls are little saints," mimicked Halse.

"Oh, I'm not speaking to you!" cried Kate. "You're the Alf Batchelder sort. But I'm ashamed
of Addison, to treat any creature in that way!"

In short, those girls read us a dreadful lecture; they berated us hot and heavy. If we attempted
to reply and defend ourselves, they only lashed us the harder.

"Well, well," said Addison at length, picking up a club. "I'll put the creature out of its
misery, so that at least it will not be caught and worried by dogs."

"You sha'n't! You sha'n't kill the poor thing!" cried Ellen; and then finding that Addison
was about to do so, they all turned and ran away, without looking back.

Halstead was inclined to make light of the matter, and ridiculed the girls, but Addison did
not say much about it. I think he felt conscience-smitten, and I never knew him to attempt
to shoot a wood-chuck in that way afterwards.

CHAPTER XVII

HAYING TIME

It was the custom at the Old Squire's to begin "haying" on Monday after the Fourth of July.
What hot and sweaty memories are linked with that word, haying!

But haying in and of itself is a clean and pleasant kind of farm work, if only the farmers
would not rush it so relentlessly. As soon as haying begins, a demon of haste to finish in
a given number of days seems, or once seemed, to take possession of the American farmer. Thunder
showers goad him on; the fact that he has to pay two or even three dollars per day for his
hired help stimulates him to even greater exertions; and the net result is, that haying time
every year is a fiery ordeal from which the husbandman and his boys emerge sunburnt, brown
as bacon scraps and lean as the camels of Sahara, often with blood perniciously altered from
excessive perspiration and too copious water drinking. An erroneous idea has prevailed that
"sweating" is good for a man. Sometimes it is good, in case of colds or fevers. While unduly
exerting himself beneath a scorching sun, the farmer would no doubt perish if he did not perspire.
None the less, such copious sudation is an evil that wastefully saps vitality. Few farmers
go through twenty haying seasons without practically breaking down.

The hired man, too, has come to know that haying is the hardest work of the year and demands
nearly double the wages that he expected to receive for hoeing potatoes--far more disagreeable
work--the week before.

As a result of many inquiries, I learn that farmers' boys dread haying most of all farm work,
chiefly on account of the long hours, the hurry beneath the fervid July sun, and the heat of
the close lofts and mows where they have to stow away the hay. How many a lad, half-suffocated
by hay in these same hot mows and lofts, has made the resolve then and there never to be a
farmer--and kept it!

Is it not a serious mistake to harvest the hay crop on the hurry-and-rush principle? Why not
take a little more time for it? It is better to let a load of hay get wet than drive one's
self and one's helpers to the brink of sunstroke. It is better to begin a week earlier than
try to do two weeks' work in one. A day's work in haying should and can be so planned as to
give two hours' nooning in the hottest part of the day.

Gramp was an old-fashioned farmer, but he had seen the folly of undue haste exemplified too
many times not to have changed his earlier methods of work considerably; so much so, that he
now enjoyed the reputation of being an "easy man to work for." For several years he had employed
the same help.

On this bright Monday morning of July, the hay-fields smiled, luxuriant, blooming with clover,
herdsgrass, buttercup, daisy and timothy. There was the house field, the west field, the south
field, the middle field and the east field, besides the young orchard, the old orchard, the
Aunt Hannah lot and the Aunt Hannah meadow, which was left till the last, sixty-five acres
or more, altogether. What an expanse it looked to me! It was my first experience, but Addison
and Halse had forewarned me that we would have it hot in haying. I had already grown a little
inured to the sun during June, however; and in point of fact, I never afterwards suffered so
much from the sun rays as during those first attempts to hoe corn at the old farm in June.

One of the hired men was no less a personage than Elder Witham, who preached at the Chapel
every second week, and who, like the great apostle of the Gentiles, was not above working with
his hands, to piece out his small salary. He came Sunday evening, and I did not suppose that
he had come to work with us till the next morning, when, after prayers, he quietly fetched
his scythe and snath down from the wagon-house chamber, and called on Halstead to turn the
grindstone for him. I then learned that he had worked at haying for us three summers. The Elder
was fifty years old or more, and, though well-tanned, had yet a semi-clerical appearance. He
was austere in religious matters, and the hired men were very careful what they said before him.

The other two men, who came after breakfast, were brothers, named James and Asa Doane, or Jim
and Ase, as they were familiarly addressed.

I was reckoned too young to mow with a scythe, though Halse and Addison mowed for an hour or
two in the forenoon. I had plenty to do, however, raking, spreading, and stowing the hay in
the barn.

In haying time we boys were called at half-past four o'clock every morning, with the hired
men. It was our business to milk and do the barn chores before breakfast. Often, too, there
would be a load of hay, drawn in the previous evening, to stow away, in addition to the chores.

Mowing machines and horse-rakes had not then come into general use. All the mowing was done
with scythes, and the raking with hand rakes and "loafer" rakes. Generally, all hands would
be busy for three hours every bright afternoon, raking the grass which had been cut down in
the forenoon. The Old Squire and the Elder commonly raked side by side, and often fell into
argument on the subject of man's free moral agency, on which they held somewhat diverse views.
Upon the second afternoon, Asa Doane maneuvered to get them both into a yellow-backed bumble-bees'
nest, which was under an old stump in the hay.

The Elder was just saying, "I tell you, Squire, man was designed for--" when a yellow-back
stung him on his neck, and he finished his sentence with a rather funny exclamation! Another
insect punched Gramp at almost the same moment, and they had a lively time of it, brandishing
their rakes, and throwing the hay about. The others raked on, laughing inwardly without seeming
to notice their trouble.

But that night after supper, while we were grinding scythes, the Elder called Gramp out behind
the barn, and I overheard him very gravely ask, in an undertone, "Squire, when we were amongst
those bumble-bees, this afternoon, I hope I didn't say anything unbecoming a minister. I was
a reckless young man once, Squire; and even now, when anything comes acrost me sudden, like
those bumble-bees, the old words are a-dancing at my tongue's end before I know they are there.

"Because, if I did make a mistake," he continued, "I want to make public confession of it before
these young men."

But the Squire had been too busy with his own bumble-bees to remember. So the matter passed,
by default of evidence; but the Elder felt uneasy about it, and watched our faces pretty sharply
for a day or two.

The heat troubled me not a little, and I then knew no better than to drink inordinately of
cold water. I would drink every five minutes when I could get where there was water, even after
the Old Squire had pointed out to me the ill effects that follow such indulgence. But it seemed
to me that I must drink, and the more I drank the more I wanted, till by Friday of that first
week I was taken ill. Sharp pain is a severe yet often useful teacher. I was obliged to desist
from frequent potations, and Gram gave me some bits of snake-root to hold in my mouth and chew.

Both the Doanes were great jokers. There was something in the way of fun going on, nearly all
the time; either there was racing, while mowing, or raking the heels of the boys ahead of them.
They were brimming over with hay-makers' tricks, and I well remember what a prank they played
on me during the second week.

It befell while we were getting the south field, which was mostly in clover that summer. We
drew in the hay with both oxen and horses. When the former were employed, they were yoked to
a "rack," set midway on the axle of two large wheels. The rack would carry a ton or more of
hay. During the first week, they had several times set me to tread down the hay in the rack,
but I made a very bad job of loading it; for I did not know how to "lay the corners" of the load.

At length one afternoon, the Old Squire, observing my faults, climbed on the cart, and taking
the fork, showed me patiently how to begin at first, and how to lay the hay out at the sides
and ends of the rack, keeping the ends higher than the middle all the way up. He made it so
plain to me that I took a liking to that part of the work. I could not of course handle the
hay as well as a man, but I contrived to stow it quite well, for I had grasped the principle
of loading and managed to lay a fairly presentable load. As a result I grew a little over-confident,
and was inclined to boast of my skill and make somewhat rash statements as to the size of loads
which I could lay. The others probably saw that I needed discipline. I must have been dull,
or I should have been on my guard for set-backs from Halse, Addison, or the mischievous Doanes.
When a boy's head begins to grow large and his self-conceit to sprout, he is sometimes singularly
blind to consequences.

But to proceed, we had thirty-one "tumbles" of dry clover to get in after supper that day,
from the south field. The Elder and the Old Squire did not go out with us.

"You will have to make two loads of it," the latter remarked as we set off. "Put it in the
'west barn.' You need not hurry. The Elder and I will grind the scythes to-night."

I climbed into the rack and rode out to the field, Asa driving and Addison coming on behind,
to rake after the cart. Jim and Halstead had gone on ahead, to rick up the hay.

"Two loads, wal, they won't be very large ones," Asa remarked.

"What's the use to go twice?" I said. "I can load that hay all on at once."

Asa looked round at me, as I afterwards remembered, in a somewhat peculiar manner, and I now
imagine that both he and Addison at once began plotting my abasement, and passed the "wink"
to the others.

"You couldn't do it," said Asa.

I studied the amount of hay on the ground carefully for a moment or two, reflected on the number
of "tumbles" I had previously loaded, and then foolishly offered to bet that, if they would
pitch it slowly, I could stow every straw of it on the rack at one load and ride the load into
the barn. I had forgotten that our orders were to put the hay in the west barn, and that the
great doors of that barn were not as large as those of the south barn, the top-piece over them
being but twelve feet high. I did not once think of that!

The others saw the trap which I was setting for myself, but kept quiet and laid wagers against
me. The more they wagered, the more eager I became to try it, if they would not hurry me.

Asa began slowly pitching on the hay to me. I laid the load broad and long, and without any
very great difficulty stowed the thirty-one "tumbles." It was a large load but a shapely one.
I was not a little elated, and chaffed the Doanes considerably. They kept ominously quiet.

We started for the barn, I riding in triumph on the load, and I did not see the danger before
me till we were close to the great doors. Asa did not stop.

"Haw, Buck! Huh, Line, up there!" he shouted, and drove fast. The top-piece over the doors
struck the load fully three feet down from the top, scraping off about half a ton of hay and
myself along with it. I landed on the ground behind the cart outside of the doors, with all
that hay over me! The rest of the load went in, amidst shouts of laughter from the others.

I lay still under the hay, to hear what they would say. Then they all came around and began
to call to me. I kept quiet. Finding that I did not move nor answer, they grew alarmed. The
Old Squire and Elder were seen coming. "Boys," says Asa, "I dunno but it's broke his neck!"
With that he and Jim seized their forks and began to dig for me so vigorously that I was glad
to shout, to keep from being impaled on the fork-tines.

I crept out and rose to my feet a good deal rumpled, bareheaded and shamefaced.

The Doanes, Addison and Halse had been so frightened that they did not now laugh much. The
Elder looked at me with a curious expression; and the Old Squire, who had begun to say something
pretty sharp to Asa and James (who certainly deserved a reprimand), regarded me at first with
some anxiety, which, however, rapidly gave place to a grim smile. "Well, well, my son," said
he, "you must live and learn."

One afternoon later in the month, while we were getting the hay in the Aunt Hannah meadow,
a somewhat exciting incident occurred. Asa was pitching on a load of the meadow hay and I loading,
for I still kept my liking for that part of the work and was allowed to do it, although it
was in reality too hard for me. The Old Squire was raking after the cart, and the others were
raking hay into windrows a little way off. As we were putting on the last "tumble," or the
last but one, a peculiar kind of large fly, or bee, of which cattle are strangely afraid, came
buzzing about old Line, the off ox. The instant the ox heard that bee, he snorted, uttered
a bellow and started to run. The very sound of the bee's hum seemed to render the oxen quite
frantic. Almost at the outset they ran the offwheel over a rick of logs, nearly throwing me
headlong from the load. I thrust my fork down deep and held to that, and away went the load
down the meadow, both oxen going at full speed, with Asa vainly endeavoring to outrun them,
and Gramp shouting, "Whoa-hish!" at the top of his voice. We went on over stumps and through
water-holes, while the rest ran across lots, to head off the runaways. At one time I was tumbling
in the hay, then jounced high above it; and such a whooping and shouting as rose on all sides
had never before disturbed that peaceful meadow, at least within historic times.

Coming to a place where the brook made a broad bend partly across the meadow, the oxen rushed
blindly off the turfy bank, and landed, load and all, in two or three feet of water and mud.
When the load struck in the brook, I went off, heels over head, and fell on the nigh ox's back.
The oxen were mired, and so was the load. We were obliged to get the horses to haul the cattle
out, and both the oxen and horses were required to haul out the cart. Altogether, it was a
very muddy episode; and though rather startling while it lasted, we yet laughed a great deal
over it afterwards.

CHAPTER XVIII

APPLE-HOARDS

We heard a great deal concerning "Reconstruction" of the Union that summer. The Old Squire
was painfully concerned about it; he feared that Congress had made mistakes which would nullify
the results gained by the Civil War. The low character of the men, sent to the South to administer
the government, revolted him. He used to bring his newspaper to the table nearly every meal
and would sometimes fling it down indignantly, crying, "Wrong! wrong! all wrong!" Then he and
Addison would discuss current politics, while the rest of us listened, Theodora gravely, Halstead
scoffing, and I often very absently, for as a boy I had other more trivial interests chiefly
in mind. I recall that the old gentleman used frequently to exclaim, "You boys must begin to
read the Constitution. Next after the Bible, the Constitution ought to be read in every family
in our land."

I have to confess that at this particular time I was much less interested in the Constitution
than in the luscious fall apples out in the orchard, and the rivalry to secure them.

"Have you got a hoard?" was the question which, at about this time, began to be whispered among us.

At first the query was a novelty to me; my thoughts went back to a story which I had once read
concerning a horde of robbers on the steppes of Central Asia. In this case, however, the thing
referred to was a hoard of early apples. I had gone to the Edwardses on some domestic errand;
it was directly after breakfast, and Thomas, who was putting a new tooth in the "loafer rake,"
had set a fine, mellow "wine-sap," from which he had taken a bite, on the shed sill beside
him. "Got a pile of those fellows in my hoard," he remarked, with a boastful wink. "Have you
got a hoard down at your house?"

"Tom is always bragging about his hoard," said Catherine, who had come to the kitchen door,
to hear any news which I might have to impart. "He thinks nobody can have a hoard but himself."

"She's got one," Tom whispered to me, as Catherine turned away. "She's awful sly about it,
for fear I'll find it, and I think I know where it is. I'll bet she has gone to it now," he
added, taking another bite; and jumping up, he peeped into the kitchen. "She has" he whispered
to me. "Come on, still; don't say a word and we will catch her."

I remember feeling a certain faint sense of repugnance to engaging in a hunt for Catherine's
apple preserve; but I followed Tom around the wood-shed, past a corn-crib, and then around
to the north side of the barn.

"Now sneak along beside the stone wall here," said Tom. "Keep down. Don't get in sight."

We crawled along in cover of the stone wall and came down opposite the garden and orchard.
Tom then peeped stealthily over.

"There she is!" he whispered, "right out there by the Isabella grape trellis; keep still now,
she's going back to the house. We'll find her hoard."

We searched about the grape trellis and over the entire garden for ten minutes or more, but
found no secret preserve of apples.

As we returned to the wood-shed, Kate came out, smiling disdainfully.

"Found it?" she asked us,--a question which I felt to be an embarrassing one. With an air of
triumph, she then displayed a fine yellow Sweet Harvey. "Oh, don't you think you are cunning?"
muttered Tom. "But I'll find your hoard all the same."

"Let me know when you do," replied Kate, with a provoking laugh.

"Oh, you'll know when I find it," said Tom. "I'll take what there is in it. That was all a
blind--her going out to the grape-vine," he remarked to me, as Kate turned away about her work.
"She went down there on purpose to fool us, and get us to hunt there for nothing."

I went home quite fully informed in regard to the ethics of apple-hoards. The code was simple;
it consisted in keeping one's own hoard undiscovered, and in finding and robbing those of others.

"Have you got an apple-hoard?" I asked Addison, as soon as I reached home.

For all reply, he winked his left eye to me.

"Doad's got one, too," he said, after I had had time to comprehend his stealth.

"You didn't tell me," I remarked.

Addison laughed. "That would be great strategy!" he observed, derisively, "to tell of it! But
I only made mine day before yesterday. I thought the early apples were beginning to get good
enough to have a hoard. I want to get a big stock on hand for September town-meeting," he added.
"I mean to carry a bushel or two, and peddle them out for a cent apiece. The Old Squire put
me up to that last year, and I made two dollars and ninety cents. That's better than nothing."

"Are you really contented here? Are you homesick, ever?" I asked him.

"Well," replied Ad, judicially, after weighing my question a little, "it isn't, of course,
as it would have been with me if it had not been for the War, and father had lived. I should
be at school now and getting ahead fast. But it is of no use to think of that; father and mother
are both in their graves, and here I am, same as you and Doad are. We have got to make our
way along somehow and get what education we can. It is of no use to be discontented. We are
lucky to have so good a place to go to. I like here pretty well, for I like to be in the country
better, on the whole, than in the city. Things are sort of good and solid here. The only drawback
is that there isn't much chance to go to school; but after this year, I hope to go to the Academy,
down at the village, ten or twelve weeks every season."

"Then you mean to try to get an education?" I asked, for it looked to me to be a vast undertaking.

"I do," replied Addison, hopefully. "Father meant for me to go to college, and I mean to go,
even if I get to be twenty before I am fitted to enter. I will not grow up an ignoramus. A
man without education is a nobody nowadays. But with a good education, a man can do almost
anything."

"Halse doesn't talk that way," said I.

"I presume to say he doesn't," replied Addison. "He and I do not think alike."

"But Theodora says that she means to go to school and study a great deal, so as to do something
which she has in mind, one of these days," I went on to say. "Do you know what it is?"

"Cannot say that I do," Addison replied, rather indifferently, as I thought.

"Oh, I suppose it is a good thing for girls to study and get educated," Addison continued.
"But I do not think it amounts to so much for them as it does for boys."

This, indeed, was an opinion far more common in 1866 than at the present time.

"Perhaps it is to be a teacher?" I conjectured.

"Maybe," said Addison.

But I was thinking of apple-hoards. There was a delightful proprietary sense in the idea of
owning one. It stimulated some latent propensity to secretiveness, as also the inclination
to play the freebooter in a small way.

This was the first time that I had ever had access to an orchard of ripening fruit, and those
"early trees" are well fixed in my youthful recollections. Several of them stood immediately
below the garden, along the upper side of the orchard. First there was the "August Pippin"
tree, a great crotched tree, with a trunk as large round as a barrel. Somehow such trees do
not grow nowadays.

The August Pippins began to ripen early in August. These apples were as large as a teacup,
bright canary yellow in color, mellow, a trifle tart, and wonderfully fragrant. When the wind
was right, I could smell those pippins over in the corn-field, fifty rods distant from the
orchard. I even used to think that I could tell by the smell when an apple had dropped off
from the tree!

Then there were the "August Sweets," which grew on four grafts, set into an old "drying apple"
tree. They were pale yellow apples, larger even than the August Pippins, sweet, juicy and mellow.
The old people called them "Pear Sweets."

Next were the "Sour Harvey," the "Sweet Harvey," and the "Mealy Sweet" trees. The "Mealy Sweet"
was not of much account; it was too dry, but the Harveys were excellent. Some of the Sweet
Harveys were almost as sweet as honey; at least, I thought so then.

Then there were the "Noyes Apple" and the "Hobbs Apple." The Noyes was a deep-red, pleasant-sour
apple, which ripened in the latter part of August; the Hobbs was striped red and green, flattened
in shape, but of a fine, spicy flavor.

The "sops-in-wines," as, I believe, the fruit men term them, but which we called "wine-saps,"
were a pleasant-flavored apple, scarcely sweet, yet hardly sour. A little later came the "Porters"
and "Sweet Greenings," also the "Nodheads" and the "Minute Apples," the "Georgianas" and the
"Gravensteins," and so on until the winter apples, the principal product of the orchard, were
reached.

We began eating those early apples by the first of August, in spite of all the terrible stories
of colic which Gram told, in order to dissuade us from making ourselves ill. As the Pippins
and August Sweets began to get mellow and palatable, we rivalled each other in the haste with
which we tumbled out of doors early in the morning, so as to capture, each for himself or herself,
the apples which had dropped from the trees overnight. Every one of us soon had a private hoard
in which to secrete those apples which we did not eat at the time. There were numerous contests
in rapid dressing and in reckless racing down-stairs and out into the orchard.

Little Wealthy, on account of her youth, was, to some degree, exempted from this ruthless looting.
We all knew where her hoard was, but spared it for a long time. She believed that she had placed
it in a wonderfully secret place, and because none of us seemed to discover it, she boasted
so much that Ellen and I plundered it one morning, before she was awake, to give her a wholesome
lesson in humility.

A little later, just before the breakfast hour, Wealthy stole out to her preserve--to find
it empty. I never saw a child more mortified. She felt so badly that she could scarcely eat
breakfast, and her lip kept quivering. The others laughed at her, and soon she left the table,
and no doubt shed tears in secret over her loss.

After breakfast Ellen and I sought her out, and offered to give back the apples that we had
taken. The child was too proud, however, to obtain them in such a way, and refused to touch
one of them.

No such clemency as had been shown to Wealthy was practised by any one toward the others; no
quarter was given or taken in the matter of robbing hoards. For a month this looting went on,
and was a great contest of wits.

Theodora's was the only hoard that escaped detection during the entire summer and autumn. She
had her apples hidden in an empty bee-hive, which stood out in the garden under the "bee-shed"
about midway in the row of thirteen hives. The most of us were a little afraid of the bees,
but Theodora was one of those persons whom bees seem never to sting. She was accustomed to
care for them, and thus to be about the hives a great deal. Not one of us happened to think
of that empty bee-hive. The shed and some lilac shrubs concealed the place from the house;
and Doad went unsuspected to and from the hive, which she kept filled with apples. We spent
hours in searching for her hoard, but did not learn where she had concealed it until she told
us herself, two years afterwards.

Ellen had the worst fortune of us all. We found her hoard regularly every few days. At first
she hid it in the wagon-house, then up garret, and afterward in the wood-shed; but no sooner
would she accumulate a little stock of apples than some one of us, who had spied on her goings
and comings, would rob her. Even Wealthy found Nell's hoard once, and robbed it of nearly a
half-bushel of apples. Nell always bore her losses good-denature, and obtained satisfaction
occasionally by plundering Halse and me.

I remember that my first hoard was placed in the very high, thick "double" wall of the orchard.
I loosened and removed a stone from the orchard side of the wall, and then took out the small
inside stones from behind it until I had made a cavity sufficient to hold nearly a bushel.
Into this cavity I put my apples, and then fitted the outer stone back into its place, thus
making the wall look as if it had not been disturbed. This device protected my apples for nearly
a fortnight; but at length Ellen, who was on my track, observed me disappear suspiciously behind
the wall one day, and an hour or two later took occasion to reconnoiter the place where I had
disappeared.

She passed the hidden cavity several times, and would not have discovered it, if she had not
happened to smell the mellow August Pippins of my hoard. Guided by the fragrance which they
emitted, she examined the wall more closely, and finally found the loose stone. When I went
to my preserve, after we had milked the cows that evening, I found only the empty hole in the wall.

I next essayed to conceal my hoard in the ground. In the side of a knoll, screened from the
house by the orchard wall and a thick nursery of little apple trees, I secretly dug a hole
which I lined with new cedar shingles. For a lid to the orifice leading into it, I fitted a
sod. A little wild gooseberry bush overhung the spot, and I fancied that I had my apples safely
hidden.

But never was self-confidence worse misplaced! It was a cloudy, wet afternoon in which I had
thus employed myself. Halse had gone fishing; but Addison chanced to be up garret, reading
over a pile of old magazines, as was his habit on wet days. From the attic window he espied
the top of my straw hat bobbing up and down beyond the wall, and as he read, he marked my operations.

With cool, calculating shrewdness he remained quiet for three or four days, till I had my new
hoard well stocked with "Sweet Harveys," then made a descent upon it and cleared it out. Next
morning, when, with great stealth and caution, I had stolen to the place, I found my miniature
cavern empty except for a bit of paper, on which, with a lead-pencil, had been hastily inscribed
the following tantalizing bit of doggerel:

    "He hid his hoard in the ground
    And thought it couldn't be found;
    But forgot, as indeed he should not,
    That the attic window overlooked the spot."

For about three minutes I felt very angry, then I managed to summon a grin, along with a resolve
to get even with Addison--for I recognized his handwriting--by plundering his hoard, if by
any amount of searching it were possible to find it. Addison was supposed to have the best
and biggest hoard of all, and thus far none of us had got even an inkling as to where it was
hidden.

I watched him as a cat might watch a mouse for two days, and made pretty sure that he did not
go to his hoard in the daytime. Then I bethought myself that he always had a pocketful of apples
every morning, and concluded that he must visit his preserve sometime "between days," most
likely directly after he appeared to retire to his room at night.

So on the following night I lay awake and listened. After about half an hour of silence, I
heard the door of his room open softly. With equal softness I stole out, and followed Addison
through the open chamber of the ell, down a flight of stairs into the wagon-house, and then
down another flight into the carriage-house cellar.

He had a lamp in his hand. When he entered the cellar the door closed after him, so that I
did not dare go farther. I went back into the chamber, concealing myself, and waited to observe
his return. He soon made his appearance, eating an apple; there was a smile on his face, and
his pockets were protuberant.

Next day I proceeded to search the wagon-house cellar, but for some time my search was in vain.

There was in the cellar a large box-stove, into which I had often looked, but had seen only
a mass of old brown paper and corn-husks. On this day I went to the stove and pulled out the
rubbish, when lo! in the farther end I saw three salt boxes, all full of Pippins and August
Sweetings.

I was not long in emptying those boxes, but I wanted to leave in the place of the apples a
particularly exasperating bit of rhyme. I studied and rhymed all that forenoon, and at last,
with much mental travail, I got out the following skit, which I left in the topmost box:

    "He was a cunning cove
    Who hid his hoard in the stove;
    And he was so awful bright
    That he went to it only by night.
    But there was still another fellow
    Whose head was not always on his pillow."

I knew by the sickly grin on Ad's face when we went out to milk the cows next morning that
my first effort at poetry had nauseated him; he could not hold his head up all day, to look
me in the face, without the same, sheepish, sick look.

Where to put my next hoard was a question over which I pondered long. I tried the hay-mow and
several old sleighs set away for the summer, but Addison was now on my trail and speedily relieved
me of my savings.

There were many obstacles to the successful concealment of apples. If I were to choose an unfrequented
spot, the others, who were always on the lookout, would be sure to spy out my goings to and
fro. It was necessary, I found, that the hoard should be placed where I could visit it as I
went about my ordinary business, without exciting suspicion.

