The girl answered the knock, and on recognizing who it was caught her breath sharply. She had
not seen Mrs. Googe during the past month of misery and shame and excitement, and previous
to that she had avoided Champney Googe's mother on account of the humiliation her love for
the son had suffered at that son's hands--a humiliation which struck at the roots of all that
was truest and purest in that womanhood, which was drying up the clear-welling spring of her
buoyant temperament, her young enjoyment in life and living and all that life offers of best
to youth--offers once only.

She started back at the sight of those dark eyes glowing with an unnatural fire, at the haggard
face, its pallor accentuated by the white burnous. One thought had time to flash into consciousness
before the woman standing on the threshold could speak: here was suffering to which her own
was as a candle light to furnace flame.

"I've come to see Mrs. Champney, Aileen; is she in the library?"

"Yes,"--the girl's lips trembled,--"shall I tell her you are here?"

"No." She threw aside her cloak as if in great haste; Aileen took it and laid it on a chair.
Mrs. Googe went swiftly to the library door and rapped. Aileen heard the "Come in," and the
exclamation that followed: "So you've come at last, have you!"

She knew that tone of voice and what it portended. She put her fingers in her ears to shut
out further sound of it, and ran down the hall to the back passageway, closed the door behind
her and stood there trembling from nervousness.--Had Mrs. Googe obtained some inkling that
she had a message to deliver from that son?--a message she neither could nor would deliver?
Did Champney Googe's mother know that she had seen that son in the quarry woods? Mrs. Googe's
friends had told her the truth of the affair at the sheepfold, when it was found that her unanswered
suspicions were liable to unsettle her reason.--Could she know of that message? Could any one?

The mere presence in the house of this suffering woman set Aileen's every nerve tingling with
sickening despair. She determined to wait there in the dimly lighted back hall until Octavius
should make his appearance, be it soon or late; he always came through here on his way to the ell.

Aurora Googe looked neither to right nor left on entering the room. She went straight to the
library table, on the opposite side of which Mrs. Champney was still sitting where Octavius
had left her nearly two hours before. She stemmed both hands on it as if finding the support
necessary. Fixing her eyes, already beginning to glaze with the increasing fever, upon her
sister-in-law, she spoke, but with apparent effort:

"Yes, I've come, at last, Almeda--I've come to ask help for my boy--"

Mrs. Champney interrupted her; she was trembling visibly, even Aurora Googe saw that.

"I suppose this is Octavius Buzzby's doings. When I gave him that message it was final--final,
do you hear?"

She raised her voice almost an octave in the intense excitement she was evidently trying to
combat. The sound penetrated to Aileen, shut in the back hall, and again she thrust her fingers
into her ears. At that moment Octavius entered from the outer door.

"What are you doing here, Aileen?" For the first time in his life he spoke roughly to her.

She turned upon him her white scared face. "What is she doing?" she managed to say through
chattering teeth.

Octavius repented him, that under the strain of the situation he had spoken to her as he had.
"Go to bed, Aileen," he said firmly, but gently; "this ain't no place for you now."

She needed but that word; she was half way up the stairs before he had finished. He heard her
shut herself into the room. He hung up his coat, noiselessly opened the door into the main
hall, closed it softly behind him and took his stand half way to the library door. He saw nothing,
but he heard all.

For a moment there was silence in the room; then Aurora spoke in a dull strained voice:

"I don't know what you mean--I haven't had any message, and--and"--she swallowed hard--"nothing
is final--nothing--not yet--that's why I've come. You must help me, Almeda--help me to save
Champney; there is no one else in our family I can call upon or who can do it--and there is
a chance--"

"What chance?"

"The chance to save him from--from imprisonment--from a living death--"

"Has he been taken?"

"Taken!"--she swayed back from the table, clutching convulsively the edge to preserve her balance--"don't--don't,
Almeda; it will kill me. I am afraid for him--afraid--don't you understand?--Help me--let me
have the money, the amount that will save my son--free him--"

She swayed back towards the table and leaned heavily upon it, as fearing to lose her hold lest
she should sink to her knees. Mrs. Champney was recovering in a measure from the first excitement
consequent upon the shock of seeing the woman she hated standing so suddenly in her presence.
She spoke with cutting sarcasm:

"What amount, may I inquire, do you deem necessary for the present to insure prospective freedom
for your son?"

"You know well enough, Almeda; I must have eighty thousand at least."

Mrs. Champney laughed aloud--the same mocking laugh of a miserable old age that had raised
Octavius Buzzby's anger to a white heat of rage. Hearing it again, the man of Maine, without
fully realizing what he was doing, turned back his cuffs. He could scarce restrain himself
sufficiently to keep his promise to Aurora.

"Eighty thousand?--hm--m; between you and Octavius Buzzby there would be precious little left
either at Champ-au-Haut or of it." She turned in her chair in order to look squarely up into
the face of the woman on the opposite side of the table. "And you expect me to impoverish myself
for the sake of Champney Googe?"

"It wouldn't impoverish you--you have your father's property and more too; he is of your own
blood--why not?"

"Why not?" she repeated and laughed out again in her scorn; "why should I, answer me that?"

"He is your brother, Warren Googe's son--don't make me say any more, Almeda Champney; you know
that nothing but this, nothing on earth--could have brought me here to ask anything of you!"

There was a ring of the old-time haughty independence in her voice; Octavius rejoiced to hear
it. "She's getting a grip on herself," he said to himself; "I hope she'll give her one 'fore
she gets through with her."

"Why didn't my brother save his money for him then--if he's his son?" she demanded sharply,
but breathing short as she spoke the last words in a tone that conveyed the venom of intense
hatred.

"Almeda, don't; you know well enough 'why'; don't keep me in such suspense--I can't bear it;
only tell me if you will help."

She seemed to gather herself together; she swept round the table; came close to the woman in
the armchair; bent to her; the dark burning eyes fixed the faded blue ones. "Tell me quick,
I say,--I can bear no more."

"Aurora Googe, I sent word to you by Octavius Buzzby that I would not help your state's-prison
bird--fledged from your nest, not mine,--"

She did not finish, for the woman she was torturing suddenly laid a hot hand hard and close,
for the space of a few seconds, over those malevolent lips. Mrs. Champney drew back, turned
in her chair and reached for the bell.

Aurora removed her hand.

"Stop there, you've said enough, Almeda Champney!" she commanded her. She pointed to the portrait
over the fireplace. "By the love he bore my son--by the love we two women bore him--help--"

Mrs. Champney rose suddenly by great effort from her chair. The two women stood facing each other.

"Go--go!" she cried out shrilly, hoarsely; her face was distorted with passion, her hands were
clenched and trembling violently, "leave my sight--leave my house--you--you ask me, by the
love we bore Louis Champney, to save from his just deserts Louis Champney's bastard!"

Her voice rose to a shriek; she shook her fist in Aurora's face, then sank into her chair and,
seizing the bell, rang it furiously.

Octavius darted forward, but stopped short when he heard Aurora's voice--low, dull, as if a
sickening horror had quenched forever its life:

"You have thought that all these years?--O God!--Louis--Louis, what more--"

She fell before Octavius could reach her. Aileen and Ann, hearing the bell, came running through
the hall into the room.

"Help me up stairs, Aileen,"--the old woman was in command as usual,--"give me my cane, Ann;
don't stand there staring like two fools."

Aileen made a sign to Octavius to call Hannah; the two women helped the mistress of Champ-au-Haut
up to her room.

Mrs. Googe seemed not to have lost consciousness, for as Hannah bent over her she noticed that
her eyelids quivered.

"She's all wore out, poor dear, that's what's the matter," said Hannah, raising her to a sitting
position; she passed her hand tenderly over the dark hair.

Aileen came running down stairs bringing salts and cologne. Hannah bathed her forehead and
chafed her wrists.

In a few minutes the white lips quivered, the eyes opened; she made an effort to rise. Octavius
helped her to her feet; but for Aileen's arm around her she would have fallen again.

"Take me home, Tave." She spoke in a weak voice.

"I will, Aurora," he answered promptly, soothingly, although his hands trembled as he led her
to a sofa; "I'll just hitch up the pair in the carryall and Hannah'll ride up with us, won't
you, Hannah?"

"To be sure, to be sure. Don't you grieve yourself to death, Mis' Googe," she said tenderly.

"Don't wait to harness into the carryall, Tave--take me now--in the trap--take me away from
here. I don't need you, Hannah. I didn't know I was so weak--the air will make me feel better;
give me my cloak, Aileen."

The girl wrapped her in it, adjusted the burnous, that had fallen from her head, and went with
her to the door. Aurora turned and looked at her. The girl's heart was nigh to bursting. Impulsively
she threw her arms around the woman's neck and whispered: "If you need me, do send for me--I'll
come."

But Aurora Googe went forth from Champ-au-Haut without a word either to the girl, to Hannah,
or to Octavius Buzzby.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the first two miles they drove in silence. The night was clear but cold, the ground frozen
hard; a northwest wind roared in the pines along the highroad and bent the bare treetops on
the mountain side. From time to time Octavius heard the woman beside him sigh heavily as from
physical exhaustion. When, at last, he felt that she was shivering, he spoke:

"Are you cold, Aurora? I've got something extra under the seat."

"No, I'm not cold; I feel burning up."

He turned to look at her face in the glare of an electric light they were passing. It was true;
the rigor was that of increasing fever; her cheeks were scarlet.

"I wish you'd have let me telephone for the doctor; I don't feel right not to leave you in
his hands to-night, and Ellen hasn't got any head on her."

"No--no; I don't need him; he couldn't do me any good--nobody can.--Tave, did you hear her,
what she said?" She leaned towards him to whisper her question as if she feared the dark might
have ears.

"Yes, I heard her--damn her! I can't help it, Aurora."

"And you don't believe it--you know it isn't true?"

Octavius drew rein for a moment; lifted his cap and passed the back of his hand across his
forehead to wipe off the sweat that stood in beads on it. He turned to the woman beside him;
her dark eyes were devouring his face in the effort, or so it seemed, to anticipate his answer.

"Aurora, I've known you" (how he longed to say "loved you," but those were not words for him
to speak to Aurora Googe after thirty years of silence) "ever since you was sixteen and old
Mr. Googe took you, an orphan girl, into his home; and I knew Louis Champney from the time
he was the same age till he died. What I've seen, I've seen; and what I know, I know. Louis
Champney loved you better'n he loved his life, and I know you loved him; but if the Almighty
himself should swear it's true what Almeda Googe said, I wouldn't believe him--I wouldn't!"

The terrible nervous strain from which the woman was suffering lessened under the influence
of his speech. She leaned nearer.

"It was not true," she whispered again; "I know you'll believe me."

Her voice sounded weaker than before, and Octavius grew alarmed lest she have another of what
Hannah termed a "sinking spell" then and there. He drew rein suddenly, and so tightly that
the mare bounded forward and pulled at a forced pace up the hill to The Gore.

"And she thought that all these years--and I never knew. That's why she hates my boy and won't
help--oh, how could she!"

She shivered again. Octavius urged the mare to greater exertion. If only he could get the stricken
woman home before she had another turn.

"How could she?" he repeated with scathing emphasis; "just as any she-devil can set brooding
on an evil thought for years till she's hatched out a devil's dozen of filthy lies." He drew
the reins a little too tightly in his righteous wrath, and the mare reared suddenly. "What
the dev--whoa, there Kitty, what you about?"

He calmed the resentful beast, and they neared the house in The Gore at a quick trot.

"You don't think she has ever spoken to any one before--not so, do you, Tave? not to Louis ever?--"

"No, I don't, Aurora. Louis Champney wouldn't have stood that--I know him well enough for that;
but she might have hinted at a something, and it's my belief she did. But don't you fret, Aurora;
she'll never speak again--I'd take my oath on that--and if I dared, I'd say I wish Almighty
God would strike her dumb for saying what she has."

They had reached the house. She lifted her face to the light burning in her bedroom.

"Oh, my boy--my boy--" she moaned beneath her breath. Octavius helped her out, and holding
the reins in one hand, with the other supported her to the steps; her knees gave beneath her.--"Oh,
where is he to-night--what shall I do!--Think for me, Tave, act for me, or I shall go mad--"

Octavius leaned to the carriage and threw the reins around the whipstock.

"Aurora," he grasped her firmly by the arm, "give me the key."

She handed it to him; he opened the door; led her in; called loudly for Ellen; and when the
frightened girl came hurrying down from her room, he bade her see to Mrs. Googe while he went
for the doctor.

XVII

"The trouble is she has borne up too long."

The doctor was talking to Father Honoré while untying the horse from the hitching-post at the
kitchen porch.

"She has stood it longer than I thought she could; but without the necessary sleep even her
strong constitution and splendid physique can't supply sufficient nerve force to withstand
such a strain--it's fearful. Something had to give somewhere. Practically she hasn't slept
for over three weeks, and, what's more, she won't sleep till--she knows one way or the other.
I can't give her opiates, for the strain has weakened her heart--I mean functionally." He stepped
into the carriage. "You haven't heard anything since yesterday morning, have you?"

"No; but I'm inclined to think that now he has put them off the track and got them over the
border, he will make for New York again. It's my belief he will try to get out of the country
by that door instead of by way of Canada."

"I never thought of that." He gathered up the reins, and, leaning forward from the hood, looked
earnestly into the priest's eyes. "Make her talk if you can--it's her only salvation. She hasn't
opened her lips to me, and till she speaks out--you understand--I can do nothing. The fever
is only the result of the nerve-strain."

"I wish it were in my power to help her. I may as well tell you now--but I'd like it to remain
between ourselves, of course I've told the Colonel--that I determined last night to go down
to New York and see if I can accomplish anything. I shall have two private detectives there
to work with me. You know the city agency has its men out there already?"

"No, I didn't. I thought all the force was centred here in this State and on the Canada line.
It strikes me that if she could know you were going--and for what--she might speak. You might
try that, and let me know the result."

"I will."

The doctor drove off. Father Honoré stood for a few minutes on the back porch; he was thinking
concentratedly:--How best could he approach the stricken mother and acquaint her with his decision
to search for her son?

He was roused by the sound of a gentle voice speaking in French:

"Good-morning, Father Honoré; how is Mrs. Googe? I have just heard of her illness."

It was Sister Ste. Croix from the sisterhood home in The Gore.

The crisp morning air tinged with a slight color her wrinkled and furrowed cheeks; her eyelids,
also, were horribly wrinkled, as could be plainly seen when they drooped heavily over the dark
blue eyes. Yet Sister Ste. Croix was still in middle life.

"There is every cause for great anxiety, I grieve to say. The doctor has just gone."

"Who is with her, do you know?"

"Mrs. Caukins, so Ellen says."

"Do you think she would object to having me nurse her for a while? She has been so lovely to
me ever since I came here, and in one way and another we have been much together. I have tried
again and again to see her during these dreadful weeks, but she has steadily refused to see
me or any of us--just shut herself out from her friends."

"I wish she would have you about her; it would do her good; and surely Mrs. Caukins can't leave
her household cares to stay with her long, nor can she be running back and forth to attend
to her. I am going to make the attempt to see her, and if I succeed I will tell her that you
are ready to come at any minute--and only waiting to come to her."

"Do; and won't you tell Ellen I will come down and see her this afternoon? Poor girl, she has
been so terrified with the events of these last weeks that I have feared she would not stay.
If I'm here, I feel sure she would remain."

"If Mrs. Googe will not heed your request, I do hope you will make it your mission work to
induce Ellen to stay."

"Indeed, I will; I thought she might stay the more willingly if I were with her."

"I'm sure of it," Father Honoré said heartily.

"Are you going in now?"

"Yes."

"Well, please tell Ellen that if Mrs. Googe wants me, she is to come up at once to tell me.
Good morning."

She walked rapidly down the road beside the house. Father Honoré turned to look after her.
How many, many lives there were like that!--unselfish, sacrificing, loving, helpful, yet unknown,
unthought of. He watched the slight figure, the shoulders bowed already a little, but the step
still firm and light, till it passed from sight. Then he entered the kitchen and encountered
Mrs. Caukins.

"I never was so glad to see any living soul as I am you, Father Honoré," was her greeting;
she looked up from the lemon she was squeezing; "I don't dare to leave her till she gets a
regular nurse. It's enough to break your heart to see her lying there staring straight before
her and not saying a word--not even to the doctor. I told the Colonel when he was here a little
while ago that I couldn't stand it much longer; it's getting on my nerves--if she'd only say
something, I don't care what!"

She paused in concocting the lemonade to wipe her eyes on a corner of her apron.

"Mrs. Caukins, I wish you would say to Mrs. Googe that I am here and would like to speak with
her before I leave town this afternoon. You might say I expect to be away for a few days and
it is necessary that I should see her now."

"You don't mean to say you're going to leave us right in the lurch, 'fore we know anything
about Champney!--Why, what will the Colonel do without you? You've been his right hand man.
He's all broken up; that one night's work nearly killed him, and he hasn't seemed himself since--"

Father Honoré interrupted this flow of ejaculatory torrent.

"I've spoken to the Colonel about my going, Mrs. Caukins. He agrees with me that no harm can
come of my leaving here for a few days just at this time."

"I'll tell her, Father Honoré; I'm going up this minute with the lemonade; but it's ten to
one she won't see you; she wouldn't see the rector last week--oh, dear me!" She groaned and
left the room.

She was back again in a few minutes, her eyes wide with excitement.

"She says you can come up, Father Honoré, and you'd better go up quick before she gets a chance
to change her mind."

He went without a word. When Mrs. Caukins heard him on the stair and caught the sound of his
rap on the door, she turned to Ellen and spoke emphatically, but with trembling lips:

"I don't believe the archangel Gabriel himself could look at you more comforting than Father
Honoré does; if he can't help her, the Lord himself can't, and I don't mean that for blasphemy
either. Poor soul--poor soul"--she wiped the tears that were rolling down her cheeks,--"here
I am the mother of eight children and never had to lose a night's sleep on account of their
not doing right, and here's Aurora with her one and can't sleep nor eat for the shame and trouble
he's brought on her and all of us--for I'm a Googe. Life seems sometimes to get topsy-turvy,
and I for one can't make head nor tail of it. The Colonel's always talking about Nature's 'levelling
up,' but I don't see any 'levelling'; seems to me as if she was turning everything up on edge
pretty generally.--Give me that rice I saw in the pantry, Ellen; I'm going to make her a little
broth; I've got a nice foreshoulder piece at home, and it will be just the thing."

Ellen, rejoicing in such talkative companionship, after the three weeks of dreadful silence
in the house, did her bidding, at the same time taking occasion to ask some questions on her
own part, among them one which set Mrs. Caukins speculating for a week: "Who do you suppose
killed Rag?"

Aurora was in bed, but propped to a sitting position by pillows. When Father Honoré entered
she started forward.

"Have you heard anything?" Her voice was weak from physical exhaustion.

"No, Mrs. Googe--"

She sank back on the pillows; he drew a chair to the bedside.

"--But I have decided to go down to New York and search for myself. I have a feeling he is
there, not in Maine or Canada; and I know that city from Washington Heights to the Battery."

"You think he'll be found?" She could scarcely articulate the words; some terror had her by
the throat; her eyes showed deadly fear.

"Yes, I think he will."

"But she won't do anything--I--I went to her--"

"Don't exert yourself too much, Mrs. Googe, but if you can tell me whom you mean, to whom you
have applied, it might help me to act understandingly."

"To his aunt--I went last night."

"Mrs. Champney?"

She closed her eyes and made a motion of assent.

"And she will do nothing?"

"No."

"I fail to understand this. Surely she might give of her abundance to save one who is of her
own blood. Would it do any good, do you think, for me to see her? I'll gladly go."

She shook her head. "You don't understand."

He waited in silence for some further word; for her to open her eyes at least. But none was
forthcoming; the eyes remained closed. After a while he said gently:

"Perhaps I might understand, if you felt willing to tell me, if the effort is not too great."

She opened her eyes and fixed them apathetically on the strong helpful face.

"I wonder if you could understand--I don't know--you're not a woman--"

"No, but I am human, Mrs. Googe; and human sympathy is a great enlightener."

"The weight here--and here!" She raised one hand to her head, the other she laid over her heart.
"If I could get rid of that for one hour--I should be strong again--to live--to endure."

Father Honoré was silent. He knew the long pent stream of grief and misery must flow in its
own channel when once it should burst its bounds.

"My son must never know--you will give me your word?"

"I give you my word, Mrs. Googe."

She leaned forward from her pillows, looked anxiously at the door, which was open into the
hall, then whispered:

"She said--my son was Louis Champney's--bastard;--you don't believe it, do you?"

For the space of a second Father Honoré shrank within himself. He could not tell at that moment
whether he had here to do with an overwrought brain, with a mind obsessed, or with an awful
fact. But he answered without hesitation and out of his inmost conviction:

"No, I do not believe it, Mrs. Googe."

"I thought you wouldn't--Octavius didn't." She sighed profoundly as if relieved from pain.
"That's why she hates me--why she will not help."

"In that case I will go to Mr. Van Ostend. I asked to see you that I might tell you this."

"Will you--oh, will you?" She sighed again--a sigh of great physical relief, for she placed
her hand again over her heart, pressing it hard.

"That helps here," she said, passing her other hand over her forehead; "perhaps I can tell
you now, before you go--perhaps it will help more."

Her voice grew stronger with every full breath she was now able to draw. Gradually a look of
comprehension replaced the apathetic stare. She looked squarely at the priest for the first
time since his entrance. Father Honoré could but wonder if the thought behind that look would
find adequate expression.

"You haven't said 'God' to me once since that--that night. Don't speak to me about Him now,
will you? He's too far away--it doesn't mean anything to me."

"Mrs. Googe, there comes a time in most lives when God seems so far away that we can find Him
only through the Human;--perhaps such a time has come in your life."

"I don't know; I never thought much about that. But--my god was human, oh, for so many years!--I
loved Louis Champney."

Again there was a long inhalation and exhalation. It seemed as if each admission, which she
forced herself to make, loosened more and more the tension of the long-racked nerves; as a
result the muscles of the throat relaxed, the articulation grew distinct, the voice stronger.

"--And he loved me--better than life itself. I was so young when it began--only sixteen. My
husband's father took me into his home then to bring up; I was an orphan. And Louis Champney
loved me then and always--but Almeda Googe, my husband's sister, loved him too--in her way.
Her own father could do nothing with her awful will--it crushed everybody that came in contact
with it--that opposed it; it crushed me--and in the end, Louis."

She took a little of the lemonade to moisten her lips and went on:

"She was twelve years older than he. She took him when he was in college; worked on him, lied
to him about me; told him I loved her brother; worked backwards, forwards, underhanded--any
way to influence him against me and get her hold upon him. He went to Europe; she followed;
wrote lying letters to her brother--said she was engaged to be married to Louis before her
return; told Louis I was going to marry her brother, Warren Googe--in the end she had her way,
and always has had it, and will have it. I married Warren Googe; she was forty when she married
Louis at twenty-eight."

She paused, straightened herself. Something like animation came into her face.

"It does me good to speak--at last. I've never spoken in all these years--and I can tell you.
My child was born seven months after my husband's death. Louis Champney came to see me then--up
here, in this room; it was the first time we had dared to see each other alone--but the baby
lay beside me; that kept us. He said but little; but he took up the child and looked at him;
then he turned to me. 'This should have been our son, Aurora,' he said, and I--oh, what will
you think of me!" She dropped her head into her hands.

"I knew in my heart that during all those months I was carrying Warren Googe's child, I had
only one thought: 'Oh, if it were only Louis' and mine!' And because I was a widow, I felt
free to dwell upon that one thought night and day. Louis' face was always before me. I came
in thought to look upon him as the true father of my boy--not that other for whom I had had
no love. And I took great comfort in that thought--and--and--my boy is the living image of
Louis Champney."

She withdrew her hands, clasping them nervously and rubbing them in each other.

"Oh, I sinned, I sinned in thought, and I've been punished, but there was never anything more--and
last night I had to hear that from her!"

For a moment the look of deadly fear returned to the eyes, but only for a moment; her hands
continued to work nervously.

"Never anything more; only that day when he took my boy in his arms and said what he did, we
both knew we could not see much of each other for the rest of our lives--that's why I've kept
so much to myself. He kissed the baby then, laid him in my arms and, stooping, kissed me once--only
once--I've lived on that--and said: 'I will do all I can for this boy.' And--and"--her lips
trembled for the first time--"that little baby, as it lay on my breast, saved us both. It was
renunciation--but it made me hard; it killed Louis.

"I saw Louis seldom and always in the presence of my boy. But Almeda Champney was not satisfied
with what she had done; she transferred her jealousy to my son. She was jealous of every word
Louis spoke to him; jealous of every hour he was with him. When Louis died, still young--my
son was left unprovided for. That was Almeda Champney's work--she wouldn't have it.

"Then I sold the first quarry for means to send Champney to college; and I sold the rest in
order to start him well in business, in the world. But I know that at the bottom of my ambition
for him, was the desire that he might succeed in spite of the fact that his aunt had kept from
him the property which Louis Champney intended to be his. My ambition has been overweening
for Champney's material success--I have urged him on, when I should have restrained. I have
aided him to the extent of my ability to attain his end. I longed to see him in a position
that, financially, would far out-shine hers. I felt it would compensate in part. I loved my
son--and I loved in him Louis Champney. I alone am to blame for what has come of it--I--his
mother."

Her lips trembled excessively. She waited to control them before she could continue.

"Last night, when I begged her to help me, she answered me with what I told you. I could bear
no more--"

She leaned back on the pillows, exhausted for a while with her great effort, but the light
of renewed life shone from every feature.

"I am better now," she said, turning to Father Honoré the dark hollow eyes so full of gratitude
that the priest looked away from her.

While this page in human history was being laid open before him, Father Honoré said nothing.
The confession it contained was so awful in its still depths of pure passion, so far-reaching
in its effects on a human soul, that he felt suddenly the utter insignificance of his own existence,
the futility of all words, the meagreness of all sympathetic expression. And he was honest
enough to withhold all attempt at such.

"I fear you are very tired," he said, and rose to go.

"No, no; I am better already. The telling has done me such good. I shall soon be up and about.
When do you go?"

"This afternoon; and you may expect telegrams from me at almost any time; so don't be alarmed
simply because I send them. I thought you would prefer to know from day to day."

"You are good--but I can say nothing." The tears welled at last and overflowed on her cheeks.

"Don't say that--I beg of you." He spoke almost sharply, as if hurt physically. "Nothing is
needed--and I hope you will let Sister Ste. Croix come in for a few days and care for you.
She wants to come."

"Tell her to come. I think I am willing to see any one now--something has given way here;"
she pressed her hand to her head; "it's a great relief."

"Good-bye." He held out his hand and she placed hers in it; the tears kept rolling down her cheeks.

"Tell my darling boy, when you see him, that it was my fault--and I love him so--oh, how I
love him--" Her voice broke in a sob.

Father Honoré left the room to cover his emotion. He spoke to Ellen from the hall, and went
out at the front door in order to avoid Mrs. Caukins. He had need to be alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

That afternoon at the station, Octavius Buzzby met him on the platform.

"Mr. Buzzby, is there any truth in the rumor I heard, as I came to the train, that Mrs. Champney
has had a stroke?"

The face of Champ-au-Haut's factotum worked strangely before he made answer.

"Yes, she's had a slight shock. The doctor told me this morning that he knew she'd had the
first one over three years ago; this is the second. I've come down for a nurse he telegraphed
for; I expect her on the next train up--and, Father Honoré--" he hesitated; his hands were
working nervously in each other.

"Yes, Mr. Buzzby?"

"I come down to see you, too, on purpose--"

"To see me?" Father Honoré looked his surprise; his thoughts leaped to a possible demand on
Mrs. Champney's part for his presence at Champ-au-Haut--she might have repented her words,
changed her mind; might be ready to help her nephew. In that case, he would wait for the midnight
train.

The man of Maine's face was working painfully again; he was struggling for control; his feelings
were deep, tender, loyal; he was capable of any sacrifice for a friend.

"Father Honoré--I don't want to butt in anywhere--into what ain't my business, but I do want
to know if you're going to New York?"

"Yes, I am."

"Are you going to try to see him?"

"I'm going to try to find him--for his mother's sake and his own."

Octavius Buzzby grasped his hand and wrung it. "God bless you!" He fumbled with his left hand
in his breast pocket and drew forth a package. "Here, you take this--it's honest money, all
mine--you use it for Champney--to help out, you know, in any way you see fit."

Father Honoré was so moved he could not speak at once.

"If Mr. Googe could know what a friend he has in you, Mr. Buzzby," he said at last, "I don't
think he could wholly despair, whatever might come,"--he pressed the package back into Octavius'
hand,--"keep it with you, it's safer; and I promise you if I need it I will call on you." Suddenly
his indignation got the better of him--"But this is outrageous!"--he spoke in a low voice but
vehemently,--"Mrs. Champney is abundantly able to do this for her nephew, whereas you--"

"You're right, sir, it's a damned outrage--I beg your pardon, Father Honoré, I hadn't ought
to said that, but I've seen so much, and I'm all broke up, I guess, with what I've been through
since yesterday. I went to her myself then and made bold to ask her to help with her riches
that's bringing her in eight per cent, and told her some plain truths--"

"You went--!" Father Honoré exclaimed; he had almost said "too," but caught himself in time.

"Yes, I went, and all I got was an insult for my pains. She's a she-dev--I beg your pardon,
sir; it would serve me right if the Almighty struck me dumb with a stroke like hers, only hers
don't affect her speech any, Aileen says--I guess her tongue's insured against shock for life,
but it hadn't ought to be, sir, not after the blasphemy it's uttered. But I ain't the one to
throw stones, not after what I've just said in your presence, sir, and I do beg your pardon,
I know what's due to the clo--"

The train, rounding the curve, whistled deafeningly.

Father Honoré grasped both Octavius' hands; held them close in a firm cordial grip; looked
straight into the small brown eyes that were filled with tears, the result of pure nervousness.

"We men understand each other, Mr. Buzzby; no apology is necessary--let me have your prayers
while I am away, I shall need them--good-bye--" He entered the car.

Octavius Buzzby lifted his hat and stood bareheaded on the platform till the train drew out.

PART FOURTH

Oblivion

I

"I have called to see Mr. Van Ostend, by appointment," said Father Honoré to the footman in
attendance at the door of the mansion on the Avenue.

He was shown into the library. Mr. Van Ostend rose from the armchair to greet him.

"I am glad to see you, Father Honoré." He shook hands cordially and drew up a chair opposite
to his own before the blazing hearth. "Be seated; I have given orders that we are not to be
interrupted. I cannot pretend ignorance as to the cause of your coming--a sad, bad matter for
us all. Have you any news?"

"Only that he is here in New York."

Mr. Van Ostend looked startled. "Here? Since when? My latest advice was this afternoon from
the Maine detectives."

"I heard yesterday from headquarters that he had been traced here, but he must be in hiding
somewhere; thus far they've found no trace of him. I felt sure, from the very first, he would
return; that is why I came down. He couldn't avoid detection any longer in the country, nor
could he hold out another week in the Maine wilderness--no man could stand it in this weather."

"How long have you been here, Father Honoré?"

"Three days. I promised Mrs. Googe to do what I could to find him; the mother suffers most."

"I know--I know; it's awful for her; but, for God's sake, what did he do it for!"

"Why do we all sin at times?"

"Yes, yes--I know; that's your point of view, but that does not answer me in this case. He
had every opportunity to work along legitimate lines towards the end he professed to wish to
attain--and he had the ability to attain it; I know this from my experience with him. What
could have possessed him to put himself in the place of a sneak thief--he, born a gentleman,
with Champney blood in his veins?"

Father Honoré did not answer his question which was more an indignant ejaculation.

"You spoke of my 'point of view,' Mr. Van Ostend. I think I know what that implies; you mean
from the point of view of the priesthood?"

The man on the opposite side of the fire-lighted hearth looked at him in surprise. "Yes, just
that; but I intended no reflection on your opinion; perhaps I ought to say frankly, that it
implied a doubt of your powers of judgment in a business matter like the one in question. Naturally,
it does not lie in your line."

Father Honoré smiled a little sadly. "Perhaps you may recall that old saying of the Jew, Nathan
the Wise: 'A man is a man before he is either Christian or Jew.' And we are men, Mr. Van Ostend;
men primarily before we are either financier or priest. Let us speak as man to man; put aside
all points of view entailed by difference of training, and meet on the common ground of our
manhood, I am sure the perspective and retrospective ought to be in the same line of vision
from that standpoint."

