Wednesday 21, he resumed his march early, and at the distance of five miles reached an Indian
lodge of brush, inhabited by seven families of Shoshonees. After smoking with them all he visited
the fish weir, which was about two hundred yards distant; the river was here divided by three
small islands, which occasioned the water to pass along four channels. Of these three were
narrow, and stopped by means of trees which were stretched across, and supported by willow
stakes, sufficiently near each other to prevent the passage of the fish. About the centre of
each was placed a basket formed of willows, eighteen or twenty feet in length, of a cylindrical
form, and terminating in a conic shape at its lower extremity; this was situated with its mouth
upwards, opposite to an aperture in the weir. The main channel of the water was then conducted
to this weir, and as the fish entered it they were so entangled with each other that they could
not move, and were taken out by untying the small end of the willow basket. The weir in the
main channel was formed in a manner somewhat different; there were in fact two distinct weirs
formed of poles and willow sticks quite across the river, approaching each other obliquely
with an aperture in each side near the angle. This is made by tying a number of poles together
at the top, in parcels of three, which were then set up in a triangular form at the base, two
of the poles being in the range desired for the weir, and the third down the stream. To these
poles two ranges of other poles are next lashed horizontally, with willow bark and wythes,
and willow sticks joined in with these crosswise, so as to form a kind of wicker-work from
the bottom of the river to the height of three or four feet above the surface of the water.
This is so thick as to prevent the fish from passing, and even in some parts with the help
of a little gravel and some stone enables them to give any direction which they wish to the
water. These two weirs being placed near to each other, one for the purpose of catching the
fish as they ascend, the other as they go down the river, is provided with two baskets made
in the form already described, and which are placed at the apertures of the weir. After examining
these curious objects, he returned to the lodges, and soon passed the river to the left, where
an Indian brought him a tomahawk which he said he had found in the grass, near the lodge where
captain Lewis had staid on his first visit to the village. This was a tomahawk which had been
missed at the time, and supposed to be stolen; it was however the only article which had been
lost in our intercourse with the nation, and as even that was returned the inference is highly
honourable to the integrity of the Shoshonees. On leaving the lodges captain Clarke crossed
to the left side of the river, and despatched five men to the forks of it, in search of the
man left behind yesterday, who procured a horse and passed by another road as they learnt,
to the forks. At the distance of fourteen miles they killed a very large salmon, two and a
half feet long, in a creek six miles below the forks: and after travelling about twenty miles
through the valley, following the course of the river, which runs nearly northwest, halted
in a small meadow on the right side, under a cliff of rocks. Here they were joined by the five
men who had gone in quest of Crusatte. They had been to the forks of the river, where the natives
resort in great numbers for the purpose of gigging fish, of which they made our men a present
of five fresh salmon. In addition to this food, one deer was killed to-day. The western branch
of this river is much larger than the eastern, and after we passed the junction we found the
river about one hundred yards in width, rapid and shoaly, but containing only a small quantity
of timber. As captain Lewis was the first white man who visited its waters, captain Clarke
gave it the name of Lewis's river. The low grounds through which he had passed to-day were
rich and wide, but at his camp this evening the hills begin to assume a formidable aspect.
The cliff under which he lay is of a reddish brown colour, the rocks which have fallen from
it are a dark brown flintstone. Near the place are gullies of white sandstone, and quantities
of a fine sand, of a snowy whiteness: the mountains on each side are high and rugged, with
some pine trees scattered over them.

Thursday 22. On resuming his route, he went along the steep side of a mountain about three
miles, and then reached the river near a small island, at the lower part of which he encamped;
he here attempted to gig some fish, but could only obtain one small salmon. The river is here
shoal and rapid, with many rocks scattered in various directions through its bed. On the sides
of the mountains are some scattered pines, and of those on the left the tops are covered with
them; there are however but few in the low grounds through which they passed, indeed they have
seen only a single tree fit to make a canoe, and even that was small. The country has an abundant
growth of berries, and we met several women and children gathering them who bestowed them upon
us with great liberality. Among the woods captain Clarke observed a species of woodpecker,
the beak and tail of which were white, the wings black, and every other part of the body of
a dark brown; its size was that of the robin, and it fed on the seeds of the pine.

Friday 23. Captain Clarke set off very early, but as his route lay along the steep side of
a mountain, over irregular and broken masses of rocks, which wounded the horses' feet, he was
obliged to proceed slowly. At the distance of four miles he reached the river, but the rocks
here became so steep, and projected so far into the river, that there was no mode of passing,
except through the water. This he did for some distance, though the river was very rapid, and
so deep that they were forced to swim their horses. After following the edge of the water for
about a mile under this steep cliff, he reached a small meadow, below which the whole current
of the river beat against the right shore on which he was, and which was formed of a solid
rock perfectly inaccessible to horses. Here too, the little track which he had been pursuing
terminated. He therefore resolved to leave the horses and the greater part of the men at this
place, and examine the river still further, in order to determine if there were any possibility
of descending it in canoes. Having killed nothing except a single goose to-day, and the whole
of our provision being consumed last evening, it was by no means advisable to remain any length
of time where they were. He now directed the men to fish and hunt at this place till his return,
and then with his guide and three men he proceeded, clambering over immense rocks, and along
the side of lofty precipices which bordered the river, when at about twelve miles distance
he reached a small meadow, the first he had seen on the river since he left his party. A little
below this meadow, a large creek twelve yards wide, and of some depth, discharges itself from
the north. Here were some recent signs of an Indian encampment, and the tracks of a number
of horses, who must have come along a plain Indian path, which he now saw following the course
of the creek. This stream his guide said led towards a large river running to the north, and
was frequented by another nation for the purpose of catching fish. He remained here two hours,
and having taken some small fish, made a dinner on them with the addition of a few berries.
From the place where he had left the party, to the mouth of this creek, it presents one continued
rapid, in which are five shoals, neither of which could be passed with loaded canoes; and the
baggage must therefore be transported for a considerable distance over the steep mountains,
where it would be impossible to employ horses for the relief of the men. Even the empty canoes
must be let down the rapids by means of cords, and not even in that way without great risk
both to the canoes as well as to the men. At one of these shoals, indeed the rocks rise so
perpendicularly from the water as to leave no hope of a passage or even a portage without great
labour in removing rocks, and in some instances cutting away the earth. To surmount these difficulties
would exhaust the strength of the party, and what is equally discouraging would waste our time
and consume our provisions, of neither of which have we much to spare. The season is now far
advanced, and the Indians tell us we shall shortly have snow: the salmon too have so far declined
that the natives themselves are hastening from the country, and not an animal of any kind larger
than a pheasant or a squirrel, and of even these a few only will then be seen in this part
of the mountains: after which we shall be obliged to rely on our own stock of provisions, which
will not support us more than ten days. These circumstances combine to render a passage by
water impracticable in our present situation. To descend the course of the river on horseback
is the other alternative, and scarcely a more inviting one. The river is so deep that there
are only a few places where it can be forded, and the rocks approach so near the water as to
render it impossible to make a route along the waters' edge. In crossing the mountains themselves
we should have to encounter, besides their steepness, one barren surface of broken masses of
rock, down which in certain seasons the torrents sweep vast quantities of stone into the river.
These rocks are of a whitish brown, and towards the base of a gray colour, and so hard, that
on striking them with steel, they yield a fire like flint. This sombre appearance is in some
places scarcely relieved by a single tree, though near the river and on the creeks there is
more timber, among which are some tall pine: several of these might be made into canoes, and
by lashing two of them together, one of tolerable size might be formed.

After dinner he continued his route, and at the distance of half a mile passed another creek
about five yards wide. Here his guide informed him that by ascending the creek for some distance
he would have a better road, and cut off a considerable bend of the river towards the south.
He therefore pursued a well-beaten Indian track up this creek for about six miles, when leaving
the creek to the right he passed over a ridge, and after walking a mile again met the river,
where it flows through a meadow of about eighty acres in extent. This they passed and then
ascended a high and steep point of a mountain, from which the guide now pointed out where the
river broke through the mountains about twenty miles distant. Near the base of the mountains
a small river falls in from the south: this view was terminated by one of the loftiest mountains
captain Clarke had ever seen, which was perfectly covered with snow. Towards this formidable
barrier the river went directly on, and there it was, as the guide observed, that the difficulties
and dangers of which he and Cameahwait had spoken commenced. After reaching the mountain, he
said, the river continues its course towards the north for many miles, between high perpendicular
rocks, which were scattered through its bed: it then penetrated the mountain through a narrow
gap, on each side of which arose perpendicularly a rock as high as the top of the mountain
before them; that the river then made a bend which concealed its future course from view, and
as it was alike impossible to descend the river or clamber over that vast mountain, eternally
covered with snow, neither he nor any of his nation had ever been lower than at a place where
they could see the gap made by the river on entering the mountain. To that place he said he
would conduct captain Clarke if he desired it by the next evening. But he was in need of no
further evidence to convince him of the utter impracticability of the route before him. He
had already witnessed the difficulties of part of the road, yet after all these dangers his
guide, whose intelligence and fidelity he could not doubt, now assured him that the difficulties
were only commencing, and what he saw before him too clearly convinced him of the Indian's
veracity. He therefore determined to abandon this route, and returned to the upper part of
the last creek we had passed, and reaching it an hour after dark encamped for the night: on
this creek he had seen in the morning an Indian road coming in from the north. Disappointed
in finding a route by water, captain Clarke now questioned his guide more particularly as to
the direction of this road which he seemed to understand perfectly. He drew a map on the sand,
and represented this road as well as that we passed yesterday on Berry creek as both leading
towards two forks of the same great river, where resided a nation called Tushepaws, who having
no salmon on their river, came by these roads to the fish weirs on Lewis's river. He had himself
been among these Tushepaws, and having once accompanied them on a fishing party to another
river he had there seen Indians who had come across the rocky mountains. After a great deal
of conversation, or rather signs, and a second and more particular map from his guide, captain
Clarke felt persuaded that his guide knew of a road from the Shoshonee village they had left,
to the great river to the north, without coming so low down as this on a route impracticable
for horses. He was desirous of hastening his return, and therefore set out early,

Saturday 24, and after descending the creek to the river, stopped to breakfast on berries in
the meadow above the second creek. He then went on, but unfortunately fell from a rock and
injured his leg very much; he however walked on as rapidly as he could, and at four in the
afternoon rejoined his men. During his absence they had killed one of the mountain cocks, a
few pheasants, and some small fish, on which with haws and serviceberries they had subsisted.
Captain Clarke immediately sent forward a man on horseback with a note to captain Lewis, apprising
him of the result of his inquiries, and late in the afternoon set out with the rest of the
party and encamped at the distance of two miles. The men were much disheartened at the bad
prospect of escaping from the mountains, and having nothing to eat but a few berries which
have made several of them sick, they all passed a disagreeable night, which was rendered more
uncomfortable by a heavy dew.

Sunday 25. The want of provisions urged captain Clarke to return as soon as possible; he therefore
set out early, and halted an hour in passing the Indian camp near the fish weirs. These people
treated them with great kindness, and though poor and dirty they willingly give what little
they possess; they gave the whole party boiled salmon and dried berries, which were not however
in sufficient quantities to appease their hunger. They soon resumed their old road, but as
the abstinence or strange diet had given one of the men a very severe illness, they were detained
very much on his account, and it was not till late in the day they reached the cliff under
which they had encamped on the twenty-first. They immediately began to fish and hunt, in order
to procure a meal. We caught several small fish, and by means of our guide, obtained two salmon
from a small party of women and children, who, with one man, were going below to gather berries.
This supplied us with about half a meal, but after dark we were regaled with a beaver which
one of the hunters brought in. The other game seen in the course of the day were one deer,
and a party of elk among the pines on the sides of the mountains.

Monday 26. The morning was fine, and three men were despatched ahead to hunt, while the rest
were detained until nine o'clock, in order to retake some horses which had strayed away during
the night. They then proceeded along the route by the forks of the river, till they reached
the lower Indian camp where they first were when we met them. The whole camp immediately flocked
around him with great appearance of cordiality, but all the spare food of the village did not
amount to more than two salmon, which they gave to captain Clarke, who distributed them among
his men. The hunters had not been able to kill any thing, nor had captain Clarke or the greater
part of the men any food during the twenty-four hours, till towards evening one of them shot
a salmon in the river, and a few small fish were caught, which furnished them with a scanty
meal. The only animals they had seen were a few pigeons, some very wild hares, a great number
of the large black grasshopper, and a quantify of ground lizards.

Tuesday 27.

Wednesday 28. There was a frost again this morning. The Indians gave the party two salmon out
of several which they caught in their traps, and having purchased two more, the party was enabled
to subsist on them during the day. A camp of about forty Indians from the west fork passed
us to-day, on their route to the eastward. Our prospect of provisions is getting worse every
day: the hunters who had ranged through the country in every direction where game might be
reasonably expected, have seen nothing. The fishery is scarcely more productive, for an Indian
who was out all day with his gig killed only one salmon. Besides the four fish procured from
the Indians, captain Clarke obtained some fishroe in exchange for three small fish-hooks, the
use of which he taught them, and which they very readily comprehended. All the men who are
not engaged in hunting, are occupied in making pack-saddles for the horses which captain Lewis
informed us he had bought.

August 20. Two hunters were despatched early in the morning, but they returned without killing
any thing, and the only game we procured was a beaver, who was caught last night in a trap
which he carried off two miles before he was found. The fur of this animal is as good as any
we have ever seen, nor does it in fact appear to be ever out of season on the upper branches
of the Missouri. This beaver, with several dozen of fine trout, gave us a plentiful subsistence
for the day. The party were occupied chiefly in making pack-saddles, in the manufacture of
which we supply the place of nails and boards, by substituting for the first thongs of raw
hide, which answer very well; and for boards we use the handles of our oars, and the plank
of some boxes, the contents of which we empty into sacks of raw hides made for the purpose.
The Indians who visit us behave with the greatest decorum, and the women are busily engaged
in making and mending the moccasins of the party. As we had still some superfluous baggage
which would be too heavy to carry across the mountains, it became necessary to make a cache
or deposit. For this purpose we selected a spot on the bank of the river, three quarters of
a mile below the camp, and three men were set to dig it, with a sentinel in the neighbourhood,
who was ordered if the natives were to straggle that way, to fire a signal for the workmen
to desist and separate. Towards evening the cache was completed without being perceived by
the Indians, and the packages prepared for deposit.

Wednesday, August 21. The weather was very cold; the water which stood in the vessels exposed
to the air being covered with ice a quarter of an inch thick: the ink freezes in the pen, and
the low grounds are perfectly whitened with frost: after this the day proved excessively warm.
The party were engaged in their usual occupations, and completed twenty saddles with the necessary
harness, all prepared to set off as soon as the Indians should arrive. Our two hunters who
were despatched early in the morning have not returned, so that we were obliged to encroach
on our pork and corn, which we consider as the last resource when our casual supplies of game
fail. After dark we carried our baggage to the cache, and deposited what we thought too cumbrous
to carry with us: a small assortment of medicines, and all the specimens of plants, seeds,
and minerals, collected since leaving the falls of the Missouri. Late at night Drewyer, one
of the hunters, returned with a fawn and a considerable quantity of Indian plunder, which he
had taken by way of reprisal. While hunting this morning in the Shoshonee cove, he came suddenly
upon an Indian camp, at which were an old man, a young one, three women, and a boy: they showed
no surprise at the sight of him and he therefore rode up to them, and after turning his horse
loose to graze sat down and began to converse with them by signs. They had just finished a
repast on some roots, and in about twenty minutes one of the women spoke to the rest of the
party, who immediately went out, collected their horses and began to saddle them. Having rested
himself, Drewyer thought that he would continue his hunt, and rising went to catch his horse
who was at a short distance, forgetting at the moment to take up his rifle. He had scarcely
gone more than fifty paces when the Indians mounted their horses, the young man snatched up
the rifle, and leaving all their baggage, whipt their horses, and set off at full speed towards
the passes of the mountains: Drewyer instantly jumped on his horse and pursued them. After
running about ten miles the horses of the women nearly gave out, and the women finding Drewyer
gain on them raised dreadful cries, which induced the young man to slacken his pace, and being
mounted on a very fleet horse rode round them at a short distance. Drewyer now came up with
the women, and by signs persuaded them that he did not mean to hurt them: they then stopped,
and as the young man came towards them Drewyer asked him for his rifle, but the only part of
the answer which he understood was Pahkee, the name by which they call their enemies, the Minnetarees
of fort de Prairie. While they were thus engaged in talking, Drewyer watched his opportunity,
and seeing the Indian off his guard, galloped up to him and seized his rifle: the Indian struggled
for some time, but finding Drewyer getting too strong for him, had the presence of mind to
open the pan and let the priming fall out; he then let go his hold, and giving his horse the
whip escaped at full speed, leaving the women to the mercy of the conqueror. Drewyer then returned
to where he had first seen them, where he found that their baggage had been left behind, and
brought it to camp with him.

Thursday, 22. This morning early two men were sent to complete the covering of the cache, which
could not be so perfectly done during the night as to elude the search of the Indians. On examining
the spoils which Drewyer had obtained, they were found to consist of several dressed and undressed
skins; two bags wove with the bark of the silk grass, each containing a bushel of dried serviceberries,
and about the same quantity of roots; an instrument made of bone for manufacturing the flints
into heads for arrows; and a number of flints themselves: these were much of the same colour
and nearly as transparent as common black glass, and when cut detached itself into flakes,
leaving a very sharp edge.

The roots were of three kinds, and folded separate from each in hides of buffaloe made into
parchment. The first is a fusiform root six inches long, and about the size of a man's finger
at the largest end, with radicles larger than is usual in roots of the fusiform sort: the rind
is white and thin, the body is also white, mealy, and easily reducible, by pounding, to a substance
resembling flour, like which it thickens by boiling, and is of an agreeable flavour: it is
eaten frequently in its raw state either green or dried. The second species was much mutilated,
but appeared to be fibrous; it is of a cylindrical form about the size of a small quill, hard
and brittle. A part of the rind which had not been detached in the preparation was hard and
black, but the rest of the root was perfectly white; this the Indiana informed us was always
boiled before eating; and on making the experiment we found that it became perfectly soft,
but had a bitter taste, which was nauseous to our taste, but which the Indians seemed to relish;
for on giving the roots to them they were very heartily swallowed.

The third species was a small nut about the size of a nutmeg, of an irregularly rounded form,
something like the smallest of the Jerusalem artichokes, which, on boiling, we found them to
resemble also in flavour, and is certainly the best root we have seen in use among the Indians.
On inquiring of the Indians from what plant these roots were procured, they informed us that
none of them grew near this place.

The men were chiefly employed in dressing the skins belonging to the party who accompanied
captain Clarke. About eleven o'clock Chaboneau and his wife returned with Cameahwait, accompanied
by about fifty men with their women and children.

Towards evening we formed a drag of bushes, and in about two hours caught five hundred and
twenty-eight very good fish most of them large trout. Among them we observed for the first
time ten or twelve trout of a white or silvery colour, except on the back and head where they
are of a bluish cast: in appearance and shape they resemble exactly the speckled trout, except
that they are not quite so large, though the scales are much larger, and the flavour equally
good. The greater part of the fish was distributed among the Indians.

Friday 28. Our visitors seem to depend wholly on us for food, and as the state of our provisions
obliges us to be careful of our remaining stock of corn and flour, this was an additional reason
for urging our departure; but Cameahwait requested us to wait till the arrival of another party
of his nation who were expected to-day. Knowing that it would be in vain to oppose his wish,
we consented, and two hunters were sent out with orders to go further up the southeast fork
than they had hitherto been. At the same time the chief was informed of the low state of our
provisions, and advised to send out his young men to hunt. This he recommended them to do,
and most of them set out: we then sunk our canoes by means of stones to the bottom of the river,
a situation which better than any other secured them against the effects of the high waters,
and the frequent fires of the plains; the Indians having promised not to disturb them during
our absence, a promise we believe the more readily, as they are almost too lazy to take the
trouble of raising them for fire-wood. We were desirous of purchasing some more horses, but
they declined selling any until we reached their camp in the mountains. Soon after starting
the Indian hunters discovered a mule buck, and twelve of their horsemen pursued it, for four
miles. We saw the chase, which was very entertaining, and at length they rode it down and killed
it. This mule buck was the largest deer of any kind we have seen, being nearly as large as
a doe elk. Besides this they brought in another deer and three goats; but instead of a general
distribution of the meat, and such as we have hitherto seen among all tribes of Indians, we
observed that some families had a large share, while others received none. On inquiring of
Cameahwait the reason of this custom, he said that meat among them was scarce; that each hunter
reserved what he killed for the use of himself and his own family, none of the rest having
any claim on what he chose to keep. Our hunters returned soon after with two mule deer and
three common deer, three of which we distributed among the families who had received none of
the game of their own hunters. About three o'clock the expected party consisting of fifty men,
women and children arrived. We now learnt that most of the Indians were on their way down the
valley towards the buffaloe country, and some anxiety to accompany them appeared to prevail
among those who had promised to assist us in crossing the mountains. We ourselves were not
without some apprehension that they might leave us, but as they continued to say that they
would return with us nothing was said upon the subject. We were, however, resolved to move
early in the morning; and therefore despatched two men to hunt in the cove and leave the game
on the route we should pass to-morrow.

Saturday 24. As the Indians who arrived yesterday had a number of spare horses, we thought
it probable they might be willing to dispose of them, and desired the chief to speak to them
for that purpose. They declined giving any positive answer, but requested to see the goods
which we proposed to exchange. We then produced some battle-axes which we had made at fort
Mandan, and a quantity of knives; with both of which they appeared very much pleased; and we
were soon able to purchase three horses by giving for each an axe, a knife, a hankerchief and
a little paint. To this we were obliged to add a second knife, a shirt, a handkerchief and
a pair of leggings; and such is the estimation in which those animals are held, that even at
this price, which was double that for a horse, the fellow who sold him took upon himself great
merit in having given away a mule to us. They now said that they had no more horses for sale,
and as we had now nine of our own, two hired horses, and a mule, we began loading them as heavily
as was prudent, and placing the rest on the shoulders of the Indian women, left our camp at
twelve o'clock. We were all on foot, except Sacajawea, for whom her husband had purchased a
horse with some articles which we gave him for that purpose; an Indian however had the politeness
to offer captain Lewis one of his horses to ride, which he accepted in order better to direct
the march of the party. We crossed the river below the forks, directing our course towards
the cove by the route already passed, and had just reached the lower part of the cove when
an Indian rode up to captain Lewis to inform him that one of his men was very sick, and unable
to come on. The party was immediately halted at a run which falls into the creek on the left,
and captain Lewis rode back two miles, and found Wiser severely afflicted with the colic: by
giving him some of the essence of peppermint and laudanum, he recovered sufficiently to ride
the horse of captain Lewis, who then rejoined the party on foot. When he arrived he found that
the Indians who had been impatiently expecting his return, at last unloaded their horses and
turned them loose, and had now made their camp for the night. It would have been fruitless
to remonstrate, and not prudent to excite any irritation, and therefore, although the sun was
still high, and we had made only six miles, we thought it best to remain with them: after we
had encamped there fell a slight shower of rain. One of the men caught several fine trout;
but Drewyer had been sent out to hunt without having killed any thing. We therefore gave a
little corn to those of the Indians who were actually engaged in carrying our baggage, and
who had absolutely nothing to eat. We also advised Cameahwait, as we could not supply all his
people with provisions, to recommend to all who were not assisting us, to go on before us to
their camp. This he did: but in the morning,

Sunday 25, a few only followed his advice, the rest accompanying us at some distance on each
side. We set out at sunrise and after going seventeen miles halted for dinner within two miles
of the narrow pass in the mountains. The Indians who were on the sides of our party had started
some antelopes, but were obliged after a pursuit of several hours to abandon the chase: our
hunters had in the meantime brought in three deer, the greater part of which was distributed
among the Indians. Whilst at dinner we learnt by means of Sacajawea, that the young men who
left us this morning, carried a request from the chief, that the village would break up its
encampment and meet this party to-morrow, when they would all go down the Missouri into the
buffaloe country.

Monday 26. The morning was excessively cold, and the ice in our vessels was nearly a quarter
of an inch in thickness: we set out at sunrise, and soon reached the fountain of the Missouri,
where we halted for a few minutes, and then crossing the dividing ridge reached the fine spring
where captain Lewis had slept on the 12th in his first excursion to the Shoshonee camp. The
grass on the hill sides is perfectly dry and parched by the sun, but near the spring was a
fine green grass: we therefore halted for dinner and turned our horses to graze. To each of
the Indians who were engaged in carrying our baggage was distributed a pint of corn, which
they parched, then pounded, and made a sort of soup.

This wonderful facility with which the Indian women bring forth their children, seems rather
some benevolent gift of nature, in exempting them from pains which their savage state would
render doubly grievous, than any result of habit. If as has been imagined, a pure dry air or
a cold and elevated country are obstacles to easy delivery, every difficulty incident to that
operation might be expected in this part of the continent; nor can another reason, the habit
of carrying heavy burthens during pregnancy, be at all applicable to the Shoshonee women, who
rarely carry any burdens, since their nation possesses an abundance of horses. We have indeed
been several times informed by those conversant with Indian manners, and who asserted their
knowledge of the fact, that Indian women pregnant by white men experience more difficulty in
child-birth than when the father is an Indian. If this account be true, it may contribute to
strengthen the belief, that the easy delivery of the Indian women is wholly constitutional.

The tops of the high irregular mountains to the westward are still entirely covered with snow;
and the coolness which the air acquires in passing them, is a very agreeable relief from the
heat, which has dried up the herbage on the sides of the hills. While we stopped, the women
were busily employed in collecting the root of a plant with which they feed their children,
who like their mothers are nearly half starved and in a wretched condition. It is a species
of fennel which grows in the moist grounds; the radix is of the knob kind, of a long ovate
form, terminating in a single radicle, the whole being three or four inches long, and the thickest
part about the size of a man's little finger: when fresh, it is white, firm, and crisp; and
when dried and pounded makes a fine white meal. Its flavour is not unlike that of aniseed,
though less pungent. From one to four of these knobbed roots are attached to a single stem
which rises to the height of three or four feet, and is jointed, smooth, cylindric, and has
several small peduncles, one at each joint above the sheathing leaf. Its colour is a deep green,
as is also that of the leaf, which is sheathing, sessile, and polipartite, the divisions being
long and narrow. The flowers, which are now in bloom, are small and numerous, with white and
umbellifferous petals: there are no root leaves. As soon as the seeds have matured, the roots
of the present year as well as the stem decline, and are renewed in the succeeding spring from
the little knot which unites the roots. The sunflower is also abundant here, and the seeds,
which are now ripe, are gathered in considerable quantities, and after being pounded and rubbed
between smooth stones, form a kind of meal, which is a favourite dish among the Indians.

After dinner we continued our route and were soon met by a party of young men on horseback,
who turned with us and went to the village. As soon as we were within sight of it, Cameahwait
requested that we would discharge our guns; the men were therefore drawn up in a single rank,
and gave a running fire of two rounds, to the great satisfaction of the Indians. We then proceeded
to the encampment where we arrived about six o'clock, and were conducted to the leathern lodge
in the centre of thirty-two others made of brush. The baggage was arranged near this tent,
which captain Lewis occupied, and surrounded by those of the men so as to secure it from pillage.
This camp was in a beautiful smooth meadow near the river, and about three miles above their
camp when we first visited the Indians. We here found Colter, who had been sent by captain
Clarke with a note apprising us that there were no hopes of a passage by water, and that the
most practicable route seemed to be that mentioned by his guide, towards the north. Whatever
road we meant to take, it was now necessary to provide ourselves with horses; we therefore
informed Cameahwait of our intention of going to the great river beyond the mountains, and
that we would wish to purchase twenty more horses: he said the Minnetarees had stolen a great
number of their horses this spring, but he still hoped they could spare us that number. This
manliness of character may cause or it may be formed by the nature of their government, which
is perfectly free from any restraint. Each individual is his own master, and the only control
to which his conduct is subjected, is the advice of a chief supported by his influence over
the opinions of the rest of the tribe. The chief himself is in fact no more than the most confidential
person among the warriors, a rank neither distinguished by any external honor, nor invested
by any ceremony, but gradually acquired from the good wishes of his companions and by superior
merit. Such an officer has therefore strictly no power; he may recommend or advise or influence,
but his commands have no effect on those who incline to disobey, and who may at any time withdraw
from their voluntary allegiance. His shadowy authority which cannot survive the confidence
which supports it, often decays with the personal vigour of the chief, or is transferred to
some more fortunate or favourite hero.

In their domestic economy, the man is equally sovereign. The man is the sole proprietor of
his wives and daughters, and can barter them away, or dispose of them in any manner he may
think proper. The children are seldom corrected; the boys, particularly, soon become their
own masters; they are never whipped, for they say that it breaks their spirit, and that after
being flogged they never recover their independence of mind, even when they grow to manhood.
A plurality of wives is very common; but these are not generally sisters, as among the Minnetarees
and Mandans, but are purchased of different fathers. The infant daughters are often betrothed
by the father to men who are grown, either for themselves or for their sons, for whom they
are desirous of providing wives. The compensation to the father is usually made in horses or
mules; and the girl remains with her parents till the age of puberty, which is thirteen or
fourteen, when she is surrendered to her husband. At the same time the father often makes a
present to the husband equal to what he had formerly received as the price of his daughter,
though this return is optional with her parent. Sacajawea had been contracted in this way before
she was taken prisoner, and when we brought her back, her betrothed was still living. Although
he was double the age of Sacajawea, and had two other wives, he claimed her, but on finding
that she had a child by her new husband, Chaboneau, he relinquished his pretensions and said
he did not want her. The Shoshonees are not so importunate in volunteering the services of
their wives as we found the Sioux were; and indeed we observed among them some women who appeared
to be held in more respect than those of any nation we had seen. But the mass of the females
are condemned, as among all savage nations, to the lowest and most laborious drudgery. When
the tribe is stationary, they collect the roots, and cook; they build the huts, dress the skins
and make clothing; collect the wood, and assist in taking care of the horses on the route;
they load the horses and have the charge of all the baggage. The only business of the man is
to fight; he therefore takes on himself the care of his horse, the companion of his warfare;
but he will descend to no other labour than to hunt and to fish. Notwithstanding their losses
this spring they still have at least seven hundred, among which are about forty colts, and
half that number of mules. There are no horses here which can be considered as wild; we have
seen two only on this side of the Muscleshell river which were without owners, and even those
although shy, showed every mark of having been once in the possession of man. The original
stock was procured from the Spaniards, but they now raise their own. The horses are generally
very fine, of a good size, vigorous and patient of fatigue as well as hunger. Each warrior
has one or two tied to a stake near his hut both day and night, so as to be always prepared
for action. The mules are obtained in the course of trade from the Spaniards, with whose brands
several of them are marked, or stolen from them by the frontier Indians. They are the finest
animals of that kind we have ever seen, and at this distance from the Spanish colonies are
very highly valued. The worst are considered as worth the price of two horses, and a good mule
cannot be obtained for less than three and sometimes four horses.

We also saw a bridle bit, stirrups and several other articles which, like the mules, came from
the Spanish colonies. The Shoshonees say that they can reach those settlements in ten days'
march by the route of the Yellowstone river; but we readily perceive that the Spaniards are
by no means favourites. They complain that the Spaniards refuse to let them have fire arms
under pretence that these dangerous weapons will only induce them to kill each other. In the
meantime, say the Shoshonees, we are left to the mercy of the Minnetarees, who having arms,
plunder them of their horses, and put them to death without mercy. "But this should not be,"
said Cameahwait fiercely, "if we had guns, instead of hiding ourselves in the mountains and
living like the bears on roots and berries, we would then go down and live in the buffaloe
country in spite of our enemies, whom we never fear when we meet on equal terms."

Although thus oppressed by the Minnetarees, the Shoshonees are still a very military people.
Their cold and rugged country inures them to fatigue; their long abstinence makes them support
the dangers of mountain warfare, and worn down as we saw them, by want of sustenance, have
a look of fierce and adventurous courage. The Shoshonee warrior always fights on horseback;
he possesses a few bad guns, which are reserved exclusively for war, but his common arms are
the bow and arrow, a shield, a lance and a weapon called by the Chippeways, by whom it was
formerly used, the poggamoggon. The bow is made of cedar or pine covered on the outer side
with sinews and glue. It is about two and a half feet long, and does not differ in shape from
those used by the Sioux, Mandans and Minnetarees. Sometimes, however, the bow is made of a
single piece of the horn of an elk, covered on the back like those of wood with sinews and
glue, and occasionally ornamented by a strand wrought of porcupine quills and sinews, which
is wrapped round the horn near its two ends. The bows made of the horns of the bighorn, are
still more prized, and are formed by cementing with glue flat pieces of the horn together,
covering the back with sinews and glue, and loading the whole with an unusual quantity of ornaments.
The arrows resemble those of the other Indians except in being more slender than any we have
seen. They are contained, with the implements for striking fire, in a narrow quiver formed
of different kinds of skin, though that of the otter seems to be preferred. It is just long
enough to protect the arrows from the weather, and is worn on the back by means of a strap
passing over the right shoulder and under the left arm. The shield is a circular piece of buffaloe
hide about two feet four or five inches in diameter, ornamented with feathers, and a fringe
round it of dressed leather, and adorned or deformed with paintings of strange figures. The
buffaloe hide is perfectly proof against any arrow, but in the minds of the Shoshonees, its
power to protect them is chiefly derived from the virtues which are communicated to it by the
old men and jugglers. The buffaloe skin, which must be the entire hide of a male two years
old, and never suffered to dry since it was taken from the animal, is now laid across the hole,
with the fleshy side to the ground, and stretched in every direction by as many as can take
hold of it. As the skin becomes heated, the hair separates and is taken off by the hand; till
at last the skin is contracted into the compass designed for the shield. It is then taken off
and placed on a hide prepared into parchment, and then pounded during the rest of the festival
by the bare heels of those who are invited to it. This operation sometimes continues for several
days, after which it is delivered to the proprietor, and declared by the old men and jugglers
to be a security against arrows; and provided the feast has been satisfactory, against even
the bullets of their enemies. Such is the delusion, that many of the Indians implicitly believe
that this ceremony has given to the shield supernatural powers, and that they have no longer
to fear any weapons of their enemies.

The paggamoggon is an instrument, consisting of a handle twenty-two inches long, made of wood,
covered with dressed leather about the size of a whip-handle: at one end is a thong of two
inches in length, which is tied to a round stone weighing two pounds and held in a cover of
leather: at the other end is a loop of the same material, which is passed round the wrist so
as to secure the hold of the instrument, with which they strike a very severe blow.

Besides these, they have a kind of armour something like a coat of mail, which is formed by
a great many folds of dressed antelope skins, united by means of a mixture of glue and sand.
With this they cover their own bodies and those of their horses, and find it impervious to
the arrow.

The caparison of their horses is a halter and a saddle: the first is either a rope of six or
seven strands of buffaloe hair platted or twisted together, about the size of a man's finger
and of great strength; or merely a thong of raw hide, made pliant by pounding and rubbing;
though the first kind is much preferred. The halter is very long, and is never taken from the
neck of the horse when in constant use. One end of it is first tied round the neck in a knot
and then brought down to the under jaw, round which it is formed into a simple noose, passing
through the mouth: it is then drawn up on the right side and held by the rider in his left
hand, while the rest trails after him to some distance. At other times the knot is formed at
a little distance from one of the ends, so as to let that end serve as a bridle, while the
other trails on the ground. With these cords dangling along side of them the horse is put to
his full speed without fear of falling, and when he is turned to graze the noose is merely
taken from his mouth. The saddle in formed like the pack-saddles used by the French and Spaniards,
of two flat thin boards which fit the sides of the horse, and are kept together by two cross
pieces, one before and the other behind, which rise to a considerable height, ending sometimes
in a flat point extending outwards, and always making the saddle deep and narrow. Under this
a piece of buffaloe skin, with the hair on, is placed so as to prevent the rubbing of the boards,
and when they mount they throw a piece of skin or robe over the saddle, which has no permanent
cover. When stirrups are used, they consist of wood covered with leather; but stirrups and
saddles are conveniences reserved for old men and women. The young warriors rarely use any
thing except a small leather pad stuffed with hair, and secured by a girth made of a leathern
thong. In this way they ride with great expertness, and they have a particular dexterity in
catching the horse when he is running at large. If he will not immediately submit when they
wish to take him, they make a noose in the rope, and although the horse may be at a distance,
or even running, rarely fail to fix it on his neck; and such is the docility of the animal,
that however unruly he may seem, he surrenders as soon as he feels the rope on him. This cord
is so useful in this way that it is never dispensed with, even when they use the Spanish bridle,
which they prefer, and always procure when they have it in their power. The horse becomes almost
an object of attachment: a favourite is frequently painted and his ears cut into various shapes:
the mane and tail, which are never drawn nor trimmed, are decorated with feathers of birds,
and sometimes a warrior suspends at the breast of his horse the finest ornaments he possesses.

Thus armed and mounted the Shoshonee is a formidable enemy, even with the feeble weapons which
he is still obliged to use. When they attack at full speed they bend forward and cover their
bodies with the shield, while with the right hand they shoot under the horses neck.

The only articles of metal which the Shoshonees possess are a few bad knives, some brass kettles,
some bracelets or armbands of iron and brass, a few buttons worn as ornaments in their hair,
one or two spears about a foot in length, and some heads for arrows made of iron and brass.
All these they had obtained in trading with the Crow or Rocky mountain Indians, who live on
the Yellowstone. The few bridle-bits and stirrups they procured from the Spanish colonies.

The instrument which supplies the place of a knife among them, is a piece of flint with no
regular form, and the sharp part of it not more than one or two inches long: the edge of this
is renewed, and the flint itself is formed into heads for arrows, by means of the point of
a deer or elk horn, an instrument which they use with great art and ingenuity. There are no
axes or hatchets; all the wood being cut with flint or elk-horn, the latter of which is always
used as a wedge in splitting wood. Their utensils consist, besides the brass kettles, of pots
in the form of a jar, made either of earth, or of a stone found in the hills between Madison
and Jefferson rivers, which, though soft and white in its natural state, becomes very hard
and black after exposure to the fire. The horns of the buffaloe and the bighorn supply them
with spoons.

The fire is always kindled by means of a blunt arrow, and a piece of well-seasoned wood of
a soft spongy kind, such as the willow or cottonwood.

The Shoshonees are of a diminutive stature, with thick flat feet and ankles, crooked legs,
and are, generally speaking, worse formed than any nation of Indians we have seen. Their complexion
resembles that of the Sioux, and is darker than that of the Minnetarees, Mandans, or Shawnees.
The hair in both sexes is suffered to fall loosely over the face and down the shoulders: some
men, however, divide it by means of thongs of dressed leather or otter skin into two equal
queues, which hang over the ears and are drawn in front of the body; but at the present moment,
when the nation is afflicted by the loss of so many relations killed in war, most of them have
the hair cut quite short in the neck, and Cameahwait has the hair cut short all over his head,
this being the customary mourning for a deceased kindred.

The dress of the men consists of a robe, a tippet, a shirt, long leggings and moccasins. The
robe is formed most commonly of the skins of antelope, bighorn, or deer, though when it can
be procured, the buffaloe hide is preferred. Sometimes too they are made of beaver, moonax,
and small wolves, and frequently during the summer of elk skin. These are dressed with the
hair on, and reach about as low as the middle of the leg. They are worn loosely over the shoulders,
the sides being at pleasure either left open or drawn together by the hand, and in cold weather
kept close by a girdle round the waist. This robe answers the purpose of a cloak during the
day, and at night is their only covering.

The tippet is the most elegant article of Indian dress we have ever seen. The neck or collar
of it is a strip about four or five inches wide, cut from the back of the otter skin, the nose
and eyes forming one extremity, and the tail another. This being dressed with the fur on, they
attach to one edge of it, from one hundred to two hundred and fifty little rolls of ermine
skin, beginning at the ear, and proceeding towards the tail. These ermine skins are the same
kind of narrow strips from the back of that animal, which are sewed round a small cord of twisted
silkgrass thick enough to make the skin taper towards the tail which hangs from the end, and
are generally about the size of a large quill. These are tied at the head into little bundles,
of two, three or more according to the caprice of the wearer, and then suspended from the collar,
and a broad fringe of ermine skin is fixed so as to cover the parts where they unite, which
might have a coarse appearance. Little tassels of fringe of the same materials are also fastened
to the extremities of the tail, so as to show its black colour to greater advantage. The centre
of the collar is further ornamented with the shells of the pearl oyster. Thus adorned, the
collar is worn close round the neck, and the little rolls fall down over the shoulders nearly
to the waist, so as to form a sort of short cloak, which has a very handsome appearance. These
tippets are very highly esteemed, and are given or disposed of on important occasions only.
The ermine is the fur known to the northwest traders by the name of the white weasel, but is
the genuine ermine; and by encouraging the Indians to take them, might no doubt be rendered
a valuable branch of trade. These animals must be very abundant, for the tippets are in great
numbers, and the construction of each requires at least one hundred skins.

The shirt is a covering of dressed skin without the hair, and formed of the hide of the antelope,
deer, bighorn, or elk, though the last is more rarely used than any other for this purpose.
It fits the body loosely, and reaches half way down the thigh. The aperture at the top is wide
enough to admit the head, and has no collar, but is either left square, or most frequently
terminates in the tail of the animal, which is left entire, so as to fold outwards, though
sometimes the edges are cut into a fringe, and ornamented with quills of the porcupine. The
seams of the shirt are on the sides, and are richly fringed and adorned with porcupine quills,
till within five or six inches of the sleeve, where it is left open, as is also the under side
of the sleeve from the shoulder to the elbow, where it fits closely round the arm as low as
the wrist, and has no fringe like the sides, and the under part of the sleeve above the elbow.
It is kept up by wide shoulder straps, on which the manufacturer displays his taste by the
variety of figures wrought with porcupine quills of different colours, and sometimes by beads
when they can be obtained. The lower end of the shirt retains the natural shape of the fore
legs and neck of the skin, with the addition of a slight fringe; the hair too is left on the
tail and near the hoofs, part of which last is retained and split into a fringe.

The leggings are generally made of antelope skins, dressed without the hair, and with the legs,
tail and neck hanging to them. Each legging is formed of a skin nearly entire, and reaches
from the ancle to the upper part of the thigh, and the legs of the skin are tucked before and
behind under a girdle round the waist. It fits closely to the leg, the tail being worn upwards,
and the neck highly ornamented with fringe and porcupine quills, drags on the ground behind
the heels. As the legs of the animal are tied round the girdle, the wide part of the skin is
drawn so high as to conceal the parts usually kept from view, in which respect their dress
is much more decent than that of any nation of Indians on the Missouri. The seams of the leggings
down the sides, are also fringed and ornamented, and occasionally decorated with tufts of hair
taken from enemies whom they have slain. In making all these dresses, their only thread is
the sinew taken from the backs and loins of deer, elk, buffaloe, or any other animal.

The moccasin is of the deer, elk, or buffaloe skin, dressed without the hair, though in winter
they use the buffaloe skin with the hairy side inward, as do most of the Indians who inhabit
the buffaloe country. Like the Mandan moccasin, it is made with a single seam on the outer
edge, and sewed up behind, a hole being left at the instep to admit the foot. It is variously
ornamented with figures wrought with porcupine quills, and sometimes the young men most fond
of dress, cover it with the skin of a polecat, and trail at their heels the tail of the animal.

The dress of the women consists of the same articles as that of their husbands. The robe though
smaller is worn in the same way: the moccasins are precisely similar. The shirt or chemise
reaches half way down the leg, is in the same form, except that there is no shoulder-strap,
the seam coming quite up to the shoulder; though for women who give suck both sides are open,
almost down to the waist. It is also ornamented in the same way with the addition of little
patches of red cloth, edged round with beads at the skirts. The chief ornament is over the
breast, where there are curious figures made with the usual luxury of porcupine quills. Like
the men they have a girdle round the waist, and when either sex wishes to disengage the arm,
it is drawn up through the hole near the shoulder, and the lower part of the sleeve thrown
behind the body.

Children alone wear beads round their necks; grown persons of both sexes prefer them suspended
in little bunches from the ear, and sometimes intermixed with triangular pieces of the shell
of the pearl oyster. Sometimes the men tie them in the same way to the hair of the forepart
of the head, and increase the beauty of it by adding the wings and tails of birds, and particularly
the feathers of the great eagle or calumet bird, of which they are extremely fond. The collars
are formed either of sea shells procured from their relations to the southwest, or of the sweet-scented
grass which grows in the neighbourhood, and which they twist or plait together, to the thickness
of a man's finger, and then cover with porcupine quills of various colours. The first of these
is worn indiscriminately by both sexes, the second principally confined to the men, while a
string of elk's tusks is a collar almost peculiar to the women and children. Another collar
worn by the men is a string of round bones like the joints of a fish's back, but the collar
most preferred, because most honourable, is one of the claws of the brown bear. To kill one
of these animals is as distinguished an achievement as to have put to death an enemy, and in
fact with their weapons is a more dangerous trial of courage. These claws are suspended on
a thong of dressed leather, and being ornamented with beads, are worn round the neck by the
warriors with great pride. The men also frequently wear the skin of a fox, or a strip of otter
skin round the head in the form of a bandeau.

In short, the dress of the Shoshonees is as convenient and decent as that of any Indians we
have seen.

They have many more children than might have been expected, considering their precarious means
of support and their wandering life. This inconvenience is however balanced by the wonderful
facility with which their females undergo the operations of child-birth. In the most advanced
state of pregnancy they continue their usual occupations, which are scarcely interrupted longer
than the mere time of bringing the child into the world.

The old men are few in number and do not appear to be treated with much tenderness or respect.

The tobacco used by the Shoshonees is not cultivated among them, but obtained from the Indians
of the Rocky mountains, and from some of the bands of their own nation who live south of them;
it is the same plant which is in use among the Minnetarees, Mandans, and Ricaras.

Their chief intercourse with other nations seems to consist in their association with other
Snake Indians, and with the Flatheads when they go eastward to hunt buffaloe, and in the occasional
visits made by the Flatheads to the waters of the Columbia for the purpose of fishing. Their
intercourse with the Spaniards is much more rare, and it furnishes them with a few articles,
such as mules, and some bridles, and other ornaments for horses, which, as well as some of
their kitchen utensils, are also furnished by the bands of Snake Indians from the Yellowstone.
The pearl ornaments which they esteem so highly come from other bands, whom they represent
as their friends and relations, living to the southwest beyond the barren plains on the other
side of the mountains: these relations they say inhabit a good country, abounding with elk,
deer, bear, and antelope, where horses and mules are much more abundant than they are here,
or to use their own expression, as numerous as the grass of the plains.

The diseases incident to this state of life may be supposed to be few, and chiefly the result
of accidents. We were particularly anxious to ascertain whether they had any knowledge of the
venereal disorder. After inquiring by means of the interpreter and his wife, we learnt that
they sometimes suffered from it, and that they most usually die with it; nor could we discover
what was their remedy. It is possible that this disease may have reached them in their circuitous
communications with the whites through the intermediate Indians; but the situation of the Shoshonees
is so insulated, that it is not probable that it could have reached them in that way, and the
existence of such a disorder among the Rocky mountains seems rather a proof of its being aboriginal.

August 27. We were now occupied in determining our route and procuring horses from the Indians.
The old guide who had been sent on by captain Clarke, now confirmed, by means of our interpreter,
what he had already asserted, of a road up Berry creek which would lead to Indian establishments
on another branch of the Columbia: his reports however were contradicted by all the Shoshonees.
This representation we ascribed to a wish on their part to keep us with them during the winter,
as well for the protection we might afford against their enemies, as for the purpose of consuming
our merchandise amongst them; and as the old man promised to conduct us himself, that route
seemed to be the most eligible. We were able to procure some horses, though not enough for
all our purposes. This traffic, and our inquiries and councils with the Indians, consumed the
remainder of the day.

August 28. The purchase of horses was resumed, and our stock raised to twenty-two. Having now
crossed more than once the country which separates the head waters of the Missouri from those
of the Columbia, we can designate the easiest and most expeditious route for a portage; it
is as follows:

From the forks of the river north 60° west, five miles to the point of a hill on the right:
then south 80° west, ten miles to a spot where the creek is ten miles wide, and the highlands
approach within two hundred yards; southwest five miles to a narrow part of the bottom; then
turning south 70° west, two miles to a creek on the right: thence south 80° west, three miles
to a rocky point opposite to a thicket of pines on the left; from that place west, three miles
to the gap where is the fountain of the Missouri: on leaving this fountain south 80° west,
six miles across the dividing ridge, to a run from the right passing several small streams
north 80° west, four miles over hilly ground to the east fork of Lewis's river, which is here
forty yards wide.

Thursday 29. Captain Clarke joined us this morning, and we continued our bargains for horses.
The late misfortunes of the Shoshonees make the price higher than common, so that one horse
cost a pistol, one hundred balls, some powder and a knife; another was changed for a musket,
and in this way we obtained twenty-nine. The horses themselves are young and vigorous, but
they are very poor, and most of them have sore backs in consequence of the roughness of the
Shoshonee saddle. We are therefore afraid of loading them too heavily and are anxious to obtain
one at least for each man to carry the baggage, or the man himself, or in the last resource
to serve as food; but with all our exertions we could not provide all our men with horses.
We have, however, been fortunate in obtaining for the last three days a sufficient supply of
flesh, our hunters having killed two or three deer every day.

Friday 30. The weather was fine, and having now made all our purchases, we loaded our horses,
and prepared to start.

Saturday 31. At sunrise we resumed our journey, and halted for three hours on Salmon creek
to let the horses graze. We then proceeded to the stream called Berry creek eighteen miles
from the camp of last night: as we passed along, the vallies and prairies were on fire in several
places, in order to collect the bands of the Shoshonees and the Flatheads, for their journey
to the Missouri. The weather was warm and sultry, but the only inconvenience which we apprehend
is a dearth of food, of which we had to-day an abundance, having procured a deer, a goose,
one duck and a prairie fowl. On reaching Tower creek we left the former track of captain Clarke,
and began to explore the new route, which is our last hope of getting out of the mountains.
For four miles the road, which is tolerably plain, led us along Berry creek to some old Indian
lodges where we encamped for the night; the next day,

Sunday, September 1, 1805, we followed the same road which here left the creek and turned to
the northwest across the hills. During all day we were riding over these hills, from which
are many drains and small streams running into the river to the left, and at the distance of
eighteen miles, came to a large creek called Fish creek emptying into the Columbia which is
about six miles from us. It had rained in the course of the day, and commenced raining again
towards evening. We therefore determined not to leave the low grounds to night, and after going
up Fish creek four miles formed our encampment. The country over which we passed is well watered,
but poor and rugged or stony, except the bottoms of Fish creek, and even these are narrow.
Two men were sent to purchase fish of the Indians at the mouth of the creek, and with the dried
fish which they obtained, and a deer and a few salmon killed by the party, we were still well
supplied. Two bear also were wounded but we could procure neither of them.

Monday 2. This morning all the Indians left us, except the old guide, who now conducted us
up Fish creek: at one mile and a half we passed a branch of the river coming in through a low
ground covered with pine on the left, and two and a half miles further is a second branch from
the right; after continuing our route along the hills covered with pine, and a low ground of
the same growth, we arrived at the distance of three and a half miles at the forks of the creek.
The road which we were following now turned up the east side of these forks, and as our guide
informed us led to the Missouri. We were therefore left without any track; but as no time was
to be lost we began to cut our road up the west branch of the creek. In the morning,

Tuesday 3, the horses were very stiff and weary. We sent back two men for the load of the horse
which had been crippled yesterday, and which we had been forced to leave two miles behind.
On their return, we set out at eight o'clock, and proceeded up the creek, making a passage
through the brush and timber along its borders. The country is generally supplied with pine,
and in the low grounds is a great abundance of fir trees, and under bushes. The mountains are
high and rugged, and those to the east of us, covered with snow. With all our precautions the
horses were very much injured in passing over the ridges and steep points of the hills, and
to add to the difficulty, at the distance of eleven miles, the high mountains closed the creek,
so that we were obliged to leave the creek to the right, and cross the mountain abruptly. The
ascent was here so steep that several of the horses slipped and hurt themselves, but at last
we succeeded in crossing the mountain, and encamped on a small branch of Fish creek. We had
now made fourteen miles in a direction nearly north from the river; but this distance, though
short, was very fatiguing, and rendered still more disagreeable by the rain which began at
three o'clock. At dusk it commenced snowing, and continued till the ground was covered to the
depth of two inches, when it changed into a sleet. We here met with a serious misfortune the
last of our thermometers being broken by accident. After making a scanty supper on a little
corn and a few pheasants killed in the course of the day, we laid down to sleep, and next morning,

Wednesday 4, found every thing frozen, and the ground covered with snow. We were obliged to
wait some time in order to thaw the covers of the baggage, after which we began our journey
at eight o'clock. We crossed a high mountain which joins the dividing ridge between the waters
of the creek we had been ascending, and those running to the north and west. We had not gone
more than six miles over the snow, when we reached the head of a stream from the right, which
directed its course more to the westward. We descended the steep sides of the hills along its
border, and at the distance of three miles found a small branch coming in from the eastward.
We saw several of the argalia, but they were too shy to be killed, and we therefore made a
dinner from a deer shot by one of the hunters. Then we pursued the course of the stream for
three miles, till it emptied itself into a river from the east. In the wide valley at their
junction, we discovered a large encampment of Indians: when we had reached them and alighted
from our horses, we were received with great cordiality. A council was immediately assembled,
white robes were thrown over our soldiers, and the pipe of peace introduced. After this ceremony,
as it was too late to go any further, we encamped, and continued smoking and conversing with
the chiefs till a late hour.

Friday 6. We continued this morning with the Ootlashoots, from whom we purchased two more horses,
and procured a vocabulary of their language. The Ootlashoots set off about two o'clock to join
the different bands who were collecting at the three forks of the Missouri. We ourselves proceeded
at the same time, and taking a direction N. 30 W. crossed within the distance of one mile and
a half, a small river from the right, and a creek coming in from the north. This river is the
main stream, and when it reaches the end of the valley, where the mountains close in upon it,
is joined by the river on which we encamped last evening, as well as by the creek just mentioned.
To the river thus formed we gave the name of captain Clarke, he being the first white man who
had ever visited its waters. At the end of five miles on this course we had crossed the valley,
and reached the top of a mountain covered with pine; this we descended along the steep sides
and ravines for a mile and a half, when we came to a spot on the river, where the Ootlashoots
had encamped a few days before. We then followed the course of the river, which is from twenty-five
to thirty yards wide, shallow, stony, and the low grounds on its borders narrow. Within the
distance of three and a half miles, we crossed it several times, and after passing a run on
each side, encamped on its right bank, after making ten miles during the afternoon. The horses
were turned out to graze, but those we had lately bought were secured and watched, lest they
should escape, or be stolen by their former owners. Our stock of flour was now exhausted, and
we had but little corn, and as our hunters had killed nothing except two pheasants, our supper
consisted chiefly of berries.

Saturday, 7. The greater part of the day the weather was dark and rainy: we continued through
the narrow low grounds along the river, till at the distance of six miles we came to a large
creek from the left, after which the bottoms widen. Four miles lower is another creek on the
same side, and the valley now extends from one to three miles, the mountains on the left being
high and bald, with snow on the summits, while the country to the right is open and hilly.
Four miles beyond this is a creek running from the snow-top'd mountains, and several runs on
both sides of the river. Two miles from this last is another creek on the left. The afternoon
was now far advanced, but not being able to find a fit place to encamp we continued six miles
further till after dark, when we halted for the night. The river here is still shallow and
stony, but is increased to the width of fifty yards. The valley through which we passed is
of a poor soil, and its fertility injured by the quantity of stone scattered over it. We met
two horses which had strayed from the Indians and were now quite wild. No fish was to be seen
in the river, but we obtained a very agreeable supply of two deer, two cranes, and two pheasants.

Sunday, 8. We set out early: the snow-top'd hills on the left approach the river near our camp,
but we soon reached a valley four or five miles wide, through which we followed the course
of the river in a direction due north. We passed three creeks on the right, and several runs
emptying themselves into the opposite side of the river. At the distance of eleven miles the
river turned more towards the west: we pursued it for twelve miles, and encamped near a large
creek coming in from the right, which, from its being divided into four different channels,
we called Scattering creek. The valley continues to be a poor stony land, with scarcely any
timber, except some pine trees along the waters and partially scattered on the hills to the
right, which, as well as those on the left, have snow on them. The plant which forces itself
most on our attention is a species of prickly pear very common on this part of the river: it
grows in clusters, in an oval form about the size of a pigeon's egg, and its thorns are so
strong and bearded, that when it penetrates our feet it brings away the pear itself. We saw
two mares and a colt, which, like the horses seen yesterday, seemed to have lost themselves
and become wild. Our game to-day consisted of two deer, an elk, and a prairie fowl.

Monday, 9. We resumed our journey through the valley, and leaving the road on our right crossed
the Scattering creek, and halted at the distance of twelve miles on a small run from the east,
where we breakfasted on the remains of yesterday's hunt: we here took a meridian altitude,
which gave the latitude of 46° 41' 38" 9"': we then continued, and at the distance of four
miles passed over to the left bank of the river, where we found a large road through the valley.
At this place is a handsome stream of very clear water, a hundred yards wide with low banks,
and a bed formed entirely of gravel: it has every appearance of being navigable, but as it
contains no salmon, we presume there must be some fall below which obstructs their passage.
Our guide could not inform us where this river discharged its waters; he said that as far as
he knew its course it ran along the mountains to the north, and that not far from our present
position it was joined by another stream nearly as large as itself, which rises in the mountains
to the east near the Missouri, and flows through an extensive valley or open prairie. Through
this prairie is the great Indian road to the waters of the Missouri; and so direct is the route,
that in four days' journey from this place we might reach the Missouri about thirty miles above
what we called the Gates of the Rocky mountains, or the spot where the valley of that river
widens into an extensive plain on entering the chain of mountains. At ten miles from our camp
is a small creek falling in from the eastward, five miles below which we halted at a large
stream which empties itself on the west side of the river. It is a fine bold creek of clear
water about twenty yards wide, and we called it Traveller's-rest creek; for as our guide told
us that we should here leave the river, we determined to remain for the purpose of making celestial
observations and collecting some food, as the country through which we are to pass has no game
for a great distance.

The valley of the river through which we have been passing is generally a prairie from five
to six miles in width, and with a cold gravelly white soil. The timber which it possesses is
almost exclusively pine, chiefly of the long-leafed kind, with some spruce, and a species of
fir resembling the Scotch fir: near the water courses are also seen a few narrow-leafed cottonwood
trees, and the only underbrush is the redwood, honeysuckle, and rosebushes. Our game was four
deer, three geese, four ducks, and three prairie fowls; one of the hunters brought in a red-headed
woodpecker of the large kind common in the United States, but the first of the kind we have
seen since leaving the Illinois.

Tuesday, 10. The morning being fair all the hunters were sent out, and the rest of the party
employed in repairing their clothes: two of them were sent to the junction of the river from
the east, along which the Indians go to the Missouri: it is about seven miles below Traveller's-rest
creek; the country at the forks is seven or eight miles wide, level and open, but with little
timber; its course is to the north, and we incline to believe that this is the river which
the Minnetarees had described to us as running from south to north along the west side of the
Rocky mountains, not far from the sources of Medicine river: there is moreover reason to suppose,
that after going as far northward as the head-waters of that river it turns to the westward
and joins the Tacootchetessee. Towards evening one of the hunters returned with three Indians,
whom he had met in his excursion up Traveller's-rest creek: as soon as they saw him they prepared
to attack him with arrows, but he quieted them by laying down his gun and advancing towards
them, and soon persuaded them to come to the camp. Our Shoshonee guide could not speak the
language of these people, but by the universal language of signs and gesticulations, which
is perfectly intelligible among the Indians, he found that these were three Tushepaw Flatheads
in pursuit of two men, supposed to be Shoshonees, who had stolen twenty-three of their horses:
we gave them some boiled venison and a few presents; such as a fishhook, a steel to strike
fire, and a little powder; but they seemed better pleased with a piece of riband which we tied
in the hair of each of them. They were however in such haste, lest their horses should be carried
off, that two of them set off after sunset in quest of the robbers: the third however was persuaded
to remain with us and conduct us to his relations: these he said were numerous, and resided
on the Columbia in the plain below the mountains. From that place he added, the river was navigable
to the ocean; that some of his relations had been there last fall and seen an old white man
who resided there by himself, and who gave them some handkerchiefs like those we have. The
distance from this place is five sleeps or days' journey. When our hunters had all joined us
we found our provisions consisted of four deer, a beaver, and three grouse.

The observation of to-day gave 46° 48' 28" as the latitude of Travellers-rest creek.

Wednesday 11. Two of our horses having strayed away we were detained all the morning before
they were caught. In the meantime our Tushepaw Indian became impatient of the delay, and set
out to return home alone. As usual we had dispatched four of our best hunters ahead, and as
we hoped with their aid and our present stock of provisions to subsist on the route, we proceeded
at three o'clock up the right side of the creek, and encamped under some old Indian huts at
the distance of seven miles. The road was plain and good; the valley is however narrower than
that which we left and bordered by high and rugged hills to the right, while the mountains
on the left were covered with snow. The day was fair and warm, the wind from the northwest.

Thursday 12. There was a white frost this morning. We proceeded at seven o'clock and soon passed
a stream falling in on the right, near which was an old Indian camp with a bath or sweating-house
covered with earth. At two miles distance we ascended a high, and thence continued through
a hilly and thickly timbered country for nine miles, when we came to the forks of the creek,
where the road branches up each fork. We followed the western route, and finding that the creek
made a considerable bend at the distance of four miles, crossed a high mountain in order to
avoid the circuit. The road had been very bad during the first part of the day, but the passage
of the mountain, which was eight miles across, was very painful to the horses, as we were obliged
to go over steep stony sides of hills and along the hollows and ravines, rendered more disagreeable*
by the fallen timber, chiefly pine, spruce pine and fir. We at length reached the creek, having
made twenty-three miles of a route so difficult that some of the party did not join us before
ten o'clock. We found the account of the scantiness of game but too true, as we were not able
to procure any thing during the whole of yesterday, and to-day we killed only a single pheasant.
Along the road we observed many of the pine trees pealed off, which is done by the Indians
to procure the inner bark for food in the spring.

Friday 13. Two of the horses strayed away during the night, and one of them being captain Lewis's,
he remained with four men to search for them while we proceeded up the creek: at the distance
of two miles we came to several springs issuing from large rocks of a coarse hard grit, and
nearly boiling hot. Those seem to be much frequented as there are several paths made by elk,
deer and other animals, and near one of the springs a hole or Indian bath, and roads leading
in different directions. These embarrassed our guide, who mistaking the road took us three
miles out of the proper course over an exceedingly bad route. We then fell into the right road,
and proceeded on very well, when having made five miles we stopped to refresh the horses. Captain
Lewis here joined us, but not having been able to find his horse two men were sent back to
continue the search. We then proceeded along the same kind of country which we passed yesterday,
and after crossing a mountain and leaving the sources of the Travellers-rest creek on the left,
reached after five miles riding a small creek which also came in from the left hand, passing
through open glades, some of which were half a mile wide. The road which had been as usual
rugged and stony, became firm, plain and level after quitting the head of Travellers-rest.
We followed the course of this new creek for two miles and encamped at a spot where the mountains
close on each side. Other mountains covered with snow are in view to the southeast and southwest.
We were somewhat more fortunate to-day in killing a deer and several pheasants which were of
the common species, except that the tail was black.

Saturday 14. The day was very cloudy with rain and hail in the vallies, while on the top of
the mountains some snow fell. We proceeded early, and continuing along the right side of Glade
creek crossed a high mountain, and at the distance of six miles reached the place where it
is joined by another branch of equal size from the right. Near the forks the Tushepaws have
had an encampment which is but recently abandoned, for the grass is entirely destroyed by horses,
and two fish weirs across the creek are still remaining; no fish were however to be seen. We
here passed over to the left side of the creek and began the ascent of a very high and steep
mountain nine miles across. On reaching the other side we found a large branch from the left,
which seems to rise in the snowy mountains to the south and southeast. We continued along the
creek two miles further, when night coming on we encamped opposite a small island at the mouth
of a branch on the right side of the river. The mountains which we crossed to-day were much
more difficult than those of yesterday; the last was particularly fatiguing, being steep and
stony, broken by fallen timber, and thickly overgrown by pine, spruce, fir, haematack and tamarac.
Although we had made only seventeen miles we were all very weary. The whole stock of animal
food was now exhausted, and we therefore killed a colt, on which we made a hearty supper. From
this incident we called the last creek we had passed from the south Colt-killed creek. The
river itself is eighty yards wide, with a swift current, and a stony channel. Its Indian name
is Kooskooskee.

Sunday 15. At an early hour we proceeded along the right side of the Kooskooskee over steep
rocky points of land, till at the distance of four miles we reached an old Indian fishing place:
the road here turned to the right of the water, and began to ascend a mountain: but the fire
and wind had prostrated or dried almost all the timber on the south side, and the ascents were
so steep that we were forced to wind in every direction round the high knobs which constantly
impeded our progress. Several of the horses lost their foot-hold and slipped: one of them which
was loaded with a desk and small trunk, rolled over and over for forty yards, till his fall
was stopped by a tree. The desk was broken; but the poor animal escaped without much injury.
After clambering in this way for four miles, we came to a high snowy part of the mountain where
was a spring of water, at which we halted two hours to refresh our horses.

On leaving the spring the road continued as bad as it was below, and the timber more abundant.
At four miles we reached the top of the mountain, and foreseeing no chance of meeting with
water, we encamped on the northern side of the mountain, near an old bank of snow, three feet
deep. All around us are high rugged mountains, among which is a lofty range from southeast
to northwest, whose tops are without timber, and in some places covered with snow.

At noon we halted to let the horses feed on some long grass on the south side of the mountains,
and endeavoured by making fires to keep ourselves warm. As soon as the horses were refreshed,
captain Clarke went ahead with one man, and at the distance of six miles reached a stream from
the right, and prepared fires by the time of our arrival at dusk.

Tuesday 17. Our horses became so much scattered during the night, that we were detained till
one o'clock before they were all collected. We then continued our route over high rough knobs,
and several drains and springs, and along a ridge of country separating the waters of two small
rivers. The road was still difficult, and several of the horses fell and injured themselves
very much, so that we were unable to advance more than ten miles to a small stream, on which
we encamped.

We had killed a few pheasants, but these being insufficient for our subsistence, we killed
another of the colts. This want of provisions, and the extreme fatigue to which we were subjected,
and the dreary prospects before us, began to dispirit the men. It was therefore agreed that
captain Clarke should go on ahead with six hunters, and endeavour to kill something for the
support of the party. He therefore set out,

Wednesday 18, early in the morning in hopes of finding a level country from which he might
send back some game. His route lay S. 85° W., along the same high dividing ridge, and the road
was still very bad; but he moved on rapidly, and at the distance of twenty miles was rejoiced
on discovering far off an extensive plain towards the west and southwest, bounded by a high
mountain. He halted an hour to let the horses eat a little grass on the hill sides, and then
went on twelve and a half miles till he reached a bold creek, running to the left, on which
he encamped. To this stream he gave the very appropriate name of Hungry creek; for having procured
no game, they had nothing to eat.

In the meantime we were detained till after eight o'clock by the loss of one of our horses
which had strayed away and could not be found. We then proceeded, but having soon finished
the remainder of the colt killed yesterday, felt the want of provisions, which was more sensible
from our meeting with no water, till towards nightfall we found some in a ravine among the
hills. By pushing on our horses almost to their utmost strength, we made eighteen miles.

Thursday 19. Two miles beyond this he left the creek, and crossed three high mountains, rendered
almost impassable from the steepness of the ascent and the quantity of fallen timber. After
clambering over these ridges and mountains, and passing the heads of some branches of Hungry
creek, he came to a large creek running westward. This he followed for four miles, then turned
to the right down the mountain, till he came to a small creek to the left. Here he halted,
having made twenty-two miles on his course, south eighty degrees west, though the winding route
over the mountains almost doubled the distance. On descending the last mountain, the heat became
much more sensible after the extreme cold he had experienced for several days past. Besides
the breakfast in the morning, two pheasants were their only food during the day, and the only
kinds of birds they saw were the blue jay, a small white-headed hawk, a larger hawk, crows,
and ravens.

We followed soon after sunrise. At six miles the ridge terminated and we had before us the
cheering prospect of the large plain to the southwest. On leaving the ridge we again ascended
and went down several mountains, and six miles further came to Hungry creek where it was fifteen
yards wide, and received the waters of a branch from the north. We went up it on a course nearly
due west, and at three miles crossed a second branch flowing from the same quarter. The country
is thickly covered with pine timber, of which we have enumerated eight distinct species. Three
miles beyond this last branch of Hungry creek we encamped, after a fatiguing route of eighteen
miles.

Friday 20. Captain Clarke went on through a country as rugged as usual, till on passing a low
mountain he came at the distance of four miles to the forks of a large creek. Down this he
kept on a course south 60° west for two miles, then turning to the right, continued over a
dividing ridge where were the heads of several little streams, and at twelve miles distance
descended the last of the rocky mountains and reached the level country. A beautiful open plain
partially supplied with pine now presented itself. He continued for five miles when he discovered
three Indian boys, who, on observing the party, ran off and hid themselves in the grass. Captain
Clarke immediately alighted, and giving his horse and gun to one of the men went after the
boys. He soon relieved their apprehensions and sent them forward to the village about a mile
off with presents of small pieces of riband.

We were detained till ten o'clock before we could collect our scattered horses; we then proceeded
for two miles, when to our great joy we found the horse which captain Clarke had killed, and
a note apprising us of his intention of going to the plains towards the southwest, and collect
provisions by the time we reached him. At one o'clock we halted on a small stream, and made
a hearty meal of horse flesh. On examination it now appeared that one of the horses was missing,
and the man in whose charge he had been, was directed to return and search for him. He came
back in about two hours without having been able to find the horse; but as the load was too
valuable to be lost, two of the best woodsmen were directed to continue the search while we
proceeded. Our general course was south 25° west through a thick forest of large pine, which
has fallen in many places, and very much obstructs the road. After making about fifteen miles
we encamped on a ridge where we could find but little grass and no water. We succeeded, however,
in procuring a little from a distance, and supped on the remainder of the horse.

On descending the heights of the mountains the soil becomes gradually more fertile, and the
land through which we passed this evening, is of an excellent quality. It has a dark gray soil,
though very broken, and with large masses of gray free-stone above the ground in many places.
Among the vegetable productions we distinguished the alder, honeysuckle, and huckleberry, common
in the United States, and a species of honeysuckle, known only westward of the Rocky mountains,
which rises to the height of about four feet, and bears a white berry. There is also a plant
resembling the chokecherry, which grows in thick clumps eight or ten feet high, and bears a
black berry with a single stone of a sweetish taste. The arbor vitæ too, is very common, and
grows to a great size, being from two to six feet in diameter.

Saturday 21. The free use of food, to which he had not been accustomed, made captain Clarke
very sick both yesterday evening and during the whole of to-day. He therefore sent out all
the hunters and remained himself at the village, as well on account of his sickness as for
the purpose of avoiding suspicion and collecting information from the Indians as to the route.

The two villages consist of about thirty double tents, and the inhabitants call themselves
Chopunnish or Pierced-nose. The chief drew a chart of the river, and explained, that a greater
chief than himself, who governed this village and was called the Twisted-hair, was now fishing
at the distance of half a day's ride down the river: his chart made the Kooskooskee fork a
little below his camp, a second fork below, still further on a large branch flowed in on each
side, below which the river passed the mountains: here was a great fall of water, near which
lived white people, from whom were procured the white beads and brass ornaments worn by the women.

A chief of another band made a visit this morning, and smoked with captain Clarke. The hunters
returned without having been able to kill any thing; captain Clarke purchased as much dried
salmon, roots, and berries as he could, with the few articles he chanced to have in his pockets,
and having sent them by one of the men and a hired Indian back to captain Lewis, he went on
towards the camp of the Twisted-hair. It was four o'clock before he set out, and the night
soon came on; but having met an Indian coming from the river, they engaged him by a present
of a neckcloth, to guide them to the Twisted-hair's camp. For twelve miles they proceeded through
the plain before they reached the river hills, which are very high and steep. The whole valley
from these hills to the Rocky mountain is a beautiful level country, with a rich soil covered
with grass: there is, however, but little timber, and the ground is badly watered: the plain
is so much lower than the surrounding hills, or so much sheltered by them, that the weather
is quite warm, while the cold of the mountains was extreme. From the top of the river hills
they proceeded down for three miles till they reached the water side, between eleven and twelve
o'clock at night: here we found a small camp of five squaws and three children, the chief himself
being encamped, with two others, on a small island in the river: the guide called to him and
he soon came over. Captain Clarke gave him a medal, and they smoked together till one o'clock.
At that hour we continued along the ridge on which we had slept, and at a mile and a half reached
a large creek running to our left, just above its junction with one of its branches. We proceeded
down the low grounds of this creek, which are level, wide, and heavily timbered, but turned
to the right at the distance of two and a half miles, and began to pass the broken and hilly
country; but the thick timber had fallen in so many places that we could scarcely make our
way. After going five miles we passed the creek on which captain Clarke had encamped during
the night of the 19th, and continued five miles further over the same kind of road, till we
came to the forks of a large creek. We crossed the northern branch of this stream, and proceeded
down it on the west side for a mile: here we found a small plain where there was tolerable
grass for the horses, and therefore remained during the night, having made fifteen miles on
a course S. 30° W.

The arbor vitæ increases in size and quantity as we advance: some of the trees we passed to-day
being capable of forming periogues at least forty-five feet in length.

Sunday, 22. Captain Clarke passed over to the island with the Twisted-hair, who seemed to be
cheerful and sincere in his conduct. The river at this place is about one hundred and sixty
yards wide, but interrupted by shoals, and the low grounds on its borders are narrow. The hunters
brought in three deer; after which Captain Clarke left his party, and accompanied by the Twisted-hair
and his son, rode back to the village, where he arrived about sunset: they then walked up together
to the second village, where we had just arrived. We had intended to set out early, but one
of the men having neglected to hobble his horse he strayed away, and we were obliged to wait
till nearly twelve o'clock. We then proceeded on a western course for two and a half miles,
when we met the hunters sent by Captain Clarke from the village, seven and a half miles distant,
with provisions. This supply was most seasonable, as we had tasted nothing since last night,
and the fish, and roots, and berries, in addition to a crow which we killed on the route, completely
satisfied our hunger. After this refreshment we proceeded in much better spirits, and at a
few miles were overtaken by the two men who had been sent back after a horse on the 20th. They
were perfectly exhausted with the fatigue of walking and the want of food; but as we had two
spare horses they were mounted and brought on to the village.

They had set out about three o'clock in the afternoon of the 20th with one horse between them:
after crossing the mountain they came to the place where we had eaten the horse. Here they
encamped, and having no food made a fire and roasted the head of the horse, which even our
appetites had spared, and supped on the ears, skin, lips, &c. of the animal. The next morning,
21st, they found the track of the horse, and pursuing it recovered the saddle-bags, and at
length about eleven o'clock, the horse himself. Being now both mounted, they set out to return
and slept at a small stream: during the day they had nothing at all except two pheasants, which
were so torn to pieces by the shot, that the head and legs were the only parts fit for food.
In this situation they found the next morning, 22d, that during the night their horses had
run away from them or been stolen by the Indians. They searched for them until nine o'clock,
when seeing that they could not recover them and fearful of starving if they remained where
they were, they set out on foot to join us, carrying the saddle-bags alternately. They walked
as fast as they could during the day, till they reached us in a deplorable state of weakness
and inanition. Our inquiries were chiefly directed to the situation of the country, the courses
of the rivers, and the Indian villages, of all which we received information from several of
the Indians, and as their accounts varied but little from each other, we were induced to place
confidence in them. This was the story of the Twisted-hair.

Monday 23. The chiefs and warriors were all assembled this morning, and we explained to them
where we came from, the objects of our visiting them, and our pacific intentions towards all
the Indians. This being conveyed by signs, might not have been perfectly comprehended, but
appeared to give perfect satisfaction. We now gave a medal to two of the chiefs, a shirt in
addition to the medal already received by the Twisted-hair, and delivered a flag and a handkerchief
for the grand chief on his return. To these were added a knife, a handkerchief and a small
piece of tobacco for each chief. The inhabitants did not give us any provisions gratuitously.
We therefore purchased a quantity of fish, berries (chiefly red haws) and roots; and in the
afternoon went on to the second village. The Twisted-hair introduced us into his own tent,
which consisted however of nothing more than pine bushes and bark, and gave us some dried salmon
boiled. We continued our purchases, and obtained as much provision as our horses could carry
in their present weak condition as far as the river. The men exchanged a few old canisters
for dressed elk skins, of which they made shirts: great crowds of the natives are round us
all night, but we have not yet missed any thing except a knife and a few other articles stolen
yesterday from a shot pouch. At dark we had a hard wind from the southwest accompanied with
rain which lasted half an hour, but in the morning,

Tuesday 24, the weather was fair. We sent back Colter in search of the horses lost in the mountains,
and having collected the rest set out at ten o'clock along the same route already passed by
captain Clarke towards the river.

Wednesday 25. The weather was very hot, and oppressive to the party, most of whom are now complaining
of sickness. Our situation indeed, rendered it necessary to husband our remaining strength,
and it was determined to proceed down the river in canoes. Captain Clarke therefore set out
with the Twisted-hair and two young men, in quest of timber for canoes. As he went down the
river he crossed at the distance of a mile a creek from the right, which from the rocks that
obstructed its passage, he called Rockdam river. The hills along the river are high and steep:
the low grounds are narrow, and the navigation of the river embarrassed by two rapids. At the
distance of three miles further he reached two nearly equal forks of the river, one of which
flowed in from the north. Here he rested for an hour, and cooked a few salmon which one of
the Indians caught with a gig. Here too, he was joined by two canoes of Indians from below:
they were long, steady, and loaded with the furniture and provisions of two families. He now
crossed the south fork, and returned to the camp on the south side, through a narrow pine bottom
the greater part of the way, in which was found much fine timber for canoes. One of the Indian
boats with two men, set out at the same time, and such was their dexterity in managing the
pole, that they reached camp within fifteen minutes after him, although they had to drag the
canoe over three rapids. He found captain Lewis, and several of the men still very sick; and
distributed to such as were in need of it, salts and tartar emetic.

Thursday 26. Having resolved to go down to some spot calculated for building canoes, we set
out early this morning and proceeded five miles, and encamped on low ground on the south, opposite
the forks of the river. But so weak were the men that several were taken sick in coming down;
the weather being oppressively hot. Two chiefs and their families followed us, and encamped
with a great number of horses near us: and soon after our arrival we were joined by two Indians,
who came down the north fork on a raft. We purchased some fresh salmon, and having distributed
axes, and portioned off the labour of the party, began,

Friday 27, at an early hour, the preparations for making five canoes. But few of the men, however,
were able to work, and of these several were soon taken ill, as the day proved very hot. The
hunters too, returned without any game, and seriously indisposed, so that nearly the whole
party was now ill. We procured some fresh salmon; and Colter, who now returned with one of
the horses, brought half a deer, which was very nourishing to the invalids: several Indians
from a camp below, came up to see us.

Saturday 28. The men continue ill, though some of those first attacked are recovering. Their
general complaint is a heaviness at the stomach, and a lax, which is rendered more painful
by the heat of the weather, and the diet of fish and roots, to which they are confined, as
no game is to be procured. A number of Indians collect about us in the course of the day to
gaze at the strange appearance of every thing belonging to us.

Sunday 29. The morning was cool, the wind from the southwest; but in the afternoon the heat
returned. The men continue ill; but all those who are able to work are occupied at the canoes.
The spirits of the party were much recruited by three deer brought in by the hunters; and the
next day,

Monday 30th, the sick began to recruit their strength, the morning being fair and pleasant.
The Indians pass in great numbers up and down the river, and we observe large quantities of
small duck going down this morning.

Tuesday, October 1, 1805. The morning was cool, the wind easterly, but the latter part of the
day was warm. We were visited by several Indians from the tribes below, and others from the
main south fork. To two of the most distinguished men, we made presents of a ring and broach,
and to five others a piece of riband, a little tobacco, and the fifth part of a neckcloth.
We now dried our clothes and other articles, and selected some articles such as the Indians
admire, in order to purchase some provisions, as we have nothing left except a little dried
fish, which operates as a complete purgative.

Wednesday 2. The day is very warm. Two men were sent to the village with a quantity of these
articles to purchase food. We are now reduced to roots, which produce violent pains in the
stomach. Our work continued as usual, and many of the party are convalescent. The hunters returned
in the afternoon with nothing but a small prairie-wolf, so that our provisions being exhausted,
we killed one of the horses to eat, and provide soup for the sick.

Thursday 3. The fine cool morning and easterly wind had an agreeable effect upon the party,
most of whom are now able to work. The Indians from below left us, and we were visited by others
from different quarters.

Friday 4. Again we had a cool east wind from the mountains. The men were now much better, and
captain Lewis himself so far recovered as to walk about a little. Three Indians arrived to-day
from the Great river to the south. The two men also returned from the village with roots and
fish, and as the flesh of the horse killed yesterday was exhausted, we were confined to that
diet, although unwholesome as well as unpleasant. The afternoon was warm.

Saturday 5. The wind easterly, and the weather cool. The canoes being nearly finished it became
necessary to dispose of our horses. They were therefore collected to the number of thirty-eight,
and being branded and marked were delivered to three Indians, the two brothers and the son
of a chief, who promises to accompany us down the river. To each of those men we gave a knife
and some small articles, and they agreed to take good care of the horses till our return. The
hunters with all their diligence are unable to kill any thing, the hills being high and rugged,
and the woods too dry to hunt deer, which is the only game in the country. We therefore continue
to eat dried fish and roots, which are purchased from the squaws, by means of small presents,
but chiefly white beads, of which they are extravagantly fond. Some of these roots seem to
possess very active properties, for after supping on them this evening, we were swelled to
such a degree as to be scarcely able to breathe for several hours. Towards night we lanched
two canoes which proved to be very good.

Sunday 6. This morning is again cool, and the wind easterly. The general course of the winds
seems to resemble that which we observed on the east side of the mountain. While on the head
waters of the Missouri, we had every morning a cool wind from the west. At this place a cool
breeze springs up during the latter part of the night, or near daybreak, and continues till
seven or eight o'clock, when it subsides, and the latter part of the day is warm. Captain Lewis
is not so well as he was, and captain Clarke was also taken ill. We had all our saddles buried
in a cache near the river, about half a mile below, and deposited at the same time a canister
of powder, and a bag of balls. The time which could be spared from our labours on the canoes,
was devoted to some astronomical observations. The latitude of our camp as deduced from the
mean of two observations is 46° 34' 56" 3"' north.

Monday 7. This morning all the canoes were put in the water and loaded, the oars fixed, and
every preparation made for setting out but when we were all ready, the two chiefs who had promised
to accompany us, were not to be found, and at the same time we missed a pipe tomahawk. We therefore
proceeded without them. Below the forks this river is called the Kooskooskee, and is a clear
rapid stream, with a number of shoals and difficult places. For some miles the hills are steep,
the low grounds narrow, but then succeeds an open country with a few trees scattered along
the river. At the distance of nine miles is a small creek on the left. We passed in the course
of the day ten rapids, in descending which, one of the canoes struck a rock, and sprung a leak:
we however continued for nineteen miles, and encamped on the left side of the river, opposite
to the mouth of a small run. Here the canoe was unloaded and repaired, and two lead canisters
of powder deposited; several camps of Indians were on the sides of the river, but we had little
intercourse with any of them.

Tuesday 8. We set out at nine o'clock. At eight and a half miles we passed an island: four
and a half miles lower a second island, opposite a small creek on the left side of the river.
Five miles lower is another island on the left: a mile and a half below which is a fourth.
At a short distance from this is a large creek from the right, to which we gave the name of
Colter's creek, from Colter one of the men. We had left this creek about a mile and a half,
and were passing the last of fifteen rapids which we had been fortunate enough to escape, when
one of the canoes struck, and a hole being made in her side, she immediately filled and sunk.
The men, several of whom could not swim, clung to the boat till one of our canoes could be
unloaded, and with the assistance of an Indian boat, they were all brought to shore. All the
goods were so much wet, that we were obliged to halt for the night, and spread them out to
dry. While all this was exhibited, it was necessary to place two sentinels over the merchandise,
for we found that the Indians, though kind and disposed to give us every aid during our distress,
could not resist the temptation of pilfering some of the small articles. We passed during our
route of twenty miles to-day, several encampments of Indians on the islands, and near the rapids,
which places are chosen as most convenient for taking salmon. At one of these camps we found
our two chiefs, who after promising to descend the river with us, had left us; they however
willingly came on board after we had gone through the ceremony of smoking.

Wednesday, 9.

Thursday, 10. A fine morning. We loaded the canoes and set off at seven o'clock. At the distance
of two and a half miles we had passed three islands, the last of which is opposite to a small
stream on the right. Within the following three and a half miles is another island and a creek
on the left, with wide low grounds, containing willow and cottonwood trees, on which were three
tents of Indians. Two miles lower is the head of a large island, and six and a half miles further
we halted at an encampment of eight lodges on the left, in order to view a rapid before us:
we had already passed eight, and some of them difficult; but this was worse than any of them,
being a very hazardous ripple strewed with rocks: we here purchased roots and dined with the
Indians. Among them was a man from the falls, who says that he saw white people at that place
and is very desirous of going down with us; an offer which however we declined. Just above
this camp we had passed a tent, near which was an Indian bathing himself in a small pond or
hole of water, warmed by throwing in hot stones. After finishing our meal we descended the
rapid with no injury, except to one of our boats which ran against a rock, but in the course
of an hour was brought off with only a small split in her side. This ripple, from its appearance
and difficulty, we named the Rugged rapid.

The country at the junction of the two rivers is an open plain on all sides, broken towards
the left by a distant ridge of highland, thinly covered with timber: this is the only body
of timber which the country possesses; for at the forks there is not a tree to be seen, and
during almost the whole descent of sixty miles down the Kooskooskee from its forks there are
very few. This southern branch is in fact the main stream of Lewis's river on which we encamped
when among the Shoshonees. The Indians inform us that it is navigable for sixty miles; that
not far from its mouth it receives a branch from the south; and a second and larger branch,
two days' march up, and nearly parallel to the first Chopunnish villages, we met near the mountains.
This branch is called Pawnashte, and is the residence of a chief, who, according to their expression,
has more horses than he can count. The river has many rapids, near which are situated many
fishing camps; there being ten establishments of this before reaching the first southern branch;
one on that stream, five between that and the Pawnashte; one on that river, and two above it;
besides many other Indians who reside high up on the more distant waters of this river. All
these Indians belong to the Chopunnish nation, and live in tents of an oblong form, covered
with flat roofs.

At its mouth Lewis's river is about two hundred and fifty yards wide, and its water is of a
greenish blue colour. The Kooskooskee, whose waters are clear as crystal, one hundred and fifty
yards in width, and after the union the river enlarges to the space of three hundred yards:
at the point of the union is an Indian cabin, and in Lewis's river a small island. The dress
of the female is indeed more modest, and more studiously so than any we have observed, though
the other sex is careless of the indelicacy of exposure. Though originally the same people,
their dialect varies very perceptibly from that of the Tushepaws: their treatment to us differed
much from the kind and disinterested services of the Shoshonees: they are indeed selfish and
avaricious; they part very reluctantly with every article of food or clothing; and while they
expect a recompense for every service however small, do not concern themselves about reciprocating
any presents we may give them.

They are generally healthy--the only disorders which we have had occasion to remark being of
a scrophulous kind, and for these, as well as for the amusement of those who are in good health,
hot and cold bathing is very commonly used.

The soil of these prairies is of a light yellow clay intermixed with small smooth grass: it
is barren, and produces little more than a bearded grass about three inches high, and a prickly
pear, of which we now found three species: the first is of the broad-leafed kind, common to
the Missouri. The second has the leaf of a globular form, and is also frequent on the upper
part of the Missouri, particularly after it enters the Rocky mountains. The third is pecular
to this country, and is much more inconvenient than the other two: it consists of small thick
leaves of a circular form, which grow from the margin of each other as in the broad-leafed
pear of the Missouri: these leaves are armed with a greater number of thorns, which are stronger,
and appear to be barbed; and as the leaf itself is very slightly attached to the stem, as soon
as one thorn touches the moccasin it adheres and brings with it the leaf, which is accompanied
by a reenforecement of thorns.

                            END OF VOLUME 1.