At the head of the bed, a portrait inclined over the invalid and seemed to gaze sternly at
her. It represented a man with harsh features, whose face emerged from the high collar of a
green satin coat, and a muslin cravat, with waving ends, tied loosely around the neck, in the
style of the early years of the Revolution. The old woman in the bed resembled the portrait.
She had the same bushy, commanding black eyebrows, the same aquiline nose, the same clearly
marked lines of will, resolution and energy. The portrait seemed to cast a reflection upon
her, as a father's face is reflected in his child's. But in hers the harshness of the features
was softened by a gleam of rough kindliness, by an indefinable flame of sturdy devotion and
masculine charity.

The light in the room was the light of an evening in early spring, about five o'clock, a light
as clear as crystal and as white as silver, the cold, chaste, soft light, which fades away
in the flush of the sunset passing into twilight. The sky was filled with that light of a new
life, adorably melancholy, like the still naked earth, and so replete with pathos that it moves
happy souls to tears.

"Well, well! my silly Germinie, weeping?" said the old woman, a moment later, withdrawing her
hands which were moist with her maid's kisses.

"Oh! my dear, kind mademoiselle, I would like to weep like this all the time! it's so good!
it brings my poor mother back before my eyes--and everything!--if you only knew!"

"Go on, go on," said her mistress, closing her eyes to listen, "tell me about it."

"Oh! my poor mother!" The maid paused a moment. Then, with the flood of words that gushes forth
with tears of joy, she continued, as if, in the emotion and outpouring of her happiness, her
whole childhood flowed back into her heart! "Poor woman! I can see her now the last time she
went out to take me to mass, one 21st of January, I remember. In those days they read from
the king's Testament. Ah! she suffered enough on my account, did mamma! She was forty-two years
old, when I was born----papa made her cry a good deal! There were three of us before and there
wasn't any too much bread in the house. And then he was proud as anything. If we'd had only
a handful of peas in the house he would never have gone to the curé for help. Ah! we didn't
eat bacon every day at our house. Never mind; for all that mamma loved me a little more and
she always found a little fat or cheese in some corner to put on my bread. I wasn't five when
she died. That was a bad thing for us all. I had a tall brother, who was white as a sheet,
with a yellow beard--and good! you have no idea. Everybody loved him. They gave him all sorts
of names. Some called him Boda--why, I don't know. Others called him Jesus Christ. Ah! he was
a worker, he was! It didn't make any difference to him that his health was good for nothing;
at daybreak he was always at his loom--for we were weavers, you must know--and he never put
his shuttle down till night. And honest, too, if you knew! People came from all about to bring
him their yarn, and without weighing it, too. He was a great friend of the schoolmaster, and
he used to write the mottoes for the carnival. My father, he was a different sort: he'd work
for a moment, or an hour, you know, and then he'd go off into the fields--and when he came
home he'd beat us, and beat us hard. He was like a madman; they said it was because he was
consumptive. It was lucky my brother was there: he used to prevent my second sister from pulling
my hair and hurting me, because she was jealous. He always took me by the hand to go and see
them play skittles. In fact, he supported the family all alone. For my first communion he had
the bells rung! Ah! he did a heap of work so that I should be like the others, in a little
white dress with flounces and a little bag in my hand, such as they used to carry in those
days. I didn't have any cap: I remember making myself a pretty little wreath of ribbons and
the white pith you pull off when you strip reeds; there was lots of it in the places where
we used to put the hemp to soak. That was one of my great days--that and the drawing lots for
the pigs at Christmas--and the days when I went to help them tie up the vines; that was in
June, you know. We had a little vineyard near Saint Hilaire. There was one very hard year in
those days--do you remember it, mademoiselle?--the long frost of 1828 that ruined everything.
It extended as far as Dijon and farther, too--people had to make bread from bran. My brother
nearly killed himself with work. Father, who was always out of doors tramping about the fields,
sometimes brought home a few mushrooms. It was pretty bad, all the same; we were hungry oftener
than anything else. When I was out in the fields myself, I'd look around to see if anyone could
see me, and then I'd crawl along softly on my knees, and when I was under a cow, I'd take off
one of my sabots and begin to milk her. Bless me! I came near being caught at it! My oldest
sister was out at service with the Mayor of Lenclos, and she sent home her wages--twenty-four
francs--it was always as much as that. The second worked at dressmaking in bourgeois families;
but they didn't pay the prices then that they do to-day; she worked from six in the morning
till dark for eight sous. Out of that she wanted to put some by for a dress for the fête on
Saint-Remi's day.--Ah! that's the way it is with us: there are many who live on two potatoes
a day for six months so as to have a new dress for that day. Bad luck fell on us on all sides.
My father died. We had to sell a small field, and a bit of a vineyard that yielded a cask of
wine every year. The notaries don't work for nothing. When my brother was sick there was nothing
to give him to drink but lees that we'd been putting water to for a year. And there wasn't
any change of linen for him; all the sheets in the wardrobe, which had a golden cross on top
of it in mother's time, had gone--and the cross too. More than that, before he was sick this
time, my brother goes off to the fête at Clefmont. He hears someone say that my sister had
gone wrong with the mayor she worked for; he falls on the men who said it, but he wasn't very
strong. They were, though, and they threw him down, and when he was down, they kicked him with
their wooden shoes, in the pit of the stomach. He was brought home to us for dead. The doctor
put him on his feet again, though, and told us he was cured. But he could just drag himself
along. I could see that he was going when he kissed me. When he was dead, poor dear boy, Cadet
Ballard had to use all his strength to take me away from the body. The whole village, mayor
and all, went to his funeral. As my sister couldn't keep her place with the mayor on account
of the things he said to her, and had gone to Paris to find a place, my other sister went after
her. I was left all alone. One of my mother's cousins then took me with her to Damblin; but
I was all upset there; I cried all night long, and whenever I could run away I always went
back to our house. Just to see the old vine at our door, from the end of the street, did me
good! it put strength into my legs. The good people who had bought the house would keep me
till someone came for me! they were always sure to find me there. At last they wrote to my
sister in Paris that, if she didn't send for me to come and live with her, I wasn't likely
to live long. It's a fact that I was just like wax. They put me in charge of the driver of
a small wagon that went from Langres to Paris every month, and that's how I came to Paris.
I was fourteen years old, then. I remember that I went to bed all dressed all the way, because
they made me sleep in the common room. When I arrived I was covered with lice."

II

The old woman said nothing: she was comparing her own life with her servant's.

              *       *       *       *       *

Mademoiselle de Varandeuil was born in 1782. She first saw the light in a mansion on Rue Royale
and Mesdames de France were her sponsors in baptism. Her father was a close friend of the Comte
d'Artois, in whose household he held an important post. He joined in all his hunting-parties,
and was one of the few familiar spirits, in whose presence, at the mass preceding the hunt,
he who was one day to be King Charles X. used to hurry the officiating priest by saying in
an undertone: "Psit! psit! curé, swallow your Good Lord quickly!"

Monsieur de Varandeuil had made one of those marriages which were customary enough in his day:
he had espoused a sort of actress, a singer, who, although she had no great talent, had made
a success at the Concert Spirituel, beside Madame Todi, Madame Ponteuil and Madame Saint-Huberty.
The little girl born of this marriage in 1782 was sickly and delicate, ugly of feature, with
a nose even then large enough to be absurd, her father's nose in a face as thin as a man's
wrist. She had nothing of what her parents' vanity would have liked her to have. After making
a fiasco on the piano at the age of five, at a concert given by her mother in her salon, she
was relegated to the society of the servants. Except for a moment in the morning, she never
went near her mother, who always made her kiss her under the chin, so that she might not disturb
her rouge. When the Revolution arrived, Monsieur de Varandeuil, thanks to the Comte d'Artois'
patronage, was disburser of pensions. Madame de Varandeuil was traveling in Italy, whither
she had ordered her physician to send her on the pretext of ill health, leaving her daughter
and an infant son in her husband's charge. The absorbing anxiety of the times, the tempests
threatening wealth and the families that handled wealth--Monsieur de Varandeuil's brother was
a Farmer-General--left that very selfish and unloving father but little leisure to attend to
the wants of his children. Thereupon, he began to be somewhat embarrassed pecuniarily. He left
Rue Royale and took up his abode at the Hôtel du Petit-Charolais, belonging to his mother,
who allowed him to install himself there. Events moved rapidly; one evening, in the early days
of the guillotine, as he was walking along Rue Saint-Antoine, he heard a hawker in front of
him, crying the journal: Aux Voleurs! Aux Voleurs! According to the usual custom of those days,
he gave a list of the articles contained in the number he had for sale: Monsieur de Varandeuil
heard his own name mingled with oaths and obscenity. He bought the paper and read therein a
revolutionary denunciation of himself.

Some time after, his brother was arrested and detained at Hôtel Talaru with the other Farmers-General.
His mother, in a paroxysm of terror, had foolishly sold the Hôtel du Petit-Charolais, where
he was living, for the value of the mirrors: she was paid in assignats, and died of despair
over the constant depreciation of the paper. Luckily Monsieur de Varandeuil obtained from the
purchasers, who could find no tenants, leave to occupy the rooms formerly used by the stableboys.
He took refuge there, among the outbuildings of the mansion, stripped himself of his name and
posted at the door, as he was ordered to do, his family name of Roulot, under which he buried
the De Varandeuil and the former courtier of the Comte d'Artois. He lived there alone, buried,
forgotten, hiding his head, never going out, cowering in his hole, without servants, waited
upon by his daughter, to whom he left everything. The Terror was to them a period of shuddering
suspense, the breathless excitement of impending death. Every evening, the little girl went
and listened at a grated window to the day's crop of condemnations, the List of Prize Winners
in the Lottery of Saint Guillotine. She answered every knock at the door, thinking that they
had come to take her father to the Place de la Révolution, whither her uncle had already been
taken. The moment came when money, the money that was so scarce, no longer procured bread.
It was necessary to go and get it, almost by force, at the doors of the bakeries; it was necessary
to earn it by standing for hours in the cold, biting night air, in the crushing pressure of
crowds of people; to stand in line from three o'clock in the morning. The father did not care
to venture into that mass of humanity. He was afraid of being recognized, of compromising himself
by one of those outbursts to which his impetuous nature would have given vent, no matter where
he might be. Then, too, he recoiled from the fatigue and severity of the task. The little boy
was still too small; he would have been crushed; so the duty of obtaining bread for three mouths
each day fell to the daughter. She obtained it. With her little thin body, fairly lost in her
father's knitted jacket, a cotton cap pulled down over her eyes, her limbs all huddled together
to retain a little warmth, she would wait, shivering, her eyes aching with cold, amid the pushing
and buffeting, until the baker's wife on Rue des Francs-Bourgeois placed in her hands a loaf
which her little fingers, stiff with cold, could hardly hold. At last, this poor little creature,
who returned day after day, with her pinched face and her emaciated, trembling body, moved
the baker's wife to pity. With the kindness of heart of a woman of the people, she would send
the coveted loaf to the little one by her boy as soon as she appeared in the long line. But
one day, just as she put out her hand to take it, a woman, whose jealousy was aroused by this
mark of favor and preference, dealt the child a kick with her wooden shoe which kept her in
bed almost a month. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil bore the marks of the blow all her life.

During that month, the whole family would have died of starvation, had it not been for a supply
of rice, which one of their acquaintances, the Comtesse d'Auteuil, had had the forethought
to lay aside, and which she consented to share with the father and the two children.

Thus, Monsieur de Varandeuil escaped the Revolutionary Tribunal by burying himself in obscurity.
He escaped it also by reason of the fact that the accounts of his administration of his office
were still unsettled, as he had had the good fortune to procure the postponement of the settlement
from month to month. Then, too, he kept suspicion at bay by his personal animosity toward some
great personages at court, and by the hatred of the queen which many retainers of the king's
brothers had conceived. Whenever he had occasion to speak of that wretched woman, he used violent,
bitter, insulting words, uttered in such a passionate, sincere tone that they almost made him
appear as an enemy of the royal family; so that those to whom he was simply Citizen Roulot
looked upon him as a good patriot, and those who knew his former name almost excused him for
having been what he had been: a noble, the friend of a prince of the blood, and a place holder.

The Republic had reached the epoch of patriotic suppers, those repasts of a whole street in
the street; Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, in her confused, terrified reminiscences of those days,
could still see the tables on Rue Pavée, with their legs in the streams of the blood of September
flowing from La Force! It was at one of these suppers that Monsieur de Varandeuil conceived
a scheme that completely assured his immunity. He informed two of his neighbors at table, devoted
patriots both, one of whom was on intimate terms with Chaumette, that he was in great embarrassment
because his daughter had been privately baptized only, so that she had no civil status, and
said that he would be very happy if Chaumette would have her entered on the registers of the
municipality and honor her with a name selected by him from the Republican calendar of Greece
or Rome. Chaumette at once arranged a meeting with this father, who had reached so high a level,
as they said in those days. During the interview Mademoiselle de Varandeuil was taken into
a closet where she found two women who were instructed to satisfy themselves as to her sex,
and she showed them her breast. They then escorted her to the great Salle des Declarations,
and there, after a metaphorical allocution, Chaumette baptized her Sempronie; a name which
habit was destined to fasten upon Mademoiselle de Varandeuil and which she never abandoned.

Somewhat protected and reassured by that episode, the family passed through the terrible days
preceding the fall of Robespierre. At last came the ninth Thermidor and deliverance. But poverty
was none the less a pressing fact in the Varandeuil household. They had not lived through the
bitter days of the Revolution, they were not to live through the wretched days of the Directory
without unhoped-for succor, money sent by Providence by the hand of Folly. The father and the
two children could hardly have existed without the income from four shares in the Vaudeville,
an investment which Monsieur de Varandeuil was happily inspired to make in 1791, and which
proved to be the best of all possible investments in those years of death, when people felt
the need of forgetting death every evening--in those days of supreme agony, when everyone wished
to laugh his last laugh at the latest song. Soon these shares, added to the amount of some
outstanding claims that were paid, provided the family with something more than bread. They
thereupon left the eaves of the Hôtel du Petit-Charolais and took a small suite in the Marais,
on Rue du Chaume.

No change took place, however, in the habits of the household. The daughter continued to wait
upon her father and brother. Monsieur de Varandeuil had gradually become accustomed to see
in her only the woman indicated by her costume and by the work that she did. The father's eyes
did not care to recognize a daughter in that servant's garb and in her performance of menial
occupations. She was no longer a person with his blood in her veins or who had the honor to
belong to him: she was a servant; and his selfishness confirmed him so fully in that idea and
in his harsh treatment of her, he found that filial, affectionate, respectful service,--which
cost nothing at all, by the way,--so convenient, that it cost him a bitter pang to give it
up later, when a little more money mended the family fortunes: battles had to be fought to
induce him to take a maid to fill his child's place and to relieve the girl from the most humiliating
domestic labor.

They were without information concerning Madame de Varandeuil, who had refused to join her
husband at Paris during the early years of the Revolution; at last they learned that she had
married again in Germany, producing, as a certificate of her husband's death, the death certificate
of his guillotined brother, the baptismal name having been changed. The girl grew up, therefore,
abandoned, without affection, with no mother except a woman dead to her family, whom her father
taught her to despise. Her childhood was passed in constant anxiety, in the privations that
wear life away, in the fatigue resulting from labor that exhausted the strength of a sickly
child, in an expectation of death that became, at last, an impatient longing to die: there
had been hours when that girl of thirteen was tempted to do as many women did in those days--to
open the door and rush into the street, crying: Vive le roi! in order to end it all. Her girlhood
was a continuation of her childhood with less tragic motives of weariness. She had to submit
to the ill humor, the exactions, the bitter moods, the tempestuous outbreaks of her father,
which had been hitherto somewhat curbed and restrained by the great tempest of the time. She
was still doomed to undergo the fatigues and humiliations of a servant. She remained alone
with her father, kept down and humbled, shut out from his arms and his kisses, her heart heavy
with grief because she longed to love and had nothing to love. She was beginning to suffer
from the cold void that is formed about a woman by an unattractive, unfascinating girlhood,
by a girlhood devoid of beauty and sympathetic charm. She could see that she aroused a sort
of compassion with her long nose, her yellow complexion, her angular figure, her thin body.
She felt that she was ugly, and that her ugliness was made repulsive by her miserable costumes,
her dismal, woolen dresses which she made herself, her father paying for the material only
after much grumbling: she could not induce him to make her a small allowance for her toilet
until she was thirty-five.

How sad and bitter and lonely for her was her life with that morose, sour old man, who was
always scolding and complaining at home, affable only in society, and who left her every evening
to go to the great houses that were reopened under the Directory and at the beginning of the
Empire! Only at very long intervals did he take her out, and when he did, it was always to
that everlasting Vaudeville, where he had boxes. Even on those rare occasions, his daughter
was terrified. She trembled all the time that she was with him; she was afraid of his violent
disposition, of the tone of the old régime that his outbreaks of wrath had retained, of the
facility with which he would raise his cane at an insolent remark from the canaille. On almost
every occasion there were scenes with the manager, wordy disputes with people in the pit, and
threats of personal violence to which she put an end by lowering the curtain of the box. The
same thing was kept up in the street, even in the cab, with the driver, who would refuse to
carry them at Monsieur de Varandeuil's price and would keep them waiting one hour, two hours
without moving; sometimes would unharness his horse in his wrath and leave him in the vehicle
with his daughter who would vainly implore him to submit and pay the price demanded.

Considering that these diversions should suffice for Sempronie, and having, moreover, a jealous
desire to have her all to himself and always under his hand, Monsieur de Varandeuil allowed
her to form no intimacies with anybody. He did not take her into society; he did not take her
to the houses of their kinsfolk who returned after the emigration, except on days of formal
receptions or family gatherings. He kept her closely confined to the house: not until she was
forty did he consider that she was old enough to be allowed to go out alone. Thus, the girl
had no friendship, no connection of any sort to lean upon; indeed, she no longer had her younger
brother with her, as he had gone to the United States and enlisted in the American navy.

She was forbidden by her father to marry, he did not admit that she would allow herself even
to think of marrying and deserting him; all the suitors who might have come forward he fought
and rejected in advance, in order not to leave his daughter the courage to speak to him on
the subject, if the occasion should ever arise.

Meanwhile our victories were stripping Italy of her treasures. The masterpieces of Rome, Florence
and Venice were hurrying to Paris. Italian art was at a premium. Collectors no longer took
pride in any paintings but those of the Italian school. Monsieur de Varandeuil saw an opening
for a fortune in this change of taste. He, also, had fallen a victim to the artistic dilettantism
which was one of the refined passions of the nobility before the Revolution. He had lived in
the society of artists and collectors; he admired pictures. It occurred to him to collect a
gallery of Italian works and then to sell them. Paris was still overrun with the objects of
art sold and scattered under the Terror. Monsieur de Varandeuil began to walk back and forth
through the streets--they were the markets for large canvases in those days,--and at every
step he made a discovery; every day he purchased something. Soon the small apartment was crowded
with old, black paintings, so large for the most part that the walls would not hold them with
their frames, with the result that there was no room for the furniture. These were christened
Raphael, Vinci, or Andrea del Sarto; there were none but chefs d'oeuvre, and the father would
keep his daughter standing in front of them hours at a time, forcing his admiration upon her,
wearying her with his ecstatic flights. He would ascend from epithet to epithet, would work
himself into a state of intoxication, of delirium, and would end by thinking that he was negotiating
with an imaginary purchaser, would dispute with him over the price of a masterpiece, and would
cry out: "A hundred thousand francs for my Rosso! yes, monsieur, a hundred thousand francs!"
His daughter, dismayed by the large amount of money that those great, ugly things, in which
there were so many nude men, deducted from the housekeeping supply, ventured upon remonstrance
and tried to check such ruinous extravagance. Monsieur de Varandeuil lost his temper, waxed
wroth like a man who was ashamed to find one of his blood so deficient in taste, and told her
that that was her fortune and that she would see later if he was an old fool. At last she induced
him to realize. The sale took place; it was a failure, one of the most complete shipwrecks
of illusions that the glazed hall of the Hôtel Bullion has ever seen. Stung to the quick, furious
with rage at this blow, which not only involved pecuniary loss and a serious inroad upon his
little fortune, but was also a direct denial of his claims to connoisseurship, a slap at his
knowledge of art delivered upon the cheek of his Raphaels, Monsieur de Varandeuil informed
his daughter that they were too poor to remain in Paris and that they must go into the provinces
to live. Having been cradled and reared in an epoch little adapted to inspire a love of country
life in women, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil tried vainly to combat her father's resolution: she
was obliged to go with him wherever he chose to go, and, by leaving Paris, to lose the society
and friendship of two young kinswomen, to whom, in their too infrequent interviews, she had
partly given her confidence, and whose hearts she had felt reaching out to her as to an older
sister.

Monsieur de Varandeuil hired a small house at L'Isle-Adam. There he was near familiar scenes,
in the atmosphere of what was formerly a little court, close at hand to two or three châteaux,
whose owners he knew, and which were beginning to throw open their doors once more. Then, too,
since the Revolution a little community of well-to-do bourgeois, rich shopkeepers, had settled
upon this territory which once belonged to the Contis. The name of Monsieur de Varandeuil sounded
very grand in the ears of all those good people. They bowed very low to him, they contended
for the honor of entertaining him, they listened respectfully, almost devoutly, to the stories
he told of society as it was. And thus, flattered, caressed, honored as a relic of Versailles,
he had the place of honor and the prestige of a lord among them. When he dined with Madame
Mutel, a former baker, who had forty thousand francs a year, the hostess left the table, silk
dress and all, to go and fry the oyster plants herself: Monsieur de Varandeuil did not like
them except as she cooked them. But Monsieur de Varandeuil's decision to go into retirement
at L'Isle-Adam was mainly due, not to the pleasant surroundings there, but to a project that
he had formed. He had gone thither to obtain leisure for a monumental work. That which he had
been unable to do for the honor and glory of Italian art by his collection, he proposed to
do by his pen. He had learned a little Italian with his wife; he took it into his head to present
Vasari's Lives of the Painters to the French public, to translate it with the assistance of
his daughter, who, when she was very small, had heard her mother's maid speak Italian and had
retained a few words. He plunged the girl into Vasari, he locked up her time and her thoughts
in grammars, dictionaries, commentaries, all the works of all the scholiasts of Italian art,
kept her bending double over the ungrateful toil, the ennui and labor of translating Italian
words, groping in the darkness of her imperfect knowledge. The whole burden of the book fell
upon her; when he had laid out her task, he would leave her tête-à-tête with the volumes bound
in white vellum, to go and ramble about the neighborhood, paying visits, gambling at some château
or dining among the bourgeois of his acquaintance, to whom he would complain pathetically of
the laborious effort that the vast undertaking of his translation entailed upon him. He would
return home, listen to the reading of the translation made during the day, make comments and
critical remarks, and upset a sentence to give it a different meaning, which his daughter would
eliminate again when he had gone; then he would resume his walks and jaunts, like a man who
has well earned his leisure, walking very erect, with his hat under his arm and dainty pumps
on his feet, enjoying himself, the sky and the trees and Rousseau's God, gentle to all nature
and loving to the plants. From time to time fits of impatience, common to children and old
men, would overtake him; he would demand a certain number of pages for the next day, and would
compel his daughter to sit up half the night.

Two or three years passed in this labor, in which Sempronie's eyes were ruined at last. She
lived entombed in her father's Vasari, more entirely alone than ever, holding aloof through
innate, haughty repugnance from the bourgeois ladies of L'Isle-Adam and their manners à la
Madame Angot, and too poorly clad to visit at the châteaux. For her, there was no pleasure,
no diversion, which was not made wretched and poisoned by her father's eccentricities and fretful
humor. He tore up the flowers that she planted secretly in the garden. He would have nothing
there but vegetables and he cultivated them himself, putting forth grand utilitarian theories,
arguments which might have induced the Convention to convert the Tuileries into a potato field.
Her only enjoyment was when her father, at very long intervals, allowed her to entertain one
of her two young friends for a week--a week which would have been seven days of paradise to
Sempronie, had not her father embittered its joys, its diversions, its fêtes, with his always
threatening outbreaks, his ill-humor always armed and alert, and his constant fault-finding
about trifles--a bottle of eau de Cologne that Sempronie asked for to place in her friend's
room, a dish for her dinner, or a place to which she wished to take her.

At L'Isle-Adam Monsieur de Varandeuil had hired a servant, who almost immediately became his
mistress. A child was born of this connection, and the father, in his cynical indifference,
was shameless enough to have it brought up under his daughter's eyes. As the years rolled on
the woman acquired a firm foothold in the house. She ended by ruling the household, father
and daughter alike. The day came when Monsieur de Varandeuil chose to have her sit at his table
and be served by Sempronie. That was too much. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil rebelled under the
insult, and drew herself up to the full height of her indignation. Secretly, silently, in misery
and isolation, harshly treated by the people and the things about her, the girl had built up
a resolute, straightforward character; tears had tempered instead of softening it. Beneath
filial docility and humility, beneath passive obedience, beneath apparent gentleness of disposition,
she concealed a character of iron, a man's strength of will, one of those hearts which nothing
bends and which never bend themselves. When her father demanded that she lower herself to that
extent, she reminded him that she was his daughter, she reviewed her whole life, cast, in a
flood of words, the shame and the reproach of it in his face, and concluded by informing him
that if that woman did not leave the house that very evening, she would leave it, and that
she should have no difficulty in living, thank God! wherever she might go, with the simple
tastes he had forced upon her. The father, thunderstruck and bewildered by this revolt, yielded
and dismissed the servant; but he retained a dastardly sort of rancor against his daughter
on account of the sacrifice she had extorted from him. His spleen betrayed itself in sharp,
aggressive words, ironical thanks and bitter smiles. Sempronie's only revenge was to attend
to his wants more thoroughly, more gently, more patiently than ever. Her devotion was destined
to be subjected to one final test; the old man had a stroke of apoplexy which left him with
one whole side of his body stiff and dead, lame in one leg, and asleep so far as his intelligence
was concerned, although keenly conscious of his misfortune and of his dependence upon his daughter.
Thereupon, all the evil that lay dormant in the depths of his nature was aroused and let loose.
His selfishness amounted to ferocity. Under the torment of his suffering and his weakness,
he became a sort of malevolent madman. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil devoted her days and her
nights to the invalid, who seemed to hate her for her attentions, to be humiliated by her care
as if it implied generosity and forgiveness, to suffer torments at seeing always by his side,
indefatigable and kindly, that image of duty. But what a life it was! She had to contend against
the miserable man's incurable ennui, to be always ready to bear him company, to lead him about
and support him all day long. She must play cards with him when he was at home, and not let
him win or lose too much. She must combat his wishes, his gormandizing tendencies, take dishes
away from him, and, in connection with everything that he wanted, endure complaints, reproaches,
insults, tears, mad despair, and the outbursts of childish anger in which helpless old men
indulge. And this lasted ten years! ten years, during which Mademoiselle de Varandeuil had
no other recreation, no other consolation than to pour out all the tenderness and warmth of
a maternal affection upon one of her two young friends, recently married,--her chick, as she
called her. It was Mademoiselle de Varandeuil's delight to go and pass a short time every fortnight
in that happy household. She would kiss the pretty child, already in its cradle and asleep
for the night when she arrived; she would dine at racing speed; at dessert she would send for
a carriage and would hasten away like a tardy schoolboy. But in the last years of her father's
life she could not even obtain permission to dine out: the old man would no longer sanction
such a long absence and kept her almost constantly beside him, repeating again and again that
he was well aware that it was not amusing to take care of an infirm old man like himself, but
that she would soon be rid of him. He died in 1818, and, before his death, could find no words
but these for her who had been his daughter nearly forty years: "I know that you never loved me!"

Two years before her father's death, Sempronie's brother had returned from America. He brought
with him a colored woman who had nursed him through the yellow fever, and two girls, already
grown up, whom he had had by the woman before marrying her. Although she was imbued with the
ideas of the old régime as to the blacks, and although she looked upon that ignorant creature,
with her negro jargon, her grin like a wild beast's and her skin that left grease stains upon
her clothing, as no better than a monkey, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil combated her father's
horror and unwillingness to receive his daughter-in-law; and she it was who induced him, in
the last days of his life, to allow her brother to present his wife to him. When her father
was dead she reflected that her brother's household was all that remained of the family.

Monsieur de Varandeuil, to whom the Comte d'Artois had caused the arrears of salary of his
office to be paid at the return of the Bourbons, left about ten thousand francs a year to his
children. The brother had, before that inheritance, only a pension of fifteen hundred francs
from the United States. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil considered that five or six thousand francs
a year would hardly suffice for the comfortable support of that family, in which there were
two children, and it at once occurred to her to add to it her share in the inheritance. She
suggested this contribution in the most natural and simple way imaginable. Her brother accepted
it, and she went with him to live in a pretty little apartment at the upper end of Rue de Clichy,
on the fourth floor of one of the first houses built in that neighborhood, then hardly known,
where the fresh country air blew briskly through the framework of the white buildings. She
continued there her modest life, her humble manner of dressing, her economical habits, content
with the least desirable room in the suite, and spending upon herself no more than eighteen
hundred to two thousand francs a year. But, soon, a brooding jealousy, slowly gathering strength,
took possession of the mulattress. She took offence at the fraternal affection which seemed
to be taking her husband from her arms. She suffered because of the communion of speech and
thought and reminiscences between them; she suffered because of the conversations in which
she could take no part, because of what she heard in their voices, but could not understand.
The consciousness of her inferiority kindled in her heart the fires of wrath and hatred that
burn fiercely in the tropics. She had recourse to her children for her revenge; she urged them
on, excited them, aroused their evil passions against her sister-in-law. She encouraged them
to laugh at her, to make sport of her. She applauded the manifestations of the mischievous
intelligence characteristic of children, in whom observation begins with naughtiness. Once
she had let them loose upon their aunt, she allowed them to laugh at all her absurdities, her
figure, her nose, her dresses, whose meanness, nevertheless, provided their own elegant attire.
Thus incited and upheld, the little ones soon arrived at insolence. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil
had the quick temper that accompanies kindness of heart. With her the hand, as well as the
heart, had a part in the first impulse. And then she shared the prevalent opinion of her time
as to the proper way of bringing up children. She endured two or three impertinent sallies
without a word; but at the fourth she seized the mocking child, took down her skirts, and administered
to her, notwithstanding her twelve years, the soundest whipping she had ever received. The
mulattress made a great outcry and told her sister-in-law, that she had always detested her
children and that she wanted to kill them. The brother interposed between the two women and
succeeded in reconciling them after a fashion. But new scenes took place, when the little ones,
inflamed against the woman who made their mother weep, assailed their aunt with the refined
tortures of misbehaved children, mingled with the fiendish cruelty of little savages. After
several patched-up truces it became necessary to part. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil decided to
leave her brother, for she saw how unhappy he was amid this daily wrenching of his dearest
affections. She left him to his wife and his children. This separation was one of the great
sorrows of her life. She who was so strong against emotion and so self-contained, and who seemed
to take pride in suffering, as it were, almost broke down when she had to leave the apartment,
where she had dreamed of enjoying a little happiness in her corner, looking on at the happiness
of others: her last tears mounted to her eyes.

She did not go too far away, so that she might be at hand to nurse her brother if he were ill,
and to see him and meet him sometimes. But there was a great void in her heart and in her life.
She had begun to visit her kinsfolk since her father's death: she drew nearer to them; she
allowed the relatives whom the Restoration had placed in a lofty and powerful position to come
to her, and sought out those whom the new order of things left in obscurity and poverty. But
she returned to her dear chick first of all, and to another distant cousin, also married, who
had become the chick's sister-in-law. Her relations with her kinsfolk soon assumed remarkable
regularity. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil never went into society, to an evening party, or to
the play. It required Mademoiselle Rachel's brilliant success to persuade her to step inside
a theatre; she ventured there but twice. She never accepted an invitation to a large dinner-party.
But there were two or three houses where, as at the chick's, she would invite herself to dine,
unexpectedly, when there were no guests. "My love," she would say without ceremony, "are you
and your husband doing nothing this evening? Then I will stay and eat some of your ragoût."
At eight o'clock regularly she rose to go, and when the husband took his hat to escort her
home, she would knock it out of his hands with a: "Nonsense! an old nanny-goat like me! Why,
I frighten men in the street!" And then ten days or a fortnight would pass, during which they
would not see her. But if anything went wrong, if there was a death or sickness in the house,
Mademoiselle de Varandeuil always heard of it at once, no one knew how; she would come, in
spite of everything--the weather or the hour--would give a loud ring at the bell in her own
way--they finally called it cousin's ring--and a moment later, relieved of her umbrella, which
never left her, and of her pattens, her hat tossed upon a chair, she was at the service of
those who needed her. She listened, talked, restored their courage with an indescribable martial
accent, with language as energetic as a soldier might use to console a wounded comrade, and
stimulating as a cordial. If it was a child that was out of sorts, she would go straight to
the bed, laugh at the little one, whose fear vanished at once, order the father and mother
about, run hither and thither, assume the management of everything, apply the leeches, arrange
the cataplasms, and bring back hope, joy and health at the double quick. In all branches of
the family the old maid appeared thus providentially, without warning, on days of sorrow, ennui
and suffering. She was never seen except when her hands were needed to heal, her devoted friendship
to console. She was, so to speak, an impersonal creature, because of her great heart; a woman
who did not belong to herself: God seemed to have made her only to give her to others. Her
everlasting black dress which she persisted in wearing, her worn, dyed shawl, her absurd hat,
her impoverished appearance, were, in her eyes, the means of being rich enough to help others
with her little fortune; she was extravagant in almsgiving, and her pockets were always filled
with gifts for the poor; not of money, for she feared the wineshop, but of four-pound loaves
which she bought for them at the baker's. And then, too, by dint of living in poverty, she
was able to give herself what was to her the greatest of all luxuries: the joy of her friends'
children whom she overwhelmed with New Year's and other gifts, with surprises and pleasures
of all sorts. For instance, suppose that one of them had been left by his mother, who was absent
from Paris, to pass a lovely summer Sunday at his boarding school, and the little rascal, out
of spite, had misbehaved so that he was not allowed to go out. How surprised he would be, as
the clock struck nine, to see his old cousin appear in the courtyard, just buttoning the last
button of her dress, she had come in such haste. And what a feeling of desolation at the sight!
"Cousin," he would say piteously, in one of those fits of passion in which at the same moment
you long to cry and to kill your tyrant, "I--I am kept in, and----" "Kept in? Oh! yes, kept
in! And do you suppose I've taken all this trouble----Is your schoolmaster poking fun at me?
Where is the puppy, that I may have a word with him? You go and dress yourself meanwhile. Off
with you!" And the child, not daring to hope that a woman so shabbily dressed would have the
power to raise the embargo, would suddenly feel a hand upon his arm, and the cousin would carry
him off, toss him into a cab, all bewildered and dumfounded with joy, and take him to the Bois
de Boulogne. She would let him ride a donkey all day long, urging the beast on with a broken
branch, and crying: "Get up!" And then, after a good dinner at Borne's, she would take him
back to school, and, under the porte-cochère, as she kissed him she would slip a big hundred-sou
piece into his hand.

Strange old maid. The bitter experiences of her whole existence, the struggle to live, the
never-ending physical suffering, the long-continued bodily and mental torture had, as it were,
cut her loose from life and placed her above it. Her education, the things she had seen, the
spectacle of what seemed the end of everything, the Revolution, had so formed her character
as to lead her to disdain human suffering. And this old woman, who had nothing left of life
save breath, had risen to a serene philosophy, to a virile, haughty, almost satirical stoicism.
Sometimes she would begin to declaim against a sorrow that seemed a little too keen; but, in
the midst of her tirade, she would suddenly hurl an angry, mocking word at herself, upon which
her face would at once become calm. She was cheerful with the cheerfulness of a deep, bubbling
spring, the cheerfulness of devoted hearts that have seen everything, of the old soldier or
the old hospital nurse. Kind-hearted to admiration she was, and yet something was lacking in
her kindness of heart: forgiveness. Hitherto, she had never succeeded in moving or bending
her character. A slight, an unkind action, a trifle, if it touched her heart, wounded her forever.
She forgot nothing. Time, death itself, did not disarm her memory.

Of religion, she had none. Born at a period when women did without it, she had grown to womanhood
at a time when there were no churches. Mass did not exist when she was a young maid. There
had been nothing to accustom her to the thought of God or to make her feel the need of Him,
and she had retained a sort of shrinking hatred for priests, which must have been connected
with some family secret of which she never spoke. Her faith, her strength, her piety, all consisted
in the pride of her conscience; she considered that if she retained her own esteem, she could
be sure of acting rightly and of never failing in her duty. She was thus singularly constituted
by the two epochs in which she had lived, a compound of the two, dipped in the opposing currents
of the old régime and the Revolution. After Louis XVI. failed to take horse on the Tenth of
August, she lost her regard for kings; but she detested the mob. She desired equality and she
held parvenus in horror. She was a republican and an aristocrat, combined scepticism with prejudice,
the horrors of '93, which she saw, with the vague and noble theories of humanity which surrounded
her cradle.

Her external qualities were altogether masculine. She had the sharp voice, the freedom of speech,
the unruly tongue of the old woman of the eighteenth century, heightened by an accent suggestive
of the common people, a mannish, highly colored style of elocution peculiar to herself, rising
above modesty in the choice of words and fearless in calling things baldly by their plain names.

Meanwhile, the years rolled on, sweeping away the Restoration and the monarchy of Louis-Philippe.
She saw all those whom she had loved go from her one by one, all her family take the road to
the cemetery. She was left quite alone, and she marveled and was grieved that death should
forget her, who would have offered so little resistance, for she was already leaning over the
grave and was obliged to force her heart down to the level of the little children brought to
her by the sons and daughters of the friends whom she had lost. Her brother was dead. Her dear
chick was no more. The chick's sister-in-law alone was left to her. But hers was a life that
hung trembling in the balance, ready to fly away. Crushed by the death of a child for whom
she had waited for years, the poor woman was dying of consumption. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil
was in her bedroom every day, from noon until six o'clock, for four years. She lived by her
side all that time, in the close atmosphere and the odor of constant fumigations. She did not
allow herself to be kept away for one hour by her own gout and rheumatism, but gave her time
and her life to the peaceful last hours of that dying woman, whose eyes were fixed upon heaven,
where her dead children awaited her. And when, in the cemetery, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil
had turned aside the shroud to kiss the dead face for the last time, it seemed to her as if
there were no one near to her, as if she were all alone upon the earth.

Thenceforth, yielding to the infirmities which she had no further reason to shake off, she
began to live the narrow, confined life of old people who wear out their carpet in one spot
only--never leaving her room, reading but little because it tired her eyes, and passing most
of her time buried in her easy-chair, reviewing the past and living it over again. She would
sit in the same position for days, her eyes wide open and dreaming, her thoughts far from herself,
far from the room in which she sat, journeying whither her memories led her, to distant faces,
dearly loved, pallid faces, to vanished regions--lost in a profound lethargy which Germinie
was careful not to disturb, saying to herself: "Madame is in her meditations----"

One day in every week, however, she went abroad. Indeed it was with that weekly excursion in
view, in order to be nearer the spot to which she wished to go on that one day, that she left
her apartments on Rue Taitbout and took up her abode on Rue de Laval. One day in every week,
deterred by nothing, not even by illness, she repaired to the Montmartre Cemetery, where her
father and her brother rested, and the women whose loss she regretted, all those whose sufferings
had come to an end before hers. For the dead and for Death she displayed a veneration almost
equal to that of the ancients. To her, the grave was sacred, and a dear friend. She loved to
visit the land of hope and deliverance where her dear ones were sleeping, there to await death
and to be ready with her body. On that day, she would start early in the morning, leaning on
the arm of her maid, who carried a folding-stool. As she drew near the cemetery, she would
enter the shop of a dealer in wreaths, who had known her for many years, and who, in winter,
loaned her a foot-warmer. There she would rest a few moments; then, loading Germinie down with
wreaths of immortelles, she would pass through the cemetery gate, take the path to the left
of the cedar at the entrance, and make her pilgrimage slowly from tomb to tomb. She would throw
away the withered flowers, sweep up the dead leaves, tie the wreaths together, and, sitting
down upon her folding-chair, would gaze and dream, and absent-mindedly remove a bit of moss
from the flat stone with the end of her umbrella. Then she would rise, turn as if to say au
revoir to the tomb she was leaving, walk away, stop once more, and talk in an undertone, as
she had done before, with that part of her that was sleeping under the stone; and having thus
paid a visit to all the dead who lived in her affections, she would return home slowly and
reverentially, enveloping herself in silence as if she were afraid to speak.

III

In the course of her reverie, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil had closed her eyes.

The maid's story ceased, and the remainder of the history of her life, which was upon her lips
that evening, was once more buried in her heart.

The conclusion of her story was as follows:

When little Germinie Lacerteux arrived in Paris, being then less than fifteen years old, her
sister, desirous to have her begin to earn her living at once, and to help to put bread in
her hand, obtained a place for her in a small café on the boulevard, where she performed the
double duties of lady's maid to the mistress of the café and assistant to the waiters in carrying
on the main business of the establishment. The child, just from her village and dropped suddenly
in that place, was completely bewildered and terrified by her surroundings and her duties.
She had the first instinctive feeling of wounded modesty and, foreshadowing the woman she was
destined to become, she shuddered at the perpetual contact with the other sex, working, eating,
passing her whole time with men; and whenever she had an opportunity to go out, and went to
her sisters, there were tearful, despairing scenes, when, without actually complaining of anything,
she manifested a sort of dread to return, saying that she did not want to stay there, that
they were not satisfied with her, that she preferred to return to them. They would reply that
it had already cost them enough to bring her to Paris, that it was a silly whim on her part
and that she was very well off where she was, and they would send her back to the café in tears.
She dared not tell all that she suffered in the company of the waiters in the café, insolent,
boasting, cynical fellows, fed on the remains of debauches, tainted with all the vices to which
they ministered, and corrupt to the core with putrefying odds and ends of obscenity. At every
turn, she had to submit to the dastardly jests, the cruel mystifications, the malicious tricks
of these scoundrels, who were only too happy to make a little martyr of the poor unsophisticated
child, ignorant of everything, with the crushed and sickly air, timid and sullen, thin and
pale, and pitiably clad in her wretched, countrified gowns. Bewildered, overwhelmed, so to
speak, by this hourly torture, she became their drudge. They made sport of her ignorance, they
deceived her and abused her credulity by absurd fables, they overburdened her with fatiguing
tasks, they assailed her with incessant, pitiless ridicule, which well-nigh drove her benumbed
intellect to imbecility. In addition, they made her blush at the things they said to her, which
made her feel ashamed, although she did not understand them. They soiled the artlessness of
her fourteen years with filthy veiled allusions. And they found amusement in putting the eyes
of her childish curiosity to the keyholes of the private supper-rooms.

The little one longed to confide in her sisters, but she dared not. When, with nourishing food,
her body took on a little flesh, her cheeks a little color and she began to have something
of the aspect of a woman, they took great liberties with her and grew bolder. There were attempts
at familiarity, significant gestures, advances, which she eluded, and from which she escaped
unscathed, but which assailed her purity by breathing upon her innocence. Roughly treated,
scolded, reviled by the master of the establishment, who was accustomed to abuse his maidservants
and who bore her a grudge because she was not old enough or of the right sort for a mistress,
she found no support, no touch of humanity, except in his wife. She began to love that woman
with a sort of animal devotion, and to obey her with the docility of a dog. She did all her
errands without thought or reflection. She carried her letters to her lovers and was very clever
about delivering them. She became very active and agile and ingenuously sly in passing in and
out, evading the awakened suspicions of the husband; and without any clear idea of what she
was doing or of what she was concealing, she felt a mischievous delight, such as children and
monkeys feel, in telling herself vaguely that she was causing some little suffering to that
man and that house, which caused her so much. There was among her comrades an old waiter, named
Joseph, who defended her, warned her of the cruel plots concocted against her, and, when she
was present, put a stop to conversation that was too free, with the authority of his white
hairs and his paternal interest in the girl. Meanwhile Germinie's horror of the house increased
every day. One week her sisters were compelled to take her back to the café by force.

A few days later, there was a great review on the Champ de Mars, and the waiters had leave
of absence for the day. Only Germinie and old Joseph remained in the house. Joseph was at work
sorting soiled linen in a small, dark room. He told Germinie to come and help him. She entered
the room; she cried out, fell to the floor, wept, implored, struggled, called desperately for
help. The empty house was deaf.

When she recovered consciousness, Germinie ran and shut herself up in her chamber. She was
not seen again that day. On the following day, when Joseph walked toward her and attempted
to speak to her, she recoiled from him in dismay, with the gesture of a woman mad with fear.
For a long time, whenever a man approached her, her first involuntary impulse was to draw back
suddenly, trembling and nervous, like a terrified, bewildered beast, looking about for means
of flight. Joseph, who feared that she would denounce him, allowed her to keep him at a distance,
and respected the horrible repugnance she exhibited for him.

She became enceinte. One Sunday she had been to pass the evening with her sister, the concierge;
she had an attack of vomiting, followed by severe pain. A physician who occupied an apartment
in the house, came to the lodge for his key, and the sisters learned from him the secret of
their younger sister's condition. The brutal, intractable pride of the common people in their
honor, the implacable severity of rigid piety, flew to arms in the two women and found vent
in fierce indignation. Their bewilderment changed to fury. Germinie recovered consciousness
under their blows, their insults, the wounds inflicted by their hands, the harsh words that
came from their mouths. Her brother-in-law was there, who had never forgiven her the cost of
her journey; he glanced at her with a bantering expression, with the cunning, ferocious joy
of an Auvergnat, with a sneering laugh that dyed the girl's cheeks a deeper red than her sisters'
blows.

She received the blows, she did not repel the insults. She sought neither to defend nor to
excuse herself. She did not tell what had taken place and how little her own desires had had
to do with her misfortune. She was dumb: she had a vague hope that they would kill her. When
her older sister asked her if there had been no violence, and reminded her that there were
police officers and courts, she closed her eyes at the thought of publishing her shame. For
one instant only, when her mother's memory was cast in her face, she emitted a glance, a lightning
flash from her eyes, by which the two women felt their consciences pierced; they remembered
that they were the ones who had placed her and kept her in that den, and had exposed her to
the danger, nay, had almost forced her into her misfortune.

That same evening, the younger of Germinie's sisters took her to the Rue Saint-Martin, to the
house of a repairer of cashmere shawls, with whom she lodged, and who, being almost daft on
the subject of religion, was banner-bearer in a sisterhood of the Virgin. She made her lie
beside her on a mattress on the floor, and having her there under her hand all night, she vented
upon her all her long-standing, venomous jealousy, her bitter resentment at the preference,
the caresses given Germinie by her father and mother. It was a long succession of petty tortures,
brutal or hypocritical exhibitions of spite, kicks that bruised her legs, and progressive movements
of the body by which she gradually forced her companion out of bed--it was a cold winter's
night--to the floor of the fireless room. During the day, the seamstress took Germinie in hand,
catechized her, preached at her, and by detailing the tortures of the other life, inspired
in her mind a horrible fear of the hell whose flames she caused her to feel.

She lived there four months, in close confinement, and was never allowed to leave the house.
At the end of four months she gave birth to a dead child. When her health was restored, she
entered the service of a depilator on Rue Laffitte, and for the first few days she had the
joyful feeling of having been released from prison. Two or three times, in her walks, she met
old Joseph who ran after her and wanted to marry her; but she escaped him and the old man never
knew that he had been a father.

But soon Germinie began to pine away in her new place. The house where she had taken service
as a maid of all work was what servants call "a barrack." A spendthrift and glutton, devoid
of order as of money, as is often the case with women engaged in the occupations that depend
upon chance, and in the problematical methods of gaining a livelihood in vogue in Paris, the
depilator, who was almost always involved in a lawsuit of some sort, paid but little heed to
her small servant's nourishment. She often went away for the whole day without leaving her
any dinner. The little one would satisfy her appetite as well as she could with some kind of
uncooked food, salads, vinegary things that deceive a young woman's appetite, even charcoal,
which she would nibble with the depraved taste and capricious stomach of her age and sex. This
diet, just after recovering from her confinement, her health being but partially restored and
greatly in need of stimulants, exhausted the young woman's strength, reduced her flesh and
undermined her constitution. She had a terrifying aspect. Her complexion changed to that dead
white that looks green in the daylight. Her swollen eyes were surrounded with a great, bluish
shadow. Her discolored lips assumed the hue of faded violets. Her breath failed her at the
slightest ascent, and the incessant vibrating sound that came from the arteries of her throat
was painful to those near her. With heavy feet and enfeebled body, she dragged herself along,
as if life were too heavy a burden for her. Her faculties and her senses were so torpid that
she swooned for no cause at all, for so small a matter as the fatigue of combing her mistress's
hair.

She was silently drooping there when her sister found her another place, with a former actor,
a retired comedian, living upon the money that the laughter of all Paris had brought him. The
good man was old and had never had any children. He took pity on the wretched girl, interested
himself in her welfare, took care of her and made much of her. He took her into the country.
He walked with her on the boulevards in the sunlight, and enjoyed the warmth the more for leaning
on her arm. It delighted him to see her in good spirits. Often, to amuse her, he would take
down a moth-eaten costume from his wardrobe and try to remember a fragment of some part that
had gone from his memory. The mere sight of this little maid and her white cap was like a ray
of returning youth to him. In his old age, Jocrisse leaned upon her with the good-fellowship,
the pleasures and the childish fancies of a grandfather's heart. But he died after a few months,
and Germinie had fallen back into the service of kept mistresses, boarding-house keepers, and
passageway tradesmen, when the sudden death of a maidservant gave her an opportunity to enter
the service of Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, then living on Rue Taitbout, in the house of which
her sister was concierge.

IV

Those people who look for the death of the Catholic religion in our day, do not realize by
what an infinite number of sturdy roots it still retains its hold upon the hearts of the people.
They do not realize the secret, delicate fascination it has for the woman of the people. They
do not realize what confession and the confessor are to the impoverished souls of those poor
women. In the priest who listens and whose voice falls softly on her ear, the woman of toil
and suffering sees not so much the minister of God, the judge of her sins, the arbiter of her
welfare, as the confidant of her sorrows and the friend of her misery. However coarse she may
be, there is always a little of the true woman in her, a feverish, trembling, sensitive, wounded
something, a restlessness and, as it were, the sighing of an invalid who craves caressing words,
even as a child's trifling ailments require the nurse's droning lullaby. She, as well as the
woman of the world, must have the consolation of pouring out her heart, of confiding her troubles
to a sympathetic ear. For it is the nature of her sex to seek an outlet for the emotions and
an arm to lean upon. There are in her mind things that she must tell, and concerning which
she would like to be questioned, pitied and comforted. She dreams of a compassionate interest,
a tender sympathy for hidden feelings of which she is ashamed. Her masters may be the kindest,
the most friendly, the most approachable of masters to the woman in their employ: their kindness
to her will still be of the same sort that they bestow upon a domestic animal. They will be
uneasy concerning her appetite and her health; they will look carefully after the animal part
of her, and that will be all. It will not occur to them that she can suffer elsewhere than
in her body, and they will not dream that she can have the heartache, the sadness and immaterial
pain for which they seek relief by confiding in those of their own station. In their eyes,
the woman who sweeps and does the cooking, has no ideas that can cause her to be sad or thoughtful,
and they never speak to her of her thoughts. To whom, then, shall she carry them? To the priest
who is waiting for them, asks for them, welcomes them, to the churchman who is also a man of
the world, a superior creature, a well-educated gentleman, who knows everything, speaks well,
is always accessible, gentle, patient, attentive, and seems to feel no scorn for the most humble
soul, the most shabbily dressed penitent. The priest alone listens to the woman in a cap. He
alone takes an interest in her secret sufferings, in the things that disturb and agitate her
and that bring to a maid, as well as to her mistress, the sudden longing to weep, or excite
a tempest within her. There is none but he to encourage her outpourings, to draw from her those
things which the irony of her daily life holds back, to look to the state of her moral health;
none but he to raise her above her material life, none but he to cheer her with moving words
of charity and hope,--such divine words as she has never heard from the mouths of the men of
her family and of her class.

After entering the service of Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, Germinie became profoundly religious
and cared for nothing but the church. She abandoned herself little by little to the sweet delight
of confession, to the priest's smooth, tranquil bass voice that came to her from the darkness,
to the conversations which resembled the touch of soothing words, and from which she went forth
refreshed, light of heart, free from care, and happy with a delightful sense of relief, as
if a balm had been applied to all the tender, suffering, fettered portions of her being.

She did not, could not, open her heart elsewhere. Her mistress had a certain masculine roughness
of demeanor which repelled expansiveness. She had an abrupt, exclamatory way of speaking that
forced back all that Germinie would have liked to confide to her. It was in her nature to be
brutal in her treatment of all lamentations that were not caused by pain or disappointment.
Her virile kindliness had no pity to spare for diseases of the imagination, for the suffering
that is created by the thought, for the weariness of spirit that flows from a woman's nerves
and from the disordered condition of her mental organism. Germinie often found her unfeeling;
the old woman had simply been hardened by the times in which she had lived and by the circumstances
of her life. The shell of her heart was as hard as her body. Never complaining herself, she
did not like to hear complaints about her. And by the right of all the tears she had not shed,
she detested childish tears in grown persons.

Soon the confessional became a sort of sacred, idolized rendezvous for Germinie's thoughts.
Every day it was her first idea, the theme of her first prayer. Throughout the day, she was
kneeling there as in a dream; and while she was about her work it was constantly before her
eyes, with its oaken frame with fillets of gold, its pediment in the shape of a winged angel's
head, its green curtain with the motionless folds, and the mysterious darkness on both sides.
It seemed to her that now her whole life centred there, and that every hour tended thither.
She lived through the week looking forward to that longed-for, prayed-for, promised day. On
Thursday, she began to be impatient; she felt, in the redoubling of her blissful agony, the
material drawing near, as it were, of the blessed Saturday evening; and when Saturday came
and mademoiselle's dinner had been hastily served and her work done, she would make her escape
and run to Notre-Dame de Lorette, hurrying to the penitential stool as to a lover's rendezvous.
Her fingers dipped in holy water and a genuflexion duly made, she would glide over the flags,
between the rows of chairs, as softly as a cat steals across a carpeted floor. With bent head,
almost crawling, she would go noiselessly forward in the shadow of the side aisles, until she
reached the mysterious, veiled confessional, where she would pause and await her turn, absorbed
in the emotion of suspense.

The young priest who confessed her, encouraged her frequent confessions. He was not sparing
of time or attention or charity. He allowed her to talk at great length and tell him, with
many words, of all her petty troubles. He was indulgent to the diffuseness of a suffering soul,
and permitted her to pour out freely her most trivial afflictions. He listened while she set
forth her anxieties, her longings, her troubles; he did not repel or treat with scorn any portion
of the confidences of a servant who spoke to him of all the most delicate, secret concerns
of her existence, as one would speak to a mother and a physician.

This priest was young. He was kind-hearted. He had lived in the world. A great sorrow had impelled
him, crushed and broken, to assume the gown wherein he wore mourning for his heart. There remained
something of the man in the depths of his being, and he listened, with melancholy compassion,
to the outpouring of this maidservant's suffering heart. He understood that Germinie needed
him, that he sustained and strengthened her, that he saved her from herself and removed her
from the temptations to which her nature exposed her. He was conscious of a sad sympathy for
that heart overflowing with affection, for the ardent, yet tractable girl, for the unhappy
creature who knew nothing of her own nature, who was promised to passion by every impulse of
her heart, by her whole body, and who betrayed in every detail of her person the vocation of
her temperament. Enlightened by his past experience, he was amazed and terrified sometimes
by the gleams that emanated from her, by the flame that shot from her eyes at the outburst
of love in a prayer, by the evident tendency of her confessions, by her constantly recurring
to that scene of violence, that scene in which her perfectly sincere purpose to resist seemed
to the priest to have been betrayed by a convulsion of the senses that was stronger than she.

This fever of religion lasted several years, during which Germinie lived a concentrated, silent,
happy life, entirely devoted to God's service--at least she thought so. Her confessor, however,
had come gradually to the conclusion that all her adoration tended toward himself. By her glances,
by her blushes, by the words she no longer said to him, and by others which she made bold to
say to him for the first time, he realized that his penitent's devotion was going astray and
becoming unduly fervent, deceiving itself as to its object. She watched for him when the services
were at an end, followed him into the sacristy, hung on his skirts, ran into the church after
his cassock. The confessor tried to warn her, to divert her amorous fervor from himself. He
became more reserved and assumed a cold demeanor. In despair at this change, at his apparent
indifference, Germinie, feeling bitter and hurt, confessed to him one day, in the confessional,
the hatred that had taken possession of her for two young girls, who were his favorite penitents.
Thereupon the priest dismissed her, without discussion, and sent her to another confessor.
Germinie went once or twice to confess to this other confessor; then she ceased to go; soon
she ceased even to think of going, and of all her religion naught remained in her mind but
a certain far-off sweetness, like the faint odor of burned-out incense.

Affairs had reached that point when mademoiselle fell ill. Throughout her illness, as Germinie
did not want to leave her, she did not attend mass. And on the first Sunday--when mademoiselle,
being fully recovered, did not require her care, she was greatly surprised to find that "her
devotee" remained at home and did not run away to church.

"Oho!" said she, "so you don't go and see your curés nowadays? What have they done to you, eh?"

"Nothing," said Germinie.

V

"There, mademoiselle!--Look at me," said Germinie.

It was a few months later. She had asked her mistress's permission to go that evening to the
wedding ball of her grocer's sister, who had chosen her for her maid-of-honor, and she had
come to exhibit herself en grande toilette, in her low-necked muslin dress.

Mademoiselle raised her eyes from the old volume, printed in large type, which she was reading,
removed her spectacles, placed them in the book to mark her place, and exclaimed:

"What, my little bigot, you at a ball! Do you know, my girl, this seems to me downright nonsense!
You and the hornpipe! Faith, all you need now is to want to get married! A deuce of a want,
that! But if you marry, I warn you that I won't keep you--mind that! I've no desire to wait
on your brats! Come a little nearer----Oho! why----bless my soul! Mademoiselle Show-all! We're
getting to be a bit of a flirt lately, I find----"

"Why no, mademoiselle," Germinie tried to say.

"And then," continued Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, following out her thought, "among you people,
the men are such sweet creatures! They'll spend all you have--to say nothing of the blows.
But marriage--I am sure that that nonsensical idea of getting married buzzes around in your
head when you see the others. That's what gives you that simper, I'll wager. Bon Dieu de Dieu!
Now turn a bit, so that I can see you," said Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, with an abrupt change
of tone to one that was almost caressing; and placing her thin hands on the arms of her easy-chair,
crossing her legs and moving her foot back and forth, she set about inspecting Germinie and
her toilet.

"What the devil!" said she, after a few moments of silent scrutiny, "what! is it really you?----Then
I have never used my eyes to look at you.----Good God, yes!----But----but----" She mumbled
more vague exclamations between her teeth.----"Where the deuce did you get that mug like an
amorous cat's?" she said at last, and continued to gaze at her.

Germinie was ugly. Her hair, of so dark a chestnut that it seemed black, curled and twisted
in unruly waves, in little stiff, rebellious locks, which escaped and stood up all over her
head, despite the pomade upon her shiny bandeaux. Her smooth, narrow, swelling brow protruded
above the shadow of the deep sockets in which her eyes were buried and sunken to such a depth
as almost to denote disease; small, bright, sparkling eyes they were, made to seem smaller
and brighter by a constant girlish twinkle that softened and lighted up their laughter. They
were neither brown eyes nor blue eyes, but were of an undefinable, changing gray, a gray that
was not a color, but a light! Emotion found expression therein in the flame of fever, pleasure
in the flashing rays of a sort of intoxication, passion in phosphorescence. Her short, turned-up
nose, with large, dilated, palpitating nostrils, was one of those noses of which the common
people say that it rains inside: upon one side, at the corner of the eye was a thick, swollen
blue vein. The square head of the Lorraine race was emphasized in her broad, high, prominent
cheek-bones, which were well-covered with the traces of small-pox. The most noticeable defect
in her face was the too great distance between the nose and mouth. This lack of proportion
gave an almost apish character to the lower part of the head, where the expansive mouth, with
white teeth and full lips that looked as if they had been crushed, they were so flat, smiled
at you with a strange, vaguely irritating smile.

Her décolleté dress disclosed her neck, the upper part of her breast, her shoulders and her
white back, presenting a striking contrast to her swarthy face. It was a lymphatic sort of
whiteness, the whiteness, at once unhealthy and angelic, of flesh in which there is no life.
She had let her arms fall by her sides--round, smooth arms with a pretty dimple at the elbow.
Her wrists were delicate; her hands, which did not betray the servant, were embellished with
a lady's fingernails. And lazily, with graceful sloth, she allowed her indolent figure to curve
and sway;--a figure that a garter might span, and that was made even more slender to the eye
by the projection of the hips and the curve of the hoops that gave the balloon-like roundness
to her skirt;--an impossible waist, absurdly small but adorable, like everything in woman that
offends one's sense of proportion by its diminutiveness.

From this ugly woman emanated a piquant, mysterious charm. Light and shadow, jostling and intercepting
each other on her face on which hollows and protuberances abounded, imparted to it that suggestion
of libertinism which the painter of love scenes gives to the rough sketch of his mistress.
Everything about her,--her mouth, her eyes, her very plainness--was instinct with allurement
and solicitation. Her person exhaled an aphrodisiac charm, which challenged and laid fast hold
of the other sex. It unloosed desire, and caused an electric shock. Sensual thoughts were naturally
and involuntarily aroused by her, by her gestures, her gait, her slightest movement--even by
the air in which her body had left one of its undulations. Beside her, one felt as if he were
near one of those disturbing, disquieting creatures, burning with the love disease and communicating
it to others, whose face appears to man in his restless hours, torments his listless noonday
thoughts, haunts his nights and trespasses upon his dreams.

In the midst of Mademoiselle de Varandeuil's scrutiny, Germinie stooped over her, and covered
her hand with hurried kisses.

"There--there--enough of that," said Mademoiselle. "You would soon wear out the skin--with
your way of kissing. Come, run along, enjoy yourself, and try not to stay out too late. Don't
get all tired out."

Mademoiselle de Varandeuil was left alone. She placed her elbows on her knees, stared at the
fire and stirred the burning wood with the tongs. Then, as she was accustomed to do when deeply
preoccupied, she struck herself two or three sharp little blows on the neck with the flat of
her hand, and thereby set her black cap all awry.

VI

When she mentioned the subject of marriage to Germinie, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil touched
upon the real cause of her trouble. She placed her hand upon the seat of her ennui. Her maid's
uneven temper, her distaste for life, the languor, the emptiness, the discontent of her existence,
arose from that disease which medical science calls the melancholia of virgins. The torment
of her twenty-four years was the ardent, excited, poignant longing for marriage, for that state
which was too holy and honorable for her, and which seemed impossible of attainment in face
of the confession her womanly probity would insist upon making of her fall and her unworthiness.
Family losses and misfortunes forcibly diverted her mind from her own troubles.

Her brother-in-law, her sister the concierge's husband, had dreamed the dream of all Auvergnats:
he had undertaken to increase his earnings as concierge by the profits of a dealer in bric-à-brac.
He had begun modestly with a stall in the street, at the doors of the marts where executors'
sales are held; and there you could see, set out upon blue paper, plated candlesticks, ivory
napkin rings, colored lithographs with frames of gold lace on a black ground, and three or
four odd volumes of Buffon. His profit on the plated candlesticks intoxicated him. He hired
a dark shop on a passage way, opposite an umbrella mender's, and began to trade upon the credulity
that goes in and out of the lower rooms in the Auction Exchange. He sold assiettes à coq, pieces
of Jean Jacques Rousseau's wooden shoe, and water-colors by Ballue, signed Watteau. In that
business he threw away what he had made, and ran in debt to the amount of several thousand
francs. His wife, in order to straighten matters out a little and to try and get out of debt,
asked for and obtained a place as box-opener at the Théâtre-Historique. She hired her sister
the dressmaker to watch the door in the evening, went to bed at one o'clock and was astir again
at five. After a few months she caught cold in the corridors of the theatre, and an attack
of pleurisy laid her low and carried her off in six weeks. The poor woman left a little girl
three years old, who was taken down with the measles; the disease assumed its most malignant
form in the foul stench of the loft, where the child had breathed for more than a month air
poisoned by the breath of her dying mother. The father had gone into the country to try and
borrow money. He married again there. Nothing more was heard of him.

When returning from her sister's burial Germinie ran to the house of an old woman who made
a living in those curious industries which prevent poverty from absolutely starving to death
in Paris. This old woman carried on several trades. Sometimes she cut bristles into equal lengths
for brushes, sometimes she sorted out bits of gingerbread. When those industries failed, she
did cooking and washed the faces of pedlars' children. In Lent she rose at four o'clock in
the morning, went and took possession of a chair at Notre-Dame, and sold it for ten or twelve
sous when the crowd arrived. In order to procure fuel to warm herself, in the den where she
lived on Rue Saint-Victor, she would go, at nightfall, to the Luxembourg and peel the bark
off the trees. Germinie, who knew her from having given her the crusts from the kitchen every
week, hired a servant's room on the sixth floor of the house, and took up her abode there with
the little one. She did it on the impulse of the moment, without reflection. She did not remember
her sister's harsh treatment of her when she was enceinte, so that she had no need to forgive it.

Thenceforth Germinie had but one thought, her niece. She determined to rescue her from death
and restore her to life by dint of careful nursing. She would rush away from Mademoiselle at
every moment, run up the stairs to the sixth floor four at a time, kiss the child, give her
her draught, arrange her comfortably in bed, look at her, and rush down again, all out of breath
and red with pleasure. Care, caresses, the breath from the heart with which we revive a tiny
flame on the point of dying out, consultations, doctor's visits, costly medicines, the remedies
of the wealthy,--Germinie spared nothing for the little one and gave her everything. Her wages
flowed through that channel. For almost a year she gave her beef juice every morning: sleepyhead
that she was, she left her bed at five o'clock in the morning to prepare it, and awoke without
being called, as mothers do. The child was out of danger at last, when Germinie received a
visit one morning from her sister the dressmaker, who had been married two or three years to
a machinist, and who came now to bid her adieu: her husband was going to accompany some fellow-workmen
who had been hired to go to Africa. She was going with him and she proposed to Germinie that
they should take the little one with them as a playmate for their own child. They offered to
take her off her hands. Germinie, they said, would have to pay only for the journey. It was
a separation she would have to make up her mind to sooner or later on account of her mistress.
And then, said the sister, she was the child's aunt too. And she heaped words upon words to
induce Germinie to give them the child, with whom she and her husband expected, after their
arrival in Africa, to move Germinie to pity, to get possession of her wages, to play upon her
heart and her purse.

It cost Germinie very dear to part with her niece. She had staked a portion of her existence
upon the child. She was attached to her by her anxiety and her sacrifices. She had disputed
possession of her with disease and had won the day; the girl's life was her miracle. And yet
she realized that she could never take her to mademoiselle's apartments; that mademoiselle,
at her age, with the burden of her years, and an aged person's need of tranquillity, could
never endure the constant noise and movement of a child. And then, the little girl's presence
in the house would cause idle gossip and set the whole street agog: people would say she was
her child. Germinie made a confidante of her mistress. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil knew the
whole story. She knew that she had taken charge of her niece, although she had pretended not
to know it; she had chosen to see nothing in order to permit everything. She advised Germinie
to entrust her niece to her sister, pointing out to her all the difficulties in the way of
keeping her herself, and she gave her money to pay for the journey of the whole family.

The parting was a heart-breaking thing to Germinie. She found herself left alone and without
occupation. Not having the child, she knew not what to love; her heart was weary, and she had
such a feeling of the emptiness of life without the little one, that she turned once more to
religion and transferred her affections to the church.

Three months had passed when she received news of her sister's death. The husband, who was
one of the whining, lachrymose breed of mechanics, gave her in his letter, mingled with labored,
moving phrases, and threads of pathos, a despairing picture of his position, with the burial
to pay for, attacks of fever that prevented him from working, two young children, without counting
the little girl, and a household with no wife to heat the soup. Germinie wept over the letter;
then her thoughts turned to living in that house, beside that poor man, among the poor children,
in that horrible Africa; and a vague longing to sacrifice herself began to awaken within her.
Other letters followed, in which, while thanking her for her assistance, her brother-in-law
gave to his poverty, to his desolate plight, to the misery that enveloped him, a still more
dramatic coloring--the coloring that the common people impart to trifles, with its memories
of the Boulevard du Crime and its fragments of vile books. Once caught by the blague of this
misery, Germinie could not cut loose from it. She fancied she could hear the cries of the children
calling her. She became completely absorbed, buried in the project and resolution of going
to them. She was haunted by the idea and by the word Africa, which she turned over and over
incessantly in the depths of her mind, without a word. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, noticing
her thoughtfulness and melancholy, asked her what the matter was, but in vain: Germinie did
not speak. She was pulled this way and that, tormented between what seemed to her a duty and
what seemed to her ingratitude, between her mistress and her sisters' blood. She thought that
she could not leave mademoiselle. And again she said to herself that God did not wish her to
abandon her family. She would look about the apartment and mutter: "And yet I must go!" Then
she would fear that mademoiselle might be sick when she was not there. Another maid! At that
thought she was seized with jealousy and fancied that she could already see someone stealing
her mistress. At other moments, when her religious ideas impelled her to thoughts of self-sacrifice,
she was all ready to devote her existence to this brother-in-law. She determined to go and
live with this man, whom she detested, with whom she had always been on the worst of terms,
who had almost killed her sister with grief, whom she knew to be a brutish, drunken sot; and
all that she anticipated, all that she dreaded, the certainty of all she would have to suffer
and her shrinking fear of it, served to exalt and inflame her imagination, to urge her on to
the sacrifice with the greater impatience and ardor. Often the whole scheme fell to the ground
in an instant: at a word, at a gesture from mademoiselle, Germinie would become herself once
more, and would fail to recognize herself. She felt that she was bound to her mistress absolutely
and forever, and she had a thrill of horror at having so much as thought of detaching her own
life from hers. She struggled thus for two years. Then she learned one fine day, by chance,
that her niece had died a few weeks after her sister: her brother-in-law had concealed the
child's death in order to maintain his hold upon her, and to lure her to him in Africa, with
her few sous. Germinie's illusions being wholly dispelled by that revelation, she was cured
on the spot. She hardly remembered that she had ever thought of going away.

VII

About this time a small creamery at the end of the street, with few customers, changed hands,
as a result of the sale of the real estate by order of court. The shop was renovated and repainted.
The front windows were embellished with inscriptions in yellow letters. Pyramids of chocolate
from the Compagnie Coloniale, and coffee-cups filled with flowers, alternating with small liqueur
glasses, were displayed upon the shelves. At the door glistened the sign--a copper milk jug
divided in the middle.

The woman who thus endeavored to re-establish the concern, the new crémière, was a person of
about fifty years of age, whose corpulence passed all bounds, and who still retained some débris
of beauty, half submerged in fat. It was said in the quarter that she had set herself up in
business with the money of an old gentleman, whose servant she had been until his death, in
her native province, near Langres; for it happened that she was a countrywoman of Germinie,
not from the same village, but from a small place near by; and although she and mademoiselle's
maid had never met nor seen each other in the country, they knew each other by name and were
drawn together by the fact that they had acquaintances in common and could compare memories
of the same places. The stout woman was a flattering, affected, fawning creature. She said:
"My love" to everybody, talked in a piping voice, and played the child with the querulous languor
of corpulent persons. She detested vulgar remarks and would blush and take alarm at trifles.
She adored secrets, twisted everything into a confidential communication, invented stories
and always whispered in your ear. Her life was passed in gossiping and groaning. She pitied
others and she pitied herself; she lamented her ill fortune and her stomach. When she had eaten
too much she would say dramatically: "I am dying!" and nothing ever was so pathetic as her
indigestion. She was constantly moved to tears: she wept indiscriminately for a maltreated
horse, for someone who had died, for milk that had curdled. She wept over the various items
in the newspapers, she wept for the sake of weeping.

Germinie was very soon ensnared and moved to pity by this wheedling, talkative crémière, who
was always in a state of intense emotion, calling upon others to open their hearts to her,
and apparently so affectionate. After three months hardly anything passed mademoiselle's doors
that did not come from Mère Jupillon. Germinie procured everything, or almost everything there.
She passed hours in the shop. Once there it was hard work for her to leave; she remained there,
unable to rise from her chair. A sort of instinctive cowardice detained her. At the door she
would stop and talk on, in order to delay her departure. She felt bound to the crémière by
the invisible charm of familiar places to which you constantly return, and which end by embracing
you like things that would love you. And then, too, in her eyes the shop meant Madame Jupillon's
three dogs, three wretched curs; she always had them on her knees, she scolded them and kissed
them and talked to them; and when she was warm with their warmth, she would feel in the depths
of her heart the contentment of a beast rubbing against her little ones. Again, the shop to
her meant all the gossip of the quarter, the rendezvous of all the scandals,--how this one
had failed to pay her note and that one had received a carriage load of flowers; it meant a
place that was on the watch for everything, even to the lace peignoir going to town on the
maid's arm.

In a word everything tended to attach her to the place. Her intimacy with the crémière was
strengthened by all the mysterious bonds of friendship between women of the people, by the
continual chatter, the daily exchange of the trivial affairs of life, the conversation for
the sake of conversing, the repetition of the same bonjour and the same bonsoir, the division
of caresses among the same animals, the naps side by side and chair against chair. The shop
at last became her regular place for idling away her time, a place where her thoughts, her
words, her body and her very limbs were marvelously at ease. There came a time when her happiness
consisted in sitting drowsily of an evening in a straw arm-chair, beside Mère Jupillon--sound
asleep with her spectacles on her nose--and holding the dogs rolled in a ball in the skirt
of her dress; and while the lamp, almost dying, burned pale upon the counter, she would sit
idly there, letting her glance lose itself at the back of the shop, and gradually grow dim,
with her ideas, as her eyes rested vaguely upon a triumphal arch of snail shells joined together
with old moss, beneath which stood a little copper Napoléon, with his hands behind his back.

VIII

Madame Jupillon, who claimed to have been married and signed herself Widow Jupillon, had a
son. He was still a child. She had placed him at Saint-Nicholas, the great religious establishment
where, for thirty francs a month, rudimentary instruction and a trade are furnished to the
children of the common people, and to many natural children. Germinie fell into the way of
accompanying Madame Jupillon when she went to see Bibi on Thursdays. This visit became a means
of distraction to her, something to look forward to. She would urge the mother to hurry, would
always arrive first at the omnibus office, and was content to sit with her arms resting on
a huge basket of provisions all the way.

It happened that Mère Jupillon had trouble with her leg--a carbuncle that prevented her from
walking for nearly eighteen months. Germinie went alone to Saint-Nicholas, and as she was promptly
and easily led to devote herself to others, she took as deep an interest in that child as if
he were connected with her in some way. She did not miss a single Thursday and always arrived
with her hands full of the last week's desserts, and with cakes and fruit and sweetmeats she
had bought. She would kiss the urchin, inquire for his health, and feel to see if he had his
knitted vest under his blouse; she would notice how flushed he was from running, would wipe
his face with her handkerchief and make him show her the soles of his shoes so that she could
see if there were any holes in them. She would ask if his teachers were satisfied with him,
if he attended to his duties and if he had had many good marks. She would talk to him of his
mother and bid him love the good Lord, and until the clock struck two she would walk with him
in the courtyard: the child would offer her his arm, as proud as you please to be with a woman
much better dressed than the majority of those who came there--with a woman in silk. He was
anxious to learn the flageolet. It cost only five francs a month, but his mother would not
give them. Germinie carried him the hundred sous every month, on the sly. It was a humiliating
thing to him to wear the little uniform blouse when he went out to walk, and on the two or
three occasions during the year when he went to see his mother. On his birthday, one year,
Germinie unfolded a large parcel before him: she had had a tunic made for him; it is doubtful
if twenty of his comrades in the whole school belonged to families in sufficiently easy circumstances
to wear such garments.

She spoiled him thus for several years, not allowing him to suffer with a longing for anything,
encouraging the caprices and the pride of wealthy children in the poor child, softening for
him the privations and hardships of that trade school, where children were formed for a laboring
life, wore blouses and ate off plates of brown earthenware; a school that by its toilsome apprenticeship
hardened the children of the people to lives of toil. Meanwhile the boy was growing fast. Germinie
did not notice it: in her eyes he was still the child he had always been. From habit she always
stooped to kiss him. One day she was summoned before the abbé who was at the head of the school.
He spoke to her of expelling Jupillon. Obscene books had been found in his possession. Germinie,
trembling at the thought of the blows that awaited the child at his mother's hands, prayed
and begged and implored; she succeeded at last in inducing the abbé to forgive the culprit.
When she went down into the courtyard again she attempted to scold him; but at the first word
of her moral lecture, Bibi suddenly cast in her face a glance and smile in which there was
no trace of the child that he was the day before. She lowered her eyes, and she was the one
to blush. A fortnight passed before she went again to Saint-Nicholas.

IX

About the time that young Jupillon left the boarding-school, a maid in the service of a kept
woman who lived on the floor below mademoiselle sometimes passed the evening with Germinie
at Madame Jupillon's. A native of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which supplies Paris with
coupé drivers and lorettes' waiting-maids, this girl was what is called in vulgar parlance:
"a great bringue;" she was an awkward, wild-eyed creature, with the eyebrows of a water carrier.
She soon fell into the habit of going there every evening. She treated everybody to cakes and
liquors, amused herself by showing off little Jupillon, playing pat-a-cake with him, sitting
on his knee, telling him to his face that he was a beauty, treating him like a child, playing
the wanton with him and joking him because he was not a man. The boy, happy and proud of these
attentions from the first woman who had ever taken notice of him, manifested before long his
preference for Adèle: so was the new-comer called.

Germinie was passionately jealous. Jealousy was the foundation of her nature; it was the dregs
of her affection and gave it its bitter taste. Those whom she loved she wished to have entirely
to herself, to possess them absolutely. She demanded that they should love no one but her.
She could not permit them to take from her and bestow upon others the slightest fragment of
their affection: as she had earned it, it no longer belonged to them; they were no longer entitled
to dispose of it. She detested the people whom her mistress seemed to welcome more cordially
than others, and with whom she was on most intimate terms. By her ill-humor and her sullen
manner she had offended, had almost driven from the house, two or three of mademoiselle's old
friends, whose visits wounded her; as if the old ladies came there for the purpose of abstracting
something from the rooms, of taking a little of her mistress from her. People of whom she had
once been fond became odious to her: she did not consider that they were fond enough of her;
she hated them for all the love she wanted from them. Her heart was despotic and exacting in
everything. As it gave all, it demanded all in return. At the least sign of coldness, at the
slightest indication that she had a rival, she would fly into a rage, tear her hair, pass her
nights in weeping, and execrate the whole world.

Seeing that other woman make herself at home in the shop and adopt a tone of familiarity with
the young man, all Germinie's jealous instincts were aroused and changed to furious rage. Her
hatred flew to arms and rebelled, with her disgust, against the shameless, brazen-faced creature,
who could be seen on Sunday sitting at table on the outer boulevards with soldiers, and who
had blue marks on her face on Monday. She did her utmost to induce Madame Jupillon to turn
her away; but she was one of the best customers of the creamery, and the crémière mildly refused
to close her doors upon her. Germinie had recourse to the son and told him that she was a miserable
creature. But that only served to attach the young man the closer to the vile woman, whose
evil reputation delighted him. Moreover, he had the cruel mischievous instinct of youth, and
he redoubled his attentions to her simply to see "the nose" that Germinie made and to enjoy
her despair. Soon Germinie discovered that the woman's intentions were more serious than she
had at first supposed: she began to understand what she wanted of the child,--for the tall
youth of seventeen was still a child in her eyes. Thenceforward she hung upon their steps;
she was always beside them, never left them alone for a moment, made one at all their parties,
at the theatre or in the country, joined them in all their walks, was always at hand and in
the way, seeking to hold Adèle back, and to restore her sense of decency by a word in an undertone:
"A mere boy! ain't you ashamed?" she would say to her. And the other would laugh aloud, as
if it were a good joke.

When they left the theatre, enlivened and heated by the feverish excitement of the performance
and the place; when they returned from an excursion to the country, laden with a long day's
sunshine, intoxicated with the blue sky and the pure air, excited by the wine imbibed at dinner,
amid the sportive liberties in which the woman of the people, drunk with enjoyment and with
the delights of unlimited good cheer, and with the senses keyed up to the highest pitch of
joviality, makes bold to indulge at night, Germinie tried to be always between the maid and
Jupillon. She never relaxed her efforts to break the lovers' hold upon each other's arms, to
unbind them, to uncouple them. Never wearying of the task, she was forever separating them,
luring them away from each other. She placed her body between those bodies that were groping
for each other. She glided between the hands outstretched to touch each other; she glided between
the lips that were put forth in search of other proffered lips. But of all this that she prevented
she felt the breath and the shock. She felt the pressure of the hands she held apart, the caresses
that she caught on the wing and that missed their mark and went astray upon her. The hot breath
of the kisses she intercepted blew upon her cheek. Involuntarily, and with a feeling of horror,
she became a party to the embracing, she was infected with the desires aroused by this constant
friction and struggling, which diminished day by day the young man's restraint and respect
for her person.

It happened one day that she was less strong against herself than she had previously been.
On that occasion she did not elude his advances so abruptly as usual. Jupillon felt that she
stopped short. Germinie felt it even more keenly than he; but she was at the end of her efforts,
exhausted with the torture she had undergone. The love which, coming from another, she had
turned aside from Jupillon, had slowly taken full possession of her own heart. Now it was firmly
rooted there, and, bleeding with jealousy, she found that she was incapable of resistance,
weak and fainting, like a person fatally wounded, in presence of the joy that had come to her.

She repelled the young man's audacious attempts, however, without a word. She did not dream
of belonging to him otherwise than as a friend, or giving way farther than she had done. She
lived upon the thought of love, believing that she could live upon it always. And in the ecstatic
exaltation of her thoughts, she put aside all memory of her fall, and repressed her desires.
She remained shuddering and pure, lost and suspended in abysses of affection, neither enjoying
nor wishing for aught from the lover but a caress, as if her heart were made only for the joy
of kissing.

X

This happy though unsatisfied love produced a strange physiological phenomenon in Germinie's
physical being. One would have said that the passion that was alive within her renewed and
transformed her lymphatic temperament. She did not seem, as before, to extract her life, drop
by drop, from a penurious spring: it flowed through her arteries in a full, generous stream;
she felt the tingling sensation of rich blood over her whole body. She seemed to be filled
with the warm glow of health, and the joy of living beat its wings in her breast like a bird
in the sunlight.

A marvelous animation had come to her. The miserable nervous energy that once sustained her
had given place to healthy activity, to bustling, restless, overflowing gayety. She had no
trace now of the weakness, the dejection, the prostration, the supineness, the sluggishness
that formerly distinguished her. The heavy, drowsy feeling in the morning was a thing of the
past; she awoke feeling fresh and bright, and alive in an instant to the cheer of the new day.
She dressed in haste, playfully; her agile fingers moved of themselves, and she was amazed
to be so bright and full of activity during the hours of faintness before breakfast, when she
had so often felt her heart upon her lips. And throughout the day she had the same consciousness
of physical well-being, the same briskness of movement. She must be always on the move, walking,
running, doing something, expending her strength. At times all that she had lived through seemed
to have no existence; the sensations of living that she had hitherto experienced seemed to
her like a far-off dream, or as if dimly seen in the background of a sleeping memory. The past
lay behind her, as if she had traversed it, covered with a veil like one in a swoon, or with
the unconsciousness of a somnambulist. It was the first time that she had experienced the feeling,
the impression, at once bitter and sweet, violent and celestial, of the game of life brilliant
in its plenitude, its regularity and its power.

She ran up and downstairs for a nothing. At a word from mademoiselle she would trip down the
whole five flights. When she was seated, her feet danced on the floor. She brushed and scrubbed
and beat and shook and washed and set to rights, without rest or reprieve, always at work,
filling the apartment with her goings and comings, and the incessant bustle that followed her
about.--"Mon Dieu!" her mistress would say, stunned by the uproar she made, just like a child,--"you're
turning things upside down, Germinie! that will do for that!"

One day, when she went into Germinie's kitchen, mademoiselle saw a little earth in a cigar
box on the leads.--"What's that?" she asked.--"That's grass--that I planted--to look at," said
Germinie.--"So you're in love with grass now, eh? All you need now is to have canaries!"

XI

In the course of a few months, Germinie's life, her whole life belonged to the crémière. Mademoiselle's
service was not exacting and took but little time. A whiting or a cutlet--that was all the
cooking there was to be done. Mademoiselle might have kept her with her in the evening for
company: she preferred, however, to send her away, to drive her out of doors, to force her
to take a little air and diversion. She asked only that she would return at ten o'clock to
help her to bed; and yet when Germinie was a little late, mademoiselle undressed herself and
went to bed alone very comfortably. Every hour that her mistress left her at leisure, Germinie
passed in the shop. She fell into the habit of going down to the creamery in the morning, when
the shutters were removed, and generally carried them inside; she would take her café au lait
there and remain until nine o'clock, when she would go back and give mademoiselle her chocolate;
and between breakfast and dinner she found excuses for returning two or three times, delaying
and chattering in the back-shop on the slightest pretext. "What a magpie you are getting to
be!" mademoiselle would say, in a scolding voice, but with a smiling face.

At half past five, when her mistress's little dinner was cleared away, she would run down the
stairs four at a time, install herself at Mère Jupillon's, wait until ten o'clock, clamber
up the five flights, and in five minutes undress her mistress, who submitted unresistingly,
albeit she was somewhat astonished that Germinie should be in such haste to go to bed; she
remembered the time when she had a mania for moving her sleepy body from one easy-chair to
another, and was never willing to go up to her room. While the candle was still smoking on
mademoiselle's night table, Germinie would be back at the creamery, this time to remain until
midnight, until one o'clock; often she did not go until a policeman, noticing the light, tapped
on the shutters and made them close up.

In order to be always there and to have the right to be always there, to make herself a part
of the shop, to keep her eyes constantly upon the man she loved, to hover about him, to keep
him, to be always brushing against him, she had become the servant of the establishment. She
swept the shop, she prepared the old woman's meals and the food for the dogs. She waited upon
the son; she made his bed, she brushed his clothes, she waxed his boots, happy and proud to
touch what he touched, thrilling with pleasure when she placed her hand where he placed his
body, and ready to kiss the mud upon the leather of his boots, because it was his!

She did the menial work, she kept the shop, she served the customers. Madame Jupillon rested
everything upon her shoulders; and while the good-natured girl was working and perspiring,
the bulky matron, assuming the majestic, leisurely air of an annuitant, anchored upon a chair
in the middle of the sidewalk and inhaling the fresh air of the street, fingered and rattled
the precious coin in the capacious pocket beneath her apron--the coin that rings so sweetly
in the ears of the petty tradesmen of Paris, that the retired shopkeeper is melancholy beyond
words at first, because he no longer has the chinking and the tinkling under his hand.

XII

When the spring came, Germinie said to Jupillon almost every evening: "Suppose we go as far
as the beginning of the fields?"

Jupillon would put on his flannel shirt with red and black squares, and his black velvet cap;
and they would start for what the people of the quarter call "the beginning of the fields."

They would go up the Chaussée Clignancourt, and, with the flood of Parisians from the faubourg
hurrying to drink a little fresh air, would walk on toward the great patch of sky that rose
straight from the pavements, at the top of the ascent, between the two lines of houses, unobstructed
except by an occasional omnibus. The air was growing cooler and the sun shone only upon the
roofs of the houses and the chimneys. As from a great door opening into the country, there
came from the end of the street and from the sky beyond, a breath of boundless space and liberty.

At the Château-Rouge they found the first tree, the first foliage. Then, at Rue du Château,
the horizon opened before them in dazzling beauty. The fields stretched away in the distance,
glistening vaguely in the powdery, golden haze of seven o'clock. All nature trembled in the
daylight dust that the day leaves in its wake, upon the verdure it blots from sight and the
houses it suffuses with pink.

Frequently they descended the footpath covered with the figures of the game of hop-scotch marked
out in charcoal, by long walls with an occasional overhanging branch, by lines of detached
houses with gardens between. At their left rose tree-tops filled with light, clustering foliage
pierced by the beams of the setting sun, which cast lines of fire across the bars of the iron
gateways. After the gardens came hedgerows, estates for sale, unfinished buildings erected
upon the line of projected streets and stretching out their jagged walls into empty space,
with heaps of broken bottles at their feet; large, low, plastered houses, with windows filled
with bird-cages and cloths, and with the Y of the sink-pipes at every floor; and openings into
enclosures that resembled barnyards, studded with little mounds on which goats were browsing.

They would stop here and there and smell the flowers, inhale the perfume of a meagre lilac
growing in a narrow lane. Germinie would pluck a leaf in passing and nibble at it.

Flocks of joyous swallows flew wildly about in circles and in fantastic figures over her head.
The birds called. The sky answered the cages. She heard everything about her singing, and glanced
with a glad eye at the women in chemisettes at the windows, the men in their shirt sleeves
in the little gardens, the mothers on the doorsteps with their little ones between their legs.

At the foot of the slope the pavement came to an end. The street was succeeded by a broad,
white, chalky, dusty road, made of débris, old pieces of plaster, crumbs of lime and bricks;
a sunken road, with deep ruts, polished on the edges, made by the iron tires of the huge great
wheels of carts laden with hewn stone. At that point began the things that collect where Paris
ends, the things that grow where grass does not grow, one of those arid landscapes that large
cities create around them, the first zone of suburbs intra muros where nature is exhausted,
the soil used up, the fields sown with oyster shells. Beyond was a wilderness of half-enclosed
yards displaying numbers of carts and trucks with their shafts in the air against the sky,
stone-cutters' sheds, factories built of boards, unfinished workmen's houses, full of gaps
and open to the light, and bearing the mason's flag, wastes of gray and white sand, kitchen
gardens marked out with cords, and, on the lower level, bogs to which the embankment of the
road slopes down in oceans of small stones.

Soon they would reach the last lantern hanging on a green post. People were still coming and
going about them. The road was alive and amused the eyes. They met women carrying their husband's
canes, lorettes in silk dresses leaning on the arms of their blouse-clad brothers, old women
in bright-colored ginghams walking about with folded arms, enjoying a moment's rest from labor.
Workmen were drawing their children in little wagons, urchins returning with their rods from
fishing at Saint-Ouen, and men and women dragging branches of flowering acacia at the ends
of sticks.

Sometimes a pregnant woman would pass, holding out her arms to a yet small child, and casting
the shadow of her pregnancy upon the wall.

And everyone moved tranquilly, blissfully, at a pace that told of the wish to delay, with the
awkward ease and the happy indolence of those who walk for pleasure. No one was in a hurry,
and against the unbroken horizon line, crossed from time to time by the white smoke of a railroad
train, the groups of promenaders were like black spots, almost motionless, in the distance.

Behind Montmartre, they came to those great moats, as it were, those sloping squares, where
narrow, gray, much-trodden paths cross and recross. A few blades of shriveled, yellow grass
grew thereabout, softened by the rays of the setting sun, which they could see, all ablaze,
between the houses. And Germinie loved to watch the wool-combers at work there, the quarry
horses at pasture in the bare fields, the madder-red trousers of the soldiers who were playing
at bowls, the children flying kites that made black spots in the clear air. Passing all these,
they turned to cross the bridge over the railroad by the wretched settlement of ragpickers,
the stonemasons' quarter at the foot of Clignancourt hill. They would walk quickly by those
houses built of materials stolen from demolished buildings, and exuding the horrors they conceal;
the wretched structures, half cabin, half burrow, caused Germinie a vague feeling of terror:
it seemed to her as if all the crimes of Night were lurking there.

But at the fortifications her pleasure returned. She would go with Jupillon and sit upon the
slope of the embankment. Beside her were families innumerable, workmen lying flat upon their
faces, small annuitants gazing at the horizon through spy-glasses, philosophers of want, bent
double, with their hands upon their knees, the greasy coats characteristic of old men, and
black hats worn as red as their red beards. The air was full of rich harmonies. Below her,
in the moat, a musical society was playing at each corner. Before her eyes was a multi-colored
crowd, white blouses, children in blue aprons running around, a game of riding at the ring
in progress, wine shops, cake shops, fried fish stalls, and shooting galleries half hidden
in clumps of verdure, from which arose staves bearing the tricolor; and farther away, in a
bluish haze, a line of tree tops marked the location of a road. To the right she could see
Saint-Denis and the towering basilica; at her left, above a line of houses that were becoming
indistinct, the sun was setting over Saint-Ouen in a disk of cherry-colored flame, and projecting
upon the gray horizon shafts of light like red pillars that seemed to support it tremblingly.
Often a child's balloon would pass swiftly across the dazzling expanse of sky.

They would go down, pass through the gate, walk along by the Lorraine sausage shops, the dealers
in honeycomb, the board cabarets, the verdureless, still unpainted arbors, where a noisy multitude
of men and women and children were eating fried potatoes, mussels and prawns, until they reached
the first field, the first living grass: on the edge of the grass there was a handcart laden
with gingerbread and peppermint lozenges, and a woman selling hot cocoa on a table in the furrow.
A strange country, where everything was mingled--the smoke from the frying-pan and the evening
vapor, the noise of quoits on the head of a cask and the silence shed from the sky, the city
barrier and the idyllic rural scene, the odor of manure and the fresh smell of green wheat,
the great human Fair and Nature! Germinie enjoyed it, however; and, urging Jupillon to go farther,
walking on the very edge of the road, she would constantly step in among the grain to enjoy
the fresh, cool sensation of the stalks against her stockings. When they returned she always
wanted to go upon the slope once more. The sun had by that time disappeared and the sky was
gray below, pink in the centre and blue above. The horizon grew dark; from green the trees
became a dark brown and melted into the sky; the zinc roofs of the wine shops looked as if
the moon were shining upon them, fires began to appear in the darkness, the crowd became gray,
and the white linen took on a bluish tinge. Little by little everything would fade away, be
blotted out, lose its form and color in a dying remnant of colorless daylight, and through
the increasing darkness the voices of a class whose life begins at night, and the voice of
the wine beginning to sing, would arise, mingled with the din of the rattles. Upon the slope
the tops of the tall grass waved to and fro in the gentle breeze. Germinie would make up her
mind to go. She would wend her way homeward, filled with the influence of the falling night,
abandoning herself to the uncertain vision of things half-seen, passing the dark houses, and
finding that everything along her road had turned paler, as it were--wearied by the long walk
over rough roads, and content to be weary and slow and half-fainting, and with a feeling of
peace at her heart.

At the first lighted lanterns on Rue du Château, she would fall from her dream to the pavement.

XIII

Madame Jupillon's face always wore a pleased expression when Germinie appeared; when she kissed
her she was very effusive, when she spoke to her her voice was caressing, when she looked at
her her glance was most amiable. The huge creature's kind heart seemed, when with her, to abandon
itself to the emotion, the affection, the trustfulness of a sort of maternal tenderness. She
took Germinie into her confidence as to her business, as to her woman's secrets, as to the
most private affairs of her life. She seemed to open her heart to her as to a person of her
own blood, whom she desired to make familiar with matters of interest to the family. When she
spoke of the future, she always referred to Germinie as one from whom she was never to be separated,
and who formed a part of the household. Often she allowed certain discreet, mysterious smiles
to escape her, smiles which made it appear that she saw all that was going on and was not angry.
Sometimes, too, when her son was sitting by Germinie's side, she would let her eyes, moist
with a mother's tears, rest upon them, and would embrace them with a glance that seemed to
unite her two children and call down a blessing on their heads.

Without speaking, without ever uttering a word that could be construed as an engagement, without
divulging her thoughts or binding herself in any way, and all the time repeating that her son
was still very young to think of being married, she encouraged Germinie's hopes and illusions
by her whole bearing, her airs of secret indulgence and of complicity, so far as her heart
was concerned; by those meaning silences when she seemed to open to her a mother-in-law's arms.
And displaying all her talents in the way of hypocrisy, drawing upon her hidden mines of sentiment,
her good-natured shrewdness, and the consummate, intricate cunning that fat people possess,
the corpulent matron succeeded in vanquishing Germinie's last resistance by dint of this tacit
assurance and promise of marriage; and she finally allowed the young man's ardor to extort
from her what she believed that she was giving in advance to the husband.

XIV

As Germinie was going down the servant's staircase one day, she heard Adèle's voice calling
her over the banister and telling her to bring her two sous' worth of butter and ten of absinthe.

"Oh! you can sit down a minute, you know you can," said Adèle, when she brought her the absinthe
and the butter. "I never see you now, you'll never come in. Come! you have plenty of time to
be with your old woman. For my part, I couldn't live with an Antichrist's face like hers! So
stay. This is the house without work to-day. There isn't a sou--madame's abed. Whenever there's
no money, she goes to bed, does madame; she stays in bed all day, reading novels. Have some
of this?"--And she offered her her glass of absinthe.--"No? oh! no, you don't drink. You're
very foolish. It's a funny thing not to drink. Say, it would be very nice of you to write me
a little line for my dearie. Hard work, you know. I have told you about it. See, here's madame's
pen--and her paper--it smells good. Are you ready? He's a good fellow, my dear, and no mistake!
He's in the butcher line as I told you. Ah! my word! I mustn't rub him the wrong way! When
he's had a glass of blood after killing his beasts, he's like a madman--and if you're obstinate
with him--Dame! why then he thumps you! But what would you have? He does that to make him strong.
If you could see him thump himself on the breast--blows that would kill an ox, and say: 'That's
a wall, that is!' Ah! he's a gentleman, I tell you! Are you thinking about the letter, eh?
Make it one of the fetching kind. Say nice things to him, you know--and a little sad--he adores
that. At the theatre he doesn't like anything that doesn't make him cry. Look here! Imagine
that you're writing to a lover of your own."

Germinie began to write.

"Say, Germinie! Have you heard? Madame's taken a strange idea into her head. It's a funny thing
about women like her, who can hold their heads up with the greatest of 'em, who can have everything,
hobnob with kings if they choose! And there's nothing to be said--when one is like madame,
you know, when one has such a body as that! And then the way they load themselves down with
finery, with their tralala of dresses and lace everywhere and everything else--how do you suppose
anyone can resist them? And if it isn't a gentleman, if it's someone like us--you can see how
much more all that will catch him; a woman in velvet goes to his brain. Yes, my dear, just
fancy, here's madame gone daft on that gamin of a Jupillon! That's all we needed to make us
die of hunger here!"

Germinie, with her pen in the air over the letter she had begun, looked up at Adèle, devouring
her with her eyes.

"That brings you to a standstill, doesn't it?" said Adèle, sipping her absinthe, her face lighted
up with joy at sight of Germinie's discomposed features. "Oh! it is too absurd, really; but
it's true, 'pon my word it's true. She noticed the gamin on the steps of the shop the other
day, coming home from the races. She's been there two or three times on the pretence of buying
something. She'll probably have some perfumery sent from there--to-morrow, I think.--Bah! it's
sickening, isn't it? It's their affair. Well! what about my letter? Is it what I told you that
makes you so stupid? You played the prude--I didn't know--Oh! yes, yes, now I remember; that's
what it is--What was it you said to me about the little one? I believe you didn't want anyone
to touch him! Idiot!"

At a gesture of denial from Germinie, she continued:

"Nonsense, nonsense! What do I care? The kind of a child that, if you blew his nose, milk would
come out! Thanks! that's not my style. However, that's your business. Come, now for my letter, eh?"

Germinie leaned over the sheet of paper. But she was burning up with fever; the quill cracked
in her nervous fingers. "There," she said, throwing it down after a few seconds, "I don't know
what's the matter with me to-day. I'll write it for you another time."

"As you like, little one--but I rely on you. Come to-morrow, then.--I'll tell you some of madame's
nonsense. We'll have a good laugh at her!"

And, when the door was closed, Adèle began to roar with laughter: it had cost her only a little
blague to unearth Germinie's secret.

XV

So far as young Jupillon was concerned, love was simply the satisfaction of a certain evil
curiosity, which sought, in the knowledge and possession of a woman, the privilege and the
pleasure of despising her. Just emerging from boyhood, the young man had brought to his first
liaison no other ardor, no other flame than the cold instincts of rascality awakened in boys
by vile books, the confidences of their comrades, boarding-school conversation, the first breath
of impurity which debauches desire. The sentiment with which the young man usually regards
the woman who yields to him, the caresses, the loving words, the affectionate attentions with
which he envelops her--nothing of all that existed in Jupillon's case. Woman was to him simply
an obscene image; and a passion for a woman seemed to him desirable as being prohibited, illicit,
vulgar, cynical and amusing--an excellent opportunity for trickery and sarcasm.

Sarcasm--the low, cowardly, despicable sarcasm of the dregs of the people--was the beginning
and the end of this youth. He was a perfect type of those Parisians who bear upon their faces
the mocking scepticism of the great city of blague in which they are born. The smile, the shrewdness
and the mischief of the Parisian physiognomy were always mocking and impertinent in him. Jupillon's
smile had the jovial expression imparted by a wicked mouth, a mouth that was almost cruel at
the corners of the lips, which curled upward and were always twitching nervously. His face
was pale with the pallor that nitric acid strong enough to eat copper gives to the complexion,
and in his sharp, pert, bold features were mingled bravado, energy, recklessness, intelligence,
impudence and all sorts of rascally expressions, softened, at certain times, by a cat-like,
wheedling air. His trade of glove-cutter--he had taken up with that trade after two or three
unsuccessful trials as an apprentice in other crafts--the habit of working in the shop-windows,
of being on exhibition to the passers-by, had given to his whole person the self-assurance
and the dandified airs of a poseur. Sitting in the work-shop on the street, with his white
shirt, his little black cravat à la Colin, and his skin-tight pantaloons, he had adopted an
awkward air of nonchalance, the pretentious carriage and canaille affectations of the workman
who knows he is being stared at. And various little refinements of doubtful taste, the parting
of the hair in the middle and brushing it down over the temples, the low shirt collars that
left the whole neck bare, the striving after the coquettish effects that properly belong to
the other sex, gave him an uncertain appearance, which was made even more ambiguous by his
beardless face, marred only by a faint suggestion of a moustache, and his sexless features
to which passion and ill-temper imparted all the evil quality of a shrewish woman's face. But
in Germinie's eyes all these airs and this Jupillon style were of the highest distinction.

Thus constituted, with nothing lovable about him and incapable of a genuine attachment even
through his passions, Jupillon was greatly embarrassed and bored by this adoration which became
intoxicated with itself, and waxed greater day by day. Germinie wearied him to death. She seemed
to him absurd in her humiliation, and laughable in her devotion. He was weary, disgusted, worn
out with her. He had had enough of her love, enough of her person. And he had no hesitation
about cutting loose from her, without charity or pity. He ran away from her. He failed to keep
the appointments she made. He pretended that he was kept away by accident, by errands to be
done, by a pressure of work. At night, she waited for him and he did not come; she supposed
that he was detained by business: in fact he was at some low billiard hall, or at some ball
at the barrier.

XVI

There was a ball at the Boule-Noire one Thursday. The dancing was in full blast.

The ball-room had the ordinary appearance of modern places of amusement for the people. It
was brilliant with false richness and tawdry splendor. There were paintings there, and tables
at which wine was sold, gilded chandeliers and glasses that held a quartern of brandy, velvet
hangings and wooden benches, the shabbiness and rusticity of an ale-house with the decorations
of a cardboard palace.

Garnet velvet lambrequins with a fringe of gold lace hung at the windows and were economically
copied in paint beneath the mirrors, which were lighted by three-branched candelabra. On the
walls, in large white panels, pastoral scenes by Boucher, surrounded with painted frames, alternated
with Prud'hon's Seasons, which were much astonished to find themselves in such a place; and
above the windows and doors dropsical Loves gamboled among five roses protruding from a pomade
jar of the sort used by suburban hair-dressers. Square pillars, embellished with meagre arabesques,
supported the ceiling in the centre of the hall, where there was a small octagonal stand containing
the orchestra. An oaken rail, waist high, which served as a back to a cheap red bench, enclosed
the dancers. And against this rail, on the outside, were tables painted green and two rows
of benches, surrounding the dance with a café.

In the dancers' enclosure, beneath the fierce glare and the intense heat of the gas, were women
of all sorts, dressed in dark, worn, rumpled woolens, women in black tulle caps, women in black
paletots, women in caracos worn shiny at the seams, women in fur tippets bought of open-air
dealers and in shops in dark alleys. And in the whole assemblage not one of the youthful faces
was set off by a collar, not a glimpse of a white skirt could be seen among the whirling dancers,
not a glimmer of white about these women, who were all dressed in gloomy colors, the colors
of want, to the ends of their unpolished shoes. This absence of linen gave to the ball an aspect
as of poverty in mourning; it imparted to all the faces a touch of gloom and uncleanness, of
lifelessness and earthiness--a vaguely forbidding aspect, in which there was a suggestion of
the Hôtel-Dieu and the Mont-de-Piété!

An old woman in a wig with the hair parted at the side passed in front of the tables, with
a basket filled with pieces of Savoy cake and red apples.

From time to time the dance, in its twisting and turning, disclosed a soiled stocking, the
typical Jewish features of a street pedlar of sponges, red fingers protruding from black mitts,
a swarthy moustached face, an under-petticoat soiled with the mud of night before last, a second-hand-skirt,
stiff and crumpled, of flowered calico, the cast-off finery of some kept mistress.

The men wore paletots, small, soft caps pulled down over their ears, and woolen comforters
untied and hanging down their backs. They invited the women to dance by pulling them by the
cap ribbons that fluttered behind them. Some few, in hats and frockcoats and colored shirts,
had an insolent air of domesticity and a swagger befitting grooms in some great family.

Everybody was jumping and bustling about. The women frisked and capered and gamboled, excited
and stimulated by the spur of bestial pleasure. And in the evolutions of the contra-dance,
one could hear brothel addresses given: Impasse du Dépotoir.

Germinie entered the hall just at the conclusion of a quadrille to the air of La Casquette
du père Bugeaud, in which the cymbals, the sleigh-bells and the drum had infected the dancers
with the giddiness and madness of their uproar. At a glance she embraced the whole room, all
the men leading their partners back to the places marked by their caps: she had been misled;
he was not there, she could not see him. However, she waited. She entered the dancers' enclosure
and sat down on the end of a bench, trying not to seem too much embarrassed. From their linen
caps she judged that the women seated in line beside her were servants like herself: comrades
of her own class alarmed her less than the little brazen-faced hussies, with their hair in
nets and their hands in the pockets of their paletots, who strolled humming about the room.
But soon she aroused hostile attention, even on her bench. Her hat--only about a dozen women
at the ball wore hats--her flounced skirt, the white hem of which could be seen under her dress,
the gold brooch that secured her shawl awakened malevolent curiosity all about her. Glances
and smiles were bestowed upon her that boded her no good. All the women seemed to be asking
one another where this new arrival had come from, and to be saying to one another that she
would take their lovers from them. Young women who were walking about the hall in pairs, with
their arms about one another's waists as if for a waltz, made her lower her eyes as they passed
in front of her, and then went on with a contemptuous shrug, turning their heads to look back
at her.

She changed her place: she was met with the same smiles, the same whispering, the same hostility.
She went to the further end of the hall; all the women looked after her; she felt as if she
were enveloped in malicious, envious glances, from the hem of her dress to the flowers on her
hat. Her face flushed. At times she feared that she should weep. She longed to leave the place,
but she lacked courage to walk the length of the hall all alone.

She began mechanically to watch an old woman who was slowly making the circuit of the hall
with a noiseless step, like a bird of night flying in a circle. A black hat, of the hue of
charred paper, confined her bandeaux of grizzled hair. From her square, high masculine shoulders,
hung a sombre-hued Scotch tartan. When she reached the door, she cast a last glance about the
hall, that embraced everyone therein, with the eye of a vulture seeking in vain for food.

Suddenly there was an outcry: a police officer was ejecting a diminutive youth who tried to
bite his hands and clung to the tables, against which, as he was dragged along, he struck with
a noise like breaking furniture.

As Germinie turned her head she spied Jupillon: he was sitting between two women at a green
table in a window-recess, smoking. One of the two was a tall blonde with a small quantity of
frizzled flaxen hair, a flat, stupid face and round eyes. A red flannel chemise lay in folds
on her back, and she had both hands in the pockets of a black apron which she was flapping
up and down on her dark red skirt. The other, a short, dark creature, whose face was still
red from having been scrubbed with soap, was enveloped as to her head, with the coquetry of
a fishwoman, in a white knitted hood with a blue border.

Jupillon had recognized Germinie. When he saw her rise and approach him, with her eyes fixed
upon his face, he whispered something to the woman in the hood, rested his elbows defiantly
on the table and waited.

"Hallo! you here," he exclaimed when Germinie stood before him, erect, motionless and mute.
"This is a surprise!--Waiter! another bowl!"

And, emptying the bowl of sweetened wine into the two women's glasses, he continued: "Come,
don't make up faces--sit down there."

And, as Germinie did not budge: "Go on! These ladies are friends of mine--ask them!"

"Mélie," said the woman in the hood to the other woman, in a voice like a diseased crow's,
"don't you see? She's monsieur's mother. Make room for the lady if she'd like to drink with us."

Germinie cast a murderous glance at the woman.

"Well! what's the matter?" the woman continued; "that don't suit you, madame, eh? Excuse me!
you ought to have told me beforehand. How old do you suppose she is, Mélie, eh? Sapristi! You
select young ones, my boy, you don't put yourself out!"

Jupillon smiled internally, and simpered and sneered externally. His whole manner displayed
the cowardly delight that evil-minded persons take in watching the suffering of those who suffer
because of loving them.

"I have something to say to you--to you!--not here--outside," said Germinie.

"Much joy to you! Coming, Mélie?" said the woman in the hood, lighting the stub of a cigar
that Jupillon had left on the table beside a piece of lemon.

"What do you want?" said Jupillon, impressed, in spite of himself, by Germinie's tone.

"Come!"

And she walked on ahead of him. As she passed, the people crowded about her, laughing. She
heard voices, broken sentences, subdued hooting.

XVII

Jupillon promised Germinie not to go to the ball again. But he was just beginning to make a
name for himself at La Brididi, among the low haunts near the barrier, the Boule-Noire, the
Reine-Blanche and the Ermitage. He had become one of the dancers who make the guests leave
their seats, who keep a whole roomful of people hanging on the soles of their boots as they
toss them two inches above their heads, and whom the fair dancers of the locality invite to
dance with them and sometimes pay for their refreshment to that end. The ball to him was not
a ball simply; it was a stage, an audience, popularity, applause, the flattering murmur of
his name among the groups of people, an ovation accorded to saltatory glory in the glare of
the reverberators.

On Sunday he did not go to the Boule-Noire; but on the following Thursday he went there again;
and Germinie, seeing plainly enough that she could not prevent him from going, decided to follow
him and to stay there as long as he did. Sitting at a table in the background, in the least
brilliantly lighted corner of the ball-room, she would follow him eagerly with her eyes throughout
the whole contra-dance; and when it was at an end, if he held back, she would go and seize
him, take him almost by force from the hands and caresses of the women who persisted in trying
to pull him back, to detain him by wicked wiles.

As they soon came to know her, the insulting remarks in her neighborhood ceased to be vague
and indistinct and muttered under the breath, as at the first ball. The words were thrown in
her face, the laughter spoke aloud. She was obliged to pass her three hours amid a chorus of
derision that pointed its finger at her, called her by name and cast her age in her face. At
every turn she was forced to submit to the appellation of: old woman! which the young hussies
spat at her over their shoulders as they passed. But they did at least look at her; often,
however, dancing women invited by Jupillon to drink, and brought by him to the table at which
Germinie was, would sit with their elbows on the table and their cheeks resting on their hands,
drinking the bowl of mulled wine for which she paid, apparently unaware that there was another
woman there, crowding into her place as if it were unoccupied, and making no reply when she
spoke to them. Germinie could have killed these creatures whom Jupillon forced her to entertain
and who despised her so utterly that they did not even notice her presence.

The time arrived, when, having endured all she could endure and being sickened by the humiliation
she was forced to swallow, she conceived the idea of dancing herself. She saw no other way
to avoid leaving her lover to others, to keep him by her all the evening, and perhaps to bind
him more closely to her by her success, if she had any chance of succeeding. Throughout a whole
month she worked, in secret, to learn to dance. She rehearsed the figures and the steps. She
forced her body into unnatural attitudes, she wore herself out trying to master the contortions
and the manipulations of the skirt that she saw were applauded. At the end of the month she
made the venture; but everything tended to disconcert her and added to her awkwardness; the
hostility that she could feel in the atmosphere, the smiles of astonishment and pity that played
about the lips of the spectators when she took her place in the dancers' enclosure. She was
so absurd and so laughed at, that she had not the courage to make a second attempt. She buried
herself gloomily in her dark corner, only leaving it to hunt up Jupillon and carry him off,
with the mute violence of a wife dragging her husband out of the wineshop and leading him home
by the arm.

It was soon rumored in the street that Germinie went to these balls, that she never missed
one of them. The fruit woman, at whose shop Adèle had already held forth, sent her son "to
see;" he returned with a confirmation of the rumor, and told of all the petty annoyances to
which Germinie was subjected, but which did not keep her from returning. Thereafter there was
no more doubt in the quarter as to the relations between mademoiselle's servant and Jupillon--relations
which some charitable souls had hitherto persisted in denying. The scandal burst out, and in
a week the poor girl, berated by all the slanderous tongues in the quarter, baptized and saluted
by the vilest names in the language of the streets, fell at a blow from the most emphatically
expressed esteem to the most brutally advertised contempt.

Thus far her pride--and it was very great--had procured for her the respect and consideration
which is bestowed, in the lorette quarters, upon a servant who honestly serves a virtuous mistress.
She had become accustomed to respect and deference and attention. She stood apart from her
comrades. Her unassailable probity, her conduct, as to which not a word could be said, her
confidential relations with mademoiselle, which caused her mistress's honorable character to
be reflected upon her, led the shopkeeper to treat her on a different footing from the other
maids. They addressed her, cap in hand; they always called her Mademoiselle Germinie. They
hurried to wait upon her; they offered her the only chair in the shop when she had to wait.
Even when she contended over prices they were still polite with her and never called her haggler.
Jests that were somewhat too broad were cut short when she appeared. She was invited to the
great banquets, to family parties, and consulted upon business matters.

Everything changed as soon as her relations with Jupillon and her assiduous attendance at the
Boule-Noire were known. The quarter took its revenge for having respected her. The brazen-faced
maids in the house accosted her as one of their own kind. One, whose lover was at Mazas, called
her: "My dear." The men accosted her familiarly, and with all the intimacy of thee and thou
in glance and gesture and tone and touch. The very children on the sidewalk, who were formerly
trained to courtesy politely to her, ran away from her as from a person of whom they had been
told to be afraid. She felt that she was being maligned behind her back, handed over to the
devil. She could not take a step without walking through scorn and receiving a blow from her
shame upon the cheek.

It was a horrible affliction to her. She suffered as if her honor were being torn from her,
shred by shred, and dragged in the gutter. But the more she suffered, the closer she pressed
her love to her heart and clung to him. She bore him no ill-will, she uttered no word of reproach
to him. She attached herself to him by all the tears he caused her pride to shed. And now,
in the street through which she passed but a short time ago, proudly and with head erect, she
could be seen, bent double as if crouching over her fault, hurrying furtively along, with oblique
glances, dreading to be recognized, quickening her pace in front of the shops that swept their
slanders out upon her heels.

XVIII

Jupillon was constantly complaining that he was tired of working for others, that he could
not set up for himself, that he could not find fifteen or eighteen hundred francs in his mother's
purse. He needed no more than that, he said, to hire a couple of rooms on the ground floor
and set up as a glover in a small way. Indeed he was already dreaming of what he might do and
laying out his plans: he would open a shop in the quarter, an excellent quarter for his business,
as it was full of purchasers, and of makers of wretched gloves at five francs. He would soon
add a line of perfumery and cravats to his gloves; and then, when he had made a tidy sum, he
would sell out and take a fine shop on Rue de Richelieu.

Whenever he mentioned the subject Germinie asked him innumerable questions. She wanted to know
everything that was necessary to start in business. She made him tell her the names of the
tools and appurtenances, give her an idea of their prices and where they could be bought. She
questioned him as to his trade and the details of his work so inquisitively and persistently
that Jupillon lost his patience at last and said to her:

"What's all this to you? The work sickens me enough now; don't mention it to me!"

One Sunday she walked toward Montmartre with him. Instead of taking Rue Frochot she turned
into Rue Pigalle.

"Why, this ain't the way, is it?" said Jupillon.

"I know what I'm about," said she, "come on."

She had taken his arm, and she walked on, turning her head slightly away from him so that he
could not see what was taking place on her face. Half way along Rue Fontaine Saint-Georges,
she halted abruptly in front of two windows on the ground floor of a house, and said to him:
"Look!"

She was trembling with joy.

Jupillon looked; he saw between the two windows, on a glistening copper plate:

                    Magasin de Ganterie.

                          JUPILLON.

He saw white curtains at the first window. Through the glass in the other he saw pigeon-holes
and boxes, and, near the window, the little glover's cutting board, with the great shears,
the jar for clippings, and the knife to make holes in the skins in order to stretch them.

"The concierge has your key," she said.

They entered the first room, the shop.

She at once set about showing him everything. She opened the boxes and laughed. Then she pushed
open the door into the other room. "There, you won't be stifled there as you are in the loft
at your mother's. Do you like it? Oh! it isn't handsome, but it's clean. I'd have liked to
give you mahogany. Do you like that little rug by the bed? And the paper--I didn't think of
that----" She put a receipt for the rent in his hand. "See! this is for six months. Dame! you
must go to work right off and earn some money. The few sous I had laid by are all gone. Oh!
let me sit down. You look so pleased--it gives me a turn--it makes my head spin. I haven't
any legs."

And she sank into a chair. Jupillon stooped over her to kiss her.

"Ah! yes, they're not there any longer," she said, seeing that he was looking for her earrings.
"They've gone like my rings. D'ye see, all gone----"

And she showed him her hands, bare of the paltry gems she had worked so long to buy.

"They all went for the easy-chair, you see--but it's all horsehair."

As Jupillon stood in front of her with an embarrassed air, as if he were trying to find words
with which to thank her, she continued:

"Why, you're a funny fellow. What's the matter with you? Ah! it's on that account, is it?"
And she pointed to the bedroom. "You're a stupid! I love you, don't I? Well then?"

Germinie said the words simply, as the heart says sublime things.

XIX

She became enceinte.

At first she doubted, she dared not believe it. But when she was certain of the fact, she was
filled with immeasurable joy, a joy that overflowed her heart. Her happiness was so great and
so overpowering that it stifled at a single stroke the anguish, the fear, the inward trembling
that ordinarily disturb the maternity of unmarried women and poisons their anticipations of
childbirth, the divine hope that lives and moves within them. The thought of the scandal caused
by the discovery of her liaison, of the outcry in the quarter, the idea of the abominable thing
that had always made her think of suicide: dishonor,--even the fear of being detected by mademoiselle
and dismissed by her--nothing of all this could cast a shadow on her felicity. The child that
she expected allowed her to see nothing but it, as if she had it already in her arms before
her; and, hardly attempting to conceal her condition, she bore her woman's shame almost proudly
through the streets, exulting and radiant in the thought that she was to be a mother.

She was unhappy only because she had spent all her savings, and was not only without money
but had been paid several months' wages in advance by her mistress. She bitterly deplored having
to receive her child in a poor way. Often, as she passed through Rue Saint-Lazare, she would
stop in front of a linen-draper's, in whose windows were displayed stores of rich baby-linen.
She would devour with her eyes the pretty, dainty flowered garments, the piqué bibs, the long
short-waisted dresses trimmed with English embroidery, the whole doll-like cherub's costume.
A terrible longing,--the longing of a pregnant woman,--to break the glass and steal it all,
would come upon her: the clerks standing behind the display framework became accustomed to
seeing her take up her station there and would laughingly point her out to one another.

Again, at intervals, amid the happiness that overflowed her heart, amid the ecstasy that exalted
her being, another disturbing thought passed through her mind. She would ask herself how the
father would welcome his child. Two or three times she had attempted to tell him of her condition
but had not dared. At last, one day, seeing that his face wore the expression she had awaited
so long as a preliminary to telling him everything, an expression in which there was a touch
of affection, she confessed to him, blushing hotly and as if asking his forgiveness, what it
was that made her so happy.

"That's all imagination!" said Jupillon.

And when she had assured him that it was not imagination and that she was positively five months
advanced in pregnancy: "Just my luck!" the young man rejoined. "Thanks!" And he swore. "Would
you mind telling me who's going to feed the sparrow?"

"Oh! never you fear! it sha'n't suffer, I'll look out for that. And then it'll be so pretty!
Don't be afraid, no one shall know anything about it. I'll fix myself up. See! the last part
of the time I'll walk like this, with my head back--I won't wear any petticoats, and I'll pull
myself in--you'll see! Nobody shall notice anything, I tell you. Just think of it! a little
child of our own!"

"Well, as long as it's so, it's so, eh?" said the young man.

"Say," ventured Germinie, timidly, "suppose you should tell your mother?"

"Ma? Oh! no, I rather think not. You must lie in first. After that we'll take the brat to the
house. It will give her a start, and perhaps she'll consent without meaning to."

XX

Twelfth Night arrived. It was the day on which Mademoiselle de Varandeuil gave a grand dinner-party
regularly every year. She invited all the children of her own family or her old friends' families,
great and small. The small suite would hardly hold them all. They were obliged to put part
of the furniture on the landing, and a table was set in each of the two rooms which formed
mademoiselle's whole suite. For the children, that day was a great festival to which they looked
forward for a week. They came running up the stairway behind the pastry-cook's men. At table
they ate too much without being scolded. At night, they were unwilling to go to bed, they climbed
on the chairs and made a racket that always gave Mademoiselle de Varandeuil a sick headache
the next day; but she bore them no grudge therefor: she had had the full enjoyment of a genuine
grandmother's fête, in listening to them, looking at them, tying around their necks the white
napkins that made them look so rosy. And not for anything in the world would she have failed
to give this dinner-party, which filled her old maid's apartments with the fair-haired little
imps of Satan, and brought thither, in a single day, an atmosphere of activity and youth and
laughter that lasted a whole year.

Germinie was preparing the dinner. She was whipping cream in an earthen bowl on her knees,
when suddenly she felt the first pains. She looked at her face in the bit of a broken mirror
that she had above her kitchen dresser, and saw that she was pale. She went down to Adèle:
"Give me your mistress's rouge," she said. And she put some on her cheeks. Then she went up
again, and, refusing to listen to the voice of her suffering, finished cooking the dinner.
It had to be served, and she served it. At dessert, she leaned against the furniture and grasped
the backs of chairs as she passed the plates, hiding her torture with the ghastly set smile
of people whose entrails are writhing.

"How's this, are you sick?" said her mistress, looking sharply at her.

"Yes, mademoiselle, a little--it may be the charcoal or the hot kitchen."

"Go to bed--we don't need you any more, and you can clean up to-morrow."

She went down to Adèle once more.

"It's come," she said; "call a cab quick. It was Rue de la Huchette where you said your midwife
lives, wasn't it? opposite a copper planer's? Haven't you a pen and paper?"

And she sat down to write a line to her mistress. She told her that she was too ill to work,
that she had gone to the hospital, but would not tell her where, because she would fatigue
herself coming to see her; that she would come back within a week.

"There you are!" said Adèle, all out of breath, giving her the number of the cab.

"I can stay there," said Germinie; "not a word to mademoiselle. That's all. Swear you won't
say a word to her!"

She was descending the stairs when she met Jupillon.

"Hallo!" said he, "where are you going? going out?"

"I am going to lie in----It took me during the day. There was a great dinner-party here----Oh!
but it was hard work! Why do you come here? I told you never to come; I don't want you to!"

"Because----I'll tell you----because just now I absolutely must have forty francs. 'Pon my
word, I must."

"Forty francs! Why I have just that for the midwife!"

"That's hard luck----look out! What do you want to do?" And he offered his arm to assist her.
"Cristi! I'm going to have hard work to get 'em all the same."

He had opened the carriage door.

"Where do you want him to take you?"

"To La Bourbe," said Germinie. And she slipped the forty francs into his hand.

"No, no," said Jupillon.

"Oh! nonsense----there or somewhere else! Besides, I have seven francs left."

The cab started away.

Jupillon stood for a moment motionless on the sidewalk, looking at the two napoleons in his
hand. Then he ran after the cab, stopped it, and said to Germinie through the window:

"At least, I can go with you?"

"No, I am in too much pain, I'd rather be alone," she replied, writhing on the cushions of the cab.

After an endless half hour, the cab stopped on Rue de Port-Royal, in front of a black door
surmounted by a violet lantern, which announced to such medical students as happened to pass
through the street that there was that night, and at that moment, the curious and interesting
spectacle of a difficult labor in progress at La Maternité.

The driver descended from his box and rang. The concierge, assisted by a female attendant,
took Germinie's arms and led her up-stairs to one of the four beds in the salle d'accouchement.
Once in bed, her pains became somewhat less excruciating. She looked about her, saw the other
beds, all empty, and, at the end of the immense room, a huge country-house fireplace in which
a bright fire was blazing, and in front of which, hanging upon iron bars, sheets and cloths
and bandages were drying.

Half an hour later, Germinie gave birth to a little girl. Her bed was moved into another room.
She had been there several hours, lost in the blissful after-delivery weakness which follows
the frightful agony of childbirth, happy and amazed to find that she was still alive, swimming
in a sea of blessed relief and deeply penetrated with the joy of having created. Suddenly a
loud cry: "I am dying!" caused her to turn her eyes in the direction from which it came: she
saw one of her neighbors throw her arms around the neck of one of the assistant nurses, fall
back almost instantly, move a moment under the clothes, then lie perfectly still. Almost at
the same instant, another shriek arose from a bed on the other side, a horrible, piercing,
terrified shriek, as of one who sees death approaching: it was a woman calling the young assistant,
with desperate gestures; the assistant ran to her, leaned over her, and fell in a dead faint
upon the floor.

Thereupon silence reigned once more; but between the two dead bodies and the half-dead assistant,
whom the cold floor did not restore to consciousness for more than an hour, Germinie and the
other women who were still alive in the room lay quiet, not daring even to ring the bell that
hung beside each bed to call for help.

Thereafter La Maternité was the scene of one of those terrible puerperal epidemics which breathe
death upon human fecundity, of one of those cases of atmospheric poisoning which empty, in
a twinkling and by whole rows, the beds of women lately delivered, and which once caused the
closing of La Clinique. They believed that it was a visitation of the plague, a plague that
turns the face black in a few hours, carries all before it and snatches up the youngest and
the strongest, a plague that issues from the cradle--the Black Plague of mothers! All about
Germinie, at all hours, especially at night, women were dying such deaths as the milk-fever
causes, deaths that seemed to violate all nature's laws, agonizing deaths, accompanied by wild
shrieks and troubled by hallucinations and delirium, death agonies that compelled the application
of the strait-waistcoat, death agonies that caused the victims to leap suddenly from their
beds, carrying the clothes with them, and causing the whole room to shudder at the thought
that they were dead bodies from the amphitheatre! Life departed as if it were torn from the
body. The very disease assumed a ghastly shape and monstrous aspect. The bedclothes were lifted
in the centre by the swelling caused by peritonitis, producing a vague, horrifying effect in
the lamplight.

For five days Germinie, lying swathed and bandaged in her bed, closing her eyes and ears as
best she could, had the strength to combat all these horrors, and yielded to them only at long
intervals. She was determined to live, and she clung to her strength by thinking of her child
and of mademoiselle. But, on the sixth day, her energy was exhausted, her courage forsook her.
A cold wave flowed into her heart. She said to herself that it was all over. The hand that
death lays upon one's shoulder, the presentiment of death, was already touching her. She felt
the first breath of the epidemic, the belief that she was its destined victim, and the impression
that she was already half-possessed by it. Although unresigned, she succumbed. Her life, vanquished
beforehand, hardly made an effort to struggle. At that crisis a head bent over her pillow,
like a ray of light.

It was the head of the youngest of the pupil-assistants, a fair head, with long golden locks
and blue eyes so soft and sweet that the dying saw heaven opening its gates therein. When they
saw her, delirious women said: "Look! the Blessed Virgin!"

"My child," she said to Germinie, "you must ask for your discharge at once. You must go away
from here. You must dress warmly. You must wrap up well. As soon as you're at home and in bed,
you must take a hot draught of something or other. You must try to take a sweat. Then, it won't
do you any harm. But go away from here. It wouldn't be healthy for you here to-night," she
said, glancing around at the beds. "Don't say that I told you to go: you would get me discharged
if you should."

XXI

Germinie recovered in a few days. The joy and pride of having given birth to a tiny creature
in whom her flesh was mingled with the flesh of the man she loved, the bliss of being a mother,
saved her from the natural results of a confinement in which she did not receive proper care.
She was restored to health and had an apparent pleasure in living that her mistress had never
before seen her manifest.

Every Sunday, no matter what the weather might be, she left the house about eleven o'clock;
mademoiselle believed that she went to see a friend in the country, and was delighted that
her maid derived so much benefit from these days passed in the open air. Germinie would capture
Jupillon, who allowed himself to be taken in tow without too much resistance, and they would
start for Pommeuse where the child was, and where a good breakfast ordered by the mother awaited
them. Once in the carriage on the Mulhouse railway, Germinie would not speak or reply when
spoken to. She would lean out of the window, and all her thoughts seemed to be upon what lay
before her. She gazed, as if her longing were striving to outrun the steam. The train would
hardly have stopped before she had leaped out, tossed her ticket to the ticket-taker, and started
at a run on the Pommeuse road, leaving Jupillon behind. She drew nearer and nearer, she could
see the house, she was there: yes, there was the child! She would pounce upon her, snatch her
from the nurse's arms with jealous hands--a mother's hands!--hug her, strain her to her heart,
kiss her, devour her with kisses and looks and smiles! She would gaze admiringly at her for
an instant and then, distraught with joy, mad with love, would cover her with kisses to the
tips of her little bare toes. Breakfast would be served. She would sit at the table with the
child on her knees and eat nothing: she had kissed her so much that she had not yet looked
at her, and she would begin to seek out points of resemblance to themselves in the little one.
One feature was his, another hers:--"She has your nose and my eyes. Her hair will be like yours
in time. It will curl! Look, those are your hands--she is all you." And for hours she would
continue the inexhaustible and charming prattle of a woman who is determined to give a man
his share of their daughter. Jupillon submitted to it all with reasonably good grace, thanks
to divers three-sou cigars Germinie always produced from her pocket and gave to him one by
one. Then he had found a means of diversion; the Morin flowed at the foot of the garden. Jupillon
was a true Parisian: he loved to fish with a pole and line.

And when summer came they stayed there all day, at the foot of the garden, on the bank of the
stream--Jupillon on a laundry board resting on two stakes, pole in hand, and Germinie sitting,
with the child in her skirts, under the medlar tree that overhung the stream. On pleasant days,
the sun poured down upon the broad sparkling current, from which beams of light arose as from
a mirror. It was like a display of fireworks from the sky and the stream, amid which Germinie
would hold the little girl upon her feet and let her trample upon her with her little bare
pink legs, in her short baby dress, her skin shimmering in spots in the sunlight, her flesh
mottled with sunbeams like the flesh of angels Germinie had seen in pictures. She had a divinely
sweet sensation when the little one, with the active hands of children that cannot talk, touched
her chin and mouth and cheeks, persisted in putting her fingers in her eyes, rested them playfully
on the lids, and kept them moving over her whole face, tickling and tormenting her with the
dear little digits that seem to grope in the dark for a mother's features: it was as if her
child's life and warmth were wandering over her face. From time to time she would bestow half
of her smile on Jupillon over the little one's head, and would call to him: "Do look at her!"

Then the child would fall asleep with the open mouth that laughs in sleep. Germinie would lean
over her and listen to her breathing in repose. And, soothed by the peaceful respiration, she
would gradually forget herself as she gazed dreamily at the poor abode of her happiness, the
rustic garden, the apple-trees with their leaves covered with little yellow snails and the
red-cheeked apples on the southern limbs, the poles, at whose feet the beanstalks, twisted
and parched, were beginning to climb, the square of cabbages, the four sunflowers in the little
circle in the centre of the path; and, close beside her, on the edge of the stream, the patches
of grass covered with dog's mercury, the white heads of the nettles against the wall, the washerwomen's
boxes, the bottles of lye and the bundle of straw scattered about by the antics of a puppy
just out of the water. She gazed and dreamed. She thought of the past, having her future on
her knees. With the grass and the trees and the river that were before her eyes, she reconstructed,
in memory, the rustic garden of her rustic childhood. She saw again the two stones reaching
down to the water, from which her mother, when she was a little child, used to wash her feet
before putting her to bed in summertime.

"Look you, Père Remalard," said Jupillon from his board, on one of the hottest days in August,
to the peasant who was watching him,--"do you know they won't bite at the red worm worth a sou?"

"You must try the gentle," rejoined the peasant sententiously.

"All right, I'll have my revenge with the gentle! Père Remalard, you must get some calf's lights
Thursday. You hang 'em up in that tree, and Sunday we'll see."

On the Sunday Jupillon had miraculous success with his fishing, and Germinie heard the first
syllable issue from her daughter's mouth.

XXII

On Wednesday morning, when she came downstairs, Germinie found a letter for herself. In that
letter, written on the back of a laundry receipt, the Remalard woman informed her that her
child had fallen sick almost immediately after her departure; that she had grown steadily worse;
that she had consulted the doctor; that he said some insect had stung the child; that she had
been to him a second time; that she did not know what more to do; that she had had pilgrimages
made for her. The letter concluded thus: "If you could see how troubled I am for your little
one--if you could see how good she is when she isn't suffering!"

This letter produced upon Germinie the effect of a push from behind. She went out and instinctively
walked toward the railroad that would take her to her little one. Her hair was uncombed and
she was in her slippers, but she did not think of that. She must see her child, she must see
her instantly. Then she would come back. She thought of mademoiselle's breakfast for a moment,
then forgot it. Suddenly, half-way to the station, she saw a clock at a cab office and noticed
the hour: she remembered that there was no train at that time. She retraced her steps, saying
to herself that she would hurry the breakfast and then make some excuse to be given her liberty
for the rest of the day. But when the breakfast was served she could find none: her mind was
so full of her child that she could not invent a falsehood; her imagination was benumbed. And
then, if she had spoken, if she had made the request, she would have betrayed herself; she
could feel the words upon her lips: "I want to go and see my child!" At night she dared not
make her escape; mademoiselle had been a little indisposed the night before; she was afraid
that she might need her.

The next morning when she entered mademoiselle's room with a fable she had invented during
the night, all ready to ask for leave of absence, mademoiselle said to her, looking up from
a letter that had just been sent up to her from the lodge: "Ah! my old friend De Belleuse wants
you for the whole day to-day, to help her with her preserves. Come, give me my two eggs, post-haste,
and off with you. Eh? what! doesn't that suit you? What's the matter?"

"With me? why nothing at all!" Germinie found strength to say.

All that endless day she passed standing over hot stewpans and sealing up jars, in the torture
known only to those whom the chances of life detain at a distance from the sick bed of those
dear to them. She suffered such heart-rending agony as those unhappy creatures suffer who cannot
go where their anxiety calls them, and who, in the extremity of despair caused by separation
and uncertainty, constantly imagine that death will come in their absence.

As she received no letter Thursday evening and none Friday morning, she took courage. If the
little one were growing worse the nurse would have written her. The little one was better:
she imagined her saved, cured. Children are forever coming near dying, and they get well so
quickly! And then hers was strong. She decided to wait, to be patient until Sunday, which was
only forty-eight hours away, deceiving the remainder of her fears with the superstitions that
say yes to hope, persuading herself that her daughter had "escaped," because the first person
she met in the morning was a man, because she had seen a red horse in the street, because she
had guessed that a certain person would turn into a certain street, because she had ascended
a flight of stairs in so many strides.

On Saturday, in the morning, when she entered Mère Jupillon's shop, she found her weeping hot
tears over a lump of butter that she was covering with a moist cloth.

"Ah! it's you, is it?" said Mère Jupillon. "That poor charcoal woman! See, I'm actually crying
over her! She just went away from here. You don't know--they can't get their faces clean in
their trade with anything but butter. And here's her love of a daughter--she's at death's door,
you know, the dear child. That's the way it is with us! Ah! mon Dieu, yes!--Well, as I was
saying, she said to her just now like this: 'Mamma, I want you to wash my face in butter right
away--for the good God.'"

And Mère Jupillon began to sob.

Germinie had fled. All that day she was unable to keep still. Again and again she went up to
her chamber to prepare the few things she proposed to take to her little one the next day,
to dress her cleanly, to make a little special toilet for her in honor of her recovery. As
she went down in the evening to put Mademoiselle to bed, Adèle handed her a letter that she
had found for her below.

XXIII

Mademoiselle had begun to undress, when Germinie entered her bedroom, walked a few steps, dropped
upon a chair, and almost immediately, after two or three long-drawn, deep, heart-breaking sighs,
mademoiselle saw her throw herself backward, wringing her hands, and at last roll from the
chair to the floor. She tried to lift her up, but Germinie was shaken by such violent convulsions
that the old woman was obliged to let the frantic body fall again upon the floor; for all the
limbs, which were for a moment contracted and rigid, lashed out to right and left, at random,
with the sharp report of the trigger of a rifle, and threw down whatever they came in contact
with. At mademoiselle's shrieks on the landing, a maid ran to a doctor's office near by but
did not find him; four other women employed in the house assisted mademoiselle to lift Germinie
up and carry her to the bed in her mistress's room, on which they laid her after cutting her
corset lacings.

The terrible convulsions, the nervous contortions of the limbs, the snapping of the tendons
had ceased; but her neck and her breast, which was uncovered where her dress was unbuttoned,
moved up and down as if waves were rising and falling under the skin, and the rustling of the
skirts showed that the movement extended to her feet. Her head thrown back, her face flushed,
her eyes full of melancholy tenderness, of the patient agony we see in the eyes of the wounded,
the great veins clearly marked under her chin, Germinie, breathing hard and paying no heed
to questions, raised her hands to her neck and throat and clawed at them; she seemed to be
trying to tear out the sensation of something rising and falling within her. In vain did they
make her inhale ether and drink orange-flower water; the waves of grief that flowed through
her body did not cease their action; and her face continued to wear the same expression of
gentle melancholy and sentimental anxiety, which seemed to place the suffering of the heart
above the suffering of the flesh in every feature. For a long time everything seemed to wound
her senses and to produce a painful effect upon them--the bright light, the sound of voices,
the odor of the things about her. At last, after an hour or more, a deluge of tears suddenly
poured from her eyes and put an end to the terrible crisis. After that there was nothing more
than an occasional convulsive shudder in the overburdened body, soon quieted by weariness and
by general prostration. It was possible to carry Germinie to her own room.

The letter Adèle handed her contained the news of her daughter's death.

XXIV

As a result of this crisis, Germinie fell into a state of dumb, brutish sorrow. For months
she was insensible to everything; for months, completely possessed and absorbed by the thought
of the little creature that was no more, she carried her child's death in her entrails as she
had carried her life. Every evening, when she went up to her chamber, she took the poor darling's
little cap and dress from the trunk at the foot of her bed. She would gaze at them and touch
them; she would lay them out on the bed; she would sit for hours weeping over them, kissing
them, talking to them, saying the things that a mother's bitter sorrow is wont to say to a
little daughter's ghost.

While weeping for her daughter the unhappy creature wept for herself as well. A voice whispered
to her that she was saved had the child lived; that to have that child to love was her Providence;
that all that she dreaded in herself would be expended upon that dear head and be sanctified
there--her affections, her unreasoning impulses, her ardor, all the passions of her nature.
It seemed to her that she had felt her mother's heart soothing and purifying her woman's heart.
In her daughter she saw a sort of celestial vision that would redeem her and make her whole,
a little angel of deliverance as it were, issuing from her errors to fight for her and rescue
her from the evil influences which pursued her and by which she sometimes thought that she
was possessed.

When she began to recover from the first prostration of despair, when, as the consciousness
of life and the perception of objects returned to her, she looked about her with eyes that
saw, she was aroused from her grief by a more poignant cause of bitterness of spirit.

Madame Jupillon, who had become too stout and too heavy to do what it was necessary for her
to do at the creamery, notwithstanding all the assistance rendered by Germinie, had sent to
her province for a niece of hers. She was the embodiment of the blooming youth of the country,
a woman in whom there was still something of the child, active and vivacious, with black eyes
full of sunlight, lips as round and red as cherries, the summer heat of her province in her
complexion, the warmth of perfect health in her blood. Impulsive and ingenuous as she was,
the girl had, at first, drawn near to her cousin, simply and naturally, obeying the law of
attraction that draws the young toward the young. She had met his friendly advances with the
immodesty of innocence, artless effrontery, the liberties taught by life in the country, the
happy folly of a nature abounding in high spirits, and with all sorts of ignorant hardihood,
unblushing ingenuousness and rustic coquetry, against which her cousin's vanity was without
means of defence. The child's presence deprived Germinie of all hope of repose. Mere girl as
she was, she wounded her every minute in the day by her presence, her touch, her caresses,
everything in her amorous body that spoke of love. Her preoccupation with Jupillon, the work
that kept them constantly together, the provincial wonderment that she constantly exhibited,
the half-confidences she allowed to come to her lips when the young man had gone, her gayety,
her jests, her healthy good-humor--everything helped to exasperate Germinie and to arouse a
sullen wrath within her; everything wounded that jealous heart, so jealous that the very animals
caused it a bitter pang by seeming to love someone whom it loved.

She dared not speak to Mère Jupillon and denounce the little one to her, for fear of betraying
herself; but whenever she found herself alone with Jupillon she vented her feelings in recriminations,
complaints and quarrels. She would remind him of an incident, a word, something he had done
or said, some answer he had made, a trifle forgotten by him but still bleeding in her heart.

"Are you mad?" Jupillon would say to her; "a slip of a girl!"--"A slip of a girl, eh? nonsense!--when
she has such eyes that all the men stare at her in the street! I went out with her the other
day--I was ashamed--I don't know how she did it, but we were followed by a gentleman all the
time."--"Well, what if you were? She's a pretty girl, you know!"--"Pretty! pretty!" And at
that word Germinie would hurl herself, figuratively speaking, at the girl's face, and claw
it to pieces with frantic words.

Often she would end by saying to Jupillon: "Look here! you love her!"--"Well! what then?" he
would retort, highly entertained by these disputes, by the opportunity to watch the antics
of this fierce wrath which he fanned with pretended sulkiness, and by the excitement of trifling
with the woman, whom he saw to be half insane under his sarcasms and his indifference, stumbling
wildly about and running her head against stone walls in the first paroxysms of madness.

As a result of these scenes, repeated almost every day, a revolution took place in that excitable,
extreme character, which knew no middle course, in that heart in which the most violent passions
were constantly clashing. Love, in which poison had long been at work, became decomposed and
changed to hate. Germinie began to detest her lover and to seek out every possible pretext
for hating him more. And her thoughts recurred to her daughter, to the loss of her child, to
the cause of her death, and she persuaded herself that he had killed her. She looked upon him
as an assassin. She conceived a horror of him, she avoided him, fled from him as from the evil
genius of her life, with the terror that one has of a person who is one's Bane!

XXV

One morning, after a night passed by her in turning over and over in her mind all her despairing,
hate-ridden thoughts, Germinie went to the creamery for her four sous' worth of milk and found
in the back-shop three or four maids from the neighborhood engaged in "taking an eye-opener."
They were seated at a table, gossiping and sipping liqueurs.

"Aha!" said Adèle, striking the table with her glass; "you here already, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil?"

"What's this?" said Germinie, taking Adèle's glass; "I'd like some myself."

"Are you so thirsty as all that this morning? Brandy and absinthe, that's all!--my soldier
boy's tap, you know,--he never drank anything else. It's a little stiff, eh?"

"Ah! yes," said Germinie, contracting her lips and winking like a child who is given a glass
of liqueur with the dessert at a grand dinner-party.

"It's good, all the same." Her spirits rose. "Madame Jupillon, let's have the bottle--I'll pay."

And she tossed money on the table. After the third glass, she cried: "I am tight!" And she
roared with laughter.

Mademoiselle de Varandeuil had gone out that morning to collect her half-yearly income. When
she returned at eleven o'clock, she rang once, twice! no one came. "Ah!" she said to herself,
"she must have gone down." She opened the door with her key, went to her bedroom and looked
in: the mattress and bedclothes lay in a heap on two chairs, and Germinie was stretched out
across the straw under-mattress, sleeping heavily, like a log, in the utterly relaxed condition
following a sudden attack of lethargy.

At the noise made by mademoiselle, Germinie sprang to her feet and passed her hand over her
eyes.--"Yes?" she said, as if some one had called her; her eyes were wandering.

"What's happened?" said Mademoiselle de Varandeuil in alarm; "did you fall? Is anything the
matter with you?"

"With me? no," Germinie replied; "I fell asleep. What time is it? Nothing's the matter. Ah!
what a fool!"

And she began to shake the mattress, turning her back to her mistress to hide the flush of
intoxication on her face.

XXVI

One Sunday morning Jupillon was dressing in the room Germinie had furnished for him. His mother
was sitting by, gazing at him with the wondering pride expressed in the eyes of mothers among
the common people in presence of a son who dresses like a monsieur.

"You're dressed up like the young man on the first floor!" she said. "I should think it was
his coat. I don't mean to say fine things don't look well on you, too----"

Jupillon, intent upon tying his cravat, made no reply.

"You'll play the deuce with the poor girls to-day!" continued Mère Jupillon, giving to her
voice an accent of insinuating sweetness: "Look you, bibi, let me tell you this, you great
bad boy: if a young woman goes wrong, so much the worse for her! that's their look-out. You're
a man, aren't you? you've got the age and the figure and everything. I can't always keep you
in leading-strings. So, I said to myself, as well one as another. That one will do. And I fixed
her so that she wouldn't see anything. Yes, Germinie would do, as you seemed to like her. That
prevented you from wasting your money on bad women--and then I didn't see anything out of the
way in the girl till now. But now it won't do at all. They're telling stories in the quarter--a
heap of horrible things about us. A pack of vipers! We're above all that, I know. When one
has been an honest woman all her life, thank God! But you never know what will happen--mademoiselle
would only have to put the end of her nose into her maid's affairs. Why there's the law--the
bare idea gives me a turn. What do you say to that, bibi, eh?"

"Dame, mamma,--whatever you please."

"Ah! I knew you loved your dear darling mamma!" exclaimed the monstrous creature embracing
him. "Well! invite her to dinner to-night. You can get up two bottles of our Lunel--at two
francs--the heady kind. And be sure she comes. Make eyes at her, so that she'll think to-day's
the great day. Put on your fine gloves: they'll make you look more dignified."

Germinie arrived at seven o'clock, happy and bright and hopeful, her head filled with blissful
dreams by the mysterious air with which Jupillon delivered his mother's invitation. They dined
and drank and made merry. Mère Jupillon began to cast glances expressive of deep emotion, drowned
in tears, upon the couple sitting opposite her. When the coffee was served, she said, as if
for the purpose of being left alone with Germinie: "Bibi, you know you have an errand to do
this evening."

Jupillon went out. Madame Jupillon, as she sipped her coffee, turned to Germinie the face of
a mother seeking to learn her daughter's secret, and, in her indulgence, forgiving her in advance
of her confession. For a moment the two women sat thus, silent, one waiting for the other to
speak, the other with the cry of her heart on her lips. Suddenly Germinie rushed from her chair
into the stout woman's arms.

"If you knew, Madame Jupillon!"

She talked and wept and embraced her all at once. "Oh! you won't be angry with me! Well! yes,
I love him--I've had a child by him. It's true, I love him. Three years ago----"

At every word Madame Jupillon's face became sterner and more icy. She coldly pushed Germinie
away, and in her most doleful voice, with an accent of lamentation and hopeless desolation,
she began, like a person who is suffocating: "Oh! my God--you!--tell me such things as that!--me!--his
mother!--to my face! My God, must it be? My son--a child--an innocent child! You've had the
face to ruin him for me! And now you tell me that you did it! No, it ain't possible, my God!
And I had such confidence. There's nothing worth living for. There's no trusting anybody in
this world! All the same, mademoiselle, I wouldn't ever 'a' believed it of you. Dame! such
things give me a turn. Ah! this upsets me completely. I know myself, and I'm quite likely to
be sick after this----"

"Madame Jupillon! Madame Jupillon!" Germinie murmured in an imploring tone, half dead with
shame and grief on the chair on which she had fallen. "I beg you to forgive me. It was stronger
than I was. And then I thought--I believed----"

"You believed! Oh! my God; you believed! What did you believe? That you'd be my son's wife,
eh? Ah! Lord God! is it possible, my poor child?"

And adopting a more and more plaintive and lamentable tone as the words she hurled at Germinie
cut deeper and deeper, Mère Jupillon continued: "But, my poor girl, you must have a reason,
let's hear it. What did I always tell you? That it would be all right if you'd been born ten
years earlier. Let's see, your date was 1820, you told me, and now it's '49. You're getting
on toward thirty, you see, my dear child. I say! it makes me feel bad to say that to you--I'd
so much rather not hurt you. But a body only has to look at you, my poor young lady. What can
I do? It's your age--your hair--I can lay my finger in the place where you part it."

"But," said Germinie, in whose heart black wrath was beginning to rumble, "what about what
your son owes me? My money? The money I took out of the savings bank, the money I borrowed
for him, the money I----"

"Money? he owes you money? Oh! yes, what you lent him to begin business with. Well! what about
it? Do you think we're thieves? Does anyone want to cheat you out of your old money, although
there wasn't any paper--I know it because the other day--it just occurs to me--that honest
man of a child of mine wanted to write it down for fear he might die. But the next minute we're
pickpockets, as glib as you please! Oh! my God, it's hardly worth while living in such times
as these! Ah! I'm well paid for getting attached to you! But I see through it now. You're a
politician, you are! You wanted to pay yourself with my son, for his whole life! Excuse me!
No, thank you! It costs less to give back your money! A café waiter's leavings! my poor dear
boy! God preserve him from it!"

Germinie had snatched her shawl and hat from the hook and was out of doors.

XXVII

Mademoiselle was sitting in her large armchair at the corner of the fireplace, where a few
live embers were still sleeping under the ashes. Her black cap was pulled down over her wrinkled
forehead almost to her eyes. Her black dress, cut in the shape of a child's frock, was draped
in scanty folds about her scanty body, showing the location of every bone, and fell straight
from her knees to the floor. She wore a small black shawl crossed on her breast and tied behind
her back, as they are worn by little girls. Her half-open hands were resting on her hips, with
the palms turned outward--thin, old woman's hands, awkward and stiff, and swollen with gout
at the knuckles and finger joints. Sitting in the huddled, crouching posture that compels old
people to raise their heads to look at you and speak to you, she seemed to be buried in all
that mass of black, whence nothing emerged but her face, to which preponderance of bile had
imparted the yellow hue of old ivory, and the flashing glance of her brown eyes. One who saw
her thus, her bright, sparkling eyes, the meagre body, the garb of poverty and the noble air
with which she bore all the burdens of age, might well have fancied that he was looking at
a fairy on the stage of the Petits-Ménages.

Germinie was by her side. The old lady began:

"The list is still under the door, eh, Germinie?"

"Yes, mademoiselle."

"Do you know, my girl," Mademoiselle de Varandeuil resumed, after a pause, "do you know that
when one is born in one of the finest houses on Rue Royale--when one has been in a fair way
to own the Grand and Petit-Charolais--when one has almost had the Château of Clichy-la-Garenne
for a country house--and when it took two servants to carry the silver platter on which the
joint was served at your grandmother's--do you know that it takes no small amount of philosophy"--and
mademoiselle with difficulty raised a hand to her shoulder--"to see yourself end like this,
in this devilish nest of rheumatism, where, in spite of all the list in the world, you can't
keep out of draughts.--That's it, stir up the fire a little."

She put out her feet toward Germinie, who was kneeling in front of the fireplace, and laughingly
placed them under her nose: "Do you know that that takes no small amount of philosophy--to
wear stockings out at heel! Simpleton! I'm not scolding you; I know well enough that you can't
do everything. So you might as well have a woman come to do the mending. That's not very much
to do. Why don't you speak to that little girl that came here last year? She had a face that
I remember."

"Oh! she's black as a mole, mademoiselle."

"Bah! I knew it. In the first place you never think well of anybody. That isn't true, you say?
Why, wasn't she a niece of Mère Jupillon's? We might take her for one or two days a week."

"That hussy shall never set foot here."

"Nonsense, more fables! You're a most astonishing creature, to adore people and then not want
to see them again. What has she done to you?"

"She's a lost creature, I tell you!"

"Bah! what does my linen care for that?"

"But, mademoiselle."

"All right! find me someone else then. I don't care about her particularly. But find me someone."

"Oh! the women that come in like that don't do any work. I'll mend your clothes. You don't
need any one."

"You!--Oh! if we have to rely on your needle!" said mademoiselle jocosely; "and then, will
Mère Jupillon ever give you the time?"

"Madame Jupillon? Oh! for all the dust I shall ever leave in her house again!"

"Hoity-toity! What's that? She too! so she's on your black books, is she? Oho! hurry up and
make another acquaintance, or else, bon Dieu de Dieu! we shall have some bad days here!"

XXVIII

The winter of that year should certainly have assured Mademoiselle de Varandeuil a share of
paradise hereafter. She had to undergo the reflex action of her maid's chagrin, her nervous
irritability, the vengeance of her embittered, contradictory moods, which the approaching spring
would ere long infect with that species of malignant madness which the critical season, the
travail of nature and the restless, disturbing fructification of the summer cause in unhealthily
sensitive organizations.

Germinie was forever wiping eyes which no longer wept, but which had once wept copiously. She
was always ready with an everlasting: "Nothing's the matter, mademoiselle!" uttered in the
tone that covers a secret. She adopted dumb, despairing, funereal attitudes, the airs by which
a woman's body diffuses melancholy and makes her very shadow a bore. With her face, her glance,
her mouth, the folds of her dress, her presence, the noise she made at work in the adjoining
room, even with her silence, she enveloped mademoiselle in the despair that exhaled from her
person. At the slightest word she would bristle up. Mademoiselle could not address an observation
to her, ask her the most trivial question, give her an order or express a wish: everything
was taken by her as a reproach. And thereupon she would act like a madwoman. She would wipe
her eyes and grumble: "Oh! I am very unfortunate! I can see that mademoiselle doesn't care
for me any more!" Her spite against various people vented itself in sublimely ingenious complaints.
"That woman always comes when it rains!" she would say, upon discovering a bit of mud that
Madame de Belleuse had left on the carpet. During the week following New Year's Day, the week
when all of Mademoiselle de Varandeuil's remaining relatives and friends, rich and poor alike,
climbed the five flights and waited on the landing at her door for their turns to occupy the
six chairs in her bedroom, Germinie redoubled her ill-humor, her impertinent remarks, her sulky
muttering. Inventing grievances against her mistress, she punished her constantly by a persistent
silence, which it was impossible to break. Then there would be periods of frenzied industry.
Mademoiselle would hear through the partitions on all sides furious manipulation of the broom
and duster, the sharp, vicious scrubbing and slamming of the servant whom one imagines muttering
to herself as she maltreats the furniture: "Oh! yes, I'll do your work for you!"

Old people are patient with servants who have been long in their service. Long habit, the weakening
will-power, the horror of change, the dread of new faces,--everything disposes them to weakness
and cowardly concessions. Notwithstanding her quick temper, her promptness to lose her head,
to fly into a rage, to breathe fire and flame, mademoiselle said nothing. She acted as if she
saw nothing. She pretended to be reading when Germinie entered the room. She waited, curled
up in her easy-chair, until the maid's ill-humor had blown over or burst. She bent her back
before the storm; she said no word, had no thought of bitterness against her. She simply pitied
her for causing herself so much suffering.

In truth Germinie was not Mademoiselle de Varandeuil's maid; she was Devotion, waiting to close
her eyes. The solitary old woman, overlooked by death, alone at the end of her life, dragging
her affections from grave to grave, had found her last friend in her servant. She had rested
her heart upon her as upon an adopted daughter, and she was especially unhappy because she
was powerless to comfort her. Moreover, at intervals, Germinie returned to her from the depths
of her brooding melancholy and her savage humor, and threw herself on her knees before her
kind heart. Suddenly, at a ray of sunlight, a beggar's song, or any one of the nothings that
float in the air and expand the heart, she would burst into tears and demonstrations of affection;
her heart would overflow with burning emotions, she would seem to feel a pleasure in embracing
her mistress, as if the joy of living again had effaced everything. At other times some trifling
ailment of mademoiselle's would bring about the change; a smile would come to the old servant's
face and gentleness to her hands. Sometimes, at such moments, mademoiselle would say: "Come,
my girl--something's the matter. Tell me what it is." And Germinie would reply: "No, mademoiselle,
it's the weather."--"The weather!" mademoiselle would repeat with a doubtful air, "the weather!"

XXIX

One evening in March the Jupillons, mother and son, were talking together by the stove in their
back-shop.

Jupillon had been drafted. The money his mother had put aside to purchase his release had been
used up as a result of six months of poor business and by credits given to certain lorettes
on the street, who had left the key under their door-mat one fine morning. He had not prospered,
in a business way, himself, and his stock in trade had been taken on execution. He had been
that day to ask a former employer to advance him the money to purchase a substitute. But the
old perfumer had not forgiven him for leaving him and setting up for himself, and he refused
point-blank.

Mère Jupillon, in despair, was complaining tearfully. She repeated the number drawn by her
son: "Twenty-two! twenty-two!" And she said: "And yet I sewed a black spider into your paletot
with his web; a velvety fellow he was! Oh, dear! I ought to have done as they told me and made
you wear the cap you were baptized in. Ah! the good God ain't fair! There's the fruit woman's
son drew a lucky number! That comes of being honest! And those two sluts at number eighteen
must go and hook it with my money! I might have known they meant something by the way they
shook hands. They did me out of more than seven hundred francs, did you know it? And the black
creature opposite--and that infernal girl as had the face to eat pots of strawberries at twenty
francs! they might as well have taken me too, the hussies! But you haven't gone yet all the
same. I'd rather sell the creamery--I'll go out to work again, do cooking or housekeeping,--anything!
Why, I'd draw money from a stone for you!"

Jupillon smoked and let his mother do the talking. When she had finished, he said: "That'll
do for talk, mamma!--all that's nothing but words. You'll spoil your digestion and it ain't
worth while. You needn't sell anything--you needn't strain yourself at all--I'll buy my substitute
and it sha'n't cost you a sou;--do you want to bet on it?"

"Jesus!" ejaculated Madame Jupillon.

"I have an idea."

After a pause, Jupillon continued: "I didn't want to make trouble with you on account of Germinie--you
know, at the time the stories about us were going round; you thought it was time for me to
break with her--that she would be in our way--and you kicked her out of the house, stiff. That
wasn't my idea--I didn't think she was so bad as all that for the family butter. But, however,
you thought best to do it. And perhaps, after all, you did the best thing; instead of cooling
her off, you warmed her up for me--yes, warmed her up--I've met her once or twice--and she's
changed, I tell you. Gad! how she's drying up!"

"But you know very well she hasn't got a sou."

"I don't say she has, of her own. But what's that got to do with it? She'll find it somewhere.
She's good for twenty-three hundred shiners yet!"

"But suppose you get mixed up in it?"

"Oh! she won't steal 'em----"

"The deuce she won't!"

"Well! if she does, it won't be from anyone but her mistress. Do you suppose her mademoiselle
would have her pinched for that? She'll turn her off, and that'll be the end of it. We'll advise
her to try the air in another quarter--off she goes!--and we sha'n't see her again. But it
would be too stupid for her to steal. She'll arrange it somehow, she'll hunt round and turn
things over. I don't know how, not I! but that's her affair, you understand. This is the time
for her to show her talents. By the way, perhaps you don't know, they say her old woman's sick.
If the dear lady should happen to step out and leave her all the stuff, as the story goes in
the quarter--why, it wouldn't be a bad thing to have played see-saw with her, eh, mamma? We
must put on gloves, you see, mamma, when we're dealing with people who may have four or five
thousand a year come tumbling into their aprons."

"Oh! my God! what are you talking about? But after the way I treated her--oh! no, she'll never
come back here."

"Well! I tell you I'll bring her back--and to-night at the latest," said Jupillon, rising,
and rolling a cigarette between his fingers. "No excuses, you know," he said to his mother,
"they won't do any good--and be cold to her. Act as if you received her only on my account,
because you are weak. No one knows what may happen, we must always keep an anchor to windward."

XXX

Jupillon was walking back and forth on the sidewalk in front of Germinie's house when she came out.

"Good-evening, Germinie," he said, behind her.

She turned as if she had been struck, and, without answering his greeting, instinctively moved
on a few steps as if to fly from him.

"Germinie!"

Jupillon said nothing more than that; he did not follow her, he did not move. She came back
to him like a trained beast when his rope is taken off.

"What is it?" said she. "Do you want more money? or do you want to tell me some of your mother's
foolish remarks?"

"No, but I am going away," said Jupillon, with a serious face. "I am drafted--and I am going away."

"You are going away?" said she. She seemed as if her mind was not awake.

"Look here, Germinie," Jupillon continued. "I have made you unhappy. I haven't been very kind
to you, I know. My cousin's been a little to blame. What do you want?"

"You're going away?" rejoined Germinie, taking his arm. "Don't lie to me--are you going away?"

"I tell you, yes--and it's true. I'm only waiting for marching orders. You have to pay more
than two thousand francs for a substitute this year. They say there's going to be a war: however,
there's a chance."

As he spoke he was leading Germinie down the street.

"Where are you taking me?" said she.

"To mother's, of course--so that you two can make up and put an end to all this nonsense."

"After what she said to me? Never!"

And Germinie pushed Jupillon's arm away.

"Well, if that's the way it is, good-bye."

And Jupillon raised his cap.

"Shall I write to you from the regiment?"

Germinie was silent, hesitating, for a moment. Then she said, abruptly: "Come on!" and, motioning
to Jupillon to walk beside her, she turned back up the street.

And so they walked along, side by side, without a word. They reached a paved road that stretched
out as far as the eye could see, between two lines of lanterns, between two rows of gnarled
trees that held aloft handfuls of bare branches and cast their slender, motionless shadows
on high blank walls. There, in the keen air, chilled by the evaporation of the snow, they walked
on and on for a long time, burying themselves in the vague, infinite, unfamiliar depths of
a street that follows the same wall, the same trees, the same lanterns, and leads on to the
same darkness beyond. The damp, heavy air that they breathed smelt of sugar and tallow and
carrion. From time to time a vivid flash passed before their eyes: it was the lantern of a
butcher's cart that shone upon slaughtered cattle and huge pieces of bleeding meat thrown upon
the back of a white horse; the light upon the flesh, amid the darkness, resembled a purple
conflagration, a furnace of blood.

"Well! have you reflected?" said Jupillon. "This little Avenue Trudaine isn't a very cheerful
place, do you know?"

"Come on," Germinie replied.

And, without another word, she set out again at the same fierce, jerky gait, agitated by all
the tumult raging in her heart. Her thoughts were expressed in her gestures. Her feet went
astray, madness attacked her hands. At times her shadow, seen from behind, reminded one of
a woman from La Salpêtrière. Two or three passers-by stopped for a moment and looked after
her; then, remembering that they were in Paris, passed on.

Suddenly she stopped, and with the gesture of one who has made a desperate resolution, she
said: "Ah! my God! another pin in the cushion!--Let us go!"

And she took Jupillon's arm.

"Oh! I know very well," said Jupillon, when they were near the creamery, "my mother wasn't
fair to you. You see, the woman has been too virtuous all her life. She don't know, she don't
understand. And then, d'ye see, I'll tell you the whole secret: she loves me so much she's
jealous of any woman who loves me. So go in, do!"

And he pushed her into the arms of Madame Jupillon, who kissed her, mumbled a few words of
regret, and made haste to weep in order to relieve her own embarrassment and make the scene
more affecting.

Throughout the evening Germinie sat with her eyes fixed on Jupillon, almost terrifying him
with her expression.

"Come, come," he said, as he walked home with her, "don't be so down in the mouth as all this.
We must have a little philosophy in this world. Well! here I am a soldier--that's all! To be
sure they don't all come back. But then--look here! I propose that we enjoy ourselves for the
fortnight that's left, because it will be so much gained--and if I don't come back--Well, at
all events, I shall leave you a pleasant memory of me."

Germinie made no reply.

XXXI

For a whole week Germinie did not set foot in the shop again.

The Jupillons, when she did not return, began to despair. At last, one evening about half past
ten, she pushed the door open, entered the shop without a word of greeting, walked up to the
little table where the mother and son were sitting half asleep, and placed upon it, beneath
her hand which was closed like a claw, an old piece of cloth that gave forth a ringing sound.

"There it is!" said she.

And, letting go the corners of the cloth, she emptied its contents on the table: forth came
greasy bank-notes, patched on the back, fastened together with pins, old tarnished louis d'or,
black hundred-sou pieces, forty-sou pieces, ten-sou pieces, the money of the poor, the money
of toil, money from Christmas-boxes, money soiled by dirty hands, worn out in leather purses,
rubbed smooth in the cash drawer filled with sous--money with a flavor of perspiration.

For a moment she gazed at the display as if to assure her own eyes; then she said to Madame
Jupillon in a sad voice, the voice of her sacrifice:

"There it is--There's the two thousand three hundred francs for him to buy a substitute."

"Oh! my dear Germinie!" said the stout woman, almost suffocated by emotion; and she threw herself
upon Germinie's neck, who submitted to be embraced. "Oh! you must take something with us--a
cup of coffee--"

"No, thank you," said Germinie; "I am done up. Dame! I've had to fly around, you know, to get
them. I'm going to bed now. Some other time."

And she went away.

She had had to "fly around," as she said, to scrape together such a sum, to accomplish that
impossibility: to raise two thousand three hundred francs--two thousand three hundred francs,
of which she had not the first five! She had collected them, begged them, extorted them piece
by piece, almost sou by sou. She had picked them up, scraped them together here and there,
from this one and from that one, by loans of two hundred, one hundred, fifty, twenty francs,
or whatever sum anyone would lend. She had borrowed from her concierge, her grocer, her fruit
woman, her poulterer, her laundress; she had borrowed from all the dealers in the quarter,
and from the dealers in the quarters where she had previously lived with mademoiselle. She
had made up the amount with money drawn from every source, even from her poor miserable water-carrier.
She had gone a-begging everywhere, importuned humbly, prayed, implored, invented fables, swallowed
the shame of lying and of seeing that she was not believed. The humiliation of confessing that
she had no money laid by, as was supposed, and as, through pride, she had encouraged people
to suppose, the sympathy of people she despised, the refusals, the alms, she had undergone
everything, endured what she would not have endured to procure bread for herself, and not once
only, with a single person, but with thirty, forty, all those who had given her something or
from whom she had hoped for something.

At last she had succeeded in collecting the money; but it was her master and had possession
of her forever. Her life thenceforth belonged to the obligations she had entered into with
all these people, to the service her dealers had rendered her, knowing very well what they
were doing. She belonged to her debt, to the sum she would have to pay every year. She knew
it; she knew that all her wages would go in that way; that with the rates of interest, which
she had left entirely at the discretion of her creditors, and the written obligations demanded
by them, mademoiselle's three hundred francs would hardly suffice to pay the interest on the
twenty-three hundred she had borrowed. She knew that she was in debt, that she should be in
debt forever, that she was doomed forever to privation and embarrassment, to the strictest
economy in her manner of living and her dress. She had hardly any more illusions as to the
Jupillons than as to her own future. She had a presentiment that her money was lost so far
as they were concerned. She had not even based any hopes on the possibility that this sacrifice
would touch the young man. She had acted on the impulse of the moment. If she had been told
to die to prevent his going, she would have died. The idea of seeing him a soldier, the idea
of the battlefield, the cannon, the wounded, in presence of which a woman shuts her eyes in
terror, had led her to do something more than die; to sell her life for that man, to consign
herself to everlasting poverty.

XXXII

Disorders of the nervous system frequently result in disarranging the natural sequence of human
joys and sorrows, in destroying their proportion and equilibrium, and in carrying them to the
greatest possible excess. It seems that, under the influence of this disease of sensitiveness,
the sharpened, refined, spiritualized sensations exceed their natural measure and limits, reach
a point beyond themselves, and, as it were, make the enjoyment and suffering of the individual
infinite. So the infrequent joys that Germinie still knew were insane joys, from which she
emerged drunk, and with the physical symptoms of drunkenness.--"Why, my girl," mademoiselle
sometimes could not forbear saying, "anyone would think you were tipsy."--"Mademoiselle makes
you pay dear for a little amusement once in a while!" Germinie would reply. And when she relapsed
into her sorrowful, disappointed, restless condition, her desolation was more intense, more
frantic and delirious than her gayety.

The moment had arrived when the terrible truth, which she had suspected before, at last became
clear to her. She saw that she had failed to lay hold of Jupillon by the devotion her love
had manifested, by stripping herself of all she possessed, by all the pecuniary sacrifices
which involved her life in the toils and embarrassment of a debt it was impossible for her
to pay. She felt that he gave her his love grudgingly, a love to which he imparted all the
humiliation of an act of charity. When she told him that she was again enceinte, the man whom
she was about to make a father once more said to her: "Well, women like you are amusing creatures!
always full or just empty!" She conceived the ideas, the suspicions that come to genuine love
when it is betrayed, the presentiments of the heart that tell women they are no longer in undisputed
possession of their lovers, and that there is another because there is likely to be another.

She complained no more, she wept no more, she indulged no more in recrimination. She abandoned
the struggle with this man, armed with indifference, who, with the cold-blooded sarcasm of
the vulgar cad, was so expert in insulting her passion, her unreasoning impulses, her wild
outbursts of affection. And so, in agonizing resignation, she set herself the task of waiting--for
what? She did not know: perhaps until he would have no more of her.

Heart-broken and silent, she kept watch upon Jupillon; she followed him about and never lost
sight of him; she tried to make him speak by interjecting remarks in his fits of distraction.
She hovered about him, but she saw nothing wrong, she could lay hold of nothing, detect nothing;
and yet she was convinced that there was something and that what she feared was true; she felt
a woman's presence in the air.

One morning, as she went down the street rather earlier than usual, she spied him a few yards
before her on the sidewalk. He was dressed up, and constantly looked himself over as he walked
along. From time to time he raised his trouser leg a little to see the polish on his boots.
She followed him. He went straight on without looking back. She was not far behind him when
he reached Place Bréda. There was a woman walking on the square beside the cabstand. Germinie
could see nothing of her but her back. Jupillon went up to her and she turned: it was his cousin.
They began to walk side by side, up and down the square; then they started through Rue Bréda
toward Rue de Navarin. There the girl took Jupillon's arm; she did not lean on it at first,
but little by little, as they proceeded, she leaned toward him, with the movement of a branch
when it is bent, and drew closer and closer. They walked slowly, so slowly that at times Germinie
was obliged to stop in order to keep at a safe distance from them. They ascended Rue des Martyrs,
passed through Rue de la Tour d'Auvergne, and went down Rue Montholon. Jupillon was talking
earnestly; the cousin said nothing, but listened to Jupillon, and walked on with the absent-minded
air of a woman smelling of a bouquet, now and then darting a little vague glance on one side
or the other--the glance of a frightened child.

When they reached Rue Lamartine, opposite the Passage des Deux-Soeurs, they turned. Germinie
had barely time to throw herself in at a hall door. They passed without seeing her. The little
one was very serious and walked slowly. Jupillon was talking into her ear. They stopped for
a moment; Jupillon gesticulated earnestly; the girl stared fixedly at the pavement. Germinie
thought they were about to part; but they resumed their walk together and made four or five
turns, passing back and forth by the end of the passage. At last they turned in; Germinie darted
from her hiding-place and rushed after them. From the gateway of the passage she saw the skirt
of a dress disappear through the door of a small furnished lodging-house, beside a wine shop.
She ran to the door, looked into the hall and could see nothing. Thereupon all her blood rushed
to her head, with one thought, a single thought that her lips kept repeating like an idiot:
"Vitriol! vitriol! vitriol!" And as her thoughts were instantly transformed into the act of
which she thought, and her delirium transported her abruptly to the crime she contemplated,
she said to herself that she would go up the stairs with the bottle well hidden under her shawl;
she would knock at the door very loud and continuously. He would come at last and would open
the door a crack. She would say nothing to him, not her name even. She would go in without
heeding him. She was strong enough to kill him! and she would go to the bed, to her! She would
take her by the arm and say: "Yes it's me--this is for your life!" And over her face, her throat,
her skin, over everything about her that was youthful and attractive and that invited love,
Germinie watched the vitriol sear and seam and burn and hiss, transforming her into a horrible
object that filled Germinie's heart to overflowing with joy! The bottle was empty, and she
laughed! And, in her frightful dream, her body also dreaming, her feet began to move. She walked
unconsciously down the passage, into the street and to a grocer's shop. Ten minutes she stood
motionless at the counter, with eyes that did not see, the vacant, wandering eyes of one who
has murder in his heart.

"Well, well, what do you want?" said the grocer's wife testily, almost frightened by the bearing
of this woman who did not stir.

"What do I want?" said Germinie. She was so filled, so possessed with the thought of what she
wanted that she believed she had asked for vitriol. "What do I want?"--She passed her hand
across her forehead.--"Ah! I don't know now."

And she left the shop, stumbling as she went.

XXXIII

In the torment of the life she was leading, in which she suffered the horrors of death and
of unsatisfied passion, Germinie, seeking to deaden her ghastly thoughts, had remembered the
glass she had taken from Adèle's hand one morning, which gave her a whole day of oblivion.
From that day she had taken to drink. She had begun with the little morning draughts to which
the maids of kept women are addicted. She had drunk with this one and with that one. She had
drunk with men who came to breakfast at the creamery; she had drunk with Adèle, who drank like
a man and who took a base delight in seeing this virtuous woman's maid descend as low as herself.

At first she had needed excitement, company, the clinking of glasses, the encouragement of
speech, the inspiration of the challenge, in order to arouse the desire to drink; but she had
soon reached the point where she drank alone. Then it was that she began to carry home a half-filled
glass under her apron and hide it in a corner of the kitchen; that she had taken to drinking
those mixtures of white wine and brandy, of which she would take draught upon draught until
she had found that for which she thirsted--sleep. For what she craved was not the fevered brain,
the happy confusion, the living folly, the delirious, waking dream of drunkenness; what she
needed, what she sought was the negative joy of sleep, Lethean, dreamless sleep, a leaden sleep
falling upon her like the blow of the sledge upon the ox's head: and she found it in those
compounds which struck her down and stretched her out face downward on the waxed cover of the
kitchen table.

To sleep that overpowering sleep, to wallow, by day, in that midnight darkness, had come to
mean to her a truce, deliverance from an existence that she had not the courage to continue
or to end. An overwhelming longing for oblivion was all she felt when she awoke. The hours
of her life that she passed in possession of her faculties, contemplating herself, examining
her conscience, looking on at her own shame, seemed to her so execrable! She preferred to kill
them. There was nothing in the world but sleep to make her forget everything--the congested
sleep of intoxication, which lulls its victim with the arms of Death.

In that glass, from which she forced herself to drink, and which she emptied in a sort of frenzy,
her sufferings, her sorrows, all her horrible present would be drowned and disappear. In a
half hour, her mind would have ceased to think, her life would have ceased to exist; nothing
of her surroundings would have any being for her, there would be no more time even, so far
as she was concerned. "I drink away my troubles!" she said to a woman who told her that she
would wreck her health by drinking. And as, in the periods of reaction that followed her debauches,
there came to her a more painful feeling of her own shame, a greater sense of desolation and
a fiercer detestation of her mistakes and her sins, she sought stronger decoctions of alcohol,
more fiery brandy, and even drank pure absinthe, in order to produce a more deathly lethargy,
and to make her more utterly oblivious to everything.

She ended by attaining in this way whole half days of unconsciousness, from which she emerged
only half awake, with benumbed intelligence, blunted perceptions, hands that did things by
force of habit, the motions of a somnambulist, a body and a mind in which thought, will, memory
seemed still to retain the drowsiness and vagueness of the confused waking hours of the morning.

XXXIV

Half an hour after the horrible meeting when--her mind having dabbled in crime as if with her
fingers--she had determined to disfigure her rival with vitriol and had believed that she had
done so, Germinie returned to Rue de Laval with a bottle of brandy procured at the grocer's.

For two weeks she had been mistress of the apartment, free to indulge her brutish appetite.
Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, who as a general rule hardly stirred from her chair, had gone,
strangely enough, to pass six weeks with an old friend in the country; and she decided not
to take Germinie with her for fear of setting a bad example to the other servants, and arousing
their jealousy of a maid who was accustomed to very light duties and was treated on a different
footing from themselves.

Germinie went into mademoiselle's bedroom and took no more time than was necessary to throw
her shawl and hat on the floor before she began to drink, with the neck of the bottle between
her teeth, pouring down the liquid hurriedly until everything in the room was whirling around
her, and she remembered nothing of the day. Thereupon, staggering, feeling that she was about
to fall, she tried to throw herself on her mistress's bed to sleep; but her dizziness threw
her against the night table. From that she fell to the floor and lay without moving; she simply
snored. But the blow was so violent that during the night she had a miscarriage, followed by
one of those hemorrhages in which the life often ebbs away. She tried to rise and go out on
the landing to call; she tried to stand up: she could not. She felt that she was gliding on
to death, entering its portals and descending with gentle moderation. At last, summoning all
her strength for a final effort, she dragged herself as far as the hall door; but it was impossible
for her to lift her head to the keyhole, impossible to cry out. And she would have died where
she lay had not Adèle, as she was passing in the morning, heard a groan, and, in her alarm,
fetched a locksmith to open the door, and afterward a midwife to attend to the dying woman.

When mademoiselle returned a month later, she found Germinie up and about, but so weak that
she was constantly obliged to sit down, and so pale that she seemed to have no blood left in
her body. They told her that she had had a hemorrhage of which she nearly died: mademoiselle
suspected nothing.

XXXV

Germinie welcomed mademoiselle's return with melting caresses, wet with tears. Her affectionate
manner was like a sick child's; she had the same clinging gentleness, the imploring expression,
the melancholy of timid, frightened suffering. She sought excuses for touching her mistress
with her white blue-veined hands. She approached her with a sort of trembling and fervent humility.
Very often, as she sat facing her upon a stool, and looked up at her with eyes like a dog's,
she would rise and go and kiss some part of her dress, then resume her seat, and in a moment
begin again.

There was heart-rending entreaty in these caresses, these kisses of Germinie's. Death, whose
footsteps she had heard approaching her as if it were a living person; the hours of utter prostration,
when, as she lay in her bed, alone with herself, she had reviewed her whole past life; the
consciousness of the shame of all she had concealed from Mademoiselle de Varandeuil; the fear
of a judgment of God, rising from the depths of her former religious ideas; all the reproaches,
all the apprehensions that whisper in the ear of a dying agony had aroused a horrible dread
in her conscience; and remorse,--the remorse that she had never been able to put down,--was
now alive and crying aloud in her enfeebled, broken body, as yet but partially restored to
life, as yet scarcely firm in the persuasion that it was alive.

Germinie's was not one of those fortunate natures that do wrong and leave the memory of it
behind them, and never feel a twinge of regret. She had not, like Adèle, one of those vulgar
material organizations, which never allow themselves to be affected by any but animal impulses.
She was not blessed with one of those consciences which escape suffering by virtue of mere
brutishness, or of that dense stupidity in which a woman vegetates, sinning because she knows
no better. In her case, an unhealthy sensitiveness, a sort of cerebral excitement, a disposition
on the part of the brain to be always on the alert, to work itself into a frenzy of bitterness,
anxiety and discontent with itself, a moral sense that stood erect, as it were, after every
one of her backslidings, all the characteristics of a sensitive mind, predestined to misfortune,
united to torture her, and to renew day after day, more openly and more cruelly in her despair,
the agony due to acts that would hardly have caused such long-continued suffering in many women
in her station.

Germinie yielded to the impulse of passion; but as soon as she had yielded to it she despised
herself. Even in the excitement of pleasure she could not entirely forget and lose herself.
The image of mademoiselle always arose before her, with her stern, motherly face. Germinie
did not become immodest in the same degree that she abandoned herself to her passions and sank
lower and lower in vice. The degrading depths to which she descended did not fortify her against
her disgust and horror of herself. Habit did not harden her. Her defiled conscience rejected
its defilement, struggled fiercely in its shame, rent itself in its repentance and did not
for one second permit itself the full enjoyment of vice, was never completely stunned by its fall.

And so when mademoiselle, forgetting that she was a servant, leaned over to her with the brusque
familiarity of tone and gesture that went straight to her heart, Germinie, confused and overcome
with blushing timidity, was speechless and seemed bereft of sense under the horrible torture
caused by the consciousness of her own unworthiness. She would fly from the room, she would
invent some pretext to escape from that affection which she so shamefully betrayed, and which,
when it touched her, stirred her remorse to shuddering activity.

XXXVI

The miraculous part of this disorderly, abandoned life, this life of shame and misery, was
that it did not become known. Germinie allowed no trace of anything to appear outside; she
allowed nothing to rise to her lips, nothing to be seen in her face, nothing to be noticed
in her manner, and the accursed background of her existence remained hidden from her mistress.

It had, indeed, sometimes occurred to mademoiselle in a vague way that her maid had some secret,
something that she was concealing from her, something that was obscure in her life. She had
had moments of doubt, of suspicion, an instinctive feeling of uneasiness, confused glimpses
of something wrong, a faint scent that eluded her and vanished in the gloom. She had thought
at times that she had stumbled upon sealed, unresponsive recesses in the girl's heart, upon
a mystery, upon some unlighted passage of her life. Again, at times it had seemed to her that
her maid's eyes did not say what her mouth said. Involuntarily, she had remembered a phrase
that Germinie often repeated: "A sin hidden, a sin half forgiven." But the thing that filled
her thoughts above all else was amazement that Germinie, despite the increase in her wages
and the little gifts that she gave her almost every day, never purchased anything for her toilet,
had no new dresses or linen. Where did her money go? She had almost admitted having withdrawn
her eighteen hundred francs from the savings bank. Mademoiselle ruminated over it, then said
to herself that that was the whole of her maid's mystery; it was about money, she was short
of funds, doubtless on account of some obligations she had entered into long ago for her family,
and perhaps she had been sending more money to "her canaille of a brother-in-law." She was
so kind-hearted and had so little system! She had so little idea of the value of a hundred-sou
piece! That was all there was to it: mademoiselle was sure of it; and as she knew the girl's
obstinate nature and had no hope of inducing her to change her mind, she said nothing to her.
If this explanation did not fully satisfy mademoiselle, she attributed what there was strange
and mysterious in her maid's behavior to her somewhat secretive nature, which retained something
of the characteristic distrust of the peasant, who is jealous of her own petty affairs and
takes delight in burying a corner of her life away down in her heart, as the villager hoards
his sous in a woolen stocking. Or else she persuaded herself that it was her ill health, her
state of continual suffering that was responsible for her whims and her habit of dissimulation.
And her mind, in its interested search for motives, stopped at that point, with the indolence
and a little of the selfishness of old people's minds, who, having an instinctive dread of
final results and of the real characters of their acquaintances, prefer not to be too inquisitive
or to know too much. Who knows? Perhaps all this mystery was nothing but a paltry matter, unworthy
to disturb or to interest her, some petty woman's quarrel. She went to sleep thereupon, reassured,
and ceased to cudgel her brains.

In truth, how could mademoiselle have guessed Germinie's degradation and the horror of her
secret! In her most poignant suffering, in her wildest intoxication, the unhappy creature retained
the incredible strength necessary to suppress and keep back everything. From her passionate,
overcharged nature, which found relief so naturally in expansion, never a word escaped or a
syllable that cast a ray of light upon her secret. Mortification, contempt, disappointment,
self-sacrifice, the death of her child, the treachery of her lover, the dying agony of her
love, all remained voiceless within her, as if she stifled their cries by pressing her hands
upon her heart. Her rare attacks of weakness, when she seemed to be struggling with pains that
strangled her, the fierce, feverish caresses lavished upon Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, the
sudden paroxysms, as if she were trying to give birth to something, always ended without words
and found relief in tears.

Even illness, with its resulting weakness and enervation, forced nothing from her. It could
make no impression on that heroic resolution to keep silent to the end. Hysterical attacks
extorted shrieks from her and nothing but shrieks. When she was a girl she dreamed aloud; she
forced her dreams to cease speaking, she closed the lips of her sleep. As mademoiselle might
have discovered from her breath that she had been drinking, she ate shallots and garlic, and
concealed the fumes of liquor with their offensive odors. She even trained her intoxication,
her drunken torpor to awake at her mistress's footstep, and remain awake in her presence.

Thus she led, as it were, two lives. She was like two women, and by dint of energy, adroitness
and feminine diplomacy, with a self-assurance that never failed her even in the mental confusion
caused by drink, she succeeded in separating those two existences, in living them both without
mingling them, in never allowing the two women that lived in her to be confounded with each
other, in continuing to be, with Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, the virtuous, respectable girl
she had been, in emerging from her orgies without carrying away the taste of them, in displaying,
when she left her lover, a sort of old-maidish modesty, shocked by the scandalous courses of
other maids. She never uttered a word or bore herself in a way to arouse a suspicion of her
clandestine life; nothing about her conveyed a hint as to the way her nights were passed. When
she placed her foot upon the door-mat outside Mademoiselle de Varandeuil's apartments, when
she approached her, when she stood before her, she adopted the tone and the attitude, even
to a certain way of holding the dress, which relieve a woman from so much as a suspicion of
having aught to do with men. She talked freely upon all subjects, as if she had nothing to
blush for. She spoke with bitterness of the misdoings and shame of others, as if she were herself
beyond reproach. She joked with her mistress about love, in a jovial, unembarrassed, indifferent
tone; to hear her you would have thought she was talking of an old acquaintance of whom she
had lost sight. And in the eyes of all those who saw her only as Mademoiselle de Varandeuil
did and at her home, there was a certain atmosphere of chastity about her thirty-five years,
the odor of stern, unimpeachable virtue, peculiar to middle-aged maid-servants and plain women.

And yet all this falsehood in the matter of appearances was not hypocrisy in Germinie. It did
not arise from downright duplicity, from corrupt striving for effect: it was her affection
for mademoiselle that made her what she was with her. She was determined at any price to save
her the grief of seeing her as she was, of going to the bottom of her character. She deceived
her solely in order to retain her affection,--with a sort of respect; and a feeling of veneration,
almost of piety, stole into the ghastly comedy she was playing, like the feeling a girl has
who lies to her mother in order not to rend her heart.

XXXVII

To lie! nothing was left for her but that. She felt that it was an impossibility to draw back
from her present position. She did not even entertain the idea of an attempt to escape from
it, it seemed such a hopeless task, she was so cowardly, so crushed and degraded, and she felt
that she was still so firmly bound to that man by all sorts of vile, degrading chains, even
by the contempt that he no longer tried to conceal from her!

Sometimes, as she reflected upon her plight, she was dismayed. The simple ideas and terrors
of the peasantry recurred to her mind. And the superstitions of her youth whispered to her
that the man had cast a spell upon her, that he had perhaps given her enchanted bread to eat.
Otherwise would she have been what she was? Would she have felt, at the mere sight of him,
that thrill of emotion through her whole frame, that almost brute-like sensation of the approach
of a master? Would she have felt her whole body, her mouth, her arms, her loving and caressing
gestures involuntarily go out to him? Would she have belonged to him so absolutely? Long and
bitterly she dwelt upon all that should have cured her, rescued her: the man's disdain, his
insults, the degrading concessions he had forced from her; and she was compelled to admit that
there had been nothing too precious for her to sacrifice to him, and that for him she had swallowed
the things she loathed most bitterly. She tried to imagine the degree of degradation to which
her love would refuse to descend, and she could conceive of none. He could do what he chose
with her, insult her, beat her, and she would remain under his heel! She could not think of
herself as not belonging to him. She could not think of herself without him. To have that man
to love was necessary to her existence; she derived warmth from him, she lived by him, she
breathed him. There seemed to be no parallel case to hers among the women of her condition
whom she knew. No one of her comrades carried into a liaison the intensity, the bitterness,
the torture, the enjoyment of suffering that she found in hers. No one of them carried into
it that which was killing her and which she could not dispense with.

To herself she appeared an extraordinary creature, of an exceptional nature, with the temperament
of animals whom ill-treatment binds the closer to their masters. There were days when she did
not know herself, and when she wondered if she were still the same woman. As she went over
in her mind all the base deeds to which Jupillon had induced her to stoop, she could not believe
that it was really she who had submitted to it. Had she, violent and impulsive as she knew
herself to be, boiling over with fiery passions, rebellious and hotheaded, exhibited such docility
and resignation? She had repressed her wrath, forced back the murderous thoughts that had crowded
to her brain so many times! She had always obeyed, always possessed her soul in patience, always
hung her head! She had forced her nature, her instincts, her pride, her vanity, and more than
all else, her jealousy, the fierce passions of her heart, to crawl at that man's feet! For
the sake of keeping him she had stooped to share him, to allow him to have mistresses, to receive
him from the hands of others, to seek a part of his cheek on which his cousin had not kissed
him! And now, after all these sacrifices, with which she had wearied him, she retained her
hold upon him by a still more distasteful sacrifice: she drew him to her by gifts, she opened
her purse to him to induce him to keep appointments with her, she purchased his good-humor
by gratifying his whims and his caprices; she paid this brute, who haggled over the price of
his kisses and demanded pourboires of love! And she lived from day to day in constant dread
of what the miserable villain would demand of her on the morrow.

XXXVIII

"He must have twenty francs," Germinie mechanically repeated the sentence to herself several
times, but her thoughts did not go beyond the words she uttered. The walk and the climb up
five flights of stairs had made her dizzy. She fell in a sitting posture on the greasy couch
in the kitchen, hung her head, and laid her arms on the table. Her ears were ringing. Her ideas
went and came in a disorderly throng, stifling one another in her brain, and of them all but
one remained, more and more distinct and persistent: "He must have twenty francs! twenty francs!
twenty francs!" And she looked as if she expected to find them somewhere there, in the fireplace,
in the waste-basket, under the stove. Then she thought of the people who owed her, of a German
maid who had promised to repay her more than a year before. She rose and tied her capstrings.
She no longer said: "He must have twenty francs;" she said: "I will get them."

She went down to Adèle: "You haven't twenty francs for a note that just came, have you? Mademoiselle
has gone out."

"Nothing here," said Adèle; "I gave madame my last twenty francs last night to get her supper.
The jade hasn't come back yet. Will you have thirty sous?"

She ran to the grocer's. It was Sunday, and three o'clock in the afternoon: the grocer had
closed his shop.

There were a number of people at the fruitwoman's; she asked for four sous' worth of herbs.

"I haven't any money," said she. She hoped that the woman would say: "Do you want some?" Instead
of that, she said: "What an idea! as if I was afraid of you!" There were other maids there,
so she went out without saying anything more.

"Is there anything for us?" she said to the concierge. "Ah! by the way, my Pipelet, you don't
happen to have twenty francs about you, do you? it will save my going way up-stairs again."

"Forty, if you want----"

She breathed freely. The concierge went to a desk at the back of the lodge. "Sapristi! my wife
has taken the key. Why! how pale you are!"

"It isn't anything." And she rushed out into the courtyard toward the door of the servant's
staircase.

This is what she thought as she went up-stairs: "There are people who find twenty-franc pieces.
He needed them to-day, he told me. Mademoiselle gave me my money not five days ago, and I can't
ask her. After all, what are twenty francs more or less to her? The grocer would surely have
lent them to me. I had another grocer on Rue Taitbout: he didn't close till evening Sundays."

She was in front of her own door. She leaned over the rail of the other staircase, looked to
see if anyone was coming up, entered her room, went straight to mademoiselle's bedchamber,
opened the window and breathed long and hard with her elbows on the window-sill. Sparrows hastened
to her from the neighboring chimneys, thinking that she was going to toss bread to them. She
closed the window and glanced at the top of the commode--first at a vein of marble, then at
a little sandal-wood box, then at the key--a small steel key left in the lock. Suddenly there
was a ringing in her ears; she thought that the bell rang. She ran and opened the door: there
was no one there. She returned with the certainty that she was alone, went to the kitchen for
a cloth and began to rub a mahogany armchair, turning her back to the commode; but she could
still see the box, she could see it lying open, she could see the coins at the right where
mademoiselle kept her gold, the papers in which she wrapped it, a hundred francs in each;--her
twenty francs were there! She closed her eyes as if the light dazzled them. She felt a dizziness
in her conscience; but immediately her whole being rose in revolt against her, and it seemed
to her as if her heart in its indignation rose to her throat. In an instant the honor of her
whole life stood erect between her hand and that key. Her upright, unselfish, devoted past,
twenty years of resistance to the evil counsels and the corruption of that foul quarter, twenty
years of scorn for theft, twenty years in which her pocket had not held back a sou from her
employers, twenty years of indifference to gain, twenty years in which temptation had never
come near her, her long maintained and natural virtue, mademoiselle's confidence in her--all
these things came to her mind in a single instant. Her youthful years clung to her and took
possession of her. From her family, from the memory of her parents, from the unsullied reputation
of her wretched name, from the dead from whom she was descended, there arose a murmur as of
guardian angels hovering about her. For one second she was saved.

And then, insensibly, evil thoughts glided one by one into her brain. She sought for subjects
of bitterness, for excuses for ingratitude to her mistress. She compared with her own wages
the wages of which the other maids in the house boasted vaingloriously. She concluded that
mademoiselle was very fortunate to have her in her service, and that she should have increased
her wages more since she had been with her.

"And then," she suddenly asked herself, "why does she leave the key in her box?" And she began
to reflect thereupon that the money in the box was not used for living expenses, but had been
laid aside by mademoiselle to buy a velvet dress for a goddaughter.--"Sleeping money," she
said to herself. She marshaled her reasons with precipitation, as if to make it impossible
to discuss them. "And then, it's only for once. She would lend them to me if I asked her. And
I will return them."

She put out her hand and turned the key. She stopped; it seemed to her that the intense silence
round about was listening to her and looking at her. She raised her eyes: the mirror threw
back her face at her. Before that face, her own, she was afraid; she recoiled in terror and
shame as if before the face of her crime: it was a thief's head that she had upon her shoulders!

She fled into the corridor. Suddenly she turned upon her heel, went straight to the box, turned
the key, put in her hand, fumbled under the hair trinkets and souvenirs, felt in a roll of
five louis and took out one piece, closed the box and rushed into the kitchen. She had the
little coin in her hand and dared not look at it.

XXXIX

Then it was that Germinie's abasement and degradation began to be visible in her personal appearance,
to make her stupid and slovenly. A sort of drowsiness came over her ideas. She was no longer
keen and prompt of apprehension. What she had read and what she had learned seemed to escape
her. Her memory, which formerly retained everything, became confused and unreliable. The sharp
wit of the Parisian maid-servant gradually vanished from her conversation, her retorts, her
laughter. Her face, once so animated, was no longer lighted up by gleams of intelligence. In
her whole person you would have said that she had become once more the stupid peasant girl
that she was when she came from her province, when she went to a stationer's for gingerbread.
She seemed not to understand. As mademoiselle expressed it, she made faces like an idiot. She
was obliged to explain to her, to repeat two or three times things that Germinie had always
grasped on the merest hint. She asked herself, when she saw how slow and torpid she was, if
somebody had not exchanged her maid for another.--"Why, you're getting to be a perfect imbecile!"
she would sometimes say to her testily. She remembered the time when Germinie was so useful
about finding dates, writing an address on a card, telling her what day they had put in the
wood or broached the cask of wine,--all of which were things that her old brain could not remember.
Now Germinie remembered nothing. In the evening, when she went over her accounts with mademoiselle,
she could not think what she had bought in the morning; she would say: "Wait!" but she would
simply pass her hand vaguely across her brow; nothing would come to her mind. Mademoiselle,
to save her tired old eyes, had fallen into the habit of having Germinie read the newspaper
to her; but she got to stumbling so and reading with so little intelligence, that mademoiselle
was compelled to decline her services with thanks.

As her faculties failed, she abandoned and neglected her body in a like degree. She gave no
thought to her dress, nor to cleanliness even. In her indifference she retained nothing of
a woman's natural solicitude touching her personal appearance; she did not dress decently.
She wore dresses spotted with grease and torn under the arms, aprons in rags, worn stockings
in shoes that were out at heel. She allowed the cooking, the smoke, the coal, the wax, to soil
her hands and face and simply wiped them as she would after dusting. Formerly she had had the
one coquettish and luxurious instinct of poor women, a love for clean linen. No one in the
house had fresher caps than she. Her simple little collars were always of that snowy whiteness
that lights up the skin so prettily and makes the whole person clean. Now she wore frayed,
dirty caps which looked as if she had slept in them. She went without ruffles, her collar made
a band of filth against the skin of her neck, and you felt that she was less clean beneath
than above. An odor of poverty, rank and musty, arose from her. Sometimes it was so strong
that Mademoiselle de Varandeuil could not refrain from saying to her: "Go and change your clothes,
my girl--you smell of the poor!"

In the street she no longer looked as if she belonged to any respectable person. She had not
the appearance of a virtuous woman's maid. She lost the aspect of a servant who, by dint of
displaying her self-esteem and self-respect even in her garb, reflects in her person the honor
and the pride of her masters. From day to day she sank nearer to the level of that abject,
shameless creature whose dress drags in the gutter--a dirty slattern.

As she neglected herself, so she neglected everything about her. She kept nothing in order,
she did no cleaning or washing. She allowed dirt and disorder to make their way into the apartments,
to invade mademoiselle's own sanctum, with whose neatness mademoiselle was formerly so well
pleased and so proud. The dust collected there, the spiders spun their webs behind the frames,
the mirrors were as if covered with a veil; the marble mantels, the mahogany furniture, lost
their lustre; moths flew up from the carpets which were never shaken, worms ensconced themselves
where the brush and broom no longer came to disturb them; neglect spread a film of dust over
all the sleeping, neglected objects that were formerly awakened and enlivened every morning
by the maid's active hand. A dozen times mademoiselle had tried to spur Germinie's self-esteem
to action; but thereupon, for a whole day, there was such a frantic scrubbing, accompanied
by such gusts of ill-humor, that mademoiselle would take an oath never to try again. One day,
however, she made bold to write Germinie's name with her finger in the dust on her mirror;
Germinie did not forgive her for a week. At last mademoiselle became resigned. She hardly ventured
to remark mildly, when she saw that her maid was in good humor: "Confess, Germinie, that the
dust is very well treated with us!"

To the wondering observations of the friends who still came to see her and whom Germinie was
forced to admit, mademoiselle would reply, in a compassionate, sympathetic tone: "Yes, it is
filthy, I know! But what can you expect? Germinie's sick, and I prefer that she shouldn't kill
herself." Sometimes, when Germinie had gone out, she would venture to rub a cloth over a commode
or touch a frame with the duster, with her gouty hands. She would do it hurriedly, afraid of
being scolded, of having a scene, if the maid should return and detect her.

Germinie did almost no work; she barely served mademoiselle's meals. She had reduced her mistress's
breakfast and dinner to the simplest dishes, those which she could cook most easily and quickly.
She made her bed without raising the mattress, à l'Anglaise. The servant that she had been
was not to be recognized in her, did not exist in her, except on the days when mademoiselle
gave a small dinner party, the number of covers being always considerable on account of the
party of children invited. On those days Germinie emerged, as if by enchantment, from her indolence
and apathy, and, putting forth a sort of feverish strength, she recovered all her former energy
in face of her ovens and the lengthened table. And mademoiselle was dumfounded to see her,
all by herself, declining assistance and capable of anything, prepare in a few hours a dinner
for half a score of persons, serve it and clear the table afterwards, with the nimble hands
and all the quick dexterity of her youth.

XL

"No--not this time, no," said Germinie, rising from the foot of Jupillon's bed where she was
sitting. "There's no way. Why, you know perfectly well that I haven't a sou--anything you can
call a sou! You've seen the stockings I wear, haven't you?"

She lifted her skirt and showed him her stockings, all full of holes and tied together with
strings. "I haven't a change of anything. Money? Why, I didn't even have enough to give mademoiselle
a few flowers on her birthday. I bought her a bunch of violets for a sou! Oh! yes, money, indeed!
That last twenty francs--do you know where I got them? I took them out of mademoiselle's box!
I've put them back. But that's done with. I don't want any more of that kind of thing. It will
do for once. Where do you expect me to get money now, just tell me that, will you? You can't
pawn your skin at the Mont-de-Piété--unless!----But as to doing anything of that sort again,
never in my life! Whatever else you choose, but no stealing! I won't do it again. Oh! I know
very well what you will do. So much the worse!"

"Well! have you worked yourself up enough?" said Jupillon. "If you'd told me that about the
twenty francs, do you suppose I'd have taken it? I didn't suppose you were as hard up as all
that. I saw that you went on as usual. I fancied it wouldn't put you out to lend me a twenty-franc
piece, and I'd have returned it in a week or two with the others. But you don't say anything?
Oh! well, I'm done, I won't ask you for any more. But that's no reason we should quarrel, as
I can see." And he added, with an indefinable glance at Germinie: "Till Thursday, eh?"

"Till Thursday!" said Germinie, desperately. She longed to throw herself into Jupillon's arms,
to ask his pardon for her poverty, to say to him: "You see, I can't do it!"

She repeated: "Till Thursday!" and took her leave.

When, on Thursday, she knocked at the door of Jupillon's apartment on the ground floor, she
thought she heard a man's hurried step at the other end of the room. The door opened; before
her stood Jupillon's cousin with her hair in a net, wearing a red jacket and slippers, and
with the costume and bearing of a woman who is at home in a man's house. Her belongings were
tossed about here and there: Germinie saw them on the chairs she had paid for.

"Whom does madame wish to see?" demanded the cousin, impudently.

"Monsieur Jupillon?"

"He has gone out."

"I'll wait for him," said Germinie, and she attempted to enter the other room.

"You'll wait at the porter's lodge then;" and the cousin barred the way.

"When will he return?"

"When the hens have teeth," said the girl, seriously, and shut the door in her face.

"Well! this is just what I expected of him," said Germinie to herself, as she walked along
the street. The pavement seemed to give way beneath her trembling legs.

XLI

When she returned that evening from a christening dinner, which she had been unable to avoid
attending, mademoiselle heard talking in her room. She thought that there was someone with
Germinie, and, marveling thereat, she opened the door. In the dim light shed by an untrimmed,
smoking candle she saw nothing at first; but, upon looking more closely, she discovered her
maid lying in a heap at the foot of the bed.

Germinie was talking in her sleep. She was talking with a strange accent that caused emotion,
almost fear. The vague solemnity of supernatural things, a breath from regions beyond this
life, arose in the room, with those words of sleep, involuntary, fugitive words, palpitating,
half-spoken, as if a soul without a body were wandering about a dead man's lips. The voice
was slow and deep, and had a far-off sound, with long pauses of heavy breathing, and words
breathed forth like sighs, with now and then a vibrating, painful note that went to the heart,--a
voice laden with mystery and with the nervous tremor of the darkness, in which the sleeper
seemed to be groping for souvenirs of the past and passing her hand over faces. "Oh! she loved
me dearly," mademoiselle heard her say. "And if he had not died we should be very happy now,
shouldn't we? No! no! But it's done, worse luck, and I don't want to tell of it."

The words were followed by a nervous contraction of her features as if she sought to seize
her secret on the edge of her lips and force it back.

Mademoiselle, with something very like terror, leaned over the poor, forlorn body, powerless
to direct its own acts, to which the past returned as a ghost returns to a deserted house.
She listened to the confessions that were all ready to rush forth but were instinctively checked,
to the unconscious mind that spoke without restraint, to the voice that did not hear itself.
A sensation of horror came over her: she felt as if she were beside a dead body haunted by a dream.

After a pause of some duration, and what seemed to be a sort of conflict between the things
that were present in her mind, Germinie apparently turned her attention to the circumstances
of her present life. The words that escaped her, disjointed, incoherent words, were, as far
as mademoiselle could understand them, addressed to some person by way of reproach. And as
she talked on, her language became as unrecognizable as her voice, which had taken on the tone
and accent of the dreamer. It rose above the woman, above her ordinary style, above her daily
expressions. It was the language of the people, purified and transfigured by passion. Germinie
accentuated words according to their orthography; she uttered them with all their eloquence.
The sentences came from her mouth with their proper rhythm, their heart-rending pathos and
their tears, as from the mouth of an admirable actress. There were bursts of tenderness, interlarded
with shrieks; then there were outbreaks of rebellion, fierce bursts of passion, and the most
extraordinary, biting, implacable irony, always merging into a paroxysm of nervous laughter
that repeated the same result and prolonged it from echo to echo. Mademoiselle was confounded,
stupefied, and listened as at the theatre. Never had she heard disdain hurled down from so
lofty a height, contempt so tear itself to tatters and gush forth in laughter, a woman's words
express such a fierce thirst for vengeance against a man. She ransacked her memory: such play
of feature, such intonations, such a dramatic and heart-rending voice as that voice of a consumptive
coughing away her life, she could not remember since the days of Mademoiselle Rachel.

At last Germinie awoke abruptly, her eyes filled with the tears of her dream, and jumped down
from the bed, seeing that her mistress had returned. "Thanks," said mademoiselle, "don't disturb
yourself! Wallow about on my bed all you please!"

"Oh! mademoiselle," said Germinie, "I wasn't lying where you put your head. I have made it
nice and warm for your feet."

"Indeed! Suppose you tell me what you've been dreaming? There was a man in it--you were having
a dispute with him----"

"Dream?" said Germinie, "I don't remember."

She silently set about undressing her mistress, trying to recall her dream. When she had put
her in bed, she said, drawing near to her: "Ah! mademoiselle, won't you give me a fortnight,
for once, to go home? I remember now."

XLII

Soon after this, mademoiselle was amazed to notice an entire change in her maid's manner and
habits. Germinie no longer had her sullen, savage moods, her outbreaks of rebellion, her fits
of muttering words expressive of discontent. She suddenly threw off her indolence and became
once more an energetic worker. She no longer passed hours in doing her marketing; she seemed
to avoid the street. She ceased to go out in the evening; indeed, she hardly stirred from mademoiselle's
side, hovering about her and watching her from the time she rose in the morning until she went
to bed at night, lavishing continuous, incessant, almost irritating attentions upon her, never
allowing her to rise or even to put out her hand for anything, waiting upon her and keeping
watch of her as if she were a child. At times mademoiselle was so worn out with her, so weary
of this constant fussing about her person, that she would open her mouth to say: "Come, come!
aren't you almost ready to clear out!" But Germinie would look up at her with a smile, a smile
so sad and sweet that it checked the impatient exclamation on the old maid's lips. And so she
stayed on with her, going about with a sort of fascinated, divinely stolid air, in the impassibility
of profound adoration, buried in almost idiotic contemplation.

At that period all the poor girl's affection turned to mademoiselle. Her voice, her gestures,
her eyes, her silence, her thoughts, went out to her mistress with the fervor of expiation,
with the contrition of a prayer, the rapt intensity of a cult. She loved her with all the loving
violence of her nature. She loved her with all the deceptive ardor of her passion. She strove
to give her all that she had not given her, all that others had taken from her. Every day her
love clung more closely, more devoutly, to the old maid, who was conscious of being enveloped,
embraced, agreeably warmed by the heat from those two arms that were thrown about her old age.

XLIII

But the past and its debts were still there, and whispered to her every hour: "If mademoiselle
knew!"

She lived in the constant panic of a guilty woman, trembling with dread from morning till night.
There was never a ring at the door that she did not say to herself: "It has come at last!"
Letters in a strange handwriting filled her with anxiety. She would feel of the wax with her
fingers, bury the letters in her pocket, hesitate about delivering them, and the moment when
mademoiselle unfolded the terrible paper and scanned its contents with the inexpressive eye
of elderly people was as full of suspense to her as if she were awaiting sentence of death.
She felt that her secret and her falsehood were in everybody's hand. The house had seen her
and might speak. The quarter knew her as she was. Of all about her, there was no one but her
mistress whose esteem she could still steal.

As she went in and out, the concierge looked at her with a smile and a glance, that said: "I
know." She no longer dared to call him: "My Pipelet." When she returned home he looked into
her basket. "I am so fond of that!" his wife would say, when it contained some tempting morsel.
At night she would take down what was left. She ate nothing herself. She ended by supplying
them with food.

The whole street frightened her no less than the hall and the porter's lodge. There was a face
in every shop that reflected her shame and commented on her sins. At every step she had to
purchase silence by groveling humility. The dealers she had not been able to repay had her
in their clutches. If she said that anything was too dear, she was reminded in a bantering
way that they were her masters, and that she must pay the price unless she chose to be denounced.
A jest or an allusion drove the color from her cheeks. She was bound to them, compelled to
trade with them and to allow them to empty her pockets as if they were accomplices. The successor
of Madame Jupillon, who had gone into the grocery business at Bar-sur Aube,--the new crémière,--gave
her bad milk, and when she suggested that mademoiselle complained about it, and that she was
found fault with every morning, the woman replied: "Much you care for your mademoiselle!" And
at the fish-stall, if she smelt of a fish, and said: "This has been frozen," the reply would
be: "Bah! tell me next, will you, that I let the moon shine on their gills, so's to make 'em
look fresh! So these are hard days for you, eh, my duck?" Mademoiselle wanted her to go to
the Halle Centrale one day for her dinner, and she mentioned the fact in the fish-woman's presence.
"Oho! yes, yes, to the Halle! I'd like to see you go to the Halle!" And she bestowed a glance
upon her in which Germinie saw a threat to send her account to her mistress. The grocer sold
her coffee that smelt of snuff, rotten prunes, dried rice and old biscuit. If she ventured
to remonstrate, "Nonsense!" he would say; "an old customer like you wouldn't want to make trouble
for me. Don't I tell you I give you good weight?" And he would coolly give her false weight
of the goods that she ordered, and that he forced her to order.

XLIV

It was a very great trial to Germinie--a trial that she sought, however--to have to pass through
a street where there was a school for young girls, when she went out before dinner to buy an
evening paper for mademoiselle. She often happened to be at the door when the school was dismissed;
she tried to run away--and stood still.

At first there would be a sound like that made by a swarm of bees, a buzzing and humming, one
of those great outbursts of childish joy that wake the echoes in the streets of Paris. From
the dark and narrow passageway leading to the schoolroom the children would rush forth as if
escaping from an open cage, and run about and frolic in the sunlight. They would push and jostle
one another, and toss their empty baskets in the air. Then some would call to one another and
form little groups; tiny hands would go forth to meet other tiny hands; friends would take
one another by the arm or put their arms around one another's waists or necks, and walk along
nibbling at the same tart. Soon the whole band would be in motion, walking slowly up the filthy
street with loitering step. The larger ones, ten years old at most, would stop and talk, like
little women, at the portes cochères. Others would stop to drink from their luncheon bottles.
The smaller ones would amuse themselves by dipping the soles of their shoes in the gutter.
And there were some who made a headdress of a cabbage leaf picked up from the ground,--a green
cap sent by the good God, beneath which the fresh young face smiled brightly.

Germinie would gaze at them all and walk along with them; she would go in among them in order
to feel the rustling of their aprons. She could not take her eyes off the little arms under
which the school satchels leaped about, the little pea-green dresses, the little black leggings,
the little legs in the little woolen stockings. In her eyes there was a sort of divine light
about all those little flaxen heads, with the soft hair of the child Jesus. A little stray
lock upon a little neck, a bit of baby flesh above a chemise or at the end of a sleeve--at
times she saw nothing but that; it was to her all the sunshine of the street--and the sky!

Gradually the troop dwindled away. Each street took some children away to neighboring streets.
The school dispersed along the road. The gaiety of all the tiny footsteps died away little
by little. The little dresses disappeared one by one. Germinie followed the last, she attached
herself to those who went the farthest.

On one occasion, as she was walking along thus, devouring with her eyes the memory of her daughter,
she was suddenly seized with a frenzied longing to embrace something; she rushed at one of
the little girls and grasped her arm just as a kidnapper of children would do. "Mamma! mamma!"
the little one cried, and wept as she pulled her arm away.

Germinie fled.

XLV

To Germinie all days were alike, equally gloomy and desolate. She had reached a point at last
where she expected nothing from chance and asked nothing from the unforeseen. Her life seemed
to her to be forever encaged in her despair; it would always be the same implacable thing,
the same straight, monotonous road to misfortune, the same dark path with death at the end.
In all the time to come there was no future for her.

And yet, in the depths of despair in which she was crouching, thoughts passed through her mind
at times which made her raise her head and look before her to a point beyond the present. At
times the illusion of a last hope smiled upon her. It seemed to her that she might even yet
be happy, and that if certain things should come to pass, she would be. Thereupon she imagined
that those things did happen. She arranged incidents and catastrophes. She linked the impossible
to the impossible. She reconstructed the opportunities of her life. And her fevered hope, setting
about the task of creating events according to her desire on the horizon of the future, soon
became intoxicated with the insane vision of her suppositions.

Then the delirious hope would gradually fade away. She would tell herself that it was impossible,
that nothing of what she dreamed of could happen, and she would sink back in her chair and
think. After a moment or two she would rise and walk, slowly and uncertainly, to the fireplace,
toy with the coffee-pot on the mantelpiece, and at last decide to take it: she would learn
what the rest of her life was to be. Her good fortune, her ill fortune, everything that was
to happen to her was there, in that fortune-telling device of the woman of the people, on the
plate on which she was about to pour the coffee-grounds. She drained the water from the grounds,
waited a few minutes, breathed upon them with the religious breath with which her lips, as
a child, touched the paten at the village church. Then she leaned over them, with her head
thrust forward, terrifying in her immobility, with her eyes fixed intently upon the black dust
scattered in patches over the plate. She sought what she had seen fortune-tellers find in the
granulations and the almost imperceptible traces left by the coffee as it trickled away. She
fatigued her eyes by gazing at the innumerable little spots, and deciphered shapes and letters
and signs therein. She put aside some grains with her finger in order to see them more clearly
and more sharply defined. She turned the plate slowly in her hands, this way and that, questioned
its mystery on all sides, and hunted down, within its circular rim, apparitions, images, rudiments
of names, shadowy initials, resemblances to different people, rough outlines of objects, omens
in embryo, symbols of trifles, which told her that she would be victorious. She wanted to see
these things and she compelled herself to discover them. Under her tense gaze the porcelain
became alive with the visions of her insomnia; her disappointments, her hatreds, the faces
she detested, arose gradually from the magic plate and the designs drawn thereon by chance.
By her side the candle, which she forgot to snuff, gave forth an intermittent, dying light:
it sank lower and lower in the silence, night came on apace, and Germinie, as if turned to
stone in her agony, always remained rooted there, alone and face to face with her fear of the
future, trying to decipher in the dregs of the coffee the confused features of her destiny,
until she thought she could detect a cross, beside a woman who resembled Jupillon's cousin--a
cross, that is to say, a speedy death.

XLVI

The love which she lacked, and which it was her determination to deny herself, became the torment
of her life, incessant, abominable torture. She had to defend herself against the fevers of
her body and the irritations from without, against the easily aroused emotions and the indolent
cowardice of her flesh, against all the solicitations of nature by which she was assailed.
She had to contend with the heat of the day, with the suggestions of the darkness, with the
moist warmth of stormy weather, with the breath of her past and her memories, with the pictures
suddenly thrown upon the background of her mind, with the voices that whispered caressingly
in her ear, with the emotions that sent a thrill of tenderness into her every limb.

Weeks, months, years, the frightful temptation endured, and she did not yield or take another
lover. Fearful of herself, she avoided man and fled from his sight. She continued her domestic,
unsocial habits, always closeted with mademoiselle, or else above in her own room. On Sundays
she did not leave the house. She had ceased to consort with the other maids in the house, and,
in order to occupy her time and forget herself, she plunged into vast undertakings in the way
of sewing, or buried herself in sleep. When musicians came into the courtyard she closed the
windows in order not to hear them: the sensuousness of music moved her very soul.

In spite of everything, she could not calm or cool her passions. Her evil thoughts rekindled
themselves, lived and flourished upon themselves. At every moment the fixed idea of desire
arose from her whole being, became throughout her body the fierce torment that knows no end,
that delirium of the senses, obsession,--the obsession that nothing can dispel and that constantly
returns, the shameless, implacable obsession, swarming with images, the obsession that brings
love close to the woman's every sense, that touches with it her closed eyes, forces it smoking
into her brain and pours it, hot as fire, into her arteries!

At length, the nervous exhaustion caused by these constant assaults, the irritation of this
painful continence, began to disturb Germinie's faculties. She fancied that she could see her
temptations: a ghastly hallucination brought the realization of her dreams near to her senses.
It happened that at certain moments the things she saw in her room, the candlesticks, the legs
of the chairs, everything about her assumed impure appearances and shapes. Obscenity arose
from everything before her eyes and approached her. At such times she would look at her kitchen
clock, and would say, like a condemned man whose body no longer belongs to himself: "In five
minutes I am going down into the street." And when the five minutes had passed she would stay
where she was.

XLVII

The time came at last in this life of torture when Germinie abandoned the conflict. Her conscience
yielded, her will succumbed, she bowed her head beneath her destiny. All that remained to her
of resolution, energy, courage, vanished before the feeling, the despairing conviction, of
her powerlessness to save herself from herself. She felt that she was being borne along on
a resistless current, that it was useless, almost impious, to try to stop. That great power
of the world that causes suffering, the malevolent power that bears the name of a god on the
marble of the antique tragedies, and is called No Chance on the tattooed brow of the galley-slave--Fatality--was
trampling upon her, and Germinie lowered her head beneath its foot.

When, in her hours of discouragement, the bitter experiences of her past recurred to her memory,
when she followed, from her infancy, the links in the chain of her deplorable existence, that
long line of afflictions that had followed her years and grown heavier with them; all the incidents
that had succeeded one another in her life, as if by preconcerted arrangement on the part of
misery, without her having ever caught a glimpse of the hand of the Providence of which she
had heard so much--she said to herself that she was one of those miserable creatures who are
destined from their birth to an eternity of misery, one of those for whom happiness was not
made, and who know it only because they envy it in others. She fed and nourished herself on
that thought, and by dint of yielding to the despair it tended to produce, by dint of brooding
over the unbroken chain of her misfortunes and the endless succession of her disappointments,
she reached the point where she looked upon the most trifling annoyances of her life and her
service as a part of the persecution of her evil genius. A little money that she loaned and
that was not repaid, a counterfeit coin that was put off upon her in a shop, an errand that
she failed to perform satisfactorily, a purchase in which she was cheated--all these things
were in her opinion due neither to her own fault nor to chance. It was the sequel of what had
gone before. Life was in a conspiracy against her and persecuted her everywhere, in everything,
great and small, from her daughter's death to bad groceries. There were days when she broke
everything she touched; she thereupon imagined that she was accursed to her finger-tips. Accursed!
almost damned; she persuaded herself that she was so in very truth, when she questioned her
body, when she probed her feelings. Did she not feel, in the fire in her blood, in the appetite
of her organs, in her passionate weakness, the spur of the Fatality of Love, the mystery and
obsession of a disease, stronger than her modesty and her reason, having already delivered
her over to the shameful excesses of passion, and destined--she had a presentiment that it
was so--to deliver her again in the same way?

And so she had one sentence always in her mouth, a sentence that was the refrain of her thought:
"What can you expect? I am unlucky. I have had no chance. From the beginning nothing ever succeeded
with me!" She said it in the tone of a woman who has abandoned hope. With the persuasion, every
day more firm, that she was born under an unlucky star, that she was in the power of hatred
and vengeance that were more powerful than she, Germinie had come to be afraid of everything
that happens in ordinary life. She lived in that state of cowardly unrest wherein the unexpected
is dreaded as a possible calamity, wherein a ring at the bell causes alarm, wherein one turns
a letter over and over, weighing the mystery it contains, not daring to open it, wherein the
news you are about to hear, the mouth that opens to speak to you, cause the perspiration to
start upon your temples. She was in that state of suspicion, of shuddering fear, of trembling
awe in face of destiny, wherein misfortune sees naught but misfortune, and wherein one would
like to check the current of his life so that it should not go forward whither all the endeavors
and the attacks of others are forcing it.

At last, by virtue of the tears she shed, she arrived at that supreme disdain, that climax
of suffering, where the excess of pain seems a satire, where chagrin, exceeding the utmost
limits of human strength, exceeds its sensibility as well, and the stricken heart, which no
longer feels the blows, says to the Heaven it defies: "Go on!"

XLVIII

"Where are you going in that rig?" said Germinie one Sunday morning to Adèle, as she passed
in grand array along the corridor on the sixth floor, in front of her open door.

"Ah! there you are! I'm going to a swell wedding, my dear! There's a crowd of us--big Marie,
the great bully, you know--Elisa, from 41, the two Badiniers, big and little--and men, too!
In the first place, there's my dealer in sudden death. Yes, and--Oh! didn't you know--my new
flame, the master-at-arms of the 24th--and a friend of his, a painter, a real Father Joy. We're
going to Vincennes. Everyone carries something. We shall dine on the grass--the men will pay
for the wine. And there'll be plenty of it, I promise you!"

"I'll go, too," said Germinie.

"You? nonsense! you don't go to parties any more."

"But I tell you I'll go," said Germinie, in a sharp, decided tone. "Just give me time to tell
mademoiselle and put on a dress. If you'll wait I'll go and get half a lobster."

Half an hour later the two women left the house; they skirted the city wall and found the rest
of the party sitting outside a café on Boulevard de la Chopinette. After taking a glass of
currant wine, they entered two large cabs and rode away. When they arrived at the fortress
at Vincennes they alighted and the whole party walked along the bank of the moat. As they were
passing under the wall of the fort, the master-at-arms' friend, the painter, shouted to an
artilleryman, who was doing sentry duty beside a cannon: "Say! old fellow, you'd rather drink
one than stand guard over it, eh?"[1]

"Isn't he funny?" said Adèle to Germinie, nudging her with her elbow.

Soon they were fairly in the forest of Vincennes.

Narrow paths crossed and recrossed in every direction on the hard, uneven, footprint-covered
ground. In the spaces between all these little roads there was here and there a little grass,
but down-trodden, withered, yellow, dead grass, strewn about like bedding for cattle, its straw-colored
blades were everywhere mingled with briars, amid the dull green of nettles. It was easily recognizable
as one of the rural spots to which the great faubourgs resort on Sundays to loll about in the
grass, and which resemble a lawn trampled by a crowd after a display of fireworks. Gnarled,
misshapen trees were scattered here and there; dwarf elms with gray trunks covered with yellow,
leprous-like spots and stripped of branches to a point higher than a man's head; scraggy oaks,
eaten by caterpillars so that their leaves were like lacework. The verdure was scant and sickly
and entirely unshaded, the leaves above had a very unhealthy look; the stunted, ragged, parched
foliage made only faint green lines against the sky. Clouds of dust from the high-roads covered
the bushes with a gray pall. Everything had the wretched, impoverished aspect of trampled vegetation
that has no chance to breathe, the melancholy effect of the grass at the barriers! Nature seemed
to sprout from beneath the pavements. No birds sang in the trees, no insects hummed about the
dusty ground; the noise of the spring-carts stunned the birds; the hand-organ put the rustling
of the trees to silence; the denizens of the street strolled about through the paths, singing.
Women's hats, fastened with four pins to a handkerchief, were hanging from the trees; the red
plume of an artilleryman burst upon one at every moment through the scanty leaves; dealers
in honey rose from the thickets; on the trampled greensward children in blouses were cutting
twigs, workingmen's families idling their time away nibbling at pleasure, and little urchins
catching butterflies in their caps. It was a forest after the pattern of the original Bois
de Boulogne, hot and dusty, a much-frequented and sadly-abused promenade, one of those spots,
avaricious of shade, to which the common people flock to disport themselves at the gates of
great capitals--burlesque forests, filled with corks, where you find slices of melon and skeletons
in the underbrush.

The heat on this day was stifling; the sun was swimming in clouds, shedding a veiled diffuse
light that was almost blinding to the eyes and that seemed to portend a storm. The air was
heavy and dead; nothing stirred; the leaves and their tiny, meagre shadows did not move; the
forest seemed weary and crushed, as it were, beneath the heavy sky. At rare intervals a breath
of air from the south passed lazily along, sweeping the ground, one of those enervating, lifeless
winds that blow upon the senses and fan the breath of desire into a flame. With no knowledge
whence it came, Germinie felt over her whole body a sensation like the tickling of the down
on a ripe peach against the skin.

They went gayly along, with the somewhat excited activity that the country air imparts to the
common people. The men ran, the women tripped after them and caught them. They played at rolling
on the grass. There was a manifest longing to dance and climb trees; the painter amused himself
by throwing stones at the loop-holes in the gateways of the fortress, and he never missed his aim.

