In 1814 the Serampore Bible translation college, as we may call it, began the preparation of
the New Testament in Maghadi, another of the languages allied to the Bengali, and derived from
the Sanskrit through the Pali, because that was the vernacular of Buddhism in its original
seat; an edition of 1000 copies appeared in 1824.  It was intended to publish a version in
the Maithili language of Bihar, which has a literature stretching back to the fourteenth century,
that every class might have the Word of God in their own dialect. But Carey's literary enthusiasm
and scholarship had by this time done so much to develop and extend the power of Bengali proper,
that it had begun to supersede all such dialects, except Ooriya and the northern vernaculars
of the valley of the Brahmapootra.  In 1810 the Serampore press added the Assamese New Testament
to its achievements.  In 1819 the first edition appeared, in 1826 the province became British,
and in 1832 Carey had the satisfaction of issuing the Old Testament, and setting apart Mr.
Rae, a Scottish soldier, who had settled there, as the first missionary at Gowhatti. To these
must be added, as in the Bengali character though non-Aryan languages, versions in Khasi and
Manipoori, the former for the democratic tribes of the Khasia hills among whom the Welsh Calvinists
have since worked, and the latter for the curious Hindoo snake-people on the border of Burma,
who have taught Europe the game of polo.

Another immediate successor of the Bengali translation was the Marathi, of which also Carey
was professor in the College of Fort William.  By 1804 he was himself hard at work on this
version, by 1811 the first edition of the New Testament appeared, and by 1820 the Old Testament
left the press.  It was in a dialect peculiar to Nagpoor, and was at first largely circulated
by Lieutenant Moxon in the army there.  In 1812 Carey sent the missionary Aratoon to Bombay
and Surat just after Henry Martyn had written that the only Christian in the city who understood
his evangelical sermon was a ropemaker just arrived from England.  At the same time he was
busy with a version in the dialect of the Konkan, the densely-peopled coast district to the
south of Bombay city, inhabited chiefly by the ablest Brahmanical race in India.  In 1819 the
New Testament appeared in this translation, having been under preparation at Serampore for
eleven years.  Thus Carey sought to turn to Christ the twelve millions of Hindoos who, from
Western India above and below the great coast-range known as the Sahyadri or "delectable" mountains,
had nearly wrested the whole peninsula from the Mohammedans, and had almost anticipated the
life-giving rule of the British, first at Panipat and then as Assye.  Meanwhile new missionaries
had been taking possession of those western districts where the men of Serampore had sowed
the first seed and reaped the first fruits.  The charter of 1813 made it possible for the American
Missionaries to land there, and for the local Bible Society to spring into existence.  Dr.
John Wilson and his Scottish colleagues followed them.  Carey and his brethren welcomed these
and retired from that field, confining themselves to providing, during the next seven years,
a Goojarati version for the millions of Northern Bombay, including the hopeful Parsees, and
resigning that, too, to the London Missionary Society after issuing the New Testament in 1820.

Mr. Christopher Anderson justly remarks, in his Annals of the English Bible, published half
a century ago:--"Time will show, and in a very singular manner, that every version, without
exception, which came from Carey's hands, has a value affixed to it which the present generation,
living as it were too near an object, is not yet able to estimate or descry.  Fifty years hence
the character of this extraordinary and humble man will be more correctly appreciated."

In none of the classes of languages derived from the Sanskrit was the zeal of Carey and his
associates so remarkable as in the Hindi. So early as 1796 he wrote of this the most widely
extended offspring of the Sanskrit:--"I have acquired so much of the Hindi as to converse in
it and preach for some time intelligibly...It is the current language of all the west from
Rajmahal to Delhi, and perhaps farther.  With this I can be understood nearly all over Hindostan."
By the time that he issued the sixth memoir of the translations Chamberlain's experiences in
North-Western India led Carey to write that he had ascertained the existence of twenty dialects
of Hindi, with the same vocabulary but different sets of terminations.  The Bruj or Brijbhasa
Gospels were finished in 1813, two years after Chamberlain had settled in Agra, and the New
Testament was completed nine years after.  This version of the Gospels led the Brahman priest,
Anand Masih, to Christ.  In their eagerness for a copy of the Old Testament, which appeared
in 1818, many Sepoys brought testimonials from their commanding officers, and in one year it
led eighteen converts to Christ.  The other Hindi dialects, in which the whole New Testament
or the Gospels appeared, will be found at page 177 {see footnote number 16}.  The parent Hindi
translation was made by Carey with his own hand from the original languages between 1802 and
1807, and ran through many large editions till Mr. Chamberlain's was preferred by Carey himself
in 1819.

We may pass over the story of the Dravidian versions, the Telugoo[20] New Testament and Pentateuch,
and the Kanarese.  Nor need we do more than refer to the Singhalese, "derived from the previous
labours of Dr. Carey" by Tolfrey, the Persian, Malayalam, and other versions made by others,
but edited or carefully carried through the press by Carey. The wonderful tale of his Bible
work is well illustrated by a man who, next to the Lawrences, was the greatest Englishman who
has governed the Punjab frontier, the hero of Mr. Ruskin's book, A Knight's Faith.  In that
portion of his career which Sir Herbert Edwardes gave to the world under the title of A Year
on the Punjab Frontier in 1848-49, and in which he describes his bloodless conquest of the
wild valley of Bunnoo, we find this gem embedded. The writer was at the time in the Gundapoor
country, of which Kulachi is the trade-centre between the Afghan pass of Ghwalari and Dera
Ismail Kan, where the dust of Sir Henry Durand now lies:--

"A highly interesting circumstance connected with the Indian trade came under my notice.  Ali
Khan, Gundapoor, the uncle of the present chief, Gooldâd Khan, told me he could remember well,
as a youth, being sent by his father and elder brother with a string of Cabul horses to the
fair of Hurdwâr, on the Ganges.  He also showed me a Pushtoo version of the Bible, printed
at Serampore in 1818, which he said had been given him thirty years before at Hurdwâr by an
English gentleman, who told him to 'take care of it, and neither fling it into the fire nor
the river; but hoard it up against the day when the British should be rulers of his country!'
Ali Khan said little to anybody of his possessing this book, but put it carefully by in a linen
cover, and produced it with great mystery when I came to settle the revenue of his nephew's
country, 'thinking that the time predicted by the Englishman had arrived!'  The only person,
I believe, to whom he had shown the volume was a Moolluh, who read several passages in the
Old Testament, and told Ali Khan 'it was a true story, and was all about their own Muhommudan
prophets, Father Moses and Father Noah.'

"I examined the book with great interest.  It was not printed in the Persian character, but
the common Pushtoo language of Afghanistan; and was the only specimen I had ever seen of Pushtoo
reduced to writing. The accomplishment of such a translation was a highly honourable proof
of the zeal and industry of the Serampore mission; and should these pages ever meet the eye
of Mr. John Marshman, of Serampore,[21] whose own pen is consistently guided by a love of civil
order and religious truth, he may probably be able to identify 'the English gentleman' who,
thirty-two years ago on the banks of the Ganges, at the then frontier of British India, gave
to a young Afghan chief, from beyond the distant Indus, a Bible in his own barbarous tongue,
and foresaw the day when the followers of the 'Son of David' should extend their dominion to
the 'Throne of Solomon.'"

Hurdwâr, as the spot at which the Ganges debouches into the plains, is the scene of the greatest
pilgrim gathering in India, especially every twelfth year.  Then three millions of people used
to assemble, and too often carried, all over Asia, cholera which extended to Europe.  The missionaries
made this, like most pilgrim resorts, a centre of preaching and Bible circulation, and doubtless
it was from Thompson, Carey's Missionary at Delhi, that this copy of the Pushtoo Bible was
received.  It was begun by Dr. Leyden, and continued for seven years by the same Afghan maulavee
under Carey, in the Arabic character.  The Punjabi Bible, nearly complete, issued first in
1815, had become so popular by 1820 as to lead Carey to report of the Sikhs that no one of
the nations of India had discovered a stronger desire for the Scriptures than this hardy race.
At Amritsar and Lahore "the book of Jesus is spoken of, is read, and has caused a considerable
stir in the minds of the people."  A Thug, asked how he could have committed so many murders,
pointed to it and said, "If I had had this book I could not have done it."  A fakeer, forty
miles from Lodiana, read the book, founded the community of worshippers of the Sachi Pitè Isa,
and suffered much persecution in a native State.

When Felix Carey returned to Serampore in 1812 to print his Burmese version of the Gospel of
Matthew and his Burmese grammar, his father determined to send the press at which they were
completed to Rangoon. The three missionaries despatched with it a letter to the king of Ava,
commending to his care "their beloved brethren, who from love to his majesty's subjects had
voluntarily gone to place themselves under his protection, while they translated the Bible,
the Book of Heaven, which was received and revered" by all the countries of Europe and America
as "the source whence all the knowledge of virtue and religion was drawn." The king at once
ordered from Serampore a printing-press, like that at Rangoon, for his own palace at Ava, with
workmen to use it.  In this Carey saw the beginning of a mission in the Burman capital, but
God had other designs which the sons and daughters of America, following Judson first of all,
are still splendidly developing, from Rangoon to Kareng-nee, Siam, and China.  The ship containing
the press sank in the Rangoon river, and the first Burmese war soon followed.

Three months after the complete and magnificent plan of translating the Bible into all the
languages of the far East, which the assistance of his two colleagues and the college of Fort
William led Carey to form, had been laid before Fuller in Northamptonshire, the British and
Foreign Bible Society was founded in London.  Joseph Hughes, the Nonconformist who was its
first secretary, had been moved by the need of the Welsh for the Bible in their own tongue.
But the ex-Governor-General, Lord Teignmouth, became its first president, and the Serampore
translators at once turned for assistance to the new organisation whose work Carey had individually
been doing for ten years at the cost of his two associates and himself.  The catholic Bible
Society at once asked Carey's old friend, Mr. Udny, then a member of the Government in Calcutta,
to form a corresponding committee there of the three missionaries--their chaplain friends,
Brown and Buchanan, and himself.  The chaplains delayed the formation of the committee till
1809, but liberally helped meanwhile in the circulation of the other appeals issued from Serampore,
and even made the proposal which resulted in Dr. Marshman's wonderful version of the Bible
in Chinese and Ward's improvements in Chinese printing.  To the principal tributary sovereigns
of India Dr. Buchanan sent copies of the vernacular Scriptures already published.

From 1809 till 1830, or practically through the rest of Carey's life, the co-operation of Serampore
and the Bible Society was honourable to both.  Carey loyally clung to it when in 1811, under
the spell of Henry Martyn's sermon on Christian India, the chaplains established the Calcutta
Auxiliary Bible Society in order to supersede its corresponding committee.  In the Serampore
press the new auxiliary, like the parent Society, found the cheapest and best means of publishing
editions of the New Testament in Singhalese, Malayalam, and Tamil.  The press issued also the
Persian New Testament, first of the Romanist missionary, Sebastiani--"though it be not wholly
free from imperfections, it will doubtless do much good," wrote Dr. Marshman to Fuller--and
then of Henry Martyn, whose assistant, Sabat, was trained at Serampore.  Those three of Serampore
had a Christ-like tolerance, which sprang from the divine charity of their determination to
live only that the Word of God might sound out through Asia. When in 1830 this auxiliary--which
had at first sought to keep all missionaries out of its executive in order to conciliate men
like Sydney Smith's brother, the Advocate-General of Bengal--refused to use the translations
of Carey and Yates, and inclined to an earlier version of Ellerton, because of the translation
or transliteration of the Greek words for "baptism," these two scholars acted thus, as described
by the Bible Society's annalist--they, "with a liberality which does them honour, permitted
the use of their respective versions of the Bengali Scriptures, with such alterations as were
deemed needful in the disputed word for 'baptism,' they being considered in no way parties
to such alterations."  From first to last the British and Foreign Bible Society, to use its
own language, "had the privilege of aiding the Serampore brethren by grants, amounting to not
less than £13,500."  Of this £1475 had been raised by Mr. William Hey, F.R.S., a surgeon at
Leeds, who had been so moved by the translation memoir of 1816 as to offer £500 for the publication
of a thousand copies of every approved first translation of the New Testament into any dialect
of India.  It was with this assistance that most of the Hindi and the Pushtoo and Punjabi versions
were produced.

The cold season of 1811-12 was one ever to be remembered.  Death entered the home of each of
the staff of seven missionaries and carried off wife or children.  An earthquake of unusual
violence alarmed the natives.  Dr. Carey had buried a grandson, and was at his weekly work
in the college at Calcutta.  The sun had just set on the evening of the 11th March 1812, and
the native typefounders, compositors, pressmen, binders, and writers had gone.  Ward alone
lingered in the waning light at his desk settling an account with a few servants.  His two
rooms formed the north end of the long printing-office.  The south rooms were filled with paper
and printed materials.  Close beyond was the paper-mill.  The Bible-publishing enterprise was
at its height. Fourteen founts of Oriental types, new supplies of Hebrew, Greek, and English
types, a vast stock of paper from the Bible Society, presses, priceless manuscripts of dictionaries,
grammars, and translations, and, above all, the steel punches of the Eastern letters--all were
there, with the deeds and account-books of the property, and the iron safe containing notes
and rupees.  Suffocating smoke burst from the long type-room into the office.  Rushing through
it to observe the source of the fire, he was arrested at the southern rooms by the paper store.
Returning with difficulty and joined by Marshman and the natives, he had every door and window
closed, and then mounting the south roof, he had water poured through it upon the burning mass
for four hours, with the most hopeful prospect of arresting the ruin.  While he was busy with
Marshman in removing the papers in the north end some one opened a window, when the air set
the entire building on flame.  By midnight the roof fell in along its whole length, and the
column of fire leapt up towards heaven.  With "solemn serenity" the members of the mission
family remained seated in front of the desolation.

The ruins were still smoking when next evening Dr. Carey arrived from Calcutta, which was ringing
with the sad news.  The venerable scholar had suffered most, for his were the manuscripts;
the steel punches were found uninjured.  The Sikh and Telugoo grammars and ten Bible versions
in the press were gone.  Second editions of Confucius.  A Dissertation on the Chinese Language,
and of Ward on the Hindoos, and smaller works were destroyed.  The translation of the Ramayana,
on which he and Marshman had been busy for a year, was stopped for ever; fifty years after
the present writer came upon some charred sheets of the fourth volume, which had been on the
press and rescued.  The Circular Letter for April 1812 is printed on paper scorched at the
edge.  Worst of all was the loss of that polyglot dictionary of all the languages derived from
the Sanskrit which, if Carey had felt any of this world's ambition, would have perpetuated
his name in the first rank of philologists.

With the delicacy which always marked him Dr. Marshman had himself gone down to Calcutta next
morning to break the news to Carey, who received it with choking utterance.  The two then called
on the friendly chaplain, Thomason, who burst into tears.  When the afternoon tide enabled
the three to reach Serampore, after a two hours' hard pull at the flood, they found Ward rejoicing.
He had been all day clearing away the rubbish, and had just discovered the punches and matrices
unharmed.  The five presses too were untouched. He had already opened out a long warehouse
nearer the river-shore, the lease of which had fallen in to them, and he had already planned
the occupation of that uninviting place in which the famous press of Serampore and, at the
last, the Friend of India weekly newspaper found a home till 1875.  The description of the
scene and of its effect on Carey by an eye-witness like Thomason has a value of its own:--

"The year 1812 was ushered in by an earthquake which was preceded by a loud noise; the house
shook; the oil in the lamps on the walls was thrown out; the birds made a frightful noise;
the natives ran from their houses, calling on the names of their gods; the sensation is most
awful; we read the forty-sixth Psalm.  This fearful prodigy was succeeded by that desolating
disaster, the Serampore fire.  I could scarcely believe the report; it was like a blow on the
head which stupefies.  I flew to Serampore to witness the desolation.  The scene was indeed
affecting.  The immense printing-office, two hundred feet long and fifty broad, reduced to
a mere shell.  The yard covered with burnt quires of paper, the loss in which article was immense.
Carey walked with me over the smoking ruins.  The tears stood in his eyes. 'In one short evening,'
said he, 'the labours of years are consumed. How unsearchable are the ways of God!  I had lately
brought some things to the utmost perfection of which they seemed capable, and contemplated
the missionary establishment with perhaps too much self-congratulation. The Lord has laid me
low, that I may look more simply to Him.' Who could stand in such a place, at such a time,
with such a man, without feelings of sharp regret and solemn exercise of mind.  I saw the ground
strewed with half-consumed paper, on which in the course of a very few months the words of
life would have been printed.  The metal under our feet amidst the ruins was melted into misshapen
lumps--the sad remains of beautiful types consecrated to the service of the sanctuary.  All
was smiling and promising a few hours before--now all is vanished into smoke or converted into
rubbish! Return now to thy books, regard God in all thou doest.  Learn Arabic with humility.
Let God be exalted in all thy plans, and purposes, and labours; He can do without thee."

Carey himself thus wrote of the disaster to Dr. Ryland:--"25th March 1812.--The loss is very
great, and will long be severely felt; yet I can think of a hundred circumstances which would
have made it much more difficult to bear.  The Lord has smitten us, he had a right to do so,
and we deserve his corrections.  I wish to submit to His sovereign will, nay, cordially to
acquiesce therein, and to examine myself rigidly to see what in me has contributed to this evil.

"I now, however, turn to the bright side; and here I might mention what still remains to us,
and the merciful circumstances which attend even this stroke of God's rod; but I will principally
notice what will tend to cheer the heart of every one who feels for the cause of God. Our loss,
so far as I can see, is reparable in a much shorter time than I should at first have supposed.
The Tamil fount of types was the first that we began to recast.  I expect it will be finished
by the end of this week, just a fortnight after it was begun.  The next will be the small Devanagari,
for the Hindostani Scriptures, and next the larger for the Sanskrit.  I hope this will be completed
in another month.  The other founts, viz., Bengali, Orissa, Sikh, Telinga, Singhalese, Mahratta,
Burman, Kashmeerian, Arabic, Persian, and Chinese, will follow in order, and will probably
be finished in six or seven months, except the Chinese, which will take more than a year to
replace it.  I trust, therefore, that we shall not be greatly delayed.  Our English works will
be delayed the longest; but in general they are of the least importance.  Of MSS. burnt I have
suffered the most; that is, what was actually prepared by me, and what owes its whole revision
for the press to me, comprise the principal part of the MSS. consumed. The ground must be trodden
over again, but no delay in printing need arise from that.  The translations are all written
out first by pundits in the different languages, except the Sanskrit which is dictated by me
to an amanuensis.  The Sikh, Mahratta, Hindostani, Orissa, Telinga, Assam, and Kurnata are
re-translating in rough by pundits who have been long accustomed to their work, and have gone
over the ground before.  I follow them in revise, the chief part of which is done as the sheets
pass through the press, and is by far the heaviest part of the work. Of the Sanskrit only the
second book of Samuel and the first book of Kings were lost.  Scarcely any of the Orissa, and
none of the Kashmeerian or of the Burman MSS. were lost--copy for about thirty pages of my
Bengali dictionary, the whole copy of a Telinga grammar, part of the copy of the grammar of
Punjabi or Sikh language, and all the materials which I had been long collecting for a dictionary
of all the languages derived from the Sanskrit.  I hope, however, to be enabled to repair the
loss, and to complete my favourite scheme, if my life be prolonged."

Little did these simple scholars, all absorbed in their work, dream that this fire would prove
to be the means of making them and their work famous all over Europe and America as well as
India.  Men of every Christian school, and men interested only in the literary and secular
side of their enterprise, had their active sympathy called out.  The mere money loss, at the
exchange of the day, was not under ten thousand pounds.  In fifty days this was raised in England
and Scotland alone, till Fuller, returning from his last campaign, entered the room of his
committee, declaring "we must stop the contributions."  In Greenock, for instance, every place
of worship on one Sunday collected money.  In the United States Mr. Robert Ralston, a Presbyterian,
a merchant of Philadelphia, who as Carey's correspondent had been the first American layman
to help missions to India, and Dr. Staughton, who had taken an interest in the formation of
the Society in 1792 before he emigrated, had long assisted the translation work, and now that
Judson was on his way out they redoubled their exertions.  In India Thomason's own congregation
sent the missionaries £800, and Brown wrote from his dying bed a message of loving help.  The
newspapers of Calcutta caught the enthusiasm; one leading article concluded with the assurance
that the Serampore press would, "like the phoenix of antiquity, rise from its ashes, winged
with new strength, and destined, in a lofty and long-enduring flight, widely to diffuse the
benefits of knowledge throughout the East." The day after the fire ceased to smoke Monohur
was at the task of casting type from the lumps of the molten metal.

In two months after the first intelligence Fuller was able to send as "feathers of the phoenix"
slips of sheets of the Tamil Testament, printed from these types, to the towns and churches
which had subscribed.  Every fortnight a fount was cast; in a month all the native establishment
was at work night and day.  In six months the whole loss in Oriental types was repaired.  The
Ramayana version and Sanskrit polyglot dictionary were never resumed.  But of the Bible translations
and grammars, Carey and his two heroic brethren wrote:--"We found, on making the trial, that
the advantages in going over the same ground a second time were so great that they fully counter-balanced
the time requisite to be devoted thereto in a second translation."  The fire, in truth, the
cause of which was never discovered, and insurance against which did not exist in India, had
given birth to revised editions.

CHAPTER XI

WHAT CAREY DID FOR LITERATURE AND FOR HUMANITY

The growth of a language--Carey identified with the transition stage of Bengali--First printed
books--Carey's own works--His influence on indigenous writers--His son's works--Bengal the
first heathen country to receive the press--The first Bengali newspaper--The monthly and quarterly
Friend of India--The Hindoo revival of the eighteenth century fostered by the East India Company--Carey's
three memorials to Government on female infanticide, voluntary drowning, and widow-burning--What
Jonathan Duncan and Col. Walker had done--Wellesley's regulation to prevent the sacrifice of
children--Beginning of the agitation against the Suttee crime--Carey's pundits more enlightened
than the Company's judges--Humanity triumphs in 1832--Carey's share in Ward's book on the Hindoos--The
lawless supernaturalism of Rome and of India--Worship of Jaganath--Regulation identifying Government
with Hindooism--The swinging festival--Ghat murders--Burning of lepers--Carey establishes the
Leper Hospital in Calcutta--Slavery in India loses its legal status--Cowper, Clarkson, and Carey.

Like the growth of a tree is the development of a language, as really and as strictly according
to law.  In savage lands like those of Africa the missionary finds the living germs of speech,
arranges them for the first time in grammatical order, expresses them in written and printed
form, using the simplest, most perfect, and most universal character of all--the Roman, and
at one bound gives the most degraded of the dark peoples the possibility of the highest civilisation
and the divinest future.  In countries like India and China, where civilisation has long ago
reached its highest level, and has been declining for want of the salt of a universal Christianity,
it is the missionary again who interferes for the highest ends, but by a different process.
Mastering the complex classical speech and literature of the learned and priestly class, and
living with his Master's sympathy among the people whom that class oppresses, he takes the
popular dialects which are instinct with the life of the future; where they are wildly luxuriant
he brings them under law, where they are barren he enriches them from the parent stock so as
to make them the vehicle of ideas such as Greek gave to Europe, and in time he brings to the
birth nations worthy of the name by a national language and literature lighted up with the
ideas of the Book which he is the first to translate.

This was what Carey did for the speech of the Bengalees.  To them, as the historians of the
fast approaching Christian future will recognise, he was made what the Saxon Boniface had become
to the Germans, or the Northumbrian Baeda and Wyclif to the English.  The transition period
of English, from 1150 when its modern grammatical form prevailed, to the fifteenth century
when the rich dialects gave place to the literary standard, has its central date in 1362. 
Then Edward the Third made English take the place of French as the public language of justice
and legislation, closely followed by Wyclif's English Bible.  Carey's one Indian life of forty
years marks the similar transition stage of Bengali, including the parallel regulation of 1829,
which abolished Persian, made by the Mohammedan conquerors the language of the courts, and
put in its place Bengali and the vernaculars of the other provinces.

When Carey began to work in Calcutta and Dinapoor in 1792-93 Bengali had no printed and hardly
any written literature.  The very written characters were justly described by Colebrooke as
nothing else but the difficult and beautiful Sanskrit Devanagari deformed for the sake of expeditious
writings, such as accounts.  It was the new vaishnava faith of the Nuddea reformer Chaitanya
which led to the composition of the first Bengali prose.[22] The Brahmans and the Mohammedan
rulers alike treated Bengali--though "it arose from the tomb of the Sanskrit," as Italian did
from Latin under Dante's inspiration--as fit only for "demons and women."  In the generation
before Carey there flourished at the same Oxford of India, as Nuddea has been called, Raja
Krishna Rai, who did for Bengali what our own King Alfred accomplished for English prose. 
Moved, however, chiefly by a zeal for Hindooism, which caused him to put a Soodra to death
for marrying into a Brahman family, he himself wrote the vernacular and spent money in gifts,
which "encouraged the people to study Bengali with unusual diligence."  But when, forty years
after that, Carey visited Nuddea he could not discover more than forty separate works, all
in manuscript, as the whole literature of 30,000,000 of people up to that time.  A press had
been at work on the opposite side of the river for fifteen years, but Halhed's grammar was
still the only as it was the most ancient printed book.  One Baboo Ram, from Upper India, was
the first native who established a press in Calcutta, and that only under the influence of
Colebrooke, to print the Sanskrit classics.  The first Bengali who, on his own account, printed
works in the vernacular on trade principles, was Gunga Kishore, whom Carey and Ward had trained
at Serampore.  He soon made so large a fortune by his own press that three native rivals had
sprung up by 1820, when twenty-seven separate books, or 15,000 copies, had been sold to natives
within ten years.

For nearly all these Serampore supplied the type.  But all were in another sense the result
of Carey's action.  His first edition of the Bengali New Testament appeared in 1801, his Grammar
in the same year, and at the same time his Colloquies, or "dialogues intended to facilitate
the acquiring of the Bengali language," which he wrote out of the abundance of his knowledge
of native thought, idioms, and even slang, to enable students to converse with all classes
of society, as Erasmus had done in another way.  His Dictionary of 80,000 words began to appear
in 1815.  Knowing, however, that in the long run the literature of a nation must be of indigenous
growth, he at once pressed the natives into this service.  His first pundit, Ram Basu, was
a most accomplished Bengali scholar.  This able man, who lacked the courage to profess Christ
in the end, wrote the first tract, the Gospel Messenger, and the first pamphlet exposing Hindooism,
both of which had an enormous sale and caused much excitement.  On the historical side Carey
induced him to publish in 1801 the Life of Raja Pratapaditya, the last king of Sagar Island.
At first the new professor could not find reading books for his Bengali class in the college
of Fort William.  He, his pundits, especially Mritunjaya who has been compared in his physique
and knowledge to Dr. Samuel Johnson, and even the young civilian students, were for many years
compelled to write Bengali text-books, including translations of Virgil's Æneid and Shakspere's
Tempest. The School Book Society took up the work, encouraging such a man as Ram Komal Sen,
the printer who became chief native official of the Bank of Bengal and father of the late Keshab
Chunder Sen, to prepare his Bengali dictionary.  Self-interest soon enlisted the haughtiest
Brahmans in the work of producing school and reading books, till now the Bengali language is
to India what the Italian is to Europe, and its native literature is comparatively as rich.
Nor was Carey without his European successor in the good work for a time.  When his son Felix
died in 1823 he was bewailed as the coadjutor of Ram Komal Sen, as the author of the first
volume of a Bengali encyclopædia on anatomy, as the translator of Bunyan's Pilgrim, Goldsmith's
History of England, and Mill's History of India.

Literature cannot be said to exist for the people till the newspaper appears.  Bengal was the
first non-Christian country into which the press had ever been introduced.  Above all forms
of truth and faith Christianity seeks free discussion; in place of that the missionaries lived
under a shackled press law tempered by the higher instincts of rulers like Wellesley, Hastings,
and Bentinck, till Macaulay and Metcalfe gained for it liberty.  When Dr. Marshman in 1818
proposed the publication of a Bengali periodical, Dr. Carey, impressed by a quarter of a century's
intolerance, consented only on the condition that it should be a monthly magazine, and should
avoid political discussion. Accordingly the Dig-darshan appeared, anticipating in its contents
and style the later Penny and Saturday Magazines, and continued for three years.  Its immediate
success led to the issue from the Serampore press on the 31st May 1818, of "the first newspaper
ever printed in any Oriental language"--the Samachar Darpan, or News Mirror.

It was a critical hour when the first proof of the first number was laid before the assembled
brotherhood at the weekly meeting on Friday evening.  Dr. Carey, fearing for his spiritual
work, but eager for this new avenue to the minds of the people who were being taught to read,
and had little save their own mythology, consented to its publication when Dr. Marshman promised
to send a copy, with an analysis of its contents in English, to the Government, and to stop
the enterprise if it should be officially disapproved.  Lord Hastings was fighting the Pindarees,
and nothing was said by his Council.  On his return he declared that "the effect of such a
paper must be extensively and importantly useful."  He allowed it to circulate by post at one-fourth
the then heavy rate.  The natives welcomed their first newspaper. Although it avoided religious
controversy, in a few weeks an opposition journal was issued by a native, who sought to defend
Hindooism under the title of the Destroyer of Darkness.  To the Darpan the educated natives
looked as the means of bringing the oppression of their own countrymen to the knowledge of
the public and the authorities. Government found it most useful for contradicting silly rumours
and promoting contentment if not loyalty.  The paper gave a new development to the Bengali
language as well as to the moral and political education of the people.

The same period of liberty to the press and to native advancement, with which the names of
the Marquis of Hastings and his accomplished wife will ever be associated, saw the birth of
an English periodical which, for the next fifty-seven years, was to become not merely famous
but powerfully useful as the Friend of India.  The title was the selection of Dr. Marshman,
and the editorial management was his and his able son's down to 1852, when it passed into the
hands of Mr. Meredith Townsend, long the most brilliant of English journalists, and finally
into those of the present writer.  For some years a monthly and for a time a quarterly magazine
till 1835, when Mr. John Marshman made it the well-known weekly, this journal became the means
through which Carey and the brotherhood fought the good fight of humanity.  In the monthly
and quarterly Friend, moreover, reprinted as much of it was in London, the three philanthropists
brought their ripe experience and lofty principles to bear on the conscience of England and
of educated India alike.  As, on the Oriental side, Carey chose for his weapon the vernacular,
on the other he drew from Western sources the principles and the thoughts which he clothed
in a Bengali dress.

We have already seen how Carey at the end of the eighteenth century found Hindooism at its
worst.  Steadily had the Pooranic corruption and the Brahmanical oppression gone on demoralising
the whole of Hindoo society.  In the period of virtual anarchy, which covered the seventy-five
years from the death of Aurangzeb to the supremacy of Warren Hastings and the reforms of Lord
Cornwallis, the healthy zeal of Islam against the idolatrous abominations of the Hindoos had
ceased. In its place there was not only a wild licence amounting to an undoubted Hindoo revival,
marked on the political side by the Maratha ascendency, but there came to be deliberate encouragement
of the worst forms of Hindooism by the East India Company and its servants.  That "the mischievous
reaction" on England from India--its idolatry, its women, its nabobs, its wealth, its absolutism--was
prevented, and European civilisation was "after much delay and hesitation" brought to bear
on India, was due indeed to the legislation of Governor-Generals from Cornwallis to Bentinck,
but much more, to the persistent agitation of Christian missionaries, notably Carey and Duff.
For years Carey stood alone in India, as Grant and Wilberforce did in England, in the darkest
hour of England's moral degradation and spiritual death, when the men who were shaping the
destinies of India were the Hindooising Stewarts and Youngs, Prendergasts, Twinings, and Warings,
some of whom hated missions from the dread of sedition, others because their hearts "seduced
by fair idolatresses had fallen to idols foul."

The most atrociously inhuman of all the Brahmanical customs, and yet the most universal, from
the land of the five rivers at Lahore to the far spice islands at Bali, was the murder of widows
by burning or burying them alive with the husband's corpse.  We have seen how the first of
the many such scenes which he was doomed to witness for the next thirty years affected Carey.
And when he again sought to interfere because the two stout bamboos always fixed for the purpose
of preventing the victim's escape were pressed down on the shrieking woman like levers, and
they persisted, he wrote: "We could not bear to see more, but left them exclaiming loudly against
the murder and full of horror at what we had seen."  The remembrance of that sight never left
Carey.  His naturally cheerful spirit was inflamed to indignation all his life through, till
his influence, more than that of any other one man, at last prevailed to put out for ever the
murderous pyre.  Had Lord Wellesley remained Governor-General a year longer Carey would have
succeeded in 1808, instead of having to wait till 1829, and to know as he waited and prayed
that literally every day saw the devilish smoke ascending along the banks of the Ganges, and
the rivers and pools considered sacred by the Hindoos.  Need we wonder that when on a Sunday
morning the regulation of Lord William Bentinck prohibiting the crime reached him as he was
meditating his sermon, he sent for another to do the preaching, and taking his pen in his hand,
at once wrote the official translation, and had it issued in the Bengali Gazette that not another
day might be added to the long black catalogue of many centuries?

On the return of the Marquis Wellesley to Calcutta from the Tipoo war, and his own appointment
to the College of Fort William, Carey felt that his time had come to prevent the murder of
the innocents all over India in the three forms of female infanticide, voluntary drowning,
and widow-burning or burying alive.  His old friend, Udny, having become a member of Council
or colleague of the Governor-General, he prepared three memorials to Government on each of
these crimes.  When afterwards he had enlisted Claudius Buchanan in the good work, and had
employed trustworthy natives to collect statistics proving that in the small district around
Calcutta 275 widow murders thus took place in six months of 1803, and when he was asked by
Dr. Ryland to state the facts which, with his usual absence of self-regarding, he had not reported
publicly, or even in letters home, he thus replied:--

"27th April 1808.--The report of the burning of women, and some others, however, were made
by me.  I, at his expense, however, made the inquiries and furnished the reports, and believe
they are rather below the truth than above it.  I have, since I have been here, through a different
medium, presented three petitions or representations to Government for the purpose of having
the burning of women and other modes of murder abolished, and have succeeded in the case of
infanticide and voluntary drowning in the river.  Laws were made to prevent these, which have
been successful."

But there was a crime nearer home, committed in the river flowing past his own door, and especially
at Sagar Island, where the Ganges loses itself in the ocean.  At that tiger-haunted spot, shivering
in the cold of the winter solstice, every year multitudes of Hindoos, chiefly wives with children
and widows with heavy hearts, assembled to wash away their sins--to sacrifice the fruit of
their body for the sin of their soul.  Since 1794, when Thomas and he had found in a basket
hanging on a tree the bones of an infant exposed, to be devoured by the white ants, by some
mother too poor to go on pilgrimage to a sacred river-spot, Carey had known this unnatural
horror.  He and his brethren had planned a preaching tour to Sagar, where not only mothers
drowned their first born in payment of a vow, with the encouragement of the Brahmans, but widows
and even men walked into the deep sea and drowned themselves at the spot where Ganga and Sagar
kiss each other, "as the highest degree of holiness, and as securing immediate heaven."  The
result of Carey's memorial was the publication of the Regulation for preventing the sacrifice
of children at Sagar and other places on the Ganges:--"It has been represented to the Governor-General
in Council that a criminal and inhuman practice of sacrificing children, by exposing them to
be drowned or devoured by sharks, prevails...Children thrown into the sea at Sagar have not
been generally rescued...but the sacrifice has been effected with circumstances of peculiar
atrocity in some instances.  This practice is not sanctioned by the Hindoo law, nor countenanced
by the religious orders."  It was accordingly declared to be murder, punishable with death.
At each pilgrim gathering sepoys were stationed to check the priests and the police, greedy
of bribes, and to prevent fanatical suicides as well as superstitious murders.

The practice of infanticide was really based on the recommendation of Sati, literally the "method
of purity" which the Hindoo shastras require when they recommend the bereaved wife to burn
with her husband. Surely, reasoned the Rajpoots, we may destroy a daughter by abortion, starvation,
suffocation, strangulation, or neglect, of whose marriage in the line of caste and dignity
of family there is little prospect, if a widow may be burned to preserve her chastity!

In answer to Carey's third memorial Lord Wellesley took the first step, on 5th February 1805,
in the history of British India, two centuries after Queen Elizabeth had given the Company
its mercantile charter, and half a century after Plassey had given it political power, to protect
from murder the widows who had been burned alive, at least since the time of Alexander the
Great.  This was the first step in the history of British but not of Mohammedan India, for
our predecessors had by decree forbidden and in practice discouraged the crime.  Lord Wellesley's
colleagues were still the good Udny, the great soldier Lord Lake and Sir George Barlow.  The
magistrate of Bihar had on his own authority prevented a child-widow of twelve, when drugged
by the Brahmans, from being burned alive, after which, he wrote, "the girl and her friends
were extremely grateful for my interposition."  Taking advantage of this case, the Government
asked the appellate judges, all Company's servants, to "ascertain how far the practice is founded
on the religious opinions of the Hindoos. If not founded on any precept of their law, the Governor-General
in Council hopes that the custom may gradually, if not immediately, be altogether abolished.
If, however, the entire abolition should appear to the Court to be impracticable in itself,
or inexpedient, as offending any established religious opinion of the Hindoos," the Court were
desired to consider the best means of preventing the abuses, such as the use of drugs and the
sacrifice of those of immature age.  But the preamble of this reference to the judges declared
it to be one of the fundamental principles of the British Government to consult the religious
opinions of the natives, "consistently with the principles of morality, reason, and humanity."
There spoke Carey and Udny, and Wellesley himself.  But for another quarter of a century the
funeral pyres were to blaze with the living also, because that caveat was set aside, that fundamental
maxim of the constitution of much more than the British Government--of the conscience of humanity,
was carefully buried up. The judges asked the pundits whether the woman is "enjoined" by the
shaster voluntarily to burn herself with the body of her husband. They replied "every woman
of the four castes is permitted to burn herself," except in certain cases enumerated, and they
quoted Manoo, who is against the custom in so far as he says that a virtuous wife ascends to
heaven if she devotes herself to pious austerities after the decease of her lord.

This opinion would have been sufficient to give the requisite native excuse to Government for
the abolition, but the Nizamat Adawlat judges urged the "principle" of "manifesting every possible
indulgence to the religious opinions and prejudices of the natives," ignoring morality, reason,
and humanity alike.  Lord Wellesley's long and brilliant administration of eight years was
virtually at an end: in seven days he was to embark for home.  The man who had preserved the
infants from the sharks of Sagar had to leave the widows and their children to be saved by
the civilians Carey and he had personally trained, Metcalfe and Bayley, who by 1829 had risen
to Council and become colleagues of Lord W. Bentinck.  But Lord Wellesley did this much, he
declined to notice the so-called "prohibitory regulations" recommended by the civilian judges.
These, when adopted in the year 1812, made the British Government responsible by legislation
for every murder thereafter, and greatly increased the number of murders.  From that date the
Government of India decided "to allow the practice," as recognised and encouraged by the Hindoo
religion, except in cases of compulsion, drugging, widows under sixteen, and proved pregnancy.
The police--natives--were to be present, and to report every case.  At the very time the British
Parliament were again refusing in the charter discussions of 1813 for another twenty years
to tolerate Christianity in its Eastern dependency, the Indian legislature legalised the burning
and burying alive of widows, who numbered at least 6000 in nine only of the next sixteen years,
from 1815 to 1823 inclusive.

From Plassey in 1757 to 1829, three quarters of a century, Christian England was responsible,
at first indirectly and then most directly, for the known immolation of at least 70,000 Hindoo
widows.  Carey was the first to move the authorities; Udny and Wellesley were the first to
begin action against an atrocity so long continued and so atrocious. While the Governor-Generals
and their colleagues passed away, Carey and his associates did not cease to agitate in India
and to stir up Wilberforce and the evangelicals in England, till the victory was gained.  The
very first number of the Friend of India published their essay on the burning of widows, which
was thereafter quoted on both sides of the conflict, as "a powerful and convincing statement
of the real facts and circumstances of the case," in Parliament and elsewhere. Nor can we omit
to record the opinion of Carey's chief pundit, with whom he spent hours every day as a fellow-worker.
The whole body of law-pundits wrote of Sati as only "permitted."  Mritunjaya, described as
the head jurist of the College of Fort William and the Supreme Court, decided that, according
to Hindooism, a life of mortification is the law for a widow.  At best burning is only an alternative
for mortification, and no alternative can have the force of direct law. But in former ages
nothing was ever heard of the practice, it being peculiar to a later and more corrupt era.
"A woman's burning herself from the desire of connubial bliss ought to be rejected with abhorrence,"
wrote this colossus of pundits.  Yet before he was believed, or the higher law was enforced,
as it has ever since been even in our tributary States, mothers had burned with sons, and forty
wives, many of them sisters, at a time, with polygamous husbands. Lepers and the widows of
the devotee class had been legally buried alive. Magistrates, who were men like Metcalfe, never
ceased to prevent widow-murder on any pretext, wherever they might be placed, in defiance of
their own misguided Government.

Though from 4th December 1829--memorable date, to be classed with that on which soon after
800,000 slaves were set free--"the Ganges flowed unblooded to the sea" for the first time,
the fight lasted a little longer.  The Calcutta "orthodox" formed a society to restore their
right of murdering their widows, and found English lawyers ready to help them in an appeal
to the Privy Council under an Act of Parliament of 1797.  The Darpan weekly did good service
in keeping the mass of the educated natives right on the subject.  The Privy Council, at which
Lord Wellesley and Charles Grant, venerable in years and character, were present, heard the
case for two days, and on 24th June 1832 dismissed the petition!

Though the greatest, this was only one of the crimes against humanity and morality which Carey
opposed all his life with a practical reasonableness till he saw the public opinion he had
done so much to create triumph.  He knew the people of India, their religious, social, and
economic condition, as no Englishman before him had done.  He stood between them and their
foreign Government at the beginning of our intimate contact with all classes as detailed administrators
and rulers.  The outcome of his peculiar experience is to be found not only in the writings
published under his own name but in the great book of his colleague William Ward, every page
of which passed under his careful correction as well as under the more general revision of
Henry Martyn.  Except for the philosophy of Hindooism, the second edition of A View of the
History, Literature, and Mythology of the Hindoos, including a Minute Description of their
Manners and Customs, and Translations from their Principal Works, published in 1818 in two
quarto volumes, stands unrivalled as the best authority on the character and daily life and
beliefs of the 200,000,000 to whom Great Britain had been made a terrestrial providence, till
Christianity teaches them to govern themselves and to become to the rest of Asia missionaries
of nobler truth than that wherewith their Buddhist fathers covered China and the farther East.

All the crimes against humanity with which the history of India teems, down to the Mutiny and
the records of our courts and tributary states at this hour, are directly traceable to lawless
supernaturalism like that of the civilised world before the triumph of Christianity.  In nothing
does England's administration of India resemble Rome's government of its provinces in the seven
centuries from the reduction of Sicily, 240 B.C., to the fall of the Western Empire, 476 A.D.,
so much as in the relation of nascent Christianity to the pagan cults which had made society
what it was.  Carey and the brotherhood stood alone in facing, in fighting with divine weapons,
in winning the first victories over the secular as well as spiritual lawlessness which fell
before Paul and his successors down to Augustine and his City of God. The gentle and reasonable
but none the less divinely indignant father of modern missions brings against Hindoo and Mohammedan
society accusations no more railing than those in the opening passage of the Epistle to the
Romans, and he brings these only that, following Paul, he may declare the more excellent way.

As Serampore, or its suburbs, is the most popular centre of Jaganath worship next to Pooree
in Orissa, the cruelty and oppression which marked the annual festival were ever before the
missionaries' eyes. In 1813 we find Dr. Claudius Buchanan establishing his veracity as an eye-witness
of the immolation of drugged or voluntary victims under the idol car, by this quotation from
Dr. Carey, whom he had to describe at that time to his English readers, as a man of unquestionable
integrity, long held in estimation by the most respectable characters in Bengal, and possessing
very superior opportunities of knowing what is passing in India generally: "Idolatry destroys
more than the sword, yet in a way which is scarcely perceived.  The numbers who die in their
long pilgrimages, either through want or fatigue, or from dysenteries and fevers caught by
lying out, and want of accommodation, is incredible. I only mention one idol, the famous Juggernaut
in Orissa, to which twelve or thirteen pilgrimages are made every year.  It is calculated that
the number who go thither is, on some occasions, 600,000 persons, and scarcely ever less than
100,000.  I suppose, at the lowest calculation, that in the year 1,200,000 persons attend.
Now, if only one in ten died, the mortality caused by this one idol would be 120,000 in a year;
but some are of opinion that not many more than one in ten survive and return home again. 
Besides these, I calculate that 10,000 women annually burn with the bodies of their deceased
husbands, and the multitudes destroyed in other methods would swell the catalogue to an extent
almost exceeding credibility."

After we had taken Orissa from the Marathas the priests of Jaganath declared that the night
before the conquest the god had made known its desire to be under British protection.  This
was joyfully reported to Lord Wellesley's Government by the first British commissioner.  At
once a regulation was drafted vesting the shrine and the increased pilgrim-tax in the Christian
officials.  This Lord Wellesley indignantly refused to sanction, and it was passed by Sir George
Barlow in spite of the protests of Carey's friend, Udny. In Conjeeveram a Brahmanised civilian
named Place had so early as 1796 induced Government to undertake the payment of the priests
and prostitutes of the temples, under the phraseology of "churchwardens" and "the management
of the church funds."  Even before the Madras iniquity, the pilgrims to Gaya from 1790, if
not before, paid for authority to offer funeral cakes to the manes of their ancestors and to
worship Vishnoo under the official seal and signature of the English Collector. Although Charles
Grant's son, Lord Glenelg, when President of the Board of Control in 1833, ordered, as Theodosius
had done on the fall of pagan idolatry in A.D. 390, that "in all matters relating to their
temples, their worship, their festivals, their religious practices, their ceremonial observances,
our native subjects be left entirely to themselves," the identification of Government with
Hindooism was not completely severed till a recent period.

The Charak, or swinging festival, has been frequently witnessed by the present writer in Calcutta
itself.  The orgie has been suppressed by the police in great cities, although it has not ceased
in the rural districts.  In 1814 the brotherhood thus wrote home:--

"This abominable festival was held, according to the annual custom, on the last day of the
Hindoo year.  There were fewer gibbet posts erected at Serampore, but we hear that amongst
the swingers was one female.  A man fell from a stage thirty cubits high and broke his back;
and another fell from a swinging post, but was not much hurt. Some days after the first swinging,
certain natives revived the ceremonies.  As Mr. Ward was passing through Calcutta he saw several
Hindoos hanging by the heels over a slow fire, as an act of devotion.  Several Hindoos employed
in the printing-office applied this year to Mr. Ward for protection, to escape being dragged
into these pretendedly voluntary practices.  This brought before us facts which we were not
aware of. It seems that the landlords of the poor and other men of property insist upon certain
of their tenants and dependants engaging in these practices, and that they expect and compel
by actual force multitudes every year to join the companies of sunyassees in parading the streets,
piercing their sides, tongues, etc.  To avoid this compulsion, many poor young men leave their
houses and hide themselves; but they are sure of being beaten if caught, or of having their
huts pulled down. The influence and power of the rich have a great effect on the multitude
in most of the idolatrous festivals.  When the lands and riches of the country were in few
hands, this influence carried all before it.  It is still very widely felt, in compelling dependants
to assist at public shows, and to contribute towards the expense of splendid ceremonies."

The Ghat murders, caused by the carrying of the dying to the Ganges or a sacred river, and
their treatment there, continue to this day, although Lord Lawrence attempted to interfere.
Ward estimated the number of sick whose death is hastened on the banks of the Ganges alone
at five hundred a year, in his anxiety to "use no unfair means of rendering even idolatry detestable,"
but he admits that, in the opinion of others, this estimate is far below the truth.  We believe,
from our own recent experience, that still it fails to give any just idea of the destruction
of parents by children in the name of religion.

One class who had been the special objects of Christ's healing power and divine sympathy was
specially interesting to Carey in proportion to their misery and abandonment by their own people--lepers.
When at Cutwa in 1812, where his son was stationed as missionary, he saw the burning of a leper,
which he thus described:--"A pit about ten cubits in depth was dug and a fire placed at the
bottom of it.  The poor man rolled himself into it; but instantly, on feeling the fire, begged
to be taken out, and struggled hard for that purpose.  His mother and sister, however, thrust
him in again; and thus a man, who to all appearance might have survived several years, was
cruelly burned to death.  I find that the practice is not uncommon in these parts. Taught that
a violent end purifies the body and ensures transmigration into a healthy new existence, while
natural death by disease results in four successive births, and a fifth as a leper again, the
leper, like the even more wretched widow, has always courted suicide."  Carey did not rest
until he had brought about the establishment of a leper hospital in Calcutta, near what became
the centre of the Church Missionary Society's work, and there benevolent physicians, like the
late Dr. Kenneth Stuart, and Christian people, have made it possible to record, as in Christ's
days, that the leper is cleansed and the poor have the Gospel preached to them.

By none of the many young civilians whom he trained, or, in the later years of his life, examined,
was Carey's humane work on all its sides more persistently carried out than by John Lawrence
in the Punjab. When their new ruler first visited their district, the Bedi clan amazed him
by petitioning for leave to destroy their infant daughters.  In wrath he briefly told them
he would hang every man found guilty of such murder.  When settling the land revenue of the
Cis-Sutlej districts he caused each farmer, as he touched the pen in acceptance of the assessment,
to recite this formula--

  "Bewa mat jaláo,
  Beti mat máro,
  Korhi mat dabao"

("Thou shalt not burn thy widow, thou shalt not kill thy daughters, thou shalt not bury thy
lepers.")

From the hour of Carey's conversion he never omitted to remember in prayer the slave as well
as the heathen.  The same period which saw his foundation of modern missions witnessed the
earliest efforts of his contemporary, Thomas Clarkson of Wisbeach, in the neighbouring county
of Cambridge, to free the slave.  But Clarkson, Granville Sharp, and their associates were
so occupied with Africa that they knew not that Great Britain was responsible for the existence
of at least nine millions of slaves in India, many of them brought by Hindoo merchants as well
as Arabs from Eastern Africa to fill the hareems of Mohammedans, and do domestic service in
the zananas of Hindoos.  The startling fact came to be known only slowly towards the end of
Carey's career, when his prayers, continued daily from 1779, were answered in the freedom of
all our West India slaves. The East India answer came after he had passed away, in Act V. of
1843, which for ever abolished the legal status of slavery in India. The Penal Code has since
placed the prædial slave in such a position that if he is not free it is his own fault.  It
is penal in India to hold a slave "against his will," and we trust the time is not far distant
when the last three words may be struck out.

With true instinct Christopher Anderson, in his Annals of the English Bible, associates Carey,
Clarkson, and Cowper, as the triumvirate who, unknown to each other, began the great moral
changes, in the Church, in society, and in literature, which mark the difference between the
eighteenth and the nineteenth centuries. Little did Carey think, as he studied under Sutcliff
within sight of the poet's house, that Cowper was writing at that very time these lines in
The Task while he himself was praying for the highest of all kinds of liberty to be given to
the heathen and the slaves, Christ's freedom which had up till then remained

                          "...unsung
  By poets, and by senators unpraised,
  Which monarchs cannot grant, nor all the powers
  Of earth and hell confederate take away;
  A liberty which persecution, fraud,
  Oppression, prisons, have no power to bind:
  Which whoso tastes can be enslaved no more."

Not only was the first Englishman, who in modern times became a missionary, sent to India when
he desired to go to Tahiti or West Africa; and sent to Bengal from which all Northern India
was to be brought under British rule; and to Calcutta--with a safe asylum at Danish Serampore--then
the metropolis and centre of all Southern Asia; but he was sent at the very time when the life
of the people could best be purified and elevated on its many sides, and he was specially fitted
to influence each of these sides save one.  An ambassador for Christ above all things like
Paul, but, also like him, becoming all things to all men that he might win some to the higher
life, Carey was successively, and often at the same time, a captain of labour, a schoolmaster,
a printer, the developer of the vernacular speech, the expounder of the classical language,
the translator of both into English and of the English Bible into both, the founder of a pure
literature, the purifier of society, the watchful philanthropist, the saviour of the widow
and the fatherless, of the despairing and the would-be suicide, of the downtrodden and oppressed.
We have now to see him on the scientific or the physical and economic side, while he still
jealously keeps his strength for the one motive power of all, the spiritual, and with almost
equal care avoids the political or administrative as his Master did.  But even then it was
his aim to proclaim the divine principles which would use science and politics alike to bring
nations to the birth, while, like the apostles, leaving the application of these principles
to the course of God's providence and the consciences of men.  In what he did for science,
for literature, and for humanity, as in what he abstained from doing in the practical region
of public life, the first English missionary was an example to all of every race who have followed
him in the past century. From Carey to Livingstone, alike in Asia and Africa, the greatest
Christian evangelists have been those who have made science and literature the handmaids of
missions.

Apart from the extreme south of the peninsula of India, where the Danish missionaries had explored
with hawk's eyes, almost nothing was known of its plants and animals, its men, as well as its
beasts, when Carey found himself in a rural district of North Bengal in the closing decade
of the eighteenth century.  Nor had any writer, official or missionary, anywhere realised the
state of India and the needs of the Hindoo and Mohammedan cultivators as flowing from the relation
of the people to the soil.  India was in truth a land of millions of peasant proprietors on
five-acre farms, rack-rented or plundered by powerful middlemen, both squeezed or literally
tortured by the Government of the day, and driven to depend on the usurer for even the seed
for each crop.  War and famine had alternated in keeping down the population. Ignorance and
fear had blunted the natural shrewdness of the cultivator.  A foul mythology, a saddening demon-worship,
and an exacting social system, covered the land as with a pall.  What even Christendom was
fast becoming in the tenth century, India had been all through the eighteen Christian centuries.

The boy who from eight to fourteen "chose to read books of science, history, voyages, etc.,
more than others"; the youth whose gardener uncle would have had him follow that calling, but
whose sensitive skin kept him within doors, where he fitted up a room with his botanical and
zoological museum; the shoemaker-preacher who made a garden around every cottage-manse in which
he lived, and was familiar with every beast, bird, insect, and tree in the Midlands of England,
became a scientific observer from the day he landed at Calcutta, an agricultural reformer from
the year he first built a wooden farmhouse in the jungle, as the Manitoba emigrant now does
under very different skies, and then began to grow and make indigo amid the peasantry at Dinapoor.
He thus unconsciously reveals himself and his method of working in a letter to Morris of Clipstone:--

"MUDNABATI, 5th December 1797.--To talk of continuance of friendship and warm affection to
you would be folly.  I love you; and next to seeing your face, a letter from you is one of
my greatest gratifications.  I see the handwriting, and read the heart of my friend; nor can
the distance of one-fourth of the globe prevent a union of hearts.

"Hitherto I have refrained from writing accounts of the country, because I concluded that those
whose souls were panting after the conversion of the heathen would feel but little gratified
in having an account of the natural productions of the country.  But as intelligence of this
kind has been frequently solicited by several of my friends, I have accordingly opened books
of observation, which I hope to communicate when they are sufficiently authenticated and matured.
I also intend to assign a peculiar share to each of my stated correspondents.  To you I shall
write some accounts of the arts, utensils, and manufactures of the country; to Brother Sutcliff
their mythology and religion; to Brother Ryland the manners and customs of the inhabitants;
to Brother Fuller the productions of the country; to Brother Pearce the language, etc.; and
to the Society a joint account of the mission."

He had "separate books for every distinct class, as birds, beasts, fishes, reptiles, etc."
Long before this, on 13th March 1795, he had written to the learned Ryland, his special correspondent
on subjects of science and on Hebrew, his first impressions of the physiography of Bengal,
adding: "The natural history of Bengal would furnish innumerable novelties to a curious inquirer.
I am making collections and minute descriptions of whatever I can obtain; and intend at some
future time to transmit them to Europe."

"MUDNABATI, 26th November 1796.--I observed in a former letter that the beasts have been in
general described, but that the undescribed birds were surprisingly numerous; and, in fact,
new species are still frequently coming under my notice.  We have sparrows and water-wagtails,
one species of crow, ducks, geese, and common fowls; pigeons, teal, ortolans, plovers, snipes
like those in Europe; but others, entirely unlike European birds, would fill a volume. Insects
are very numerous.  I have seen about twelve sorts of grylli, or grasshoppers and crickets.
Ants are the most omnivorous of all insects; we have eight or ten sorts very numerous.  The
termes, or white ants, destroy everything on which they fasten; they will eat through an oak
chest in a day or two and devour all its contents. Butterflies are not so numerous as in England,
but I think all different.  Common flies and mosquitoes (or gnats) are abundant, and the latter
so tormenting as to make one conclude that if the flies in Egypt were mosquitoes, the plague
must be almost insupportable.  Here are beetles of many species; scorpions of two sorts, the
sting of the smallest not mortal; land crabs in abundance, and an amazing number of other kinds
of insects.  Fish is very plentiful, and the principal animal food of the inhabitants.  I find
fewer varieties of vegetables than I could have conceived in so large a country.  Edible vegetables
are scarce, and fruit far from plentiful.  You will perhaps wonder at our eating many things
here which no one eats in England: as arum, three or four sorts, and poppy leaves (Papaver
somniferum).  We also cut up mallows by the bushes for our food (Job xxx. 4).  Amaranths, of
three sorts, we also eat, besides capsicums, pumpkins, gourds, calabashes, and the egg-plant
fruit; yet we have no hardships in these respects.  Rice is the staple article of food...

"My love to the students.  God raise them up for great blessings. Great things are certainly
at hand."

But he was also an erudite botanist.  Had he arrived in Calcutta a few days earlier than he
did, he would have been appointed to the place for which sheer poverty led him to apply, in
the Company's Botanical Garden, established on the right bank of the Hoogli a few miles below
Calcutta, by Colonel Alexander Kyd, for the collection of indigenous and acclimatisation of
foreign plants.  There he at once made the acquaintance, and till 1815 retained the loving
friendship, of its superintendent, Dr. Roxburgh, the leader of a series of eminent men, Buchanan
and Wallich, Griffith, Falconer, T. Thomson, and Thomas Anderson, the last two cut off in the
ripe promise of their manhood. One of Carey's first requests was for seeds and instruments,
not merely from scientific reasons, but that he might carry out his early plan of working with
his hands as a farmer while he evangelised the people.  On 5th August 1794 he wrote to the
Society:--"I wish you also to send me a few instruments of husbandry, viz., scythes, sickles,
plough-wheels, and such things; and a yearly assortment of all garden and flowering seeds,
and seeds of fruit trees, that you can possibly procure; and let them be packed in papers,
or bottles well stopped, which is the best method. All these things, at whatever price you
can procure them, and the seeds of all sorts of field and forest trees, etc., I will regularly
remit you the money for every year; and I hope that I may depend upon the exertions of my numerous
friends to procure them. Apply to London seedsmen and others, as it will be a lasting advantage
to this country; and I shall have it in my power to do this for what I now call my own country.
Only take care that they are new and dry." Again he addressed Fuller on 22nd June 1797:--

"MY VERY DEAR BROTHER--I have yours of August 9, 16, which informs me that the seeds, etc.,
were shipped.  I have received those seeds and other articles in tolerable preservation, and
shall find them a very useful article.  An acquaintance which I have formed with Dr. Roxburgh,
Superintendent of the Company's Botanic Garden, and whose wife is daughter of a missionary
on the coast, may be of future use to the mission, and make that investment of vegetables more
valuable."

Thus towards the close of his six years' sacrifice for the people of Dinapoor does he estimate
himself and his scientific pursuits in the light of the great conflict to which the Captain
of Salvation had called him.  He is opening his heart to Fuller again, most trusted of all:--

"MUDNABATI, 17th July 1799.--Respecting myself I have nothing interesting to say; and if I
had, it appears foreign to the design of a mission for the missionaries to be always speaking
of their own experiences.  I keep several journals, it is true, relating to things private
and public, respecting the mission, articles of curiosity and science; but they are sometimes
continued and sometimes discontinued: besides, most things contained in them are of too general
or trivial a nature to send to England, and I imagine could have no effect, except to mock
the expectations of our numerous friends, who are waiting to hear of the conversion of the
heathen and overthrow of Satan's kingdom.

"I therefore only observe, respecting myself, that I have much proof of the vileness of my
heart, much more than I thought of till lately: and, indeed, I often fear that instead of being
instrumental in the conversion of the heathen, I may some time dishonour the cause in which
I am engaged.  I have hitherto had much experience of the daily supports of a gracious God;
but I am conscious that if those supports were intermitted but for a little time, my sinful
dispositions would infallibly predominate.  At present I am kept, but am not one of those who
are strong and do exploits.

"I have often thought that a spirit of observation is necessary in order to our doing or communicating
much good; and were it not for a very phlegmatic habit, I think my soul would be richer.  I,
however, appear to myself to have lost much of my capacity for making observations, improvements,
etc., or of retaining what I attend to closely.  For instance, I have been near three years
learning the Sanskrit language, yet know very little of it.  This is only a specimen of what
I feel myself to be in every respect.  I try to observe, to imprint what I see and hear on
my memory, and to feel my heart properly affected with the circumstances; yet my soul is impoverished,
and I have something of a lethargic disease cleaving to my body...

"I would communicate something on the natural history of the country in addition to what I
have before written, but no part of that pleasing study is so familiar to me as the vegetable
world."

His letters of this period to Fuller on the fruits of India, and to Morris on the husbandry
of the natives, might be quoted still as accurate and yet popular descriptions of the mango,
guava, and custard apple; plantain, jack, and tamarind; pomegranate, pine-apple, and rose-apple;
papaya, date, and cocoa-nut; citron, lime, and shaddock. Of many of these, and of foreign fruits
which he introduced, it might be said he found them poor, and he cultivated them till he left
to succeeding generations a rich and varied orchard.

While still in Dinapoor, he wrote on 1st January 1798: "Seeds of sour apples, pears, nectarines,
plums, apricots, cherries, gooseberries, currants, strawberries, or raspberries, put loose
into a box of dry sand, and sent so as to arrive in September, October, November, or December,
would be a great acquisition, as is every European production.  Nuts, filberts, acorns, etc.,
would be the same.  We have lately obtained the cinnamon tree, and nutmeg tree, which Dr. Roxburgh
very obligingly sent to me.  Of timber trees I mention the sissoo, the teak, and the saul tree,
which, being an unnamed genus, Dr. Roxburgh, as a mark of respect to me, has called Careya saulea."

The publication of the last name caused Carey's sensitive modesty extreme annoyance. "Do not
print the names of Europeans.  I was sorry to see that you printed that Dr. Roxburgh had named
the saul tree by my name.  As he is in the habit of publishing his drawings of plants, it would
have looked better if it had been mentioned first by him." Whether he prevailed with his admiring
friend in the Company's Botanic Garden to change the name to that which the useful sal tree
now bears, the Shorea robusta, we know not, but the term is derived from Lord Teignmouth's
name.  Carey will go down to posterity in the history of botanical research, notwithstanding
his own humility and the accidents of time.  For Dr. Roxburgh gave the name of Careya to an
interesting genus of Myrtace[oe].  The great French botanist M. Benjamin Delessert duly commemorates
the labours of Dr. Carey in the Musée Botanique.

It was in Serampore that the gentle botanist found full scope for the one recreation which
he allowed himself, in the interest of his body as well as of his otherwise overtasked spirit.
There he had five acres of ground laid out, and, in time, planted on the Linnæan system.  The
park around, from which he had the little paradise carefully walled in, that Brahmani bull
and villager's cow, nightly jackal and thoughtless youth, might not intrude, he planted with
trees then rare or unknown in lower Bengal, the mahogany and deodar, the teak and tamarind,
the carob and eucalyptus.  The fine American Mahogany has so thriven that the present writer
was able, seventy years after the trees had been planted, to supply Government with plentiful
seed.  The trees of the park were so placed as to form a noble avenue, which long shaded the
press and was known as Carey's Walk. The umbrageous tamarind formed a dense cover, under which
more than one generation of Carey's successors rejoiced as they welcomed visitors to the consecrated
spot from all parts of India, America, and Great Britain.  Foresters like Sir D. Brandis and
Dr. Cleghorn at various times visited this arboretum, and have referred to the trees, whose
date of planting is known, for the purpose of recording the rate of growth.

For the loved garden Carey himself trained native peasants who, with the mimetic instinct of
the Bengali, followed his instructions like those of their own Brahmans, learned the Latin
names, and pronounced them with their master's very accent up till a late date, when Hullodhur,
the last of them, passed away.  The garden with its tropical glories and more modest exotics,
every one of which was as a personal friend, and to him had an individual history, was more
than a place of recreation.  It was his oratory, the scene of prayer and meditation, the place
where he began and ended the day of light--with God. What he wrote in his earlier journals
and letters of the sequestered spot at Mudnabati was true in a deeper and wider sense of the
garden of Serampore:--"23rd September, Lord's Day.--Arose about sunrise, and, according to
my usual practice, walked into my garden for meditation and prayer till the servants came to
family worship."  We have this account from his son Jonathan:--

"In objects of nature my father was exceedingly curious.  His collection of mineral ores, and
other subjects of natural history, was extensive, and obtained his particular attention in
seasons of leisure and recreation.  The science of botany was his constant delight and study;
and his fondness for his garden remained to the last.  No one was allowed to interfere in the
arrangements of this his favourite retreat; and it is here he enjoyed his most pleasant moments
of secret devotion and meditation.  The arrangements made by him were on the Linnæan system;
and to disturb the bed or border of the garden was to touch the apple of his eye.  The garden
formed the best and rarest botanical collection of plants in the East; to the extension of
which, by his correspondence with persons of eminence in Europe and other parts of the world,
his attention was constantly directed; and, in return, he supplied his correspondents with
rare collections from the East. It was painful to observe with what distress my father quitted
this scene of his enjoyments, when extreme weakness, during his last illness, prevented his
going to his favourite retreat.  Often, when he was unable to walk, he was drawn into the garden
in a chair placed on a board with four wheels.

"In order to prevent irregularity in the attendance of the gardeners he was latterly particular
in paying their wages with his own hands; and on the last occasion of doing so, he was much
affected that his weakness had increased and confined him to the house.  But, notwithstanding
he had closed this part of his earthly scene, he could not refrain from sending for his gardeners
into the room where he lay, and would converse with them about the plants; and near his couch,
against the wall, he placed the picture of a beautiful shrub, upon which he gazed with delight.

"On this science he frequently gave lectures, which were well attended, and never failed to
prove interesting.  His publication of Roxburgh's Flora Indica is a standard work with botanists.
Of his botanical friends he spoke with great esteem; and never failed to defend them when erroneously
assailed.  He encouraged the study of the science wherever a desire to acquire it was manifested.
In this particular he would sometimes gently reprove those who had no taste for it; but he
would not spare those who attempted to undervalue it. His remark of one of his colleagues was
keen and striking.  When the latter somewhat reprehended Dr. Carey, to the medical gentleman
attending him, for exposing himself so much in the garden, he immediately replied, that his
colleague was conversant with the pleasures of a garden, just as an animal was with the grass
in the field."

As from Dinapoor, so from Serampore after his settlement there, an early order was this on
27th November 1800:--"We are sending an assortment of Hindoo gods to the British Museum, and
some other curiosities to different friends.  Do send a few tulips, daffodils, snowdrops, lilies,
and seeds of other things, by Dolton when he returns, desiring him not to put them into the
hold.  Send the roots in a net or basket, to be hung up anywhere out of the reach of salt water,
and the seeds in a separate small box.  You need not be at any expense, any friend will supply
these things.  The cowslips and daisies of your fields would be great acquisitions here." 
What the daisies of the English fields became to Carey, and how his request was long after
answered, is told by James Montgomery, the Moravian, who formed after Cowper the second poet
of the missionary reformation:--

THE DAISY IN INDIA

"A friend of mine, a scientific botanist, residing near Sheffield, had sent a package of sundry
kinds of British seeds to the learned and venerable Doctor WILLIAM CAREY.  Some of the seeds
had been enclosed in a bag, containing a portion of their native earth.  In March 1821 a letter
of acknowledgment was received by his correspondent from the Doctor, who was himself well skilled
in botany, and had a garden rich in plants, both tropical and European. In this enclosure he
was wont to spend an hour every morning, before he entered upon those labours and studies which
have rendered his name illustrious both at home and abroad, as one of the most accomplished
of Oriental scholars and a translator of the Holy Scriptures into many of the Hindoo languages.
In the letter aforementioned, which was shown to me, the good man says:--'That I might be sure
not to lose any part of your valuable present, I shook the bag over a patch of earth in a shady
place: on visiting which a few days afterwards I found springing up, to my inexpressible delight,
a Bellis perennis of our English pastures.  I know not that I ever enjoyed, since leaving Europe,
a simple pleasure so exquisite as the sight of this English Daisy afforded me; not having seen
one for upwards of thirty years, and never expecting to see one again.'

"On the perusal of this passage, the following stanzas seemed to spring up almost spontaneously
in my mind, as the 'little English flower' in the good Doctor's garden, whom I imagined to
be thus addressing it on its sudden appearance:--

  "Thrice welcome, little English flower!
  My mother-country's white and red,
  In rose or lily, till this hour,
  Never to me such beauty spread:
  Transplanted from thine island-bed,
  A treasure in a grain of earth,
  Strange as a spirit from the dead,
  Thine embryo sprang to birth.

  "Thrice welcome, little English flower!
  Whose tribes, beneath our natal skies,
  Shut close their leaves while vapours lower;
  But, when the sun's gay beams arise,
  With unabashed but modest eyes,
  Follow his motion to the west,
  Nor cease to gaze till daylight dies,
  Then fold themselves to rest.

  "Thrice welcome, little English flower!

  "Thrice welcome, little English flower!
  Of early scenes beloved by me,
  While happy in my father's bower,
  Thou shalt the blythe memorial be;
  The fairy sports of infancy,
  Youth's golden age, and manhood's prime.
  Home, country, kindred, friends,--with thee,
  I find in this far clime.

  "Thrice welcome, little English flower!
  I'll rear thee with a trembling hand:
  Oh, for the April sun and shower,
  The sweet May dews of that fair land.
  Where Daisies, thick as starlight, stand
  In every walk!--that here may shoot
  Thy scions, and thy buds expand
  A hundred from one root.

  "Thrice welcome, little English flower!
  To me the pledge of hope unseen:
  When sorrow would my soul o'erpower,
  For joys that were, or might have been,
  I'll call to mind, how, fresh and green,
  I saw thee waking from the dust;
  Then turn to heaven with brow serene,
  And place in GOD my trust."

From every distant station, from Amboyna to Delhi, he received seeds and animals and specimens
of natural history.  The very schoolboys when they went out into the world, and the young civilians
of Fort William College, enriched his collections.  To Jabez, his son in Amboyna, we find him
thus writing:--"I have already informed you of the luckless fate of all the animals you have
sent.  I know of no remedy for the living animals dying, but by a little attention to packing
them you may send skins of birds and animals of every kind, and also seeds and roots.  I lately
received a parcel of seeds from Moore (a large boy who, you may remember, was at school when
the printing-office was burnt), every one of which bids fair to grow. He is in some of the
Malay islands.  After all you have greatly contributed to the enlargement of my collection."

"17th September 1816.--I approve much of Bencoolen as a place for your future labours, unless
you should rather choose the island of Borneo...The English may send a Resident thither after
a time.  I mention this from a conversation I had some months ago on the subject with Lord
Moira, who told me that there is a large body of Chinese on that island."  They "applied to
the late Lieut.-Governor of Java, requesting that an English Resident may be sent to govern
them, and offering to be at the whole expense of his salary and government.  The Borneo business
may come to nothing, but if it should succeed it would be a glorious opening for the Gospel
in that large island.  Sumatra, however, is larger than any one man could occupy."  As we read
this we see the Serampore apostle's hope fulfilled after a different fashion, in Rajah Brooke's
settlement at Sarawak, in the charter of the North Borneo Company, in the opening up of New
Guinea and in the civilisation of the Philippines by the United States of America.

To Roxburgh and his Danish successor Wallich, to Voigt who succeeded Wallich in Serampore,
and hundreds of correspondents in India and Germany, Great Britain and America, Carey did many
a service in sending plants and--what was a greater sacrifice for so busy a man--writing letters.
What he did for the Hortus Bengalensis may stand for all.

When, in 1814, Dr. Roxburgh was sent to sea almost dying, Dr. Carey edited and printed at his
own press that now very rare volume, the Hortus Bengalensis, or a Catalogue of the Plants of
the Honourable East India Company's Botanic Garden in Calcutta.  Carey's introduction of twelve
large pages is perhaps his most characteristic writing on a scientific subject.  His genuine
friendliness and humility shine forth in the testimony he bears to the abilities, zeal, and
success of the great botanist who, in twenty years, had created a collection of 3200 species.
Of these 3000 at least had been given by the European residents in India, himself most largely
of all.  Having shown in detail the utility of botanical gardens, especially in all the foreign
settlements of Great Britain, he declared that only a beginning had been made in observing
and cataloguing the stock of Asiatic productions.  He urged English residents all over India
to set apart a small plot for the reception of the plants of their neighbourhood, and when
riding about the country to mark plants, which their servants could bring on to the nursery,
getting them to write the native name of each. He desiderated gardens at Hurdwar, Delhi, Dacca,
and Sylhet, where plants that will not live at Calcutta might prosper, a suggestion which was
afterwards carried out by the Government in establishing a garden at Saharanpoor, in a Sub-Himalayan
region, which has been successfully directed by Royle, Falconer, and Jameson.

On Dr. Roxburgh's death in 1815 Dr. Carey waited to see whether an English botanist would publish
the fruit of thirty years' labour of his friend in the description of more than 2000 plants,
natives of Eastern Asia. At his own risk he then, in 1820, undertook this publication, or the
Flora Indica, placing on the title-page, "All Thy works praise Thee, O Lord--David."  When
the Roxburgh MSS. were made over to the library of the Botanic Garden at Calcutta, the fourth
and final volume appeared with this note regarding the new edition:--"The work was printed
from MSS. in the possession of Dr. Carey, and it was carried through the press when he was
labouring under the debility of great age...The advanced age of Dr. Carey did not admit of
any longer delay."

His first public attempt at agricultural reform was made in the paper which he contributed
to the Transactions of the Bengal Asiatic Society, and which appeared in 1811 in the tenth
volume of the Asiatic Researches.  In the space of an ordinary Quarterly Review article he
describes the "State of Agriculture in the District of Dinapoor," and urges improvements such
as only the officials, settlers, and Government could begin.  The soils, the "extremely poor"
people, their "proportionally simple and wretched farming utensils," the cattle, the primitive
irrigation alluded to in Deuteronomy as "watering with the foot," and the modes of ploughing
and reaping, are rapidly sketched and illustrated by lithographed figures drawn to scale. 
In greater detail the principal crops are treated.  The staple crop of rice in its many varieties
and harvests at different seasons is lucidly brought before the Government, in language which
it would have been well to remember or reproduce in the subsequent avoidable famines of Orissa
and North Bihar.  Indigo is set before us with the skill of one who had grown and manufactured
it for years.  The hemp and jute plants are enlarged on in language which unconsciously anticipates
the vast and enriching development given to the latter as an export and a local manufacture
since the Crimean War. An account of the oil-seeds and the faulty mode of expressing the oil,
which made Indian linseed oil unfit for painting, is followed by remarks on the cultivation
of wheat, to which subsequent events have given great importance.  Though many parts, even
of Dinapoor, were fit for the growth of wheat and barley, the natives produced only a dark
variety from bad seed. "For the purpose of making a trial I sowed Patna wheat on a large quantity
of land in the year 1798, the flour produced from which was of a very good quality."  The pulses,
tobacco, the egg-plant, the capsicums, the cucumbers, the arum roots, turmeric, ginger, and
sugar-cane, all pass in review in a style which the non-scientific reader may enjoy and the
expert must appreciate.  Improvements in method and the introduction of the best kinds of plants
and vegetables are suggested, notwithstanding "the poverty, prejudices, and indolence of the
natives."

This paper is most remarkable, however, for the true note which its writer was the first to
strike on the subject of forestry.  If we reflect that it was not till 1846 that the Government
made the first attempt at forest conservancy, in order to preserve the timber of Malabar for
the Bombay dockyard; and not till the conquest of Pegu, in 1855, that the Marquis of Dalhousie
was led by the Friend of India to appoint Dietrich Brandis of Bonn to care for the forests
of Burma, and Dr. Cleghorn for those of South India, we shall appreciate the wise foresight
of the missionary-scholar, who, having first made his own park a model of forest teaching,
wrote such words as these early in the century:--"The cultivation of timber has hitherto, I
believe, been wholly neglected.  Several sorts have been planted...all over Bengal, and would
soon furnish a very large share of the timber used in the country.  The sissoo, the Andaman
redwood, the teak, the mahogany, the satin-wood, the chikrasi, the toona, and the sirisha should
be principally chosen.  The planting of these trees single, at the distance of a furlong from
each other, would do no injury to the crops of corn, but would, by cooling the atmosphere,
rather be advantageous. In many places spots now unproductive would be improved by clumps or
small plantations of timber, under which ginger and turmeric might be cultivated to great advantage.
In some situations saul...would prosper.  Indeed the improvements that might be made in this
country by the planting of timber can scarcely be calculated.  Teak is at present brought from
the Burman dominions...The French naturalists have already begun to turn their attention to
the culture of this valuable tree as an object of national utility.  This will be found impracticable
in France, but may perhaps be attempted somewhere else.  To England, the first commercial country
in the world, its importance must be obvious."

Ten years passed, Carey continued to watch and to extend his agri-horticultural experiments
in his own garden, and to correspond with botanists in all parts of the world, but still nothing
was done publicly in India.  At last, on 15th April 1820, when "the advantages arising from
a number of persons uniting themselves as a Society for the purpose of carrying forward any
undertaking" were generally acknowledged, the shoemaker and preacher who had a generation before
tested these advantages in the formation of the first Foreign Mission Society, issued a Prospectus
of an Agricultural and Horticultural Society in India, from the "Mission House, Serampore."
The prospectus thus concluded:--"Both in forming such a Society and in subsequently promoting
its objects, important to the happiness of the country as they regard them, the writer and
his colleagues will be happy in doing all their other avocations will permit."  Native as well
as European gentlemen were particularly invited to co-operate. "It is peculiarly desirable
that native gentlemen should be eligible as members of the Society, because one of its chief
objects will be the improvement of their estates and of the peasantry which reside thereon.
They should therefore not only be eligible as members but also as officers of the Society in
precisely the same manner as Europeans."  At the first meeting in the Town Hall of Calcutta,
Carey and Marshman found only three Europeans beside themselves.  They resolved to proceed,
and in two months they secured more than fifty members, several of whom were natives.  The
first formal meeting was held on 14th September, when the constitution was drawn up on the
lines laid down in the prospectus, it being specially provided "that gentlemen of every nation
be eligible as members."

At the next meeting Dr. Carey was requested to draw up a series of queries, which were circulated
widely, in order to obtain "correct information upon every circumstance which is connected
with the state of agriculture and horticulture in the various provinces of India." The twenty
queries show a grasp of principles, a mastery of detail, and a kindliness of spirit which reveal
the practical farmer, the accomplished observer, and the thoughtful philanthropist all in one.
One only we may quote:--"19.  In what manner do you think the comforts of the peasantry around
you could be increased, their health better secured, and their general happiness promoted?"
The Marquis of Hastings gladly became patron, and ever since the Government has made a grant
to the Society.  His wife showed such an interest in its progress that the members obtained
her consent to sit to Chinnery for her portrait to fill the largest panel in the house at Titigur.
Lord Hastings added the experimental farm, formed near Barrackpore, to the Botanic Garden,
with an immediate view to its assisting the Agricultural Society in their experiments and pursuits.
The Society became speedily popular, for Carey watched its infancy with loving solicitude,
and was the life of its meetings.  In the first eighty-seven years of its existence seven thousand
of the best men in India have been its members, of whom seven hundred are Asiatics.  Agriculturists,
military and medical officers, civilians, clergy, and merchants, are represented on its roll
in nearly equal proportions.  The one Society has grown into three in India, and formed the
model for the Royal Agricultural Society of England, which was not founded till 1838.

Italy and Scotland alone preceded Carey in this organisation, and he quotes with approbation
the action of Sir John Sinclair in 1790, which led to the first inquiry into the state of British
agriculture.  The Transactions which Carey led the Society to promise to publish in English,
Bengali, and Hindostani, have proved to be only the first of a series of special periodicals
representing Indian agriculture generally, tea, and forestry.  The various Governments in India
have economic museums; and the Government of India, under Lord Mayo, established a Revenue
and Agricultural Department expanded by Lord Curzon.  Carey's early proposal of premiums, each
of a hundred rupees, or the Society's gold medal, for the most successful cultivation on a
commercial scale of coffee and improved cotton, for the successful introduction of European
fruits, for the improvement of indigenous fruits, for the successful introduction from the
Eastern Islands of the mangosteen or doorian, and for the manufacture of cheese equal to Warwickshire,
had the best results in some cases.  In 1825 Mr. Lamb of Dacca was presented by "Rev. Dr. Carey
in the chair" with the gold medal for 80 lbs. of coffee grown there.  Carey's own head gardener
became famous for his cabbages; and we find this sentence in the Society's Report just after
the founder's death:--"Who would have credited fifteen years ago that we could have exhibited
vegetables in the Town Hall of Calcutta equal to the choicest in Covent Garden?"  The berries
two centuries ago brought from Arabia in his wallet by the pilgrim Baba Booden to the hills
of Mysore, which bear his name, have, since that Dacca experiment, covered the uplands of South
India and Ceylon. Before Carey died he knew of the discovery of the indigenous tea-tree in
its original home on the Assam border of Tibet--a discovery which has put India in the place
of China as a producer.

In the Society's Proceedings for 9th January 1828 we find this significant record:--"Resolved,
at the suggestion of the Rev. Dr. Carey, that permission be given to Goluk Chundra, a blacksmith
of Titigur, to exhibit a steam engine made by himself without the aid of any European artist."
At the next meeting, when 109 malees or native gardeners competed at the annual exhibition
of vegetables, the steam engine was submitted and pronounced "useful for irrigating lands made
upon the model of a large steam engine belonging to the missionaries at Serampore."  A premium
of Rs. 50 was presented to the ingenious blacksmith as an encouragement to further exertions
of his industry. When in 1832 the afterwards well-known Lieutenant-Governor Thomason was deputy-secretary
to Government, he applied to the Society for information regarding the manufacture of paper.
Dr. Carey and Ram Komal Sen were referred to, and the former thus replied in his usual concise
and clear manner:--

"When we commenced paper-making several years ago, having then no machinery, we employed a
number of native papermakers to make it in the way to which they had been accustomed, with
the exception of mixing conjee or rice gruel with the pulp and using it as sizing; our object
being that of making paper impervious to insects.  Our success at first was very imperfect,
but the process was conducted as follows:--

"A quantity of sunn, viz., the fibres of Crotolaria juncea, was steeped repeatedly in limewater,
and then exposed to the air by spreading it on the grass; it was also repeatedly pounded by
the dhenki or pedal, and when sufficiently reduced by this process to make a pulp, it was mixed
in a gumla with water, so as to make it of the consistence of thick soup.  The frames with
which the sheets were taken up were made of mat of the size of a sheet of paper.  The operator
sitting by the gumla dipped this frame in the pulp, and after it was drained gave it to an
assistant, who laid it on the grass to dry: this finished the process with us; but for the
native market this paper is afterwards sized by holding a number of sheets by the edge and
dipping them carefully in conjee, so as to keep the sheets separate.  They are afterwards dried,
folded, and pressed by putting them between two boards, the upper board of which is loaded
with one or more large stones.

"In the English method the pulp is prepared by the mill and put into cisterns; the frames are
made of fine wire, and the workman stands by the cistern and takes up the pulp on the frames.
The sheets when sufficiently dry are hung on lines to dry completely, after which they are
sized, if sizing be required.

"We now make our paper by machinery, in which the pulp is let to run on a web of wire, and
passing over several cylinders, the last of which is heated by steam, it is dried and fit for
use in about two minutes from its having been in a liquid state."

Since that reply the Government of India, under the pressure of the home authorities, has alternately
discouraged and fostered the manufacture of paper on the spot.  At present it is in the wiser
position of preferring to purchase its supplies in India, at once as being cheaper, and that
it may develop the use of the many paper-making fibres there.  Hence at the Calcutta Exhibition
of 1881-82 the jurors began their report on the machine and hand-made paper submitted to them,
with a reference to Carey and this report of his.  The Serampore mills were gradually crushed
by the expensive and unsatisfactory contracts made at home by the India Office.  The neighbouring
Bally mills seem to flourish since the abandonment of that virtual monopoly, and Carey's anticipations
as to the utilisation of the plantain and other fibres of India are being realised nearly a
century after he first formed them.

Carey expanded and published his "Address respecting an Agricultural Society in India" in the
quarterly Friend of India.  He still thinks it necessary to apologise for his action by quoting
his hero, Brainerd, who was constrained to assist his Indian converts with his counsels in
sowing their maize and arranging their secular concerns. "Few," he adds with the true breadth
of genius which converted the Baptist shoemaker into the Christian statesman and scholar, "who
are extensively acquainted with human life, will esteem these cares either unworthy of religion
or incongruous with its highest enjoyments."  When Carey wrote, the millions of five-acre farmers
in India were only beginning to recover from the oppression and neglect of former rulers and
the visitation of terrific famines.  Trade was as depressed as agriculture. Transit duties,
not less offensive than those of the Chinese, continued to weigh down agricultural industry
till Lord W. Bentinck's time and later.  The English Government levied an unequal scale of
duties on the staples of the East and West Indies, against which the former petitioned in vain.
The East India Company kept the people in ignorance, and continued to exclude the European
capitalist and captain of labour.  The large native landholders were as uneducated as the cultivators.
Before all Carey set these reforms: close attention to the improvement of land, the best method
of cropping land, the introduction of new and useful plants, the improvement of the implements
of husbandry, the improvement of live stock, the bringing of waste lands under cultivation,
the improvement of horticulture.  He went on to show that, in addition to the abundance which
an improved agriculture would diffuse throughout the country, the surplus of grain exported,
besides "her opium, her indigo, her silk, and her cotton," would greatly tend to enrich India
and endear Britain to her. "Whatever may be thought of the Government of Mr. Hastings and those
who immediately preceded him for these last forty years, India has certainly enjoyed such a
Government as none of the provinces of the Persian or the Roman Empire ever enjoyed for so
great a length of time in succession, and, indeed, one almost as new in the annals of modern
Europe as in those of India."

Carey found one of the greatest obstacles to agricultural progress to be the fact that not
one European owned a single foot of the soil, "a singular fact in the history of nations,"
removed only about the time of his own death.  His remarks on this have a present significance:--

"It doubtless originated in a laudable care to preserve our Indian fellow-subjects from insult
and violence, which it was feared could scarcely be done if natives of Britain, wholly unacquainted
with the laws and customs of the people, were permitted to settle indiscriminately in India.
While the wisdom of this regulation at that time is not impugned, however, it may not be improper
to inquire whether at the present time a permission to hold landed property, to be granted
by Government to British subjects in India, according to their own discretion, might not be
of the highest benefit to the country, and in some degree advantageous to the Government itself.

"The objections which have been urged against any measure of this nature are chiefly that the
indiscriminate admission of Europeans into the country might tend to alienate the minds of
the inhabitants from Britain, or possibly lead to its disruption from Britain in a way similar
to that of America.  Respecting this latter circumstance, it is certain that, in the common
course of events, a greater evil could scarcely befall India.  On the continuance of her connection
with Britain is suspended her every hope relative to improvement, security, and happiness.
The moment India falls again under the dominion of any one or any number of native princes,
all hope of mental improvement, or even of security for person or property, will at once vanish.
Nothing could be then expected but scenes of rapine, plunder, bloodshed, and violence, till
its inhabitants were sealed over to irremediable wretchedness, without the most distant ray
of hope respecting the future.  And were it severed from Britain in any other way, the reverse
felt in India would be unspeakably great.  At present all the learning, the intelligence, the
probity, the philanthropy, the weight of character existing in Britain, are brought to bear
on India.  There is scarcely an individual sustaining a part in the administration of affairs
who does not feel the weight of that tribunal formed by the suffrages of the wise and the good
in Britain, though he be stationed in the remotest parts of India.  Through the medium of a
free press the wisdom, probity, and philanthropy which pervade Britain exercise an almost unbounded
sway over every part of India, to the incalculable advantage of its inhabitants; constituting
a triumph of virtue and wisdom thus unknown to the ancients, and which will increase in its
effects in exact proportion to the increase in Britain of justice, generosity, and love to
mankind.  Let India, however, be severed from Britain, and the weight of these is felt no more...

"It is a fact that in case of outrage or injury it is in most cases easier for a native to
obtain justice against a European, than for a European to obtain redress if insulted or wronged
by a native.  This circumstance, attended as it may be with some inconvenience, reflects the
highest honour on the British name; it is a fact of which India affords almost the first instance
on record in the annals of history. Britain is nearly the first nation in whose foreign Courts
of Justice a tenderness for the native inhabitants habitually prevails over all the partialities
arising from country and education.  If there ever existed a period, therefore, in which a
European could oppress a native of India with impunity, that time is passed away--we trust
for ever.  That a permission of this nature might tend to sever India from Britain after the
example of America is of all things the most improbable...

"Long before the number of British landholders in India shall have become considerable, Penang
and the Eastern Isles, Ceylon, the Cape, and even the Isles of New South Wales, may in European
population far exceed them in number; and unitedly, if not singly, render the most distant
step of this nature as impracticable, as it would be ruinous, to the welfare and happiness
of India...

"British-born landholders would naturally maintain all their national attachments, for what
Briton can lose them? and derive their happiness from corresponding with the wise and good
at home. If sufficiently wealthy, they would no doubt occasionally visit Britain, where indeed
it might be expected that some of them would reside for years together, as do the owners of
estates in the West Indies.  While Britain shall remain what she now is, it will be impossible
for those who have once felt the force of British attachments, ever to forego them.  Those
feelings would animate their minds, occupy their conversation, and regulate the education and
studies of their children, who would be in general sent home that they might there imbibe all
those ideas of a moral and intellectual nature for which our beloved country is so eminent.
Thus a new intercourse would be established between Britain and the proprietors of land in
India, highly to the advantage of both countries.  While they derived their highest happiness
from the religion, the literature, the philanthropy and public spirit of Britain, they would,
on the other hand, be able to furnish Britain with the most accurate and ample information
relative to the state of things in a country in which the property they held there constrained
them to feel so deep an interest.  The fear of all oppression being out of the question, while
it would be so evidently the interest not only of every Briton but of every Christian, whether
British or native, to secure the protecting aid of Britain, at least as long as two-thirds
of the inhabitants of India retained the Hindoo or Mussulman system of religion, few things
would be more likely to cement and preserve the connection between both countries than the
existence of such a class of British-born landholders in India."

It is profitable to read this in the light of subsequent events--of the Duff-Bentinck reforms,
the Sepoy mutiny, the government of the Queen-Empress, the existence of more than three millions
of Christians in India, the social and commercial development due to the non-officials from
Great Britain and America, and the administrative progress under Lord Curzon and Lord Minto.

There is one evil which Carey never ceased to point out, but which the very perfection of our
judicial procedure and the temporary character of our land assessments have intensified--"the
borrowing system of the natives."  While 12 per cent. is the so-called legal rate of interest;
it is never below 36, and frequently rises to 72 per cent.  Native marriage customs, the commercial
custom of "advances," agricultural usage, and our civil procedure combine to sink millions
of the peasantry lower than they were, in this respect, in Carey's time.  For this, too, he
had a remedy so far as it was in his power to mitigate an evil which only practical Christianity
will cure.  He was the first to apply in India that system of savings banks which the Government
has of late sought to encourage.

At a time when the English and even Scottish universities denied their honorary degrees to
all British subjects who were not of the established churches, Brown University, in the United
States--Judson's--spontaneously sent Carey the diploma of Doctor of Divinity.  That was in
the year 1807.  In 1823 he was elected a corresponding member of the Horticultural Society
of London, a member of the Geological Society, and a Fellow of the Linnæan Society.  To him
the latter year was ever memorable, not for such honours which he had not sought, but for a
flood of the Damoodar river, which, overflowing its embankments and desolating the whole country
between it and the Hoogli, submerged his garden and the mission grounds with three feet of
water, swept away the botanic treasures or buried them under sand, and destroyed his own house.
Carey was lying in bed at the time, under an apparently fatal fever following dislocation of
the hip-joint.  He had lost his footing when stepping from his boat.  Surgical science was
then less equal to such a case than it is now, and for nine days he suffered agony, which on
the tenth resulted in fever.  When hurriedly carried out of his tottering house, which in a
few hours was scoured away by the rush of the torrent into a hole fifty feet deep, his first
thought was of his garden.  For six months he used crutches, but long before he could put foot
to the ground he was carefully borne all over the scene of desolation.  His noble collection
of exotic plants, unmatched in Asia save in the Company's garden, was gone.  His scientific
arrangement of orders and families was obliterated.  It seemed as if the fine barren sand of
the mountain torrent would make the paradise a desert for ever.  The venerable botanist was
wounded in his keenest part, but he lost not an hour in issuing orders and writing off for
new supplies of specimens and seeds, which years after made the place as lovely if not so precious,
as before.  He thus wrote to Dr. Ryland:--

"SERAMPORE, 22nd December 1823.

"MY DEAR BROTHER--I once more address you from the land of the living, a mercy which about
two months ago I had no expectation of, nor did any one expect it more than, nor perhaps so
much as, myself. On the 1st of October I went to Calcutta to preach, and returned with another
friend about midnight.  When I got out of the boat close to our own premises, my foot slipped
and I fell; my friend also fell in the same place.  I however perceived that I could not rise,
nor even make the smallest effort to rise.  The boatmen carried me into the house, and laid
me on a couch, and my friend, who was a medical man, examined my hurt.--From all this affliction
I am, through mercy, nearly restored.  I am still very weak, and the injured limb is very painful.
I am unable to walk two steps without crutches; yet my strength is sensibly increasing, and
Dr. Mellis, who attended me during the illness, says he has no doubts of my perfect recovery.

"During my confinement, in October, such a quantity of water came down from the western hills,
that it laid the whole country for about a hundred miles in length and the same in breadth,
under water.  The Ganges was filled by the flood, so as to spread far on every side. Serampore
was under water; we had three feet of water in our garden for seven or eight days.  Almost
all the houses of the natives in that vast extent of country fell; their cattle were swept
away, and the people, men, women, and children.  Some gained elevated spots, where the water
still rose so high as to threaten them with death; others climbed trees, and some floated on
the roofs of their ruined houses.  One of the Church missionaries, Mr. Jetter, who had accompanied
Mr. Thomason and some other gentlemen to Burdwan to examine the schools there, called on me
on his return and gave me a most distressing account of the fall of houses, the loss of property,
the violent rushing of waters, so that none, not even the best swimmers, dared to leave the
place where they were.

"This inundation was very destructive to the Mission house, or rather the Mission premises.
A slip of the earth (somewhat like that of an avalanche), took place on the bank of the river
near my house, and gradually approached it until only about ten feet of space were left between
that and the house; and that space soon split.  At last two fissures appeared in the foundation
and wall of the house itself.  This was a signal for me to remove; and a house built for a
professor in the College being empty, I removed to it, and through mercy am now comfortably
settled there.

"I have nearly filled my letter with this account, but I must give you a short account of the
state of my mind when I could think, and that was generally when excited by an access of friends;
at other times I could scarcely speak or think.  I concluded one or two days that my death
was near.  I had no joys; nor any fear of death, or reluctance to die; but never was I so sensibly
convinced of the value of an ATONING Saviour as then.  I could only say, 'Hangs my helpless
soul on thee;' and adopt the language of the first and second verses of the fifty-first Psalm,
which I desired might be the text for my funeral sermon.  A life of faith in Christ as the
Lamb of God who taketh away the sin of the world, appeared more than ordinarily important to
my mind, and I expressed these feelings to those about me with freedom and pleasure.

"Now, through the gracious providence of God, I am again restored to my work, and daily do
a little as my strength will admit.  The printing of the translations is now going forward
almost as usual, but I have not yet been able to attend to my duties in College.  The affairs
of the Mission are more extended, and I trust in as prosperous a state as at any former time.
There are now many of other denominations employed in Missions, and I rejoice to say that we
are all workers together in the work.  The native churches were never in a better state, and
the face of the Mission is in every respect encouraging.  Give my love to all who know me.--I
am very affectionately yours, W. CAREY."

Still more severe and disastrous in its effects was the cyclone of 1831.  The former had desolated
the open garden, but this laid low some of the noblest trees which, in their fall, crushed
his splendid conservatory.  One of his brethren represents the old man as weeping over the
ruin of the collections of twenty years.  Again the Hoogli, lashed into fury and swollen by
the tidal wave, swept away the lately-formed road, and, cutting off another fourth of the original
settlement of the Mission, imperilled the old house of Mr. Ward. Its ruins were levelled to
form another road, and ever since the whole face of the right bank of the river has been a
source of apprehension and expense.  Just before this, Dr. Staughton had written from America
that the interest on the funds raised there by Ward for the College would not be sent until
the trustees were assured that the money was not to be spent on the teaching of science in
the College, but only on the theological education of Hindoo converts. "I must confess," was
Carey's reply, "I never heard anything more illiberal.  Pray can youth be trained up for the
Christian ministry without science?  Do you in America train up youths for it without any knowledge
of science?"

One of Dr. Carey's latest visits to Calcutta was to inspect the Society's Garden then at Alipore,
and to write the elaborate report of the Horticultural Committee which appeared in the second
volume of the Transactions after his death.  He there records the great success of the cultivation
of the West India arrowroot.  This he introduced into his own garden, and after years of discontinued
culture we raised many a fine crop from the old roots.  The old man "cannot but advert, with
feelings of the highest satisfaction, to the display of vegetables on the 13th January 1830,
a display which would have done honour to any climate, or to any, even the most improved system
of horticulture...The greater part of the vegetables then produced were, till within these
last few years, of species wholly unknown to the native gardeners."

When, in 1842, the Agri-Horticultural Society resolved to honour its founder, it appropriately
fell to Dr. Wallich, followed by the president Sir J. P. Grant, to do what is thus recorded:--"Dr.
Wallich addressed the meeting at some length, and alluded to the peculiar claims which their
late venerable founder had on the affection of all classes for his untiring exertions in advancing
the prosperity of India, and especially so on the members of the Society.  He concluded his
address by this motion:--'That the Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India, duly estimating
the great and important services rendered to the interests of British India by the founder
of the institution, the late Reverend Dr. William Carey, who unceasingly applied his great
talents, abilities, and influence in advancing the happiness of India--more especially by the
spread of an improved system of husbandry and gardening--desire to mark, by some permanent
record, their sense of his transcendent worth, by placing a marble bust to his memory in the
Society's new apartments at the Metcalfe Hall, there to remain a lasting testimony to the pure
and disinterested zeal and labours of so illustrious a character: that a subscription, accordingly,
from among the members of the Society, be urgently recommended for the accomplishment of the
above object.'"

One fact in the history of the marble bust of Carey, which since 1845 has adorned the hall
of the Agricultural Society of India, would have delighted the venerable missionary.  Following
the engraving from Home's portrait, and advised by one of the sons, Nobo Koomar Pal, a self-educated
Bengali artist, modelled the clay.  The clay bust was sent to England for the guidance of Mr.
J. C. Lough, the sculptor selected by Dr. Royle to finish the work in marble. Mr. Lough had
executed the Queen's statue for the Royal Exchange, and the monument with a reclining figure
of Southey.  In sending out the marble bust of Carey to Calcutta Dr. Royle wrote,--"I think
the bust an admirable one; General Macleod immediately recognised it as one of your much esteemed
Founder."

The Bengal Asiatic Society, on the motion of the Lord Bishop and Colonel Sir Jer. Bryant, entered
these words on their Journal:--"The Asiatic Society cannot note upon their proceedings the
death of the Rev. W. Carey, D.D., so long an active member and an ornament of this Institution,
distinguished alike for his high attainments in the Oriental languages, for his eminent services
in opening the stores of Indian literature to the knowledge of Europe, and for his extensive
acquaintance with the sciences, the natural history and botany of this country, and his useful
contributions on every hand towards the promotion of the objects of the Society, without placing
on record this expression of their high sense of his value and merits as a scholar and a man
of science; their esteem for the sterling and surpassing religious and moral excellencies of
his character, and their sincere grief for his irreparable loss."

CHAPTER XIII

CAREY'S IMMEDIATE INFLUENCE IN GREAT BRITAIN AND AMERICA

1813-1830

Carey's relation to the new era--The East India Company's Charters of 1793, 1813, and 1833--His
double influence on the churches and public opinion--The great missionary societies--Missionary
journals and their readers--Bengal and India recognised as the most important mission fields--Influence
on Robert Haldane--Reflex effect of foreign on home missions--Carey's power over individuals--Melville
Horne and Douglas of Cavers--Henry Martyn--Charles Simeon and Stewart of Moulin--Robert Hall
and John Foster--Heber and Chalmers--William Wilberforce on Carey--Mr. Prendergast and the
tub story--Last persecution by the Company's Government--Carey on the persecution and the charter
controversy--The persecuting clause and the resolution legalising toleration--The Edinburgh
Review and Sydney Smith's fun--Sir James Mackintosh's opinion--Southey's defence and eulogy
of Carey and the brotherhood in the Quarterly Review--Political value of Carey's labours--Andrew
Fuller's death--A model foreign mission secretary--His friendship with Carey--The sixteen years'
dispute--Dr. Carey's position--His defence of Marshman--His chivalrous self-sacrifice--His
forgiveness of the younger brethren in Calcutta--His fidelity to righteousness and to friendship.

Himself the outcome of the social and political forces which began in the French Revolution,
and are still at work, William Carey was made a living personal force to the new era.  The
period which was introduced in 1783 by the Peace of Versailles in Europe following the Independence
of the United States of America, was new on every side--in politics, in philosophy, in literature,
in scientific research, in a just and benevolent regard for the peoples of every land, and
in the awakening of the churches from the sleep of formalism.  Carey was no thinker, but with
the reality and the vividness of practical action and personal sacrifice he led the English-speaking
races, to whom the future of the world was then given, to substitute for the dreams of Rousseau
and all other theories the teaching of Christ as to His kingdom within each man, and in the
progress of mankind.

Set free from the impossible task of administering North America on the absolutist system which
the Georges would fain have continued, Great Britain found herself committed to the duty of
doing for India what Rome had done for Europe.  England was compelled to surrender the free
West to her own children only that she might raise the servile and idolatrous East to such
a Christian level as the genius of its peoples could in time enable them to work out.  But
it took the thirty years from 1783 to 1813 to convince British statesmen, from Pitt to Castlereagh,
that India is to be civilised not according to its own false systems, but by truth in all forms,
spiritual and moral, scientific and historical.  It took other twenty years, to the Charter
of 1833, to complete the conversion of the British Parliament to the belief that the principles
of truth and freedom are in their measure as good for the East as for the West. At the beginning
of this new period William Pitt based his motion for Parliamentary reform on this fact, that
"our senators are no longer the representatives of British virtue but of the vices and pollutions
of the East." At the close of it Lord William Bentinck, Macaulay, and Duff, co-operated in
the decree which made truth, as most completely revealed through the English language and literature,
the medium of India's enlightenment.  William Carey's career of fifty years, from his baptism
in 1783 and the composition of his Enquiry to his death in 1834, covered and influenced more
than any other one man's the whole time; and he represented in it an element of permanent healthy
nationalisation which these successors overlooked,--the use of the languages of the peoples
of India as the only literary channels for allowing the truth revealed through English to reach
the millions of the people.

It was by this means that Carey educated Great Britain and America to rise equal to the terrible
trust of jointly creating a Christian Empire of India, and ultimately a series of self-governing
Christian nations in Southern and Eastern Asia. He consciously and directly roused the Churches
of all names to carry out the commission of their Master, and to seek the promised impulse
of His Spirit or Divine Representative on earth, that they might do greater things than even
those which He did. And he, less directly but not less consciously, brought the influence of
public opinion, which every year purified and quickened, to bear upon Parliament and upon individual
statesmen, aided in this up till 1815 by Andrew Fuller. He never set foot in England again,
and the influence of his brethren Ward and Marshman during their visits was largely neutralised
by some leaders of their own church.  But Carey's character and career, his letters and writings,
his work and whole personality, stood out in England, Scotland, and America as the motive power
which stimulated every church and society, and won the triumph of toleration in the charter
of 1813, of humanity, education, and administrative reform in the legislation of Lord William
Bentinck.

We have already seen how the immediate result of Carey's early letters was the foundation on
a catholic basis of the London Missionary Society, which now represents the great Nonconformist
half of England; of the Edinburgh or Scottish and Glasgow Societies, through which the Presbyterians
sent forth missionaries to West and South Africa and to Western India, until their churches
acted as such; of the Church Missionary Society which the evangelical members of the Church
of England have put in the front of all the societies; and of Robert Haldane's splendid self-sacrifice
in selling all that he had to lead a large Presbyterian mission to Hindostan.  Soon (1797)
the London Society became the parent of that of the Netherlands, and of that which is one of
the most extensive in Christendom, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions.
The latter, really founded (1810) by Judson and some of his fellow-students, gave birth (1814)
to the almost equally great American Baptist Union when Judson and his colleague became Baptists,
and the former was sent by Carey to Burma. The Religious Tract Society (1799), and the British
and Foreign Bible Society (1804)--each a handmaid of the missionary agencies--sprang as really
though less directly from Carey's action.  Such organised efforts to bring in heathen and Mohammedan
peoples led in 1809 to the at first catholic work begun by the London Society for promoting
Christianity among the Jews. The older Wesleyan Methodist and Gospel Propagation Societies,
catching the enthusiasm as Carey succeeded in opening India and the East, entered on a new
development under which the former in 1813, and the latter in 1821, no longer confined their
operations to the slaves of America and the English of the dispersion in the colonies and dependencies
of Great Britain.  In 1815 Lutheran Germany also, which had cast out the Pietists and the Moravian
brethren as the Church of England had rejected the Wesleyans, founded the principal representative
of its evangelicalism at Basel.  The succeeding years up to Carey's death saw similar missionary
centres formed, or reorganised, in Leipzig (1819), Berlin (1823), and Bremen (1836).[23]

The Periodical Accounts sent home from Mudnabati and Serampore, beginning at the close of 1794,
and the Monthly Circular Letters after 1807, gave birth not only to these great missionary
movements but to the new and now familiar class of foreign missionary periodicals.  The few
magazines then existing, like the Evangelical, became filled with a new spirit of earnest aggressiveness.
In 1796 there appeared in Edinburgh The Missionary Magazine, "a periodical publication intended
as a repository of discussion and intelligence respecting the progress of the Gospel throughout
the world."  The editors close their preface in January 1797 with this statement:--"With much
pleasure they have learned that there was never a greater number of religious periodical publications
carried on than at present, and never were any of them more generally read. The aggregate impression
of those alone which are printed in Britain every month considerably exceeds thirty thousand."
The first article utilises the facts sent home by Dr. Carey as the fruit of his first two years'
experience, to show "The Peculiar Advantages of Bengal as a Field for Missions from Great Britain."
After describing, in the style of an English statesman, the immense population, the highly
civilised state of society, the eagerness of the natives in the acquisition of knowledge, and
the principles which the Hindoos and Mohammedans hold in common with Christians, the writer
thus continues:--

"The attachment of both the Mohammedans and Hindoos to their ancient systems is lessening every
day.  We have this information from the late Sir William Jones, one of the Judges of that country,
a name dear to literature, and a lover of the religion of Jesus.  The Mussulmans in Hindostan
are in general but little acquainted with their system, and by no means so zealous for it as
their brethren in the Turkish and Persian empires.  Besides, they have not the strong arm of
civil authority to crush those who would convert them.  Mr. Carey's letters seem to intimate
the same relaxation among the Hindoos.  This decay of prejudice and bigotry will at least incline
them to listen with more patience, and a milder temper, to the doctrines and evidences of the
Christian religion.  The degree of adhesion to their castes, which still remains, is certainly
unfavourable, and must be considered as one of Satan's arts to render men unhappy; but it is
not insuperable.  The Roman Catholics have gained myriads of converts from among them.  The
Danish missionaries record their thousands too: and one (Schwartz) of the most successful missionaries
at present in the world is labouring in the southern part of Hindostan.  Besides a very considerable
number who have thrown aside their old superstition, and make a profession of the Christian
religion, he computes that, in the course of his ministry, he has been the instrument of savingly
converting two thousand persons to the faith of Christ.  Of these, above five hundred are Mohammedans:
the rest are from among the different castes of the Hindoos.  In addition to these instances,
it is proper to notice the attention which the Hindoos are paying to the two Baptist missionaries,
and which gives a favourable specimen of their readiness to listen to the preaching of the
Gospel...

"Reflect, O disciple of Jesus! on what has been presented to thy view. The cause of Christ
is thy own cause.  Without deep criminality thou canst not be indifferent to its success. 
Rejoice that so delightful a field of missions has been discovered and exhibited.  Rouse thyself
from the slumbers of spiritual languor. Exert thyself to the utmost of thy power; and let conscience
be able to testify, without a doubt, even at the tribunal of Jesus Christ, If missionaries
are not speedily sent to preach she glorious Gospel in Bengal, it shall not be owing to me."

That is remarkable writing for an Edinburgh magazine in the year 1797, and it was Carey who
made it possible.  Its author followed up the appeal by offering himself and his all, for life
and death, in a "Plan of the Mission to Bengal," which appeared in the April number. Robert
Haldane, whose journal at this time was full of Carey's doings, and his ordained associates,
Bogue, Innes, and Greville Ewing, accompanied by John Ritchie as printer, John Campbell as
catechist, and other lay workers, determined to turn the very centre of Hindooism, Benares,
into a second Serampore.  Defeated by one set of Directors of the East India Company, he waited
for the election of their successors, only to find the East India Company as hostile to the
Scottish gentleman as they had been to the English shoemaker four years before.

The formation of the great Missionary and Bible Societies did not, as in the case of the Moravian
Brethren and the Wesleyans, take their members out of the Churches of England and Scotland,
of the Baptists and Independents.  It supplied in each case an executive through which they
worked aggressively not only on the non-christian world, but still more directly on their own
home congregations and parishes.  The foreign mission spirit directly gave birth to the home
mission on an extensive scale.  Not merely did the Haldanes and their agents, following Whitefield
and the Scottish Secession of 1733, become the evangelists of the north when they were not
suffered to preach the Gospel in South Asia; every member of the churches of Great Britain
and America, as he caught the enthusiasm of humanity, in the Master's sense, from the periodical
accounts sent home from Serampore, and soon from Africa and the South Seas, as well as from
the Red Indians and Slaves of the West, began to work as earnestly among the neglected classes
around him, as to pray and give for the conversion of the peoples abroad.  From first to last,
from the early days of the Moravian influence on Wesley and Whitefield, and the letters of
Carey, to the successive visits to the home churches of missionaries like Duff and Judson,
Ellis and Williams, Moffat and Livingstone, it is the enterprise of foreign missions which
has been the leaven of Christendom no less really than of the rest of the world.  Does the
fact that at the close of the year 1796 there were more than thirty thousand men and women
in Great Britain who every month read and prayed about the then little known world of heathenism,
and spared not their best to bring that world to the Christ whom they had found, seem a small
thing?  How much smaller, even to contemptible insignificance, must those who think so consider
the arrival of William Carey in Calcutta to be three years before!  Yet the thirty thousand
sprang from the one, and to-day the thirty thousand have a vast body of Christians really obedient
to the Master, in so far as, banded together in five hundred churches and societies, they have
sent out eighteen thousand missionaries instead of one or two; they see eighty thousand Asiatics,
Africans, and Polynesians proclaiming the Christ to their countrymen, and their praying is
tested by their giving annually a sum of £5,000,000, to which every year is adding.

The influence of Carey and his work on individual men and women in his generation was even
more marked, inasmuch as his humility kept him so often from magnifying his office and glorifying
God as the example of Paul should have encouraged him to do.  Most important of all for the
cause, he personally called Ward to be his associate, and his writings drew Dr. and Mrs. Marshman
to his side, while his apostolic charity so developed and used all that was good in Thomas
and Fountain, that not even in the churches of John and James, Peter and Paul, Barnabas and
Luke, was there such a brotherhood.  When troubles came from outside he won to himself the
younger brethren, Yates and Pearce, and healed half the schism which Andrew Fuller's successors
made.  His Enquiry, followed "by actually embarking on a mission to India," led to the publication
of the Letters on Missions addressed to the Protestant Ministers of the British Churches by
Melville Horne, who, after a brief experience as Church of England chaplain in Zachary Macaulay's
settlement of Sierra Leone, published that little book to excite in all Christians a passion
for missions like the Master's.  Referring to the English churches, Established and Nonconformist,
he wrote:--"Except the Reverend Mr. Carey and a friend who accompanies him, I am not informed
of any...ministers who are engaged in missions."  Such was the impression made by Carey on
John Newton that, in 1802, he rebuked his old curate, Claudius Buchanan, for depreciating the
Serampore missionaries, adding, "I do not look for miracles, but if God were to work one in
our day, I should not wonder if it were in favour of Dr. Carey."

The Serampore Mission, at an early period, called forth the admiration of the Scottish philanthropist
and essayist, James Douglas of Cavers, whose Hints on Missions (1822), a book still full of
suggestiveness, contains this passage:--"Education and the press have only been employed to
purpose of very late years, especially by the missionaries of Serampore; every year they have
been making some improvements upon their former efforts, and...it only requires to increase
the number of printing presses, schools, teachers, translators, and professors, to accelerate
to any pitch the rate of improvement...To attempt to convert the world without educating it,
is grasping at the end and neglecting the means."  Referring to what Carey had begun and the
Serampore College had helped to develop in Asia, as in Africa and America, Douglas of Cavers
well described the missionary era, the new crusade:--"The Reformation itself needed anew a
reform in the spirit if not in the letter.  That second Reformation has begun; it makes less
noise than that of Luther, but it spreads wider and deeper; as it is more intimate it will
be more enduring.  Like the Temple of Solomon, it is rising silently, without the din of pressure
or the note of previous preparation, but notwithstanding it will be not less complete in all
its parts nor less able to resist the injuries of time!"

Henry Martyn died, perhaps the loftiest and most loving spirit of the men whom Carey drew to
India.  Son of a Cornish miner-captain, after passing through the Truro Grammar School, he
was sixteen--the age at which Carey became a shoemaker's apprentice--when he was entered at
St. John's, and made that ever since the most missionary of all the colleges of Cambridge.
When not yet twenty he came out Senior Wrangler.  His father's death drove him to the Bible,
to the Acts of the Apostles, which he began to study, and the first whisper of the call of
Christ came to him in the joy of the Magnificat as its strains pealed through the chapel. 
Charles Simeon's preaching drew him to Trinity Church.  In the vicarage, when he had come to
be tutor of his college, and was preparing for the law, he heard much talk of William Carey,
of his self-sacrifice and his success in India.  It was the opening year of the nineteenth
century, the Church Missionary Society had just been born as the fruit partly of a paper written
by Simeon four years previously, and he offered himself as its first English missionary.  He
was not twenty-one, he could not be ordained for two years.  Meanwhile a calamity made him
and his unmarried sister penniless; he loved Lydia Grenfell with a pure passion which enriched
while it saddened his short life, and a chaplaincy became the best mode in every way of his
living and dying for India.  What a meeting must that have been between him and Carey when,
already stricken by fever, he found a sanctuary in Aldeen, and learned at Serampore the sweetness
of telling to the natives of India in one of their own tongues the love of God. William Carey
and Henry Martyn were one in origin, from the people; in industry, as scholars; in genius,
as God-devoted; in the love of a great heart not always returned.  The older man left the church
of his fathers because there was no Simeon and no missionary society, and he made his own university;
he laid the foundation of English missions deep and broad in no sect but in Christ, to whom
he and Martyn alike gave themselves.

The names of Carey and Simeon, thus linked to each other by Martyn, find another pleasant and
fruitful tie in the Rev. Alexander Stewart, D.D., Gaelic scholar and Scottish preacher.  It
was soon after Carey went out to India that Simeon, travelling in the Highlands, spent a Sunday
in the manse of Moulin, where his personal intercourse and his evening sermon after a season
of Communion were blessed to the evangelical enlightenment of Stewart.  Moulin was the birthplace
ten years after of Alexander Duff, whose parents previously came under the power of the minister's
new-found light.[24] Like Simeon, Dr. Stewart thenceforth became a warm supporter of foreign
missions.  Finding in the Periodical Accounts a letter in which Carey asked Fuller to send
him a copy of Van der Hooght's edition of the Hebrew Bible because of the weakness of his eyesight,
Dr. Stewart at once wrote offering his own copy.  Fuller gladly accepted the kindness. "I with
great pleasure," writes Dr. Stewart, "followed the direction, wrote a letter of some length
to Carey, and sent off my parcel to London.  I daresay you remember my favourite Hebrew Bible
in two volumes.  I parted with it with something of the same feelings that a pious parent might
do with a favourite son going on a mission to the heathen--with a little regret but with much
goodwill."  This was the beginning of an interesting correspondence with Carey and Fuller.

Next to Andrew Fuller, and in the region of literature, general culture and eloquence before
him, the strongest men among the Baptists were the younger Robert Hall and John Foster.  Both
were devoted to Carey, and were the most powerful of the English advocates of his mission.
The former, for a time, was led to side with the Society in some of the details of its dispute
with Dr. Marshman, but his loyalty to Carey and the principles of the mission fired some of
the most eloquent orations in English literature. John Foster's shrewder common sense never
wavered, but inspired his pen alike in the heat of controversy and in his powerful essays and
criticisms.  Writing in 1828, he declared that the Serampore missionaries "have laboured with
the most earnest assiduity for a quarter of a century (Dr. Carey much longer) in all manner
of undertakings for promoting Christianity, with such a renunciation of self-interest as will
never be surpassed; that they have conveyed the oracles of divine truth into so many languages;
that they have watched over diversified missionary operations with unremitting care; that they
have conducted themselves through many trying and some perilous circumstances with prudence
and fortitude; and that they retain to this hour an undiminished zeal to do all that providence
shall enable them in the same good cause."  The expenditure of the Serampore Brotherhood up
to that time, leaving out of account the miscellaneous missionary services, he showed to have
been upwards of £75,000.  Dr. Chalmers in Scotland was as stoutly with Carey and his brethren
as Foster was in England, so that Marshman wrote:--"Thus two of the greatest and wisest men
of England are on our side, and, what is more, I trust the Lord God is with us."  What Heber
thought, alike as man and bishop, his own loving letter and proposal for "reunion of our churches"
in the next chapter will show.

Of all the publicists in the United Kingdom during Carey's long career the foremost was William
Wilberforce; he was not second even to Charles Grant and his sons.  Defeated in carrying into
law the "pious clauses" of the charter which would have opened India to the Christian missionary
and schoolmaster in 1793, he nevertheless succeeded by his persuasive eloquence and the weight
of his character in having them entered as Resolutions of the House of Commons.  He then gave
himself successfully to the abolition of the slave-trade.  But he always declared the toleration
of Christianity in British India to be "that greatest of all causes, for I really place it
before the abolition, in which, blessed be God, we gained the victory."  His defeat in 1793,
when Dundas and the Government were with him, was due to the apathy of public opinion, and
especially of the dumb churches.  But in the next twenty years Carey changed all that.  Not
merely was Andrew Fuller ever on the watch with pen and voice, but all the churches were roused,
the Established to send out bishops and chaplains, the Nonconformist and Established Evangelicals
together to secure freedom for missionaries and schoolmasters.  In 1793 an English missionary
was an unknown and therefore a much-dreaded monster, for Carey was then on the sea.  In 1813
Carey and the Serampore Brotherhood were still the only English missionaries continuously at
work in India, and not the churches only, but governor-generals like Teignmouth and Wellesley,
and scholars like Colebrooke and H. H. Wilson, were familiar with the grandeur and political
innocency of their labours.  Hence this outburst of Wilberforce in the House of Commons on
the 16th July 1813, when he used the name of Carey to defeat an attempt of the Company to prevent
toleration by omitting the declaratory clauses of the Resolution, which would have made it
imply that the privilege should never be exerted though the power of licensing missionaries
was nominally conceded.

"One great argument of his opponents was grounded on the enthusiastic character which they
imputed to the missionary body. India hitherto has seen no missionary who was a member of the
English Church, and imputations could be cast more readily on 'Anabaptists and fanatics.' These
attacks Mr. Wilberforce indignantly refuted, and well had the noble conduct of the band at
Serampore deserved this vindication. 'I do not know,' he often said, 'a finer instance of the
moral sublime, than that a poor cobbler working in his stall should conceive the idea of converting
the Hindoos to Christianity; yet such was Dr. Carey.  Why Milton's planning his Paradise Lost
in his old age and blindness was nothing to it.  And then when he had gone to India, and was
appointed by Lord Wellesley to a lucrative and honourable station in the college of Fort William,
with equal nobleness of mind he made over all his salary (between £1000 and £1500 per annum)
to the general objects of the mission.  By the way, nothing ever gave me a more lively sense
of the low and mercenary standard of your men of honour, than the manifest effect produced
upon the House of Commons by my stating this last circumstance.  It seemed to be the only thing
which moved them.'  Dr. Carey had been especially attacked, and 'a few days afterwards the
member who had made this charge came to me, and asked me in a manner which in a noted duellist
could not be mistaken, "Pray, Mr. Wilberforce, do you know a Mr. Andrew Fuller, who has written
to desire me to retract the statement which I made with reference to Dr. Carey?" "Yes," I answered
with a smile, "I know him perfectly, but depend upon it you will make nothing of him in your
way; he is a respectable Baptist minister at Kettering."  In due time there came from India
an authoritative contradiction of the slander.  It was sent to me, and for two whole years
did I take it in my pocket to the House of Commons to read it to the House whenever the author
of the accusation should be present; but during that whole time he never once dared show himself
in the House.'"

The slanderer was a Mr. Prendergast, who affirmed that Dr. Carey's conduct had changed so much
for the worse since the departure of Lord Wellesley, that he himself had seen the missionary
on a tub in the streets of Calcutta haranguing the mob and abusing the religion of the people
in such a way that the police alone saved him from being killed. So, and for the same object
of defeating the Resolutions on Toleration, Mr. Montgomerie Campbell had asserted that when
Schwartz was in the heat of his discourse in a certain village and had taken off his stock,
"that and his gold buckle were stolen by one of his virtuous and enlightened congregation;
in such a description of natives did the doctrine of the missionaries operate."  Before Dr.
Carey's exposure could reach England this "tub" story became the stock argument of the anti-christian
orators. The Madras barrister, Marsh, who was put up to answer Wilberforce, was driven to such
language as this:--

"Your struggles are only begun when you have converted one caste; never will the scheme of
Hindoo conversion be realised till you persuade an immense population to suffer by whole tribes
the severest martyrdom that has yet been sustained for the sake of religion--and are the missionaries
whom this bill will let loose on India fit engines for the accomplishment of this great revolution?
Will these people, crawling from the holes and caverns of their original destinations, apostates
from the loom and the anvil--he should have said the awl--and renegades from the lowest handicraft
employments, be a match for the cool and sedate controversies they will have to encounter should
the Brahmans condescend to enter into the arena against the maimed and crippled gladiators
that presume to grapple with their faith?  What can be apprehended but the disgrace and discomfiture
of whole hosts of tub preachers in the conflict?"

Lord Wellesley's eulogy of the Serampore mission in the House of Lords was much more pronounced
than appears from the imperfect report.  But even in that he answered the Brahmanised member
of the House of Commons thus:--

"With regard to the missionaries, he must say that while he was in India he never knew of any
danger arising from their proceedings, neither had he heard of any impression produced by them
in the way of conversion.  The greater number of them were in the Danish settlement of Serampore;
but he never heard of any convulsions or any alarm produced by them.  Some of them, particularly
Mr. Carey, were very learned men, and had been employed in the College of Fort William.  He
had always considered the missionaries who were in India in his time a quiet, orderly, discreet,
and learned body; and he had employed them in the education of youth and the translation of
the Scriptures into the eastern languages.  He had thought it his duty to have the Sacred Scriptures
translated into the languages of the East, and to give the learned natives employed in the
translation the advantage of access to the sacred fountain of divine truth.  He thought a Christian
governor could not have done less; and he knew that a British governor ought not to do more."

Carey's letters to Fuller in 1810-12 are filled with importunate appeals to agitate, so that
the new charter might legalise Christian mission work in India.  Fuller worked outside of the
House as hard as Wilberforce.  In eight weeks of the session no fewer than nine hundred petitions
were presented, in twenties and thirties, night after night, till Lord Castlereagh exclaimed,
"This is enough, Mr. Fuller."  There was more reason for Carey's urgency than he knew at the
time he was pressing Fuller.  The persecution of the missionaries in Bengal, excused by the
Vellore mutiny, which had driven Judson to Burma and several other missionaries elsewhere,
was renewed by the Indian Government's secretaries and police.  The Ministry had informed the
Court of Directors that they had resolved to permit Europeans to settle in India, yet after
five weeks' vacillation the Governor-General yielded to his subordinates so far as to issue
an order on 5th March 1812, for the expulsion of three missionaries, an order which was so
executed that one of them was conducted like a felon through the streets and lodged in the
native jail for two hours.  Carey thus wrote to Ryland on the persecution:--

"CALCUTTA, 14th April 1813.--Before this reaches you it is probable that you will have heard
of the resolution of Government respecting our brethren Johns, Lawson, and Robinson, and will
perhaps have even seen Brother Johns, who was by that cruel order sent home on the Castlereagh.
Government have agreed that Brother Lawson shall stay till the pleasure of the Court of Directors
is known, to whom a reference will be made.  Brother Robinson was gone down the river, and
was on board a ship bound to Java when the order was issued; he therefore got out without hearing
of it, but I understand it will be sent thither after him.  Jehovah reigneth!

"Since Brother Johns's departure I have tried to ascertain the cause of the severity in Government.
I had a long conversation with H. T. Colebrooke, Esq., who has been out of Council but a few
months, upon the matter.  I cannot learn that Government has any specific dislike to us, but
find that ever since the year 1807 the orders of the Court of Directors to send home all Europeans
not in the service of Her Majesty or the Company, and who come out without leave of the Directors,
have been so peremptory and express that Government cannot now overlook any circumstance which
brings such persons to notice.  Notwithstanding the general way in which the Court of Directors
have worded their orders, I cannot help putting several circumstances together, which make
me fear that our Mission was the cause of the enforcement of that general law which forbids
Europeans to remain in India without the leave of the Court of Directors.

"Whether Twining's pamphlet excited the alarm, or was only an echo of the minds of a number
of men hostile to religion, I cannot say, but if I recollect dates aright the orders of the
Court of Directors came as soon as possible after that pamphlet was published; and as it would
have been too barefaced to have given a specific order to send home missionaries, they founded
their orders on an unjust and wicked clause in the charter, and so enforced it that it should
effectually operate on missionaries.

"I hope the friends of religion will persevere in the use of all peaceful and lawful means
to prevail on the legislature to expunge that clause, or so to modify it that ministers of
the Gospel may have leave to preach, form and visit churches, and perform the various duties
of their office without molestation, and that they may have a right to settle in and travel
over any part of India for that purpose.  Nothing can be more just than this wish, and nothing
would be more politic than for it to be granted; for every one converted from among the heathen
is from that time a staunch friend of the English Government.  Our necks have, however, been
more or less under the yoke ever since that year, and preaching the Gospel stands in much the
same political light as committing an act of felony.  Witness what has been done to Mr. Thompson,
the five American brethren, and our three brethren.  Mr. Thomason, the clergyman, has likewise
hard work to stand his ground.

"I trust, however, it is too late to eradicate the Gospel from Bengal. The number of those
born in the country who preach the Word is now very considerable.  Fifteen of this description
preach constantly, and seven or eight more occasionally exhort their countrymen, besides our
European brethren.  The Gospel is stationed at eighteen or twenty stations belonging to our
Mission alone, and at several of them there are churches.  The Bible is either translated or
under translation into twenty-four of the languages of the East, eighteen of which we are employed
about, besides printing most of the others.  Thirteen out of these eighteen are now in the
press, including a third edition of the Bengali New Testament. Indeed, so great is the demand
for Bibles that though we have eight presses constantly at work I fear we shall not have a
Bengali New Testament to sell or give away for the next twelve months, the old edition being
entirely out of print.  We shall be in almost the same predicament with the Hindostani.  We
are going to set up two more presses, which we can get made in Calcutta, and are going to send
another to Rangoon.  In short, though the publishing of the Word of God is a political crime,
there never was a time when it was so successful. 'Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit,
saith the Lord.'

"Through divine mercy we are all well, and live in peace and love. A small cloud which threatened
at the time Brother Johns left us has mercifully blown over, and we are now in the utmost harmony.
I will, if possible, write to my nephew Eustace by these ships, but I am so pressed for time
that I can never promise to write a letter. The Lord has so blessed us that we are now printing
in more languages than we could do before the fire took place.

"Give my love to Eustace, also to all who recollect or think of me. I am now near fifty-two
years of age; yet through mercy I am well and am enabled to keep close to work twelve or fourteen
hours a day. I hope to see the Bible printed in most of the languages in which it is begun.--I
am, very affectionately yours, WM. CAREY."

Carey had previously written thus to Fuller:--"The fault lies in the clause which gives the
Company power thus to send home interlopers, and is just as reasonable as one which should
forbid all the people in England--a select few excepted--to look at the moon.  I hope this
clause will be modified or expunged in the new charter.  The prohibition is wrong, and nothing
that is morally wrong can be politically right."

It was left to the charter of 1853 fully to liberalise the Company, but each step was taken
too late to save it from the nemesis of 1857 and extinction in 1858. "Let no man think," Wilberforce
had said to the House of Commons in 1813, "that the petitions which have loaded our table have
been produced by a burst of momentary enthusiasm. While the sun and moon continue to shine
in the firmament so long will this object be pursued with unabated ardour until the great work
be accomplished."

The opposition of Anglo-Indian officials and lawyers, which vainly used no better weapons than
such as Mr. Prendergast and his "tub" fabrication, had been anticipated and encouraged by the
Edinburgh Review.  That periodical was at the height of its influence in 1808, the year before
John Murray's Quarterly was first published.  The Rev. Sydney Smith, as the literary and professional
representative of what he delighted to call "the cause of rational religion," was the foe of
every form of earnest Christianity, which he joined the mob in stigmatising as "Methodism."
He was not unacquainted with Indian politics, for his equally clever brother, known as Bobus
Smith, was long Advocate-General in Calcutta, and left a very considerable fortune made there
to enrich the last six years of the Canon's life.  Casting about for a subject on which to
exercise at once his animosity and his fun, he found it in the Periodical Accounts, wherein
Fuller had undoubtedly too often published letters and passages of journals written only for
the eye of the private friend.  Carey frequently remonstrated against the publicity given to
some of his communications, and the fear of this checked his correspondence.  In truth, the
new-born enthusiasm was such that, at first, the Committee kept nothing back.  It was easy
for a litterateur like Sydney Smith in those days to extract passages and to give them such
headings as "Brother Carey's Piety at Sea," "Hatred of the Natives to the Gospel."  Smith produced
an article which, as republished in his collected essays, has a historical value as a test
of the bitterness of the hate which the missionary enterprise had to meet in secular literature
till the death of Livingstone, Wilson, and Duff opened the eyes of journalism to the facts.
In itself it must be read in the light of its author's own criticism of his articles, thus
expressed in a letter to Francis Jeffrey, and of the regret that he had written it which, Jeffrey
told Dr. Marshman, he lived to utter:--"Never mind; let them" (his articles) "go away with
their absurdity unadulterated and pure.  If I please, the object for which I write is attained;
if I do not, the laughter which follows my error is the only thing which can make me cautious
and tremble."  But for that picture by himself we should have pronounced Carlyle's drawing
of him to be almost as malicious as his own of the Serampore missionaries--"A mass of fat and
muscularity, with massive Roman nose, piercing hazel eyes, shrewdness and fun--not humour or
even wit--seemingly without soul altogether."

The attack called forth a reply by Mr. Styles so severe that Sydney Smith wrote a rejoinder
which began by claiming credit for "rooting out a nest of consecrated cobblers."  Sir James
Mackintosh, then in Bombay, wrote of a similar assault by Mr. Thomas Twining on the Bible Societies,
that it "must excite general indignation.  The only measure which he could consistently propose
would be the infliction of capital punishment on the crime of preaching or embracing Christianity
in India, for almost every inferior degree of persecution is already practised by European
or native anti-christians.  But it fell to Southey, in the very first number of the Quarterly
Review, in April 1809, to deal with the Rev. Sydney Smith, and to defend Carey and the Brotherhood
as both deserved. The layman's defence was the more effective for its immediate purpose that
he started from the same prejudice as that of the reverend Whig rationalist--"the Wesleyans,
the Orthodox dissenters of every description, and the Evangelical churchmen may all be comprehended
under the generic name of Methodists.  The religion which they preach is not the religion of
our fathers, and what they have altered they have made worse."  But Southey had himself faith
as well as a literary canon higher than that of his opponent who wrote only to "please" his
patrons.  He saw in these Methodists alone that which he appreciated as the essence of true
faith--"that spirit of enthusiasm by which Europe was converted to Christianity they have in
some measure revived, and they have removed from Protestantism a part of its reproach."  He
proceeded to tell how "this Mission, which is represented by its enemies as so dangerous to
the British Empire in India, and thereby, according to a logic learnt from Buonaparte, to England
also, originated in a man by name William Carey, who till the twenty-fourth year of his age
was a working shoemaker.  Sectarianism has this main advantage over the Established Church,
that its men of ability certainly find their station, and none of its talents are neglected
or lost.  Carey was a studious and pious man, his faith wrong, his feelings right.  He made
himself competently versed in Latin, Greek, and Hebrew.  He is now probably a far more learned
orientalist than any European has ever been before him, and has been appointed Professor of
Sanskrit and Bengali at the College of Fort William."  Then follow a history of the Mission
written in a style worthy of the author of the Life of Nelson, and these statements of the
political and the purely missionary questions, which read now almost as predictions:--

"The first step towards winning the natives to our religion is to show them that we have one.
This will hardly be done without a visible church.  There would be no difficulty in filling
up the establishment, however ample; but would the archbishop, bishops, deans, and chapters
of Mr. Buchanan's plan do the work of missionaries?  Could the Church of England supply missionaries?--where
are they to be found among them? In what school for the promulgation of sound and orthodox
learning are they trained up?  There is ability and there is learning in the Church of England,
but its age of fermentation has long been over; and that zeal which for this work is the most
needful is, we fear, possessed only by the Methodists...

"Carey and his son have been in Bengal fourteen years, the other brethren only nine; they had
all a difficult language to acquire before they could speak to a native, and to preach and
argue in it required a thorough and familiar knowledge.  Under these circumstances the wonder
is, not that they have done so little, but that they have done so much; for it will be found
that, even without this difficulty to retard them, no religious opinions have spread more rapidly
in the same time, unless there was some remarkable folly or extravagance to recommend them,
or some powerful worldly inducement.  Their progress will be continually accelerating; the
difficulty is at first, as in introducing vaccination into a distant land; when the matter
has once taken one subject supplies infection for all around him, and the disease takes root
in the country.  The husband converts the wife, the son converts the parent, the friend his
friend, and every fresh proselyte becomes a missionary in his own neighbourhood.  Thus their
sphere of influence and of action widens, and the eventual issue of a struggle between truth
and falsehood is not to be doubted by those who believe in the former. Other missionaries from
other societies have now entered India, and will soon become efficient labourers in their station.
From Government all that is asked is toleration for themselves and protection for their converts.
The plan which they have laid for their own proceedings is perfectly prudent and unexceptionable,
and there is as little fear of their provoking martyrdom as there would be of their shrinking
from it, if the cause of God and man require the sacrifice. But the converts ought to be protected
from violence, and all cramming with cow-dung prohibited on pain of retaliation with beef-tea.

"Nothing can be more unfair than the manner in which the scoffers and alarmists have represented
the missionaries.  We, who have thus vindicated them, are neither blind to what is erroneous
in their doctrine or ludicrous in their phraseology; but the anti-missionaries cull out from
their journals and letters all that is ridiculous sectarian, and trifling; call them fools,
madmen, tinkers, Calvinists, and schismatics; and keep out of sight their love of man, and
their zeal for God, their self-devotement, their indefatigable industry, and their unequalled
learning.  These low-born and low-bred mechanics have translated the whole Bible into Bengali,
and have by this time printed it.  They are printing the New Testament in the Sanskrit, the
Orissa, Mahratta, Hindostan, and Guzarat, and translating it into Persic, Telinga, Karnata,
Chinese, the language of the Sieks and of the Burmans, and in four of these languages they
are going on with the Bible.  Extraordinary as this is, it will appear more so when it is remembered
that of these men one was originally a shoemaker, another a printer at Hull, and a third the
master of a charity-school at Bristol. Only fourteen years have elapsed since Thomas and Carey
set foot in India, and in that time have these missionaries acquired this gift of tongues,
in fourteen years these low-born, low-bred mechanics have done more towards spreading the knowledge
of the Scriptures among the heathen than has been accomplished, or even attempted, by all the
princes and potentates of the world--and all the universities and establishments into the bargain.

"Do not think to supersede the Baptist missionaries till you can provide from your own church
such men as these, and, it may be added, such women also as their wives."

Soon after the Charter victory had been gained "that fierce and fiery Calvinist," whose dictum
Southey adopted, that the question in dispute is not whether the natives shall enjoy toleration,
but whether that toleration shall be extended to the teachers of Christianity, Andrew Fuller,
entered into rest on the 7th May 1815, at the age of sixty-two. Sutcliff of Olney had been
the first of the three to be taken away[25] a year before, at the same age.  The scholarly
Dr. Ryland of Bristol was left alone, and the home management of the Mission passed into the
hands of another generation.  Up to Fuller's death that management had been almost ideally
perfect.  In 1812 the Committee had been increased by the addition of nineteen members, to
represent the growing interest of the churches in Serampore, and to meet the demand of the
"respectable" class who had held aloof at the first, who were eager that the headquarters of
so renowned an enterprise should be removed to London.  But Fuller prevailed to keep the Society
a little longer at Kettering, although he failed to secure as his assistant and successor the
one man whose ability, experience, and prudence would have been equal to his own, and have
prevented the troubles that followed--Christopher Anderson.  As Fuller lay dying, he dictated
a letter to Ryland wherein he thus referred to the evangelical doctrine of grace which he had
been the one English theologian of his day to defend from the hyper-calvinists, and to use
as the foundation of the modern missionary enterprise:--"I have preached and written much against
the abuse of the doctrine of grace, but that doctrine is all my salvation and all my desire.
I have no other hope than from salvation by mere sovereign, efficacious grace through the atonement
of my Lord and Saviour: with this hope I can go into eternity with composure.  We have some
who have been giving it out of late that if Sutcliff and some others had preached more of Christ
and less of Jonathan Edwards they would have been more useful.  If those who talk thus had
preached Christ half as much as Jonathan Edwards did, and were half as useful as he was, their
usefulness would be double what it is.  It is very singular that the Mission to the East originated
with one of these principles, and without pretending to be a prophet, I may say if it ever
falls into the hands of men who talk in this strain (of hyper-calvinism) it will soon come
to nothing."

Andrew Fuller was not only the first of Foreign Mission Secretaries; he was a model for all.
To him his work was spiritual life, and hence, though the most active preacher and writer of
his day, he was like Carey in this, that his working day was twice as long as that of most
men, and he could spend half of his time in the frequent journeys all over the kingdom to raise
funds, in repeated campaigns in London to secure toleration, and in abundant letters to the
missionaries.  His relation to the Committee, up to the last, was equally exemplary.  In the
very earliest missionary organisation in England it is due to him that the line was clearly
drawn between the deliberative and judicial function which is that of the members, and the
executive which is that of the secretary.  Wisdom and efficiency, clearness of perception and
promptitude of action, were thus combined.  Fuller's, too, was the special merit of realising
that, while a missionary committee or church are fellow-workers only with the men and women
abroad, the Serampore Brotherhood was a self-supporting, and to that extent a self-governing
body in a sense true of no foreign mission ever since.  The two triumvirates, moreover, consisted
of giants--Carey, Marshman, and Ward abroad; Fuller, Sutcliff, and Ryland at home.  To Carey
personally the death of Fuller was more than to any other.  For almost the quarter of a century
he had kept his vow that he would hold the rope.  When Pearce died all too soon there was none
whom Carey loved like Fuller, while Fuller's devotion to Carey was all the greater that it
was tempered by a wise jealousy for his perfectness.  So early as 1797, Fuller wrote thus to
the troublesome Fountain:--"It affords us good hope of your being a useful missionary that
you seem to love and revere the counsels of Brother Carey.  A humble, peaceful, circumspect,
disinterested, faithful, peaceable, and zealous conduct like his will render you a blessing
to society.  Brother Carey is greatly respected and beloved by all denominations here.  I will
tell you what I have foreborne to tell him lest it should hurt his modesty.  Good old Mr. Newton
says: 'Mr. Carey has favoured me with a letter, which, indeed, I accept as a favour, and I
mean to thank him for it.  I trust my heart as cordially unites with him as though I were a
brother Baptist myself.  I look to such a man with reverence.  He is more to me than bishop
or archbishop; he is an apostle.  May the Lord make all who undertake missions like-minded
with Brother Carey!'"  As the home administrator, no less than as the theological controversialist,
Andrew Fuller stands only second to William Carey, the founder of Modern English Missions.

Fuller's last letter to Carey forms the best introduction to the little which it is here necessary
to record of the action of the Baptist Missionary Society when under the secretaryship of the
Rev. John Dyer. Mr. John Marshman, C.S.I., has written the detailed history of that controversy
not only with filial duty, but with a forgiving charity which excites our admiration for one
who suffered more from it than all his predecessors in the Brotherhood, of which he was the
last representative.  The Society has long since ceased to approve of that period.  Its opinion
has become that of Mr. Marshman, to which a careful perusal of all the documents both in Serampore
and England has led us--"Had it been possible to create a dozen establishments like that of
Serampore, each raising and managing its own funds, and connected with the Society as the centre
of unity in a common cause, it ought to have been a subject of congratulation and not of regret."
The whole policy of every missionary church and society is now and has long been directed to
creating self-supporting and self-propagating missions, like Serampore, that the regions beyond
may be evangelised--whether these be colleges of catechumens and inquirers, like those of Duff
and Wilson, Hislop and Dr. Miller in India, and of Govan and Dr. Stewart in Lovedale, Kafraria;
or the indigenous churches of the West Indies, West Africa, the Pacific Ocean, and Burma. 
To us the long and bitter dispute is now of value only in so far as it brings out in Christ-like
relief the personality of William Carey.

At the close of 1814 Dr. Carey had asked Fuller to pay £50 a year to his father, then in his
eightieth year, and £20 to his (step) mother if she survived the old man.  Protesting that
an engraving of his portrait had been published in violation of the agreement which he had
made with the artist, he agreed to the wish of each of his relatives for a copy. To these requests
Fuller had replied:--"You should not insist on these things being charged to you, nor yet your
father's £50, nor the books, nor anything necessary to make you comfortable, unless it be to
be paid out of what you would otherwise give to the mission.  To insist on their being paid
out of your private property seems to be dictated by resentment.  It is thus we express our
indignation when we have an avaricious man to deal with."

The first act of the Committee, after Fuller's funeral, led Dr. Ryland to express to Carey
his unbounded fears for the future. There were two difficulties.  The new men raised the first
question, in what sense the Serampore property belonged to the Society?  They then proceeded
to show how they would answer it, by appointing the son of Samuel Pearce to Serampore as Mr.
Ward's assistant.  On both sides of their independence, as trustees of the property which they
had created and gifted to the Society on this condition, and as a self-supporting, self-elective
brotherhood, it became necessary, for the unbroken peace of the mission and the success of
their work, that they should vindicate their moral and legal position.  The correspondence
fell chiefly to Dr. Marshman. Ward and he successively visited England, to which the controversy
was transferred, with occasional references to Dr. Carey in Serampore.  All Scotland, led by
Christopher Anderson, Chalmers, and the Haldanes--all England, except the Dyer faction and
Robert Hall for a time, among the Baptists, and nearly all America, held with the Serampore
men; but their ever-extending operations were checked by the uncertainty, and their hearts
were nearly broken.  The junior missionaries in India formed a separate union and congregation
by themselves in Calcutta, paid by the Society, though professing to carry out the organisation
of the Serampore Brotherhood in other respects.  The Committee's controversy lasted sixteen
years, and was closed in 1830, after Ward's death, by Carey and Marshman drawing up a new trust-deed,
in which, having vindicated their position, the old men made over properties which had cost
them £7800 to eleven trustees in England, stipulating only that they should occupy them rent
free till death, and that their colleagues--who were John Marshman and John Mack, of Edinburgh
University--might continue in them for three years thereafter, paying rent to the Society.
Such self-sacrifice would be pronounced heroic, but it was only the outcome of a life of self-devotion,
marked by the spirit of Him who spake the Sermon on the Mount, and said to the first missionaries
He sent forth:--"Be wise as serpents, harmless as doves."  The story is completed by the fact
that John Marshman, on his father's death, again paid the price of as much of the property
as the Hoogli had not swallowed up when the Committee were about to put it in the market.

Such was Dr. Carey's position in the Christian world that the Dyer party considered it important
for their interest to separate him from his colleagues, and if not to claim his influence for
their side, at least to neutralise it.  By trying to hold up Dr. Marshman to odium, they roused
the righteous indignation of Carey, while outraging his sense of justice by their blows at
the independence of the Brotherhood. Dr. Marshman, when in England, met this course by frankly
printing the whole private correspondence of Carey on the subject of the property, or thirty-two
letters ranging from the year 1815 to 1828.  One of the earliest of these is to Mr. Dyer, who
had so far forgotten himself as to ask Dr. Carey to write home, alone, his opinion of his "elder
brethren," and particularly of Dr. Marshman.  The answer, covering eleven octavo pages of small
type, is a model for all controversialists, and especially for any whom duty compels to rebuke
the minister who has failed to learn the charity which envieth not.  We reproduce the principal
passages, and the later letters to Christopher Anderson and his son Jabez, revealing the nobleness
of Carey and the inner life of the Brotherhood:--

"SERAMPORE, 15th July 1819.

"MY DEAR BROTHER--I am sorry you addressed your letter of January the 9th to me alone, because
it places me in a most awkward situation, as it respects my elder brethren, with whom I have
acted in concert for the last nineteen years, with as great a share of satisfaction and pleasure
as could reasonably be expected from a connection with imperfect creatures, and whom I am thereby
called to condemn contrary to my convictions, or to justify at the expense of their accusers.
It also places me in a disagreeable situation as it respects my younger brethren, whom I highly
respect as Christians; but whose whole conduct, as it respects the late unhappy differences,
has been such as makes it impossible for me to do otherwise than condemn it...

"You ask, 'Is there no ground for the charges of profusion, etc., preferred against Brother
Marshman?'  Brother Marshman has always been ardently engaged in promoting the cause of God
in India, and, being of a very active mind, has generally been chosen by us to draw up our
Reports, to write many of our public letters, to draw up plans for promoting the objects of
the mission, founding and managing schools, raising subscriptions, and other things of a like
nature; so that he has taken a more active part than Brother Ward or myself in these public
acts of the mission.  These things placed him in the foreground, and it has been no uncommon
thing for him to bear the blame of those acts which equally belong to Brother Ward and myself,
merely because he was the instrument employed in performing them.

"The charge of profusion brought against Dr. Marshman is more extensive than you have stated
in your letter.  He is charged with having his house superbly furnished, with keeping several
vehicles for the use of his family, and with labouring to aggrandise and bring them into public
notice to a culpable extent.  The whole business of furniture, internal economy, etc., of the
Serampore station, must exclusively belong to ourselves, and I confess I think the question
about it an unlovely one. Some person, we know not whom, told some one, we know not whom, 'that
he had been often at Lord Hastings's table, but that Brother Marshman's table far exceeded
his.'  I have also often been at Lord Hastings's table (I mean his private table), and I do
therefore most positively deny the truth of the assertion; though I confess there is much domestic
plainness at the table of the Governor-General of India (though nothing of meanness; on the
contrary, everything is marked with a dignified simplicity).  I suspect the informant never
was at Lord Hastings's table, or he could have not been guilty of such misrepresentation. 
Lord Hastings's table costs more in one day than Brother Marshman's in ten.

"The following statement may explain the whole business of Brother Marshman's furniture, etc.,
which you have all been so puzzled to account for, and have certainly accounted for in a way
that is not the true one.  We have, you know, a very large school, perhaps the largest in India.
In this school are children of persons of the first rank in the country.  The parents or guardians
of these children frequently call at the Mission-house, and common propriety requires that
they should be respectfully received, and invited to take a breakfast or dinner, and sometimes
to continue there a day or two.  It is natural that persons who visit the Mission-house upon
business superintended by Brother Marshman should be entertained at his house rather than elsewhere.
Till within the last four or five years we had no particular arrangement for the accommodation
of visitors who came to see us; but as those who visited us on business were entertained at
Brother Marshman's, it appeared to be the most eligible method to provide for the entertainment
of other visitors there also; but at that time Brother Marshman had not a decent table for
persons of the above description to sit down to.  We, therefore, voted him a sum to enable
him to provide such articles as were necessary to entertain them with decency; and I am not
aware that he has been profuse, or that he has provided anything not called for by the rules
of propriety.  I have no doubt but Brother Ward can enumerate and describe all these articles
of furniture.  It is, however, evident that you must be very imperfect judges of their necessity,
unless you could at the same time form a just estimate of the circumstances in which we stand.
It ought also to be considered that all these articles are public property, and always convertible
into their full value in cash.  I hope, however, that things are not yet come to that pass,
that a man who, with his wife, has for nineteen or twenty years laboured night and day for
the mission, who by their labour disinterestedly contribute between 2000 and 3000 rupees monthly
to it, and who have made sacrifices which, if others have not seen, Brother Ward and I have,--sacrifices
which ought to put to the blush all his accusers, who, notwithstanding their cries against
him, have not only supported themselves, but also have set themselves up in a lucrative business
at the Society's expense; and who, even to this day, though they have two prosperous schools,
and a profitable printing-office, continue to receive their monthly allowance, amounting (including
Miss Chaffin's) to 700 rupees a month from the Society; I feel indignant at their outcry on
the subject of expense, and I say, merely as a contrast to their conduct, So did not Brother
Marshman.  Surely things are not come to that pass, that he or any other brother must give
an account to the Society of every plate he uses, and every loaf he cuts.

"Till a very few years ago we had no vehicle except a single horse chaise for me to go backwards
and forwards to Calcutta.  That was necessarily kept on the opposite side of the river; and
if the strength of the horse would have borne it, could not have been used for the purposes
of health.  Sister Marshman was seized with a disease of the liver, a disease which proves
fatal in three cases out of four.  Sister Ward was ill of the same disorder, and both of them
underwent a long course of mercurial treatment, as is usual in that disease.  Exercise was
considered by the physicians as of the first importance, and we certainly thought no expense
too great to save the valuable lives of our sisters.  A single horse chaise, and an open palanquin,
called a Tonjon, were procured.  I never ride out for health; but usually spend an hour or
two, morning and evening, in the garden.  Sister Ward was necessitated to visit England for
hers.  Brother Ward had a saddle horse presented to him by a friend. My wife has a small carriage
drawn by a man.  These vehicles were therefore almost exclusively used by Brother Marshman's
family. When our brethren arrived from England they did not fail to put this equipage into
the account against Brother Marshman.  They now keep three single horse chaises, besides palanquins;
but we do not think they keep more than are necessary.

"Brother Marshman retains for the school a French master, a music master, and a drawing master.
The expenses of these are amply repaid by the school, but Brother Marshman's children, and
all those belonging to the family, have the advantage of their instructions. Brother Marshman's
children are, however, the most numerous, and envy has not failed to charge him with having
retained them all for the sake of his own children.  Surely a man's caring for his family's
health and his children's education is, if a crime, a venial one, and ought not to be held
up to blacken his reputation. Brother Marshman is no more perfect than other men, partakers
like him of the grace of God. His natural bias and habits are his own, and differ as much from
those of other men as theirs differ from one another.  I do not deny that he has an inclination
to display his children to advantage.  This, however, is a foible which most fond parents will
be inclined to pardon.  I wish I had half his piety, energy of mind, and zeal for the cause
of God. These excellencies, in my opinion, so far overbalance all his defects that I am constrained
to consider him a Christian far above the common run.  I must now close this defence of Brother
Marshman by repeating that all matters of furniture, convenience, etc., are things belonging
to the economy of the station at Serampore, and that no one beside ourselves has the smallest
right to interfere therewith.  The Calcutta brethren are now acting on the same principle,
and would certainly repel with indignation any attempt made by us to regulate their affairs.

"I have said that 'I never ride out for the sake of health'; and it may therefore be inquired,
'Why are vehicles, etc., for the purpose of health more necessary for the other members of
the family than for you?'  I reply that my health is in general good, and probably much benefited
by a journey to and from Calcutta two or three times a week. I have also a great fondness for
natural science, particularly botany and horticulture.  These, therefore, furnish not only
exercise, but amusement for me.  These amusements of mine are not, however, enjoyed without
expense, any more than those of my brethren, and were it not convenient for Brother Marshman's
accusers to make a stepping-stone of me, I have no doubt but my collection of plants, aviary,
and museum, would be equally impeached as articles of luxury and lawless expenses; though,
except the garden, the whole of these expenses are borne by myself.

"John Marshman is admitted a member of the union, but he had for some time previously thereto
been a member of the church.  I perceive plainly that all your objections to him have been
excited by the statements of the Calcutta brethren, which you certainly ought to receive with
much caution in all things which regard Bother Marshman and his family.  You observe that the
younger brethren especially look up to me with respect and affection.  It may be so; but I
confess I have frequently thought that, had it been so, they would have consulted me, or at
least have mentioned to me the grounds of their dissatisfaction before they proceeded to the
extremity of dividing the mission.  When I engaged in the mission, it was a determination that,
whatever I suffered, a breach therein should never originate with me. To this resolution I
have hitherto obstinately adhered.  I think everything should be borne, every sacrifice made,
and every method of accommodation or reconciliation tried, before a schism is suffered to take
place...

"I disapprove as much of the conduct of our Calcutta brethren as it is possible for me to disapprove
of any human actions.  The evil they have done is, I fear, irreparable; and certainly the whole
might have been prevented by a little frank conversation with either of us; and a hundredth
part of that self-denial which I found it necessary to exercise for the first few years of
the mission, would have prevented this awful rupture.  I trust you will excuse my warmth of
feeling upon this subject, when you consider that by this rupture that cause is weakened and
disgraced, in the establishment and promotion of which I have spent the best part of my life.
A church is attempted to be torn in pieces, for which neither I nor my brethren ever thought
we could do enough.  We laboured to raise it: we expended much money to accomplish that object;
and in a good measure saw the object of our desire accomplished.  But now we are traduced,
and the church rent by the very men who came to be our helpers.  As to Brother Marshman, seriously,
what do they want? Would they attempt to deny his possessing the grace of God?  He was known
to and esteemed by Brother Ryland as a Christian before he left England.  I have lived with
him ever since his arrival in India, and can witness to his piety and holy conduct.  Would
they exclude him from the mission?  Judge yourself whether it is comely that a man, who has
laboriously and disinterestedly served the mission so many years--who has by his diligence
and hard labour raised the most respectable school in India, as well as given a tone to all
the others--who has unvaryingly consecrated the whole of that income, as well as his other
labours, to the cause of God in India,--should be arraigned and condemned without a hearing
by a few young men just arrived, and one of whom had not been a month in the country before
he joined the senseless outcry?  Or would they have his blood?  Judge, my dear brother, yourself,
for I am ashamed to say more on this subject.

"I need not say that circumstances must in a great measure determine where missionaries should
settle.  The chief town of each of these countries would be preferable, if other circumstances
permit; but sometimes Government would not allow this, and sometimes other things may close
the door.  Missionaries however must knock loud and push hard at the door, and if there be
the smallest opening, must force themselves in; and, once entered, put their lives in their
hands and exert themselves to the utmost in dependence upon divine support, if they ever hope
to do much towards evangelising the heathen world.  My situation in the college, and Brother
Marshman's as superintending the first academy in India, which, I likewise observe, has been
established and brought to its present flourishing state wholly by his care and application,
have made our present situation widely different from what it was when first engaged in the
mission.  As a missionary I could go in a straw hat and dine with the judge of the district,
and often did so; but as a Professor in the College I cannot do so.  Brother Marshman is placed
in the same predicament.  These circumstances impose upon us a necessity of making a different
appearance to what we formerly did as simple missionaries; but they furnish us with opportunities
of speaking to gentlemen of the first power and influence in government, upon matters of the
highest importance to the great work in which we are engaged; and, as a proof that our opportunities
of this nature have not been in vain, I need only say that, in a conversation which I had some
time ago with one of the secretaries to Government, upon the present favourable bias of government
and the public in general to favour all plans for doing good, he told me that he believed the
whole was owing to the prudent and temperate manner in which we had acted; and that if we had
acted with precipitancy and indiscretion, he had every reason to believe the general feeling
would have been as hostile to attempts to do good as it is now favourable to them.

"I would not wish you to entertain the idea that we and our brethren in Calcutta are resolved
upon interminable hatred.  On the contrary, I think that things are gone as far as we may expect
them to go; and I now expect that the fire of contention will gradually go out.  All the distressing
and disagreeable circumstances are, I trust, past; and I expect we shall be in a little time
on a more friendly footing.  Much of what has taken place originated in England. Mistakes and
false conclusions were followed by all the circumstances I have detailed.  I think the whole
virulence of opposition has now spent itself.  Our brethren have no control over us, nor we
over them.  And, if I am not mistaken, each side will soon acknowledge that it has gone too
far in some instances; and ultimate good will arise from the evil I so much deplore.

"Having now written to you my whole sentiments upon the business, and formerly to my very dear
Brother Ryland, allow me to declare my resolution not to write anything further upon the subject,
however much I may be pressed thereto.  The future prosperity of the mission does not depend
upon the clearing up of every little circumstance to the satisfaction of every captious inquirer,
but upon the restoration of mutual concord among us, which must be preceded by admitting that
we are all subject to mistake, and to be misled by passion, prejudice, and false judgment.
Let us therefore strive and pray that the things which make for peace and those by which we
may edify one another may abound among us more and more.  I am, my dear brother, very affectionately,
yours in our Lord Jesus Christ, W. CAREY."

"14th May 1828.

"MY DEAR BROTHER ANDERSON--Yours by the Louisa, of October last, came to hand a few days ago
with the copies of Brother Marshman's brief Memoir of the Serampore Mission.  I am glad it
is written in so temperate and Christian a spirit, and I doubt not but it will be ultimately
productive of good effects.  There certainly is a great contrast between the spirit in which
that piece is written and that in which observations upon it, both in the Baptist and Particular
Baptist Magazines, are written.  The unworthy attempts in those and other such like pieces
to separate Brother Marshman and me are truly contemptible. In plain English, they amount to
thus much--'The Serampore Missionaries, Carey, Marshman, and Ward, have acted a dishonest part,
alias are rogues.  But we do not include Dr. Carey in the charge of dishonesty; he is an easy
sort of a man, who will agree to anything for the sake of peace, or in other words, he is a
fool.  Mr. Ward, it is well known,' say they, 'was the tool of Dr. Marshman, but he is gone
from the present scene, and it is unlovely to say any evil of the dead.'  Now I certainly hold
those persons' exemption of me from the blame they attach to Brother Marshman in the greatest
possible contempt.  I may have subscribed my name thoughtlessly to papers, and it would be
wonderful if there had been no instance of this in so long a course of years.  The great esteem
I had for the Society for many years, undoubtedly on more occasions than one put me off my
guard, and I believe my brethren too; so that we have signed writings which, if we could have
foreseen the events of a few years, we should not have done. These, however, were all against
our own private interest, and I believe I have never been called an easy fool for signing of
them.  It has only been since we found it necessary to resist the claims of the Committee that
I have risen to this honour.

"It has also been hinted that I intend to separate from Brother Marshman.  I cannot tell upon
what such hints or reports are founded, but I assure you, in the most explicit manner, that
I intend to continue connected with him and Serampore as long as I live; unless I should be
separated from him by some unforeseen stroke of Providence. There may be modifications of our
union, arising from circumstances; but it is my wish that it should remain in all things essential
to the mission as long as I live.

"I rejoice to say that there is very little of that spirit of hostility which prevails in England
in India, and I trust what still remains will gradually decrease till scarcely the remembrance
of it will continue. Our stations, I mean those connected with Serampore, are of great importance,
and some of them in a flourishing state. We will do all we can to maintain them, and I hope
the friends to the cause of God in Britain will not suffer them to sink for want of that pecuniary
help which is necessary.  Indeed I hope we shall be assisted in attempting other stations beside
those already occupied; and many such stations present themselves to my mind which nothing
prevents being immediately occupied but want of men and money.  The college will also require
assistance, and I hope will not be without it; I anticipate the time when its salutary operation
in the cause of God in India will be felt and acknowledged by all.

"These observations respecting my own conduct you are at liberty to use as you please.  I hope
now to take my final leave of this unpleasant subject, and have just room to say that I am
very affectionately yours, W. CAREY."

Throughout the controversy thus forced upon him, we find Dr. Carey's references, in his unpublished
letters to the brethren in Calcutta, all in the strain of the following to his son Jabez:--

"15th August 1820.--This week we received letters from Mr. Marshman, who had safely arrived
at St. Helena.  I am sure it will give you pleasure to learn that our long-continued dispute
with the younger brethren in Calcutta is now settled.  We met together for that purpose about
three weeks ago, and after each side giving up some trifling ideas and expressions, came to
a reconciliation, which, I pray God, may be lasting.  Nothing I ever met with in my life--and
I have met with many distressing things--ever preyed so much upon my spirits as this difference
has.  I am sure that in all disputes very many wrong things must take place on both sides for
which both parties ought to be humbled before God and one another.

"I wish you could succeed in setting up a few more schools...Consider that and the spread of
the gospel as the great objects of your life, and try to promote them by all the wise and prudent
methods in your power.  Indeed we must always venture something for the sake of doing good.
The cause of our Lord Jesus Christ continues to prosper with us. I have several persons now
coming in who are inquirers; two or three of them, I hope, will be this evening received into
the Church.  Excuse my saying more as my room is full of people."

Eight years after, on the 17th April 1828, he thus censured Jabez in the matter of the Society's
action at home:--"From a letter of yours to Jonathan, in which you express a very indecent
pleasure at the opposition which Brother Marshman has received, not by the Society but by some
anonymous writer in a magazine, I perceive you are informed of the separation which has taken
place between them and us.  What in that anonymous piece you call a 'set-down' I call a 'falsehood.'
You ought to know that I was a party in all public acts and writings, and that I never intend
to withdraw from all the responsibility connected therewith.  I utterly despise all the creeping,
mean assertions of that party when they say they do not include me in their censures, nor do
I work for their praise. According to their and according to your rejoicing...I am either a
knave or a fool--a knave if I joined with Brother Marshman; but if, as those gentlemen say,
and as you seem to agree with them, I was only led as he pleased, and was a mere cat's-paw,
then of course I am a fool.  In either way your thoughts are not very high as it respects me.
I do not wonder that Jonathan should express himself unguardedly; his family connection with
Mr. Pearce sufficiently accounts for that.  We have long been attacked in this country--first
by Mr. Adam,[26] and afterwards by Dr. Bryce.[27] Bryce is now silenced by two or three pieces
by John Marshman in his own newspaper, the John Bull; and as to some of the tissues of falsehood
published in England, I shall certainly never reply to them, and I hope no one else will. 
That cause must be bad which needs such means to support it.  I believe God will bring forth
our righteousness as the noonday."

On the 12th July 1828 the father again writes to his son Jabez thus:--"Your apologies about
Brother Marshman are undoubtedly the best you can offer.  I should be sorry to harbour hostile
sentiments against any man on the earth upon grounds so slight.  Indeed, were all you say matter
of fact you ought to forgive it as God for Christ's sake forgives us.  We are required to lay
aside all envy and strife and animosities, to forgive each other mutually and to love one another
with a pure heart fervently. 'Thine own friend and thy father's friend forsake not.'"

CHAPTER XIV

CAREY AS AN EDUCATOR--THE FIRST CHRISTIAN COLLEGE IN THE EAST

1818-1830

A college the fourth and perfecting corner-stone of the mission--Carey on the importance of
English in 1800--Anticipates Duff's policy of undermining Brahmanism--New educational era begun
by the charter of 1813 and Lord Hastings--Plan of the Serampore College in 1818--Anticipates
the Anglo-Orientalism of the Punjab University--The building described by John Marshman--Bishop
Middleton follows--The Scottish and other colleges--Action of the Danish Government--The royal
charter--Visit of Maharaja Serfojee--Death of Ward, Charles Grant and Bentley--Bishop Heber
and his catholic letter--Dr. Carey's reply--Progress of the college--Cause of its foundation--The
college directly and essentially a missionary undertaking--Action of the Brotherhood from the
first vindicated--Carey appeals to posterity--The college and the systematic study of English--Carey
author of the Grant in Aid system--Economy in administering missions--The Serampore Mission
has eighteen stations and fifty missionaries of all kinds--Subsequent history of the Serampore
College to 1883.

The first act of Carey and Marshman when their Committee took up a position of hostility to
their self-denying independence, was to complete and perpetuate the mission by a college. 
As planned by Carey in 1793, the constitution had founded the enterprise on these three corner-stones--preaching
the Gospel in the mother tongue of the people; translating the Bible into all the languages
of Southern and Eastern Asia; teaching the young, both heathen and Christian, both boys and
girls, in vernacular schools.  But Carey had not been a year in Serampore when, having built
well on all three, he began to see that a fourth must be laid some day in the shape of a college.
He and his colleagues had founded and supervised, by the year 1818, no fewer than 126 native
schools, containing some 10,000 boys, of whom more than 7000 were in and around Serampore.
His work among the pundit class, both in Serampore and in the college of Fort William, and
the facilities in the mission-house for training natives, Eurasians, and the missionaries'
sons to be preachers, translators, and teachers, seemed to meet the immediate want.  But as
every year the mission in all its forms grew and the experience of its leaders developed, the
necessity of creating a college staff in a building adapted to the purpose became more urgent.
Only thus could the otherwise educated natives be reached, and the Brahmanical class especially
be permanently influenced.  Only thus could a theological institute be satisfactorily conducted
to feed the native Church.

On 10th October 1800 the missionaries had thus written home:--"There appears to be a favourable
change in the general temper of the people. Commerce has roused new thoughts and awakened new
energies; so that hundreds, if we could skilfully teach them gratis, would crowd to learn the
English language.  We hope this may be in our power some time, and may be a happy means of
diffusing the gospel. At present our hands are quite full."  A month after that Carey wrote
to Fuller:--"I have long thought whether it would not be desirable for us to set up a school
to teach the natives English.  I doubt not but a thousand scholars would come.  I do not say
this because I think it an object to teach them the English tongue; but, query, is not the
universal inclination of the Bengalees to learn English a favourable circumstance which may
be improved to valuable ends?  I only hesitate at the expense."  Thirty years after Duff reasoned
in the same way, after consulting Carey, and acted at once in Calcutta.

By 1816, when, on 25th June, Carey wrote a letter, for his colleagues and himself, to the Board
of the American Baptist General Convention, the great idea, destined slowly to revolutionise
not only India, but China, Japan, and the farther East, had taken this form:--

"We know not what your immediate expectations are relative to the Burman empire, but we hope
your views are not confined to the immediate conversion of the natives by the preaching of
the Word. Could a church of converted natives be obtained at Rangoon, it might exist for a
while, and be scattered, or perish for want of additions.  From all we have seen hitherto we
are ready to think that the dispensations of Providence point to labours that may operate,
indeed, more slowly on the population, but more effectually in the end: as knowledge, once
put into fermentation, will not only influence the part where it is first deposited, but leaven
the whole lump.  The slow progress of conversion in such a mode of teaching the natives may
not be so encouraging, and may require, in all, more faith and patience; but it appears to
have been the process of things, in the progress of the Reformation, during the reigns of Henry,
Edward, Elizabeth, James, and Charles.  And should the work of evangelising India be thus slow
and silently progressive, which, however, considering the age of the world, is not perhaps
very likely, still the grand result will amply recompense us, and you, for all our toils. 
We are sure to take the fortress, if we can but persuade ourselves to sit down long enough
before it. 'We shall reap if we faint not.'

"And then, very dear brethren, when it shall be said of the seat of our labours, the infamous
swinging-post is no longer erected; the widow burns no more on the funeral pile; the obscene
dances and songs are seen and heard no more; the gods are thrown to the moles and to the bats,
and Jesus is known as the God of the whole land; the poor Hindoo goes no more to the Ganges
to be washed from his filthiness, but to the fountain opened for sin and uncleanness; the temples
are forsaken; the crowds say, 'Let us go up to the house of the Lord, and He shall teach us
of His ways, and we will walk in His statutes;' the anxious Hindoos no more consume their property,
their strength, and their lives, in vain pilgrimages, but they come at once to Him who can
save to 'the uttermost'; the sick and the dying are no more dragged to the Ganges, but look
to the Lamb of God, and commit their souls into His faithful hands; the children, no more sacrificed
to idols, are become 'the seed of the Lord, that He may be glorified'; the public morals are
improved; the language of Canaan is learnt; benevolent societies are formed; civilisation and
salvation walk arm in arm together; the desert blossoms; the earth yields her increase; angels
and glorified spirits hover with joy over India, and carry ten thousand messages of love from
the Lamb in the midst of the throne; and redeemed souls from the different villages, towns,
and cities of this immense country, constantly add to the number, and swell the chorus of the
redeemed, 'Unto Him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in His own blood, unto HIM be
the glory;'--when this grand result of the labours of God's servants in India shall be realised,
shall we then think that we have laboured in vain, and spent our strength for nought?  Surely
not. Well, the decree is gone forth! 'My word shall prosper in the thing whereunto I sent it.'"

India was being prepared for the new missionary policy.  On what we may call its literary side
Carey had been long busy.  On its more strictly educational side, the charter of 1813 had conceded
what had been demanded in vain by a too feeble public opinion in the charter of 1793. A clause
was inserted at the last moment declaring that a sum of not less than a lakh of rupees (or
ten thousand pounds) a year was to be set apart from the surplus revenues, and applied to the
revival and improvement of literature and the encouragement of the learned natives of India,
and for the introduction and promotion of a knowledge of the sciences among the inhabitants
of the British territories there.  The clause was prompted by an Anglo-Indian of oriental tastes,
who hoped that the Brahman and his Veda might thus be made too strong for the Christian missionary
and the Bible as at last tolerated under the 13th resolution.  For this reason, and because
the money was to be paid only out of any surplus, the directors and their friends offered no
opposition.  For the quarter of a century the grant was given, and was applied in the spirit
of its proposer.  But the scandals of its application became such that it was made legally
by Bentinck and Macaulay, and practically by Duff, the fountain of a river of knowledge and
life which is flooding the East.

The first result of the liberalism of the charter of 1813 and the generous views of Lord Hastings
was the establishment in Calcutta by the Hindoos themselves, under the influence of English
secularists, of the Hindoo, now the Presidency College.  Carey and Marshman were not in Calcutta,
otherwise they must have realised even then what they left to Duff to act on fourteen years
after, the importance of English not only as an educating but as a Christianising instrument.
But though not so well adapted to the immediate need of the reformation which they had begun,
and though not applied to the very heart of Bengal in Calcutta, the prospectus of their "College
for the Instruction of Asiatic, Christian, and Other Youth in Eastern Literature and European
Science," which they published on the 15th July 1818, sketched a more perfect and complete
system than any since attempted, if we except John Wilson's almost unsupported effort in Bombay.
It embraced the classical or learned languages of the Hindoos and Mohammedans, Sanskrit and
Arabic; the English language and literature, to enable the senior students "to dive into the
deepest recesses of European science, and enrich their own language with its choicest treasures";
the preparation of manuals of science, philosophy, and history in the learned and vernacular
languages of the East; a normal department to train native teachers and professors; as the
crown of all, a theological institute to equip the Eurasian and native Christian students,
by a quite unsectarian course of study, in apologetics, exegetics, and the Bible languages,
to be missionaries to the Brahmanical classes. While the Government and the Scottish missionaries
have in the university and grant in aid systems since followed too exclusively the English
line, happily supplanting the extreme Orientalists, it is the glory of the Serampore Brotherhood
that they sought to apply both the Oriental and the European, the one as the form, the other
as the substance, so as to evangelise and civilise the people through their mother tongue.
They were the Vernacularists in the famous controversy between the Orientalists and the Anglicists
raised by Duff. In 1867 the present writer in vain attempted to induce the University of Calcutta
to follow them in this. It was left to Sir Charles Aitchison, when he wielded the power and
the influence of the Lieutenant-Governor, to do in 1882 what the Serampore College would have
accomplished had its founders been young instead of old men, by establishing the Punjab University.

Lord Hastings and even Sir John Malcolm took a personal interest in the Serampore College.
The latter, who had visited the missionaries since his timid evidence before the House of Lords
in 1813, wrote to them:--"I wish I could be certain that your successors in the serious task
you propose would have as much experience as you and your fellow-labourers at Serampore--that
they would walk, not run, in the same path--I would not then have to state one reserve."  Lord
Hastings in Council passed an order encouraging the establishment of a European Medical Professorship
in Serampore College, and engaged to assist in meeting the permanent expense of the chair when
established.  His Excellency "interrupted pressing avocations" to criticise both the architectural
plan of the building and the phraseology of the draft of the first report, and his suggestions
were followed.  Adopting one of the Grecian orders as most suitable to a tropical climate,
the Danish Governor's colleague, Major Wickedie, planned the noble Ionic building which was
then, and is still, the finest edifice of the kind in British India.

"The centre building, intended for the public rooms, was a hundred and thirty feet in length,
and a hundred and twenty in depth.  The hall on the ground floor, supported on arches, and
terminated at the south by a bow, was ninety-five feet in length, sixty-six in breadth, and
twenty in height.  It was originally intended for the library, but is now occupied by the classes.
The hall above, of the same dimensions and twenty-six feet in height, was supported by two
rows of Ionic columns; it was intended for the annual examinations. Of the twelve side-rooms
above and below, eight were of spacious dimensions, twenty-seven feet by thirty-five.  The
portico which fronted the river was composed of six columns, more than four feet in diameter
at the base.  The staircase-room was ninety feet in length, twenty-seven in width, and forty-seven
in height, with two staircases of cast-iron, of large size and elegant form, prepared at Birmingham.
The spacious grounds were surrounded with iron railing, and the front entrance was adorned
with a noble gate, likewise cast at Birmingham...

"The scale on which it was proposed to establish the college, and to which the size of the
building was necessarily accommodated, corresponded with the breadth of all the other enterprises
of the Serampore missionaries,--the mission, the translations, and the schools.  While Mr.
Ward was engaged in making collections for the support of the institution in England, he wrote
to his brethren, 'the buildings you must raise in India;' and they determined to respond to
the call, and, if possible, to augment their donation from £2500 to £8000, and to make a vigorous
effort to erect the buildings from their own funds.  Neither the ungenerous suspicion, nor
the charge of unfaithfulness, with which their character was assailed in England, was allowed
to slacken the prosecution of this plan.  It was while their reputation was under an eclipse
in England, and the benevolent hesitated to subscribe to the society till they were assured
that their donations would not be mixed up with the funds of the men at Serampore, that those
men were engaged in erecting a noble edifice for the promotion of religion and knowledge, at
their own cost, the expense of which eventually grew under their hands to the sum of £15,000.
To the charge of endeavouring to alienate from the society premises of the value of £3000,
their own gift, they replied by erecting a building at five times the cost, and vesting it
in eleven trustees,--seven besides themselves.  It was thus they vindicated the purity of their
motives in their differences with the society, and endeavoured to silence the voice of calumny.
They were the first who maintained that a college was an indispensable appendage to an Indian
mission."

The next to follow Carey in this was Bishop Middleton, who raised funds to erect a chaste Gothic
pile beside the Botanic Garden, since to him the time appeared "to have arrived when it is
desirable that some missionary endeavours, at least, should have some connection with the Church
establishment."  That college no longer exists, in spite of the saintly scholarship of such
Principals as Mill and Kay; the building is now utilised as a Government engineering college.
But in Calcutta the Duff College, with the General Assembly's Institution (now united as the
Scottish Churches College), the Cathedral Mission Divinity School, and the Bhowanipore Institution;
in Bombay the Wilson College, in Madras the Christian College, in Nagpoor the Hislop College,
in Agra St. John's College, in Lahore the Church Mission Divinity School, in Lucknow the Reid
College, and others, bear witness to the fruitfulness of the Alma Mater of Serampore.

The Serampore College began with thirty-seven students, of whom nineteen were native Christians
and the rest Hindoos.  When the building was occupied in 1821 Carey wrote to his son:--"I pray
that the blessing of God may attend it, and that it may be the means of preparing many for
an important situation in the Church of God...The King of Denmark has written letters signed
with his own hand to Brothers Ward, Marshman, and myself, and has sent each of us a gold medal
as a token of his approbation.  He has also made over the house in which Major Wickedie resides,
between Sarkies's house and ours, to us three in perpetuity for the college.  Thus Divine generosity
appears for us and supplies our expectations."  The missionaries had declined the Order of
the Dannebrog.  When, in 1826, Dr. Marshman visited Europe, one of his first duties was to
acknowledge this gift to Count Moltke, Danish Minister in London and ancestor of the great
strategist, and to ask for a royal charter. The Minister and Count Schulin, whose wife had
been a warm friend of Mrs. Carey, happened to be on board the steamer in which Dr. Marshman,
accompanied by Christopher Anderson, sailed to Copenhagen. Raske, the Orientalist, who had
visited Serampore, was a Professor in the University there.  The vellum charter was prepared
among them, empowering the College Council, consisting of the Governor of Serampore and the
Brotherhood, to confer degrees like those of the Universities of Copenhagen and Kiel, but not
carrying the rank in the State implied in Danish degrees unless with the sanction of the Crown.
The King, in the audience which he gave, informed Dr. Marshman that, having in 1801 promised
the mission protection, he had hitherto refused to transfer Serampore to the East India Company,
since that would prevent him from keeping his word.  When, in 1845, the Company purchased both
Tranquebar and Serampore, it could be no longer dangerous to the Christian Mission, but the
Treaty expressly provided that the College should retain all its powers, and its Christian
character, under the Danish charter, which it does.  It was thus the earliest degree-conferring
college in Asia, but it has never exercised the power.  Christian VIII., then the heir to the
throne, showed particular interest in the Bible translation work of Carey.  When, in 1884,
the Evangelical Alliance held its session in Copenhagen, and was received by Christian IX.,[28]
it did well, by special resolution, to express the gratitude of Protestant Christendom to Denmark
for such courageous and continued services to the first Christian mission from England to India.

How Dr. Carey valued the gift of the King is seen in this writing, on the lining of the case
of the gold medal, dated 6th November 1823:--

"It is my desire that this medal, and the letter of the King of Denmark, which accompanied
it, be given at my death to my dear son Jonathan, that he may keep it for my sake."

The letter of King Frederic VI. is as follows:--

"MONSIEUR LE DOCTEUR ET PROFESSEUR WILLIAM CAREY--

C'est avec beaucoup d'intérêt que nous avons appris le mérite qu'en qualité de membre dirigeant
de la Société de la Mission, vous avez acquis, ainsi que vos co-directeurs, et les effèts salutaires
que vos louables travaux ont produits et partout où votre influence a pu atteindre.  Particulierement
informés qu'en votre dite qualité vous avez contribué a effectuer bien des choses utiles, dont
l'établissement à Frédéricsnagore a à se louer, et voulant vous certifier que nous vous en
avons gré, nous avons chargé le chef du dit établissement,--notre Lieutenant-Colonel Kraefting,
de vous remettre cette lettre; et en même temps une medaille d'or, comme une marque de notre
bienveillance et de notre protection, que vous assurera toujours une conduite meritoire.

"Sur ce nous prions Dieu de vous avoir dans Sa sainte et digne garde.--Votre affectionné FREDERIC.

"Copenhague, ce 7 Juin 1820.

The new College formed an additional attraction to visitors to the mission.  One of these,
in 1821, was the Maharaja Serfojee, the prince of Tanjore, whom Schwartz had tended, but who
was on pilgrimage to Benares.  Hand in hand with Dr. Carey he walked through the missionary
workshop, noticed specially the pundits who were busy with translation to which Lord Hastings
had directed his attention, and dilated with affectionate enthusiasm on the deeds and the character
of the apostle of South India.  In 1823 cholera suddenly cut off Mr. Ward in the midst of his
labours.  The year after that Charles Grant died, leaving a legacy to the mission. Almost his
last act had been to write to Carey urging him to publish a reply to the attack of the Abbé
Dubois on all Christian missions.  Another friend was removed in Bentley, the scholar who put
Hindoo astronomy in its right place.  Bishop Heber began his too brief episcopate in 1824,
when the college, strengthened by the abilities of the Edinburgh professor, John Mack, was
accomplishing all that its founders had projected.  The Bishop of all good Christian men never
penned a finer production--not even his hymns--than this letter, called forth by a copy of
the Report on the College sent to him by Dr. Marshman:--

"I have seldom felt more painfully than while reading your appeal on the subject of Serampore
College, the unhappy divisions of those who are the servants of the same Great Master!  Would
to God, my honoured brethren, the time were arrived when not only in heart and hope, but visibly,
we shall be one fold, as well as under one shepherd!  In the meantime I have arrived, after
some serious considerations, at the conclusion that I shall serve our great cause most effectually
by doing all which I can for the rising institutions of those with whom my sentiments agree
in all things, rather than by forwarding the labours of those from whom, in some important
points, I am conscientiously constrained to differ.  After all, why do we differ?  Surely the
leading points which keep us asunder are capable of explanation or of softening, and I am expressing
myself in much sincerity of heart--(though, perhaps, according to the customs of the world,
I am taking too great a freedom with men my superiors both in age and in talent), that I should
think myself happy to be permitted to explain, to the best of my power, those objections which
keep you and your brethren divided from that form of church government which I believe to have
been instituted by the apostles, and that admission of infants to the Gospel Covenants which
seem to me to be founded on the expressions and practice of Christ himself.  If I were writing
thus to worldly men I know I should expose myself to the imputation of excessive vanity or
impertinent intrusion.  But of you and Dr. Carey I am far from judging as of worldly men, and
I therefore say that, if we are spared to have any future intercourse, it is my desire, if
you permit, to discuss with both of you, in the spirit of meekness and conciliation, the points
which now divide us, convinced that, if a reunion of our Churches could be effected, the harvest
of the heathen would ere long be reaped, and the work of the Lord would advance among them
with a celerity of which we have now no experience.

"I trust, at all events, you will take this hasty note as it is intended, and believe me, with
much sincerity, your friend and servant in Christ, REGINALD CALCUTTA.

"3rd June 1824."

This is how Carey reciprocated these sentiments, when writing to Dr. Ryland:--

"SERAMPORE, 6th July 1824.

"I rejoice to say that there is the utmost harmony between all the ministers of all denominations.
Bishop Heber is a man of liberal principles and catholic spirit.  Soon after his arrival in
the country he wrote me a very friendly letter, expressing his wish to maintain all the friendship
with us which our respective circumstances would allow. I was then confined, but Brother Marshman
called on him.  As soon as I could walk without crutches I did the same, and had much free
conversation with him.  Some time after this he wrote us a very friendly letter, saying that
it would highly gratify him to meet Brother Marshman and myself, and discuss in a friendly
manner all the points of difference between himself and us, adding that there was every reason
to expect much good from a calm and temperate discussion of these things, and that, if we could
at any rate come so near to each other as to act together, he thought it would have a greater
effect upon the spread of the gospel among the heathen than we could calculate upon.  He was
then just setting out on a visitation which will in all probability take a year.  We, however,
wrote him a reply accepting his proposal, and Brother Marshman expressed a wish that the discussion
might be carried on by letter, to which in his reply he partly consented.  I have such a disinclination
to writing, and so little leisure for it, that I wished the discussion to be viva voce; it
will, however, make little difference, and all I should have to say would be introduced into
the letter."

On the death of Mr. Ward and departure of Dr. Marshman for Great Britain on furlough, after
twenty-six years' active labours, his son, Mr. John Marshman, was formally taken into the Brotherhood.
He united with Dr. Carey in writing to the Committee two letters, dated 21st January 1826 and
15th November 1827, which show the progress of the college and the mission from the first as
one independent agency, and closed with Carey's appeal to the judgment of posterity.

"About seven years ago we felt convinced of the necessity of erecting a College for native
Christian youth, in order to consolidate our plans for the spread of gospel truth in India;
and, as we despaired of being able to raise from public subscriptions a sum equal to the expense
of the buildings, we determined to erect them from our own private funds. Up to the present
date they have cost us nearly £14,000, and the completion of them will require a further sum
of about £5000, which, if we are not enabled to advance from our own purse, the undertaking
must remain incomplete.  With this burden upon our private funds we find it impossible any
longer to meet, to the same extent as formerly, the demands of our out-stations.  The time
is now arrived when they must cease to be wholly dependent on the private donations of three
individuals, and must be placed on the strength of public contributions.  As two out of three
of the members of our body are now beyond the age of fifty-seven, it becomes our duty to place
them on a more permanent footing, as it regards their management, their support, and their
increase.  We have therefore associated with ourselves, in the superintendence of them, the
Rev. Messrs. Mack and Swan, the two present professors of the college, with the view of eventually
leaving them entirely in the hands of the body of professors, of whom the constitution of the
college provides that there shall be an unbroken succession.

"To secure an increase of missionaries in European habits we have formed a class of theological
students in the college, under the Divinity Professor.  It contains at present six promising
youths, of whose piety we have in some cases undoubted evidence, in others considerable ground
for hope.  The class will shortly be increased to twelve, but none will be continued in it
who do not manifest undeniable piety and devotedness to the cause of missions.  As we propose
to allow each student to remain on an average four years, we may calculate upon the acquisition
of two, and perhaps three, additional labourers annually, who will be eminently fitted for
active service in the cause of missions by their natural familiarity with the language and
their acquisitions at college.  This arrangement will, we trust, secure the speedy accomplishment
of the plan we have long cherished, that of placing one missionary in each province in Bengal,
and eventually, if means be afforded, in Hindostan.

"As the completion of the buildings requires no public contribution, the sole expense left
on the generosity of its friends is that of its existing establishment.  Our subscriptions
in India, with what we receive as the interest of money raised in Britain and America, average
£1000 annually; about £500 more from England would cover every charge, and secure the efficiency
of the institution.  Nor shall we require this aid beyond a limited period.

"Of the three objects connected with the College, the education of non-resident heathen students,
the education of resident Christian students, and the preparation of missionaries from those
born in the country, the first is not strictly a missionary object, the two latter are intimately
connected with the progress of the good cause. The preparation of missionaries in the country
was not so much recommended as enforced by the great expense which attends the despatch of
missionaries from Europe.  That the number of labourers in this country must be greatly augmented,
before the work of evangelising the heathen can be said to have effectively commenced, can
admit of no doubt.

"The education of the increasing body of Native Christians likewise, necessarily became a matter
of anxiety.  Nothing could be more distressing than the prospect of their being more backward
in mental pursuits than their heathen neighbours.  The planting of the gospel in India is not
likely to be accomplished by the exertions of a few missionaries in solitary and barren spots
in the country, without the aid of some well-digested plan which may consolidate the missionary
enterprise, and provide for the mental and religious cultivation of the converts.  If the body
of native Christians required an educational system, native ministers, who must gradually take
the spiritual conduct of that body, demanded pre-eminent attention.  They require a knowledge
of the ingenious system they will have to combat, of the scheme of Christian theology they
are to teach, and a familiarity with the lights of modern science.  We cannot discharge the
duty we owe as Christians to India, without some plan for combining in the converts of the
new religion, and more especially in its ministers, the highest moral refinement of the Christian
character, and the highest attainable progress in the pursuits of the mind.

"During the last ten years of entire independence the missionary cause has received from the
product of our labour, in the erection of the college buildings, in the support of stations
and schools, and in the printing of tracts, much more than £23,000.  The unceasing calumny
with which we have been assailed, for what has been called 'our declaration of independence'
(which, by the bye, Mr. Fuller approved of our issuing almost with his dying breath), it is
beneath us to notice, but it has fully convinced us of the propriety of the step.  This calumny
is so unreasonable that we confidently appeal from the decision of the present age to the judgment
of posterity."

Under Carey, as Professor of Divinity and Lecturer on Botany and Zoology, Mack and John Marshman,
with pundits and moulavies, the college grew in public favour, even during Dr. Marshman's absence,
while Mrs. Marshman continued to conduct the girls' school and superintend native female education
with a vigorous enthusiasm which advancing years did not abate and misrepresentation in England
only fed.  The difficulties in which Carey found himself had the happy result of forcing him
into the position of being the first to establish practically the principle of the Grant in
Aid system.  Had his Nonconformist successors followed him in this, with the same breadth of
view and clear distinction between the duty of aiding the secular education, while giving absolute
liberty to the spiritual, the splendid legacy which he left to India would have been both perpetuated
and extended.  As it is, it was left to his young colleague, John Marshman, and to Dr. Duff,
to induce Parliament, by the charter of 1853, and the first Lord Halifax in the Educational
Despatch of 1854, to sanction the system of national education for the multifarious classes
and races of our Indian subjects, under which secular instruction is aided by the state on
impartial terms according to its efficiency, and Christianity delights to take its place, unfettered
and certain of victory, with the Brahmanical and aboriginal cults of every kind.

In 1826 Carey, finding that his favourite Benevolent Institution in Calcutta was getting into
debt, and required repair, applied to Government for aid.  He had previously joined the Marchioness
of Hastings in founding the Calcutta School Book and School Society, and had thus been relieved
of some of the schools.  Government at once paid the debt, repaired the building, and continued
to give an annual grant of £240 for many years.  John Marshman did not think it necessary,
"to defend Dr. Carey from the charge of treason to the principles of dissent in having thus
solicited and accepted aid from the state for an educational establishment; the repudiation
of that aid is a modern addition to those principles."  He tells us that "when conversation
happened to turn upon this subject at Serampore, his father was wont to excuse any warmth which
his colleague might exhibit by the humorous remark that renegades always fought hardest. There
was one question on which the three were equally strenuous--that it was as much the duty of
Government to support education as to abstain from patronising missions."

A letter written in 1818 to his son William, then one of the missionaries, shows with what
jealous economy the founder of the great modern enterprise managed the early undertakings.

"MY DEAR WILLIAM--Yours of the 3rd instant I have received, and must say that it has filled
me with distress.  I do not know what the allowance of 200 rupees includes, nor how much is
allotted for particular things; but it appears that Rs. 142:2 is expended upon your private
expenses, viz., 78:2 on table expenses, and 64 on servants. Now neither Lawson nor Eustace
have more than 140 rupees for their allowance, separate from house rent, for which 80 rupees
each is allowed, and I believe all the brethren are on that, or a lower allowance, Brother
Yates excepted, who chooses for himself.  I cannot therefore make an application for more with
any face.  Indeed we have no power to add or diminish salaries, though the Society would agree
to our doing so if we showed good reasons for it.  I believe the allowances of the missionaries
from the London Society are about the same, or rather less--viz. £200 sterling, or 132 rupees
a month, besides extra expenses; so that your income, taking it at 140 rupees a month, is quite
equal to that of any other missionary.  I may also mention that neither Eustace nor Lawson
can do without a buggy, which is not a small expense.

"I suppose the two articles you have mentioned of table expenses and servants include a number
of other things; otherwise I cannot imagine how you can go to that expense.  When I was at
Mudnabati my income was 200 per month, and during the time I stayed there I had saved near
2000 rupees.  My table expenses scarcely ever amounted to 50 rupees, and though I kept a moonshi
at 20 rupees and four gardeners, yet my servants' wages did not exceed 60 rupees monthly. I
kept a horse and a farmyard, and yet my expenses bore no proportion to yours.  I merely mention
this without any reflection on you, or even a wish to do it; but I sincerely think your expenses
upon these two articles are very greater.--I am your affectionate father, W. CAREY."

In 1825 Carey completed his great Dictionary of Bengali and English in three quarto volumes,
abridged two years afterwards.  No language, not even in Europe, could show a work of such
industry, erudition, and philological completeness at that time.  Professor H. H. Wilson declared
that it must ever be regarded as a standard authority, especially because of its etymological
references to the Sanskrit, which supplies more than three-fourths of the words; its full and
correct vocabulary of local terms, with which the author's "long domestication amongst the
natives" made him familiar, and his unique knowledge of all natural history terms.  The first
copy which issued from the press he sent to Dr. Ryland, who had passed away at seventy-two,
a month before the following letter was written:--

"June 7th, 1825.--On the 17th of August next I shall be sixty-four years of age; and though
I feel the enervating influence of the climate, and have lost something of my bodily activity,
I labour as closely, and perhaps more so than I have ever done before.  My Bengali Dictionary
is finished at press.  I intend to send you a copy of it by first opportunity, which I request
you to accept as a token of my unshaken friendship to you.  I am now obliged, in my own defence,
to abridge it, and to do it as quickly as possible, to prevent another person from forestalling
me and running away with the profits.

"On Lord's day I preached a funeral sermon at Calcutta for one of our deacons, who died very
happily; administered the Lords' Supper, and preached again in the evening.  It was a dreadfully
hot day, and I was much exhausted.  Yesterday the rain set in, and the air is somewhat cooled.
It is still uncertain whether Brothers Judson and Price are living.  There was a report in
the newspaper that they were on their way to meet Sir Archibald Campbell with proposals of
peace from the Burman king; but no foundation for the report can be traced out. Living or dead
they are secure."

On hearing of the death of Dr. Ryland, he wrote:--"There are now in England very few ministers
with whom I was acquainted.  Fuller, Sutcliff, Pearce, Fawcett, and Ryland, besides many others
whom I knew, are gone to glory.  My family connections also, those excepted who were children
when I left England, or have since that time been born, are all gone, two sisters only excepted.
Wherever I look in England I see a vast blank; and were I ever to revisit that dear country
I should have an entirely new set of friendships to form. I, however, never intended to return
to England when I left it, and unless something very unexpected were to take place I certainly
shall not do it.  I am fully convinced I should meet with many who would show me the utmost
kindness in their power, but my heart is wedded to India, and though I am of little use I feel
a pleasure in doing the little I can, and a very high interest in the spiritual good of this
vast country, by whose instrumentality soever it is promoted."

By 1829 the divinity faculty of the College had become so valuable a nursery of Eurasian and
Native missionaries, and the importance of attracting more of the new generation of educated
Hindoos within its influence had become so apparent that Oriental gave place to English literature
in the curriculum.  Mr. Rowe, as English tutor, took his place in the staff beside Dr. Carey,
Dr. Marshman, Mr. Mack, and Mr. John Marshman.  Hundreds of native youths flocked to the classes.
Such was the faith, such the zeal of Carey, that he continued to add new missions to the ten
of which the College was the life-giving centre; so that when he was taken away he left eighteen,
under eleven European, thirteen Eurasian, seventeen Bengali, two Hindostani, one Telugoo, and
six Arakanese missionaries.  When Mr. David Scott, formerly a student of his own in Fort William
College, and in 1828 Commissioner of Assam (then recently annexed to the empire), asked for
a missionary, Carey's importunity prevailed with his colleagues only when he bound himself
to pay half the cost by stinting his personal expenditure.  Similarly it was the generous action
of Mr. Garrett, when judge of Barisal, that led him to send the best of his Serampore students
to found that afterwards famous mission.

Having translated the Gospels into the language of the Khasias in the Assam hills, he determined
in 1832 to open a new mission at the village of Cherra, which the Serampore Brotherhood were
the first to use as a sanitarium in the hot season.  For this he gave up £60 of his Government
pension and Mr. Garrett gave a similar sum.  He sent another of his students, Mr. Lisk, to
found the mission, which prospered until it was transferred to the Welsh Calvinists, who have
made it the centre of extensive and successful operations.  Thus the influence of his middle
age and old age in the Colleges of Fort William and of Serampore combined to make the missionary
patriarch the father of two bands--that of the Society and that of the Brotherhood.

Dr. Carey's last report, at the close of 1832, was a defence of what has since been called,
and outside of India and of Scotland has too often been misunderstood as, educational missions
or Christian Colleges.  To a purely divinity college for Asiatic Christians he preferred a
divinity faculty as part of an Arts and Science College,[29] in which the converts study side
by side with their inquiring countrymen, the inquirers are influenced by them as well as by
the Christian teaching and secular teaching in a Christian spirit, and the Bible consecrates
the whole.  The United Free Church of Scotland has, alike in India, China and Africa, proved
the wisdom, the breadth, and the spiritual advantage of Carey's policy. When the Society opposed
him, scholars like Mack from Edinburgh and Leechman from Glasgow rejoiced to work out his Paul-like
conception. When not only he, but Dr. Marshman, had passed away Mack bravely held aloft the
banner they bequeathed, till his death in 1846.  Then John Marshman, who in 1835 had begun
the Friend of India as a weekly paper to aid the College, transferred the mission to the Society
under the learned W. H. Denham.  When in 1854 a new generation of the English Baptists accepted
the College also as their own, it received a Principal worthy to succeed the giants of those
days, the Rev. John Trafford, M.A., a student of Foster's and of Glasgow University.  For twenty-six
years he carried out the principles of Carey.  On his retirement the College as such was suspended
in the year 1883, and in the same building a purely native Christian Training Institution took
its place.  There, however, the many visitors from Christendom still found the library and
museum; the Bibles, grammars, and dictionaries; the natural history collections, and the Oriental
MSS.; the Danish Charter, the historic portraits, and the British Treaty; as well as the native
Christian classes--all of which re-echo William Carey's appeal to posterity.

CHAPTER XV

CAREY'S CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOR THE PEOPLE OF INDIA

The Danish charter--The British treaty--Growth of native Christian community--Lord Minto's
concession of self-governing privileges--Madras Decennial Conference and Serampore degrees--Proposed
reorganisation of College so as to teach and examine for B.D. and other degrees--Appeal for
endowments of Carey's Christian University

Attention has already been directed to the far-seeing plans which Carey laid down for Serampore
College.  It is a pleasure to record that while this volume is in the press (1909), a scheme
is being promoted by the College Council for the reorganisation of the College on the lines
of Carey's ideal, with a view to making it a centre of higher ministerial training for all
branches of the Indian Church.

It will be remembered that in 1827 the College received from Friedrich VI. a Royal Charter,
empowering it to confer degrees, and giving to it all the rights which are possessed by Western
Universities.  Under Treaty dated the 6th October, 1845, the King of Denmark agreed to transfer
to the Governor-General of India, Lord Hardinge, G.C.B., for the sum of £125,000, the towns
of Tranquebar, Frederiksnagore or Serampore,[30] and the old factory site at Balasore.  Article
6 of this treaty provides that "the rights and immunities granted to the Serampore College
by Royal Charter, of date 23rd of February, 1827, shall not be interfered with, but continue
in force in the same manner as if they had been obtained by a Charter from the British Government,
subject to the General Law of British India."[31]

For lack of an endowment sufficient to maintain the teaching staff required, and to establish
the necessary scholarships, the College has never been fully developed on University lines.
Since 1883 it has been used as a training Institution for preachers and teachers for the Bengal
field of the Baptist Missionary Society.  Meanwhile in the century since Carey's statesman-like
ideal was sketched, under the providence of God there have been two notable developments in
the conditions of Indian life--(1) the educated Christian natives of India, from Cape Comorin
to Peshawar, have grown, and continue to grow, in numbers, in character, and in influence,
with a rapidity pronounced marvellous by the official report of the Census of 1901; (2) the
three hundred millions of the peoples of India have, by the frank concession of the Earl of
Minto and his advisers, and the sanction of Viscount Morley and Parliament, received a virtual
constitution, which recognises their fitness for self-governing rights under the benevolent
rule of King Edward VII. and his Viceroy in Council.  Christianity, and the leaven of the more
really educated Christian natives, will alone moralise and loyalise the peoples of India, and
prepare future generations for a healthy independence, material and political.

As they have watched the lines along which these developments have proceeded, the leaders of
the missionary enterprise have become more and more convinced that the realisation of Carey's
ideal has been too long delayed, and that the influence of the Christian community on the great
movements of Indian thought has suffered in consequence.  In particular, while the need for
highly-equipped Indian preachers, evangelists and leaders, is far more urgent now even than
it was in Carey's day, the most experienced missionaries of all societies are far from satisfied
with the present level of theological education in the Indian Church.  They are convinced that
the time has come to reorganise the whole system of ministerial training, and to secure for
the study of Christian Theology in India that academic recognition which it has enjoyed for
centuries in Western lands.  Since the British Government is pledged to neutrality in religious
matters, it is unable to sanction the establishment of Divinity faculties, in any of the State
Universities, Hence the Decennial Missionary Conference, representing all the Protestant Missionary
Societies working in India, meeting in Madras in December 1902, appointed a Committee "to confer
with the Council of the Serampore College, through the Committee of the London Baptist Missionary
Society, to ascertain whether they are prepared to delegate the degree-conferring powers of
the Charter of that College to a Senate or Faculty, representative of the various Protestant
Christian Churches and Societies working in India."

The College Council (of which Meredith Townsend, Esq., is Master, and Alfred Henry Baynes,
Esq., F.R.G.S., is Secretary), has taken this request into careful consideration, and after
being assured by the highest legal opinion that the Charter is still valid, has resolved to
do everything in its power to carry out the suggestions of the Decennial Conference.  They
realise, however, that if the degree-conferring powers of the Charter are to be used, the College
itself must be raised to the highest standard of efficiency as a Teaching Institution, and
its permanence must be guaranteed by an adequate endowment.

The Council has felt that the attainment of these two objects is possible only through a union
of the forces of the various Protestant Christian Churches working in India.  The result has
been the adoption of a wise and catholic project of reorganisation, under which it is hoped
that Serampore will become a great interdenominational College of University rank, giving a
theological training up to the standard of the London B.D., conferring its own divinity degrees,
and maintaining an Arts and Science department, for the present at least affiliated to the
Calcutta University.  It is justly claimed that such a Christian University at Serampore will
both unify and raise the standard of theological education in the Indian Church, helping to
build the Eastern structure of Christian thought and life on the one Foundation of Jesus Christ,
the Word of God.

The scheme which the Council has sanctioned contemplates the permanent endowment of the requisite
professorships and scholarships.  The College building will provide sufficient class-room accommodation,
but it will be necessary to secure additional land, and to erect houses for the staff and hostels
for the students.  An immediate endowment of £250,000 is aimed at with a view of establishing
a well-equipped theological faculty, with a preliminary department in Arts and Sciences.  The
Council, however, is not without hope that in due time Carey's noble vision of a great Christian
University at Serampore conferring its own degrees, not only in theology but in all branches
of useful learning, may powerfully appeal to some of the merchant princes of the West. It is
estimated that the sum of £2,000,000 would be required for this equipment and endowment of
the University on this larger scale.  The great missionary Churches and Societies look favourably
on the proposal, initiated by their own missionaries, to co-operate with Carey's more immediate
representatives in realising and applying his ideal which is bound to expand and grow as India
becomes Christianised.

The members of the College Council maintain that, in view of the world-wide influence of the
modern missionary movement, inaugurated by William Carey, a movement that has been so beneficial
both to the Church at home and to non-Christian nations, there is no institution that has greater
historical and spiritual claims upon modern philanthropy than Serampore, and they believe that
there are large numbers of men and women in Great Britain, America, India and other lands who
will consider it a sacred privilege to have their names inscribed with those of Carey, Marshman
and Ward on the walls of Serampore College as its second founders.

The Council is doing all within its power to reorganise the College on the broadest possible
basis, believing that an institution with such inspiring traditions and associations should
be utilised in the interests, not merely of one denomination, but of the whole Church in India
and the nation.  Up to the present, the Council, though legally an entirely independent body,
has worked in the closest association with the Baptist Missionary Society's Committee.  But
now with the fullest sympathy both of the Baptist Missionaries on the field and the Committee
in England, it is also inviting the co-operation of all evangelical Christian bodies in the
work of Serampore College.  It is prepared to welcome as full professors of the College, in
Arts and Theology, representatives of other evangelical missions, who shall have special superintendence
of the students belonging to their respective denominations, and be free to give them such
supplementary instruction as may be thought necessary.  All professors without distinction
of denomination will share equally in the local management of the affairs of the College. The
final authority must, in accordance with the Charter, remain in the hands of the College Council,
but in order to admit of the due representation upon the Council of the various evangelical
bodies which may co-operate, the present members of Council have, with the hearty concurrence
of the Baptist Missionary Society's Committee, approved the suggestion that application should
be made to the Indian Legislature for powers to enlarge its membership.

The Honorary Secretary of the College Council, A. H. Baynes, Esq., 19 Furnival Street, London,
E.C., will be glad to supply further information, or to receive contributions towards the Fund
for the endowment and equipment of the College.

In view of the conditions at present existing in India, this appeal should be of interest not
only to friends of Christian missions, but to philanthropists generally, for a Christian University,
conducted on the broad and catholic principles laid down by Carey, supplementary but in no
way antagonistic to the existing Universities, will be a most effective instrument for permeating
the political and social ideals of the youth of India with the spirit of Christ.  This is a
matter that deeply concerns, not only the Missionary, but also the statesman, the merchant,
and all true friends of India of whatever race or creed.

In all the romance of Christian Missions, from Iona to Canterbury, there is no more evident
example of the working of the Spirit of God with the Church, than the call of Carey and the
foundation of Serampore College under Danish Charter and British treaty, making it the only
University with full powers to enable the whole Reformed Church in India to work out its own
theological system and Christian life.

CHAPTER XVI

CAREY'S LAST DAYS

1830-1834

The college and mission stripped of all their funds--Failure of the six firms for sixteen millions--Carey's
official income reduced from £1560 to £600--His Thoughts and Appeal published in England--His
vigour at seventy--Last revision of the Bengali Bible--Final edition of the Bengali New Testament--Carey
rejoices in the reforms of Lord William Bentinck's Government--In the emancipation of the slaves--Carey
sketched by his younger contemporaries--His latest letters and last message to Christendom--Visits
of Lady William Bentinck and Bishop Daniel Wilson--Marshman's affection and promise as to the
garden--The English mail brings glad news a fortnight before his death--His last Sabbath--He
dies--Is buried--His tomb among his converts--His will--The Indian press on his poverty and
disinterestedness--Dr. Marshman and Mack, Christopher Anderson and John Wilson of Bombay on
his character--His influence still as the founder of missions--Dr. Cox and Robert Hall on Carey
as a man--Scotland's estimate of the father of the Evangelical Revival and its foreign missions.

The last days of William Carey were the best.  His sun went down in all the splendour of a
glowing faith and a burning self-sacrifice. Not in the penury of Hackleton and Moulton, not
in the hardships of Calcutta and the Soondarbans, not in the fevers of the swamps of Dinapoor,
not in the apprehensions twice excited by official intolerance, not in the most bitter sorrow
of all--the sixteen years' persecution by English brethren after Fuller's death, had the father
of modern missions been so tried as in the years 1830-1833. Blow succeeded blow, but only that
the fine gold of his trust, his humility, and his love might be seen to be the purer.

The Serampore College and Mission lost all the funds it had in India. By 1830 the financial
revolution which had laid many houses low in Europe five years before, began to tell upon the
merchant princes of Calcutta.  The six firms, which had developed the trade of Northern India
so far as the Company's monopolies allowed, had been the bankers of the Government itself,
of states like Haidarabad, and of all the civil and military officials, and had enriched a
succession of partners for half a century, fell one by one--fell for sixteen millions sterling
among them.  Palmer and Co. was the greatest; the house at one time played a large part in
the history of India, and in the debates and papers of Parliament.  Mr. John Palmer, a personal
friend of the Serampore men, had advanced them money at ten per cent. four years previously,
when the Society's misrepresentation had done its worst. The children in the Eurasian schools,
which Dr. and Mrs. Marshman conducted with such profit to the mission, depended chiefly on
funds deposited with this firm.  It suddenly failed for more than two millions sterling. Although
the catastrophe exposed the rottenness of the system of credit on which commerce and banking
were at that time conducted, in the absence of a free press and an intelligent public opinion,
the alarm soon subsided, and only the more business fell to the other firms.  But the year
1833 had hardly opened when first the house of Alexander and Co., then that of Mackintosh and
Co., and then the three others, collapsed without warning.  The English in India, officials
and merchants, were reduced to universal poverty.  Capital disappeared and credit ceased at
the very time that Parliament was about to complete the partial concession of freedom of trade
made by the charter of 1813, by granting all Carey had argued for, and allowing Europeans to
hold land.

The funds invested for Jessor and Delhi; the legacy of Fernandez, Carey's first convert and
missionary; his own tenths with which he supported three aged relatives in England; the property
of the partner of his third marriage, on whom the money was settled, and who survived him by
a year; the little possessed by Dr. Marshman, who had paid all his expenses in England even
while working for the Society--all was swept away.  Not only was the small balance in hand
towards meeting the college and mission expenditure gone, but it was impossible to borrow even
for a short time.  Again one of Dr. Carey's old civilian students came to the rescue.  Mr.
Garrett, grandson of Robert Raikes who first began Sunday schools, pledged his own credit with
the Bank of Bengal, until Samuel Hope of Liverpool, treasurer of the Serampore Mission there,
could be communicated with.  Meanwhile the question of giving up any of the stations or shutting
the college was not once favoured. "I have seen the tears run down the face of the venerable
Dr. Carey at the thought of such a calamity," wrote Leechman; "were it to arrive we should
soon have to lay him in his grave."  When the interest of the funds raised by Ward in America
ceased for a time because of the malicious report from England that it might be applied by
Dr. Marshman to the purposes of family aggrandisement, Carey replied in a spirit like that
of Paul under a similar charge: "Dr. Marshman is as poor as I am, and I can scarcely lay by
a sum monthly to relieve three or four indigent relatives in Europe.  I might have had large
possessions, but I have given my all, except what I ate, drank, and wore, to the cause of missions,
and Dr. Marshman has done the same, and so did Mr. Ward."

Carey's trust in God, for the mission and for himself, was to be still further tried.  On 12th
July 1828 we find him thus writing from Calcutta to Jabez:--"I came down this morning to attend
Lord W. Bentinck's first levée.  It was numerously attended, and I had the pleasure of seeing
there a great number of gentlemen who had formerly studied under me, and for whom I felt a
very sincere regard.  I hear Lady Bentinck is a pious woman, but have not yet seen her.  I
have a card to attend at her drawing-room this evening, but I shall not go, as I must be at
home for the Sabbath, which is to-morrow."  It soon fell to Lord William Bentinck to meet the
financial consequences of his weak predecessor's administration. The College of Fort William
had to be sacrificed.  Metcalfe and Bayley, Carey's old students whom he had permanently influenced
in the higher life, were the members of council, and he appealed to them.  They sent him to
the good Governor-General, to whose sympathy he laid bare all the past and present of the mission's
finance.  He was told to have no fear, and indeed the Council held a long sitting on this one
matter.  But from June 1830 the college ceased to be a teaching, and became an examining body.
When the salary was reduced one-half, from Rs. 1000 a month, the Brotherhood met to pray for
light and strength.  Mr. Robinson, the Java missionary who had attached himself to Serampore,
and whose son long did good service as a Bengali scholar and preacher, gives us this glimpse
of its inner life at this time:--

"The two old men were dissolved in tears while they were engaged in prayer, and Dr. Marshman
in particular could not give expressions to his feelings.  It was indeed affecting to see these
good old men, the fathers of the mission, entreating with tears that God would not forsake
them now grey hairs were come upon them, but that He would silence the tongue of calumny, and
furnish them with the means of carrying on His own cause."

They sent home an appeal to England, and Carey himself published what is perhaps the most chivalrous,
just, and weighty of all his utterances on the disagreeable subject--Thoughts upon the Discussions
which have arisen from the Separation between the Baptist Missionary Society and the Serampore
Missions. "From our age and other circumstances our contributions may soon cease.  We have
seen a great work wrought in India, and much of it, either directly or indirectly, has been
done by ourselves.  I cannot, I ought not to be indifferent about the permanency of this work,
and cannot therefore view the exultation expressed at the prospect of our resources being crippled
otherwise than being of a character too satanic to be long persisted in by any man who has
the love of God in his heart."

The appeal to all Christians for "a few hundred pounds per annum" for the mission station closed
thus: "But a few years have passed away since the Protestant world was awakened to missionary
effort. Since that time the annual revenues collected for this object have grown to the then
unthought-of sum of £400,000.  And is it unreasonable to expect that some unnoticeable portion
of this should be intrusted to him who was amongst the first to move in this enterprise and
to his colleagues?"  The Brotherhood had hardly despatched this appeal to England with the
sentence, "Our present incomes even are uncertain," when the shears of financial reduction
cut off Dr. Carey's office of Bengali translator to Government, which for eight years had yielded
him Rs. 300 a month.  But such was his faith this final stroke called forth only an expression
of regret that he must reduce his contributions to the missionary cause by so much.  He was
a wonder to his colleagues, who wrote of him: "Though thus reduced in his circumstances the
good man, about to enter on his seventieth year, is as cheerful and as happy as the day is
long.  He rides out four or five miles every morning, returning home by sunrise; goes on with
the work of translation day by day; gives two lectures on divinity and one on natural history
every week in the college, and takes his turn of preaching both in Bengali and in English."

When the Christian public responded heartily to his appeal Carey was loud and frequent in his
expressions of gratitude to God, who, "in the time of our great extremity, appeared and stirred
up His people thus willingly to offer their substance for His cause."  With respect to myself,
I consider my race as nearly run.  The days of our years are three score years and ten, and
I am now only three months short of that age, and repeated bilious attacks have weakened my
constitution.  But I do not look forward to death with any painful anticipations.  I cast myself
on and plead the efficacy of that atonement which will not fail me when I need it."

Dr. Marshman gives us a brighter picture of him. "I met with very few friends in England in
their seventieth year so lively, as free from the infirmities of age, so interesting in the
pulpit, so completely conversible as he is now."  The reason is found in the fact that he was
still useful, still busy at the work he loved most of all.  He completed his last revision
of the entire Bible in Bengali--the fifth edition of the Old Testament and the eighth edition
of the New--in June 1832.  As the months went on he carried through the press still another
and improved edition of the New Testament, and only then he felt and often said that the work
of his heart was done.

He had other sources of saintly pleasure as he lay meditating on the Word, and praising God
for His goodness to the college and the mission stations increased to nineteen by young Sir
Henry Havelock, who founded the church at Agra. Lord William Bentinck, having begun his reign
with the abolition of the crime of suttee, was, with the help of Carey's old students, steadily
carrying out the other reforms for which in all his Indian career the missionary had prayed
and preached and published. The judicial service was reorganised so as to include native judges.
The uncovenanted civil service was opened to all British subjects of every creed.  The first
act of justice to native Christians was thus done, so that he wrote of the college:--"The students
are now eligible to every legal appointment in India which a native can hold; those who may
possess no love for the Christian ministry have the prospect of a profitable profession as
advocates in the judicial courts, and the hope of rising to posts of honourable distinction
in their native land." The Hindoo law of inheritance which the Regulating Act of Parliament
had so covered that it was used to deprive converts to Christianity of all civil rights, was
dealt with so far as a local regulation could do so, and Carey, advised by such an authority
as Harington, laid it on his successor in the apostolate, the young Alexander Duff, to carry
the act of justice out fully, which was done under the Marquis of Dalhousie.  The orders drawn
up by Charles Grant's sons at last, in February 1833, freed Great Britain from responsibility
for the connection of the East India Company with Temple and mosque endowments and the pilgrim tax.

His son Jonathan wrote this of him two years after his death:--

"In principle my father was resolute and firm, never shrinking from avowing and maintaining
his sentiments.  He had conscientious scruples against taking an oath; and condemned severely
the manner in which oaths were administered, and urged vehemently the propriety of altogether
dispensing with them.  I remember three instances in which he took a conspicuous part in regard
to oaths, such as was characteristic of the man.  On one occasion, when a respectable Hindoo
servant of the college of Fort William, attached to Dr. Carey's department, was early one morning
proceeding to the Ganges to bathe, he perceived a dead body lying near the road; but it being
dark, and no person being present, he passed on, taking no further notice of the circumstance.
As he returned from the Ganges after sunrise, he saw a crowd near the body, and then happened
to say to one of the watchmen present that in the morning he saw the body on the other side
of the road.  The watchman took him in custody, as a witness before the coroner; but, when
brought before the coroner, he refused to take an oath, and was, consequently, committed to
prison for contempt.  The Hindoo being a respectable person, and never having taken an oath,
refused to take any nourishment in the prison. In this state he continued a day and a half,
my father being then at Serampore; but upon his coming to Calcutta, the circumstances were
mentioned to him.  The fact of the man having refused to take an oath was enough to make him
interest himself in his behalf.  He was delighted with the resolution the man took--rather
to go to prison than take an oath; and was determined to do all he could to procure his liberation.
He first applied to the coroner, but was directed by him to the sheriff.  To that functionary
he proceeded, but was informed by him that he could make no order on the subject. He then had
an interview with the then chief judge, by whose interference the man was set at liberty.

"Another instance relates to him personally.  On the occasion of his last marriage, the day
was fixed on which the ceremony was to take place--friends were invited--and all necessary
arrangements made; but, three or four days prior to the day fixed, he was informed that it
would be necessary for him to obtain a licence, in doing which, he must either take an oath
or have banns published.  To taking an oath he at once objected, and applied to the then senior
judge, who informed him that, as he was not a quaker, his oath was indispensable; but, rather
than take an oath, he applied to have the banns published, and postponed the arrangements for
his marriage for another three weeks.

"The third instance was as follows:--It was necessary, in a certain case, to prove a will in
court, in which the name of Dr. Carey was mentioned, in connection with the Serampore missionaries
as executors. An application was made by one of his colleagues, which was refused by the court,
on account of the vagueness of the terms, 'Serampore missionaries;' but as Dr. Carey's name
was specifically mentioned, the court intimated that they would grant the application if made
by him. The communication was made: but when he was informed that an oath was necessary, he
shrunk with abhorrence from the idea; but after much persuasion, he consented to make the application,
if taking an oath would be dispensed with.  He did attend, and stated his objections to the
then chief judge, which being allowed, his affirmation was received and recorded by the court.

"The duties connected with the College of Fort William afforded him a change of scene, which
relieved his mind, and gave him opportunities of taking exercise, and conduced much to his
health. During the several years he held the situation of professor to the college, no consideration
would allow him to neglect his attendance; and though he had to encounter boisterous weather
in crossing the river at unseasonable hours, he was punctual in his attendance, and never applied
for leave of absence.  And when he was qualified by the rules of the service to retire on a
handsome pension, he preferred being actively employed in promoting the interests of the college,
and remained, assiduously discharging his duties, till his department was abolished by Government.
The business of the college requiring his attendance in Calcutta, he became so habituated to
his journeys to and fro, that at his age he painfully felt the retirement he was subjected
to when his office ceased.  After this circumstance his health rapidly declined; and though
he occasionally visited Calcutta, he complained of extreme debility.  This increased daily,
and made him a constant sufferer; until at length he was not able to leave his house."

Nor was it in India alone that the venerable saint found such causes of satisfaction.  He lived
long enough to thank God for the emancipation of the slaves by the English people, for which
he had prayed daily for fifty years.

We have many sketches of the Father of English Missions in his later years by young contemporaries
who, on their first arrival in Bengal, sought him out.  In 1824 Mr. Leslie, an Edinburgh student,
who became in India the first of Baptist preachers, and was the means of the conversion of
Henry Havelock who married Dr. Marshman's youngest daughter, wrote thus of Carey after the
third great illness of his Indian life:--

"Dr. Carey, who has been very ill, is quite recovered, and bids fair to live many years; and
as for Dr. Marshman, he has never known ill-health is, during the whole period of his residence
in India. They are both active to a degree which you would think impossible in such a country.
Dr. Carey is a very equable and cheerful old man, in countenance very like the engraving of
him with his pundit, though not so robust as he appears to be there.  Next to his translations
Botany is his grand study.  He has collected every plant and tree in his garden that will possibly
grow in India, and is so scientific withal that he calls everything by its classical name.
If, therefore, I should at any time blunder out the word Geranium, he would say Pelargonium,
and perhaps accuse me of ignorance, or blame me for vulgarity.  We had the pleasure of hearing
him preach from Rom. vii. 13, when he gave us an excellent sermon.  In manner he is very animated,
and in style very methodical. Indeed he carries method into everything he does; classification
is his grand hobby, and wherever anything can be classified, there you find Dr. Carey; not
only does he classify and arrange the roots of plants and words, but visit his dwelling and
you find he has fitted up and classified shelves full of minerals, stones, shells, etc., and
cages full of birds.  He is of very easy access, and great familiarity.  His attachments are
strong, and extend not merely to persons but places. About a year ago, so much of the house
in which he had lived ever since he had been at Serampore, fell down so that he had to leave
it, at which he wept bitterly.  One morning at breakfast, he was relating to us an anecdote
of the generosity of the late excellent John Thornton, at the remembrance of whom the big tear
filled his eye.  Though it is an affecting sight to see the venerable man weep; yet it is a
sight which greatly interests you, as there is a manliness in his tears--something far removed
from the crying of a child."

The house in which for the last ten years he lived, and where he died, was the only one of
two or three, planned for the new professors of the college, that was completed.  Compared
with the adjoining college it was erected with such severe simplicity that it was said to have
been designed for angels rather than for men. Carey's room and library looked towards the river
with the breadth of the college garden between.  On the other side, in the upper verandah,
in the morning he worked at his desk almost to the last, and in the evening towards sunset
he talked with his visitors.  In 1826 the London Missionary Society sent out to Calcutta the
first of its deputations.  Dr. Carey sent his boat for them, and in the absence of her husband
in England, Mrs. Marshman entertained the guests.  They wrote:--

"We found Dr. Carey in his study, and we were both pleased and struck with his primitive, and
we may say, apostolical appearance. He is short of stature, his hair white, his countenance
equally bland and benevolent in feature and expression.  Two Hindoo men were sitting by, engaged
in painting some small subjects in natural history, of which the doctor, a man of pure taste
and highly intellectual cast of feeling, irrespective of his more learned pursuits, has a choice
collection, both in specimens and pictorial representations.  Botany is a favourite study with
him, and his garden is curiously enriched with rarities."

Of all the visits paid to Carey none are now so interesting to the historian of the Church
of India, as those of the youth who succeeded him as he had succeeded Schwartz.  Alexander
Duff was twenty-four years of age when, in 1830, full of hesitation as to carrying out his
own plans in opposition to the experience of all the missionaries he had consulted, he received
from Carey alone the most earnest encouragement to pursue in Calcutta the Christian college
policy so well begun in the less central settlement of Serampore.  We have elsewhere[32] told
the story:--

"Landing at the college ghaut one sweltering July day, the still ruddy highlander strode up
to the flight of steps that leads to the finest modern building in Asia. Turning to the left,
he sought the study of Carey in the house--'built for angels,' said one, so simple is it--where
the greatest of missionary scholars was still working for India.  There he beheld what seemed
to be a little yellow old man in a white jacket, who tottered up to the visitor of whom he
had already often heard, and with outstretched hands solemnly blessed him.  A contemporary
soon after wrote thus of the childlike saint--

  "'Thou'rt in our heart--with tresses thin and grey,
    And eye that knew the Book of Life so well,
  And brow serene, as thou wert wont to stray
    Amidst thy flowers--like Adam ere he fell.'

"The result of the conference was a double blessing; for Carey could speak with the influence
at once of a scholar who had created the best college at that time in the country, and of a
vernacularist who had preached to the people for half a century.  The young Scotsman left his
presence with the approval of the one authority whose opinion was best worth having...

"Among those who visited him in his last illness was Alexander Duff, the Scots missionary.
On one of the last occasions on which he saw him--if not the very last--he spent some time
talking chiefly about Carey's missionary life, till at length the dying man whispered, Pray.
Duff knelt down and prayed, and then said Good-bye.  As he passed from the room, he thought
he heard a feeble voice pronouncing his name, and, turning, he found that he was recalled.
He stepped back accordingly, and this is what he heard, spoken with a gracious solemnity: 'Mr.
Duff, you have been speaking about Dr. Carey, Dr. Carey; When I am gone, say nothing about
Dr. Carey--speak about Dr. Carey's Saviour.'  Duff went away rebuked and awed, with a lesson
in his heart that he never forgot."[33]

When with his old friends he dwelt much on the past.  Writing of May 1832, Dr. Marshman mentioned:
"I spent an hour at tea with dear Brother Carey last night, now seventy and nine months.  He
was in the most comfortable state of health, talking over his first feelings respecting India
and the heathen, and the manner in which God kept them alive, when even Fuller could not yet
enter into them, and good old John Ryland (the doctor's father) denounced them as unscriptural.
Had these feelings died away, in what a different state might India now have been!"  In September
of that year, when burying Mrs. Ward, he seemed, in his address at the grave, to long for renewed
intercourse with the friends who had preceded him in entering into the joy of the Lord.

On Mr. Leechman's arrival from Scotland to be his colleague, he found the old man thus vigorous
even in April 1833, or if "faint, yet pursuing":--

"Our venerable Dr. Carey is in excellent health, and takes his turn in all our public exercises.
Just forty years ago, the first of this month, he administered the Lord's Supper to the church
at Leicester, and started on the morrow to embark for India.  Through this long period of honourable
toil the Lord has mercifully preserved him; and at our missionary prayer meeting, held on the
first of this month, he delivered an interesting address to encourage us to persevere in the
work of the Lord. We have also a private monthly prayer meeting held in Dr. Carey's study,
which is to me a meeting of uncommon interest.  On these occasions we particularly spread before
the Lord our public and private trials, both those which come upon us from the cause of Christ,
with which it is our honour and privilege to be connected, and those also which we as individuals
are called to bear.  At our last meeting Dr. Carey read part of the history of Gideon, and
commented with deep feeling on the encouragement which that history affords, that the cause
of God can be carried on to victory and triumph, by feeble and apparently inefficient means."

Carey's successor, Mack, wrote thus to Christopher Anderson ten months later:--

"SERAMPORE, 31st January 1834.--Our venerable father, Dr. Carey, is yet continued to us, but
in the same state in which he has been for the last three months or so.  He is quite incapable
of work, and very weak. He can walk but a few yards at a time, and spends the day in reading
for profit and entertainment, and in occasionally nodding and sleeping. He is perfectly tranquil
in mind.  His imagination does not soar much in vivid anticipations of glory; and it never
disquiets him with restless misgivings respecting his inheritance in God. To him it is everything
that the gospel is true, and he believes it; and, as he says, if he can say he knows anything,
he knows that he believes it. When his attention is turned to his dismissal from earth, or
his hope of glory, his emotions are tender and sweet.  They are also very simple, and express
themselves in a few brief and pithy sentences.  His interest in all the affairs of the mission
is unabated, and although he can no longer join us either in deliberation or associated prayer,
he must be informed of all that occurs, and his heart is wholly with us in whatever we do.
I do not conceive it possible that he can survive the ensuing hot season, but he may, and the
Lord will do in this as in all other things what is best.

"When our necessities were coming to their climax I concluded that I must leave Serampore in
order to find food to eat, and I fixed upon Cherra-poonjee as my future residence.  I proposed
establishing a first-class school there, and then with some warmth of imagination I began anticipating
a sort of second edition of Serampore up in the Khasia hills, to be a centre of diffusing light
in the western provinces.  I became really somewhat enamoured of the phantom of my imagination,
but it was not to be.  The brethren here would not see it as I did."

This last sketch, by Mr. Gogerly, whom the London Missionary Society had sent out in 1819,
brings us still nearer the end:--

"At this time I paid him my last visit.  He was seated near his desk, in the study, dressed
in his usual neat attire; his eyes were closed, and his hands clasped together.  On his desk
was the proof-sheet of the last chapter of the New Testament, which he had revised a few days
before.  His appearance, as he sat there, with the few white locks which adorned his venerable
brow, and his placid colourless face, filled me with a kind of awe; for he appeared as then
listening to the Master's summons, and as waiting to depart.  I sat, in his presence, for about
half an hour, and not one word was uttered; for I feared to break that solemn silence, and
call back to earth the soul that seemed almost in heaven.  At last, however, I spoke; and well
do I remember the identical words that passed between us, though more than thirty-six years
have elapsed since then.  I said, 'My dear friend, you evidently are standing on the borders
of the eternal world; do not think it wrong, then, if I ask, What are your feelings in the
immediate prospect of death?'  The question roused him from his apparent stupor, and opening
his languid eyes, he earnestly replied, 'As far as my personal salvation is concerned, I have
not the shadow of a doubt; I know in Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able
to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day; but when I think that I am about
to appear in the presence of a holy God, and remember all my sins and manifold imperfections--I
tremble.'  He could say no more. The tears trickled down his cheeks, and after a while he relapsed
into the same state of silence from which I had aroused him.

"Deeply solemn was that interview, and important the lesson I then received.  Here was one
of the most holy and harmless men whom I ever knew--who had lived above the breath of calumny
for upwards of forty years, surrounded by and in close intimacy with many, both Europeans and
natives, who would have rejoiced to have witnessed any inconsistency in his conduct, but who
were constrained to admire his integrity and Christian character--whilst thus convinced of
the certainty of his salvation, through the merits of that Saviour whom he had preached, yet
so impressed with the exceeding sinfulness of sin, that he trembled at the thought of appearing
before a holy God! A few days after this event, Dr. Carey retired to his bed, from which he
never rose."

So long before this as 17th March 1802, Carey had thus described himself to Dr. Ryland:--"A
year or more ago you, or some other of my dear friends, mentioned an intention of publishing
a volume of sermons as a testimony of mutual Christian love, and wished me to send a sermon
or two for that purpose.  I have seriously intended it, and more than once sat down to accomplish
it, but have as constantly been broken off from it.  Indolence is my prevailing sin, and to
that are now added a number of avocations which I never thought of; I have also so continual
a fear that I may at last fall some way or other so as to dishonour the Gospel that I have
often desired that my name may be buried in oblivion; and indeed I have reason for those fears,
for I am so prone to sin that I wonder every night that I have been preserved from foul crimes
through the day, and when I escape a temptation I esteem it to be a miracle of grace which
has preserved me.  I never was so fully persuaded as I am now that no habit of religion is
a security from falling into the foulest crimes, and I need the immediate help of God every
moment. The sense of my continual danger has, I confess, operated strongly upon me to induce
me to desire that no publication of a religious nature should be published as mine whilst I
am alive. Another reason is my sense of incapacity to do justice to any subject, or even to
write good sense.  I have, it is true, been obliged to publish several things, and I can say
that nothing but necessity could have induced me to do it.  They are, however, only grammatical
works, and certainly the very last things which I should have written if I could have chosen
for myself."

On 15th June 1833 the old man was still able to rejoice with others. He addressed to his son
Jonathan the only brief letter which the present writer possesses from his pen, in a hand as
clear as that of a quarter of a century before:--

"MY DEAR JONATHAN--I congratulate you upon the good news you have received.  But am sorry Lucy
continues so ill.  I am too weak to write more than to say your mother is as well as the weather
will permit us to expect.  I could scarcely have been worse to live than I have been the last
fortnight.--Your affectionate father, W. CAREY."

The hot season had then reached its worst.

His last letters were brief messages of love and hope to his two sisters in England.  On 27th
July 1833 he wrote to them:--

"About a week ago so great a change took place in me that I concluded it was the immediate
stroke of death, and all my children were informed of it and have been here to see me.  I have
since that revived in an almost miraculous manner, or I could not have written this.  But I
cannot expect it to continue.  The will of the Lord be done.  Adieu, till I meet you in a better
world.--Your affectionate brother, "W. CAREY."

Two months later he was at his old work, able "now and then to read a proof sheet of the Scriptures."

"SERAMPORE, 25th Sept. 1833.

"MY DEAR SISTERS--My being able to write to you now is quite unexpected by me, and, I believe,
by every one else; but it appears to be the will of God that I should continue a little time
longer. How long that may be I leave entirely with Him, and can only say, 'All the days of
my appointed time will I wait till my change come.' I was, two months or more ago, reduced
to such a state of weakness that it appeared as if my mind was extinguished; and my weakness
of body, and sense of extreme fatigue and exhaustion, were such that I could scarcely speak,
and it appeared that death would be no more felt than the removing from one chair to another.
I am now able to sit and to lie on my couch, and now and then to read a proof sheet of the
Scriptures.  I am too weak to walk more than just across the house, nor can I stand even a
few minutes without support.  I have every comfort that kind friends can yield, and feel, generally,
a tranquil mind.  I trust the great point is settled, and I am ready to depart; but the time
when, I leave with God.

"3rd Oct.--I am not worse than when I began this letter.--I am, your very affectionate brother,
WM. CAREY."

His latest message to Christendom was sent on the 30th September, most appropriately to Christopher
Anderson:--"As everything connected with the full accomplishment of the divine promises depends
on the almighty power of God, pray that I and all the ministers of the Word may take hold of
His strength, and go about our work as fully expecting the accomplishment of them all, which,
however difficult and improbable it may appear, is certain, as all the promises of God are
in Him, yea, and in Him, Amen." Had he not, all his career, therefore expected and attempted
great things?

He had had a chair fixed on a small platform, constructed after his own direction, that he
might be wheeled through his garden.  At other times the chief gardener Hullodhur, reported
to him the state of the collection of plants, then numbering about 2000.  Dr. Marshman saw
his friend daily, sometimes twice a day, and found him always what Lord Hastings had described
him to be--"the cheerful old man."  On the only occasion on which he seemed sad, Dr. Marshman
as he was leaving the room turned and asked why.  With deep feeling the dying scholar looked
to the others and said, "After I am gone Brother Marshman will turn the cows into my garden."
The reply was prompt, "Far be it from me; though I have not your botanical tastes, the care
of the garden in which you have taken so much delight, shall be to me a sacred duty."[34]

Of strangers his most frequent visitor was the Governor-General's wife, Lady William Bentinck.
Her husband was in South India, and she spent most of her time in Barrackpore Park retreat
opposite to Carey's house. From her frequent converse with him, in his life as well as now,
she studied the art of dying.  Daniel Wilson, Bishop of Calcutta, learned to delight in Serampore
almost from the beginning of his long episcopate, and in later years he lived there more than
in Calcutta. On the 14th February 1833 he first visited Carey, "his interview with whom, confined
as he was to his room, and apparently on the verge of the celestial world, was peculiarly affecting."
In the last of subsequent visits the young Bishop asked the dying missionary's benediction.
With all the talk was the same, a humble resignation to the will of God, firm trust in the
Redeemer of sinners, a joyful gratitude for the wonderful progress of His Kingdom.  What a
picture is this that his brethren sent home six weeks before he passed away. "Our aged and
venerable brother feels himself growing gradually weaker.  He can scarcely rise from his couch,
and it is with great difficulty that he is carried out daily to take the air.  Yet he is free
from all pain as to disease, and his mind is in a most serene and happy state.  He is in full
possession of his faculties, and, although with difficulty, on account of his weakness, he
still converses with his friends from day to day."

The hottest season of the year crept wearily on during the month of May and the first week
of June.  Each night he slept well, and each day he was moved to his couch in the dining-room
for air.  There he lay, unable to articulate more than a word or two, but expressing by his
joyful features union in prayer and interest in conversation. On the 22nd May the English mail
arrived with gladdening intelligence from Mr. Hope--God's people were praying and giving anew
for the mission. Especially was his own latest station of Cherra-poonjee remembered.  As he
was told that a lady, anonymously, had offered £500 for that mission, £500 for the college,
£500 for the translations, and £100 for the mission generally, he raised his emaciated hands
to heaven and murmured praise to God. When the delirium of departure came he strove to reach
his desk that he might write a letter of thanks, particularly for Cherra.  Then he would recall
the fact that the little church he at first formed had branched out into six and twenty churches,
in which the ordinances of the Gospel were regularly administered, and he would whisper, "What
has God wrought!"

The last Sabbath had come--and the last full day.  The constant Marshman was with him. "He
was scarcely able to articulate, and after a little conversation I knelt down by the side of
his couch and prayed with him.  Finding my mind unexpectedly drawn out to bless God for His
goodness, in having preserved him and blessed him in India for above forty years, and made
him such an instrument of good to His church; and to entreat that on his being taken home,
a double portion of his spirit might rest on those who remained behind; though unable to speak,
he testified sufficiently by his countenance how cordially he joined in this prayer.  I then
asked Mrs. Carey whether she thought he could now see me.  She said yes, and to convince me,
said, 'Mr. Marshman wishes to know whether you now see him?'  He answered so loudly that I
could hear him, 'Yes, I do,' and shook me most cordially by the hand.  I then left him, and
my other duties did not permit me to reach him again that day.  The next morning, as I was
returning home before sunrise, I met our Brethren Mack and Leechman out on their morning ride,
when Mack told me that our beloved brother had been rather worse all the night, and that he
had just left him very ill.  I immediately hastened home, through the college in which he has
lived these ten years, and when I reached his room, found that he had just entered into the
joy of his Lord--Mrs. Carey, his son Jabez, my son John, and Mrs. Mack being present."

It was Monday the 9th June 1834, at half-past five, as the morning sun was ascending the heavens
towards the perfect day.  The rain-clouds burst and covered the land with gloom next morning
when they carried William Carey to the converts' burial-ground and made great lamentation.
The notice was too short for many to come up from Calcutta in those days. "Mr. Duff, of the
Scottish Church, returned a most kind letter."  Sir Charles Metcalfe and the Bishop wrote very
feelingly in reply.  Lady Bentinck sent the Rev. Mr. Fisher to represent the Governor-General
and herself, and "a most kind and feeling answer, for she truly loved the venerable man," while
she sadly gazed at the mourners as they followed the simple funeral up the right bank of the
Hoogli, past the College and the Mission chapel.  Mr. Yates, who had taken a loving farewell
of the scholar he had been reluctant to succeed, represented the younger brethren; Lacroix,
Micaiah Hill, and Gogerly, the London Missionary Society.  Corrie and Dealtry do not seem to
have reached the spot in time.  The Danish Governor, his wife, and the members of council were
there, and the flag drooped half-mast high as on the occasion of a Governor's death.  The road
was lined by the poor, Hindoo and Mohammedan, for whom he had done so much.  When all, walking
in the rain, had reached the open grave, the sun shone out, and Leechman led them in the joyous
resurrection hymn, "Why do we mourn departing friends?" "I then addressed the audience," wrote
Marshman, "and, contrary to Brother Mack's foretelling that I should never get through it for
tears, I did not shed one. Brother Mack was then asked to address the native members, but he,
seeing the time so far gone, publicly said he would do so at the village.  Brother Robinson
then prayed, and weeping--then neither myself nor few besides could refrain."  In Jannuggur
village chapel in the evening the Bengali burial hymn was sung, P[oe]ritran Christer Morone,
"Salvation by the death of Christ," and Pran Krishna, the oldest disciple, led his countrymen
in prayer.  Then Mack spoke to the weeping converts with all the pathos of their own sweet
vernacular from the words, "For David, after he had served his own generation, by the will
of God fell on sleep."  Had not Carey's been a royal career, even that of a king and a priest
unto God?

"We, as a mission," wrote Dr. Marshman to Christopher Anderson, "took the expense on ourselves,
not suffering his family to do so, as we shall that of erecting a monument for him.  Long before
his death we had, by a letter signed by us all, assured him that the dear relatives, in England
and France, should have their pensions continued as though he were living, and that Mrs. Carey,
as a widow, should have Rs. 100 monthly, whatever Mackintosh's house might yield her."

Twenty-two years before, when Chamberlain was complaining because of the absence of stone,
or brick, or inscription in the mission burial-ground, Carey had said, "Why should we be remembered?
I think when I am dead the sooner I am forgotten the better."  Dr. Johns observed that it is
not the desire of the persons themselves but of their friends for them, to which Carey replied,
"I think of others in that respect as I do of myself."  When his second wife was taken from
him, his affection so far prevailed that he raised a memorial stone, and in his will left this
"order" to Mack and William Robinson, his executors: "I direct that my funeral be as plain
as possible; that I be buried by the side of my second wife, Charlotte Emilia Carey; and that
the following inscription and nothing more may be cut on the stone which commemorates her,
either above or below, as there may be room, viz.:--

WILLIAM CAREY, BORN AUGUST 17, 1761; DIED

  A wretched, poor, and helpless worm,
  On Thy kind arms I fall."

The surviving brethren seem to have taken the small oblong stone, with the inscription added
as directed, and to have placed it on the south side of the domed square block of brick and
white plaster--since renewed from time to time--which stands in the left corner of the God's-acre,
now consecrated by the mingled dust of four generations of missionaries, converts, and Christian
people. Ward's monument stands in the centre, and that of the Marshman family at the right
hand.  Three and a half years afterwards Joshua Marshman followed Carey; not till 1847 was
Hannah Marshman laid beside him, after a noble life of eighty years.  Mack had gone the year
before, cut off by cholera like Ward. But the brotherhood cannot be said to have ended till
John Marshman, C.S.I., died in London in 1877.  From first to last the three families contributed
to the cause of God from their own earnings, ninety thousand pounds, and the world would never
have known it but for the lack of the charity that envieth not on the part of Andrew Fuller's
successors.

Carey's last will and testament begins: "I utterly disclaim all or any right or title to the
premises at Serampore, called the mission premises, and every part and parcel thereof; and
do hereby declare that I never had, or supposed myself to have, any such right or title.  I
give and bequeath to the College of Serampore the whole of my museum, consisting of minerals,
shells, corals, insects, and other natural curiosities, and a Hortus Siccus; also the folio
edition of Hortus Woburnensis, which was presented to me by Lord Hastings; Taylor's Hebrew
Concordance, my collection of Bibles in foreign languages, and all my books in the Italian
and German languages."  His widow, Grace, who survived him a short time, had the little capital
that was hers before her marriage to him, and he desired that she would choose from his library
whatever English books she valued.  His youngest son, Jonathan, was not in want of money. 
He had paid Felix and William Rs. 1500 each in his lifetime. In order to leave a like sum to
Jabez, he thus provided: "From the failure of funds to carry my former intentions into effect,
I direct that my library be sold."  In dying as in living he is the same--just to others because
self-devoted to Him to whom he thus formally willed himself, "On Thy kind arms I fall."

The Indian journals rang with the praises of the missionary whose childlike humility and sincerity,
patriotism and learning, had long made India proud of him.  After giving himself, William Carey
had died so poor that his books had to be sold to provide £187 10s. for one of his sons.  One
writer asserted that this man had contributed "sixteen lakhs of rupees" to the cause of Christ
while connected with the Serampore Mission, and the statement was everywhere repeated.  Dr.
Marshman thereupon published the actual facts, "as no one would have felt greater abhorrence
of such an attempt to impose on the Christian public than Dr. Carey himself, had he been living."
At a time when the old Sicca Rupee was worth half a crown, Carey received, in the thirty-four
and a half years of his residence at Serampore, from the date of his appointment to the College
of Fort William, £45,000.[35] Of this he spent £7500 on his Botanic Garden in that period.
If accuracy is of any value in such a question, which has little more than a curious biographical
interest, then we must add the seven years previous to 1801, and we shall find that the shoemaker
of Hackleton received in all for himself and his family £600 from the Society which he called
into existence, and which sent him forth, while he spent on the Christianisation and civilisation
of India £1625 received as a manufacturer of indigo; and £45,000 as Professor of Sanskrit,
Bengali, and Marathi, and Bengali Translator to Government, or £46,625 in all.

"It is possible," wrote Dr. Marshman, "that if, instead of thus living to God and his cause
with his brethren at Serampore, Dr. Carey had, like the other professors in the college, lived
in Calcutta wholly for himself and his family, he might have laid by for them a lakh of rupees
in the thirty years he was employed by Government, and had he been very parsimonious, possibly
a lakh and a half.  But who that contrasts the pleasures of such a life with those Dr. Carey
enjoyed in promoting with his own funds every plan likely to plant Christianity among the natives
around him, without having to consult any one in thus doing, but his two brethren of one heart
with him, who contributed as much as himself to the Redeemer's cause, and the fruit of which
he saw before his death in Twenty-six Gospel Churches planted in India within a surface of
about eight hundred miles, and above Forty labouring brethren raised up on the spot amidst
them--would not prefer the latter?  What must have been the feelings on a deathbed of a man
who had lived wholly to himself, compared with the joyous tranquillity which filled Carey's
soul in the prospect of entering into the joy of his Lord, and above all with what he felt
when, a few days before his decease, he said to his companion in labour for thirty-four years:
'I have no fears; I have no doubts; I have not a wish left unsatisfied.'"

In the Danish Church of Serampore, and in the Mission Chapel, and afterwards in the Union Chapel
of Calcutta, Dr. Marshman and Mr. Mack preached sermons on William Carey.  These and the discourse
delivered in Charlotte Chapel, Edinburgh, on the 30th of November, by Christopher Anderson,
were the only materials from which a just estimate of Carey and his work could be formed for
the next quarter of a century.  All, and especially the last, were as worthy of their theme
as éloges pronounced in such circumstances could be.  Marshman spoke from the text chosen by
Carey himself a few weeks before his death as containing the foundation of his hope and the
source of his calm and tranquil assurance--"For by grace are ye saved."  Mack found his inspiration
again, as he had done in the Bengali village, in Paul's words--"David, after he had served
his own generation, by the will of God fell on sleep."  The Edinburgh preacher turned to the
message of Isaiah wherewith Carey used to comfort himself in his early loneliness, and which
the Revised Version renders--"Look unto Abraham your father; for when he was but one I called
him and I blessed him and made him many." And in Bombay the young contemporary missionary who
most nearly resembled Carey in personal saintliness, scholarship, and self-devotion, John Wilson,
thus wrote:--

"Dr. Carey, the first of living missionaries, the most honoured and the most successful since
the time of the Apostles, has closed his long and influential career.  Indeed his spirit, his
life, and his labours, were truly apostolic...The Spirit of God which was in him led him forward
from strength to strength, supported him under privation, enabled him to overcome in a fight
that seemed without hope.  Like the beloved disciple, whom he resembled in simplicity of mind,
and in seeking to draw sinners to Christ altogether by the cords of love, he outlived his trials
to enjoy a peaceful and honoured old age, to know that his Master's cause was prospering, and
that his own name was named with reverence and blessing in every country where a Christian
dwelt. Perhaps no man ever exerted a greater influence for good on a great cause.  Who that
saw him, poor and in seats of learning uneducated, embark on such an enterprise, could ever
dream that, in little more than forty years, Christendom should be animated with the same spirit,
thousands forsake all to follow his example, and that the Word of Life should be translated
into almost every language and preached in almost every corner of the earth?"

As the Founder and Father of Modern Missions, the character and career of William Carey are
being revealed every year in the progress, and as yet, the purity of the expansion of the Church
and of the English-speaking races in the two-thirds of the world which are still outside of
Christendom.  The £13:2:6 of Kettering became £400,000 before he died, and is now £5,000,000
a year.  The one ordained English missionary is now a band of 20,000 men and women sent out
by 558 agencies of the Reformed Churches.  The solitary converts, each with no influence on
his people, or country, or generation, are now a community of 3,000,000 in India alone, and
in all the lands outside of Christendom 5,000,000, of whom 80,000 are missionaries to their
own countrymen, and many are leaders of the native communities.  Since the first edition of
the Bengali New Testament appeared at the beginning of the century 250,000,000 of copies of
the Holy Scriptures have been printed, of which one half are in 370 of the non-English tongues
of the world.  The Bengali School of Mudnabati, the Christian College of Serampore, have set
in motion educational forces that are bringing nations to the birth, are passing under Bible
instruction every day more than a million boys and girls, young men and maidens of the dark
races of mankind.

The seventh Earl of Shaftesbury, the greatest and most practical Evangelical of the nineteenth
century after William Wilberforce, wrote thus in his Journal of the class whom Carey headed
in the eighteenth, and whom Wordsworth commemorated as

  "Not sedentary all, there are who roam
  To scatter seeds of Life on barbarous shores."

1847. "Aug. 30th--RYDE.--Reading Missionary Enterprises by Williams...Zeal, devotion, joy,
simplicity of heart, faith, love; and we here have barely affection enough to thank God that
such deeds have been done.  Talk of 'doing good' and being 'useful in one's generation,' why,
these admirable men performed more in one month than I or many others shall perform in a whole
life!"

The eloquent Dr. Richard Winter Hamilton, reflecting that sacrifice to heroes is reserved until
after sunset, recalled William Carey, eight years after his death, as "wielding a power to
which all difficulties yielded, but that power noiseless as a law of nature; great in conception
as well as in performance; profound as those deep combinations of language in which the Indian
philosophy and polytheism hide themselves, but gentle as the flower which in his brief recreation
he loved to train; awful as the sage, simple as the child; speaking through the Eastern world
in as many languages, perhaps, as 'the cloven tongues of fire' represented; to be remembered
and blessed as long as Ganges rolls!"

The historian of the Baptist Missionary Society, and Robert Hall, whom Sir James Mackintosh
pronounced the greatest English orator, have both attempted an estimate of Carey's genius and
influence. Dr. F. A. Cox remarks:--"Had he been born in the sixteenth century he might have
been a Luther, to give Protestantism to Europe; had he turned his thought and observations
merely to natural philosophy he might have been a Newton; but his faculties, consecrated by
religion to a still higher end, have gained for him the sublime distinction of having been
the Translator of the Scriptures and the Benefactor of Asia." Robert Hall spoke thus of Carey
in his lifetime:--"That extraordinary man who, from the lowest obscurity and poverty, without
assistance, rose by dint of unrelenting industry to the highest honours of literature, became
one of the first of Orientalists, the first of Missionaries, and the instrument of diffusing
more religious knowledge among his contemporaries than has fallen to the lot of any individual
since the Reformation; a man who unites with the most profound and varied attainments the fervour
of an evangelist, the piety of a saint, and the simplicity of a child."

Except the portrait in London and the bust in Calcutta, no memorial, national, catholic, or
sectarian, marks the work of Carey.  That work is meanwhile most appropriately embodied in
the College for natives at Serampore, in the Lall Bazaar chapel and Benevolent Institution
for the poor of Calcutta.  The Church of England, which he left, like John Wesley, has allowed
E. S. Robinson, Esq., of Bristol, to place an inscription, on brass, in the porch of the church
of his native village, beside the stone which he erected over the remains of his father, Edmund,
the parish clerk:--"To the Glory of God and in memory of Dr. Wm. Carey, Missionary and Orientalist."
Yet we, nigh a century after he went forth with the Gospel to Hindostan, may venture to place
him where the Church History of the future is likely to keep him--amid the uncrowned kings
of men who have made Christian England what it is, under God, to its own people and to half
the human race.  These are Chaucer, the Father of English Verse; Wyclif the Father of the Evangelical
Reformation in all lands; Hooker, the Father of English Prose; Shakspere, the Father of English
Literature; Milton, the Father of the English Epic; Bunyan, the Father of English Allegory;
Newton, the father of English Science; Carey, the Father of the Second Reformation through
Foreign Missions.

APPENDIX

I.--CHARTER OF INCORPORATION OF SERAMPORE COLLEGE

WE, Frederick the Sixth, by the Grace of God King of Denmark, the Venders and Gothers, Duke
of Slesvig Holsten, Stormarn, Ditmarsken, Limessborg and Oldenborg, by writings these make
known and publicly declare, that whereas William Carey and Joshua Marshman, Doctors of Divinity,
and John Clark Marshman, Esq., inhabitants of our town of Fredericksnagore (or Serampore) in
Bengal, being desirous of founding a College to promote piety and learning particularly among
the native Christian population of India, have to secure this object erected suitable buildings
and purchased and collected suitable books, maps, etc., and have humbly besought us to grant
unto them and such persons as shall be elected by them and their successors to form the Council
of the College in the manner to be hereafter named, our Royal Charter of Incorporation that
they may the more effectually carry into execution the purposes above-mentioned:--We, being
desirous to encourage so laudable an undertaking, have of our special grace and free motion
ordained, constituted, granted and declared, and by the presents We do for ourselves, our heirs
and successors ordain, constitute, grant and declare:

1. That the said William Carey, Joshua Marshman and John Clark Marshman, and such other person
or persons as shall successively be elected and appointed the Council of the said College,
in the manner hereafter mentioned, shall by virtue of the presents be for ever hereafter one
body politic and incorporate by the name of the Serampore College for the purposes aforesaid
to have perpetual succession and to have a common seal, and by the said name to sue and be
sued, to implead and be impleaded, and to answer and be answered unto in every court and place
belonging to us, our heirs and successors.

2. And We do hereby ordain, constitute and declare that the persons hereby incorporated and
their successors shall for ever be competent in law to purchase, hold and enjoy for them and
their successors any goods and chattels whatsoever and to receive, purchase, hold and enjoy,
they and their successors, any lands, tenements or hereditaments whatever, and that they shall
have full power and authority to sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of any real or personal
property to be by them acquired as aforesaid, unless the sale or alienation of such property
be specially prohibited by the donor or donors thereof, and to do all things relating to the
said College or Corporation in as ample a manner or form as any of our liege subjects, or any
other body politic or corporate in our said kingdom or its dependencies may or can do.

3. And We do hereby ordain, grant and declare that the number of Professors, Fellows or Student
Tutors and Students, shall be indefinite and that the said William Carey, Joshua Marshman and
John Clark Marshman, shall be the first Council of the said College, and that in the event
of its appearing to them necessary during their life-time, or in the case of the death of any
one of the three members of the said first Council, the survivors or survivor shall and may
under their respective hands and seals appoint such other person or persons to be members of
the Council of the College, and to succeed each other so as to become Members of the said Council
in the order in which they shall be appointed, to the intent that the Council of the said College
shall for ever consist of at least three persons.

4. And We do hereby further ordain, grant and declare, that for the better government of the
said College, and the better management of its concerns, the said William Carey, Joshua Marshman
and John Clark Marshman, the members of the first Council, shall have full power and authority
for the space of ten years from the date of these presents, to make and establish such statutes
as shall appear to them useful and necessary for the government of the said College, in which
statutes they shall define the powers to be entrusted to their successors, to the Professors,
the Fellows or Student Tutors and the other Officers thereof, and the duties to be performed
by these respectively for the management of the estates, lands, revenues and goods--and of
the business of the said College, and the manner of proposing, electing, admitting and removing
all and every one of the Council, the Professors, the Fellows or Tutors, the officers, the
students and the servants thereof, and shall make and establish generally all such other statutes
as may appear to them necessary for the future good government and prosperity of the said College,
provided that these statutes be not contrary to the laws and statutes of our realm.

5. And we do hereby further ordain, grant and declare, that the statutes thus made and established
by the said three members of the first Council, and given or left in writing under their respective
hands, shall be valid and in full force at the expiration of ten years from the date of these
presents, so that no future Council of the College shall have power to alter, change or vary
them in any manner whatever and that the statutes shall for ever be considered the constitution
of the said College.  And we do hereby appoint and declare that these statutes shall be made
and established by the said William Carey, Joshua Marshman and John Clark Marshman alone, so
that in case either of them should die before the expiration of ten years, the power of completing
or perfecting these statutes shall devolve wholly on the survivors or survivor; and that in
case all three of them should die before the expiration of ten years, the statutes which they
have left in writing under their hands, or under the hand of the last survivor among them shall
be considered "The Fundamental Statutes and Constitution of Serampore College," incapable of
receiving either addition or alteration, and shall and may be registered in our Royal Court
of Chancery as "The Statutes and Constitution of Serampore College."

6. And We do hereby further appoint, grant and declare that from and after the completion of
the statutes of the said College in the above said time of ten years, the said Council of the
College shall be deemed to consist of a Master or President and two or four members who may
be Professors or otherwise as the Statutes may direct so that the said Council shall not contain
less than three, nor more than five persons, as shall be defined in the Statutes. The Council
shall ever be elected as the Statutes of the College may direct, yet the said Master or President
shall always previously have been a Member of the said College; and upon the decease of the
said Master or President, the Council of the said College shall be unable to do any act or
deed until the appointment of a new Master or President, save and except the appointment of
such a Master.

7.  And We do hereby further appoint, grant and declare, that after the expiration of the said
ten years, the said Council of the College and their successors for ever shall have power to
make and establish such orders and bye-laws as shall appear to them useful and necessary for
the government of the said College, and to alter, suspend or repeal those already made, and
from time to time make such new ones in their room as shall appear to them most proper and
expedient provided the same be not repugnant to the Statutes of the College, or to the laws
of our realm, and that after the expiration of these ten years any member of the Council shall
have power to move the enactment of any new bye-law, or the alteration, suspension or repeal
of any existing one provided notice of such motion shall have been delivered in writing to
the Master and read from the Chair at one previous meeting of the Council of the said College,
but that no such motion shall be deemed to have passed in the affirmative, until the same shall
have been discussed and decided by ballot at another meeting summoned especially for that purpose,
a majority of the members then present having voted in the affirmative; and in this, as in
all other cases, if the votes be equal, the Master or President shall have the casting vote.

Given at our Royal Palace in Copenhagen on the twenty-third day of February, in the year of
our Lord one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven, in the nineteenth year of our reign.

Under our Royal Hand and Seal.

FREDERICK R.

II.--STATUTES AND REGULATIONS OF SERAMPORE COLLEGE

June 12th, 1833.

1. Article the Third of the Charter granted by his Danish Majesty, having authorised the first
Council of Serampore College in their lifetime to nominate under their hand and seal such other
person or persons for colleagues or successors as may to them appear most proper, so that the
Council shall always consist of at least three persons, their successors in the Council shall
be competent in like manner to nominate in their lifetime, under their separate hand and seal,
such person or persons as they may deem most proper to fill vacancies then existing or which
may occur on their demise; members thus nominated and chosen shall succeed to the Council in
order of their nomination.

2. It being fixed in the Charter that the Council must consist of the Master or President and
at least two, but no more than four Members, and that on the demise of the Master no act shall
be done until another be elected, the Master and Council for the time being shall appoint the
next Master under their separate hand and seal. If on the demise of a Master no one be found
thus appointed under the hand and seal of a majority of the Council, the Senior Member of the
Council shall succeed as Master.

3. The Charter having given the casting vote to the Master, in all cases when the votes are
equal the casting vote shall lie with the Master, and if there be no Master, it shall lie with
the Senior Member of the Council.

4. Learning and piety being peculiar to no denomination of Christians, one member of the Council
may at all times be of any other denomination besides the Baptist, to preserve the original
design of the Institution; however, if on the election of a Master a number of the Council
be equally divided, that part which is entirely of the Baptist denomination shall have the
casting vote, whether it includes the Master or not.

5. The management of the College, including its revenues and property, the choice of Professor
and Tutors, the admission of Students, the appointment of all functionaries and servants, and
the general order and government of the College, shall ever be vested in the Master and the
Council.  The Master shall see that the Statutes and Regulations of the Council be duly carried
into effect, and take order for the good government of the College in all things.  His signature
is necessary to the validity of all deeds, instruments, documents and proceedings.

6. "The first Council and their successor for ever" being authorised by the Charter "to confer
such degrees of rank and honour as shall encourage learning" in the same manner as other Colleges
and Universities, they shall from time to time confer degrees in such branches of Knowledge
and Science as may be studied there, in the same manner as the Universities in Denmark, Germany
and Great Britain.  In doing this the Master and Council shall ad libitum call in the aid of
any or all the Professors of Serampore College.  All such degrees shall be perfectly free of
expense to the person on whom they may be conferred, whether he be in India, Europe or America.

7. No oaths shall be administered in Serampore College, either to the Members of Council, the
Professors and Tutors, or the Students. In all cases a solemn promise, duly recorded and signed
by the party, shall be accepted instead of an oath.

8. Marriage shall be no bar to any office or situation in Serampore College, from that of the
Master to that of the lowest student.

9. The salaries of the Professors and Tutors in Serampore College shall be appointed, and the
means of support for all functionaries, students and servants be regulated by the Council in
such manner as shall best promote the objects of the Institution.

10. It is intended that neither the Master nor any Member of the Council in general shall receive
any salary.  But any Master who may not previously reside in the College shall have a residence
there free of rent for himself and his family.  And if the Council shall elect any one in Europe
or in America, whom they deem eminent for learning and piety, a Member of the Council, with
a view to choosing him Master, should they on trial deem him worthy, the Council shall be competent
to appoint him such salary as they may deem necessary, not exceeding, however, the highest
given to a Professor.

11. As the founders of the College deem the belief of Christ's Divinity and Atonement essential
to vital Christianity, the promotion of which is the grand object of this Institution, no one
shall be eligible to the College Council or to any Professorship who is known to oppose these
doctrines, and should any one of the Professors or any member of the Council unhappily so change
his views after his election as to oppose these fundamental doctrines of Christianity, on this
being clearly and decidedly proved from his teaching or his writings, he shall vacate the office
he previously held.  But every proceeding of this nature on the part of the College Council
shall be published to the Christian world, with the proofs on which it may rest, as an Appendix
to the succeeding Report.

12. Members of the Council are eligible from among the Professors of the College, or from among
any in India, Europe, or America whom the College Council may deem suitable in point of learning,
piety, and talent.

13. Students are admissible at the discretion of the Council from any body of Christians, whether
Protestant, Roman Catholic, the Greek, or the Armenian Church; and for the purpose of study,
from the Mussulman and Hindu youth, whose habits forbid their living in the College.  No caste,
colour, or country shall bar any man from admission into Serampore College.

14. Expulsion shall be awarded in cases of open immorality, incorrigible idleness, neglect
of the College Statutes and regulations, or repeated disobedience to the officers of the College.

15. Any person in India, Europe, or America shall be at liberty to found any Professorship,
or to attach to Serampore College any annual exhibition or prize for the encouragement of learning
in the same manner as in the Universities of Great Britain, regulating such endowment according
to their own will; and it shall be duty of the College Council to carry such benefactions into
effect in strict consonance with the will of the donors as far as shall be consistent with
the Statutes of the College.

16. It shall be lawful for the first Council of the College or their successors to make and
rescind any bye-laws whatever, provided they be not contrary to these Statutes.

17. The Charter having declared that the number of the Professors and students in Serampore
College remains unlimited, they shall be left thus unlimited, the number to be regulated only
by the gracious providence of God and the generosity of the public in India, Europe and America.

FOOTNOTES

[1] Iphicrates, great Athenian general, who was the son of a shoemaker, used this saying, fit
motto for Carey, ex oiôn eis oia.

[2] The shopmate, William Manning, preserved this signboard.  In 1881 we found a Baptist shoemaker,
a descendant of Carey's wife, with four assistants, at work in the shed.  Then an old man,
who had occasionally worked under Carey, had just died, and he used to tell how Carey had once
flipped him with his apron when he had allowed the wax to boil over.

[3] In the library of the late Rev. T. Toller of Kettering was a manuscript (now in the library
of Bristol Baptist College) of nine small octavo pages, evidently in the exquisitely small
and legible handwriting of Carey, on the Psalter.  The short treatise discusses the literary
character and authorship of the Psalms in the style of Michaelis and Bishop Lowth, whose writings
are referred to.  The Hebrew words used are written even more beautifully than the English.
If this little work was written before Carey went to India--and the caligraphy seems to point
to that--the author shows a very early familiarity with the writings of one who was his predecessor
as a Christian Orientalist, Sir William Jones.  The closing paragraph has this sentence:--"A
frequent perusal of the book of Psalms is recommended to all.  We should permit few days to
pass without reading in Hebrew one of those sacred poems; the more they are read and studied,
the more will they delight, edify, and instruct."

[4] Twice reprinted, in Leicester, and in London (1892) in facsimile.

[5] Wealth of Nations, Book IV., Chap. VII.

[6] Mr. Thomas Haddon of Clipstone writes: "I recollect when I was about ten years old, at
my father's house; it was on a Saturday, Carey was on his way to Arnsby (which is twenty miles
from Moulton) to supply there the following Sabbath; he had then walked from Moulton to Clipstone,
a distance of ten miles, and had ten miles further to walk to Arnsby.  My honoured father had
been intimately acquainted with him for some years before, and he pressed him to stay and take
an early cup of tea before he went further.  I well recollect my father saying to him, 'I suppose
you still work at your trade?' (which was that of an army and navy shoemaker).  Mr. Carey replied:
'No, indeed, I do not; for yesterday week I took in my work to Kettering, and Mr. Gotch came
into the warehouse just as I had emptied my bag.  He took up one of the shoes and said, "Let
me see, Carey, how much do you earn a week?"  I said, "About 9s., sir."  Mr. Gotch then said:
"I have a secret to tell you, which is this: I do not intend you should spoil any more of my
leather, but you may proceed as fast as you can with your Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, and I will
allow you from my own private purse 10s. a week!"  With that sum and about 5s. a week which
I get from my people at Moulton, I can make a comfortable living' (although at that time he
had a wife and three children to provide for)."

[7] Farewell Letters on Returning to Bengal in 1821.

[8] Rev. A. T. Clarke succeeded Kiernander in 1789 in the Old or Mission Church, according
to Miss Blechynden's Calcutta Past and Present (1905), p. 84.

[9] At this time, and up to 1801, the last survivor of the Black Hole tragedy was living in
Calcutta and bore his own name, though the missionary knew it not.  Mrs. Carey was a country-born
woman, who, when a girl, had married an officer of one of the East Indiamen, and with him,
her mother, and sister, had been shut up in the Black Hole, where, while they perished, she
is said to have retained life by swallowing her tears.  Dr. Bishop, of Merchant Taylors' School--Clive's
School--wrote Latin verses on the story, which thus conclude--

         "...Nescit sitiendo perire
  Cui sic dat lacrymas quas bibat ipsa fides."
  --See Echoes from Old Calcutta, by Dr. Busteed, C.I.E.

