"But let us return to Dionysius. His idea of making the year begin on the 25th of December
was thought to be rather too inconvenient, and so the old commencement on the first day of
January was retained, as the Romans had arranged it. But the plan of Dionysius was carried
out with regard to the numbers by which the years were to be named and called. Thus the year
which had been known as 754 became, under the new system, the year 1. And the succession of
years from that year 1 is called the Christian era. To get the numbers of its years you have
only to subtract 753 from the years in the Roman numbering."

"If we add 753," said Joe, "to 1880, will we get the number of years since old Rome was founded
by Romulus and Remus?"

"Yes," said the Professor; "the rule works both ways. There is, however, some uncertainty as
to whether the Romans themselves were correct in regard to the age of their city. Very early
dates are hard to settle."

"Where did the months get their names?" asked May, "and how did months come to be thought of
at all?"

"The months were suggested by the moon. In most languages the word month is very nearly like
moon, as you see it is in ours. From new moon around to new moon again is about twenty-nine
days, which is nearly the length of a month. The exact time between two new moons is a very
puzzling problem. It always involves a troublesome fraction of a day, and is, in fact, never
twice alike. So it was found convenient to divide the year into twelve parts, nearly equal,
and to call each one a month."

"Why didn't they make them just equal?" asked Gus.

"To do so would have made it necessary to split up some of the days, which would have been
awkward. If you divide the 365 days of the year by twelve, there will be five remaining."

"How was it found out that the year had 365 days in it?" asked Joe.

"It took the astronomers to do that," said the Professor; "and until nations became civilized
enough to study astronomy accurately, they did not know the number of days in the year. This,
however, did not prevent them from being able to count the years, because they could know that
every time summer or winter came, a year had passed since the last summer or winter. But now
the length of the year--that is, the time occupied by the earth in going completely round the
sun--is known within a fraction of a second."

"Was it worth while to go into it so precisely?" asked May. "Would it not have been enough
to know the number of the days?"

"By no means," said the Professor. "For then the calendar could not have been regulated so
that the months and festivals would keep pace with the seasons. If 365 days had been constantly
taken for a year, Christmas, instead of staying in the winter, would long since have moved
back through autumn into summer, and so on. In about 1400 years it would travel through the
entire circle of the seasons, as it would come some six hours earlier every year than it did
the last. In like manner the Fourth of July would gradually fall back into spring, then into
winter; and the fire-works would have to be set off in the midst of a snow-storm. The old Romans
saw the difficulty; and, to prevent it, Julius Cæsar added an extra day to every fourth year,
which you see is the same thing as adding one-fourth of a day to each year, only it is much
more convenient. This was done because the earth requires nearly 365-1/4 days to move round
the sun. The year that receives the extra day is called, as you know, leap-year. But even this
did not keep the calendar exactly right. In the course of time other changes had to be made,
the greatest of which was in 1582, when Pope Gregory XIII. decreed that ten entire days should
be dropped out of the month of October. This was called the change from Old to New Style."

"It was rather stupid," said Gus, "to shorten the pleasantest month in the whole year. I would
have clipped December or March."

"Please don't forget to tell us," said May, "how the months got their names."

"The first six of them were called after the heathen deities, Janus, Februus, Mars, Aphrodite,
Maia, and Juno; July was named after Julius Cæsar, the inventor of leap-year; August after
Augustus the Emperor. The names of the last four months simply mean seventh, eighth, ninth,
and tenth."

"But," said Joe, "December is not the tenth month, nor is September the seventh."

"That is true," said the Professor; "but those names are supposed to have been given by Romulus,
who arranged a year of only ten months, and made it begin with March. His year only had 304
days in it, and was soon found to be much too short. So the months of January and February
were added, and instead of being placed at the end, they came in some way to stand at the beginning."

"Now please tell us about the names of the days of the week, and we will not ask any more questions."

"They were called after the sun, moon, and five planets known to the ancients, Mars, Mercury,
Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn. You easily recognize sun, moon, and Saturn, Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday are from names given by some of the Northern tribes of Europe to Mars, Jupiter,
and Venus. Mercury's day seems scarcely at all connected with his name, but comes from Wodin,
who was imagined to be chief among the gods of those barbarous tribes."

TOMMY'S VALENTINE.

BY MRS. M. D. BRINE.

  He was only a little street sweeper, you know,
    Barefooted, and ragged as one could be;
  But blue were his eyes as the far-off skies,
    And a brave-hearted laddie was Tommy Magee.
  But it chanced on the morning of Valentine's Day
    Our little street sweeper felt lonely and sad;
  "For there's no fun," thought he, "for a fellow like me,
    And a valentine's something that I never had."

  But he flourished his broom, and the crossing made clean
    For the ladies and gentlemen passing his way;
  And he gave them a smile, singing gayly the while,
    In honor, of course, of St. Valentine's Day.
  Now it happened a party of bright little girls,
    All dainty and rosy, and brimming with glee,
  Came over the crossing, a careless glance tossing
    To poor little barefooted Tommy Magee.

  But all of a sudden then one of them turned,
    And running to Tommy, thrust into his hand,
  With a smile and a blush, and the whispered word "Hush,"
    A beautiful valentine. You'll understand
  How Tommy stood gazing, with wondering eyes,
    After the group of wee ladies so fine,
  As with joy without measure he held his new treasure;
    And this is how Tommy got his valentine.

LOST IN THE SNOW.

Among the dangers of the winter in the Pass of St. Gothard is the fearful snow-storm called
the "guxeten" by the Germans, and the tourmente or "tormenta" by the Swiss. The mountain snow
differs in form, as well as in thickness and specific gravity, from the star-shaped snow-flakes
on the lower heights and in the valleys. It is quite floury, dry, and sandy, and therefore
very light. When viewed though a microscope it assumes at times the form of little prismatic
needles, at other times that of innumerable small six-sided pyramids, from which, as from the
morning star, little points jut out on all sides, and which, driven by the wind, cut through
the air with great speed. With this fine ice-dust of the mountain snow, the wind drives its
wild game through the clefts of the high Alps and over the passes, particularly that of St.
Gothard. Suddenly it tears up a few hundred thousand cubic feet of this snow, and whirls it
up high into the air, leaving it to the mercy of the upper current, to fall to the ground again
in the form of the thickest snow-storm, or to be dispersed at will like glittering ice-crystals.
At times the wind sweeps up large tracts of the dry ice-dust, and pours them down upon a deep-lying
valley amid the mountains, or on to the summit of the passes, obliterating in a few seconds
the laboriously excavated mountain road, at which a whole company of rutners have toiled for
days. All these appearances resemble the avalanches of other Alps, but can not be regarded
in the same light as the true snow-storm, the tormenta or guxeten. This is incomparably more
severe, and hundreds on hundreds of lives have fallen sacrifices to its fury. These have mostly
been travelling strangers, who either did not distinguish the signs of the coming storm, or,
in proud reliance on their own power, refused to listen to well-meant warnings, and continued
their route. Almost every year adds a large number of victims to the list of those who have
fallen a prey to the snow-storm.

History and the oral tradition of the mountains record many incidents of accidents which have
been occasioned by the fall of avalanches. During the Bellinzona war, in 1478, as the confederates,
with a force of 10,000 men, were crossing the St. Gothard, the men of Zürich were preceding
the army as van-guard. They had just refreshed themselves with some wine, and were marching
up the wild gorge, shouting and singing, in spite of the warnings of their guides. Then, in
the heights above, an avalanche was suddenly loosened, which rushed down upon the road, and
in its impetuous torrent buried sixty warriors far below in the Reuss, in full sight of those
following.

On the 12th of March, 1848, in the so-called Planggen, above the tent of shelter at the Mätelli,
thirteen men who were conveying the post were thrown by a violent avalanche into the bed of
the Reuss, with their horses and sledges. Three men, fathers of families, and nine horses were
killed; the others were saved by hastily summoned help. But one of their deliverers, Joseph
Müller, of Hospenthal, met a hero's death while engaged in the rescue. He had hastened to help
his neighbors, but in the district called the "Harness" he and two others were overwhelmed
by a second violent avalanche, and lost their lives. In the same year the post going up the
mountain from Airola was overtaken by an avalanche near the house of shelter at Ponte Tremola.
A traveller from Bergamo was killed; the rest escaped.

History tells of a most striking rescue from an avalanche on the St. Gothard. In the year 1628,
Landamman Kaspar, of Brandenburg, the newly chosen Governor of Bellenz, was riding over the
St. Gothard from Zug, accompanied by his servant and a faithful dog. At the top of the pass
the party was overtaken by an avalanche which descended from the Lucendro. The dog alone shook
himself free. His first care was to extricate his master. But when he saw that he could not
succeed in doing this, he hastened back to the hospice, and there, by pitiful howling and whining,
announced that an accident had happened. The landlord and his servants set out immediately
with shovels and pickaxes, and followed the dog, which ran quickly before them. They soon reached
the place where the avalanche had fallen. Here the faithful dog stopped suddenly, plunged his
face into the snow, and began to scratch it up, barking and whining. The men set to work at
once, and after a long and difficult labor succeeded in rescuing the Landamman, and soon afterward
his servant. They were both alive, after spending thirty-six fearful hours beneath the snow,
oppressed by the most painful thoughts. They had heard the howling and barking of the dog quite
plainly; and had noticed his sudden departure, and the arrival of their deliverers; they had
heard them talking and working, without being able to move or utter a sound. The Landamman's
will ordained that an image of the faithful dog should be sculptured at his feet on his tomb.
This monument was seen till lately in St. Oswald's Church, at Zug.

THE STORY OF GRANDMA, LORENZO, AND THE MONKEY.

BY MRS. A. M. DIAZ.

The children told the Family Story-Teller they did not believe he could make a story about
a grandma going to mill. "Especially," said the children's mother, "a grandma troubled with
rheumatism."

Family Story-Teller smiled, as much as to say, "You shall see," took a few minutes to think,
and began:

       *       *       *       *       *

In Grandma Stimpcett's trunk was a very small, leathery, beady bag, and in this bag was a written
recipe for the Sudden Remedy--a sure cure for rheumatism, sprains, bruises, and all lamenesses.
The bag and the recipe were given her by an Indian woman. To make the Sudden Remedy, grandma
got roots, herbs, barks, twigs, leaves, mints, moss, and tree gum. These were scraped, grated,
or pounded; sifted, weighed, measured, stewed, and stirred; and the juice simmered down with
the oil of juniper, and bumble-bees' wax, and various smarty, peppery, slippery things whose
names must be kept private for a particular reason. The Sudden Remedy cured her instantly;
and as meal was wanted, and no other person could be spared from the place, she offered to
go to mill.

She went in the vehicle--an old chaise which had lost its top--taking with her her bottle of
the Sudden Remedy, in case, as Mr. Stimpcett said, the rheumatism should return before she did.

"Shall you be back by sunset?" asked Mr. Stimpcett, as he fastened the bag underneath the vehicle.

"Oh yes," said she; "I shall eat dinner at Debby's, and come away right after dinner. You will
see me back long before sunset." Her daughter Debby lived at Mill Village.

Mr. Stimpcett shook his head. "I don't know about that," said he.

"If I am not back before sunset," said she, "I will give you--give you five hundred dollars."

The people laughed at this; for all the money grandma had was only about twenty dollars, put
away in case of need.

Now when grandma had driven perhaps two miles on her way to mill, she stopped at a farm-house
to water her horse; and here something curious happened. A woman came to the door of the house,
and the next moment a large boy, named Lorenzo, hopped out on one foot and two canes, and began
stumping about the yard at a furious rate, cackling, crowing, and barking.

"That's the way he does when he can't sit still any longer," said the woman. "He has to sit
still a great deal, on account of a lame knee, which is a pity," said she, "for a spry fellow
like him; a good, true-spoken fellow he is, too." The woman then told how he lamed his knee.

Lorenzo said he wanted very much the use of his legs that day, because there was to be a circus
just beyond Mill Village. He said he wanted to go to the circus so much he did not know what
to do. He said he began when he was four years old to go to circuses, and he had been to every
circus that had come around since. "Now this circus is only a little more than two miles off,"
said he, "and here I am cooped up like a hoppled horse."

Grandma smiled, and took out the bottle. "This bottle," said she, "contains the Sudden Remedy--a
quick cure for rheumatism, sprains, bruises, and all lamenesses. Rub on with a flannel, and
rub in briskly."

Lorenzo rubbed on with a flannel, and rubbed in briskly, and then seated himself upon a stone
to hear the stories grandma and the woman were telling of people who had been upset, or thrown
from horses, or had fallen over stone walls, into wells, or down from trees, rocks, house-tops,
or chamber windows. Lorenzo told some stories, and at last, in acting out one, he thrust forward
his lame leg, without thinking of it, and found it was no longer lame. He tried it again; he
sprang up; he stepped; he walked; he leaped; he skipped; he ran; he hurrahed; he flung his
canes away.

Grandma then invited Lorenzo to ride with her to Mill Village, near which the circus was to
be; and he quickly took a seat in the vehicle, and having no time to put on his best clothes,
he put on only his best hat, tipping it one side in order to give himself a little of a dressed-up
look.

When grandma and Lorenzo reached Mill Village, Lorenzo got out at a pea-nut stand, and grandma
drove on to her daughter Debby's. She had just stepped from the vehicle when Lorenzo came running
to beg that she would bring her Sudden Remedy to the miller's house, for the miller had been
taken that morning with the darting rheumatism, and the mill was not running, and people were
waiting with their corn.

Lorenzo drove grandma to the miller's house, and in two hours' time the miller was in the mill,
the wheel turning, and the corn grinding--grandma's corn among the rest.

Something which was very important to the circus will now be told. The Chief Jumper--the one
who was to do the six wonderful things--lamed his foot the night before, and could not jump.
Now when the man who owned the circus was looking at the Chief Jumper's foot, a circus errand-boy
in uniform passed by. This errand-boy had been to the mill to get corn for the circus horses,
and he told the man who owned the circus that a woman had just cured the miller of the darting
rheumatism, and told the name of the medicine.

The circus owner took one of the circus riding wagons and the errand-boy in uniform and set
off immediately to find the woman who had the Sudden Remedy, and found grandma at her daughter
Debby's, just stepping into the vehicle to go home. Lorenzo was there, fastening the bag of
meal securely under the vehicle. The circus owner offered grandma five dollars if she would
go and cure his Chief Jumper, and as there was time to do that and reach home before sunset,
she went, Lorenzo driving her in the vehicle. The circus owner and the errand-boy in uniform
kept just in front of them, and some children who knew no better said that that kind-looking
old lady and the great boy belonged to the circus, and had their circus clothes in the bag
underneath.

Grandma was taken into a tent which led out of the big tent, where she saw the Chief Jumper
in full jumping costume, and the Dwarf, and the Fat Man, and the Clown, and the Flying Cherub;
and the Remedy worked so well that the Chief Jumper thought he might jump higher than ever before.

The Clown led grandma to the cage where monkeys were kept, and asked her if she would be willing
to cure a poor suffering monkey whose leg had been hurt by a stone thrown by a cruel boy. Grandma
said, certainly, for that she pitied even an animal that had to suffer pain. The Clown then
took the monkey, and held its paw while grandma patted its head and stroked its back, and poured
on the Remedy, the Flying Cherub standing near by to see what was to be done.

The circus owner invited grandma to stay to the circus; but as she had not time, he paid her
eight dollars, and led her to the vehicle.

Now we are coming to the most wonderful part of my story. People going home from mill had told
the tale of the miller's cure, and on her way back grandma was stopped by various people, who
begged her to come into their houses and cure rheumatism, sprains, bruises, and other lamenesses.
This took a great deal of time; but the kind-hearted old lady was so anxious to ease pain that
she forgot all about her promise to Mr. Stimpcett, and when she reached home it was ten minutes
past sunset.

Three buggies stood near Mr. Stimpcett's house. Grandma thought they were doctors' buggies.
"Oh dear!" she said to herself, "something dreadful must be the matter!" She counted the children
playing at the door-step. They were all there--Moses, Obadiah, Deborah, and little Cordelia.

At this moment Mr. Stimpcett came forward and said to grandma that three gentlemen had come,
one after another, and had each asked to have a private talk with her. There was a large fleshy
man in the front room, a chubby little man in the kitchen, and a sleek, long-faced man in the
spare chamber.

Grandma talked with these, one at a time. They were all medicine sellers. Each one wished to
buy the recipe for making the Sudden Remedy, and would pay a good price for it. For they knew
that thousands and thousands of barrels of this Remedy could be sold all over the United States,
Mexico, Canada, and Central America, and enormous sums of money made by the sale.

The summer boarder, Mr. St. Clair, said that the man who would pay the most money for it ought
to have the recipe. Grandma brought from her trunk the small, leathery, beady bag which contained
the recipe, and Mr. St. Clair stood in the vehicle, held up the bag, and said: "Bid! gentlemen,
bid! How much do I have for it?"

The bidding was interrupted by a Jumper. It was a circus Jumper, but not the Chief Jumper.
While the people were all looking at Mr. St. Clair, a monkey sprang from the meal bag underneath
the vehicle and jumped upon grandma's shoulder, nearly knocking her over. It was the same one
she had cured. On account of his lameness, he had been loosely tied, and from a feeling of
thankfulness, no doubt, for being cured, he had run away and followed grandma.

The Stimpcett children--Moses, Obadiah, Deborah, and little Cordelia--shouted and capered so
that the selling of the recipe could hardly go on; but at last it was sold, leathery, beady
bag and all, to the sleek, long-faced man, for nine hundred dollars, of which grandma gave
five hundred to Mr. Stimpcett, according to the promise she made before going to mill.

The circus people were written to, but as they did not send for Jacko, he was kept for the
children, to play with. Mrs. Stimpcett dressed him in a pretty suit of clothes, with a cap
and feather on his head. He showed much affection for grandma, followed her about daytimes
both in-doors and out, and would sleep nowhere at night but at the foot of her bed, where a
bandbox was at last placed for him. The children loved him dearly; but poor Jacko did so much
mischief in trying to knit, and to cook, and to weed the garden, that it was finally declared
that something must be done about that monkey; and grandma gave him to Lorenzo, with money
enough to buy a grand harmonica.

Lorenzo came for the monkey toward the close of a calm summer's day, and fed him with frosted
cake, which caused him to feel pleased with Lorenzo. There was a string fastened to his collar;
Lorenzo took the string in one hand, and some frosted cake in the other, and led Jacko away.
The children--Moses, and Obadiah, and Deborah, and little Cordelia--following on for quite
a distance, all weeping.

Lorenzo went about for some time with a circus company. Evenings he staid inside the big tent
to see the doings, and daytimes he had a two-cent side-show in a small tent of his own, where
the monkey played wonderful tricks, and marched to the music of the grand harmonica.

At last he came to grandma, and told her that as for the Clown, he was a kind-hearted, sensible
man, but that the others were commonly either drunk, or cross, or both, and that he had to
travel nights, wet or dry, and that he was sick of that kind of life. He sold the monkey to
a hand-organ man, and went back to live in his old home; and the last that was known of Jacko
he was seen in the streets of a town carrying round the hand-organ man's hat for pennies.

It was grandma and Mr. Stimpcett who saw him, as they were riding past in the vehicle; and
he saw them, and gave a bound, and broke his string, and leaped into the vehicle, and clasped
his paws round grandma's neck; and the hand-organ man was obliged to place six maple-sugar
cakes in a row upon the sidewalk before Jacko would return to him.

The sleek, long-faced man made his fortune by selling the Sudden Remedy, but few of those who
bought it and took it knew what old lady it was who sold him the recipe for it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Family Story-Teller's next was a story of mistakes, and odd mistakes they were.

THE CHILDREN'S WEDDING.

It very often happens that children of royal families are by their parents or by wise statesmen
engaged to marry each other almost as soon as they are born, but the actual weddings do not
generally take place until the children are grown up. One of these weddings did, however, actually
take place, a great many years ago, between two children, and the story of it is as follows:

January 15, 1478, was the day appointed, when Richard, Duke of York, second son of Edward IV.,
aged four years, and created already Duke of Norfolk, Earl Warren and Surrey, and Earl Marshal
of England, in right of his intended wife, was to lead to the altar the little girl whose tiny
hand would bestow upon him the immense estates and riches of the Norfolk inheritance.

The little Lady Anne, who was, as an old book informs us, the richest and most noble match
of that time, appears to have been two years older than her intended husband, and must have
reached the advanced age of six years! She does not appear to have objected to the match, but
to have been quite ready to act her part in the pageant, and no doubt the little Duke was eager
to receive the notice and applause of the courtly throng, whilst both children looked with
astonishment at the sumptuous preparations, and the costly splendor of their own and the spectators'
dresses.

The ceremony began by the high and mighty Princess, as the little bride was called in the formal
language of the day, being brought in great state and in solemn procession to the King's great
chamber at Westminster Palace. This took place the day before the wedding, on the 14th of January.
The bride, splendidly dressed, most probably in the bridal robes of white cloth of gold, a
mantle of the same bordered with ermine, and with her hair streaming down her back, and confined
to her head by the coronet of a duchess, was led by the Earl of Rivers, the bridegroom's uncle.
She was followed, of course, by her mother, and by the noblest of the court ladies of rank,
and the gentlewomen of her household, whilst behind came dukes, earls, and barons, all in attendance
on the little bride.

As soon as she had arrived in the lofty hall of Westminster Palace she was led to the dais,
or place of estate, as it was called, where, under a canopy, and seated on a chair of estate,
or kind of throne, she kept her estate, i. e., sat in royal pomp with the King, Queen, and
their children seated on either hand, whilst her procession of peers and peeresses stood around
and waited upon her. Refreshments were then brought "according to the form and estate of the
realm," which must have been a very wearisome and formal ceremony for a little girl of six
years old, and which ended that day's ceremony.

On the 15th the Princess came out of the Queen's rooms, where she had slept, and led on one
hand by the Earl of Lincoln, nephew to the King, and on the other by the Earl of Rivers, she
passed through the King's great chamber in the palace into the White Hall, and from there to
St. Stephen's Chapel. She was followed by a long suite of ladies and gentlewomen. Meanwhile
the little bridegroom, the Queen, and a noble procession of lords and gentlemen, had already
entered the chapel and taken up their places on the seats appointed for them, ready to receive
and welcome the bride. There were also present the King and the Prince of Wales, the King's
mother, and the three Princesses who acted as bridemaids, Elizabeth, Mary, and Cecily.

