Of the residence of Ferdinando in the island for thirty years, ample evidence exists in various
documents. Sir Robert Schomburgk was shewn by the rector of the parish, the Rev. J.H. Gittens,
an old vestry-book of St John's, in which various entries occur of the name of Ferdinando Palæologus,
from 1649 till 1669, as vestryman, churchwarden, trustee, surveyor of the highway, sidesman
to the churchwarden, and lieutenant, &c. The last entry is that of his burial, 'October 3d
1678.' His name also appears in a legal document respecting the sale of some land, executed
in 1658. But the most important evidence of his identity with the Cornwall family is his will,
in which the names of his sisters, Maria and Dorothy, occur. It was entered in the Registrar's
Office, the 20th of March 1678, and proved before the deputy-governor, Colonel Christopher
Codrington. The widow became the sole survivor and heiress of the property, Theodorious having
died in his youth, so that the last of the Palæologi reposes in the parish church of St John,
in the island of Barbadoes; and the estate which once belonged to the descendant of the Greek
emperors now forms part of Clifton Hall and the Plantation Ashford. Laying these circumstances
together, and considering how completely the will of Ferdinando corroborates the Landulph inscription,
of which he probably knew nothing, the genealogical problem, we think, is fairly wrought out,
and the last of the descendants of the Roman Cæsars traced to his final resting-place beyond
the Atlantic. A curious anecdote is mentioned by Sir Robert Schomburgk as to the revival of
the tradition of one of the Palæologi being in Barbadoes. He says, but without vouching for
its truth, that during the last conflict for Grecian independence and deliverance from the
Turkish yoke, a letter was received from the provisional government at Athens, addressed to
the authorities in Barbadoes, inquiring whether a male branch of the Palæologi was still existing
in the island, and conveying the request that if such were the case he should be provided with
the means of returning to Greece, and the government would, if required, pay all the expenses
of the voyage. This story was not current in Europe, at all events; and we on this side the
water never dreamed that among the competitors of King Leopold for the throne was a veritable
scion of the old imperial sovereigns of Constantinople.

The events detailed in the preceding narrative are fitted to suggest various interesting reflections
and amusing speculations. The fate of the Palæologi--one day on a throne, the next in a dungeon,
passing from regal state to wretched exile--may have been the bitter lot of other imperial
families. If we find the descendants of the Greek emperors in the humble occupation of sailors
and churchwardens, and vestrymen and road-trustees, there is nothing extravagant in the supposition,
that we may have royal porters and scavengers on our streets, the sceptre having degenerated
into the besom, and the truck taken the place of the chariot of state. The family of Nimrod
may still exist, and retain their ancestral propensities in the craft of sportsmen and deer-stalkers,
or in the lower grade of Jehus and jockeys. Who knows but the posterity of Solomon may be retailing
old clothes, and the heirs of the Nebuchadnezzar dynasty still exist somewhere--perhaps among
our graziers or cattle-dealers, our keepers of dairies or secretaries of agricultural associations.
The line of Tamerlane may have ended in a grave-digger, and that of Frederick Barbarossa in
a hair-dresser. The ideal transmigration of Pythagoras was not more improbable or more wonderful
than the strange metamorphoses through which, in the course of centuries, the living representatives
of kings and emperors are sometimes doomed to pass.

