Above all, even if you allow that this organization is necessary, why do you believe it to
be your duty to maintain it at the cost of your best feelings?  Who has made you the nurse
in charge of this sick and moribund organization?  Not society nor the state nor anyone; no
one has asked you to undertake this; you who fill your position of landowner, merchant, tzar,
priest, or soldier know very well that you occupy that position by no means with the unselfish
aim of maintaining the organization of life necessary to men's happiness, but simply in your
own interests, to satisfy your own covetousness or vanity or ambition or indolence or cowardice.
If you did not desire that position, you would not be doing your utmost to retain it.  Try
the experiment of ceasing to commit the cruel, treacherous, and base actions that you are constantly
committing in order to retain your position, and you will lose it at once.  Try the simple
experiment, as a government official, of giving up lying, and refusing to take a part in executions
and acts of violence; as a priest, of giving up deception; as a soldier, of giving up murder;
as landowner or manufacturer, of giving up defending your property by fraud and force; and
you will at once lose the position which you pretend is forced upon you, and which seems burdensome
to you.

A man cannot be placed against his will in a situation opposed to his conscience.

If you find yourself in such a position it is not because it is necessary to anyone whatever,
but simply because you wish it.  And therefore knowing that your position is repugnant to your
heart and your head, and to your faith, and even to the science in which you believe, you cannot
help reflecting upon the question whether in retaining it, and above all trying to justify
it, you are doing what you ought to do.

You might risk making a mistake if you had time to see and retrieve your fault, and if you
ran the risk for something of some value.  But when you know beyond all doubt that you may
disappear any minute, without the least possibility either for yourself or those you draw after
you into your error, of retrieving the mistake, when you know that whatever you may do in the
external organization of life it will all disappear as quickly and surely as you will yourself,
and will leave no trace behind, it is clear that you have no reasonable ground for running
the risk of such a fearful mistake.

It would be perfectly simple and clear if you did not by your hypocrisy disguise the truth
which has so unmistakably been revealed to us.

Share all that you have with others, do not heap up riches, do not steal, do not cause suffering,
do not kill, do not unto others what you would not they should do unto you, all that has been
said not eighteen hundred, but five thousand years ago, and there could be no doubt of the
truth of this law if it were not for hypocrisy. Except for hypocrisy men could not have failed,
if not to put the law in practice, at least to recognize it, and admit that it is wrong not
to put it in practice.

But you will say that there is the public good to be considered, and that on that account one
must not and ought not to conform to these principles; for the public good one may commit acts
of violence and murder.  It is better for one man to die than that the whole people perish,
you will say like Caiaphas, and you sign the sentence of death of one man, of a second, and
a third; you load your gun against this man who is to perish for the public good, you imprison
him, you take his possessions.  You say that you commit these acts of cruelty because you are
a part of the society and of the state; that it is your duty to serve them, and as landowner,
judge, emperor, or soldier to conform to their laws. But besides belonging to the state and
having duties created by that position, you belong also to eternity and to God, who also lays
duties upon you.  And just as your duties to your family and to society are subordinate to
your superior duties to the state, in the same way the latter must necessarily be subordinated
to the duties dictated to you by the eternal life and by God.  And just as it would be senseless
to pull up the telegraph posts for fuel for a family or society and thus to increase its welfare
at the expense of public interests, in the same way it is senseless to do violence, to execute,
and to murder to increase the welfare of the nation, because that is at the expense of the
interests of humanity.

Your duties as a citizen cannot but be subordinated to the superior obligations of the eternal
life of God, and cannot be in opposition to them.  As Christ's disciples said eighteen centuries
ago: "Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge
ye" (Acts iv. 19); and, "We ought to obey God rather than men" (Acts v. 29).

It is asserted that, in order that the unstable order of things, established in one corner
of the world for a few men, may not be destroyed, you ought to commit acts of violence which
destroy the eternal and immutable order established by God and by reason.  Can that possibly be?

And therefore you cannot but reflect on your position as landowner, manufacturer, judge, emperor,
president, minister, priest, and soldier, which is bound up with violence, deception, and murder,
and recognize its unlawfulness.

I do not say that if you are a landowner you are bound to give up your lands immediately to
the poor; if a capitalist or manufacturer, your money to your workpeople; or that if you are
Tzar, minister, official, judge, or general, you are bound to renounce immediately the advantages
of your position; or if a soldier, on whom all the system of violence is based, to refuse immediately
to obey in spite of all the dangers of insubordination.

If you do so, you will be doing the best thing possible.  But it may happen, and it is most
likely, that you will not have the strength to do so.  You have relations, a family, subordinates
and superiors; you are under an influence so powerful that you cannot shake it off; but you
can always recognize the truth and refuse to tell a lie about it.  You need not declare that
you are remaining a landowner, manufacturer, merchant, artist, or writer because it is useful
to mankind; that you are governor, prosecutor, or tzar, not because it is agreeable to you,
because you are used to it, but for the public good; that you continue to be a soldier, not
from fear of punishment, but because you consider the army necessary to society.  You can always
avoid lying in this way to yourself and to others, and you ought to do so; because the one
aim of your life ought to be to purify yourself from falsehood and to confess the truth.  And
you need only do that and your situation will change directly of itself.

There is one thing, and only one thing, in which it is granted to you to be free in life, all
else being beyond your power: that is to recognize and profess the truth.

And yet simply from the fact that other men as misguided and as pitiful creatures as yourself
have made you soldier, tzar, landowner, capitalist, priest, or general, you undertake to commit
acts of violence obviously opposed to your reason and your heart, to base your existence on
the misfortunes of others, and above all, instead of filling the one duty of your life, recognizing
and professing the truth, you feign not to recognize it and disguise it from yourself and others.

