Two ships, the RECHERCHE and the ESPERANCE, were selected and placed under the command of Dentrecasteaux.
He had already had some experience in a part of the region to be searched, had been a governor
of Ile-de-France, and during a South Sea voyage had named the cluster of islands east of Papua
now called the D'Entrecasteaux Group. The second ship was placed under the command of Captain
Huon Kermadec. The Huon River in Tasmania, and the Kermadec Islands, N.E. of New Zealand, are
named after him.

Fleurieu again drew up the instructions, and based them largely upon the letter from Laperouse
quoted above, pointing out that remains of him would most probably be found in the neighbourhood
of coasts which he had intended to explore. It was especially indicated that there was, south
of New Holland, an immense stretch of coastline so far utterly unknown. "No navigator has penetrated
in that part of the sea; the reconnaissances and discoveries of the Dutch, the English and
the French commenced at the south of Van Diemen's Land."

Thus, for the second time, was a French navigator directed to explore the southern coasts of
Australia; and had Dentrecasteaux followed the plan laid down for him he would have forestalled
the discoveries of Grant, Bass and Flinders, just as Laperouse would have done had his work
not been cut short by disaster.

It has to be remembered that the instructions impressed upon Dentrecasteaux that his business
primarily was not geographical discovery, but to get news of his lost compatriots. But even
so, is it not curious that the French should have been concerned with the exploration of Southern
Australia before the English thought about it; that they should have had two shots at the task,
planned with knowledge and care, officially directed, and in charge of eminently competent
navigators; but that nevertheless their schemes should have gone awry? They made a third attempt
by means of Baudin's expedition, during the Napoleonic Consulate, and again were unsuccessful,
except in a very small measure. It almost seems as if some power behind human endeavours had
intended these coasts for British finding--and keeping.

The full story of Dentrecasteaux' expedition has not yet been told. Two thick books were written
about it, but a mass of unpublished papers contain details that were judiciously kept out of
those volumes. When the whole truth is made known, it will be seen that the bitter strife which
plunged France in an agony of blood and tears was not confined to the land.

The ships did not visit Sydney. Why not? It might have been expected that an expedition sent
to discover traces of Laperouse would have been careful to make Botany Bay in the first instance,
and, after collecting whatever evidence was available there, would have carefully followed
the route that he had proposed to pursue. But it would seem that an European settlement was
avoided. Why? The unpublished papers may furnish an answer to that question.

Neither was the south coast of Australia explored. That great chance was missed. Some excellent
charting--which ten years later commanded the cordial admiration of Flinders--was done by Beautemps-Beaupre,
who was Dentrecasteaux' cartographer, especially round about the S.W. corner of the continent.
Esperance Bay, in Western Australia, is named after one of the ships of this expedition. But
from that corner, his ships being short of fresh water, Dentrecasteaux sailed on a direct line
to Southern Tasmania, and thence to New Zealand, New Caledonia, and New Guinea. Touch with
the only European centre in these parts was--apparently with deliberation--not obtained.

Dentrecasteaux died while his ships were in the waters to the north of New Guinea. He fell
violently ill, raving at first, then subsiding into unconsciousness, a death terrible to read
about in the published narrative, where the full extent of his troubles is not revealed. Kermadec,
commander of the ESPERANCE, also died at New Caledonia. After their decease the ships returned
to France as rapidly as they could. They were detained by the Dutch at Sourabaya for several
months, as prisoners of war, and did not reach Europe till March, 1796. Their mission had been
abortive.

Five French Captains who brought expeditions to Australia at this period all ended in misfortune.
Laperouse was drowned; de Langle was murdered; Dentrecasteaux died miserably at sea; Kermadec,
the fourth, had expired shortly before; and Baudin, the fifth, died at Port Louis on the homeward
voyage.

Nor is even that the last touch of melancholy to the tale of tragedy. There was a young poet
who was touched by the fate of Laperouse. Andre Chenier is now recognised as one of the finest
masters of song who have enriched French literature, and his poems are more and more studied
and admired both by his own countrymen and abroad. He planned and partly finished a long poem,
"L'Amerique," which contains a mournful passage about the mystery of the sea which had not
then been solved. A translation of the lines will not be attempted here; they are mentioned
because the poet himself had an end as tragic, though in a different mode, as that of the hero
of whom he sang. He came under the displeasure of the tyrants of the Red Terror through his
friends and his writings, and in March, 1794, the guillotine took this brilliant young genius
as a victim.

  J'accuserai les vents et cette mer jalouse
  Qui retient, qui peut-etre a ravi Laperouse

so the poem begins. How strangely the shadow of Tragedy hangs over this ill-starred expedition;
Louis XVI the projector, Laperouse and de Langle the commanders, Dentrecasteaux and Kermadec
the searchers, Andre Chenier the laureate: the breath of the black-robed Fury was upon them all!

Chapter IX.

CAPTAIN DILLON'S DISCOVERY.

The navigators of all nations were fascinated by the mystery attaching to the fate of Laperouse.
Every ship that sailed the Pacific hoped to obtain tidings or remains. From time to time rumours
arose of the discovery of relics. One reported the sight of wreckage; another that islanders
had been seen dressed in French uniforms; another that a cross of St. Louis had been found.
But the element of probability in the various stories evaporated on investigation. Flinders,
sailing north from Port Jackson in the INVESTIGATOR in 1802, kept a sharp lookout on the Barrier
Reef, the possibility of finding some trace being "always present to my mind." But no definite
news came.

A new French voyage of exploration came down to the Pacific in 1817, under the command of Louis
de Freycinet, who had been a lieutenant in Baudin's expedition in 1800-4. The purpose was not
chiefly to look for evidence concerning Laperouse, though naturally a keen scrutiny was maintained
with this object in view.

An extremely queer fact may be mentioned in connection with this voyage. The URANIE carried
a woman among the crew, the only one of her sex amidst one hundred men. Madame de Freycinet,
the wife of the commandant, joined at Toulon, dressed as a ship's boy, and it was given out
in the newspapers that her husband was very much surprised when he found that his wife had
managed to get aboard in disguise. But Arago, one of the scientific staff, tells us in his
Memoirs, published in 1837, that--as we can well believe--Freycinet knew perfectly who the
"young and pretty" boy was, and had connived at her joining the ship as a lad, because she
wanted to accompany her husband, and the authorities would have prevented her had they known.
She continued to wear her boy's dress until after the ships visited Gibraltar, for Arago informs
us that the solemn British Lieutenant-Governor there, when he saw her, broke into a smile,
"the first perhaps that his features had worn for ten years." If that be true, the little lady
surely did a little good by her saucy escapade. But official society regarded the lady in trousers
with a frigid stare, so that henceforth she deemed it discreet to resume feminine garments.
It does not appear that she passed for a boy when the expedition visited Sydney, and of course
no hint of Madame's presence is given in the official history of the voyage.

We now reach the stage when the veil was lifted and the mystery explained. In 1813 the East
India Company's ship HUNTER, voyaging from Calcutta to Sydney, called at the Fiji Islands.
They discovered that several Europeans were living on one of the group. Some had been shipwrecked;
some had deserted from vessels; but they had become accustomed to the life and preferred it.
The HUNTER employed a party of them to collect sandal wood and beche-de-mer, one of her junior
officers, Peter Dillon, being in charge. A quarrel with natives occurred, and all the Europeans
were murdered, except Dillon, a Prussian named Martin Bushart, and a seaman, William Wilson.
After the affray Bushart would certainly have been slain had he remained, so he induced the
captain of the HUNTER to give him a passage to the first land reached. Accordingly Bushart,
a Fiji woman who was his wife, and a Lascar companion, were landed on Barwell Island, or Tucopia.

Thirteen years later Peter Dillon was sailing in command of his own ship, the ST. PATRICK,
from Valparaiso to Pondicherry, when he sighted Tucopia. Curiosity prompted him to stop to
enquire whether his old friend Martin Bushart was still alive. He hove to, and shortly after
two canoes put off from the land, bringing Bushart and the Lascar, both in excellent health.

Now, Dillon observed that the Lascar sold an old silver sword guard to one of the ST. PATRICK'S
crew in return for a few fish hooks. This made him inquisitive. He asked the Prussian where
it came from. Bushart informed him that when he first arrived at the island he saw in possession
of the natives, not only this sword guard, but also several chain plates, iron bolts, axes,
the handle of a silver fork, some knives, tea cups, beads, bottles, a silver spoon bearing
a crest and monogram, and a sword. He asked where these articles were obtained, and the natives
told him that they got them from the Mannicolo (or Vanikoro) cluster of islands, two days'
canoe voyage from Tucopia, in the Santa Cruz group.

"Upon examining the sword minutely" wrote Dillon, "I discovered, or thought I discovered, the
initials of Perouse stamped on it, which excited my suspicion and made me more exact in my
inquiries. I then, by means of Bushart and the Lascar, questioned some of the islanders respecting
the way in which their neighbours procured the silver and iron articles. They told me that
the natives of Mannicolo stated that many years ago two large ships arrived at their islands;
one anchored at the island of Whanoo, and the other at the island of Paiou, a little distance
from each other. Some time after they anchored, and before they had any communication with
the natives, a heavy gale arose and both vessels were driven ashore. The ship that was anchored
off Whanoo grounded upon the rocks.

"The natives came in crowds to the seaside, armed with clubs, spears, and bows and arrows,
and shot some arrows into the ship, and the crew in return fired the guns and some musketry
on them and killed several. The vessel, continuing to beat violently against the rocks, shortly
afterwards went to pieces. Some of the crew took to their boats, and were driven on shore,
where they were to a man murdered on landing by the infuriated natives. Others threw themselves
into the sea; but if they reached the shore it was only to share the fate of their wretched
comrades, so that not a single soul escaped out of this vessel."

The ship wrecked on Paiou, according to the natives' story, was driven on a sandy beach. Some
arrows were fired into her, but the crew did not fire. They were restrained, and held up beads,
axes, and toys, making a demonstration of friendliness. As soon as the wind abated, an old
chief came aboard the wrecked ship, where he was received in friendly fashion, and, going ashore,
pacified his people. The crew of the vessel, compelled to abandon her, carried the greater
part of their stores ashore, where they built a small boat from the remains of the wreck. As
soon as this craft was ready to sail, as many as could conveniently be taken embarked and sailed
away. They were never heard of again. The remainder of the crew remained on the island until
they died.

Such was the information collected by Captain Peter Dillon in 1826. He took away with him the
sword guard, but regretted to learn that the silver spoon had been beaten into wire by Bushart
for making rings and ornaments for female islanders.

When he reached Calcutta, Dillon wrote an account of his discovery in a letter to the government
of Bengal, and suggested that he should be sent in command of an expedition to search the Vanikoro
cluster in the hope of finding some old survivor of Laperouse's unhappy company, or at all
events further remains of the ships. He had prevailed upon Martin Bushart to accompany him
to India, and hoped, through this man's knowledge of the native tongue, to elicit all that
was to be known.

The Government of British India became interested in Dillon's discovery, and resolved to send
him in command of a ship to search for further information. At the end of 1826 he sailed in
the RESEARCH, and in September of the following year came within sight of the high-peaked island
Tucopia. The enquiries made on this voyage fully confirmed and completed the story, and left
no room for doubt that the ships of Laperouse had been wrecked and his whole company massacred
or drowned on or near Vanikoro. Many natives still living remembered the arrival of the French.
Some of them related that they thought those who came on the big ships to be not men but spirits;
and such a grotesque bit of description as was given of the peaks of cocked hats exactly expressed
the way in which the appearance of the strangers would be likely to appeal to the native imagination:--"There
was a projection from their foreheads or noses a foot long."

Furthermore, Dillon's officers were able to purchase from the islands such relics as an old
sword blade, a rusted razor, a silver sauce-boat with fleur-de-lis upon it, a brass mortar,
a few small bells, a silver sword-handle bearing a cypher, apparently a "P" with a crown, part
of a blacksmith's vice, the crown of a small anchor, and many other articles. An examination
of natives brought out a few further details, as for example, a description of the chief of
the strangers, "who used always to be looking at the stars and the sun and beckoning to them,"
which is how a native would be likely to regard a man making astronomical observations. Dillon,
in short had solved the forty years' mystery. The Pacific had revealed her long-held secret.

It happened that a new French expedition in the ASTROLABE, under the command of Dumont-D'Urville,
was in the southern hemisphere at this time. While he lay at Hobart on his way to New Zealand,
the captain heard of Dillon's discoveries, and, at once changing his plans, sailed for the
Santa Cruz Islands. He arrived there in February, 1828, and made some valuable finds to supplement
those of the English captain. At the bottom of the sea, in perfectly clear water, he saw lying,
encrusted with coral, some remains of anchors, chains, guns, bullets, and other objects which
had clearly belonged to the ships of Laperouse. One of his artists made a drawing of them on
the spot. They were recovered, and, together with Dillon's collection, are now exhibited in
a pyramid at the Marine Museum at the Louvre in Paris, in memory of the ill-fated commander
and crew who perished, martyrs in the great cause of discovery, a century and a quarter ago.

It is interesting to note that descendants of Captain Dillon are residents of Sydney to this day.

Chapter X.

THE FAME OF LAPEROUSE.

Intellectually, and as a navigator, Laperouse was a son of James Cook, and he himself would
have rejoiced to be so described. The allusions to his predecessor in his writings are to be
numbered by scores, and the note of reverent admiration is frequently sounded. He followed
Cook's guidance in the management of his ships, paying particular attention to the diet of
his crews. He did not succeed in keeping scurvy at bay altogether, but when the disease made
its appearance he met it promptly by securing fresh vegetable food for the sufferers, and was
so far successful that when he arrived in Botany Bay his whole company was in good health.

The influence of the example and experience of Cook may be illustrated in many ways, some of
them curious. We may take a point as to which he really had little to fear; but he knew what
had occurred in Cook's case and he was anxious that the same should not happen to him. The
published story of Cook's first South Sea Voyage, as is well known, was not his own. His journal
was handed over to Dr. Hawkesworth, a gentleman who tried to model his literary style on that
of Dr. Johnson, and evolved a pompous, big-drum product in consequence.  Hawkesworth garnished
the manly, straightforward navigator's simple and direct English with embellishments of his
own. Where Cook was plain Hawkesworth was ornate; where Cook was sensible Hawkesworth was silly;
where Cook was accurate, Hawkesworth by stuffing in his own precious observations made the
narrative unreliable, and even ridiculous. In fact, the gingerbread Johnson simply spoiled Cook.

Dr. Johnson was by no means gratified by the ponderous prancings of his imitator.

Laperouse knew this, and was very anxious that nobody in France should Hawkesworthify him.
He did not object to being carefully edited, but he did not want to be decorated. He wrote
excellent French narrative prose, and his work may be read with delight. Its qualities of clarity,
picturesqueness and smoothness, are quite in accord with the fine traditions of the language.
But, as it was likely that part of the history of his voyage might be published before his
return, he did not want it to be handed over to anybody who would trick it out in finery, and
he therefore wrote the following letter:

"If my journal be published before my return, let the editing of it by no means be entrusted
to a man of letters; for either he will sacrifice to the turn of a phrase the proper terms
which the seaman and man of learning would prefer, but which to him will appear harsh and barbarous;
or, rejecting all the nautical and astronomical details, and endeavouring to make a pleasing
romance, he will for want of the knowledge his education has not allowed him to acquire, commit
mistakes which may prove fatal to those who shall follow me. But choose an editor versed in
the mathematical sciences, who is capable of calculating and comparing my data with those of
other investigators, of rectifying errors which may have escaped me, and of guarding himself
against the commission of others. Such an editor will preserve the substance of the work; will
omit nothing that is essential; will give technical details the harsh and rude, but concise
style of a seaman; and will well perform his task in supplying my place and publishing the
work as I would have done it myself."

