It may fairly be borne in mind of this child Ab that he was somewhat different from the child
of to-day, and nearer the quadruped in his manner of swift development. The puppy though delinquent
in the matter of opening it's eyes, waddles clumsily upon its legs very early in its career.
Ab, of course, had his eyes open from the beginning, and if the babe of to-day were to stand
upright as soon as Ab did, his mother would be the proudest creature going and his father,
at the club, would be acting intolerable. It must be admitted, though, that neither One-Ear
nor Red-Spot manifested an extraordinary degree of enthusiasm over the precociousness of their
first-born. He was not, for the time, remarkable, and parents of the day were less prone than
now to spoiling children. Ab's layette had been of beech leaves, his bed had been of beech
leaves, and a beech twig, supple and stinging, had already been applied to him when he misbehaved
himself. As he grew older his acquaintance with it would be more familiar. Strict disciplinarians
in their way, though affectionate enough after their own fashion, were the parents of the time.

The existence of this good family of the day continued without dire misadventure. Ab at nine
years of age was a fine boy. There could be no question about that. He was as strong as a young
gibbon, and, it must be admitted, in certain characteristics would have conveyed to the learned
observer of to-day a suggestion of that same animal. His eyes were bright and keen and his
mouth and nose were worth looking at. His nose was broad, with nostrils aggressively prominent,
and as for his mouth, it was what would be called to-day excessively generous in its proportions
for a boy of his size. But it did not lack expression. His lips could quiver at times, or become
firmly set, and there was very much of what might, even then, be called "manliness" in the
general bearing of the sturdy little cave child. He had never cried much when a babe--cave
children were not much addicted to crying, save when very hungry--and he had grown to his present
stature, which was not very great, with a healthfulness and general manner of buoyancy all
the time. He was as rugged a child of his age as could be found between the shore that lay
long leagues westward of what is now the western point of Ireland and anywhere into middle
Europe. He had begun to have feelings and hopes and ambitions, too. He had found what his surroundings
meant. He had at least done one thing well. He had made well-received advances toward a friend;
and a friend is a great thing for a boy, when he is another boy of about the same age. This
friendship was not quite commonplace.

Ab, who could climb like a young monkey, laid most casually the foundation for this companionship
which was to affect his future life. He had scrambled, one day, up a tree standing near the
cave, and, climbing out along a limb near its top, had found a comfortable resting-place, and
there upon the swaying bough was "teetering" comfortably, when something in another tree, further
up the river, caught his sharp eye. It was a dark mass,--it might have been anything caught
in a treetop,--but the odd part of it was that it was "teetering" just as he was. Ab watched
the object for a long time curiously, and finally decided that it must be another boy, or perhaps
a girl, who was swaying in the distant tree. There came to him a vigorous thought. He resolved
to become better acquainted; he resolved dimly, for this was the first time that any idea of
further affiliation with anyone had come into his youthful mind. Of course, it must not be
understood that he had been in absolute retirement throughout his young but not uneventful
life. Other cave men and women, sometimes accompanied by their children, had visited the cave
of One-Ear and Red-Spot and Ab had become somewhat acquainted with other human beings and with
what were then the usages of the best hungry society. He had never, though, become really familiar
with anyone save his father and mother and the children which his mother had borne after him,
a boy and a girl. This particular afternoon a sudden boyish yearning came upon him. He wanted
to know who the youth might be who was swinging in the distant tree. He was a resolute young
cub, and to determine was to act.

It was rare, particularly in the wooded districts of the country of the cave men, for a boy
of nine to go a mile from home alone. There was danger lurking in every rod and rood, and,
naturally, such a boy would not be versed in all woodcraft, nor have the necessary strength
of arm for a long arboreal journey, swinging himself along beneath the intermingling branches
of close-standing trees. So this departure was, for Ab, a venture something out of the common.
But he was strong for his age, and traversed rapidly a considerable distance through the treetops
in the direction of what he saw. Once or twice, though, there came exigencies of leaping and
grasping aloft to which he felt himself unequal, and then, plucky boy as he was, he slid down
the bole of the tree and, looking about cautiously, made a dash across some little glade and
climbed again. He had traversed little more than half the distance toward the object he sought
when his sharp ears caught the sound of rustling leaves ahead of him. He slipped behind the
trunk of the tree into whose top he was clambering and then, reaching out his head, peered
forward warily. As he thus ensconced himself, the sound he had heard ceased suddenly. It was
odd. The boy was perplexed and somewhat anxious. He could but peer and peer and remain absolutely
quiet. At last his searching watchfulness was rewarded. He saw a brown protuberance on the
side of a great tree, above where the branches began, not twoscore yards distant from him,
and that brown protuberance moved slightly. It was evident that the protuberance was watching
him as he was watching it. He realized what it meant. There was another boy there! He was not
particularly afraid of another boy and at once came out of hiding. The other boy came calmly
into view as well. They sat there, looking at each other, each at ease upon a great branch,
each with an arm sustaining himself, each with his little brown legs dangling carelessly, and
each gazing upon the other with bright eyes evincing alike watchfulness and curiosity and some
suspicion. So they sat, perched easily, these excellent young, monkeyish boys of the time,
each waiting for the other to begin the conversation, just as two boys wait when they thus
meet today. Their talk would not perhaps be intelligible to any professor of languages in all
the present world, but it was a language, however limited its vocabulary, which sufficed for
the needs of the men and women and children of the cave time. It was Ab who first broke the
silence:

"Who are you?" he said.

"I am Oak," responded the other boy. "Who are you?"

"Me? Oh, I am Ab."

"Where do you come from?"

"From the cave by the beeches; and where do you come from?"

"I come from the cave where the river turns, and I am not afraid of you."

"I am not afraid of you, either," said Ab.

"Let us climb down and get upon that big rock and throw stones at things in the water," said Oak.

"All right," said Ab.

And the two slid, one after the other, down the great tree trunks and ran rapidly to the base
of a huge rock overtopping the river, and with sides almost perpendicular, but with crevices
and projections which enabled the expert youngsters to ascend it with ease. There was a little
plateau upon its top a few yards in area and, once established there, the boys were safe from
prowling beasts. And this was the manner of the first meeting of two who were destined to grow
to manhood together, to be good companions and have full young lives, howbeit somewhat exciting
at times, and to affect each other for joy and sorrow, and good and bad, and all that makes
the quality of being.

CHAPTER V.

A GREAT ENTERPRISE.

What always happens when two boys not yet fairly in their 'teens meet, at first aggressively,
and then, each gradually overcoming this apprehension of the other, decide upon a close acquaintance
and long comradeship? Their talk is firmly optimistic and they constitute much of the world.
As for Ab and Oak, when there had come to them an ease in conversation, there dawned gradually
upon each the idea that, next to himself, the other was probably the most important personage
in the world, fitting companion and confederate of a boy who in an incredibly short space of
time was going to become a man and do things on a tremendous scale. Seated upon the rock, a
point of ease and vantage, they talked long of what two boys might do, and so earnest did they
become in considering their possible great exploits that Ab demanded of Oak that he go with
him to his home. This was a serious matter. It was a no slight thing for a boy of that day,
allowed a playground within certain limits adjacent to his cave home, to venture far away;
but this in Oak's life was a great occasion. It was the first time he had ever met and talked
with a boy of his age, and he became suddenly reckless, assenting promptly to Ab's proposal.
They ran along the forest paths together toward Ab's cave, clucking in their queer language
and utilizing in that short journey most of the brief vocabulary of the day in anticipatory
account of what they were going to do.

