"Take his kit, and set guards and send telegraph descriptions of him in all directions. 'Taint
likely he can get clean away. He'll be a marked man wherever he goes."

"If there is anything I can do to help you," said Mr. Early grandiloquently, "you can command
me, though you may imagine that it is very offensive to me to be mixed up in this kind of affair."

"Well, rather," said the officer dryly. Then, seeing the flush rising on Mr. Early's face,
he went on with the patronage of the majesty of the law: "You needn't fear that you'll suffer
any personal inconvenience. We've had you under surveillance for a long time--ever since we
began to suspect your nigger friend; and we know you are all right." But the assurance seemed
to add to Mr. Early's discomfiture. "Looks as if it was going to blow up a storm. A dark night
would be a good thing for him and a nuisance to us. But we'll catch him sure."

They were gone, and Lena lingered a moment, fastening her dearly-bought bauble around her neck
and gathering her books, while a maid came scudding from the house to bundle rugs and cushions
away in face of the thunder-heads looming in the southwest. A sudden sibilant sound brought
Lena to attention.

"Mrs. Percival!" she heard. "Look up."

Among the branches over her head the leaves were drawn so closely together that only a few
faint glimmers of white showed, and the brilliant eyes that glared down at her were the most
conspicuous things she saw.

"Listen and reply not," he said. "You will bring a dark and large great-coat, and other dark
garments that you can find, and leave them here with swiftness and secrecy. I command you.
If you do not obey, I will make it the worse for you."

He snarled suddenly, and Lena jumped back as though a tiger had sprung at her throat.

The face disappeared among the leaves, and Lena sped toward the house, hastened by a crash
of thunder and a few great drops, that seemed to her frightened imagination like the servants
of the savage creature that she had left in the tree-tops. She slipped out again, in spite
of wind and rain, obedient to his command, and as she dropped her bundle at the foot of the
tree trunk, she whispered,

"I hope, oh, I hope that you will get away!" But she heard no reply. The storm came down and
the night fell, seamed with lightning.

Lena quietly ate her dinner, and listened to the well-bred calm voice of her mother-in-law
as she wondered what Dick was doing, and when he would be at home again. But Lena wondered
what Ram Juna was doing, and whether she should ever see him again.

CHAPTER XX

A LIGHT FROM THE EAST GOES OUT

To be in the heart of a great country, fifteen hundred miles from the Atlantic, and two thousand
miles from the Pacific, to be forbidden the public highway of the train, and to have one's
objective point India,--this is by no means an easy problem, even to the oriental mind. And
who could know what was going on in the being that crept away into the storm, strong with the
instinct of hiding and of cunning. He must have balanced all things. To go westward, where
the great steamers plied toward the Orient, this would seem the natural course; and yet that
way lay interminable prairies and empty stretches, and again deserts and piled mountains, without
shelter and without food. It is easier to hide among people than amid solitudes. On crowded
city streets, we jostle without seeing.

It was no great feat to transform the once Swami of the flowing robes and lofty port into a
hulking skulking negro tramp, like the sturdy villains of ancient days, sleeping in woody nooks
by day, and pursuing his slow journey under the stars, answering the look of such human beings
as he met with suspicion, keeping to the hamlets where police officers were scarce and knowledge
of the criminal world scarcer, and where solitary house-wives, whose men were in the field,
could be persuaded, half through charity and half through fear, to dole out food. Ah, but it
was a weary journey. The world, of whose littleness we boast when we think of steam and electricity,
grows very sizable again when a man comes back to the elemental means of progress--his own
two legs. As for the smaller world in which he had been living--the world of luxury and of
worshiping disciples--he laughed silently to think what a mirage it was and always had been.

Down the Mississippi he crept, sometimes peering from between the great trees that flanked
its steep banks, as the red Indians did long ago, to see the boats of the white man go serenely
up and down that mighty swirling current, and stopping even in his self-absorption to feel
a little of the beauty when the great river spread itself into the shimmering expanse of Lake
Pipin, or to remember, at Winona, the picturesque legend that he had heard of the deserted
Chippewa maiden who here threw herself from the overhanging rocks into the pitiless rush of
waters below, and left only her ghost and her sweet-sounding name to the spot. He halted to
inspect the great monolith, a hundred feet in height, of Sugar Loaf.

He had an idea that in some little town to the south he might venture to board a straggling
cross-country train to Chicago; and, once in the thick of men again, he believed himself safe.
He had always been wary enough to keep on his person a certain sum of money. Such as it was,
it might serve his purpose. It also tickled his sense of humor to think that--shabby black
wayfarer that he was--he had in his pocket a check for five thousand dollars, that he could
not cash, and a handful of rubies that were enough to awaken the suspicions of the least suspicious.
But still, day after day and night after night, he plodded patiently on his way down the water
course, until at last, at Prairie du Chien, two hundred miles from St. Etienne, he felt that
he might comfort his inner man with hot food, and his weary legs with a bed and a pillow. He
prowled along the streets of the country town looking for some cheap lodging-house where such
as he, a humble, cringing, dog-like fellow, might find shelter. He looked through a dusty window
and saw a shaggy-bearded, roughly-dressed man shoveling food with a knife, and he felt that
he had found the right place.

The proprietor of the establishment sat at a small table absorbed in the perusal of a week-old
Sunday newspaper. He growled out a "Guess so. Sausages; baked beans; coffee," to Ram Juna's
polite inquiry. It neither looked nor smelled inviting, but the Hindu submitted to fate and
swallowed a hasty and unpalatable meal.

"Can you tell me where I can get a bed for the night?" he asked, turning to his host.

The evident refinement in his voice made that worthy look up from his literary occupation in
some startled curiosity.

"They ain't many places where they take niggers," he said with an unpleasant grin. "But I guess
you might find a berth at Sally Munn's, if you ain't too particular about morals. She's a merlatter
herself; keeps a place 'bout six houses down, first street to the left." The man stared impudently
as he spoke, but Ram Juna said, "Thank you," with his usual politeness as he went out. The
Hindu noted the impudent stare, but he went away with an indifferent air.

"See here!" said the proprietor to his single other customer, "ain't this picture in the paper
the very image of that black feller that just skipped?"

"Say, it's him!"

"We'd ought to look this up. There's a big reward offered."

While Ram Juna slept, lying in all his day clothes, some subtle subconsciousness kept watch,
became aware of disturbance, and roused his body to attention. He got up, tiptoed to the open
window and looked out at the group of men standing below in the darkness.

"Aw, shut up, Sal," one of them was saying to an angry woman in the doorway. "We ain't goin'
to raid ye, though Lord knows you wouldn't have no kick comin' if we did. What we want is that
black feller that come to-night. We suspect he's one of a gang of counterfeiters that the St.
Etienne police are after; and we ain't goin' to lose the chance of the reward. You fellers
keep right under the window, and I'll take you six up stairs with me. He's big and he may show
fight. Get your guns ready. Don't shoot to kill. We want to deliver him alive. But you needn't
be afraid to use a ball on him."

Ram Juna drew away from the window and smiled his old Buddha smile. With clumsy creaking precautions
they mounted the stair. The moment for the climax came; there was a rush all together, a breaking
down of the shaky door. The crew burst into the room--an empty room--and stared puzzled and
stupefied at the walls and at each other.

"Well, if that don't beat all!" ejaculated the sheriff. "Where in ---- has that fellow disappeared
to?"

"They say," said Josiah Strait, a lank westernized Yankee, "that them Hindu jugglers and lamas,
and so forth, has supernatural gifts, and I begin to believe it."

                 *       *       *       *       *

Something over a month later, Mr. Early burst in on Mr. and Mrs. Percival as they dawdled over
the breakfast-table.

"It's no time to be paying calls, I know," he apologized, "but I've had such a sensation this
morning that I had to come over and share it. Yes, there are times when a man wishes that he
had a wife to talk to!"

"What is it, Early?" Dick asked indifferently.

Mr. Early was waving a bit of paper about in a way quite hysterical.

"Do you see that?" he cried exultantly. "I never expected to see it again, but I declare it
is worth its price. I was going over my bank accounts the first thing this morning and I found it."

"How do you expect us to know what it is when you're fanning it about that way?" Dick demanded.

"It's a check, man, a check for five thousand that I gave Ram Juna the very day of his unceremonious
departure." Lena turned scarlet, and Mr. Early noticed it with fresh glee. "A check I gave
Ram Juna," he repeated. "It's been cashed, with four indorsements, in New Orleans. Now how
did he manage that, tell me. The Swami is one of the great geniuses of the age. Of course I
wanted to see the rascals punished, and it makes me hot to think how they used my house and
all that, but, by Jove! I'm glad they haven't Ram Juna. From New Orleans, a seaport, mind you!
I am willing to make a good-sized bet that he's well on his way to his favorite Himalayas by
this time, ready to meditate on the syllable 'Om' for the rest of his life. Oh, it's too good!
How he must laugh in his sleeve at the rest of the world! But how did he get that check cashed?"

"Well, if I were in your place, I should have it traced back," said Dick, the practical.

"Of course I shall," exclaimed Mr. Early. "Of course I shall. I shall put it in the hands of
the police at once, for I'm sure of one thing, if it helps to root out any sinners, Swami Ram
Juna won't be among them. He's gone for good, take my word for it; and as for the other rascals,
I hope with all my heart they may suffer." He nodded jubilantly at Mrs. Percival, and she flushed
again.

"It's a very good joke, certainly," said Dick, "but rather an expensive one for you, I should
say, Early."

"Oh, I shall get five thousand dollars' worth of satisfaction out of it," Mr. Early went on
enthusiastically. "And I'm proud of the Swami, proud of him. And the splendid simplicity of
him! I was talking yesterday with the detective that ferreted him out. The plunder they found
in my little room was perfectly primitive. He had practically no tools to make the cleverest
counterfeits in years. A deft hand and a wonderful thumb had the Swami."

"What are they going to do with the big ruby in his turban?" asked Lena.

"Oh, that is one of the chief things that I came to tell you about. You, my dear Mrs. Percival,
have especial reason to be interested in this." He turned, brimming with information, to Lena,
"The captain of police took it to Brand's--the jeweler, you know--to be appraised. Now isn't
this the crown of the whole story? Brand tells him that it is paste!"

Dick sat back in his chair and laughed with abandon, and laughed again.

"And what about my rubies'?" screamed Lena, springing to her feet.

"I have not the slightest doubt that they are paste, too. Everything he touched was fraud."

"I'm glad of it! I'm glad of it!" cried Dick, with a new access of mirth. "The old rascal!
Giving my wife jewels! Why, Lena, you couldn't wear his stuff anyway, after all this fracas.
It will do to trim a Christmas tree."

But Lena, with angry face, tapped the floor nervously with her gaudy small slipper, and made
no reply to her husband's hilarity.

Even to her slow-working mind it was evident that she had paid a high price for some worthless
bits of glass. This conferring of a favor was indeed a bond.

She wondered what Mr. Early thought of her; what Dick would say if he ever discovered.

CHAPTER XXI

A LIGHT IN THE WEST GOES DOWN

The strenuousness of the fall campaign almost wiped these events from Dick's mind. Day after
day he spent in bringing home his points to the man on the street and in the workshop. Much
of it was dreary and monotonous work, but he kept doggedly at it. It seemed his whole life,
now. And night after night Mr. Preston, Dick and Ellery tried to put fire into some dingy little
hall-full of men. To Percival's surprise, Norris developed a plain common-sense variety of
eloquence that appealed to his audiences quite as much as did Dick's more fervid eloquence.
Ellery invariably spoke straight to some well-known condition. But they hammered and pounded
and reasoned and explained; they tried emotion, and logic and everything except bribes to win
their ground, until their speeches began to sound automatic to themselves, their voices grew
hoarse, and they moved like men in a dream.

"If there were one day more of this," Dick said to Norris, as they tramped home late on the
night before election, and felt a certain restfulness in the November starlight, "I should
send down a wheezing nasal phonograph to grind out my speech. I am played out. Everything I
say sounds like tommy-rot."

"It does grow hollow. The worst of it is it robs me of my evenings with Madeline."

"Um!" said Dick. "When are you to be married?"

"About Christmas. The death of Golden, poor fellow, shoves me up a peg on the editorial staff,
and justifies me in facing matrimony. Mr. Elton is good enough to give us a little home. They
are a family to hang to, Dick. I feel as though I had 'belongings' for the first time since
I lost my own father and mother. Madeline and I shall make rather a small beginning, but, as
you know, she has not set her heart on luxuries."

"No," said Dick slowly. "You are a lucky fellow, Ellery. You're going to get away ahead of
me in the long run. Preston said yesterday that the honors of this campaign were yours. He
has been a fine figure-head, and I have hollered loud, but you've hollered deepest, and the
public knows it. I guess that's the real reason that you've been shoved ahead on the staff.
Here's your boarding-house. Good night, old fellow. To-morrow night our labors will be over."

"I hope yours will have just begun, Mr. Alderman," Norris retorted.

The polls closed in uncertainty and for three days speculation filled the papers, and election
bets remained unpaid. Then the decks cleared. Mr. Preston was elected mayor by a narrow plurality;
and out of the eighteen aldermen, the reform element had carried seven, Dick Percival among
them, to victory. The Municipal Club counted its gains and was jubilant, for this meant that,
if the city council passed any objectionable measure, their iniquity could be vetoed by the
mayor, and the bad men of the city fathers lacked one of the two-thirds majority which they
would need to carry their legislation over the executive's veto.

Dick took Lena and went away for a fortnight's rest, but came back looking old and dissatisfied.

It was understood that the first battle in the new council would be over the lighting franchise,
which was about to expire and which the company in power wished to renew. There had been some
talk of an attempt to force it through before the old council went out of power, but even Billy
Barry's henchmen refused to commit themselves to so unpopular a measure on the very eve of
election; for St. Etienne had been paying a notoriously high price for notably bad lighting,
and the citizen, usually a meek animal, had been stirred to a realization of his injuries by
wholesale exposition of the truth.

But now there were new councils of war, and Billy swore more intricate oaths than he had ever
been known to produce in days of yore. He was still in possession of his aldermanic seat, but
a little uncertain whether it was a throne or a stool of repentance. Still Billy talked loudly
of the things he meant to do; and, as usual in his troubles, went to consult the delphic Mr.
Murdock; and Mr. Murdock went to see Mr. Early; and Mr. Early, after very much demur, went
to see Mr. Percival. Sebastian did not like to mix himself publicly in politics, and the reformers
were his friends.

Still, one evening just before the franchise was introduced, Mr. Early did drop in on Dick
in a friendly sort of way. Percival took him to his own sanctum, and settled down with him
to the friendly communion of cigars.

Mr. Early hesitated and was manifestly ill at ease, which gave Dick a pleasurable amusement
while he waited to hear the discomfort unfolded.

At last Sebastian said: "Dick, you know I am a man of art rather than of politics, and of course
I am in entire sympathy with the idea of clean government; but I want to talk to you about
this lighting business."

"Well?" said Dick, as he took out his cigar.

"It's a matter of some importance to one or two of my friends, and I may say, to myself, that
the old contract should be renewed," said Mr. Early, gaining confidence. "I want to ask you
to look at it in a reasonable light. I suppose you fellows had to be a little outrageously
virtuous to make your campaign; but now it's time to drop that and get down to business."

Dick resumed his cigar with an air of settling the question.

"Mr. Early," he said, "I do not think it necessary for us even to discuss this matter. This
was one of the main issues in the campaign. Some of us were elected on purpose that we might
rid the city of this kind of thing; and we propose to carry out our pledges. There is nothing
more to be said."

"There are personal considerations to every question, Percival," answered Mr. Early, shading
his face with his hand, and watching Dick's expression with artistic appreciation of the changes
that he felt sure he should see.

"Not for me," said Dick. "Thank Heaven my hands are clean, and I can do whatever I believe
to be right."

"Yes, for you," answered Mr. Early suavely, and then he broke into a suppressed laugh. "Why,
you young idiot, if you care to be told, your feet are limed, and the sooner you recognize
the fact the better."

"What do you mean?" cried Dick with fierce resentment.

"Oh, sit down, my boy," said Mr. Early, still amiable. "There's no use in rampaging. I just
want to tell you a little story and show you a little piece of paper."

Dick sat down and glared at his guest.

