I am not conversant with the technical terms, nor initiated into the arcana, therefore I may
speak improperly; but it is clear, that men who will not conform to the law of reason, and
earn a subsistence in an honest way, by degrees, are very fortunate in becoming acquainted
with such obliging spirits.  We cannot, indeed, give them credit for either great sagacity
or goodness, else they would have chosen more noble instruments, when they wished to show themselves
the benevolent friends of man.

It is, however, little short of blasphemy to pretend to such power.

>From the whole tenor of the dispensations of Providence, it appears evident to sober reason,
that certain vices produce certain effects: and can any one so grossly insult the wisdom of
God, as to suppose, that a miracle will be allowed to disturb his general laws, to restore
to health the intemperate and vicious, merely to enable them to pursue the same course with
impunity?  Be whole, and sin no more, said Jesus.  And are greater miracles to be performed
by those who do not follow his footsteps, who healed the body to reach the mind?

The mentioning of the name of Christ, after such vile impostors may displease some of my readers--I
respect their warmth; but let them not forget, that the followers of these delusions bear his
name, and profess to be the disciples of him, who said, by their works we should know who were
the children of God or the servants of sin.  I allow that it is easier to touch the body of
a saint, or to be magnetised, than to restrain our appetites or govern our passions; but health
of body or mind can only be recovered by these means, or we make the Supreme Judge partial
and revengeful.

Is he a man, that he should change, or punish out of resentment? He--the common father, wounds
but to heal, says reason, and our irregularities producing certain consequences, we are forcibly
shown the nature of vice; that thus learning to know good from evil, by experience, we may
hate one and love the other, in proportion to the wisdom which we attain.  The poison contains
the antidote; and we either reform our evil habits, and cease to sin against our own bodies,
to use the forcible language of scripture, or a premature death, the punishment of sin, snaps
the thread of life.

Here an awful stop is put to our inquiries.  But, why should I conceal my sentiments?  Considering
the attributes of God, I believe, that whatever punishment may follow, will tend, like the
anguish of disease, to show the malignity of vice, for the purpose of reformation.  Positive
punishment appears so contrary to the nature of God, discoverable in all his works, and in
our own reason, that I could sooner believe that the Deity paid no attention to the conduct
of men, than that he punished without the benevolent design of reforming.

To suppose only, that an all-wise and powerful Being, as good as he is great, should create
a being, foreseeing, that after fifty or sixty years of feverish existence, it would be plunged
into never ending woe--is blasphemy.  On what will the worm feed that is never to die?  On
folly, on ignorance, say ye--I should blush indignantly at drawing the natural conclusion,
could I insert it, and wish to withdraw myself from the wing of my God!  On such a supposition,
I speak with reverence, he would be a consuming fire.  We should wish, though vainly, to fly
from his presence when fear absorbed love, and darkness involved all his counsels.

I know that many devout people boast of submitting to the Will of God blindly, as to an arbitrary
sceptre or rod, on the same principle as the Indians worship the devil.  In other words, like
people in the common concerns of life, they do homage to power, and cringe under the foot that
can crush them.  Rational religion, on the contrary, is a submission to the will of a being
so perfectly wise, that all he wills must be directed by the proper motive--must be reasonable.

And, if thus we respect God, can we give credit to the mysterious insinuations which insult
his laws?  Can we believe, though it should stare us in the face, that he would work a miracle
to authorize confusion by sanctioning an error?  Yet we must either allow these impious conclusions,
or treat with contempt every promise to restore health to a diseased body by supernatural means,
or to foretell, the incidents that can only be foreseen by God.

SECTION 13.2.

Another instance of that feminine weakness of character, often produced by a confined education,
is a romantic twist of the mind, which has been very properly termed SENTIMENTAL.

Women, subjected by ignorance to their sensations, and only taught to look for happiness in
love, refine on sensual feelings, and adopt metaphysical notions respecting that passion, which
lead them shamefully to neglect the duties of life, and frequently in the midst of these sublime
refinements they plunge into actual vice.

These are the women who are amused by the reveries of the stupid novelists, who, knowing little
of human nature, work up stale tales, and describe meretricious scenes, all retailed in a sentimental
jargon, which equally tend to corrupt the taste, and draw the heart aside from its daily duties.
I do not mention the understanding, because never having been exercised, its slumbering energies
rest inactive, like the lurking particles of fire which are supposed universally to pervade matter.

Females, in fact, denied all political privileges, and not allowed, as married women, excepting
in criminal cases, a civil existence, have their attention naturally drawn from the interest
of the whole community to that of the minute parts, though the private duty of any member of
society must be very imperfectly performed, when not connected with the general good.  The
mighty business of female life is to please, and, restrained from entering into more important
concerns by political and civil oppression, sentiments become events, and reflection deepens
what it should, and would have effaced, if the understanding had been allowed to take a wider
range.

But, confined to trifling employments, they naturally imbibe opinions which the only kind of
reading calculated to interest an innocent frivolous mind, inspires.  Unable to grasp any thing
great, is it surprising that they find the reading of history a very dry task, and disquisitions
addressed to the understanding, intolerably tedious, and almost unintelligible?  Thus are they
necessarily dependent on the novelist for amusement.  Yet, when I exclaim against novels, I
mean when contrasted with those works which exercise the understanding and regulate the imagination.
For any kind of reading I think better than leaving a blank still a blank, because the mind
must receive a degree of enlargement, and obtain a little strength by a slight exertion of
its thinking powers; besides, even the productions that are only addressed to the imagination,
raise the reader a little above the gross gratification of appetites, to which the mind has
not given a shade of delicacy.

