 To those who always strive to waive all such considerations,
these things will make but little difference.

The only complete edition of Chapman's works dates from our own days, and its three volumes
correspond to a real division of subject. Although, in common with all these writers, Chapman
has had much uncertain and some improbable work fathered on him, his certain dramas supply
one of the most interesting studies in our period. As usual with everyone except Shakespere
and (it is a fair reason for the relatively disproportionate estimate of these so long held)
Beaumont and Fletcher, they are extremely unequal. Not a certain work of Chapman is void of
interest. The famous Eastward Ho! (one of the liveliest comedies of the period dealing with
London life) was the work of three great writers, and it is not easy to distribute its collaboration.
That it is not swamped with "humours" may prove that Jonson's learned sock was put on by others.
That it is neither grossly indecent nor extravagantly sanguinary, shows that Marston had not
the chief hand in it, and so we are left to Chapman. What he could do is not shown in the list
of his own certain plays till All Fools. The Blind Beggar of Alexandria (1596?) and An Humorous
Day's Mirth show that singular promiscuousness--that heaping together of scenes without order
or connection--which we have noticed in the first dramatic period, not to mention that the
way in which the characters speak of themselves, not as "I" but by their names in the third
person, is also unmistakable. But All Fools is a much more noteworthy piece, and though Mr.
Swinburne may have praised it rather highly, it would certainly take place in a collection
of the score best comedies of the time not written by Shakespere. The Gentleman Usher and Monsieur
d'Olive belong to the same school of humorous, not too pedantic comedy, and then we come to
the strange series of Chapman's French tragedies, Bussy d'Ambois, The Revenge of Bussy d'Ambois,
Byron's Conspiracy, The Tragedy of Charles, Duke of Byron, and The Tragedy of Philip Chabot,
Admiral of France. These singular plays stand by themselves. Whether the strong influence which
Marlowe exercised on Chapman led the later poet (who it must be remembered was not the younger)
to continue The Massacre of Paris, or what other cause begat them, cannot now be asserted or
even guessed without lost labour. A famous criticism of Dryden's attests his attention to them,
but does not, perhaps, to those who have studied Dryden deeply, quite express the influence
which Chapman had on the leader of post-Restoration tragedy. As plays, the whole five are models
of what plays should not be; in parts, they are models of what plays should be. Then Chapman
returned to the humour-comedy and produced two capital specimens of it in May-Day and The Widow's
Tears. Alphonsus, Emperor of Germany, which contains long passages of German, and Revenge for
Honour, two tragedies which were not published till long after Chapman's death, are to my mind
very dubiously his. Mr. Swinburne, in dealing with them, availed himself of the hypothesis
of a mellowing, but at the same time weakening of power by age. It may be so, and I have not
the slightest intention of pronouncing decidedly on the subject. They bear to my mind much
more mark of the decadent period of Charles I., when the secret of blank verse was for a time
lost, and when even men who had lived in personal friendship with their great predecessors
lapsed into the slipshod stuff that we find in Davenant, in his followers, and among them even
in the earlier plays of Dryden. It is, of course, true that this loosening and slackening of
the standard betrays itself even before the death of Chapman, which happened in 1634. But I
cannot believe that the author of Bussy d'Ambois (where the verse is rude enough but never
lax) and the contemporary or elder of Shakespere, Marlowe, and all the great race, could ever
have been guilty of the slovenliness which, throughout, marks Revenge for Honour.

The second part of Chapman's work, his original verse, is much inferior in bulk and in interest
of matter to the first and third. Yet, is it not perhaps inferior to either in giving evidence
of the author's peculiarities; while the very best thing he ever wrote (a magnificent passage
in The Tears of Peace) is contained in it. Its component parts are, however, sufficiently odd.
It opens with a strange poem called The Shadow of Night, which Mr. Swinburne is not wrong in
classing among the obscurest works in English. The mischievous fashion of enigmatic writing,
already glanced at in the section on satire, was perhaps an offshoot of euphuism; and certainly
Chapman, who never exhibits much taint of euphuism proper, here out-Herods Herod and out-Tourneurs
Tourneur. It was followed by an equally singular attempt at the luscious school of which Venus
and Adonis is the most famous. Ovid's Banquet of Sense has received high praise from critics
whom I esteem. For my own part I should say that it is the most curious instance of a radically
unpassionate nature, trying to lash itself into passion, that our language contains. Then Chapman
tried an even bolder flight in the same dialect--the continuation of Marlowe's unfinished Hero
and Leander. In this attempt, either by sheer force of his sinewy athletics, or by some inspiration
derived from the "Dead Shepherd," his predecessor, he did not fail, curious as is the contrast
of the two parts. The Tears of Peace, which contains his finest work, is in honour of Prince
Henry--a worthy work on a worthy subject, which was followed up later by an epicedium on the
prince's lamented death. Besides some epigrams and sonnets, the chief other piece of this division
is the disastrous Andromeda Liberata, which unluckily celebrates the nuptials--stained with
murder, adultery, and crime of all sorts--of Frances Howard and Robert Carr. It is in Chapman's
most allusive and thorniest style, but is less interesting intrinsically than as having given
occasion to an indignant prose vindication by the poet, which, considering his self-evident
honesty, is the most valuable document in existence for explaining the apparently grovelling
panegyric of the sixteenth and seventeenth century. It makes clear (what indeed an intelligent
reader might gather for himself) that the traditional respect for rank and station, uniting
with the tendency to look for patterns and precedents in the classics for almost everything,
made of these panegyrics a kind of school exercise, in which the excellence of the subject
was taken for granted, and the utmost hyperbole of praise was only a "common form" of composition,
to which the poet imparted or added what grace of style or fancy he could, with hardly a notion
of his ascriptions being taken literally.

But if Chapman's dramas have been greatly undervalued, and if his original poems are an invaluable
help to the study of the time, there is no doubt that it is as a translator that he made and
kept the strongest hold on the English mind. He himself spoke of his Homeric translations (which
he began as early as 1598, doing also Hesiod, some Juvenal, and some minor fragments, Pseudo-Virgilian,
Petrarchian and others) as "the work that he was born to do." His version, with all its faults,
outlived the popularity even of Pope, was for more than two centuries the resort of all who,
unable to read Greek, wished to know what the Greek was, and, despite the finical scholarship
of the present day, is likely to survive all the attempts made with us. I speak with all humility,
but as having learnt Homer from Homer himself, and not from any translation, prose or verse.
I am perfectly aware of Chapman's outrageous liberties, of his occasional unfaithfulness (for
a libertine need not necessarily be unfaithful in translation), and of the condescension to
his own fancies and the fancies of his age, which obscures not more perhaps than some condescensions
which nearness and contemporary influences prevent some of us from seeing the character of
the original. But at the same time, either I have no skill in criticism, and have been reading
Greek for fifty years to none effect, or Chapman is far nearer Homer than any modern translator
in any modern language. He is nearer in the Iliad than in the Odyssey--an advantage resulting
from his choice of vehicle. In the Odyssey he chose the heroic couplet, which never can give
the rise and fall of the hexameter. In the Iliad, after some hesitation between the two (he
began as early as 1598), he preferred the fourteener, which, at its best, is the hexameter's
nearest substitute. With Chapman it is not always at its best--very far from it. If he never
quite relapses into the sheer doggerel of the First Period, he sometimes comes perilously near
to it. But he constantly lifts his wings and soars in a quite different measure which, when
he keeps it up for a little, gives a narrative vehicle unsurpassed, and hardly equalled, in
English poetry for variation of movement and steady forward flow combined. The one point in
which the Homeric hexameter is unmatched among metres is its combination of steady advance
with innumerable ripples and eddies in its course, and it is here that Chapman (though of course
not fully) can partly match it. It is, however, one of the testimonies to the supreme merit
of the Homeric poems that every age seems to try to imitate them in its own special mannerisms,
and that, consequently, no age is satisfied with the attempts of another. It is a second, that
those who know the original demur at all.

The characteristics of Chapman, then, are very much those of Jonson with a difference. Both
had the same incapacity of unlaboured and forceless art, the same insensibility to passion,
the same inability to rise above mere humours and contemporary oddities into the region of
universal poetry. Both had the same extensive learning, the same immense energy, the same (if
it must be said) arrogance and contempt of the vulgar. In casual strokes, though not in sustained
grasp, Chapman was Jonson's superior; but unlike Jonson he had no lyric gift, and unlike Jonson
he let his learning and his ambitious thought clog and obscure the flow of his English. Nor
does he show in any of his original work the creative force of his younger friend. With the
highest opinion reasonably possible of Chapman's dramas, we cannot imagine him for a moment
composing a Volpone or an Alchemist--even a Bartholomew Fair; while he was equally, or still
more, incapable of Jonson's triumphs in epigram and epitaph, in song and ode. A certain shapelessness
is characteristic of everything that Chapman did--an inability, as Mr. Swinburne (to whom every
one who now writes on Chapman must acknowledge indebtedness), has said, "to clear his mouth
of pebbles, and his brow of fog." His long literary life, which must have exceeded half a century,
and his great learning, forbid our setting this down as it may be set in the case of many of
his contemporaries, and especially in the case of those two to whom we are now coming, as due
to youth, to the imperfect state of surrounding culture, to want of time for perfecting his
work, and so forth. He is the "Bègue de Vilaines," the heroic Stammerer of English literature--a
man who evidently had some congenital defect which all his fire and force, all his care and
curiosity, could not overcome. Yet are his doings great, and it is at least probable that if
he had felt less difficulty in original work, he would not have been prompted to set about
and finish the noble work of translation which is among the best products of an unsatisfactory
kind, and which will outlive the cavils of generations of etymologists and aorist-grinders.
He has been so little read that four specimens of his different manners--the early "tenebrous"
style of The Shadow of Night, the famous passage from Bussy d'Ambois which excited Lamb's enthusiasm,
and a sample from both Iliad and Odyssey--may be given:

    "In this vast thicket (whose description's task
    The pens of fairies and of fiends would ask:
    So more than human-thoughted horrible)
    The souls of such as lived implausible,
    In happy empire of this goddess' glories,
    And scorned to crown her fanes with sacrifice,[35]
    Did ceaseless walk; exspiring fearful groans,
    Curses and threats for their confusions.
    Her darts, and arrows, some of them had slain:
    Others her dogs eat, painting her disdain,
    After she had transformed them into beasts:
    Others her monsters carried to their nests,
    Rent them in pieces, and their spirits sent
    To this blind shade, to wail their banishment.
    The huntsmen hearing (since they could not hear)
    Their hounds at fault, in eager chase drew near,
    Mounted on lions, unicorns, and boars,
    And saw their hounds lie licking of their sores
    Some yearning at the shroud, as if they chid
    Her stinging tongues, that did their chase forbid:
    By which they knew the game was that way gone.
    Then each man forced the beast he rode upon,
    T' assault the thicket; whose repulsive thorns
    So gall'd the lions, boars, and unicorns,
    Dragons and wolves, that half their courages
    Were spent in roars, and sounds of heaviness:
    Yet being the princeliest, and hardiest beasts,
    That gave chief fame to those Ortygian forests,
    And all their riders furious of their sport,
    A fresh assault they gave, in desperate sort:
    And with their falchions made their way in wounds,
    The thicket open'd, and let in the hounds."

[35] The rhyme, bad as it is, is not unprecedented.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Bu. "What dismal change is here; the good old Friar
          Is murther'd, being made known to serve my love;
          And now his restless spirit would forewarn me
          Of some plot dangerous and imminent.
          Note what he wants? He wants his upper weed,
          He wants his life and body; which of these
          Should be the want he means, and may supply me
          With any fit forewarning? This strange vision
          (Together with the dark prediction
          Used by the Prince of Darkness that was raised
          By this embodied shadow) stir my thoughts
          With reminiscion of the spirit's promise,
          Who told me, that by any invocation
          I should have power to raise him, though it wanted
          The powerful words and decent rites of art;
          Never had my set brain such need of spirit
          T' instruct and cheer it; now, then, I will claim
          Performance of his free and gentle vow
          T' appear in greater light and make more plain
          His rugged oracle. I long to know
          How my dear mistress fares, and be inform'd
          What hand she now holds on the troubled blood
          Of her incensed lord. Methought the spirit
          (When he had utter'd his perplex'd presage)
          Threw his changed countenance headlong into clouds,
          His forehead bent, as it would hide his face,
          He knock'd his chin against his darken'd breast,
          And struck a churlish silence through his powers.
          Terror of darkness! O, thou king of flames!
          That with thy music-footed horse dost strike
          The clear light out of crystal on dark earth,
          And hurl'st instructive fire about the world,
          Wake, wake, the drowsy and enchanted night
          That sleeps with dead eyes in this heavy riddle;
          Or thou great prince of shades where never sun
          Sticks his far darted beams, whose eyes are made
          To shine in darkness, and see ever best
          Where sense is blindest: open now the heart
          Of thy abashed oracle, that for fear
          Of some ill it includes, would fain lie hid,
          And rise thou with it in thy greater light."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "For Hector's glory still he stood, and ever went about
    To make him cast the fleet such fire, as never should go out;
    Heard Thetis' foul petition, and wished in any wise
    The splendour of the burning ships might satiate his eyes.[36]
    From him yet the repulse was then to be on Troy conferred,
    The honour of it given the Greeks; which thinking on, he stirr'd
    With such addition of his spirit, the spirit Hector bore
    To burn the fleet, that of itself was hot enough before.
    But now he fared like Mars himself, so brandishing his lance
    As, through the deep shades of a wood, a raging fire should glance,
    Held up to all eyes by a hill; about his lips a foam
    Stood as when th' ocean is enraged; his eyes were overcome
    With fervour and resembled flames, set off by his dark brows,
    And from his temples his bright helm abhorrèd lightnings throws;
    For Jove, from forth the sphere of stars, to his state put his own
    And all the blaze of both the hosts confined in him alone.
    And all this was, since after this he had not long to live,
    This lightning flew before his death, which Pallas was to give
    (A small time thence, and now prepared) beneath the violence
    Of great Pelides. In meantime, his present eminence
    Thought all things under it; and he, still where he saw the stands
    Of greatest strength and bravest arm'd, there he would prove his hands,
    Or no where; offering to break through, but that passed all his power
    Although his will were past all theirs, they stood him like a tower
    Conjoined so firm, that as a rock, exceeding high and great,
    And standing near the hoary sea, bears many a boisterous threat
    Of high-voiced winds and billows huge, belched on it by the storms;
    So stood the Greeks great Hector's charge, nor stirred their battellous
          forms."

[36] This line alone would suffice to exhibit Chapman's own splendour at his best.

       *       *       *       *       *

                "This the Goddess told,
    And then the morning in her throne of gold
    Surveyed the vast world; by whose orient light
    The nymph adorn'd me with attires as bright,
    Her own hands putting on both shirt and weed
    Robes fine, and curious, and upon my head
    An ornament that glittered like a flame;
    Girt me in gold; and forth betimes I came
    Amongst my soldiers, roused them all from sleep,
    And bade them now no more observance keep
    Of ease, and feast, but straight a shipboard fall,
    For now the Goddess had inform'd me all.
    Their noble spirits agreed; nor yet so clear
    Could I bring all off, but Elpenor there
    His heedless life left. He was youngest man
    Of all my company, and one that wan
    Least fame for arms, as little for his brain;
    Who (too much steep'd in wine and so made fain
    To get refreshing by the cool of sleep,
    Apart his fellows plung'd in vapours deep,
    And they as high in tumult of their way)
    Suddenly waked and (quite out of the stay
    A sober mind had given him) would descend
    A huge long ladder, forward, and an end
    Fell from the very roof, full pitching on
    The dearest joint his head was placed upon,
    Which quite dissolved, let loose his soul to hell."

With regard to Marston (of whose little-known personality something has been said in connection
with his satires) I find myself somewhat unable to agree with the generality of critics, who
seem to me to have been rather taken in by his blood-and-thunder work, his transpontine declamation
against tyrants, and his affectation of a gloomy or furious scorn against mankind. The uncouthness,
as well as the suspicion of insincerity, which we noted in his satirical work, extend, as it
seems to me, also to his dramas; and if we class him as a worker in horrors with Marlowe earlier,
and with Webster and Ford later, the chief result will be to show his extreme inferiority to
them. He is even below Tourneur in this respect, while, like Tourneur, he is exposed to the
charge of utterly neglecting congruity and proportion. With him we relapse not merely from
the luminous perfection of Shakespere, from the sane order of work which was continued through
Fletcher, and the best of Fletcher's followers, but from the more artificial unity of Jonson,
back into the chaotic extravagances of the First Period. Marston, like the rest, is fond of
laughing at Jeronimo, but his own tragic construction and some of his own tragic scenes are
hardly less bombastic, and scarcely at all less promiscuous than the tangled horrors of that
famous melodrama. Marston, it is true, has lucid intervals--even many of them. Hazlitt has
succeeded in quoting many beautiful passages, one of which was curiously echoed in the next
age by Nat. Lee, in whom, indeed, there was a strong vein of Elizabethan melodrama. The sarcasm
on philosophical study in What You Will is one of the very best things of its own kind in the
range of English drama,--light, sustained, not too long nor too short, in fact, thoroughly
"hit off."

    "Delight my spaniel slept, whilst I baused[37] leaves,
    Tossed o'er the dunces, pored on the old print
    Of titled words, and still my spaniel slept.
    Whilst I wasted lamp oil, bated my flesh,
    Shrunk up my veins, and still my spaniel slept,
    And still I held converse with Zabarell,
    Aquinas, Scotus, and the musty saws
    Of antique Donate: still my spaniel slept.
    Still on went I: first an sit anima,
    Then, an' 'twere mortal. O hold, hold!
    At that they are at brain buffets, fell by the ears,
    Amain [pell-mell] together--still my spaniel slept.
    Then whether 'twere corporeal, local, fixed,
    Ex traduce; but whether 't had free will
    Or no, hot philosophers
    Stood banding factions all so strongly propped,
    I staggered, knew not which was firmer part;
    But thought, quoted, read, observed and pried,
    Stuffed noting-books, and still my spaniel slept.
    At length he waked and yawned, and by yon sky
    For aught I know, he knew as much as I."

[37] Kissed.

There is real pathos in Antonio and Mellida, and real satire in Parasitaster and The Malcontent.
Hazlitt (who had a very high opinion of Marston) admits that the remarkable inequalities of
this last piece "seem to show want of interest in the subject." This is an odd explanation,
but I suspect it is really only an anticipation in more favourable words of my own theory,
that Marston's tragic and satiric moods were not really sincere; that he was a clever man who
found a fashion of satire and a fashion of blood-and-thunder tragedy prevailing, and threw
himself into both without much or any heart in the matter. This is supported by the curious
fact that almost all his plays (at least those extant) were produced within a very few years,
1602-1607, though he lived some thirty years after the latter date, and quite twenty after
his last dated appearances in literature, The Insatiate Countess, and Eastward Ho! That he
was an ill-tempered person with considerable talents, who succeeded, at any rate for a time,
in mistaking his ill-temper for sæva indignatio, and his talents for genius, is not, I think,
too harsh a description of Marston. In the hotbed of the literary influences of the time these
conditions of his produced some remarkable fruit. But when the late Professor Minto attributes
to him "amazing and almost Titanic energy," mentions "life" several times over as one of the
chief characteristics of his personages (I should say that they had as much life as violently-moved
marionettes), and discovers "amiable and admirable characters" among them, I am compelled not,
of course, to be positive that my own very different estimate is right, but to wonder at the
singularly different way in which the same things strike different persons, who are not as
a rule likely to look at them from very different points of view.

Marston's plays, however, are both powerful enough and famous enough to call for a somewhat
more detailed notice. Antonio and Mellida, the earliest and if not the best as a whole, that
which contains the finest scenes and fragments, is in two parts--the second being more properly
called The Revenge of Antonio. The revenge itself is of the exaggerated character which was
so popular with the Elizabethan dramatists, but in which (except in the famous Cornwall and
Gloucester scene in Lear) Shakespere never indulged after his earliest days. The wicked tyrant's
tongue is torn out, his murdered son's body is thrown down before him, and then the conspirators,
standing round, gibe, curse, and rant at him for a couple of pages before they plunge their
swords into his body. This goodly conclusion is led up to by a sufficient quantity of antecedent
and casual crimes, together with much not very excellent fooling by a court gull, Balurdo,
who might be compared with Shakespere's fools of the same kind, to the very great advantage
of those who do not appreciate the latter. The beautiful descriptive and reflective passages
which, in Lamb's Extracts, gave the play its reputation, chiefly occur towards the beginning,
and this is the best of them:--

    And. "Why man, I never was a Prince till now.
           'Tis not the bared pate, the bended knees,
           Gilt tipstaves, Tyrian purple, chairs of state,
           Troops of pied butterflies, that flutter still
           In greatness summer, that confirm a prince:
           'Tis not the unsavoury breath of multitudes,
           Shouting and clapping, with confused din;
           That makes a prince. No, Lucio, he's a king,
           A true right king, that dares do aught save wrong,
           Fears nothing mortal, but to be unjust,
           Who is not blown up with the flattering puffs
           Of spungy sycophants: who stands unmov'd
           Despite the jostling of opinion:
           Who can enjoy himself, maugre the throng
           That strive to press his quiet out of him:
           Who sits upon Jove's footstool as I do
           Adoring, not affecting majesty:
           Whose brow is wreathèd with the silver crown
           Of clear content: this, Lucio, is a king,
           And of this empire, every man's possessed
           That's worth his soul."

Sophonisba, which followed, is much less rambling, but as bloody and extravagant. The scene
where the witch Erichtho plays Succubus to Syphax, instead of the heroine, and in her form,
has touches which partly, but not wholly, redeem its extravagance, and the end is dignified
and good. What You Will, a comedy of intrigue, is necessarily free from Marston's worst faults,
and here the admirable passage quoted above occurs. But the main plot--which turns not only
on the courtship, by a mere fribble, of a lady whose husband is supposed to be dead, and who
has very complacently forgotten all about him, but on a ridiculous plot to foist a pretender
off as the dead husband itself--is simply absurd. The lack of probability, which is the curse
of the minor Elizabethan drama, hardly anywhere appears more glaringly. Parasitaster, or The
Fawn, a satirical comedy, is much better, but the jealous hatred of The Dutch Courtesan is
again not made probable. Then came Marston's completest work in drama, The Malcontent, an anticipation,
after Elizabethan fashion, of Le Misanthrope and The Plain Dealer. Though not free from Marston's
two chief vices of coarseness and exaggerated cynicism, it is a play of great merit, and much
the best thing he has done, though the reconciliation, at the end, of such a husband and such
a wife as Piero and Aurelia, between whom there is a chasm of adultery and murder, again lacks
verisimilitude. It is to be observed that both in The Fawn and The Malcontent there are disguised
dukes--a fact not testifying any very great originality, even in borrowing. Of Eastward Ho!
we have already spoken, and it is by no means certain that The Insatiate Countess is Marston's.
His reputation would not lose much were it not. A fabliau-like underplot of the machinations
of two light-o'-love citizens' wives against their husbands is not unamusing, but the main
story of the Countess Isabella, a modern Messalina (except that she adds cruelty to the vices
of Messalina) who alternately courts lovers and induces their successors to assassinate them,
is in the worst style of the whole time--the tragedy of lust that is not dignified by the slightest
passion, and of murder that is not excused by the slightest poetry of motive or treatment.
Though the writing is not of the lowest order, it might have been composed by any one of some
thirty or forty writers. It was actually attributed at the time to William Barksted, a minor
poet of some power, and I am inclined to think it not Marston's, though my own estimate of
him is, as will have been seen, not so high as some other estimates. It is because those estimates
appear to me unduly high that I have rather accentuated the expression of my own lower one.
For the last century, and perhaps longer, the language of hyperbole has been but too common
about our dramatists, and I have known more than one case in which the extravagant praise bestowed
upon them has, when students have come to the works themselves, had a very disastrous effect
of disappointment. It is, therefore, all the more necessary to be candid in criticism where
criticism seems to be required.

As to the last of our good company, there is fortunately very little risk of difference of
opinion. A hundred years ago Thomas Dekker was probably little more than a name to all but
professed students of Elizabethan literature, and he waited longer than any of his fellows
for due recognition by presentation of his work in a complete form. It was not until the year
1873 that his plays were collected; it was not till eleven years later that his prose works
had the same honour. Yet, since attention was directed to Dekker in any way, the best authorities
have been unanimous in his praise. Lamb's famous outburst of enthusiasm, that he had "poetry
enough for anything," has been soberly endorsed by two full generations of the best judges,
and whatever differences of detail there may be as to his work, it is becoming more and more
the received, and correctly-received opinion, that, as his collaborator Webster came nearest
to Shakespere in universalising certain types in the severer tragedy, so Dekker has the same
honour on the gently pathetic side. Yet this great honour is done to one of the most shadowy
personalities in literature. We have four goodly volumes of his plays and five of his other
works; yet of Thomas Dekker, the man, we know absolutely less than of any one of his shadowy
fellows. We do not know when he was born, when he died, what he did other than writing in the
certainly long space between the two unknown dates. In 1637 he was by his own words a man of
threescore, which, as it has been justly remarked, may mean anything between fifty-five and
seventy. He was in circumstances a complete contrast to his fellow-victim in Jonson's satire,
Marston. Marston was apparently a gentleman born and bred, well connected, well educated, possessed
of some property, able to make testamentary dispositions, and probably in the latter part of
his life, when Dekker was still toiling at journalism of various kinds, a beneficed clergyman
in country retirement. Dekker was, it is to be feared, what the arrogance of certain members
of the literary profession has called, and calls, a gutter-journalist--a man who had no regular
preparation for the literary career, and who never produced anything but hand-to-mouth work.
Jonson went so far as to say that he was a "rogue;" but Ben, though certainly not a rogue,
was himself not to be trusted when he spoke of people that he did not like; and if there was
any but innocent roguery in Dekker he has contrived to leave exactly the opposite impression
stamped on every piece of his work. And it is particularly interesting to note, that constantly
as he wrote in collaboration, one invariable tone, and that the same as is to be found in his
undoubtedly independent work, appears alike in plays signed with him by persons so different
as Middleton and Webster, as Chettle and Ford. When this is the case, the inference is certain,
according to the strictest rules of logic. We can define Dekker's idiosyncrasy almost more
certainly than if he had never written a line except under his own name. That idiosyncrasy
consists, first, of an exquisite lyrical faculty, which, in the songs given in all collections
of extracts, equals, or almost equals, that of Shakespere; secondly, of a faculty for poetical
comedy, for the comedy which transcends and plays with, rather than grasps and exposes, the
vices and follies of men; thirdly, for a touch of pathos again to be evened only to Shakespere's;
and lastly, for a knack of representing women's nature, for which, except in the master of
all, we may look in vain throughout the plentiful dramatic literature of the period, though
touches of it appear in Greene's Margaret of Fressingfield, in Heywood, in Middleton, and in
some of the anonymous plays which have been fathered indifferently, and with indifferent hopelessness
of identification, on some of the greatest of names of the period, on some of the meanest,
and on an equal number of those that are neither great nor mean.

Dekker's very interesting prose works we shall treat in the next chapter, together with the
other tracts into whose class they fall, and some of his plays may either go unnoticed, or,
with those of the dramatists who collaborated with him, and whose (notably in the case of The
Roaring Girl) they pretty evidently were more than his. His own characteristic pieces, or those
in which his touch shows most clearly, though they may not be his entirely, are The Shoemaker's
Holiday, Old Fortunatus, Satiromastix, Patient Grissil, The Honest Whore, The Whore of Babylon,
If it be not Good the Devil is in it, The Virgin Martyr, Match me in London, The Son's Darling,
and The Witch of Edmonton. In everyone of these the same characteristics appear, but the strangely
composite fashion of writing of the time makes them appear in differing measures. The Shoemaker's
Holiday is one of those innumerable and yet singular pieces in which the taste of the time
seems to have so much delighted, and which seem so odd to modern taste,--pieces in which a
plot or underplot, as the case may be, of the purest comedy of manners, a mere picture of the
life, generally the lower middle-class life of the time, is united with hardly a thought of
real dramatic conjunction to another plot of a romantic kind, in which noble and royal personages,
with, it may be, a dash of history, play their parts. The crowning instance of this is Middleton's
Mayor of Queenborough; but there are scores and hundreds of others, and Dekker specially affects
it. The Shoemaker's Holiday is principally distinguished by the directness and raciness of
its citizen sketches. Satiromastix (the second title of which is "The Untrussing of the Humorous
Poet") is Dekker's reply to The Poetaster, in which he endeavours to retort Jonson's own machinery
upon him. With his customary disregard of congruity, however, he has mixed up the personages
of Horace, Crispinus, Demetrius, and Tucca, not with a Roman setting, but with a purely romantic
story of William Rufus and Sir Walter Tyrrel, and the king's attempt upon the fidelity of Tyrrel's
bride. This incongruous mixture gives one of the most charming scenes of his pen, the apparent
poisoning of Celestina by her father to save her honour. But as Lamb himself candidly confessed,
the effect of this in the original is marred, if not ruined, by the farcical surroundings,
and the more farcical upshot of the scene itself,--the poisoning being, like Juliet's, a mere
trick, though very differently fortuned. In Patient Grissil the two exquisite songs, "Art thou
poor" and "Golden slumbers kiss thine eyes," and the sympathetic handling of Griselda's character
(the one of all others to appeal to Dekker) mark his work. In all the other plays the same
notes appear, and there is no doubt that Mr. Swinburne is wholly right in singling out from
The Witch of Edmonton the feminine characters of Susan, Winifred, and the witch herself, as
showing Dekker's unmatched command of the colours in which to paint womanhood. In the great
debate as to the authorship of The Virgin Martyr, everything is so much conjecture that it
is hard to pronounce authoritatively. Gifford's cool assumption that everything bad in the
play is Dekker's, and everything good Massinger's, will not hold for a moment; but, on the
other side, it must be remembered that since Lamb there has been a distinct tendency to depreciate
Massinger. All that can be said is, that the grace and tenderness of the Virgin's part are
much more in accordance with what is certainly Dekker's than with what is certainly Massinger's,
and that either was quite capable of the Hircius and Spungius passages which have excited so
much disgust and indignation--disgust and indignation which perhaps overlook the fact that
they were no doubt inserted with the express purpose of heightening, by however clumsily designed
a contrast, the virgin purity of Dorothea the saint.

It will be seen that I have reserved Old Fortunatus and The Honest Whore for separate notice.
They illustrate, respectively, the power which Dekker has in romantic poetry, and his command
of vivid, tender, and subtle portraiture in the characters, especially, of women. Both, and
especially the earlier play, exhibit also his rapid careless writing, and his ignorance of,
or indifference to, the construction of a clear and distinctly outlined plot. Old Fortunatus
tells the well-known story of the wishing cap and purse, with a kind of addition showing how
these fare in the hands of Fortunatus's sons, and with a wild intermixture (according to the
luckless habit above noted) of kings and lords, and pseudo-historical incidents. No example
of the kind is more chaotic in movement and action. But the interlude of Fortune with which
it is ushered in is conceived in the highest romantic spirit, and told in verse of wonderful
effectiveness, not to mention two beautiful songs; and throughout the play the allegorical
or supernatural passages show the same character. Nor are the more prosaic parts inferior,
as, for instance, the pretty dialogue of Orleans and Galloway, cited by Lamb, and the fine
passage where Andelocia says what he will do "to-morrow."

    Fort. "No more: curse on: your cries to me are music,
            And fill the sacred roundure of mine ears
            With tunes more sweet than moving of the spheres.
            Curse on: on our celestial brows do sit
            Unnumbered smiles, which then leap from their throne
            When they see peasants dance and monarchs groan.
            Behold you not this Globe, this golden bowl,
            This toy call'd world at our Imperial feet?
            This world is Fortune's ball wherewith she sports.
            Sometimes I strike it up into the air,
            And then create I Emperors and Kings.
            Sometimes I spurn it: at which spurn crawls out
            That wild beast multitude: curse on, you fools.
            'Tis I that tumble Princes from their thrones,
            And gild false brows with glittering diadems.
            'Tis I that tread on necks of conquerors,
            And when like semi-gods they have been drawn,
            In ivory chariots to the capitol,
            Circled about with wonder of all eyes
            The shouts of every tongue, love of all hearts
            Being swoll'n with their own greatness, I have prick'd
            The bladder of their pride, and made them die,
            As water bubbles, without memory.
            I thrust base cowards into honour's chair,
            Whilst the true spirited soldier stands by
            Bare headed, and all bare, whilst at his scars
            They scoff, that ne'er durst view the face of wars.
            I set an Idiot's cap on virtue's head,
            Turn learning out of doors, clothe wit in rags
            And paint ten thousand images of loam
            In gaudy silken colours: on the backs
            Of mules and asses I make asses ride
            Only for sport, to see the apish world
            Worship such beasts with sound idolatry.
            This Fortune does, and when this is done,
            She sits and smiles to hear some curse her name,
            And some with adoration crown her fame.

       *       *       *       *       *

     And. "To-morrow? ay to-morrow thou shalt buy them.
            To-morrow tell the Princess I will love her,
            To-morrow tell the King I'll banquet him,
            To-morrow, Shadow, will I give thee gold,
            To-morrow pride goes bare, and lust a-cold.
            To-morrow will the rich man feed the poor,
            And vice to-morrow virtue will adore.
            To-morrow beggars shall be crownèd kings.
            This no-time, morrow's time, no sweetness sings.
            I pray thee hence: bear that to Agripyne."

The whole is, as a whole, to the last degree crude and undigested, but the ill-matured power
of the writer is almost the more apparent.

The Honest Whore, in two parts, is, as far as general character goes, a mixed comedy of intrigue
and manners combining, or rather uniting (for there is little combination of them), four themes--first,
the love of Hippolito for the Princess Infelice, and his virtuous motions followed by relapse;
secondly, the conversion by him of the courtesan Bellafront, a damsel of good family, from
her evil ways, and her marriage to her first gallant, a hairbrained courtier named Matheo;
thirdly, Matheo's ill-treatment of Bellafront, her constancy and her rejection of the temptations
of Hippolito, who from apostle has turned seducer, with the humours of Orlando Friscobaldo,
Bellafront's father, who, feigning never to forgive her, watches over her in disguise, and
acts as guardian angel to her reckless and sometimes brutal husband; and lastly, the other
humours of a certain marvellously patient citizen who allows his wife to hector him, his customers
to bully and cheat him, and who pushes his eccentric and unmanly patience to the point of enduring
both madhouse and jail. Lamb, while ranking a single speech of Bellafront's very high, speaks
with rather oblique approval of the play, and Hazlitt, though enthusiastic for it, admires
chiefly old Friscobaldo and the ne'er-do-well Matheo. My own reason for preferring it to almost
all the non-tragical work of the time out of Shakespere, is the wonderful character of Bellafront,
both in her unreclaimed and her reclaimed condition. In both she is a very woman--not as conventional
satirists and conventional encomiasts praise or rail at women, but as women are. If her language
in her unregenerate days is sometimes coarser than is altogether pleasant, it does not disguise
her nature,--the very nature of such a woman misled by giddiness, by curiosity, by love of
pleasure, by love of admiration, but in no thorough sense depraved. Her selection of Matheo
not as the instrument of her being "made an honest woman," not apparently because she had any
love for him left, or had ever had much, but because he was her first seducer, is exactly what,
after a sudden convincing of sin, such a woman would have done; and if her patience under the
long trial of her husband's thoughtlessness and occasional brutality seem excessive, it will
only seem so to one who has been unlucky in his experience. Matheo indeed is a thorough good-for-nothing,
and the natural man longs that Bellafront might have been better parted; but Dekker was a very
moral person in his own way, and apparently he would not entirely let her--Imogen gone astray
as she is--off her penance.

CHAPTER VI

LATER ELIZABETHAN AND JACOBEAN PROSE

One name so far dominates the prose literature of the last years of Elizabeth, and that of
the whole reign of James, that it has probably alone secured attention in the general memory,
except such as may be given to the purple patches (of the true Tyrian dye, but not extremely
numerous) which decorate here and there the somewhat featureless expanse of Sir Walter Raleigh's
History of the World. That name, it is scarcely necessary to say, is the name of Francis Bacon.
Bacon's eventful life, his much debated character, his philosophical and scientific position,
are all matters beyond our subject. But as it is of the first importance in studying that subject
to keep dates and circumstances generally, if not minutely, in view, it may be well to give
a brief summary of his career. He was born in 1561, the son of Sir Nicholas Bacon, Lord Keeper;
he went very young to Cambridge, and though early put to the study of the law, discovered an
equally early bent in another direction. He was unfortunate in not obtaining the patronage
then necessary to all men not of independent fortune. Though Elizabeth was personally familiar
with him, she gave him nothing of importance--whether owing to the jealousy of his uncle and
cousin, Burleigh and Robert Cecil, is a point not quite certain. The patronage of Essex did
him very little good, and drew him into the worst action of his life. But after Elizabeth's
death, and when a man of middle age, he at last began to mount the ladder, and came with some
rapidity to the summit of his profession, being made Lord Chancellor, and created Baron Verulam
and Viscount St. Alban. The title Lord Bacon he never bore in strictness, but it has been consecrated
by the use of many generations, and it is perhaps pedantry to object to it. Entangled as a
courtier in the rising hatred of the Court felt by the popular party, exposed by his own carelessness,
if not by actual venality in office, to the attacks of his enemies, and weakly supported, if
supported at all, by the favourite Buckingham (who seems to have thought that Bacon took too
much upon himself in state affairs), he lost, in 1621, all his places and emoluments, and was
heavily fined. The retirement of his last few years produced much literary fruit, and he died
(his death being caused or hastened by an injudicious experiment) in 1626.

Great as is the place that Bacon occupies in English literature, he occupies it, as it were,
malgré lui. Unlike almost all the greatest men of his own and even of the preceding generation,
he seems to have thought little of the capacities, and less of the chances of the English language.
He held (and, unluckily for him, expressed his opinion in writing) that "these modern languages
will at one time or the other play the bankrupt with books," and even when he wrote in the
despised vernacular he took care to translate his work, or have it translated, into Latin in
order to forestall the oblivion he dreaded. Nor is this his only phrase of contempt towards
his mother-tongue--the tongue which in his own lifetime served as a vehicle to a literature
compared with which the whole literary achievement of Latin antiquity is but a neat school
exercise, and which in every point but accomplished precision of form may challenge comparison
with Greek itself. This insensibility of Bacon's is characteristic enough, and might, if this
were the place for any such subtlety, be connected with the other defects of his strangely
blended character--his pusillanimity, his lack of passion (let any one read the Essay on Love,
and remember that some persons, not always inmates of lunatic asylums, have held that Bacon
wrote the plays of Shakespere), his love of empty pomp and display, and so forth.

But the English language which he thus despised had a noble and worthy revenge on Bacon. Of
his Latin works hardly anything but the Novum Organum is now read even for scholastic purposes,
and it is not certain that, but for the saving influences of academical study and prescription,
even that might not slip out of the knowledge of all but specialists. But with the wider and
wider spread and study of English the Essays and The Advancement of Learning are read ever
more and more, and the only reason that The History of Henry VII., The New Atlantis, and the
Sylva Sylvarum do not receive equal attention, lies in the comparative obsoleteness of their
matter, combined with the fact that the matter is the chief thing on which attention is bestowed
in them. Even in the two works noted, the Essays and The Advancement, which can go both together
in a small volume, Bacon shows himself at his very greatest in all respects, and (ignorant
or careless as he was of the fact) as one of the greatest writers of English prose before the
accession of Charles I.

The characteristics of style in these two works are by no means the same; but between them
they represent fairly enough the characteristics of all Bacon's English prose. It might indeed
be desirable in studying it to add to them the Henry the Seventh, which is a model of clear
historical narration, not exactly picturesque, but never dull; and though not exactly erudite,
yet by no means wanting in erudition, and exhibiting conclusions which, after two centuries
and a half of record-grubbing, have not been seriously impugned or greatly altered by any modern
historian. In this book, which was written late, Bacon had, of course, the advantage of his
long previous training in the actual politics of a school not very greatly altered since the
time he was describing, but this does not diminish the credit due to him for formal excellence.

The Essays--which Bacon issued for the first time, to the number of ten, in 1597, when he was,
comparatively speaking, a young man, which he reissued largely augmented in 1612, and yet again
just before his death, in their final and fullest condition--are not so much in the modern
sense essays as collections of thoughts more or less connected. We have, indeed, the genesis
of them in the very interesting commonplace book called the Promus [butler or storekeeper]
of Elegancies, the publication of which, as a whole, was for some reason or other not undertaken
by Mr. Spedding, and is due to Mrs. Henry Pott. Here we have the quaint, but never merely quaint,
analogies, the apt quotations, the singular flashes of reflection and illustration, which characterise
Bacon, in their most unformed and new-born condition. In the Essays they are worked together,
but still sententiously, and evidently with no attempt at sustained and fluent connection of
style. That Montaigne must have had some influence on Bacon is, of course, certain; though
few things can be more unlike than the curt severity of the scheme of the English essays and
the interminable diffuseness of the French. Yet here and there are passages in Montaigne which
might almost be the work of a French Bacon, and in Bacon passages which might easily be the
work of an English Montaigne. In both there is the same odd mixture of dignity and familiarity--the
familiarity predominating in Montaigne, the dignity in Bacon--and in both there is the union
of a rich fancy and a profound interest in ethical questions, with a curious absence of passion
and enthusiasm--a touch, as it may almost be called, of Philistinism, which in Bacon's case
contrasts most strangely with his frequently gorgeous language, and the evident richness of
his imagination, or at least his fancy.

The scheme and manner of these essays naturally induced a sententious and almost undeveloped
manner of writing. An extraordinary number of separate phrases and sentences, which have become
the common property of all who use the language, and are probably most often used without any
clear idea of their author, may be disinterred from them, as well as many striking images and
pregnant thoughts, which have had less general currency. But the compression of them (which
is often so great that they might be printed sentence by sentence like verses of the Bible)
prevents the author from displaying his command of a consecutive, elaborated, and harmonised
style. What command he had of that style may be found, without looking far, in the Henry the
Seventh, in the Atlantis, and in various minor works, some originally written in Latin and
translated, such as the magnificent passage which Dean Church has selected as describing the
purpose and crown of the Baconian system. In such passages the purely oratorical faculty which
he undoubtedly had (though like all the earlier oratory of England, with rare exceptions, its
examples remain a mere tradition, and hardly even that) displays itself; and one cannot help
regretting that, instead of going into the law, where he never attained to much technical excellence,
and where his mere promotion was at first slow, and was no sooner quickened than it brought
him into difficulties and dangers, he had not sought the safer and calmer haven of the Church,
where he would have been more at leisure to "take all knowledge to be his province;" would
have been less tempted to engage in the treacherous, and to him always but half-congenial,
business of politics, and would have forestalled, and perhaps excelled, Jeremy Taylor as a
sacred orator. If Bacon be Jeremy's inferior in exuberant gorgeousness, he is very much his
superior in order and proportion, and quite his equal in sudden flashes of a quaint but illuminative
rhetoric. For after all that has been said of Bacon and his philosophy, he was a rhetorician
rather than a philosopher. Half the puzzlement which has arisen in the efforts to get something
exact out of the stately periods and splendid promises of the Novum Organum and its companions
has arisen from oversight of this eminently rhetorical character; and this character is the
chief property of his style. It may seem presumptuous to extend the charges of want of depth
which were formulated by good authorities in law and physics against Bacon in his own day,
yet he is everywhere "not deep." He is stimulating beyond the recorded power of any other man
except Socrates; he is inexhaustible in analogy and illustration, full of wise saws, and of
instances as well ancient as modern. But he is by no means an accurate expositor, still less
a powerful reasoner, and his style is exactly suited to his mental gifts; now luminously fluent,
now pregnantly brief; here just obscure enough to kindle the reader's desire of penetrating
the obscurity, there flashing with ornament which perhaps serves to conceal a flaw in the reasoning,
but which certainly serves to allure and retain the attention of the student. All these characteristics
are the characteristics rather of the great orator than of the great philosopher. His constant
practice in every kind of literary composition, and in the meditative thought which constant
literary composition perhaps sometimes tempts its practitioners to dispense with, enabled him
to write on a vast variety of subjects, and in many different styles. But of these it will
always be found that two were most familiar to him, the short sententious apothegm, parallel,
or image, which suggests and stimulates even when it does not instruct, and the half-hortatory
half-descriptive discours d'ouverture, where the writer is the unwearied panegyrist of promised
lands not perhaps to be identified with great ease on any chart.[38]

[38] Of Bacon in prose, as of Spenser, Shakespere, and Milton in verse, it does not seem necessary
to give extracts, and for the same reason.

A parallel in the Plutarchian manner between Bacon and Raleigh would in many ways be pleasant,
but only one point of it concerns us here,--that both had been happier and perhaps had done
greater things had they been simple men of letters. Unlike Bacon, who, though he wrote fair
verse, shows no poetical bent, Raleigh was homo utriusque linguæ, and his works in verse, unequal
as they are, occasionally touch the loftiest summits of poetry. It is very much the same in
his prose. His minor books, mostly written hurriedly, and for a purpose, have hardly any share
of the graces of style; and his masterpiece, the famous History of the World, is made up of
short passages of the most extraordinary beauty, and long stretches of monotonous narration
and digression, showing not much grace of style, and absolutely no sense of proportion or skill
in arrangement. The contrast is so strange that some have sought to see in the undoubted facts
that Raleigh, in his tedious prison labours, had assistants and helpers (Ben Jonson among others),
a reason for the superior excellence of such set pieces as the Preface, the Epilogue, and others,
which are scattered about the course of the work. But independently of the other fact that
excellence of the most diverse kind meets us at every turn, though it also deserts us at every
turn, in Raleigh's varied literary work, and that it would be absurd to attribute all these
passages to some "affable familiar ghost," there is the additional difficulty that in none
of his reported helpers' own work do the peculiar graces of the purple passages of the History
occur. The immortal descant on mortality with which the book closes, and which is one of the
highest achievements of English prose, is not in the least like Jonson, not in the least like
Selden, not in the least like any one of whose connection with Raleigh there is record. Donne
might have written it; but there is not the smallest reason for supposing that he did, and
many for being certain that he did not. Therefore, it is only fair to give Raleigh himself
the credit for this and all other passages of the kind. Their character and, at the same time,
their comparative rarity are both easily explicable. They are all obviously struck off in moments
of excitement--moments when the writer's variable and fanciful temperament was heated to flashing-point
and gave off almost spontaneously these lightnings of prose as it gave, on other occasions,
such lightnings of poetry as The Faërie Queene sonnet, as "the Lie," and as the other strange
jewels (cats' eyes and opals, rather than pearls or diamonds), which are strung along with
very many common pebbles on Raleigh's poetical necklace. In style they anticipate Browne (who
probably learnt not a little from them) more than any other writer; and they cannot fairly
be said to have been anticipated by any Englishman. The low and stately music of their cadences
is a thing, except in Browne, almost unique, and it is not easy to trace it to any peculiar
mannerism of vocabulary or of the arrangement of words. But Raleigh's usual style differs very
little from that of other men of his day, who kept clear at once of euphuism and burlesque.
Being chiefly narrative, it is rather plainer than Hooker, who has some few points of resemblance
with Raleigh, but considerably freer from the vices of desultoriness and awkward syntax, than
most writers of the day except Hooker. But its most interesting characteristic to the student
of literature must always be the way in which it leads up to, without in the least foretelling,
the bursts of eloquence already referred to. Even Milton's alternations of splendid imagery
with dull and scurrilous invective, are hardly so strange as Raleigh's changes from jog-trot
commonplace to almost inspired declamation, if only for the reason that they are much more
intelligible. It must also be mentioned that Raleigh, like Milton, seems to have had little
or no humour.

The opening and closing passages of the History are almost universally known; a quainter, less
splendid, but equally characteristic one may be given here though Mr. Arber has already extracted
it:--

     "The four complexions resemble the four elements; and the seven
     ages of man, the seven planets. Whereof our infancy is compared
     to the moon; in which we seem only to live and grow, as plants.

     "The second age, to Mercury; wherein we are taught and
     instructed.

     "Our third age, to Venus; the days of Love, Desire and Vanity.

     "The fourth, to the Sun; the strong, flourishing and beautiful
     age of man's life.

     "The fifth, to Mars; in which we seek honour and victory; and in
     which our thoughts travel to ambitious ends.

     "The sixth age is ascribed to Jupiter; in which we begin to take
     account of our times, judge of ourselves, and grow to the
     perfection of our understanding.

     "The last and seventh, to Saturn; wherein our days are sad and
     overcast; and in which we find by dear and lamentable experience,
     and by the loss which can never be repaired, that, of all our
     vain passions and affections past, the sorrow only abideth. Our
     attendants are sicknesses and variable infirmities: and by how
     much the more we are accompanied with plenty, by so much the more
     greedily is our end desired. Whom, when Time hath made unsociable
     to others, we become a burden to ourselves: being of no other use
     than to hold the riches we have from our successors. In this time
     it is, when we, for the most part (and never before) prepare for
     our Eternal Habitation, which we pass on unto with many sighs,
     groans and sad thoughts: and in the end (by the workmanship of
     Death) finish the sorrowful business of a wretched life. Towards
     which we always travel, both sleeping and waking. Neither have
     those beloved companions of honour and riches any power at all to
     hold us any one day by the glorious promise of entertainments:
     but by what crooked path soever we walk, the same leadeth on
     directly to the House of Death, whose doors lie open at all
     hours, and to all persons."

But great as are Bacon and Raleigh, they cannot approach, as writers of prose, the company
of scholarly divines who produced--what is probably the greatest prose work in any language--the
Authorised Version of the Bible in English. Now that there is at any rate some fear of this
masterpiece ceasing to be what it has been for three centuries--the school and training ground
of every man and woman of English speech in the noblest uses of English tongue--every one who
values that mother tongue is more especially bound to put on record his own allegiance to it.
The work of the Company appears to have been loyally performed in common; and it is curious
that such an unmatched result should have been the result of labours thus combined, and not,
as far as is known, controlled by any one guiding spirit. Among the translators were many excellent
writers,--an advantage which they possessed in a much higher degree than their revisers in
the nineteenth century, of whom few would be mentioned among the best living writers of English
by any competent authority. But, at the same time, no known translator under James has left
anything which at all equals in strictly literary merit the Authorised Version, as it still
is and as long may it be. The fact is, however, less mysterious after a little examination
than it may seem at first sight. Putting aside all questions as to the intrinsic value of the
subject-matter as out of our province, it will be generally admitted that the translators had
in the greater part of the Old Testament, in a large part of the Apocrypha, and in no small
part of the New Testament, matter as distinguished from form, of very high literary value to
begin with in their originals. In the second place, they had, in the Septuagint and in the
Vulgate, versions also of no small literary merit to help them. In the third place, they had
in the earlier English versions excellent quarries of suitable English terms, if not very accomplished
models of style. These, however, were not in any way advantages peculiar to themselves. The
advantages which, in a manner at least, were peculiar to themselves may be divided into two
classes. They were in the very centre of the great literary ferment of which in this volume
I am striving to give a history as little inadequate as possible. They had in the air around
them an English purged of archaisms and uncouthnesses, fully adapted to every literary purpose,
and yet still racy of the soil, and free from that burden of hackneyed and outworn literary
platitudes and commonplaces with which centuries of voluminous literary production have vitiated
and loaded the English of our own day. They were not afraid of Latinising, but they had an
ample stock of the pure vernacular to draw on. These things may be classed together. On the
other side, but equally healthful, may be put the fact that the style and structure of the
originals and earlier versions, and especially that verse division which has been now so unwisely
abandoned, served as safeguards against the besetting sin of all prose writers of their time,
the habit of indulging in long wandering sentences, in paragraphs destitute of proportion and
of grace, destitute even of ordinary manageableness and shape. The verses saved them from that
once for all; while on the other hand their own taste, and the help given by the structure
of the original in some cases, prevented them from losing sight of the wood for the trees,
and omitting to consider the relation of verse to verse, as well as the antiphony of the clauses
within the verse. Men without literary faculty might no doubt have gone wrong; but these were
men of great literary faculty, whose chief liabilities to error were guarded against precisely
by the very conditions in which they found their work. The hour had come exactly, and so for
once had the men.

The result of their labours is so universally known that it is not necessary to say very much
about it; but the mere fact of the universal knowledge carries with it a possibility of under-valuation.
In another place, dealing with the general subject of English prose style, I have selected
the sixth and seventh verses of the eighth chapter of Solomon's Song as the best example known
to me of absolutely perfect English prose--harmonious, modulated, yet in no sense trespassing
the limits of prose and becoming poetry. I have in the same place selected, as a companion
passage from a very different original, the Charity passage of the First Epistle to the Corinthians,
which has been so miserably and wantonly mangled and spoilt by the bad taste and ignorance
of the late revisers. I am tempted to dwell on this because it is very germane to our subject.
One of the blunders which spoils this passage in the Revised Version is the pedantic substitution
of "mirror" for "glass," it having apparently occurred to some wiseacre that glass was not
known to the ancients, or at least used for mirrors. Had this wiseacre had the slightest knowledge
of English literature, a single title of Gascoigne's, "The Steel Glass," would have dispensed
him at once from any attempt at emendation; but this is ever and always the way of the sciolist.
Fortunately such a national possession as the original Authorised Version, when once multiplied
and dispersed by the press, is out of reach of vandalism. The improved version, constructed
on very much the same principle as Davenant's or Ravenscroft's improvements on Shakespere,
may be ordered to be read in churches, and substituted for purposes of taking oaths. But the
original (as it may be called in no burlesque sense such as that of a famous story) will always
be the text resorted to by scholars and men of letters for purposes of reading, and will remain
the authentic lexicon, the recognised source of English words and constructions of the best
period. The days of creation; the narratives of Joseph and his brethren, of Ruth, of the final
defeat of Ahab, of the discomfiture of the Assyrian host of Sennacherib; the moral discourses
of Ecclesiastes and Ecclesiasticus and the Book of Wisdom; the poems of the Psalms and the
prophets; the visions of the Revelation,--a hundred other passages which it is unnecessary
to catalogue,--will always be the ne plus ultra of English composition in their several kinds,
and the storehouse from which generation after generation of writers, sometimes actually hostile
to religion and often indifferent to it, will draw the materials, and not unfrequently the
actual form of their most impassioned and elaborate passages. Revision after revision, constructed
in corrupt following of the transient and embarrassed phantoms of ephemeral fashion in scholarship,
may sink into the Great Mother of Dead Dogs after setting right a tense here, and there transferring
a rendering from text to margin or from margin to text. But the work of the unrevised version
will remain unaffected by each of these futile exercitations. All the elements, all the circumstances
of a translation as perfect as can be accomplished in any circumstances and with any elements,
were then present, and the workers were worthy of the work. The plays of Shakespere and the
English Bible are, and will ever be, the twin monuments not merely of their own period, but
of the perfection of English, the complete expressions of the literary capacities of the language,
at the time when it had lost none of its pristine vigour, and had put on enough but not too
much of the adornments and the limitations of what may be called literary civilisation.

The boundary between the prose of this period and that which we shall treat later as "Caroline"
is not very clearly fixed. Some men, such as Hall and Donne, whose poetical work runs parallel
to that in prose which we are now noticing, come as prose writers rather under the later date;
others who continued to write till long after Elizabeth's death, and even after that of James,
seem, by their general complexion, to belong chiefly to the earlier day. The first of these
is Ben Jonson, whose high reputation in other ways has somewhat unduly damaged, or at least
obscured, his merits as a prose writer. His two chief works in this kind are his English Grammar,
in which a sound knowledge of the rules of English writing is discovered, and the quaintly
named Explorata or Discoveries and Timber--a collection of notes varying from a mere aphorism
to a respectable essay. In these latter a singular power of writing prose appears. The book
was not published till after Ben's death, and is thought to have been in part at least written
during the last years of his life. But there can be no greater contrast than exists between
the prose style usual at that time--a style tourmenté, choked with quotation, twisted in every
direction by allusion and conceit, and marred by perpetual confusions of English with classical
grammar--and the straightforward, vigorous English of these Discoveries. They come, in character
as in time, midway between Hooker and Dryden, and they incline rather to the more than to the
less modern form. Here is found the prose character of Shakespere which, if less magniloquent
than that in verse, has a greater touch of sheer sincerity. Here, too, is an admirable short
tractate on Style which exemplifies what it preaches; and a large number of other excellent
things. Some, it is true, are set down in a shorthand fashion as if (which doubtless they were)
they were commonplace-book notes for working up in due season. But others and perhaps the majority
(they all Baconian-wise have Latin titles, though only one or two have the text in Latin) are
written with complete attention to literary presentment; seldom though sometimes relapsing
into loose construction of sentences and paragraphs, the besetting sin of the day, and often
presenting, as in the following, a model of sententious but not dry form:--

     "We should not protect our sloth with the patronage of
     difficulty. It is a false quarrel against nature that she helps
     understanding but in a few, when the most part of mankind are
     inclined by her thither, if they would take the pains; no less
     than birds to fly, horses to run, etc., which if they lose it is
     through their own sluggishness, and by that means become her
     prodigies, not her children. I confess nature in children is more
     patient of labour in study than in age; for the sense of the
     pain, the judgment of the labour is absent, they do not measure
     what they have done. And it is the thought and consideration that
     affects us more than the weariness itself. Plato was not content
     with the learning that Athens could give him, but sailed into
     Italy, for Pythagoras' knowledge: and yet not thinking himself
     sufficiently informed, went into Egypt, to the priests, and
     learned their mysteries. He laboured, so must we. Many things may
     be learned together and performed in one point of time; as
     musicians exercise their memory, their voice, their fingers, and
     sometimes their head and feet at once. And so a preacher, in the
     invention of matter, election of words, composition of gesture,
     look, pronunciation, motion, useth all these faculties at once:
     and if we can express this variety together, why should not
     divers studies, at divers hours, delight, when the variety is
     able alone to refresh and repair us? As when a man is weary of
     writing, to read; and then again of reading, to write. Wherein,
     howsoever we do many things, yet are we (in a sort) still fresh
     to what we begin; we are recreated with change as the stomach is
     with meats. But some will say, this variety breeds confusion, and
     makes that either we lose all or hold no more than the last. Why
     do we not then persuade husbandmen that they should not till
     land, help it with marle, lime, and compost? plant hop gardens,
     prune trees, look to beehives, rear sheep, and all other cattle
     at once? It is easier to do many things and continue, than to do
     one thing long."

No other single writer until we come to the pamphleteers deserves separate or substantive mention;
but in many divisions of literature there were practitioners who, if they have not kept much
notoriety as masters of style, were well thought of even in that respect in their day, and
were long authorities in point of matter. The regular theological treatises of the time present
nothing equal to Hooker, who in part overlapped it, though the Jesuit Parsons has some name
for vigorous writing. In history, Knolles, the historian of the Turks, and Sandys, the Eastern
traveller and sacred poet, bear the bell for style among their fellows, such as Hayward, Camden,
Spelman, Speed, and Stow. Daniel the poet, a very good prose writer in his way, was also a
historian of England, but his chief prose work was his Defence of Rhyme. He had companions
in the critical task; but it is curious and by no means uninstructive to notice, that the immense
creative production of the time seems to have to a great extent smothered the theoretic and
critical tendency which, as yet not resulting in actual performance, betrayed itself at the
beginning of the period in Webbe and Puttenham, in Harvey and Sidney. The example of Eden in
collecting and Englishing travels and voyages was followed by several writers, of whom two,
successively working and residing, the elder at Oxford, and the younger at Cambridge, made
the two greatest collections of the kind in the language for interest of matter, if not for
perfection of style. These were Richard Hakluyt and Samuel Purchas, a venerable pair. The perhaps
overpraised, but still excellent Characters of the unfortunate Sir Thomas Overbury and the
prose works, such as the Counterblast and Demonology, of James I., are books whose authors
have made them more famous than their intrinsic merits warrant, and in the various collections
of "works" of the day, older and newer, we shall find examples nearly as miscellaneous as those
of the class of writers now to be noticed. Of all this miscellaneous work it is impossible
to give examples, but one critical passage from Daniel, and one descriptive from Hakluyt may
serve:--

     "Methinks we should not so soon yield up our consents captive to
     the authority of antiquity, unless we saw more reason; all our
     understandings are not to be built by the square of Greece and
     Italy. We are the children of nature as well as they, we are not
     so placed out of the way of judgment but that the same sun of
     discretion shineth upon us; we have our portion of the same
     virtues, as well as of the same vices, et Catilinam quocunque in
     populo videas, quocunque sub axe. Time and the turn of things
     bring about these faculties according to the present estimation;
     and, res temporibus, non tempore rebus servire opportet. So that
     we must never rebel against use; quem penes arbitrium est, et vis
     et norma loquendi. It is not the observing of trochaics nor their
     iambics, that will make our writings aught the wiser: all their
     poesy and all their philosophy is nothing, unless we bring the
     discerning light of conceit with us to apply it to use. It is not
     books, but only that great book of the world, and the
     all-overspreading grace of Heaven that makes men truly judicial.
     Nor can it but touch of arrogant ignorance to hold this or that
     nation barbarous, these or those times gross, considering how
     this manifold creature man, wheresoever he stand in the world,
     hath always some disposition of worth, entertains the order of
     society, affects that which is most in use, and is eminent in
     some one thing or other that fits his humour or the times. The
     Grecians held all other nations barbarous but themselves; yet
     Pyrrhus, when he saw the well ordered marching of the Romans,
     which made them see their presumptuous error, could say it was no
     barbarous manner of proceeding. The Goths, Vandals, and
     Longobards, whose coming down like an inundation overwhelmed, as
     they say, all the glory of learning in Europe, have yet left us
     still their laws and customs, as the originals of most of the
     provincial constitutions of Christendom; which, well considered
     with their other courses of government, may serve to clear them
     from this imputation of ignorance. And though the vanquished
     never speak well of the conqueror, yet even through the unsound
     coverings of malediction appear these monuments of truth, as
     argue well their worth, and proves them not without judgment,
     though without Greek and Latin."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "To speak somewhat of these islands, being called, in old time,
     Insulæ fortunæ, by the means of the flourishing thereof. The
     fruitfulness of them doth surely exceed far all other that I have
     heard of. For they make wine better then any in Spain: and they
     have grapes of such bigness that they may be compared to damsons,
     and in taste inferior to none. For sugar, suckets, raisons of the
     sun, and many other fruits, abundance: for rosin, and raw silk,
     there is great store. They want neither corn, pullets, cattle,
     nor yet wild fowl.

     "They have many camels also: which, being young, are eaten of the
     people for victuals; and being old, they are used for carriage of
     necessities. Whose property is, as he is taught, to kneel at the
     taking of his load, and the unlading again; of understanding very
     good, but of shape very deformed; with a little belly; long
     misshapen legs; and feet very broad of flesh, without a hoof, all
     whole saving the great toe; a back bearing up like a molehill, a
     large and thin neck, with a little head, with a bunch of hard
     flesh which Nature hath given him in his breast to lean upon.
     This beast liveth hardly, and is contented with straw and
     stubble; but of strong force, being well able to carry five
     hundredweight.

     "In one of these islands called Ferro, there is, by the reports
     of the inhabitants, a certain tree which raineth continually; by
     the dropping whereof the inhabitants and cattle are satisfied
     with water: for other water have they none in all the island. And
     it raineth in such abundance that it were incredible unto a man
     to believe such a virtue to be in a tree; but it is known to be a
     Divine matter, and a thing ordained by God: at Whose power
     therein, we ought not to marvel, seeing He did, by His Providence
     (as we read in the Scriptures) when the Children of Israel were
     going into the Land of Promise, feed them with manna from heaven,
     for the space of forty years. Of these trees aforesaid, we saw in
     Guinea many; being of great height, dropping continually; but not
     so abundantly as the other, because the leaves are narrower and
     are like the leaves of a pear tree. About these islands are
     certain flitting islands, which have been oftentimes seen; and
     when men approach near them, they vanished: as the like hath been
     of these now known (by the report of the inhabitants) which were
     not found but of a long time, one after the other; and,
     therefore, it should seem he is not yet born, to whom God hath
     appointed the finding of them.

     "In this island of Teneriff, there is a hill called the Pike,
     because it is piked; which is, in height, by their report, twenty
     leagues: having, both winter and summer, abundance of snow on the
     top of it. This Pike may be seen, in a clear day, fifty leagues
     off; but it sheweth as though it were a black cloud a great
     height in the element. I have heard of none to be compared with
     this in height; but in the Indies I have seen many, and, in my
     judgment, not inferior to the Pike: and so the Spaniards write."

One of the most remarkable developments of English prose at the time, and one which has until
very recently been almost inaccessible, except in a few examples, to the student who has not
the command of large libraries, while even by such students it has seldom been thoroughly examined,
is the abundant and very miscellaneous collection of what are called, for want of a better
name, Pamphlets. The term is not too happy, but there is no other (except the still less happy
Miscellany) which describes the thing. It consists of a vast mass of purely popular literature,
seldom written with any other aim than that of the modern journalist. That is to say, it was
written to meet a current demand, to deal with subjects for one reason or other interesting
at the moment, and, as a matter of course, to bring in some profit to the writer. These pamphlets
are thus as destitute of any logical community of subject as the articles which compose a modern
newspaper--a production the absence of which they no doubt supplied, and of which they were
in a way the forerunners. Attempts to classify their subjects could only end in a hopeless
cross division. They are religious very often; political very seldom (for the fate of the luckless
Stubbes in his dealings with the French marriage was not suited to attract); politico-religious
in at least the instance of one famous group, the so-called Martin Marprelate Controversy;
moral constantly; in very many, especially the earlier instances, narrative, and following
to a large extent in the steps of Lyly and Sidney; besides a large class of curious tracts
dealing with the manners, and usually the bad side of the manners, of the town. Of the vast
miscellaneous mass of these works by single unimportant or unknown authors it is almost impossible
to give any account here, though valuable instances will be found of them in Mr. Arber's English
Garner. But the works of the six most important individual writers of them--Greene, Nash, Harvey,
Dekker, Lodge, Breton (to whom might be added the verse-pamphleteer, but in no sense poet,
Rowlands)--are luckily now accessible as wholes, Lodge and Rowlands having been published,
or at least privately printed for subscribers, by the Hunterian Club of Glasgow, and the other
five by the prolific industry of Dr. Grosart. The reprints of Petheram and of Mr. Arber, with
new editions of Lyly and others, have made most of the Marprelate tracts accessible. Some notice
of these collections will not only give a fair idea of the entire miscellaneous prose of the
Elizabethan period, but will also fill a distinct gap in most histories of it. It will not
be necessary to enter into much personal detail about their authors, for most of them have
been noticed already in other capacities, and of Breton and Rowlands very little indeed is
known. Greene and Lodge stand apart from their fellows in this respect, that their work is,
in some respects at any rate, much more like literature and less like journalism, though by
an odd and apparently perverse chance, this difference has rather hurt than saved it in the
estimation of posterity. For the kind of literature which both wrote in this way has gone out
of fashion, and its purely literary graces are barely sufficient to save it from the point
of view of form; while the bitter personalities of Nash, and the quaint adaptations of bygone
satire to contemporary London life in which Dekker excelled, have a certain lasting interest
of matter. On the other hand, the two companions of Marlowe have the advantage (which they
little anticipated, and would perhaps less have relished) of surviving as illustrations of
Shakespere, of the Shakescene who, decking himself out in their feathers, has by that act rescued
Pandosto and Euphues' Golden Legacy from oblivion by associating them with the immortality
of As You Like It and The Winter's Tale.

Owing to the different forms in which this fleeting and unequal work has been reprinted, it
is not very easy to decide off-hand on the relative bulk of the authors' works. But the palm
in this respect must be divided between Robert Greene and Nicholas Breton, the former of whom
fills eleven volumes of loosely-printed crown octavo, and the latter (in prose only) a thick
quarto of very small and closely-printed double columns. Greene, who began his work early under
the immediate inspiration first of his travels and then of Lyly's Euphues, started, as early
as 1583, with Mamillia, a Looking-Glass for the Ladies of England, which, both in general character
and in peculiarities of style, is an obvious copy of Euphues. The Mirror of Modesty is more
of a lay sermon, based on the story of Susanna. The Tritameron of Love is a dialogue without
action, but Arbasto, or the Anatomie of Fortune returns to the novel form, as does The Card
of Fancy. Planetomachia is a collection of stories, illustrating the popular astrological notions,
with an introduction on astrology generally. Penelope's Web is another collection of stories,
but The Spanish Masquerado is one of the most interesting of the series. Written just at the
time of the Armada, it is pure journalism--a livre de circonstance composed to catch the popular
temper with aid of a certain actual knowledge, and a fair amount of reading. Then Greene returned
to euphuism in Menaphon, and in Euphues, his Censure to Philautus; nor are Perimedes the Blacksmith
and Tully's Love much out of the same line. The Royal Exchange again deviates, being a very
quaint collection, quaintly arranged, of moral maxims, apophthegms, short stories, etc., for
the use of the citizens. Next, the author began the curious series, at first perhaps not very
sincere, but certainly becoming so at last, of half-personal reminiscences and regrets, less
pointed and well arranged than Villon's, but remarkably similar. The first and longest of these
was Greene's Never too Late, with its second part Francesco's Fortunes. Greene's Metamorphosis
is Euphuist once more, and Greene's Mourning Garment and Greene's Farewell to Folly are the
same, with a touch of personality. Then he diverged into the still more curious series on "conny-catching"--rooking,
gulling, cheating, as we should call it. There are five or six of these tracts, and though
there is not a little bookmaking in them, they are unquestionably full of instruction as to
the ways of the time. Philomela returns once more to euphuism, but Greene is soon back again
with A Quip for an Upstart Courtier, a piece of social satire, flying rather higher than his
previous attempts. The zigzag is kept up in Orpharion, the last printed (at least in the only
edition now known) of the author's works during his lifetime. Not till after his death did
the best known and most personal of all his works appear, the famous Groat's Worth of Wit Bought
with a Million of Repentance, in which the "Shakescene" passage and the exhortation to his
friends to repentance occur. Two more tracts in something the same style--Greene's Repentance
and Greene's Vision--followed. Their genuineness has been questioned, but seems to be fairly
certain.

This full list--to which must be added the already mentioned Pandosto, the Triumph of Time,
or Dorastus and Fawnia, and the translated Debate between Folly and Love--of a certainly not
scanty life-work (Greene died when he was quite a young man, and wrote plays besides) has been
given, because it is not only the earliest, but perhaps the most characteristic of the whole.
Despite the apparently unsuitable forms, it is evident that the writer is striving, without
knowing it, at what we call journalism. But fashion and the absence of models cramp and distort
his work. Its main features are to be found in the personal and satirical pieces, in the vivid
and direct humanity of some touches in the euphuist tract-romances, in the delightful snatches
of verse which intersperse and relieve the heterogeneous erudition, the clumsy dialogue, and
the rococo style. The two following extracts give, the first a specimen of Greene's ornate
and Euphuist style from Orpharion, the second a passage from his autobiographical or semi-autobiographical
confessions in the Groat's Worth:--

     "I am Lydia that renowned Princess, whose never matched beauty
     seemed like the gorgeous pomp of Phoebus, too bright for the day:
     rung so strongly out of the trump of Fame as it filled every ear
     with wonder: Daughter to Astolpho, the King of Lydia: who thought
     himself not so fortunate for his diadem, sith other kings could
     boast of crowns, nor for his great possessions, although endued
     with large territories, as happy that he had a daughter whose
     excellency in favour stained Venus, whose austere chastity set
     Diana to silence with a blush. Know whatsoever thou art that
     standest attentive to my tale, that the ruddiest rose in all
     Damasco, the whitest lilies in the creeks of Danuby, might not if
     they had united their native colours, but have bashed at the
     vermilion stain, flourish'd upon the pure crystal of my face: the
     Marguerites of the western Indies, counted more bright and rich
     than that which Cleopatra quaffed to Anthony, the coral highest
     in his pride upon the Afric shores, might well be graced to
     resemble my teeth and lips, but never honoured to overreach my
     pureness. Remaining thus the mirror of the world, and nature's
     strangest miracle, there arrived in our Court a Thracian knight,
     of personage tall, proportioned in most exquisite form, his face
     but too fair for his qualities, for he was a brave and a resolute
     soldier. This cavalier coming amongst divers others to see the
     royalty of the state of Lydia, no sooner had a glance of my
     beauty, but he set down his staff, resolving either to perish in
     so sweet a labyrinth, or in time happily to stumble out with
     Theseus. He had not stayed long in my father's court, but he
     shewed such knightly deeds of chivalry amongst the nobility,
     lightened with the extraordinary sparks of a courageous mind,
     that not only he was liked and loved of all the chief peers of
     the realms, but the report of his valour coming to my father's
     ears, he was highly honoured of him, and placed in short time as
     General of his warlike forces by land. Resting in this estimation
     with the king, preferment was no means to quiet his mind, for
     love had wounded so deep, as honour by no means might remedy,
     that as the elephants can hardly be haled from the sight of the
     waste, or the roe buck from gazing at red cloth, so there was no
     object that could so much allure the wavering eyes of this
     Thracian called Acestes, as the surpassing beauty of the Princess
     Lydia, yea, so deeply he doted, that as the Chameleon gorgeth
     herself with gazing into the air, so he fed his fancy with
     staring on the heavenly face of his Goddess, so long dallying in
     the flame, that he scorched his wings and in time consumed his
     whole body. Being thus passionate, having none so familiar as he
     durst make his confidant he fell thus to debate with himself."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On the other side of the hedge sat one that heard his sorrow,
     who getting over, came towards him, and brake off his passion.
     When he approached, he saluted Roberto in this sort: Gentleman,
     quoth he (for so you seem) I have by chance heard you discourse
     some part of your grief; which appeareth to be more than you will
     discover, or I can conceit. But if you vouchsafe such simple
     comfort as my ability will yield, assure yourself, that I will
     endeavour to do the best, that either may procure your profit, or
     bring you pleasure: the rather, for that I suppose you are a
     scholar, and pity it is men of learning should live in lack.

     "Roberto wondering to hear such good words, for that this iron
     age affords few that esteem of virtue; returned him thankful
     gratulations and (urged by necessity) uttered his present grief,
     beseeching his advice how he might be employed. 'Why, easily,'
     quoth he, 'and greatly to your benefit: for men of my profession
     get by scholars their whole living.' 'What is your profession?'
     said Roberto. 'Truly, sir,' said he, 'I am a player.' 'A player!'
     quoth Roberto. 'I took you rather for a gentleman of great
     living, for if by outward habit men should be censured, I tell
     you, you would be taken for a substantial man.' 'So am I, where I
     dwell' (quoth the player) 'reputed able, at my proper cost, to
     build a windmill. What though the world once went hard with me,
     when I was fain to carry my playing fardel a foot-back; Tempora
     mutantur, I know you know the meaning of it better than I, but I
     thus construe it; it is otherwise now; for my very share in
     playing apparel will not be sold for two hundred pounds.' 'Truly'
     (said Roberto) 'it is strange that you should so prosper in that
     vain practise, for that it seems to me your voice is nothing
     gracious.' 'Nay, then,' said the player, 'I mislike your
     judgment: why, I am as famous for Delphrigas, and the King of
     Fairies, as ever was any of my time. The twelve labours of
     Hercules have I terribly thundered on the stage, and placed three
     scenes of the devil on the highway to heaven.' 'Have ye so?'
     (said Roberto) 'then I pray you, pardon me.' 'Nay more' (quoth
     the player) 'I can serve to make a pretty speech, for I was a
     country author, passing at a moral, for it was I that penn'd the
     moral of man's wit, the Dialogue of Dives, and for seven years'
     space was absolute interpreter of the puppets. But now my
     Almanach is out of date.

    The people make no estimation
    Of morals teaching education.

     Was not this pretty for a plain rhyme extempore? if ye will ye
     shall have more.' 'Nay, it is enough,' said Roberto, 'but how
     mean you to use me?' 'Why, sir, in making plays,' said the other,
     'for which you shall be well paid, if you will take the pains.'"

These same characteristics, though without the prevailing and in part obviously sincere melancholy
which marks Greene's regrets, also distinguish Lodge's prose work to such an extent that remarks
on the two might sometimes be made simply interchangeable. But fortune was kinder to Lodge
than to his friend and collaborator. Nor does he seem to have had any occasion to "tread the
burning marl" in company with conny-catchers and their associates. Lodge began with critical
and polemical work--an academic if not very urbane reply to Stephen Gosson's School of Abuse;
but in the Alarum against Usurers, which resembles and even preceded Greene's similar work,
he took to the satirical-story-form. Indeed, the connection between Lodge and Greene was so
close, and the difficulty of ascertaining the exact dates of their compositions is so great,
that it is impossible to be sure which was the precise forerunner. Certainly if Lodge set Greene
an example in the Alarum against Usurers, he followed Greene's lead in Forbonius and Prisceria
some years afterwards, having written it on shipboard in a venture against the Spaniards. Lodge
produced much the most famous book of the euphuist school, next to Euphues itself, as well
as the best known of this pamphlet series, in Rosalynde or Euphues' Golden Legacy, from which
Shakespere took the story of As You Like It, and of which an example follows:--

     "'Ah Phoebe,' quoth he, 'whereof art thou made, that thou
     regardest not thy malady? Am I so hateful an object, that thine
     eyes condemn me for an abject? or so base, that thy desires
     cannot stoop so low as to lend me a gracious look? My passions
     are many, my loves more, my thoughts loyalty, and my fancy faith:
     all devoted in humble devoir to the service of Phoebe; and shall
     I reap no reward for such fealties? The swain's daily labours is
     quit with the evening's hire, the ploughman's toil is eased with
     the hope of corn, what the ox sweats out at the plough he
     fatteneth at the crib: but unfortunate Montanus[39] hath no salve
     for his sorrows, nor any hope of recompense for the hazard of his
     perplexed passions. If Phoebe, time may plead the proof of my
     truth, twice seven winters have I loved fair Phoebe: if constancy
     be a cause to further my suit, Montanus' thoughts have been
     sealed in the sweet of Phoebe's excellence, as far from change as
     she from love: if outward passions may discover inward
     affections, the furrows in my face may discover the sorrows of my
     heart, and the map of my looks the grief of my mind. Thou seest
     (Phoebe) the tears of despair have made my cheeks full of
     wrinkles, and my scalding sighs have made the air echo her pity
     conceived in my plaints; Philomel hearing my passions, hath left
     her mournful tunes to listen to the discourse of miseries. I have
     portrayed in every tree the beauty of my mistress, and the
     despair of my loves. What is it in the woods cannot witness my
     woes? and who is it would not pity my plaints? only Phoebe. And
     why? Because I am Montanus, and she Phoebe: I a worthless swain,
     and she the most excellent of all fairies. Beautiful Phoebe! oh
     might I say pitiful, then happy were I though I tasted but one
     minute of that good hap. Measure Montanus, not by his fortunes,
     but by his loves, and balance not his wealth but his desires, and
     lend but one gracious look to cure a heap of disquieted cares: if
     not, ah if Phoebe cannot love, let a storm of frowns end the
     discontent of my thoughts, and so let me perish in my desires,
     because they are above my deserts: only at my death this favour
     cannot be denied me, that all shall say Montanus died for love of
     hard hearted Phoebe.' At these words she filled her face full of
     frowns and made him this short and sharp reply.

     "'Importunate shepherd, whose loves are lawless because restless:
     are thy passions so extreme, that thou canst not conceal them
     with patience? or art thou so folly-sick, that thou must needs be
     fancy-sick, and in thy affection tied to such an exigent as none
     serves but Phoebe? Well, sir, if your market can be made nowhere
     else, home again, for your mart is at the fairest. Phoebe is no
     lettuce for your lips, and her grapes hang so high, that gaze at
     them you may, but touch them you cannot. Yet Montanus I speak not
     this in pride, but in disdain: not that I scorn thee, but that I
     hate love: for I count it as great honour to triumph over fancy
     as over fortune. Rest thee content therefore Montanus, cease from
     thy loves, and bridle thy looks, quench the sparkles before they
     grow to a farther flame; for in loving me, thou shalt but live by
     loss, and what thou utterest in words are all written in the
     wind. Wert thou (Montanus) as fair as Paris, as hardy as Hector,
     as constant as Troilus, as loving as Leander, Phoebe could not
     love, because she cannot love at all: and therefore if thou
     pursue me with Phoebus, I must flie with Daphne.'"

[39] The Silvius, it may be just necessary to observe, of As You Like It.

This book seems to have been very successful, and Lodge began to write pamphlets vigorously,
sometimes taking up the social satire, sometimes the moral treatise, sometimes (and then most
happily) the euphuist romance, salted with charming poems. His last prose work in this kind
(he wrote other things later) was the pretty and prettily-named Margarite of America, in 1596.

The names of Nash and Harvey are intertwined even more closely than those of Greene and Lodge;
but the conjunction is not a grasp of friendship but a grip of hatred--a wrestle, not an embrace.
The fact of the quarrel has attracted rather disproportionate attention from the days of Isaac
Disraeli onwards; and its original cause is still extremely obscure and very unimportant. By
some it is connected, causally as well as accidentally, with the Martin Marprelate business;
by some with the fact that Harvey belonged to the inner Sidneian clique, Nash to the outer
ring of professional journalists and Bohemians. It at any rate produced some remarkable varieties
of the pamphlet, and demonstrated the keen interest which the world takes in the proceedings
of any couple of literary men who choose to abuse and befoul one another. Harvey, though no
mean scholar, was in mere writing no match for Nash; and his chief answer to the latter, Pierce's
Supererogation, is about as rambling, incoherent, and ineffective a combination of pedantry
and insolence as need be wished for. It has some not uninteresting, though usually very obscure,
hints on literary matters. Besides this, Harvey wrote letters to Spenser with their well-known
criticism and recommendation of classical forms, and Foure Letters Touching Robert Greene and
Others: with the Trimming of Thomas Nash, Gentleman. A sample of him, not in his abusive-dull,
but in his scholarly-dull manner, may be given:--

     "Mine own rules and precepts of art, I believe will fall out not
     greatly repugnant, though peradventure somewhat different: and
     yet I am not so resolute, but I can be content to reserve the
     copying out and publishing thereof, until I have a little better
     consulted with my pillow, and taken some further advice of Madame
     Sperienza. In the mean time, take this for a general caveat, and
     say I have revealed one great mystery unto you: I am of opinion,
     there is no one more regular and justifiable direction, either
     for the assured and infallible certainty of our English
     artificial prosody particularly, or generally to bring our
     language into art, and to frame a grammar or rhetoric thereof;
     than first of all universally to agree upon one and the same
     orthography in all points conformable and proportionate to our
     common natural prosody: whether Sir Thomas Smithies in that
     respect be the most perfit, as surely it must needs be very good;
     or else some other of profounder learning and longer experience,
     than Sir Thomas was, shewing by necessary demonstration, wherein
     he is defective, will undertake shortly to supply his wants and
     make him more absolute. Myself dare not hope to hop after him,
     till I see something or other, to or fro, publicly and
     authentically established, as it were by a general council, or
     Act of Parliament: and then peradventure, standing upon firmer
     ground, for company sake, I may adventure to do as others do.
     Interim, credit me, I dare give no precepts, nor set down any
     certain general art: and yet see my boldness, I am not greatly
     squeamish of my Particular Examples, whereas he that can but
     reasonably skill of the one, will give easily a shrewd guess at
     the other: considering that the one fetcheth his original and
     offspring from the other. In which respect, to say troth, we
     beginners have the start, and advantage of our followers, who are
     to frame and conform both their examples and precepts, according
     to precedent which they have of us: as no doubt Homer or some
     other in Greek, and Ennius, or I know not who else in Latin, did
     prejudice, and overrule those that followed them, as well for
     the quantities of syllables, as number of feet, and the like:
     their only examples going for current payment, and standing
     instead of laws, and rules with the posterity."

In Harvey, more perhaps than anywhere else in prose, appears the abusive exaggeration, not
humorous or Rabelaisian, but simply rancorous and dull, which mars so much Elizabethan work.
In order not to fall into the same error ourselves, we must abstain from repeating the very
strong language which has sometimes been applied to his treatment of dead men, and such dead
men as Greene and Marlowe, for apparently no other fault than their being friends of his enemy
Nash. It is sufficient to say that Harvey had all the worst traits of "donnishness," without
having apparently any notion of that dignity which sometimes half excuses the don. He was emphatically
of Mr. Carlyle's "acrid-quack" genus.

Thomas Nash will himself hardly escape the charge of acridity, but only injustice or want of
discernment will call him a quack. Unlike Harvey, but like Greene and Lodge, he was a verse
as well as a prose writer. But his verse is in comparison unimportant. Nor was he tempted to
intersperse specimens of it in his prose work. The absolutely best part of that work--the Anti-Martinist
pamphlets to be noticed presently--is only attributed to him conjecturally, though the grounds
of attribution are very strong. But his characteristics are fully evident in his undoubted
productions. The first of these in pamphlet form is the very odd thing called Pierce Penniless
[the name by which Nash became known], his Supplication to the Devil. It is a kind of rambling
condemnation of luxury, for the most part delivered in the form of burlesque exhortation, which
the mediæval sermons joyeux had made familiar in all European countries. Probably some allusions
in this refer to Harvey, whose pragmatical pedantry may have in many ways annoyed Nash, a Cambridge
man like himself. At any rate the two soon plunged into a regular battle, the documents of
which on Nash's side are, first a prognostication, something in the style of Rabelais, then
a formal confutation of the Four Letters, and then the famous lampoon entitled Have with you
to Saffron Walden [Harvey's birthplace], of which here is a specimen:--

     "His father he undid to furnish him to the Court once more, where
     presenting himself in all the colours of the rainbow, and a pair
     of moustaches like a black horse tail tied up in a knot, with two
     tufts sticking out on each side, he was asked by no mean
     personage, Unde hæc insania? whence proceedeth this folly or
     madness? and he replied with that weather-beaten piece of a verse
     out of the Grammar, Semel insanivimus omnes, once in our days
     there is none of us but have played the idiots; and so was he
     counted and bade stand by for a Nodgscomb. He that most
     patronized him, prying more searchingly into him, and finding
     that he was more meet to make sport with than any way deeply to
     be employed, with fair words shook him off, and told him he was
     fitter for the University, than for the Court or his turn, and so
     bade God prosper his studies, and sent for another Secretary to
     Oxford.

     "Readers, be merry; for in me there shall want nothing I can do
     to make you merry. You see I have brought the Doctor out of
     request at Court, and it shall cost me a fall, but I will get him
     hooted out of the University too, ere I give him over. What will
     you give me when I bring him upon the Stage in one of the
     principalest Colleges in Cambridge? Lay any wager with me, and I
     will; or if you lay no wager at all, I'll fetch him aloft in
     Pedantius, that exquisite Comedy in Trinity College; where under
     the chief part, from which it took his name, as namely the
     concise and firking finicaldo fine School master, he was full
     drawn and delineated from the sole of his foot to the crown of
     his head. The just manner of his phrase in his Orations and
     Disputations they stuffed his mouth with, and no Buffianism
     throughout his whole books, but they bolstered out his part with;
     as those ragged remnants in his four familiar epistles 'twixt him
     and Senior Immerito, raptim scripta, noste manum et stylum,
     with innumerable other of his rabble-routs: and scoffing his
     Musarum Lachrymæ with Flebo amorem meum etiam musarum
     lachrymis; which, to give it his due, was a more collachrymate
     wretched Treatise than my Piers Penniless, being the pitifulest
     pangs that ever any man's Muse breathed forth. I leave out half;
     not the carrying up of his gown, his nice gait on his pantoffles,
     or the affected accent of his speech, but they personated. And if
     I should reveal all, I think they borrowed his gown to play the
     part in, the more to flout him. Let him deny this (and not damn
     himself) for his life if he can. Let him deny that there was a
     Shew made at Clare Hall of him and his two brothers, called,

        "Tarra, rantantara turba tumultuosa Trigonum
        Tri-Harveyorum Tri-harmonia

     Let him deny that there was another Shew made of the little
     Minnow his brother, Dodrans Dick, at Peter-house called,

        "Duns furens. Dick Harvey in a frensy.

     Whereupon Dick came and broke the College glass windows; and
     Doctor Perne (being then either for himself or deputy
     Vice-Chancellor) caused him to be fetched in, and set in the
     Stocks till the Shew was ended, and a great part of the night
     after."

The Terrors of the Night, a discourse of apparitions, for once, among these oddly-named pieces,
tells a plain story. Its successor, Christ's Tears over Jerusalem, Nash's longest book, is
one of those rather enigmatical expressions of repentance for loose life which were so common
at the time, and which, according to the charity of the reader, may be attributed to real feeling,
to a temporary access of Katzen-jammer, or to downright hypocrisy, bent only on manufacturing
profitable "copy," and varying its style to catch different tastes. The most unfavourable hypothesis
is probably unjust, and a certain tone of sincerity also runs through the next book, The Unfortunate
Traveller, in which Nash, like many others, inveighs against the practice of sending young
Englishmen to be corrupted abroad. It is noteworthy that this (the place of which in the history
of the novel has been rather exaggerated) is the oldest authority for the romance of Surrey
and Geraldine; but it is uncertain whether this was pure invention on Nash's part or not. Nash's
Lenten Stuff is very interesting, being a panegyric on Great Yarmouth and its famous staple
commodity (though Nash was actually born at Lowestoft).

In Nash's work we find a style both of treatment and language entirely different from anything
of Greene's or Lodge's. He has no euphuism, his forte being either extravagant burlesque (in
which the influence of Rabelais is pretty directly perceptible, while he himself acknowledges
indebtedness to some other sources, such as Bullen or Bullein, a dialogue writer of the preceding
generation), or else personal attack, boisterous and unscrupulous, but often most vigorous
and effective. Diffuseness and want of keeping to the point too frequently mar Nash's work;
but when he shakes himself free from them, and goes straight for his enemy or his subject,
he is a singularly forcible writer. In his case more than in any of the others, the journalist
born out of due time is perceptible. He had perhaps not much original message for the world.
But he had eminently the trick both of damaging controversial argument made light to catch
the popular taste, and of easy discussion or narrative. The chief defects of his work would
probably have disappeared of themselves if he had had to write not pamphlets, but articles.
He did, however, what he could; and he is worthy of a place in the history of literature if
only for the sake of Have with you to Saffron Walden--the best example of its own kind to be
found before the end of the seventeenth century, if not the beginning of the eighteenth.

Thomas Dekker was much less of a born prose writer than his half-namesake, Nash. His best work,
unlike Nash's, was done in verse, and, while he was far Nash's superior, not merely in poetical
expression but in creative grasp of character, he was entirely destitute of Nash's incisive
and direct faculty of invective. Nevertheless his work, too, is memorable among the prose work
of the time, and for special reasons. His first pamphlet (according to the peculiarity already
noted in Rowlands's case) is not prose at all, but verse--yet not the verse of which Dekker
had real mastery, being a very lamentable ballad of the destruction of Jerusalem, entitled
Canaan's Calamity (1598). The next, The Wonderful Year, is the account of London in plague
time, and has at least the interest of being comparable with, and perhaps that of having to
some extent inspired, Defoe's famous performance. Then, and of the same date, follows a very
curious piece, the foreign origin of which has not been so generally noticed as that of Dekker's
most famous prose production. The Bachelor's Banquet is in effect only a free rendering of
the immortal fifteenth century satire, assigned on no very solid evidence to Antoine de la
Salle, the Quinze Joyes de Mariage, the resemblance being kept down to the recurrence at the
end of each section of the same phrase, "in Lob's pound," which reproduces the less grotesque
"dans la nasse" of the original. But here, as later, the skill with which Dekker adapts and
brings in telling circumstances appropriate to his own day deserves every acknowledgment. Dekker's
Dreame is chiefly verse and chiefly pious; and then at a date somewhat later than that of our
present period, but connected with it by the fact of authorship, begins a very interesting
series of pieces, more vivid if somewhat less well written than Greene's, and connected with
his "conny-catching" course. The Bellman of London, Lanthorn and Candlelight, A Strange Horse-Race,
The Seven Deadly Sins of London, News from Hell, The Double P.P., and The Gull's Hornbook,
are all pamphlets of this class; the chief interest resting in News from Hell (which, according
to the author's scheme, connects itself with Nash's Pierce Penniless, and is the devil's answer
thereto) and The Gull's Hornbook (1609). This last, the best known of Dekker's work, is an
Englishing of the no less famous Grobianus of Frederick Dedekind, and the same skill of adaptation
which was noticed in The Bachelor's Banquet is observable here. The spirit of these works seems
to have been so popular that Dekker kept it up in The Dead Term [long vacation], Work for Armourers
(which, however, is less particular and connects itself with Nash's sententious work), The
Raven's Almanack, and A Rod for Runaways (1625). The Four Birds of Noah's Ark, which Dr. Grosart
prints last, is of a totally different character, being purely a book of piety. It is thus
inferior in interest to the series dealing with the low life of London, which contains most
curious studies of the ancient order of ragamuffins (as a modern satirist has pleasantly called
them), and bears altogether marks of greater sincerity than the parallel studies of other writers.
For about Dekker, hack and penny-a-liner as he undoubtedly was, there was a simplicity, a truth
to nature, and at the same time a faculty of dramatic presentation in which Greene, Lodge,
and Nash were wholly wanting; and his prose pamphlets smack of these good gifts in their measure
as much as The Honest Whore. Indeed, on the whole, he seems to be the most trustworthy of these
chroniclers of the English picaroons; and one feels disposed to believe that if the things
which he tells did not actually happen, something very like them was probably happening every
day in London during the time of "Eliza and our James." For the time of Eliza and our James
was by no means a wholly heroic period, and it only loses, not gains, by the fiction that every
man of letters was a Spenser and every man of affairs a Sidney or even a Raleigh. Extracts
from The Seven Deadly Sins and The Gull's Hornbook may be given:--

     "O Candle-light! and art thou one of the cursed crew? hast thou
     been set at the table of Princes and Noblemen? have all sorts of
     people done reverence unto thee, and stood bare so soon as ever
     they have seen thee? have thieves, traitors, and murderers been
     afraid to come in thy presence, because they knew thee just, and
     that thou wouldest discover them? And art thou now a harbourer of
     all kinds of vices? nay, dost thou play the capital Vice thyself?
     Hast thou had so many learned Lectures read before thee, and is
     the light of thy understanding now clean put out, and have so
     many profound scholars profited by thee? hast thou done such good
     to Universities, been such a guide to the lame, and seen the
     doing of so many good works, yet dost thou now look dimly, and
     with a dull eye, upon all goodness? What comfort have sick men
     taken (in weary and irksome nights) but only in thee? thou hast
     been their physician and apothecary, and when the relish of
     nothing could please them, the very shadow of thee hath been to
     them a restorative consolation. The nurse hath stilled her
     wayward infant, shewing it but to thee: What gladness hast thou
     put into mariners' bosoms when thou hast met them on the sea!
     What joy into the faint and benighted traveller when he has met
     thee on the land! How many poor handicraftsmen by thee have
     earned the best part of their living! And art thou now become a
     companion for drunkards, for leachers, and for prodigals? Art
     thou turned reprobate? thou wilt burn for it in hell. And so
     odious is this thy apostasy, and hiding thyself from the light of
     the truth, that at thy death and going out of the world, even
     they that love thee best will tread thee under their feet: yea, I
     that have thus played the herald, and proclaimed thy good parts,
     will now play the crier and call thee into open court, to arraign
     thee for thy misdemeanours."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "For do but consider what an excellent thing sleep is: it is so
     inestimable a jewel that, if a tyrant would give his crown for an
     hour's slumber, it cannot be bought: of so beautiful a shape is
     it, that though a man lie with an Empress, his heart cannot be at
     quiet till he leaves her embracements to be at rest with the
     other: yea, so greatly indebted are we to this kinsman of death,
     that we owe the better tributary, half of our life to him: and
     there is good cause why we should do so: for sleep is that golden
     chain that ties health and our bodies together. Who complains of
     want? of wounds? of cares? of great men's oppressions? of
     captivity? whilst he sleepeth? Beggars in their beds take as much
     pleasure as kings: can we therefore surfeit on this delicate
     Ambrosia? can we drink too much of that whereof to taste too
     little tumbles us into a churchyard, and to use it but
     indifferently throws us into Bedlam? No, no, look upon Endymion,
     the moon's minion, who slept three score and fifteen years, and
     was not a hair the worse for it. Can lying abed till noon (being
     not the three score and fifteenth thousand part of his nap) be
     hurtful?

     "Besides, by the opinion of all philosophers and physicians, it
     is not good to trust the air with our bodies till the sun with
     his flame-coloured wings hath fanned away the misty smoke of the
     morning, and refined that thick tobacco-breath which the
     rheumatic night throws abroad of purpose to put out the eye of
     the element: which work questionless cannot be perfectly finished
     till the sun's car-horses stand prancing on the very top of
     highest noon: so that then (and not till then) is the most
     healthful hour to be stirring. Do you require examples to
     persuade you? At what time do Lords and Ladies use to rise but
     then? Your simpering merchants' wives are the fairest lyers in
     the world: and is not eleven o'clock their common hour? they find
     (no doubt) unspeakable sweetness in such lying, else they would
     not day by day put it so in practice. In a word, mid-day slumbers
     are golden; they make the body fat, the skin fair, the flesh
     plump, delicate and tender; they set a russet colour on the
     cheeks of young women, and make lusty courage to rise up in men;
     they make us thrifty, both in sparing victuals (for breakfasts
     thereby are saved from the hell-mouth of the belly) and in
     preserving apparel; for while we warm us in our beds our clothes
     are not worn.

     "The casements of thine eyes being then at this commendable time
     of the day newly set open, choose rather to have thy wind-pipe
     cut in pieces than to salute any man. Bid not good-morrow so much
     as to thy father, though he be an emperor. An idle ceremony it is
     and can do him little good; to thyself it may bring much harm:
     for if he be a wise man that knows how to hold his peace, of
     necessity must he be counted a fool that cannot keep his tongue."

The voluminous work in pamphlet kind of Nicholas Breton, still more the verse efforts closely
akin to it of Samuel Rowlands, John Davies of Hereford and some others, must be passed over
with very brief notice. Dr. Grosart's elaborate edition of the first-named has given a vast
mass of matter very interesting to the student of literature, but which cannot be honestly
recommended to the general reader. Breton, whose long life and perpetual literary activity
fill up great part of our whole period, was an Essex gentleman of a good family (a fact which
he never forgot), and apparently for some time a dependent of the well-known Countess of Pembroke,
Sidney's sister. A much older man than most of the great wits of Elizabeth's reign, he also
survived most of them, and his publications, if not his composition, cover a full half century,
though he was nel mezzo del cammin at the date of the earliest. He was probably born some years
before the middle of the sixteenth century, and certainly did not die before the first year
of Charles I. If we could take as his the charming lullaby of The Arbour of Amorous Devices
he would stand (if only as a kind of "single-speech") high as a poet. But I fear that Dr. Grosart's
attribution of it to him is based on little external and refuted by all internal evidence.
His best certain thing is the pretty "Phillida and Corydon" idyll, which may be found in England's
Helicon or in Mr. Ward's Poets. But I own that I can never read this latter without thinking
of two lines of Fulke Greville's in the same metre and on no very different theme--

    "O'er enamelled meads they went,
    Quiet she, he passion-rent,"

which are simply worth all the works of Breton, prose and verse, unless we count the Lullaby,
put together. In the mots rayonnants, the mots de lumière, he is sadly deficient. But his work
(which is nearly as plentiful in verse as in prose) is, as has been said, very interesting
to the literary student, because it shows better perhaps than anything else the style of literature
which a man, disdaining to condescend to burlesque or bawdry, not gifted with any extraordinary
talent, either at prose or verse, but possessed of a certain literary faculty, could then produce
with a fair chance of being published and bought. It cannot be said that the result shows great
daintiness in Breton's public. The verse, with an improvement in sweetness and fluency, is
very much of the doggerel style which was prevalent before Spenser; and the prose, though showing
considerable faculty, if not of invention, yet of adroit imitation of previously invented styles,
is devoid of distinction and point. There are, however, exercises after Breton's own fashion
in almost every popular style of the time--euphuist romances, moral treatises, packets of letters,
collections of jests and short tales, purely religious tractates, characters (after the style
later illustrated by Overbury and Earle), dialogues, maxims, pictures of manners, collections
of notes about foreign countries,--in fact, the whole farrago of the modern periodical. The
pervading characteristics are Breton's invariable modesty, his pious and, if I may be permitted
to use the word, gentlemanly spirit, and a fashion of writing which, if not very pointed, picturesque,
or epigrammatic, is clear, easy, and on the whole rather superior, in observance of the laws
of grammar and arrangement, to the work of men of much greater note in his day.

The verse pamphlets of Rowlands (whom I have not studied as thoroughly as most others), Davies,
and many less voluminous men, are placed here with all due apology for the liberty. They are
seldom or never of much formal merit, but they are interesting, first, because they testify
to the hold which the mediæval conception of verse, as a general literary medium as suitable
as prose and more attractive, had upon men even at this late time; and secondly, because, like
the purely prose pamphlets, they are full of information as to the manners of the time. For
Rowlands I may refer to Mr. Gosse's essay. John Davies of Hereford, the writing-master, though
he has been carefully edited for students, and is by no means unworthy of study, has had less
benefit of exposition to the general reader. He was not a genius, but he is a good example
of the rather dull man who, despite the disfavour of circumstance, contrives by much assiduity
and ingenious following of models to attain a certain position in literature. There are John
Davieses of Hereford in every age, but since the invention and filing of newspapers their individuality
has been not a little merged. The anonymous journalist of our days is simply to the historian
such and such a paper, volume so-and-so, page so much, column this or that. The good John Davies,
living in another age, still stands as nominis umbra, but with a not inconsiderable body of
work to throw the shadow.

One of the most remarkable, and certainly one of not the least interesting developments of
the Elizabethan pamphlet remains to be noticed. This is the celebrated series of "Martin Marprelate"
tracts, with the replies which they called forth. Indeed the popularity of this series may
be said to have given a great impulse to the whole pamphleteering system. It is somewhat unfortunate
that this interesting subject has never been taken up in full by a dispassionate historian
of literature, sufficiently versed in politics and in theology. In mid-nineteenth century most,
but by no means all of the more notable tracts were reprinted by John Petheram, a London bookseller,
whose productions have since been issued under the well-known imprint of John Russell Smith,
the publisher of the Library of Old Authors. This gave occasion to a review in The Christian
Remembrancer, afterwards enlarged and printed as a book by Mr. Maskell, a High Churchman who
subsequently seceded to the Church of Rome. This latter accident has rather unfavourably and
unfairly affected later judgments of his work, which, however, is certainly not free from party
bias. It has scarcely been less unlucky that the chief recent dealers with the matter, Professor
Arber (who projected a valuable reprint of the whole series in his English Scholars' Library,
and who prefaced it with a quite invaluable introductory sketch), and Dr. Grosart, who also
included divers Anti-Martinist tracts in his privately printed Works of Nashe, are very strongly
prejudiced on the Puritan side.[40] Between these authorities the dispassionate inquirer who
attacks the texts for himself is likely to feel somewhat in the position of a man who exposes
himself to a cross fire. The Martin Marprelate controversy, looked at without prejudice but
with sufficient information, shows itself as a very early example of the reckless violence
of private crotcheteers on the one hand, and of the rather considerable unwisdom of the official
defenders of order on the other. "Martin's" method was to a certain extent an anticipation
of the famous move by which Pascal, fifty years later, "took theology out of the schools into
drawing-rooms," except that Martin and his adversaries transferred the venue rather to the
tap-room than to the drawing-room. The controversy between the framers of the Church of England
in its present state, and the hot gospellers who, with Thomas Cartwright at their head, denied
the proposition (not deniable or denied now by any sane and scholarly disputant) that church
discipline and government are points left to a great extent undefined in the Scriptures, had
gone on for years before Martin appeared. Cartwright and Whitgift had fought, with a certain
advantage of warmth and eloquence on Cartwright's side, and with an immense preponderance of
logical cogency on Whitgift's. Many minor persons had joined in the struggle, and at last a
divine, more worthy than wise, John Bridges, Dean of Salisbury, had produced on the orthodox
side one of those enormous treatises (it had some fifteen hundred quarto pages) which are usually
left unread by the side they favour, and which exasperate the side they oppose. The ordinary
law of the time, moreover, which placed large powers in the hands of the bishops, and especially
entrusted them with a rigid and complete censorship of the press, had begun to be put in force
severely against the more outspoken partisans. Any one who will take the trouble to read the
examination of Henry Barrow, which Mr. Arber has reprinted,[41] or even the "moderate" tracts
of Nicholas Udall, which in a manner ushered in the Marprelate controversy, will probably be
more surprised at the long-suffering of the judges than at the sufferings of their prisoners.
Barrow, in a long and patient examination before the council, of which the Bishop of London
and the Archbishop of Canterbury were members, called them to their faces the one a "wolf,"
a "bloody persecutor," and an "apostate," the other "a monster" and "the second beast that
is spoken of in the Revelations." The "moderate" Udall, after publishing a dialogue (in which
an Anglican bishop called Diotrephes is represented, among other things, as planning measures
against the Puritans in consort with a papist and an usurer), further composed a Demonstration
of Discipline in which, writing, according to Mr. Arber, "without any satire or invective,"
he calls the bishops merely qua bishops, "the wretched fathers of a filthy mother," with abundant
epithets to match, and rains down on every practice of the existing church government such
terms as "blasphemous," "damnable," "hellish," and the like. To the modern reader who looks
at these things with the eyes of the present day, it may of course seem that it would have
been wiser to let the dogs bark. But that was not the principle of the time: and as Mr. Arber
most frankly admits, it was certainly not the principle of the dogs themselves. The Puritans
claimed for themselves a not less absolute right to call in the secular arm if they could,
and a much more absolute certainty and righteousness for their tenets than the very hottest
of their adversaries.

[40] This prejudice is naturally still stronger in some American writers, notably Dr. Dexter.

[41] Arber, Introductory Sketch. p. 40 sqq. All the quotations and references which follow
will be found in Arber's and Petheram's reprints or in Grosart's Nash, vol. 1. If the works
cited are not given as wholes in them, the fact will be noted. (See also Mr. Bond's Lyly.)

Udall was directly, as well as indirectly, the begetter of the Martin Marprelate controversy:
though after he got into trouble in connection with it, he made a sufficiently distinct expression
of disapproval of the Martinist methods, and it seems to have been due more to accident and
his own obstinacy than anything else that he died in prison instead of being obliged with the
honourable banishment of a Guinea chaplaincy. His printer, Waldegrave, had had his press seized
and his license withdrawn for Diotrephes, and resentment at this threw what, in the existing
arrangements of censorship and the Stationers' monopoly, was a very difficult thing to obtain--command
of a practical printer--into the hands of the malcontents. Chief among these malcontents was
a certain Reverend John Penry, a Welshman by birth, a member, as was then not uncommon, of
both universities, and the author, among other more dubious publications, of a plea, intemperately
stated in parts, but very sober and sensible at bottom, for a change in the system of allotting
and administering the benefices of the church in Wales. Which plea, be it observed in passing,
had it been attended to, it would have been better for both the church and state of England
at this day. The pamphlet[42] contained, however, a distinct insinuation against the Queen,
of designedly keeping Wales in ignorance and subjection--an insinuation which, in those days,
was equivalent to high treason. The book was seized, and the author imprisoned (1587). Now
when, about a year after, and in the very height of the danger from the Armada, Waldegrave's
livelihood was threatened by the proceedings above referred to, it would appear that he obtained
from the Continent, or had previously secreted from his confiscated stock, printing tools,
and that he and Penry, at the house of Mistress Crane, at East Molesey, in Surrey, printed
a certain tract, called, for shortness, "The Epistle."[43] This tract, of the authorship and
character of which more presently, created a great sensation. It was immediately followed,
the press being shifted for safety to the houses of divers Puritan country gentlemen, by the
promised Epitome. So great was the stir, that a formal answer of great length was put forth
by "T. C." (well known to be Thomas Cooper, Bishop of Winchester), entitled, An Admonition
to the People of England. The Martinists, from their invisible and shifting citadel, replied
with perhaps the cleverest tract of the whole controversy, named, with deliberate quaintness,
Hay any Work for Cooper?[44] ("Have You any Work for the Cooper?" said to be an actual trade
London cry). Thenceforward the mêlée of pamphlets, answers, "replies, duplies, quadruplies,"
became in small space indescribable. Petheram's prospectus of reprints (only partially carried
out) enumerates twenty-six, almost all printed in the three years 1588-1590; Mr. Arber, including
preliminary works, counts some thirty. The perambulating press was once seized (at Newton Lane,
near Manchester), but Martin was not silenced. It is certain (though there are no remnants
extant of the matter concerned) that Martin was brought on the stage in some form or other,
and though the duration of the controversy was as short as its character was hot, it was rather
suppressed than extinguished by the death of Udall in prison, and the execution of Penry and
Barrow in 1593.

[42] Large extracts from it are given by Arber.

[43] As the titles of these productions are highly characteristic of the style of the controversy,
and, indeed, are sometimes considerably more poignant than the text, it may be well to give
some of them in full as follows:--

The Epistle.--Oh read over D. John Bridges, for it is a worthy work: Or an Epitome of the first
book of that right worshipful volume, written against the Puritans, in the defence of the noble
Clergy, by as worshipful a Priest, John Bridges, Presbyter, Priest or Elder, Doctor of Divillity
[sic], and Dean of Sarum, Wherein the arguments of the Puritans are wisely presented, that
when they come to answer M. Doctor, they must needs say something that hath been spoken. Compiled
for the behoof and overthrow of the Parsons Fyckers and Currats [sic] that have learnt their
catechisms, and are past grace: by the reverend and worthy Martin Marprelate, gentleman, and
dedicated to the Confocation [sic] house. The Epitome is not yet published, but it shall be
when the Bishops are at convenient leisure to view the same. In the mean time let them be content
with this learned Epistle. Printed, oversea, in Europe, within two furlongs of a Bouncing Priest,
at the cost and charges of M. Marprelate, gentleman.

[44] Hay any work for Cooper, or a brief pistle directed by way of an hublication [sic] to
the reverend bishops, counselling them if they will needs be barrelled up for fear of smelling
in the nostrils of her Majesty and the State, that they would use the advice of Reverend Martin
for the providing of their Cooper; because the Reverend T. C. (by which mystical letters is
understood either the bouncing parson of East Meon or Tom Cokes his chaplain), hath shewed
himself in his late admonition to the people of England to be an unskilful and beceitful [sic]
tub-trimmer. Wherein worthy Martin quits him like a man, I warrant you in the modest defence
of his self and his learned pistles, and makes the Cooper's hoops to fly off, and the bishops'
tubs to leak out of all cry. Penned and compiled by Martin the metropolitan. Printed in Europe,
not far from some of the bouncing priests.

The actual authorship of the Martinist Tracts is still purely a matter of hypothesis. Penry
has been the general favourite, and perhaps the argument from the difference of style in his
known works is not quite convincing. The American writer Dr. Dexter, a fervent admirer, as
stated above, of the Puritans, is for Barrow. Mr. Arber thinks that a gentleman of good birth
named Job Throckmorton, who was certainly concerned in the affair, was probably the author
of the more characteristic passages. Fantastic suggestions of Jesuit attempts to distract the
Anglican Church have also been made,--attempts sufficiently refuted by the improbability of
the persons known to be concerned lending themselves to such an intrigue, for, hotheads as
Penry and the rest were, they were transparently honest. On the side of the defence, authorship
is a little better ascertained. Of Cooper's work there is no doubt, and some purely secular
men of letters were oddly mixed up in the affair. It is all but certain that John Lyly wrote
the so-called Pap with a Hatchet,[45] which in deliberate oddity of phrase, scurrility of language,
and desultoriness of method outvies the wildest Martinist outbursts. The later tract, An Almond
for a Parrot,[46] which deserves a very similar description, may not improbably be the same
author's; and Dr. Grosart has reasonably attributed four anti-Martinist tracts (A Countercuff
to Martin Junior [Martin Junior was one of the Marprelate treatises], Pasquil's Return, Martin's
Month's Mind, and Pasquil's Apology), to Nash. But the discussion of such questions comes but
ill within the limits of such a book as the present. Imprinted by John-a-noke and John-a-stile
for the baylive [sic] of Withernam, cum privilegio perennitatis; and are to be sold at the
sign of the crab-tree-cudgel in Thwackcoat Lane. A sentence. Martin hangs fit for my mowing.

[46] An Almond for a Parrot, or Cuthbert Curryknaves alms. Fit for the knave Martin, and the
rest of those impudent beggars that cannot be content to stay their stomachs with a benefice,
but they will needs break their fasts with our bishops. Rimarum sum plenus. Therefore beware,
gentle reader, you catch not the hicket with laughing. Imprinted at a place, not far from a
place, by the assigns of Signior Somebody, and are to be sold at his shop in Troubleknave Street
at the sign of the Standish.

The discussion of the characteristics of the actual tracts, as they present themselves and
whosoever wrote them, is, on the other hand, entirely within our competence. On the whole the
literary merit of the treatises has, I think, been overrated. The admirers of Martin have even
gone so far as to traverse Penry's perfectly true statement that in using light, not to say
ribald, treatment of a serious subject, he was only following [Marnix de Sainte Aldegonde and]
other Protestant writers, and have attributed to him an almost entire originality of method,
owing at most something to the popular "gags" of the actor Richard Tarleton, then recently
dead. This is quite uncritical. An exceedingly free treatment of sacred and serious affairs
had been characteristic of the Reformers from Luther downward, and the new Martin only introduced
the variety of style which any writer of considerable talents is sure to show. His method,
at any rate for a time, is no doubt sufficiently amusing, though it is hardly effective. Serious
arguments are mixed up with the wildest buffoonery, and unconscious absurdities (such as a
solemn charge against the unlucky Bishop Aylmer because he used the phrase "by my faith," and
enjoyed a game at bowls) with the most venomous assertion or insinuation of really odious offences.
The official answer to the Epistle and the Epitome has been praised by no less a person than
Bacon[47] for its gravity of tone. Unluckily Dr. Cooper was entirely destitute of the faculty
of relieving argument with humour. He attacks the theology of the Martinists with learning
and logic that leave nothing to desire; but unluckily he proceeds in precisely the same style
to deal laboriously with the quips assigned by Martin to Mistress Margaret Lawson (a noted
Puritan shrew of the day), and with mere idle things like the assertion that Whitgift "carried
Dr. Perne's cloakbag." The result is that, as has been said, the rejoinder Hay any Work for
Cooper shows Martin, at least at the beginning, at his very best. The artificial simplicity
of his distortions of Cooper's really simple statements is not unworthy of Swift, or of the
best of the more recent practitioners of the grave and polite kind of political irony. But
this is at the beginning, and soon afterwards Martin relapses for the most part into the alternation
between serious argument which will not hold water and grotesque buffoonery which has little
to do with the matter. A passage from the Epistle lampooning Aylmer, Bishop of London, and
a sample each of Pap with a Hatchet and the Almond, will show the general style. But the most
characteristic pieces of all are generally too coarse and too irreverent to be quotable:--

[47] In his Advertisement Touching the Controversies of the Church of England (Works. Folio,
1753, ii. p. 375).

     [Sidenote: I'll make you weary of it dumb John, except you leave
     persecuting.]

     "Well now to mine eloquence, for I can do it I tell you. Who made
     the porter of his gate a dumb minister? Dumb John of London. Who
     abuseth her Majesty's subjects, in urging them to subscribe
     contrary to law? John of London. Who abuseth the high commission,
     as much as any? John London (and D. Stanhope too). Who bound an
     Essex minister, in 200l. to wear the surplice on Easter Day
     last? John London. Who hath cut down the elms at Fulham? John
     London. Who is a carnal defender of the breach of the Sabbath in
     all the places of his abode? John London. Who forbiddeth men to
     humble themselves in fasting and prayer before the Lord, and then
     can say unto the preachers, now you were best to tell the people
     that we forbid fasts? John London. Who goeth to bowls upon the
     Sabbath? Dumb Dunstical John of good London hath done all this. I
     will for this time leave this figure, and tell your venerable
     masterdoms a tale worth the hearing: I had it at the second hand:
     if he that told it me added anything, I do not commend him, but I
     forgive him: The matter is this. A man dying in Fulham, made one
     of the Bishop of London's men his executor. The man had
     bequeathed certain legacies unto a poor shepherd in the town. The
     shepherd could get nothing of the Bishop's man, and therefore
     made his moan unto a gentleman of Fulham, that belongeth to the
     court of requests. The gentleman's name is M. Madox. The poor
     man's case came to be tried in the Court of Requests. The B. man
     desired his master's help: Dumb John wrote to the masters of
     requests to this effect, and I think these were his words:

     "'My masters of the requests, the bearer hereof being my man,
     hath a cause before you: inasmuch as I understand how the matter
     standeth, I pray you let my man be discharged the court, and I
     will see an agreement made. Fare you well.' The letter came to M.
     D. Dale, he answered it in this sort:

     "'My Lord of London, this man delivered your letter, I pray you
     give him his dinner on Christmas Day for his labour, and fare you
     well.'

     "Dumb John not speeding this way, sent for the said M. Madox: he
     came, some rough words passed on both sides, Presbyter John said,
     Master Madox was very saucy, especially seeing he knew before
     whom he spake: namely, the Lord of Fulham. Whereunto the
     gentleman answered that he had been a poor freeholder in Fulham,
     before Don John came to be L. there, hoping also to be so, when
     he and all his brood (my Lady his daughter and all) should be
     gone. At the hearing of this speech, the wasp got my brother by
     the nose, which made him in his rage to affirm, that he would be
     L. of Fulham as long as he lived in despite of all England. Nay,
     soft there, quoth M. Madox, except her Majesty. I pray you, that
     is my meaning, call dumb John, and I tell thee Madox that thou
     art but a Jack to use me so: Master Madox replying, said that
     indeed his name was John, and if every John were a Jack, he was
     content to be a Jack (there he hit my L. over the thumbs). The B.
     growing in choler, said that Master Madox his name did shew what
     he was, for saith he, thy name is mad ox, which declareth thee to
     be an unruly and mad beast. M. Madox answered again, that the B.
     name, if it were descanted upon, did most significantly shew his
     qualities. For said he, you are called Elmar, but you may be
     better called marelm, for you have marred all the elms in Fulham:
     having cut them all down. This far is my worthy story, as worthy
     to be printed, as any part of Dean John's book, I am sure."

       *       *       *       *       *

              "To the Father and the two Sons,
                  HUFF, RUFF, and SNUFF,[48]
     the three tame ruffians of the Church, which take pepper
              in the nose, because they cannot
                        mar Prelates:
                          greeting.

     "Room for a royster; so that's well said. Ach, a little farther
     for a good fellow. Now have at you all my gaffers of the railing
     religion, 'tis I that must take you a peg lower. I am sure you
     look for more work, you shall have wood enough to cleave, make
     your tongue the wedge, and your head the beetle. I'll make such a
     splinter run into your wits, as shall make them rankle till you
     become fools. Nay, if you shoot books like fools' bolts, I'll be
     so bold as to make your judgments quiver with my thunderbolts. If
     you mean to gather clouds in the Commonwealth, to threaten
     tempests, for your flakes of snow, we'll pay you with stones of
     hail; if with an easterly wind you bring caterpillers into the
     Church, with a northern wind we'll drive barrens into your wits.

     "We care not for a Scottish mist, though it wet us to the skin,
     you shall be sure your cockscombs shall not be missed, but
     pierced to the skulls. I profess railing, and think it as good a
     cudgel for a martin, as a stone for a dog, or a whip for an ape,
     or poison for a rat.

     "Yet find fault with no broad terms, for I have measured yours
     with mine, and I find yours broader just by the list. Say not my
     speeches are light, for I have weighed yours and mine, and I find
     yours lighter by twenty grains than the allowance. For number you
     exceed, for you have thirty ribald words for my one, and yet you
     bear a good spirit. I was loth so to write as I have done, but
     that I learned, that he that drinks with cutters, must not be
     without his ale daggers; nor he that buckles with Martin, without
     his lavish terms.

     "Who would curry an ass with an ivory comb? Give the beast
     thistles for provender. I do but yet angle with a silken fly, to
     see whether martins will nibble; and if I see that, why then I
     have worms for the nonce, and will give them line enough like a
     trout, till they swallow both hook and line, and then, Martin,
     beware your gills, for I'll make you dance at the pole's end.

     "I know Martin will with a trice bestride my shoulders. Well, if
     he ride me, let the fool sit fast, for my wit is very hickish:
     which if he spur with his copper reply, when it bleeds, it will
     all to besmear their consciences.

     "If a martin can play at chess, as well as his nephew the ape, he
     shall know what it is for a scaddle pawn to cross a Bishop in his
     own walk. Such diedappers must be taken up, else they'll not
     stick to check the king. Rip up my life, discipher my name, fill
     thy answer as full of lies as of lines, swell like a toad, hiss
     like an adder, bite like a dog, and chatter like a monkey, my pen
     is prepared and my mind; and if ye chance to find any worse words
     than you brought, let them be put in your dad's dictionary. And
     so farewell, and be hanged, and I pray God ye fare no worse.

            "Yours at an hour's warning,

                      "DOUBLE V."

[48] Well-known stage characters in Preston's Cambyses.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "By this time I think, good-man Puritan, that thou art persuaded,
     that I know as well as thy own conscience thee, namely Martin
     Makebate of England, to be a most scurvy and beggarly benefactor
     to obedience, and per consequens, to fear neither men, nor that
     God Who can cast both body and soul into unquenchable fire. In
     which respect I neither account you of the Church, nor esteem of
     your blood, otherwise than the blood of Infidels. Talk as long as
     you will of the joys of heaven, or pains of hell, and turn from
     yourselves the terror of that judgment how you will, which shall
     bereave blushing iniquity of the fig-leaves of hypocrisy, yet
     will the eye of immortality discern of your painted pollutions,
     as the ever-living food of perdition. The humours of my eyes are
     the habitations of fountains, and the circumference of my heart
     the enclosure of fearful contrition, when I think how many souls
     at that moment shall carry the name of Martin on their foreheads
     to the vale of confusion, in whose innocent blood thou swimming
     to hell, shalt have the torments of ten thousand thousand sinners
     at once, inflicted upon thee. There will envy, malice, and
     dissimulation be ever calling for vengeance against thee, and
     incite whole legions of devils to thy deathless lamentation.
     Mercy will say unto thee, I know thee not, and Repentance, what
     have I to do with thee? All hopes shall shake the head at thee,
     and say: there goes the poison of purity, the perfection of
     impiety, the serpentine seducer of simplicity. Zeal herself will
     cry out upon thee, and curse the time that ever she was mashed by
     thy malice, who like a blind leader of the blind, sufferedst her
     to stumble at every step in Religion, and madest her seek in the
     dimness of her sight, to murder her mother the Church, from whose
     paps thou like an envious dog but yesterday pluckedst her.
     However, proud scorner, thy whorish impudency may happen
     hereafter to insist in the derision of these fearful
     denunciations, and sport thy jester's pen at the speech of my
     soul, yet take heed least despair be predominant in the day of
     thy death, and thou instead of calling for mercy to thy Jesus,
     repeat more oftener to thyself, Sic morior damnatus ut Judas!
     And thus much, Martin, in the way of compassion, have I spoke for
     thy edification, moved thereto by a brotherly commiseration,
     which if thou be not too desperate in thy devilish attempts, may
     reform thy heart to remorse, and thy pamphlets to some more
     profitable theme of repentance."

If Martin Marprelate is compared with the Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum earlier, or the Satire
Menippée very little later, the want of polish and directness about contemporary English satire
will be strikingly apparent. At the same time he does not compare badly with his own antagonists.
The divines like Cooper are, as has been said, too serious. The men of letters like Lyly and
Nash are not nearly serious enough, though some exception may be made for Nash, especially
if Pasquil's Apology be his. They out-Martin Martin himself in mere abusiveness, in deliberate
quaintness of phrase, in fantastic vapourings and promises of the dreadful things that are
going to be done to the enemy. They deal some shrewd hits at the glaring faults of their subject,
his outrageous abuse of authorities, his profanity, his ribaldry, his irrelevance; but in point
of the three last qualities there is not much to choose between him and them. One line of counter
attack they did indeed hit upon, which was followed up for generations with no small success
against the Nonconformists, and that is the charge of hypocritical abuse of the influence which
the Nonconformist teachers early acquired over women. The germs of the unmatched passages to
this effect in The Tale of a Tub may be found in the rough horseplay of Pap with a Hatchet
and An Almond for a Parrot. But the spirit of the whole controversy is in fact a spirit of
horseplay. Abuse takes the place of sarcasm, Rabelaisian luxuriance of words the place of the
plain hard hitting, with no flourishes or capers, but with every blow given straight from the
shoulder, which Dryden and Halifax, Swift and Bentley, were to introduce into English controversy
a hundred years later. The peculiar exuberance of Elizabethan literature, evident in all its
departments, is nowhere more evident than in this department of the prose pamphlet, and in
no section of that department is it more evident than in the Tracts of the Martin Marprelate
Controversy. Never perhaps were more wild and whirling words used about any exceedingly serious
and highly technical matter of discussion; and probably most readers who have ventured into
the midst of the tussle will sympathise with the adjuration of Plain Percivall the Peacemaker
of England (supposed to be Richard Harvey, brother of Gabriel, who was himself not entirely
free from suspicion of concernment in the matter), "My masters, that strive for this supernatural
art of wrangling, let all be husht and quiet a-God's name." It is needless to say that the
disputants did not comply with Plain Percivall's request. Indeed they bestowed some of their
choicest abuse on him in return for his advice. Not even by the casting of the most peacemaking
of all dust, that of years and the grave, can it be said that these jars at last compacta quiescunt.
For it is difficult to find any account of the transaction which does not break out sooner
or later into strong language.

CHAPTER VII

THE THIRD DRAMATIC PERIOD

I have chosen, to fill the third division of our dramatic chapters, seven chief writers of
distinguished individuality, reserving a certain fringe of anonymous plays and of less famous
personalities for the fourth and last. The seven exceptional persons are Beaumont and Fletcher,
Webster, Middleton, Heywood, Tourneur, and Day. It would be perhaps lost labour to attempt
to make out a severe definition, shutting these off on the one hand from their predecessors,
on the other from those that followed them. We must be satisfied in such cases with an approach
to exactness, and it is certain that while most of the men just named had made some appearance
in the latest years of Elizabeth, and while one or two of them lasted into the earliest years
of Charles, they all represent, in their period of flourishing and in the character of their
work, the Jacobean age. In some of them, as in Middleton and Day, the Elizabethan type prevails;
in others, as in Fletcher, a distinctly new flavour--a flavour not perceptible in Shakespere,
much less in Marlowe--appears. But in none of them is that other flavour of pronounced decadence,
which appears in the work of men so great as Massinger and Ford, at all perceptible. We are
still in the creative period, and in some of the work to be now noticed we are in a comparatively
unformed stage of it. It has been said, and not unjustly said, that the work of Beaumont and
Fletcher belongs, when looked at on one side, not to the days of Elizabeth at all, but to the
later seventeenth century; and this is true to the extent that the post-Restoration dramatists
copied Fletcher and followed Fletcher very much more than Shakespere. But not only dates but
other characteristics refer the work of Beaumont and Fletcher to a distinctly earlier period
than the work of their, in some sense, successors Massinger and Ford.

It will have been observed that I cleave to the old-fashioned nomenclature, and speak of "Beaumont
and Fletcher." Until very recently, when two new editions have made their appearance, there
was for a time a certain tendency to bring Fletcher into greater prominence than his partner,
but at the same time and on the whole to depreciate both. I am in all things but ill-disposed
to admit innovation without the clearest and most cogent proofs; and although the comparatively
short life of Beaumont makes it impossible that he should have taken part in some of the fifty-two
plays traditionally assigned to the partnership (we may perhaps add Mr. Bullen's remarkable
discovery of Sir John Barneveldt, in which Massinger probably took Beaumont's place), I see
no reason to dispute the well-established theory that Beaumont contributed at least criticism,
and probably original work, to a large number of these plays; and that his influence probably
survived himself in conditioning his partner's work. And I am also disposed to think that the
plays attributed to the pair have scarcely had fair measure in comparison with the work of
their contemporaries, which was so long neglected. Beaumont and Fletcher kept the stage--kept
it constantly and triumphantly--till almost, if not quite, within living memory; while since
the seventeenth century, and since its earlier part, I believe that very few plays of Dekker's
or Middleton's, of Webster's or of Ford's, have been presented to an English audience. This
of itself constituted at the great revival of interest in Elizabethan literature something
of a prejudice in favour of les oubliés et les dédaignés, and this prejudice has naturally
grown stronger since all alike have been banished from the stage. The Copper Captain and the
Humorous Lieutenant, Bessus and Monsieur Thomas, are no longer on the boards to plead for their
authors. The comparative depreciation of Lamb and others is still on the shelves to support
their rivals.

Although we still know but little about either Beaumont or Fletcher personally, they differ
from most of their great contemporaries by having come of "kenned folk," and by having to all
appearance, industrious as they were, had no inducement to write for money. Francis Beaumont
was born at Gracedieu, in Leicestershire in 1584. He was the son of a chief-justice; his family
had for generations been eminent, chiefly in the law; his brother, Sir John Beaumont, was not
only a poet of some merit, but a man of position, and Francis himself, two years before his
death in 1616, married a Kentish heiress. He was educated at Broadgates Hall (now Pembroke
College), Oxford, and seems to have made acquaintance with John Fletcher soon after quitting
the University. Fletcher was five years older than his friend, and of a clerical family, his
father being Bishop of London, and his uncle, Giles Fletcher (the author of Licia), a dignitary
of the Church. The younger Giles Fletcher and his brother Phineas were thus cousins of the
dramatist. Fletcher was a Cambridge man, having been educated at Benet College (at present
and indeed originally known as Corpus Christi). Little else is known of him except that he
died of the plague in 1625, nine years after Beaumont's death, as he had been born five years
before him. These two men, however, one of whom was but thirty and the other not fifty when
he died, have left by far the largest collection of printed plays attributed to any English
author. A good deal of dispute has been indulged in as to their probable shares,--the most
likely opinion being that Fletcher was the creator and Beaumont (whose abilities in criticism
were recognised by such a judge as Ben Jonson) the critical and revising spirit. About a third
of the whole number have been supposed to represent Beaumont's influence more or less directly.
These include the two finest, The Maid's Tragedy and Philaster; while as to the third play,
which may be put on the same level, The Two Noble Kinsmen, early assertion, confirmed by a
constant catena of the best critical authority, maintains that Beaumont's place was taken by
no less a collaborator than Shakespere. Fletcher, as has been said, wrote in conjunction with
Massinger (we know this for certain from Sir Aston Cokain), and with Rowley and others, while
Shirley seems to have finished some of his plays. Some modern criticism has manifested a desire
to apply the always uncertain and usually unprofitable tests of separation to the great mass
of his work. With this we need not busy ourselves. The received collection has quite sufficient
idiosyncrasy of its own as a whole to make it superfluous for any one, except as a matter of
amusement, to try to split it up.

Its characteristics are, as has been said, sufficiently marked, both in defects and in merits.
The comparative depreciation which has come upon Beaumont and Fletcher naturally fixes on the
defects. There is in the work of the pair, and especially in Fletcher's work when he wrought
alone, a certain loose fluency, an ungirt and relaxed air, which contrasts very strongly with
the strenuous ways of the elder playwrights. This exhibits itself not in plotting or playwork
proper, but in style and in versification (the redundant syllable predominating, and every
now and then the verse slipping away altogether into the strange medley between verse and prose,
which we shall find so frequent in the next and last period), and also in the characters. We
quit indeed the monstrous types of cruelty, of lust, of revenge, in which many of the Elizabethans
proper and of Fletcher's own contemporaries delighted. But at the same time we find a decidedly
lowered standard of general morality--a distinct approach towards the fay ce que voudras of
the Restoration. We are also nearer to the region of the commonplace. Nowhere appears that
attempt to grapple with the impossible, that wrestle with the hardest problems, which Marlowe
began, and which he taught to some at least of his followers. And lastly--despite innumerable
touches of tender and not a few of heroic poetry--the actual poetical value of the dramas at
their best is below that of the best work of the preceding time, and of such contemporaries
as Webster and Dekker. Beaumont and Fletcher constantly delight, but they do not very often
transport, and even when they do, it is with a less strange rapture than that which communicates
itself to the reader of Shakespere passim, and to the readers of many of Shakespere's fellows
here and there.

This, I think, is a fair allowance. But, when it is made, a goodly capital whereon to draw
still remains to our poets. In the first place, no sound criticism can possibly overlook the
astonishing volume and variety of their work. No doubt they did not often (if they ever did)
invent their fables. But they have never failed to treat them in such a way as to make them
original, and this of itself shows a wonderful faculty of invention and constitutes an inexhaustible
source of pleasure. This pleasure is all the more pleasurable because the matter is always
presented in a thoroughly workmanlike form. The shapelessness, the incoherence, the necessity
for endless annotation and patching together, which mar so many even of the finest Elizabethan
plays, have no place in Beaumont and Fletcher. Their dramatic construction is almost narrative
in its clear and easy flow, in its absence of puzzles and piecings. Again, their stories are
always interesting, and their characters (especially the lighter ones) always more or less
attractive. It used to be fashionable to praise their "young men," probably because of the
agreeable contrast which they present with the brutality of the Restoration hero; but their
girls are more to my fancy. They were not straightlaced, and have left some sufficiently ugly
and (let it be added) not too natural types of sheer impudence, such as the Megra of Philaster.
Nor could they ever attain to the romantic perfection of Imogen in one kind, of Rosalind in
another, of Juliet in a third. But for portraits of pleasant English girls not too squeamish,
not at all afraid of love-making, quite convinced of the hackneyed assertion of the mythologists
that jests and jokes go in the train of Venus, but true-hearted, affectionate, and of a sound,
if not a very nice morality, commend me to Fletcher's Dorotheas, and Marys, and Celias. Add
to this the excellence of their comedy (there is little better comedy of its kind anywhere
than that of A King and no King, of the Humorous Lieutenant, of Rule a Wife and have a Wife),
their generally high standard of dialogue verse, their charming songs, and it will be seen
that if they have not the daemonic virtue of a few great dramatic poets, they have at any rate
very good, solid, pleasant, and plentiful substitutes for it.

It is no light matter to criticise more than fifty plays in not many times fifty lines; yet
something must be said about some of them at any rate. The play which usually opens the series,
The Maid's Tragedy, is perhaps the finest of all on the purely tragic side, though its plot
is a little improbable, and to modern notions not very agreeable. Hazlitt disliked it much;
and though this is chiefly to be accounted for by the monarchical tone of it, it is certainly
faulty in parts. It shows, in the first place, the authors' greatest dramatic weakness--a weakness
common indeed to all their tribe except Shakespere--the representation of sudden and quite
insufficiently motived moral revolutions; and, secondly, another fault of theirs in the representation
of helpless and rather nerveless virtue punished without fault of its own indeed, but also
without any effort. The Aspatia of The Maid's Tragedy and the Bellario of Philaster, pathetic
as they are, are also slightly irritating. Still the pathos is great, and the quarrel or threatened
quarrel of the friends Amintor and Melantius, the horrible trial put upon Amintor by his sovereign
and the abandoned Evadne, as well as the whole part of Evadne herself when she has once been
(rather improbably) converted, are excellent. A passage of some length from the latter part
of the play may supply as well as another the sufficient requirement of an illustrative extract:--

    Evad. "O my lord!

    Amin. How now?

    Evad. My much abused Lord! (Kneels.)

    Amin. This cannot be.

    Evad. I do not kneel to live, I dare not hope it;
            The wrongs I did are greater: look upon me
            Though I appear with all my faults.

    Amin. Stand up.
            This is a new way to beget more sorrow.
            Heav'n knows, I have too many; do not mock me;
            Though I am tame and bred up with my wrongs
            Which are my foster-brothers, I may leap
            Like a hand-wolf into my natural wildness
            And do an outrage: pray thee, do not mock me.

    Evad. My whole life is so leprous, it infects
            All my repentance: I would buy your pardon
            Though at the highest set, even with my life:
            That slight contrition, that's no sacrifice
            For what I have committed.

    Amin. Sure I dazzle.
            There cannot be a Faith in that foul woman
            That knows no God more mighty than her mischiefs:
            Thou dost still worse, still number on thy faults
            To press my poor heart thus. Can I believe
            There's any seed of virtue in that woman
            Left to shoot up, that dares go on in sin
            Known, and so known as thine is? O Evadne!
            'Would, there were any safety in thy sex,
            That I might put a thousand sorrows off,
            And credit thy repentance! But I must not;
            Thou'st brought me to that dull calamity,
            To that strange misbelief of all the world
            And all things that are in it; that, I fear
            I shall fall like a tree, and find my grave,
            Only remembering that I grieve.

    Evad. My lord,
            Give me your griefs: you are an innocent,
            A soul as white as Heav'n. Let not my sins
            Perish your noble youth: I do not fall here
            To shadows by dissembling with my tears
            (As, all say, women can) or to make less
            What my hot will hath done, which Heav'n and you
            Knows to be tougher than the hand of time
            Can cut from man's remembrance; no, I do not;
            I do appear the same, the same Evadne
            Drest in the shames I liv'd in; the same monster:
            But these are names of honour, to what I am;
            I do present myself the foulest creature
            Most pois'nous, dang'rous, and despis'd of men,
            Lerna e'er bred, or Nilus: I am hell,
            Till you, my dear lord, shoot your light into me
            The beams of your forgiveness: I am soul-sick;
            And wither with the fear of one condemn'd,
            Till I have got your pardon.

    Amin. Rise, Evadne.
            Those heavenly Powers, that put this good into thee,
            Grant a continuance of it: I forgive thee;
            Make thyself worthy of it, and take heed,
            Take heed, Evadne, this be serious;
            Mock not the Pow'rs above, that can and dare
            Give thee a great example of their justice
            To all ensuing eyes, if that thou playest
            With thy repentance, the best sacrifice.

    Evad. I have done nothing good to win belief,
            My life hath been so faithless; all the creatures
            Made for Heav'n's honours, have their ends, and good ones,
            All but the cozening crocodiles, false women;
            They reign here like those plagues, those killing sores,
            Men pray against; and when they die, like tales
            Ill told, and unbeliev'd they pass away
            And go to dust forgotten: But, my lord,
            Those short days I shall number to my rest,
            (As many must not see me) shall, though late
            (Though in my evening, yet perceive a will,)
            Since I can do no good, because a woman,
            Reach constantly at something that is near it;
            I will redeem one minute of my age,
            Or, like another Niobe, I'll weep
            Till I am water.

    Amin. I am now dissolv'd.
            My frozen soul melts: may each sin thou hast
            Find a new mercy! rise, I am at peace:
            Hadst thou been thus, thus excellently good,
            Before that devil king tempted thy frailty,
            Sure, thou hadst made a star. Give me thy hand;
            From this time I will know thee, and as far
            As honour gives me leave, be thy Amintor.
            When we meet next, I will salute thee fairly
            And pray the gods to give thee happy days.
            My charity shall go along with thee
            Though my embraces must be far from thee.
            I should ha' kill'd thee, but this sweet repentance
            Locks up my vengeance, for which thus I kiss thee,
            The last kiss we must take."

The beautiful play of Philaster has already been glanced at; it is sufficient to add that its
detached passages are deservedly the most famous of all. The insufficiency of the reasons of
Philaster's jealousy may be considered by different persons as affecting to a different extent
the merit of the piece. In these two pieces tragedy, or at least tragi-comedy, has the upper
hand; it is in the next pair as usually arranged (for the chronological order of these plays
is hitherto unsolved) that Fletcher's singular vis comica appears. A King and no King has a
very serious plot; and the loves of Arbaces and Panthea are most lofty, insolent, and passionate.
But the comedy of Bessus and his two swordsmen, which is fresh and vivid even after Bobadil
and Parolles (I do not say Falstaff, because I hold it a vulgar error to consider Falstaff
as really a coward at all), is perhaps more generally interesting. As for The Scornful Lady
it is comedy pure and simple, and very excellent comedy too. The callousness of the younger
Loveless--an ugly forerunner of Restoration manners--injures it a little, and the instantaneous
and quite unreasonable conversion of the usurer Morecraft a little more. But the humours of
the Lady herself (a most Molièresque personage), and those of Roger and Abigail, with many
minor touches, more than redeem it. The plays which follow [49] are all comical and mostly
farcical. The situations, rather than the expressions of The Custom of the Country, bring it
under the ban of a rather unfair condemnation of Dryden's, pronounced when he was quite unsuccessfully
trying to free the drama of himself and his contemporaries from Collier's damning charges.
But there are many lively traits in it. The Elder Brother is one of those many variations on
cedant arma togæ which men of letters have always been somewhat prone to overvalue; but the
excellent comedy of The Spanish Curate is not impaired by the fact that Dryden chose to adapt
it after his own fashion in The Spanish Friar. In Wit Without Money, though it is as usual
amusing, the stage preference for a "roaring boy," a senseless crack-brained spendthrift, appears
perhaps a little too strongly. The Beggar's Bush is interesting because of its early indications
of cant language, connecting it with Brome's Jovial Crew, and with Dekker's thieves' Latin
pamphlets. But the faults and the merits of Fletcher have scarcely found better expression
anywhere than in The Humorous Lieutenant. Celia is his masterpiece in the delineation of the
type of girl outlined above, and awkward as her double courtship by Demetrius and his father
Antigonus is, one somehow forgives it, despite the nauseous crew of go-betweens of both sexes
whom Fletcher here as elsewhere seems to take a pleasure in introducing. As for the Lieutenant
he is quite charming; and even the ultra-farcical episode of his falling in love with the king
owing to a philtre is well carried off. Then follows the delightful pastoral of The Faithful
Shepherdess, which ranks with Jonson's Sad Shepherd and with Comus, as the three chiefs of
its style in English. The Loyal Subject falls a little behind, as also does The Mad Lover;
but Rule a Wife and have a Wife again rises to the first class. Inferior to Shakespere in the
power of transcending without travestying human affairs, to Jonson in sharply presented humours,
to Congreve and Sheridan in rattling fire of dialogue, our authors have no superior in half-farcical,
half-pathetic comedy of a certain kind, and they have perhaps nowhere shown their power better
than in the picture of the Copper Captain and his Wife. The flagrant absurdity of The Laws
of Candy (which put the penalty of death on ingratitude, and apparently fix no criterion of
what ingratitude is, except the decision of the person who thinks himself ungratefully treated),
spoils a play which is not worse written than the rest. But in The False One, based on Egyptian
history just after Pompey's death, and Valentinian, which follows with a little poetical license
the crimes and punishment of that Emperor, a return is made to pure tragedy--in both cases
with great success. The magnificent passage which Hazlitt singled out from The False One is
perhaps the author's or authors' highest attempt in tragic declamation, and may be considered
to have stopped not far short of the highest tragic poetry.

[49] It may perhaps be well to mention that the references to "volumes" are to the ten-volume
edition of 1750, by Theobald, Seward, and others.

The chief fault of Valentinian is that the character of Maximus is very indistinctly drawn,
and that of Eudoxia nearly unintelligible. These two pure tragedies are contrasted with two
comedies, The Little French Lawyer and Monsieur Thomas, which deserve high praise. The fabliau-motive
of the first is happily contrasted with the character of Lamira and the friendship of Clerimont
and Dinant; while no play has so many of Fletcher's agreeable young women as Monsieur Thomas.
The Bloody Brother, which its title speaks as sufficiently tragical, comes between two excellent
comedies, The Chances and The Wild Goose Chase, which might serve as well as any others for
samples of the whole work on its comic side. In The Chances the portrait of the hare-brained
Don John is the chief thing; in The Wild Goose Chase, as in Monsieur Thomas, a whole bevy of
lively characters, male and female, dispute the reader's attention and divide his preference.
A Wife for a Month sounds comic, but is not a little alloyed with tragedy; and despite the
pathos of its central situation, is marred by some of Fletcher's ugliest characters--the characters
which Shakespere in Pandarus and the nurse in Romeo and Juliet took care to touch with his
lightest finger. The Lover's Progress, a doubtful tragedy, and The Pilgrim, a good comedy (revived
at the end of the century, as was The Prophetess with certain help from Dryden), do not require
any special notice. Between these two last comes The Captain, a comedy neither of the best
nor yet of the worst. The tragi-comic Queen of Corinth is a little heavy; but in Bonduca we
have one of the very best of the author's tragedies, the scenes with Caratach and his nephew,
the boy Hengo, being full of touches not wholly unworthy of Shakespere. The Knight of the Burning
Pestle (where Fletcher, forsaking his usual fantastic grounds of a France that is scarcely
French, and an Italy that is extremely un-Italian, comes to simple pictures of London middle-class
life, such as those of Jonson or Middleton) is a very happy piece of work indeed, despite the
difficulty of working out its double presentment of burlesque knight-errantry and straightforward
comedy of manners. In Love's Pilgrimage, with a Spanish subject and something of a Spanish
style, there is not enough central interest, and the fortunes by land and sea of The Double
Marriage do not make it one of Fletcher's most interesting plays. But The Maid in the Mill
and The Martial Maid are good farce, which almost deserves the name of comedy; and The Knight
of Malta is a romantic drama of merit. In Women Pleased the humours of avarice and hungry servility
are ingeniously treated, and one of the starveling Penurio's speeches is among the best-known
passages of all the plays, while the anti-Puritan satire of Hope-on-High Bomby is also noteworthy.
The next four plays are less noticeable, and indeed for two volumes, of the edition referred
to, we come to fewer plays that are specially good. The Night Walker; or, The Little Thief,
though not very probable in its incidents, has a great deal of lively business, and is particularly
noteworthy as supplying proof of the singular popularity of bell-ringing with all classes of
the population in the seventeenth century,--a popularity which probably protected many old
bells in the mania for church desecration. Not much can be said for The Woman's Prize, or,
The Tamer Tamed, an avowed sequel, and so to speak, antidote to The Taming of the Shrew, which
chiefly proves that it is wise to let Shakespere alone. The authors have drawn to some extent
on the Lysistrata to aid them, but have fallen as far short of the fun as of the indecency
of that memorable play. With The Island Princess we return to a fair, though not more than
a fair level of romantic tragi-comedy, but The Noble Gentleman is the worst play ever attributed
(even falsely) to authors of genius. The subject is perfectly uninteresting, the characters
are all fools or knaves, and the means adopted to gull the hero through successive promotions
to rank, and successive deprivations of them (the genuineness of neither of which he takes
the least trouble to ascertain), are preposterous. The Coronation is much better, and The Sea
Voyage, with a kind of Amazon story grafted upon a hint of The Tempest, is a capital play of
its kind. Better still, despite a certain looseness both of plot and moral, is The Coxcomb,
where the heroine Viola is a very touching figure. The extravagant absurdity of the traveller
Antonio is made more probable than is sometimes the case with our authors, and the situations
of the whole join neatly, and pass trippingly. Wit at Several Weapons deserves a somewhat similar
description, and so does The Fair Maid of the Inn; while Cupid's Revenge, though it shocked
the editors of 1750 as a pagan kind of play, has a fine tragical zest, and is quite true to
classical belief in its delineation of the ruthlessness of the offended Deity. Undoubtedly,
however, the last volume of this edition supplies the most interesting material of any except
the first. Here is The Two Noble Kinsmen, a play founded on the story of Palamon and Arcite,
and containing what I think irrefragable proofs of Shakespere's writing and versification,
though I am unable to discern anything very Shakesperian either in plot or character. Then
comes the fine, though horrible tragedy of Thierry and Theodoret, in which the misdeeds of
Queen Brunehault find chroniclers who are neither squeamish nor feeble. The beautiful part
of Ordella in this play, though somewhat sentimental and improbable (as is always the case
with Fletcher's very virtuous characters) ranks at the head of its kind, and is much superior
to that of Aspatia in The Maid's Tragedy. The Woman Hater, said to be Fletcher's earliest play,
has a character of rare comic, or at least farcical virtue in the smell-feast Lazarillo with
his Odyssey in chase of the Umbrana's head (a delicacy which is perpetually escaping him);
and The Nice Valour contains, in Chamont and his brother, the most successful attempts of the
English stage at the delineation of the point of honour gone mad. Not so much, perhaps, can
be said for An Honest Man's Fortune, which, with a mask and a clumsy, though in part beautiful,
piece entitled Four Plays in One, makes up the tale. But whosoever has gone through that tale
will, if he has any taste for the subject, admit that such a total of work, so varied in character,
and so full of excellences in all its variety, has not been set to the credit of any name or
names in English literature, if we except only Shakespere. Of the highest and most terrible
graces, as of the sweetest and most poetical, Beaumont and Fletcher may have little to set
beside the masterpieces of some other men; for accomplished, varied, and fertile production,
they need not fear any competition.

It has not been usual to put Thomas Middleton in the front rank among the dramatists immediately
second to Shakespere; but I have myself no hesitation in doing so. If he is not such a poet
as Webster, he is even a better, and certainly a more versatile, dramatist; and if his plays
are inferior as plays to those of Fletcher and Massinger, he has a mastery of the very highest
tragedy, which neither of them could attain. Except the best scenes of The White Devil, and
The Duchess of Malfi, there is nothing out of Shakespere that can match the best scenes of
The Changeling; while Middleton had a comic faculty, in which, to all appearance, Webster was
entirely lacking. A little more is known about Middleton than about most of his fellows. He
was the son of a gentleman, and was pretty certainly born in London about 1570. It does not
appear that he was a university man, but he seems to have been at Gray's Inn. His earliest
known work was not dramatic, and was exceedingly bad. In 1597 he published a verse paraphrase
of the Wisdom of Solomon, which makes even that admirable book unreadable; and if, as seems
pretty certain, the Microcynicon of two years later is his, he is responsible for one of the
worst and feeblest exercises in the school--never a very strong one--of Hall and Marston. Some
prose tracts of the usual kind are not better; but either at the extreme end of the sixteenth
century, or in the very earliest years of the next, Middleton turned his attention to the then
all absorbing drama, and for many years was (chiefly in collaboration) a busy playwright. We
have some score of plays which are either his alone, or in greatest part his. The order of
their composition is very uncertain, and as with most of the dramatists of the period, not
a few of them never appeared in print till long after the author's death. He was frequently
employed in composing pageants for the City of London, and in 1620 was appointed city chronologer.
In 1624 Middleton got into trouble. His play, The Game of Chess, which was a direct attack
on Spain and Rome, and a personal satire on Gondomar, was immensely popular, but its nine days'
run was abruptly stopped on the complaint of the Spanish ambassador; the poet's son, it would
seem, had to appear before the Council, and Middleton himself was (according to tradition)
imprisoned for some time. In this same year he was living at Newington Butts. He died there
in the summer of 1627, and was succeeded as chronologer by Ben Jonson. His widow, Magdalen,
received a gratuity from the Common Council, but seems to have followed her husband in a little
over a year.

Middleton's acknowledged, or at least accepted, habit of collaboration in most of the work
usually attributed to him, and the strong suspicion, if not more than suspicion, that he collaborated
in other plays, afford endless opportunity for the exercise of a certain kind of criticism.
By employing another kind we can discern quite sufficiently a strong individuality in the work
that is certainly, in part or in whole, his; and we need not go farther. He seems to have had
three different kinds of dramatic aptitude, in all of which he excelled. The larger number
of his plays consist of examples of the rattling comedy of intrigue and manners, often openly
representing London life as it was, sometimes transplanting what is an evident picture of home
manners to some foreign scene apparently for no other object than to make it more attractive
to the spectators. To any one at all acquainted with the Elizabethan drama their very titles
speak them. These titles are Blurt Master Constable, Michaelmas Term, A Trick to Catch the
Old One, The Family of Love [a sharp satire on the Puritans], A Mad World, my Masters, No Wit
no Help Like a Woman's, A Chaste Maid in Cheapside, Anything for a Quiet Life, More Dissemblers
besides Women. As with all the humour-comedies of the time, the incidents are not unfrequently
very improbable, and the action is conducted with such intricacy and want of clearly indicated
lines, that it is sometimes very difficult to follow. At the same time, Middleton has a faculty
almost peculiar to himself of carrying, it might almost be said of hustling, the reader or
spectator along, so that he has no time to stop and consider defects. His characters are extremely
human and lively, his dialogue seldom lags, his catastrophes, if not his plots, are often ingenious,
and he is never heavy. The moral atmosphere of his plays is not very refined,--by which I do
not at all mean merely that he indulges in loose situations and loose language. All the dramatists
from Shakespere downwards do that; and Middleton is neither better nor worse than the average.
But in striking contrast to Shakespere and to others, Middleton has no kind of poetical morality
in the sense in which the term poetical justice is better known. He is not too careful that
the rogues shall not have the best of it; he makes his most virtuous and his vilest characters
hobnob together very contentedly; and he is, in short, though never brutal, like the post-Restoration
school, never very delicate. The style, however, of these works of his did not easily admit
of such delicacy, except in the infusion of a strong romantic element such as that which Shakespere
almost always infuses. Middleton has hardly done it more than once--in the charming comedy
of The Spanish Gipsy,--and the result there is so agreeable that the reader only wishes he
had done it oftener.

Usually, however, when his thoughts took a turn of less levity than in these careless humorous
studies of contemporary life, he devoted himself not to the higher comedy, but to tragedy of
a very serious class, and when he did this an odd phenomenon generally manifested itself. In
Middleton's idea of tragedy, as in that of most of the playwrights, and probably all the playgoers
of his day, a comic underplot was a necessity; and, as we have seen, he was himself undoubtedly
able enough to furnish such a plot. But either because he disliked mixing his tragic and comic
veins, or for some unknown reason, he seems usually to have called in on such occasions the
aid of Rowley, a vigorous writer of farce, who had sometimes been joined with him even in his
comic work. Now, not only was Rowley little more than a farce writer, but he seems to have
been either unable to make, or quite careless of making, his farce connect itself in any tolerable
fashion with the tragedy of which it formed a nominal part. The result is seen in its most
perfect imperfection in the two plays of The Mayor of Queenborough and The Changeling, both
named from their comic features, and yet containing tragic scenes, the first of a very high
order, the second of an order only overtopped by Shakespere at his best. The humours of the
cobbler Mayor of Queenborough in the one case, of the lunatic asylum and the courting of its
keeper's wife in the other, are such very mean things that they can scarcely be criticised.
But the desperate love of Vortiger for Rowena in The Mayor, and the villainous plots against
his chaste wife, Castiza, are real tragedy. Even these, however, fall far below the terrible
loves, if loves they are to be called, of Beatrice-Joanna, the heroine of The Changeling, and
her servant, instrument, and murderer, De Flores. The plot of the tragic part of this play
is intricate and not wholly savoury. It is sufficient to say that Beatrice having enticed De
Flores to murder a lover whom she does not love, that so she may marry a lover whom she does
love, is suddenly met by the murderer's demand of her honour as the price of his services.
She submits, and afterwards has to purchase fresh aid of murder from him by a continuance of
her favours that she may escape detection by her husband. Thus, roughly described, the theme
may look like the undigested horrors of Lust's Dominion, of The Insatiate Countess, and of
The Revenger's Tragedy. It is, however, poles asunder from them. The girl, with her southern
recklessness of anything but her immediate desires, and her southern indifference to deceiving
the very man she loves, is sufficiently remarkable, as she stands out of the canvas. But De
Flores,--the broken gentleman, reduced to the position of a mere dependant, the libertine whose
want of personal comeliness increases his mistress's contempt for him, the murderer double
and treble dyed, as audacious as he is treacherous, and as cool and ready as he is fiery in
passion,--is a study worthy to be classed at once with Iago, and inferior only to Iago in their
class. The several touches with which these two characters and their situations are brought
out are as Shakesperian as their conception, and the whole of that part of the play in which
they figure is one of the most wonderful triumphs of English or of any drama. Even the change
of manners and a bold word or two here and there, may not prevent me from giving the latter
part of the central scene:--

    Beat. "Why 'tis impossible thou canst be so wicked,
            Or shelter such a cunning cruelty,
            To make his death the murderer of my honour!
            Thy language is so bold and vicious,
            I cannot see which way I can forgive it
            With any modesty.

    De F. Pish![50] you forget yourself:
            A woman dipped in blood, and talk of modesty!

    Beat. O misery of sin! would I'd been bound
            Perpetually unto my living hate
            In that Pisacquo, than to hear[51] these words.
            Think but upon the distance that creation
            Set 'twixt thy blood and mine, and keep thee there.

    De F. Look but unto your conscience, read me there;
            'Tis a true book, you'll find me there your equal:
            Pish! fly not to your birth, but settle you
            In what the act has made you; you're no more now.
            You must forget your parentage to me;
            You are the deed's creature;[52] by that name
            You lost your first condition, and I shall urge[53] you
            As peace and innocency has turn'd you out,
            And made you one with me.

    Beat. With thee, foul villain!

    De F. Yes, my fair murderess: do you urge me?
            Though thou writ'st maid, thou whore in thine affection!
            'Twas changed from thy first love, and that's a kind
            Of whoredom in thy heart: and he's changed now
            To bring thy second on, thy Alsemero,
            Whom by all sweets that ever darkness tasted
            If I enjoy thee not, thou ne'er enjoyest!
            I'll blast the hopes and joys of marriage,
            I'll confess all; my life I rate at nothing.

    Beat. De Flores!

    De F. I shall rest from all (lover's)[54] plagues then,
            I live in pain now; that [love] shooting eye
            Will burn my heart to cinders.

    Beat. O sir, hear me!

    De F. She that in life and love refuses me,
            In death and shame my partner she shall be.

    Beat. (kneeling). Stay, hear me once for all: I make thee master
            Of all the wealth I have in gold and jewels;
            Let me go poor unto my bed with honour
            And I am rich in all things.

    De F. Let this silence thee;
            The wealth of all Valencia shall not buy
            My pleasure from me.
            Can you weep Fate from its determined purpose?
            So soon may you weep me.

    Beat. Vengeance begins;
            Murder, I see, is followed by more sins:
            Was my creation in the womb so curst
            It must engender with a viper first?

    De F. (raising her). Come, rise and shroud your blushes in my
                  bosom,
            Silence is one of pleasure's best receipts.
            Thy peace is wrought for ever in this yielding.
            'Las, how the turtle pants! thou'lt love anon
            What thou so fear'st and faint'st to venture on."

[50] In orig. "Push," cf. "Tush."

[51] Rather than hear.

[52] A trisyllable, as in strictness it ought to be.

[53] = "claim."

[54] This omission and the substitution in the next line are due to Dyce, and may be called
certissima emendatio.

Two other remarkable plays of Middleton's fall with some differences under the same second
division of his works. These are The Witch and Women Beware Women. Except for the inevitable
and rather attractive comparison with Macbeth, The Witch is hardly interesting. It consists
of three different sets of scenes most inartistically blended,--an awkward and ineffective
variation on the story of Alboin, Rosmunda and the skull for a serious main plot, some clumsy
and rather unsavoury comic or tragi-comic interludes, and the witch scenes. The two first are
very nearly worthless; the third is intrinsically, though far below Macbeth, interesting enough
and indirectly more interesting because of the questions which have been started, as to the
indebtedness of the two poets to each other. The best opinion seems to be that Shakespere most
certainly did not copy Middleton, nor (a strange fancy of some) did he collaborate with Middleton,
and that the most probable thing is that both borrowed their names, and some details from Reginald
Scot's Discovery of Witchcraft. Women Beware Women on the other hand is one of Middleton's
finest works, inferior only to The Changeling in parts, and far superior to it as a whole.
The temptation of Bianca, the newly-married wife, by the duke's instrument, a cunning and shameless
woman, is the title-theme, and in this part again Middleton's Shakesperian verisimilitude and
certainty of touch appear. The end of the play is something marred by a slaughter more wholesale
even than that of Hamlet, and by no means so well justified. Lastly, A Fair Quarrel must be
mentioned, because of the very high praise which it has received from Lamb and others. This
praise has been directed chiefly to the situation of the quarrel between Captain Ager and his
friend, turning on a question (the point of family honour), finely but perhaps a little tediously
argued. The comic scenes, however, which are probably Rowley's, are in his best vein of bustling
swagger.

I have said that Middleton, as it seems to me, has not been fully estimated. It is fortunately
impossible to say the same of Webster, and the reasons of the difference are instructive. Middleton's
great fault is that he never took trouble enough about his work. A little trouble would have
made The Changeling or Women Beware Women, or even The Spanish Gipsy, worthy to rank with all
but Shakespere's very masterpieces. Webster also was a collaborator, apparently an industrious
one; but he never seems to have taken his work lightly. He had, moreover, that incommunicable
gift of the highest poetry in scattered phrases which, as far as we can see, Middleton had
not. Next to nothing is known of him. He may have been parish clerk of St. Andrew's, Holborn;
but the authority is very late, and the commentators seemed to have jumped at it to explain
Webster's fancy for details of death and burial--a cause and effect not sufficiently proportioned.
Mr. Dyce has spent much trouble in proving that he could not have been the author of some Puritan
tracts published a full generation after the date of his masterpieces. Heywood tells us that
he was generally called "Jack," a not uncommon thing when men are christened John. He himself
has left us a few very sententiously worded prefaces which do not argue great critical taste.
We know from the usual sources (Henslowe's Diaries) that he was a working furnisher of plays,
and from many rather dubious title-pages we suppose or know some of the plays he worked at.
Northward Ho! Westward Ho! and Sir John Wyatt are pieces of dramatic journalism in which he
seems to have helped Dekker. He adapted, with additions, Marston's Malcontent, which is, in
a crude way, very much in his own vein: he contributed (according to rather late authority)
some charming scenes (elegantly extracted, on a hint of Mr. Gosse's, by a recent editor) to
A Cure for a Cuckold, one of Rowley's characteristic and not ungenial botches of humour-comedy;
he wrote a bad pageant or two, and some miscellaneous verses. But we know nothing of his life
or death, and his fame rests on four plays, in which no other writer is either known or even
hinted to have had a hand, and which are in different ways of the first order of interest,
if not invariably of the first order of merit. These are The Duchess of Malfi, The White Devil,
The Devil's Law Case, and Appius and Virginia.

Of Appius and Virginia the best thing to be said is to borrow Sainte-Beuve's happy description
of Molière's Don Garcie de Navarre, and to call it an essai pale et noble. Webster is sometimes
very close to Shakespere; but to read Appius and Virginia, and then to read Julius Cæsar or
Coriolanus, is to appreciate, in perhaps the most striking way possible, the universality which
all good judges from Dryden downwards have recognised in the prince of literature. Webster,
though he was evidently a good scholar, and even makes some parade of scholarship, was a Romantic
to the core, and was all abroad in these classical measures. The Devil's Law Case sins in the
opposite way, being hopelessly undigested, destitute of any central interest, and, despite
fine passages, a mere "salmagundi." There remain the two famous plays of The White Devil or
Vittoria Corombona and The Duchess of Malfi--plays which were rarely, if ever, acted after
their author's days, and of which the earlier and, to my judgment, better was not a success
even then, but which the judgment of three generations has placed at the very head of all their
class, and which contain magnificent poetry.

I have said that in my judgment The White Devil is the better of the two; I shall add that
it seems to me very far the better. Webster's plays are comparatively well known, and there
is no space here to tell their rather intricate arguments. It need only be said that the contrast
of the two is striking and unmistakable; and that Webster evidently meant in the one to indicate
the punishment of female vice, in the other to draw pity and terror by the exhibition of the
unprevented but not unavenged sufferings of female virtue. Certainly both are excellent subjects,
and if the latter seem the harder, we have Imogen and Bellafront to show, in the most diverse
material, and with the most diverse setting possible, how genius can manage it. With regard
to The White Devil, it has been suggested with some plausibility that it wants expansion. Certainly
the action is rather crowded, and the recourse to dumb show (which, however, Webster again
permitted himself in The Duchess) looks like a kind of shorthand indication of scenes that
might have been worked out. Even as it is, however, the sequence of events is intelligible,
and the presentation of character is complete. Indeed, if there is any fault to find with it,
it seems to me that Webster has sinned rather by too much detail than by too little. We could
spare several of the minor characters, though none are perhaps quite so otiose as Delio, Julio,
and others in The Duchess of Malfi. We feel (or at least I feel) that Vittoria's villainous
brother Flamineo is not as Iago and Aaron and De Flores are each in his way, a thoroughly live
creature. We ask ourselves (or I ask myself) what is the good of the repulsive and not in the
least effective presentment of the Moor Zanche. Cardinal Monticelso is incontinent of tongue
and singularly feeble in deed,--for no rational man would, after describing Vittoria as a kind
of pest to mankind, have condemned her to a punishment which was apparently little more than
residence in a rather disreputable but by no means constrained boarding-house, and no omnipotent
pope would have let Ludivico loose with a clear inkling of his murderous designs. But when
these criticisms and others are made, The White Devil remains one of the most glorious works
of the period. Vittoria is perfect throughout; and in the justly-lauded trial scene she has
no superior on any stage. Brachiano is a thoroughly lifelike portrait of the man who is completely
besotted with an evil woman. Flamineo I have spoken of, and not favourably; yet in literature,
if not in life, he is a triumph; and above all the absorbing tragic interest of the play, which
it is impossible to take up without finishing, has to be counted in. But the real charm of
The White Devil is the wholly miraculous poetry in phrases and short passages which it contains.
Vittoria's dream of the yew-tree, almost all the speeches of the unfortunate Isabella, and
most of her rival's, have this merit. But the most wonderful flashes of poetry are put in the
mouth of the scoundrel Flamineo, where they have a singular effect. The famous dirge which
Cornelia sings can hardly be spoken of now, except in Lamb's artfully simple phrase "I never
saw anything like it," and the final speeches of Flamineo and his sister deserve the same endorsement.
Nor is even the proud farewell of the Moor Zanche unworthy. It is impossible to describe the
"whirl of spirits" (as the good old-fashioned phrase has it) into which the reading of this
play sets the reader, except by saying that the cause of that whirl is the secret of the best
Elizabethan writers, and that it is nowhere, out of Shakespere, better exemplified than in
the scene partly extracted from Middleton, and in such passages of Vittoria Corombona as the
following:--

     Cor. "Will you make me such a fool? here's a white hand:
            Can blood so soon be wash'd out? let me see;
            When screech-owls croak upon the chimney-tops
            And the strange cricket i' the oven sings and hops,
            When yellow spots do on your hands appear,
            Be certain then you of a corse shall hear.
            Out upon 't, how 'tis speckled! 'h'as handled a toad, sure.
            Cowslip-water is good for the memory:
            Pray, buy me three ounces of 't.

    Flam. I would I were from hence.

     Cor. Do you hear, sir?
            I'll give you a saying which my grand-mother
            Was wont, when she heard the bell toll, to sing o'er
            Unto her lute.

    Flam. Do, an' you will, do.

     Cor. 'Call for the robin-red-breast and the wren,

                [Cornelia doth this in several forms of distraction.

            Since o'er shady groves they hover,
            And with leaves and flowers do cover
            The friendless bodies of unburied men.
            Call unto his funeral dole
            The ant, the field mouse, and the mole,
            To rear him hillocks that shall keep him warm
            And (when gay tombs are robb'd) sustain no harm,
            But keep the wolf far thence, that's foe to men,
            For with his nails he'll dig them up again.'
            They would not bury him 'cause he died in a quarrel;
            But I have an answer for them:
            'Let holy Church receive him duly
            Since he paid the church-tithes truly.'
            His wealth is summ'd, and this is all his store.
            This poor men get, and great men get no more.
            Now the wares are gone, we may shut up shop.
            Bless you, all good people.

                [Exeunt CORNELIA, ZANCHE, and LADIES.

    Flam. I have a strange thing in me, to the which
            I cannot give a name, without it be
            Compassion. I pray, leave me.

                [Exit FRANCISCO DE MEDICIS.

            This night I'll know the utmost of my fate;
            I'll be resolved what my rich sister means
            To assign me for my service.
            Oft gay and honoured robes those tortures try:
            We think cag'd birds sing when indeed they cry.

                [Enter Brachiano's ghost, in his leather cassock and
                  breeches, and boots; with a cowl; in his hand a pot
                  of lily flowers, with a skull in't.

            Ha! I can stand thee: nearer, nearer it.
            What a mockery hath death made thee! thou look'st sad.
            In what place art thou? in yon starry gallery?
            Or in the cursèd dungeon?--No? not speak?
            Pray, sir, resolve me, what religion's best
            For a man to die in? or is it in your knowledge
            To answer me how long I have to live?
            That's the most necessary question.
            Not answer? are you still like some great men
            That only walk like shadows up and down,
            And to no purpose? Say:--

                [The Ghost throws earth upon him and shows him the skull.

            What's that? O, fatal! he throws earth upon me!
            A dead man's skull beneath the roots of flowers!--
            I pray [you], speak, sir: our Italian Church-men
            Make us believe dead men hold conference
            With their familiars, and many times
            Will come to bed to them, and eat with them.

                [Exit GHOST.

    He's gone; and see, the skull and earth are vanished.
    This is beyond melancholy. I do dare my fate
    To do its worst. Now to my sister's lodging
    And sum up all these horrors: the disgrace
    The prince threw on me; next the piteous sight
    Of my dead brother; and my mother's dotage;
    And last this terrible vision: all these
    Shall with Vittoria's bounty turn to good,
    Or I will drown this weapon in her blood."

                [Exit.

The Duchess of Malfi is to my thinking very inferior--full of beauties as it is. In the first
place, we cannot sympathise with the duchess, despite her misfortunes, as we do with the "White
Devil." She is neither quite a virtuous woman (for in that case she would not have resorted
to so much concealment) nor a frank professor of "All for Love." Antonio, her so-called husband,
is an unromantic and even questionable figure. Many of the minor characters, as already hinted,
would be much better away. Of the two brothers the Cardinal is a cold-blooded and uninteresting
debauchee and murderer, who sacrifices sisters and mistresses without any reasonable excuse.
Ferdinand, the other, is no doubt mad enough, but not interestingly mad, and no attempt is
made to account in any way satisfactorily for the delay of his vengeance. By common consent,
even of the greatest admirers of the play, the fifth act is a kind of gratuitous appendix of
horrors stuck on without art or reason. But the extraordinary force and beauty of the scene
where the duchess is murdered; the touches of poetry, pure and simple, which, as in the The
White Devil, are scattered all over the play; the fantastic accumulation of terrors before
the climax; and the remarkable character of Bosola,--justify the high place generally assigned
to the work. True, Bosola wants the last touches, the touches which Shakespere would have given.
He is not wholly conceivable as he is. But as a "Plain Dealer" gone wrong, a "Malcontent" (Webster's
work on that play very likely suggested him), turned villain, a man whom ill-luck and fruitless
following of courts have changed from a cynic to a scoundrel, he is a strangely original and
successful study. The dramatic flashes in the play would of themselves save it. "I am Duchess
of Malfi still," and the other famous one "Cover her face; mine eyes dazzle; she died young,"
often as they have been quoted, can only be quoted again. They are of the first order of their
kind, and, except the "already my De Flores!" of The Changeling, there is nothing in the Elizabethan
drama out of Shakespere to match them.

There is no doubt that some harm has been done to Thomas Heywood by the enthusiastic phrase
in which Lamb described him as "a prose Shakespere." The phrase itself is in the original quite
carefully and sufficiently explained and qualified. But unluckily a telling description of
the kind is sure to go far, while its qualifications remain behind; and (especially since a
reprint by Pearson in the year 1874 made the plays of Heywood, to which one or two have since
been added more or less conjecturally by the industry of Mr. Bullen, accessible as a whole)
a certain revolt has been manifested against the encomium. This revolt is the effect of haste.
"A prose Shakespere" suggests to incautious readers something like Swift, like Taylor, like
Carlyle,--something approaching in prose the supremacy of Shakespere in verse. But obviously
that is not what Lamb meant. Indeed when one remembers that if Shakespere is anything, he is
a poet, the phrase may run the risk of receiving an under--not an over--valuation. It is evident,
however, to any one who reads Lamb's remarks in full and carefully--it is still more evident
to any one who without much caring what Lamb or any one else has said, reads Heywood for himself--what
he did mean. He was looking only at one or two sides of the myriad-sided one, and he justly
saw that Heywood touched Shakespere on these sides, if only in an incomplete and unpoetic manner.
What Heywood has in common with Shakespere, though his prosaic rather than poetic treatment
brings it out in a much less brilliant way, is his sympathy with ordinary and domestic character,
his aversion from the fantastic vices which many of his fellows were prone to attribute to
their characters, his humanity, his kindness. The reckless tragedy of blood and massacre, the
reckless comedy of revelry and intrigue, were always repulsive to him, as far as we can judge
from the comparatively scanty remnant of the hundreds of plays in which he boasted that he
had had a hand, if not a chief hand. Besides these plays (he confesses to authorship or collaboration
in two hundred and twenty) he was a voluminous writer in prose and verse, though I do not myself
pretend to much knowledge of his non-dramatic work. Its most interesting part would have been
a Lives of the Poets, which we know that he intended, and which could hardly have failed to
give much information about his famous contemporaries. As it is, his most remarkable and best-known
work, not contained in one of his dramas, is the curious and constantly quoted passage half
complaining that all the chief dramatists of his day were known by abbreviations of their names,
but characteristically and good-humouredly ending with the license--

    "I hold he loves me best who calls me Tom."

We have unfortunately no knowledge which enables us to call him many names except such as are
derived from critical examination of his works. Little, except that he is said to have been
a Lincolnshire man and a Fellow of Peterhouse, is known of his history. His masterpiece, The
Woman killed with Kindness (in which a deceived husband, coming to the knowledge of his shame,
drives his rival to repentance, and his wife to repentance and death, by his charity), is not
wholly admirable. Shakespere would have felt, more fully than Heywood, the danger of presenting
his hero something of a wittol without sufficient passion of religion or affection to justify
his tolerance. But the pathos is so great, the sense of "the pity of it" is so simply and unaffectedly
rendered, that it is impossible not to rank Heywood very high. The most famous "beauties" are
in the following passage:--

       Anne. "O with what face of brass, what brow of steel,
               Can you unblushing speak this to the face
               Of the espoused wife of so dear a friend?
               It is my husband that maintains your state,
               Will you dishonour him that in your power
               Hath left his whole affairs? I am his wife,
               Is it to me you speak?

    Wendoll.                    "O speak no more:
               For more than this I know and have recorded
               Within the red-leaved table of my heart.
               Fair and of all beloved, I was not fearful
               Bluntly to give my life unto your hand,
               And at one hazard all my worldly means.
               Go, tell your husband; he will turn me off
               And I am then undone: I care not, I,
               'Twas for your sake. Perchance in rage he'll kill me;
               I care not, 'twas for you. Say I incur
               The general name of villain through the world,
               Of traitor to my friend. I care not, I.
               Beggary, shame, death, scandal and reproach
               For you I'll hazard all--why, what care I?
               For you I'll live and in your love I'll die."

Anne capitulates with a suddenness which has been generally and rightly pronounced a blot on
the play; but her husband is informed by a servant and resolves to discover the pair. The action
is prolonged somewhat too much, and the somewhat unmanly strain of weakness in Frankford is
too perceptible; but these scenes are full of fine passages, as this:--

    Fr. "A general silence hath surprised the house,
          And this is the last door. Astonishment,
          Fear and amazement beat[55] upon my heart
          Even as a madman beats upon a drum.
          O keep my eyes, you heavens, before I enter,
          From any sight that may transfix my soul:
          Or if there be so black a spectacle,
          O strike mine eyes stark blind! Or if not so,
          Lend me such patience to digest my grief
          That I may keep this white and virgin hand
          From any violent outrage, or red murder,
          And with that prayer I enter."

[55] First ed. "Play," which I am half inclined to prefer.

A subsequent speech of his--

    "O God, O God that it were possible
    To undo things done,"

hardly comes short of the touch which would have given us instead of a prose Shakespere a Shakespere
indeed; and all the rest of the play, as far as the main plot is concerned, is full of pathos.

In the great number of other pieces attributed to him, written in all the popular styles, except
the two above referred to, merits and defects are mixed up in a very curious fashion. Never
sinking to the lowest depth of the Elizabethan playwright, including some great ones, Heywood
never rises to anything like the highest height. His chronicle plays are very weak, showing
no grasp of heroic character, and a most lamentable slovenliness of rhythm. Few things are
more curious than to contrast with Henry VI. (to which some critics will allow little of Shakespere's
work) and Richard III. the two parts of Edward IV., in which Heywood, after a manner, fills
the gap. There are good lines here and there, and touching traits; but the whole, as a whole,
is quite ludicrously bad, and "written to the gallery," the City gallery, in the most innocent
fashion. If You Know Not Me You Know Nobody, or The Troubles of Queen Elizabeth, also in two
parts, has the same curious innocence, the same prosaic character, but hardly as many redeeming
flashes. Its first part deals with Elizabeth's real "troubles," in her sister's days; its second
with the Armada period and the founding of the Royal Exchange. For Heywood, unlike most of
the dramatists, was always true to the City, even to the eccentric extent of making, in The
Four Prentices of London, Godfrey of Bouillon and his brethren members of the prentice-brotherhood.
His classical and allegorical pieces, such as The Golden Age and its fellows, are most tedious
and not at all brief. The four of them (The Iron Age has two parts) occupy a whole volume of
the reprint, or more than four hundred closely printed pages; and their clumsy dramatisation
of Ovid's Metamorphoses, with any other classical learning that Heywood could think of thrust
in, presents (together with various minor pieces of a somewhat similar kind) as striking a
contrast with Troilus and Cressida, as Edward IV. does with Henry VI. His spectacles and pageants,
chiefly in honour of London (London's Jus Honorarium, with other metaphorical Latin titles
of the same description) are heavy, the weakness of his versification being especially felt
in such pieces. His strength lies in the domestic and contemporary drama, where his pathos
had free play, unrestrained by the necessity of trying to make it rise to chivalrous or heroic
height, and where his keen observation of his fellow-men made him true to mankind in general,
at the same time that he gave a vivid picture of contemporary manners. Of this class of his
plays A Woman killed with Kindness is undoubtedly the chief, but it has not a few companions,
and those in a sufficiently wide and varied class of subject. The Fair Maid of the Exchange
is, perhaps, not now found to be so very delectable and full of mirth as it is asserted to
be on its title-page, because it is full of that improbability and neglect of verisimilitude
which has been noted as the curse of the minor Elizabethan drama. The "Cripple of Fenchurch,"
the real hero of the piece, is a very unlikely cripple; the heroines chop and change their
affections in the most surprising manner; and the characters generally indulge in that curious
self-description and soliloquising in dialogue which is never found in Shakespere, and is found
everywhere else. But it is still a lively picture of contemporary manners. We should be sorry
to lose The Fair Maid of the West with its picture of Devonshire sailors, foreign merchants,
kings of Fez, Bashaws of various parts, Italian dukes, and what not. The two parts make anything
but a good play, but they are decidedly interesting, and their tone supports Mr. Bullen's conjecture
that we owe to Heywood the, in parts, admirable play of Dick of Devonshire, a dramatisation
of the quarter-staff feats in Spain of Richard Peake of Tavistock. The English Traveller may
rank with A Woman killed with Kindness as Heywood's best plays (there is, indeed, a certain
community of subject between them), but A Maidenhead well Lost, and The Witches of Lancashire,
are not far behind it; nor is A Challenge for Beauty. We can hardly say so much for Love's
Mistress, which dramatises the story of Cupid and Psyche, or for The Wise Woman of Hogsdon
(Hoxton), a play rather of Middleton's type. But in The Royal King and Loyal Subject, and in
Fortune by Land and Sea, the author shows again the sympathy with chivalrous character and
adventure which (if he never can be said to be fully up to its level in the matter of poetic
expression) was evidently a favourite and constant motive with him. In short, Heywood, even
at his worst, is a writer whom it is impossible not to like. His very considerable talent,
though it stopped short of genius, was united with a pleasant and genial temper, and little
as we know of his life, his dedications and prefaces make us better acquainted with his personality
than we are with that of much more famous men.

No greater contrast is possible than that between our last two names--Day and Tourneur. Little
is known of them: Day was at Cambridge in 1592-3; Tourneur shared in the Cadiz voyage of 1625
and died on its return. Both, it is pretty certain, were young men at the end of Elizabeth's
reign, and were influenced strongly by the literary fashions set by greater men than themselves.
But whereas Day took to the graceful fantasticalities of Lyly and to the not very savage social
satire of Greene, Tourneur (or Turner) addressed himself to the most ferocious school of sub-Marlovian
tragedy, and to the rugged and almost unintelligible satire of Marston. Something has been
said of his effort in the latter vein, the Transformed Metamorphosis. His two tragedies, The
Atheist's Tragedy and The Revenger's Tragedy, have been rather variously judged. The concentration
of gloomy and almost insane vigour in The Revenger's Tragedy, the splendid poetry of a few
passages which have long ago found a home in the extract books, and the less separable but
equally distinct poetic value of scattered lines and phrases, cannot escape any competent reader.
But, at the same time, I find it almost impossible to say anything for either play as a whole,
and here only I come a long way behind Mr. Swinburne in his admiration of our dramatists. The
Atheist's Tragedy is an inextricable imbroglio of tragic and comic scenes and characters, in
which it is hardly possible to see or follow any clue; while the low extravagance of all the
comedy and the frantic rant of not a little of the tragedy combine to stifle the real pathos
of some of the characters. The Revenger's Tragedy is on a distinctly higher level; the determination
of Vindice to revenge his wrongs, and the noble and hapless figure of Castiza, could not have
been presented as they are presented except by a man with a distinct strain of genius, both
in conception and execution. But the effect, as a whole, is marred by a profusion of almost
all the worst faults of the drama of the whole period from Peele to Davenant. The incoherence
and improbability of the action, the reckless, inartistic, butcherly prodigality of blood and
horrors, and the absence of any kind of redeeming interest of contrasting light to all the
shade, though very characteristic of a class, and that no small one, of Elizabethan drama,
cannot be said to be otherwise than characteristic of its faults. As the best example (others
are The Insatiate Countess, Chettle's Hoffmann, Lust's Dominion, and the singular production
which Mr. Bullen has printed as The Distracted Emperor) it is very well worth reading, and
contrasting with the really great plays of the same class, such as The Jew of Malta and Titus
Andronicus, where, though the horrors are still overdone, yet genius has given them a kind
of passport. But intrinsically it is mere nightmare.

Of a very different temper and complexion is the work of John Day, who may have been a Cambridge
graduate, and was certainly a student of Gonville and Caius, as he describes himself on the
title-page of some of his plays and of a prose tract printed by Mr. Bullen. He appears to have
been dead in 1640, and the chief thing positively known about him is that between the beginning
of 1598 and 1608 he collaborated in the surprising number of twenty-one plays (all but The
Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green unprinted) with Haughton, Chettle, Dekker, and others. The Parliament
of Bees, his most famous and last printed work, is of a very uncommon kind in English--being
a sort of dramatic allegory, touched with a singularly graceful and fanciful spirit. It is
indeed rather a masque than a play, and consists, after the opening Parliament held by the
Master, or Viceroy Bee (quaintly appearing in the original, which may have been printed in
1607, though no copy seems now discoverable earlier than 1641, as "Mr. Bee"), of a series of
characters or sketches of Bee-vices and virtues, which are very human. The termination, which
contains much the best poetry in the piece, and much the best that Day ever wrote, introduces
King Oberon giving judgment on the Bees from "Mr. Bee" downwards and banishing offenders. Here
occurs the often-quoted passage, beginning--

    "And whither must these flies be sent?"

and including the fine speech of Oberon--

    "You should have cried so in your youth."

It should be observed that both in this play and elsewhere passages occur in Day which seem
to have been borrowed or stolen from or by other writers, such as Dekker and Samuel Rowley;
but a charitable and not improbable explanation of this has been found in the known fact of
his extensive and intricate collaboration. The Isle of Gulls, suggested in a way by the Arcadia,
though in general plan also fantastic and, to use a much abused but decidedly convenient word,
pastoral, has a certain flavour of the comedy of manners and of contemporary satire. Then we
have the quaint piece of Humour out of Breath, a kind of study in the for once conjoined schools
of Shakespere and Jonson--an attempt at a combination of humorous and romantic comedy with
some pathetic writing, as here:--

    "[O] Early sorrow art got up so soon?
    What, ere the sun ascendeth in the east?
    O what an early waker art thou grown!
    But cease discourse and close unto thy work.
    Under this drooping myrtle will I sit,
    And work awhile upon my corded net;
    And as I work, record my sorrows past,
    Asking old Time how long my woes shall last.
    And first--but stay! alas! what do I see?
    Moist gum-like tears drop from this mournful tree;
    And see, it sticks like birdlime; 'twill not part,
    Sorrow is even such birdlime at my heart.
    Alas! poor tree, dost thou want company?
    Thou dost, I see't, and I will weep with thee;
    Thy sorrows make me dumb, and so shall mine,
    It shall be tongueless, and so seem like thine.
    Thus will I rest my head unto thy bark,
    Whilst my sighs ease my sorrows."

Something the same may be said of Law Tricks, or Who would have Thought it? which has, however,
in the character of the Count Horatio, a touch of tragedy. Another piece of Day's is in quite
a different vein, being an account in dramatised form of the adventures of the three brothers
Shirley--a kind of play which, from Sir Thomas Stukeley downwards, appears to have been a very
favourite one with Elizabethan audiences, though (as might indeed be expected) it was seldom
executed in a very successful manner. Lastly, or first, if chronological order is taken, comes
The Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green, written by Day in conjunction with Chettle, and ranging
itself with the half historical, half romantic plays which were, as has been pointed out above,
favourites with the first school of dramatists. It seems to have been very popular, and had
a second and third part, not now extant, but is by no means as much to modern taste as some
of the others. Indeed both Day and Tourneur, despite the dates of their pieces, which, as far
as known, are later, belong in more ways than one to the early school, and show how its traditions
survived alongside of the more perfect work of the greater masters. Day himself is certainly
not a great master--indeed masterpieces would have been impossible, if they would not have
been superfluous, in the brisk purveying of theatrical matter which, from Henslowe's accounts,
we see that he kept up. He had fancy, a good deal of wit, considerable versatility, and something
of the same sunshiny temper, with less of the pathos, that has been noticed in Heywood. If
he wrote The Maid's Metamorphosis (also ascribed conjecturally to Lyly), he did something less
dramatically good, but perhaps poetically better, than his other work; and if, as has sometimes
been thought,[56] The Return from Parnassus is his, he is richer still. But even without these,
his existing poetical baggage (the least part of the work which we know he accomplished) is
more than respectable, and shows more perhaps than that of any other distinctly minor writer
the vast amount of loose talent--of miscellaneous inspiration--which was afloat in the air
of his time.

[56] I agree with Professor Hales in thinking it very improbable.

CHAPTER VIII

THE SCHOOL OF SPENSER AND THE TRIBE OF BEN

The reign of James I. is not, in mere poetry, quite such a brilliant period as it is in drama.
The full influence of Donne and of Jonson, which combined to produce the exquisite if not extraordinarily
strong school of Caroline poets, did not work in it. Of its own bards the best, such as Jonson
himself and Drayton, were survivals of the Elizabethan school, and have accordingly been anticipated
here. Nevertheless, there were not a few verse-writers of mark who may be most conveniently
assigned to this time, though, as was the case with so many of their contemporaries, they had
sometimes produced work of note before the accession of the British Solomon, and sometimes
continued to produce it until far into the reign of his son. Especially there are some of much
mark who fall to be noticed here, because their work is not, strictly speaking, of the schools
that flourished under Elizabeth, or of the schools that flourished under Charles. We shall
not find anything of the first interest in them; yet in one way or in another there were few
of them who were unworthy to be contemporaries of Shakespere.

Joshua Sylvester is one of those men of letters whom accident rather than property seems to
have made absurd. He has existed in English literature chiefly as an Englisher of the Frenchman
Du Bartas, whom an even greater ignorance has chosen to regard as something grotesque. Du Bartas
is one of the grandest, if also one of the most unequal, poets of Europe, and Joshua Sylvester,
his translator, succeeded in keeping some of his grandeur if he even added to his inequality.
His original work is insignificant compared with his translation; but it is penetrated with
the same qualities. He seems to have been a little deficient in humour, and his portrait--crowned
with a singularly stiff laurel, throated with a stiffer ruff, and clothed, as to the bust,
with a doublet so stiff that it looks like textile armour--is not calculated to diminish the
popular ridicule. Yet is Sylvester not at all ridiculous. He was certainly a Kentish man, and
probably the son of a London clothier. His birth is guessed, on good grounds, at 1563; and
he was educated at Southampton under the famous refugee, Saravia, to whom he owed that proficiency
in French which made or helped his fame. He did not, despite his wishes, go to either university,
and was put to trade. In this he does not seem to have been prosperous; perhaps he gave too
much time to translation. He was probably patronised by James, and by Prince Henry certainly.
In the last years of his life he was resident secretary to the English company of Merchant
Venturers at Middleburgh, where he died on the 28th September 1618. He was not a fortunate
man, but his descendants seem to have flourished both in England, the West Indies and America.
As for his literary work, it requires no doubt a certain amount of good will to read it. It
is voluminous, even in the original part not very original, and constantly marred by that loquacity
which, especially in times of great inspiration, comes upon the uninspired or not very strongly
inspired. The point about Sylvester, as about so many others of his time, is that, unlike the
minor poets of our day and of some others, he has constant flashes--constant hardly separable,
but quite perceivable, scraps, which show how genially heated the brain of the nation was.
Nor should it be forgotten that his Du Bartas had a great effect for generations. The man of
pure science may regret that generations should have busied themselves about anything so thoroughly
unscientific; but with that point of view we are unconcerned. The important thing is that the
generations in question learnt from Sylvester to take a poetical interest in the natural world.

John Davies of Hereford, who must have been born at about the same time as Sylvester, and who
certainly died in the same year, is another curiosity of literature. He was only a writing-master,--a
professor of the curious, elaborate penmanship which is now quite dead,--and he seems at no
time to have been a man of wealth. But he was, in his vocation or otherwise, familiar with
very interesting people, both of the fashionable and the literary class. He succeeded, poor
as he was, in getting thrice married to ladies born; and, though he seems to have been something
of a coxcomb, he was apparently as little of a fool as coxcombry will consist with. His work
(of the most miscellaneous character and wholly in verse, though in subject as well as treatment
often better suiting prose) is voluminous, and he might have been wholly treated (as he has
already been referred to) with the verse pamphleteers, especially Rowlands, of an earlier chapter.
But fluent and unequal as his verse is--obviously the production of a man who had little better
to offer than journalism, but for whom the times did not provide the opening of a journalist--there
is a certain salt of wit in it which puts him above the mere pamphleteers. His epigrams (most
of which are contained in The Scourge of Folly, undated, like others of his books) are by no
means despicable; the Welsh ancestors, whom he did not fail to commemorate, seem to have endowed
him with some of that faculty for lampooning and "flyting" which distinguished the Celtic race.
That they are frequently lacking in point ought hardly to be objected to him; for the age had
construed the miscellaneous examples of Martial indulgently, and Jonson in his own generation,
and Herrick after him (two men with whom Davies cannot compare for a moment in general power),
are in their epigrams frequently as pointless and a good deal coarser. His variations on English
proverbs are also remarkable. He had a respectable vein of religious moralising, as the following
sonnet from Wit's Pilgrimage will show:--

    "When Will doth long to effect her own desires,
    She makes the Wit, as vassal to the will,
    To do what she, howe'er unright, requires,
    Which wit doth, though repiningly, fulfil.
    Yet, as well pleased (O languishing wit!)
    He seems to effect her pleasure willingly,
    And all his reasons to her reach doth fit;
    So like the world, gets love by flattery.
    That this is true a thousand witnesses,
    Impartial conscience, will directly prove;
    Then if we would not willingly transgress,
    Our will should swayed be by rules of love,
    Which holds the multitude of sins because
    Her sin morally to him his servants draws."

The defect of Davies, as of not a few of his contemporaries, is that, having the power of saying
things rememberable enough, he set himself to wrap them up and merge them in vast heaps of
things altogether unrememberable. His successors have too often resembled him only in the latter
part of his gift. His longer works (Mirum in Modum, Summa Totalis, Microcosmus, The Holy Rood,
Humours Heaven on Earth, are some of their eccentric titles) might move simple wonder if a
century which has welcomed The Course of Time, and Yesterday, To-day, and For Ever, not to
mention examples even more recent than these, had any great reason to throw stones at its forerunners.
But to deal with writers like Davies is a little difficult in a book which aims both at being
nothing if not critical, and at doing justice to the minor as well as to the major luminaries
of the time: while the difficulty is complicated by the necessity of not saying ditto to the
invaluable labourers who have reintroduced him and others like him to readers. I am myself
full of the most unfeigned gratitude to my friend Dr. Grosart, to Professor Arber, and to others,
for sparing students, whose time is the least disposable thing they have, visits to public
libraries or begging at rich men's doors for the sight of books. I should be very sorry both
as a student and as a lover of literature not to possess Davies, Breton, Sylvester, Quarles,
and the rest, and not to read them from time to time. But I cannot help warning those who are
not professed students of the subject that in such writers they have little good to seek; I
cannot help noting the difference between them and other writers of a very different order,
and above all I cannot help raising a mild protest against the encomiums which are sometimes
passed on them. Southey, in that nearly best of modern books unclassified, The Doctor, has
a story of a glover who kept no gloves that were not "Best." But when the facts came to be
narrowly inquired into, it was found that the ingenious tradesman had no less than five qualities--"Best,"
"Better than Best," "Better than better than Best," "Best of All," and the "Real Best." Such
language is a little delusive, and when I read the epithets of praise which are sometimes lavished,
not by the same persons, on Breton and Watson, I ask myself what we are to say of Spenser and
Shakespere.

Davies has no doubt also suffered from the fact that he had a contemporary of the same name
and surname, who was not only of higher rank, but of considerably greater powers. Sir John
Davies was a Wiltshire man of good family: his mother, Mary Bennet of Pyt-house, being still
represented by the Benett-Stanfords of Dorsetshire and Brighton. Born about 1569, he was a
member of the University of Oxford, and a Templar; but appears to have been anything but a
docile youth, so that both at Oxford and the Temple he came to blows with the authorities.
He seems, however, to have gone back to Oxford, and to have resided there till close of middle
life; some if not most of his poems dating thence. He entered Parliament in 1601, and after
figuring in the Opposition during Elizabeth's last years, was taken into favour, like others
in similar circumstances, by James. Immediately after the latter's accession Davies became
a law officer for Ireland, and did good and not unperilous service there. He was mainly resident
in Ireland for some thirteen years, producing during the time a valuable "Discovery of the
Causes of the Irish Discontent." For the last ten years of his life he seems to have practised
as serjeant-at-law in England, frequently serving as judge or commissioner of assize, and he
died in 1626. His poetical work consists chiefly of three things, all written before 1600.
These are Nosce Teipsum, or the immortality of the soul, in quatrains, and as light as the
unsuitableness of the subject to verse will allow; a singularly clever collection of acrostics
called Astraea, all making the name of Elizabetha Regina; and the Orchestra, or poem on dancing,
which has made his fame. Founded as it is on a mere conceit--the reduction of all natural phenomena
to a grave and regulated motion which the author calls dancing--it is one of the very best
poems of the school of Spenser, and in harmony of metre (the seven-lined stanza) and grace
of illustration is sometimes not too far behind Spenser himself. An extract from it may be
fitly followed by one of the acrostics of Astraea:--

    "As the victorious twins of Leda and Jove,
    (That taught the Spartans dancing on the sands
    Of swift Eurotas) dance in heaven above,
    Knit and united with eternal bands;
    Among the stars, their double image stands,
    Where both are carried with an equal pace,
    Together jumping in their turning race.

    "This is the net, wherein the sun's bright eye,
    Venus and Mars entangled did behold;
    For in this dance, their arms they so imply,
    As each doth seem the other to enfold.
    What if lewd wits another tale have told
    Of jealous Vulcan, and of iron chains!
    Yet this true sense that forgèd lie contains.

    "These various forms of dancing Love did frame,
    And besides these, a hundred millions more;
    And as he did invent, he taught the same:
    With goodly gesture, and with comely show,
    Now keeping state, now humbly honouring low.
    And ever for the persons and the place
    He taught most fit, and best according grace."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Each day of thine, sweet month of May,
    Love makes a solemn Holy Day.
    I will perform like duty;
    Since thou resemblest every way
    Astraea, Queen of Beauty.
    Both you, fresh beauties do partake,
    Either's aspect, doth summer make.
    Thoughts of young Love awaking,
    Hearts you both do cause to ache;
    And yet be pleased with aching.
    Right dear art thou, and so is She,
    Even like attractive sympathy
    Gains unto both, like dearness.
    I ween this made antiquity
    Name thee, sweet May of majesty,
    As being both like in clearness."

The chief direct followers of Spenser were, however, Giles and Phineas Fletcher, and William
Browne. The two first were, as has been said, the cousins of John Fletcher the dramatist, and
the sons of Dr. Giles Fletcher, the author of Licia. The exact dates and circumstances of their
lives are little known. Both were probably born between 1580 and 1590. Giles, though the younger
(?), died vicar of Alderton in Suffolk in 1623: Phineas, the elder (?), who was educated at
Eton and King's College, Cambridge (Giles was a member of Trinity College in the same university),
also took orders, and was for nearly thirty years incumbent of Hilgay-in-the-Fens, dying in 1650.

Giles's extant work is a poem in four cantos or parts, generally entitled Christ's Victory
and Triumph. He chose a curious and rather infelicitous variation on the Spenserian stanza
ababbccc, keeping the Alexandrine but missing the seventh line, with a lyrical interlude here
and there. The whole treatment is highly allegorical, and the lusciousness of Spenser is imitated
and overdone.

    "Upon a hilly bank her head she cast,
    On which the bower of Vain-delight was built,
    White and red roses for her face were placed,
    And for her tresses marigolds were spilt:
    Them broadly she displayed like flaming gilt,
    Till in the ocean the glad day were drowned:
    Then up again her yellow locks she wound,
    And with green fillets in their pretty cauls them bound.

    "What should I here depaint her lily hand,
    Her veins of violets, her ermine breast,
    Which there in orient colours living stand:
    Or how her gown with living leaves is drest,
    Or how her watchman, armed with boughy crest,
    A wall of prim hid in his bushes bears
    Shaking at every wind their leafy spears
    While she supinely sleeps, nor to be wakèd fears."

The Purple Island, Phineas Fletcher's chief work, is an allegorical poem of the human body,
written in a stanza different only from that of Christ's Victory in being of seven lines only,
the quintet of Giles being cut down to a regular elegiac quatrain. This is still far below
the Spenserian stanza, and the colour is inferior to that of Giles. Phineas follows Spenser's
manner, or rather his mannerisms, very closely indeed, and in detached passages not unsuccessfully,
as here, where the transition from Spenser to Milton is marked:--

    "The early morn lets out the peeping day,
    And strew'd his path with golden marigolds:
    The Moon grows wan, and stars fly all away.
    Whom Lucifer locks up in wonted folds
    Till light is quench'd, and Heaven in seas hath flung
    The headlong day: to th' hill the shepherds throng
    And Thirsil now began to end his task and song:

    "'Who now, alas! shall teach my humble vein,
    That never yet durst peep from covert glade,
    But softly learnt for fear to sigh and plain
    And vent her griefs to silent myrtle's shade?
    Who now shall teach to change my oaten quill
    For trumpet 'larms, or humble verses fill
    With graceful majesty, and lofty rising skill?

    "'Ah, thou dread Spirit! shed thy holy fire,
    Thy holy flame, into my frozen heart;
    Teach thou my creeping measures to aspire
    And swell in bigger notes, and higher art:
    Teach my low Muse thy fierce alarms to ring,
    And raise my soft strain to high thundering,
    Tune thou my lofty song; thy battles must I sing.

    "'Such as thou wert within the sacred breast
    Of that thrice famous poet, shepherd, king;
    And taught'st his heart to frame his cantos best
    Of all that e'er thy glorious works did sing;
    Or as, those holy fishers once among,
    Thou flamedst bright with sparkling parted tongues;
    And brought'st down Heaven to Earth in those all-conquering songs.'"

But where both fail is first in the adjustment of the harmony of the individual stanza as a
verse paragraph, and secondly in the management of their fable. Spenser has everywhere a certain
romance-interest both of story and character which carries off in its steady current, where
carrying off is needed, both his allegorising and his long descriptions. The Fletchers, unable
to impart this interest, or unconscious of the necessity of imparting it, lose themselves in
shallow overflowings like a stream that overruns its bank. But Giles was a master of gorgeous
colouring in phrase and rhythm, while in The Purple Island there are detached passages not
quite unworthy of Spenser, when he is not at his very best--that is to say, worthy of almost
any English poet. Phineas, moreover, has, to leave Britain's Ida alone, a not inconsiderable
amount of other work. His Piscatory Eclogues show the influence of The Shepherd's Calendar
as closely as, perhaps more happily than, The Purple Island shows the influence of The Faërie
Queene, and in his miscellanies there is much musical verse. It is, however, very noticeable
that even in these occasional poems his vehicle is usually either the actual stanza of the
Island, or something equally elaborate, unsuited though such stanzas often are to the purpose.
These two poets indeed, though in poetical capacity they surpassed all but one or two veterans
of their own generation, seem to have been wholly subdued and carried away by the mighty flood
of their master's poetical production. It is probable that, had he not written, they would
not have written at all; yet it is possible that, had he not written, they would have produced
something much more original and valuable. It ought to be mentioned that the influence of both
upon Milton, directly and as handing on the tradition of Spenser, was evidently very great.
The strong Cambridge flavour (not very perceptible in Spenser himself, but of which Milton
is, at any rate in his early poems, full) comes out in them, and from Christ's Victory at any
rate the poet of Lycidas, the Ode on the Nativity, and Paradise Regained, apparently "took
up," as the phrase of his own day went, not a few commodities.

The same rich borrower owed something to William Browne, who, in his turn, like the Fletchers,
but with a much less extensive indebtedness, levied on Spenser. Browne, however, was free from
the genius loci, being a Devonshire man born and of Exeter College, Oxford, by education. He
was born, they say, in 1591, published the first part of Britannia's Pastorals in 1613, made
many literary and some noble acquaintances, is thought to have lived for some time at Oxford
as a tutor, and either in Surrey or in his native county for the rest of his life, which is
(not certainly) said to have ended about 1643. Browne was evidently a man of very wide literary
sympathy, which saved him from falling into the mere groove of the Fletchers. He was a personal
friend and an enthusiastic devotee of Jonson, Drayton, Chapman. He was a student of Chaucer
and Occleve. He was the dear friend and associate of a poet more gifted but more unequal than
himself, George Wither. All this various literary cultivation had the advantage of keeping
him from being a mere mocking-bird, though it did not quite provide him with any prevailing
or wholly original pipe of his own. Britannia's Pastorals (the third book of which remained
in MS. for more than two centuries) is a narrative but extremely desultory poem, in fluent
and somewhat loose couplets, diversified with lyrics full of local colour, and extremely pleasant
to read, though hopelessly difficult to analyse in any short space, or indeed in any space
at all. Browne seems to have meandered on exactly as the fancy took him; and his ardent love
for the country, his really artistic though somewhat unchastened gift of poetical description
and presentment enabled him to go on just as he pleased, after a fashion, of which here are
two specimens in different measures:--

                                "'May first
    (Quoth Marin) swains give lambs to thee;
    And may thy flood have seignory
    Of all floods else; and to thy fame
    Meet greater springs, yet keep thy name.
    May never newt, nor the toad
    Within thy banks make their abode!
    Taking thy journey from the sea
    May'st thou ne'er happen in thy way
    On nitre or on brimstone mine,
    To spoil thy taste! This spring of thine,
    Let it of nothing taste but earth,
    And salt conceived in their birth.
    Be ever fresh! Let no man dare
    To spoil thy fish, make lock or wear,
    But on thy margent still let dwell
    Those flowers which have the sweetest smell.
    And let the dust upon thy strand
    Become like Tagus' golden sand.
    Let as much good betide to thee
    As thou hast favour shew'd to me.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Here left the bird the cherry, and anon
    Forsook her bosom, and for more is gone,
    Making such speedy flights into the thick
    That she admir'd he went and came so quick.
    Then, lest his many cherries should distaste,
    Some other fruit he brings than he brought last.
    Sometime of strawberries a little stem
    Oft changing colours as he gather'd them,
    Some green, some white, some red, on them infus'd,
    These lov'd, these fear'd, they blush'd to be so us'd.
    The peascod green, oft with no little toil
    He'd seek for in the fattest, fertil'st soil
    And rend it from the stalk to bring it to her,
    And in her bosom for acceptance woo her.
    No berry in the grove or forest grew
    That fit for nourishment the kind bird knew,
    Nor any powerful herb in open field
    To serve her brood the teeming earth did yield,
    But with his utmost industry he sought it,
    And to the cave for chaste Marina brought it."

The Shepherd's Pipe, besides reproducing Occleve, is in parts reminiscent of Chaucer, in parts
of Spenser, but always characterised by the free and unshackled movement which is Browne's
great charm; and the same characteristics appear in the few minor poems attributed to him.
Browne has been compared to Keats, who read and loved him, and there are certainly not a few
points of resemblance. Of Keats's higher or more restrained excellences, such as appear in
the finest passages of St. Agnes' Eve, and Hyperion, in the Ode to a Grecian Urn, and such
minor pieces as In a Drear-Nighted December, Browne had nothing. But he, like Keats, had that
kind of love of Nature which is really the love of a lover; and he had, like Keats, a wonderful
gift of expression of his love.[57] Nor is he ever prosaic, a praise which certainly cannot
be accorded to some men of far greater repute, and perhaps of occasionally higher gifts both
in his own time and others. The rarest notes of Apollo he has not, but he is never driven,
as the poet and friend of his, to whom we next come, was often driven, to the words of Mercury.
This special gift was not very common at the time; and though that time produced better poets
than Browne, it is worth noting in him. He may never reach the highest poetry, but he is always
a poet.

[57] Something of the same love, but unluckily much less of the same gift, occurs in the poems
of a friend of Browne's once hardly known except by some fair verses on Shakespere ("Renowned
Spenser," etc.), but made fully accessible by Mr. R. Warwick Bond in 1893. This was William
Basse, a retainer of the Wenman family near Thame, the author, probably or certainly, of a
quaint defence of retainership, Sword and Buckler (1602), and of other poems--Pastoral Elegies,
Urania, Polyhymnia, etc.--together with an exceedingly odd piece, The Metamorphosis of the
Walnut-Tree of Boarstall, which is not quite like anything else of the time. Basse, who seems
also to have spelt his name "Bas," and perhaps lived and wrote through the first forty or fifty
years of the seventeenth century, is but a moderate poet. Still he is not contemptible, and
deserves to rank as a member of the Spenserian family on the pastoral side; while the Walnut-Tree,
though it may owe something to The Oak and the Brere, has a quaintness which is not in Spenser,
and not perhaps exactly anywhere else.

The comparative impotence of even the best criticism to force writers on public attention has
never been better illustrated than in the case of George Wither himself. The greater part of
a century has passed since Charles Lamb's glowing eulogy of him was written, and the terms
of that eulogy have never been contested by competent authority. Yet there is no complete collection
of his work in existence, and there is no complete collection even of the poems, saving a privately
printed one which is inaccessible except in large libraries, and to a few subscribers. His
sacred poems, which are not his best, were indeed reprinted in the Library of Old Authors;
and one song of his, the famous "Shall I Wasting in Despair," is universally known. But the
long and exquisite poem of Philarete was not generally known (if it is generally known now,
which may be doubted) till Mr. Arber reprinted it in the fourth volume of his English Garner.
Nor can Fidelia and The Shepherd's Hunting, things scarcely inferior, be said to be familiar
to the general reader. For this neglect there is but one excuse, and that an insufficient one,
considering the immense quantity of very indifferent contemporary work which has had the honour
of modern publication. What the excuse is we shall say presently. Wither was born at Brentworth,
in the Alresford district of Hampshire (a district afterwards delightfully described by him),
on 11th June 1588. His family was respectable; and though not the eldest son, he had at one
time some landed property. He was for two years at Magdalen College, Oxford, of which he speaks
with much affection, but was removed before taking his degree. After a distasteful experience
of farm work, owing to reverses of fortune in his family he came to London, entered at Lincoln's
Inn, and for some years haunted the town and the court. In 1613 he published his Abuses Stript
and Whipt, one of the general and rather artificial satires not unfashionable at the time.
For this, although the book has no direct personal reference that can be discovered, he was
imprisoned in the Marshalsea; and there wrote the charming poem of The Shepherd's Hunting,
1615, and probably also Fidelia, an address from a faithful nymph to an inconstant swain, which,
though inferior to The Shepherd's Hunting and to Philarete in the highest poetical worth, is
a signal example of Wither's copious and brightly-coloured style. Three years later came the
curious personal poem of the Motto, and in 1622 Philarete itself, which was followed in the
very next year by the Hymns and Songs of the Church. Although Wither lived until 2d May 1667,
and was constantly active with his pen, his Hallelujah, 1641, another book of sacred verse,
is the only production of his that has received or that deserves much praise. The last thirty
years of his long life were eventful and unfortunate. After being a somewhat fervent Royalist,
he suddenly changed his creed at the outbreak of the great rebellion, sold his estate to raise
men for the Parliament, and was active in its cause with pen as well as with sword. Naturally
he got into trouble at the Restoration (as he had previously done with Cromwell), and was imprisoned
again, though after a time he was released. At an earlier period he had been in difficulties
with the Stationers' Company on the subject of a royal patent which he had received from James,
and which was afterwards (though still fruitlessly) confirmed by Charles, for his Hymns. Indeed,
Wither, though a man of very high character, seems to have had all his life what men of high
character not unfrequently have, a certain facility for getting into what is vulgarly called
hot-water.

The defect in his work, which has been referred to above, and which is somewhat passed over
in the criticisms of Lamb and others, is its amazing inequality. This is the more remarkable
in that evidence exists of not infrequent retouching on his part with the rather unusual result
of improvement--a fact which would seem to show that he possessed some critical faculty. Such
possession, however, seems on the other hand to be quite incompatible with the production of
the hopeless doggerel which he not infrequently signs. The felicity of language and the command
of rhythmical effect which he constantly displays, are extraordinary, as for instance in the
grand opening of his first Canticle:--

    "Come kiss me with those lips of thine,
      For better are thy loves than wine;
    And as the pourèd ointments be
      Such is the savour of thy name,
    And for the sweetness of the same
      The virgins are in love with thee."

Compare the following almost unbelievable rubbish--

    "As we with water wash away
      Uncleanness from our flesh,
    And sometimes often in a day
      Ourselves are fain to wash."

Even in his earlier and purely secular work there is something, though less of this inequality,
and its cause is not at all dubious. No poet, certainly no poet of merit, seems to have written
with such absolute spontaneity and want of premeditation as Wither. The metre which was his
favourite, and which he used with most success--the trochaic dimeter catalectic of seven syllables--lends
itself almost as readily as the octosyllable to this frequently fatal fluency; but in Wither's
hands, at least in his youth and early manhood, it is wonderfully successful, as here:--

    "And sometimes, I do admire
    All men burn not with desire.
    Nay, I muse her servants are not
    Pleading love: but O they dare not:
    And I, therefore, wonder why
    They do not grow sick and die.
    Sure they would do so, but that,
    By the ordinance of Fate,
    There is some concealed thing
    So each gazer limiting,
    He can see no more of merit
    Than beseems his worth and spirit.
    For, in her, a grace there shines
    That o'erdaring thoughts confines,
    Making worthless men despair
    To be loved of one so fair.
    Yea the Destinies agree
    Some good judgments blind should be:
    And not gain the power of knowing
    Those rare beauties, in her growing.
    Reason doth as much imply,
    For, if every judging eye
    Which beholdeth her should there
    Find what excellences are;
    All, o'ercome by those perfections
    Would be captive to affections.
    So (in happiness unblest)
    She for lovers should not rest."

Nor had he at times a less original and happy command of the rhymed decasyllabic couplet, which
he sometimes handles after a fashion which makes one almost think of Dryden, and sometimes
after a fashion (as in the lovely description of Alresford Pool at the opening of Philarete)
which makes one think of more modern poets still. Besides this metrical proficiency and gift,
Wither at this time (he thought fit to apologise for it later) had a very happy knack of blending
the warm amatory enthusiasm of his time with sentiments of virtue and decency. There is in
him absolutely nothing loose or obscene, and yet he is entirely free from the milk-and-water
propriety which sometimes irritates the reader in such books as Habington's Castara. Wither
is never mawkish, though he is never loose, and the swing of his verse at its best is only
equalled by the rush of thought and feeling which animates it. As it is perhaps necessary to
justify this high opinion, we may as well give the "Alresford Pool" above noted. It is like
Browne, but it is better than anything Browne ever did; being like Browne, it is not unlike
Keats; it is also singularly like Mr. William Morris.

    "For pleasant was that Pool; and near it, then,
    Was neither rotten marsh nor boggy fen.
    It was not overgrown with boisterous sedge,
    Nor grew there rudely, then, along the edge
    A bending willow, nor a prickly bush,
    Nor broad-leafed flag, nor reed, nor knotty rush:
    But here, well ordered, was a grove with bowers;
    There, grassy plots, set round about with flowers.
    Here, you might, through the water, see the land
    Appear, strewed o'er with white or yellow sand.
    Yon, deeper was it; and the wind, by whiffs,
    Would make it rise, and wash the little cliffs;
    On which, oft pluming, sate, unfrighted then
    The gagling wild goose, and the snow-white swan,
    With all those flocks of fowl, which, to this day
    Upon those quiet waters breed and play."

When to this gift of description is added a frequent inspiration of pure fancy, it is scarcely
surprising that--

    "Such a strain as might befit
    Some brave Tuscan poet's wit,"

to borrow a couplet of his own, often adorns Wither's verse.

Two other poets of considerable interest and merit belong to this period, who are rather Scotch
than English, but who have usually been included in histories of English literature--Drummond
of Hawthornden, and Sir William Alexander, Earl of Stirling. Both, but especially Drummond,
exhibit equally with their English contemporaries the influences which produced the Elizabethan
Jacobean poetry; and though I am not myself disposed to go quite so far, the sonnets of Drummond
have sometimes been ranked before all others of the time except Shakespere's.

William Drummond was probably born at the beautiful seat whence he derived his designation,
on 13th December 1585. His father was Sir John Drummond, and he was educated in Edinburgh and
in France, betaking himself, like almost all young Scotchmen of family, to the study of the
law. He came back to Scotland from France in 1610, and resided there for the greater part of
his life, though he left it on at least two occasions for long periods, once travelling on
the continent for eight years to recover from the grief of losing a lady to whom he was betrothed,
and once retiring to avoid the inconveniences of the Civil War. Though a Royalist, Drummond
submitted to be requisitioned against the Crown, but as an atonement he is said to have died
of grief at Charles I.'s execution in 1649. The most famous incidents of his life are the visit
that Ben Jonson paid to him, and the much discussed notes of that visit which Drummond left
in manuscript. It would appear, on the whole, that Drummond was an example of a well-known
type of cultivated dilettante, rather effeminate, equally unable to appreciate Jonson's boisterous
ways and to show open offence at them, and in the same way equally disinclined to take the
popular side and to endure risk and loss in defending his principles. He shows better in his
verse. His sonnets are of the true Elizabethan mould, exhibiting the Petrarchian grace and
romance, informed with a fire and aspiring towards a romantic ideal beyond the Italian. Like
the older writers of the sonnet collections generally, Drummond intersperses his quatorzains
with madrigals, lyrical pieces of various lengths, and even with what he calls "songs,"--that
is to say, long poems in the heroic couplet. He was also a skilled writer of elegies, and two
of his on Gustavus Adolphus and on Prince Henry have much merit. Besides the madrigals included
in his sonnets he has left another collection entitled "Madrigals and Epigrams," including
pieces both sentimental and satirical. As might be expected the former are much better than
the latter, which have the coarseness and the lack of point noticeable in most of the similar
work of this time from Jonson to Herrick. We have also of his a sacred collection (again very
much in accordance with the practice of his models of the preceding generation), entitled Flowers
of Sion, and consisting, like the sonnets, of poems of various metres. One of these is noticeable
as suggesting the metre of Milton's "Nativity," but with an alteration of line number and rhyme
order which spoils it. Yet a fourth collection of miscellanies differs not much in constitution
from the others, and Drummond's poetical work is completed by some local pieces, such as Forth
Feasting, some hymns and divine poems, and an attempt in Macaronic called Polemo-Middinia,
which is perhaps not his. He was also a prose writer, and a tract, entitled The Cypress Grove,
has been not unjustly ranked as a kind of anticipation of Sir Thomas Browne, both in style
and substance. Of his verse a sonnet and a madrigal may suffice, the first of which can be
compared with the Sleep sonnet given earlier:--

    "Sleep, Silence' child, sweet father of soft rest,
    Prince whose approach peace to all mortals brings,
    Indifferent host to shepherds and to kings,
    Sole comforter of minds which are oppressed;
    Lo, by thy charming rod, all breathing things
    Lie slumb'ring, with forgetfulness possess'd,
    And yet o'er me to spread thy drowsy wings
    Thou spar'st, alas! who cannot be thy guest.
    Since I am thine, O come, but with that face
    To inward light, which thou art wont to show,
    With feignèd solace ease a true felt woe;
    Or if, deaf god, thou do deny that grace,
    Come as thou wilt, and what thou wilt bequeath:
    I long to kiss the image of my death."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "To the delightful green
    Of you, fair radiant een,
    Let each black yield, beneath the starry arch.
    Eyes, burnish'd Heavens of love,
    Sinople[58] lamps of Jove,
    Save all those hearts which with your flames you parch
    Two burning suns you prove;
    All other eyes, compared with you, dear lights
    Are Hells, or if not Hells, yet dumpish nights.
    The heavens (if we their glass
    The sea believe) are green, not perfect blue;
    They all make fair, whatever fair yet was,
    And they are fair because they look like you."

[58] In heraldry (but not English heraldry) = "green."

Sir William Alexander, a friend and countryman of Drummond (who bewailed him in more than one
mournful rhyme of great beauty), was born in 1580 of a family which, though it had for some
generations borne the quasi-surname Alexander, is said to have been a branch of the Clan Macdonald.
Alexander early took to a court life, was much concerned in the proposed planting of Nova Scotia,
now chiefly remembered from its connection with the Order of Baronets, was Secretary of State
for Scotland, and was raised to the peerage. He died in 1640. Professor Masson has called him
"the second-rate Scottish sycophant of an inglorious despotism." He might as well be called
"the faithful servant of monarchy in its struggle with the encroachments of Republicanism,"
and one description would be as much question-begging as the other. But we are here concerned
only with his literary work, which was considerable in bulk and quality. It consists chiefly
of a collection of sonnets (varied as usual with madrigals, etc.), entitled Aurora; of a long
poem on Doomsday in an eight-lined stanza; of a Paraenesis to Prince Henry; and of four "monarchic
tragedies" on Darius, Croesus, Alexander, and Cæsar, equipped with choruses and other appliances
of the literary rather than the theatrical tragedy. It is perhaps in these choruses that Alexander
appears at his best; for his special forte was grave and stately declamation, as the second
of the following extracts will prove. The first is a sonnet from Aurora:--

    "Let some bewitched with a deceitful show,
    Love earthly things unworthily esteem'd,
    And losing that which cannot be redeemed
    Pay back with pain according as they owe:
    But I disdain to cast my eyes so low,
    That for my thoughts o'er base a subject seem'd,
    Which still the vulgar course too beaten deem'd;
    And loftier things delighted for to know.
    Though presently this plague me but with pain,
    And vex the world with wondering at my woes:
    Yet having gained that long desired repose
    My mirth may more miraculous remain.
    That for the which long languishing I pine,
    It is a show, but yet a show divine."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Those who command above,
    High presidents of Heaven,
    By whom all things do move,
    As they have order given,
    What worldling can arise
    Against them to repine?
    Whilst castled in the skies
    With providence divine;
    They force this peopled round,
    Their judgments to confess,
    And in their wrath confound
    Proud mortals who transgress
    The bounds to them assigned
    By Nature in their mind.

    "Base brood of th' Earth, vain man,
    Why brag'st thou of thy might?
    The Heavens thy courses scan,
    Thou walk'st still in their sight;
    Ere thou wast born, thy deeds
    Their registers dilate,
    And think that none exceeds
    The bounds ordain'd by fate;
    What heavens would have thee to,
    Though they thy ways abhor,
    That thou of force must do,
    And thou canst do no more:
    This reason would fulfil,
    Their work should serve their will.

    "Are we not heirs of death,
    In whom there is no trust?
    Who, toss'd with restless breath,
    Are but a drachm of dust;
    Yet fools whenas we err,
    And heavens do wrath contract,
    If they a space defer
    Just vengeance to exact,
    Pride in our bosom creeps,
    And misinforms us thus
    That love in pleasure sleeps
    Or takes no care of us:
    'The eye of Heaven beholds
    What every heart enfolds.'"

Not a few of his other sonnets are also worth reading, and the unpromising subject of Doomsday
(which connects itself in style partly with Spenser, but perhaps still more with The Mirror
for Magistrates), does not prevent it from containing fine passages. Alexander had indeed more
power of sustained versification than his friend Drummond, though he hardly touches the latter
in point of the poetical merit of short isolated passages and poems. Both bear perhaps a little
too distinctly the complexion of "Gentlemen of the Press"--men who are composing poems because
it is the fashion, and because their education, leisure, and elegant tastes lead them to prefer
that form of occupation. But perhaps what is most interesting about them is the way in which
they reproduce on a smaller scale the phenomenon presented by the Scotch poetical school of
the fifteenth century. That school, as is well known, was a direct offshoot from, or following
of the school of Chaucer, though in Dunbar at least it succeeded in producing work almost,
if not quite, original in form. In the same way, Drummond and Alexander, while able to the
full to experience directly the foreign, and especially Italian influences which had been so
strong on the Elizabethans, were still in the main followers of the Elizabethans themselves,
and formed, as it were, a Scottish moon to the English sun of poetry. There is little or nothing
that is distinctively national about them, though in their following of the English model they
show talent at least equal to all but the best of the school they followed. But this fact,
joined to those above noted, helps, no doubt, to give an air of want of spontaneity to their
verse--an air as of the literary exercise.

There are other writers who might indifferently come in this chapter or in that on Caroline
poetry, for the reign of James was as much overlapped in this respect by his son's as by Elizabeth's,
and there are others who need but slight notice, besides yet others--a great multitude--who
can receive no notice at all. The doggerel of Taylor, the water-poet (not a bad prose writer),
received both patronage and attention, which seem to have annoyed his betters, and he has been
resuscitated even in our own times. Francis Beaumont, the coadjutor of Fletcher, has left independent
poetical work which, on the whole, confirms the general theory that the chief execution of
the joint plays must have been his partner's, but which (as in the Letter to Ben Jonson and
the fine stoicism of The Honest Man's Fortune) contains some very good things. His brother,
Sir John Beaumont, who died not so young as Francis, but at the comparatively early age of
forty-four, was the author of a historical poem on Bosworth Field, as well as of minor pieces
of higher merit, including some remarkable critical observations on English verse. Two famous
poems, which everyone knows by heart, the "You Meaner Beauties of the Night" of Sir Henry Wotton
and the "Tell Me no more how fair She is" of Bishop Henry King, are merely perfect examples
of a style of verse which was largely if not often quite so perfectly practised by lesser or
less known men, as well as by greater ones.[59]

[59] The most interesting collection and selection of verse of this class and time is undoubtedly
Dr. Hannah's well-known and charming but rather oddly entitled Poems of Raleigh, Wotton, and
other Courtly Poets in the Aldine Series. I say oddly entitled, because though Raleigh and
Wotton were certainly courtiers, it would be hard to make the name good of some of the minor
contributors.

There is, moreover, a class of verse which has been referred to incidentally before, and which
may very likely be referred to incidentally again, but which is too abundant, too characteristic,
and too charming not to merit a place, if no very large one, to itself. I refer to the delightful
songs which are scattered all over the plays of the period, from Greene to Shirley. As far
as Shakespere is concerned, these songs are well enough known, and Mr. Palgrave's Treasury,
with Mr. Bullen's and Bell's Songs from the Dramatists, have given an inferior currency, but
still a currency, to the best of the remainder. The earlier we have spoken of. But the songs
of Greene and his fellows, though charming, cannot compare with those of the more properly
Jacobean poets. To name only the best of each, Ben Jonson gives us the exquisite "Queen and
Huntress," which is perhaps the best-known piece of his whole work; the pleasant "If I freely
may discover," and best of all--unsurpassed indeed in any language for rolling majesty of rhythm
and romantic charm of tone--"Drink to me only with thine eyes." Again the songs in Beaumont
and Fletcher stand very high, perhaps highest of all next to Shakespere's in respect of the
"woodnote wild." If the snatch of only half articulate poetry of the "Lay a garland on my hearse,"
of The Maid's Tragedy, is really Fletcher's, he has here equalled Shakespere himself. We may
add to it the fantastic and charming "Beauty clear and fair," of The Elder Brother, the comic
swing of "Let the bells ring," and "The fit's upon me now;" all the songs without exception
in The Faithful Shepherdess, which is much less a drama than a miscellany of the most delightful
poetry; the lively war-song in The Mad Lover, to which Dryden owed not a little; the catch,
"Drink to-day and drown all sorrow;" the strange song of the dead host in The Lover's Progress;
the exquisite "Weep no more," of The Queen of Corinth; the spirited "Let the mill go round,"
of The Maid in the Mill; the "Lovers rejoice," of Cupid's Revenge; the "Roses, their sharp
spines being gone," which is one of the most Shakesperean things of The Two Noble Kinsmen;
the famous "Hence, all you vain-delights," of The Nice Valour, which Milton expanded into Il
Penseroso, and the laughing song of the same play. This long catalogue only contains a part
of the singularly beautiful song work of the great pair of dramatists, and as an example we
may give one of the least known from The Captain:--

    "Tell me, dearest, what is love?
    'Tis a lightning from above;
    'Tis an arrow, 'tis a fire,
    'Tis a boy they call Desire.
            'Tis a grave,
            Gapes to have
    Those poor fools that long to prove.

    "Tell me more, are women true?
    Yes, some are, and some as you.
    Some are willing, some are strange
    Since you men first taught to change.
            And till troth
            Be in both,
    All shall love to love anew.

    "Tell me more yet, can they grieve?
    Yes, and sicken sore, but live,
    And be wise, and delay
    When you men are as wise as they.
            Then I see,
            Faith will be
    Never till they both believe."

The dirge of Vittoria Corombona and the preparation for death of The Duchess of Malfi are Webster's
sole but sufficient contributions to the list. The witch songs of Middleton's Witch, and the
gipsy, or rather tramp, songs of More Dissemblers besides Women and The Spanish Gipsy, have
very high merit. The songs of Patient Grissell, which are pretty certainly Dekker's, have been
noticed already. The otherwise worthless play of The Thracian Wonder, attributed to Webster
and Rowley, contains an unusual number of good songs. Heywood and Massinger were not great
at songs, and the superiority of those in The Sun's Darling over the songs in Ford's other
plays, seems to point to the authorship of Dekker. Finally, James Shirley has the song gift
of his greater predecessors. Every one knows "The glories of our blood and state," but this
is by no means his only good song; it worthily closes the list of the kind--a kind which, when
brought together and perused separately, exhibits, perhaps, as well as anything else of equal
compass, the extraordinary abundance of poetical spirit in the age. For songs like these are
not to be hammered out by the most diligent ingenuity, not to be spun by the light of the most
assiduously fed lamp. The wind of such inspiration blows where, and only where, it listeth.

CHAPTER IX

MILTON, TAYLOR, CLARENDON, BROWNE, HOBBES

During the second and third quarters of the seventeenth century, or (to take literary rather
than chronological dates) between the death of Bacon and the publication of Absalom and Achitophel,
there existed in England a quintet of men of letters, of such extraordinary power and individuality,
that it may be doubted whether any other period of our own literature can show a group equal
to them; while it is certain that no other literature, except, perhaps, in the age of Pericles,
can match them. They were all, except Hobbes (who belonged by birth, though not by date and
character of writing, to an earlier generation than the rest), born, and they all died, within
a very few years of each other. All were prose writers of the very highest merit; and though
only one was a poet, yet he had poetry enough to spare for all the five. Of the others, Clarendon,
in some of the greatest characteristics of the historian, has been equalled by no Englishman,
and surpassed by few foreigners. Jeremy Taylor has been called the most eloquent of men; and
if this is a bold saying, it is scarcely too bold. Hobbes stands with Bacon and Berkeley at
the head of English-speaking philosophers, and is, if not in general grasp, in range of ideas,
or in literary polish, yet in acuteness of thought and originality of expression, perhaps the
superior of both his companions. The excellence of Browne is indeed more purely literary and
intensely artistic first of all--a matter of expression rather than of substance,--while he
is perhaps more flawed than any of them by the fashionable vices of his time. Yet, as an artist,
or rather architect, of words in the composite and florid style, it is vain to look anywhere
for his superior.

John Milton--the greatest, no doubt, of the five, if only because of his mastery of either
harmony--was born in London on 9th December 1608, was educated at Cambridge, studied at home
with unusual intensity and control of his own time and bent; travelled to Italy, returned,
and engaged in the somewhat unexpected task of school-keeping; was stimulated, by the outbreak
of the disturbances between king and parliament, to take part with extraordinary bitterness
in the strife of pamphlets on the republican and anti-prelatical side, defended the execution
of the king in his capacity of Latin secretary to the Government (to which he had been appointed
in 1649); was struck with blindness, lay hid at the Restoration for some time in order to escape
the Royalist vengeance (which does not seem very seriously to have threatened him), composed
and published in 1667 the great poem of Paradise Lost, followed it with that of Paradise Regained,
did not a little other work in prose and poetry, and died on 8th November 1674. He had been
thrice married, and his first wife had left him within a month of her marriage, thereby occasioning
the singular series of pamphlets on divorce, the theories of which, had she not returned, he
had, it is said, intended to put into practice on his own responsibility. The general abstinence
from all but the barest biographical outline which the scale of this book imposes is perhaps
nowhere a greater gain than in the case of Milton. His personal character was, owing to political
motives, long treated with excessive rigour. The reaction to Liberal politics early in the
nineteenth century substituted for this rigour a somewhat excessive admiration, and even now
the balance is hardly restored, as may be seen from the fact that a late biographer of his
stigmatises his first wife, the unfortunate Mary Powell, as "a dull and common girl," without
a tittle of evidence except the bare fact of her difference with her husband, and some innuendoes
(indirect in themselves, and clearly tainted as testimony) in Milton's own divorce tracts.
On the whole, Milton's character was not an amiable one, nor even wholly estimable. It is probable
that he never in the course of his whole life did anything that he considered wrong; but unfortunately,
examples are not far to seek of the facility with which desire can be made to confound itself
with deliberate approval. That he was an exacting, if not a tyrannical husband and father,
that he held in the most peremptory and exaggerated fashion the doctrine of the superiority
of man to woman, that his egotism in a man who had actually accomplished less would be half
ludicrous and half disgusting, that his faculty of appreciation beyond his own immediate tastes
and interests was small, that his intolerance surpassed that of an inquisitor, and that his
controversial habits and manners outdid the license even of that period of controversial abuse,--these
are propositions which I cannot conceive to be disputed by any competent critic aware of the
facts. If they have ever been denied, it is merely from the amiable but uncritical point of
view which blinks all a man's personal defects in consideration of his literary genius. That
we cannot afford to do here, especially as Milton's personal defects had no small influence
on his literary character. But having honestly set down his faults, let us now turn to the
pleasanter side of the subject without fear of having to revert, except cursorily, to the uglier.

The same prejudice and partisanship, however, which have coloured the estimate of Milton's
personal character have a little injured the literary estimate of him. It is agreed on all
hands that Johnson's acute but unjust criticism was directed as much by political and religious
prejudice as by the operation of narrow and mistaken rules of prosody and poetry; and all these
causes worked together to produce that extraordinary verdict on Lycidas, which has been thought
unintelligible. But it would be idle to contend that there is not nearly as much bias on the
other side in the most glowing of his modern panegyrists--Macaulay and Landor. It is, no doubt,
in regard to a champion so formidable, both as ally and as enemy, difficult to write without
fear or favour, but it must be attempted.

Milton's periods of literary production were three. In each of them he produced work of the
highest literary merit, but at the same time singularly different in kind. In the first, covering
the first thirty years of his life, he wrote no prose worth speaking of, but after juvenile
efforts, and besides much Latin poetry of merit, produced the exquisite poems of L'Allegro
and Il Penseroso, the Hymn on the Nativity, the incomparable Lycidas, the Comus (which I have
the audacity to think his greatest work, if scale and merit are considered), and the delicious
fragments of the Arcades. Then his style abruptly changed, and for another twenty years he
devoted himself chiefly to polemical pamphlets, relieved only by a few sonnets, whose strong
originality and intensely personal savour are uniform, while their poetical merit varies greatly.
The third period of fifteen years saw the composition of the great epics of Paradise Lost and
Paradise Regained, and of the tragedy of Samson Agonistes, together with at least the completion
of a good deal of prose, including a curious History of England, wherein Milton expatiates
with a singular gusto over details which he must have known, and indeed allows that he knew,
to be fabulous. The production of each of these periods may be advantageously dealt with separately
and in order.

Milton's Latin compositions both in prose and verse lie rather outside of our scope, though
they afford a very interesting subject. It is perhaps sufficient to say that critics of such
different times, tempers, and attitudes towards their subject as Johnson and the late Rector
of Lincoln,--critics who agree in nothing except literary competence,--are practically at one
as to the remarkable excellence of Milton's Latin verse at its best. It is little read now,
but it is a pity that any one who can read Latin should allow himself to be ignorant of at
least the beautiful Epitaphium Damonis on the poet's friend, Charles Diodati.

The dates of the few but exquisite poems of the first period are known with some but not complete
exactness. Milton was not an extremely precocious poet, and such early exercises as he has
preserved deserve the description of being rather meritorious than remarkable. But in 1629,
his year of discretion, he struck his own note first and firmly with the hymn on the "Nativity."
Two years later the beautiful sonnet on his three-and-twentieth year followed. L'Allegro and
Il Penseroso date not before, but probably not much after, 1632; Comus dating from 1634, and
Lycidas from 1637. All these were written either in the later years at Cambridge, or in the
period of independent study at Horton in Buckinghamshire--chiefly in the latter. Almost every
line and word of these poems has been commented on and fought over, and I cannot undertake
to summarise the criticism of others. Among the greater memorabilia of the subject is that
wonderful Johnsonism, the description of Lycidas as "harsh, the rhymes uncertain, and the numbers
unpleasing;" among the minor, the fact that critics have gravely quarrelled among themselves
over the epithet "monumental" applied to the oak in Il Penseroso, when Spenser's "Builder Oak"
(Milton was a passionate student of Spenser) would have given them the key at once, even if
the same phrase had not occurred, as I believe it does, in Chaucer, also a favourite of Milton's.
We have only space here for first-hand criticism.

This body of work, then, is marked by two qualities: an extraordinary degree of poetic merit,
and a still more extraordinary originality of poetic kind. Although Milton is always Milton,
it would be difficult to find in another writer five poems, or (taking the Allegro and its
companion together) four, so different from each other and yet of such high merit. And it would
be still more difficult to find poems so independent in their excellence. Neither the influence
of Jonson nor the influence of Donne--the two poetical influences in the air at the time, and
the latter especially strong at Cambridge--produced even the faintest effect on Milton. We
know from his own words, and should have known even if he had not mentioned it, that Shakespere
and Spenser were his favourite studies in English; yet, save in mere scattered phrases none
of these poems owes anything to either. He has teachers but no models; masters, but only in
the way of learning how to do, not what to do. The "certain vital marks," of which he somewhat
arrogantly speaks, are indeed there. I do not myself see them least in the poem on the "Nativity,"
which has been the least general favourite. It shows youth in a certain inequality, in a slight
overdose of ornament, and especially in a very inartistic conclusion. But nowhere even in Milton
does the mastery of harmonies appear better than in the exquisite rhythmical arrangement of
the piece, in the almost unearthly beauty of the exordium, and in the famous stanzas beginning
"The oracles are dumb." It must be remembered that at this time English lyric was in a very
rudimentary and ill-organised condition. The exquisite snatches in the dramatists had been
snatches merely; Spenser and his followers had chiefly confined themselves to elaborate stanzas
of full length lines, and elsewhere the octo-syllabic couplet, or the quatrain, or the dangerous
"eights and sixes," had been chiefly affected. The sestines and canzons and madrigals of the
sonneteers, for all the beauty of their occasional flashes, have nothing like the gracious
and sustained majesty of the "Nativity" piece. For technical perfection in lyric metre, that
is not so much to be sung as said, this ode has no precedent rival. As for L'Allegro and Il
Penseroso, who shall praise them fitly? They are among the few things about which there is
no difference of opinion, which are as delightful to childhood as to criticism, to youth as
to age. To dwell on their technical excellences (the chief of which is the unerring precision
with which the catalectic and acatalectic lines are arranged and interchanged) has a certain
air of impertinence about it. Even a critical King Alfonso El Sabio could hardly think it possible
that Milton might have taken a hint here, although some persons have, it seems, been disturbed
because skylarks do not come to the window, just as others are troubled because the flowers
in Lycidas do not grow at the same time, and because they think they could see stars through
the "star-proof" trees of the Arcades.

The fragments of the masque just mentioned consist only of three songs and an address in rhymed
couplets. Of the songs, those ending--

      Such a rural queen,
    All Arcadia hath not seen,

are equal to anything that Milton has done; the first song and the address, especially the
latter, do not fall far below them. But it is in Comus that, if I have any skill of criticism,
Milton's poetical power is at its greatest height. Those who judge poetry on the ground of
bulk, or of originality of theme, or of anything else extra-poetical,--much more those (the
greater number) who simply vary transmitted ideas,--may be scandalised at this assertion, but
that will hardly matter much. And indeed the indebtedness of Comus in point of subject (it
is probably limited to the Odyssey, which is public property, and to George Peele's Old Wives'
Tale, which gave little but a few hints of story) is scarcely greater than that of Paradise
Lost; while the form of the drama, a kind nearly as venerable and majestic as that of the epic,
is completely filled. And in Comus there is none of the stiffness, none of the longueurs, none
of the almost ludicrous want of humour, which mar the larger poem. Humour indeed was what Milton
always lacked; had he had it, Shakespere himself might hardly have been greater. The plan is
not really more artificial than that of the epic; though in the latter case it is masked to
us by the scale, by the grandeur of the personages, and by the familiarity of the images to
all men who have been brought up on the Bible. The versification, as even Johnson saw, is the
versification of Paradise Lost, and to my fancy at any rate it has a spring, a variety, a sweep
and rush of genius, which are but rarely present later. As for its beauty in parts, quis vituperavit?
It is impossible to single out passages, for the whole is golden. The entering address of Comus,
the song "Sweet Echo," the descriptive speech of the Spirit, and the magnificent eulogy of
the "sun-clad power of chastity," would be the most beautiful things where all is beautiful,
if the unapproachable "Sabrina fair" did not come later, and were not sustained before and
after, for nearly two hundred lines of pure nectar. If poetry could be taught by the reading
of it, then indeed the critic's advice to a poet might be limited to this: "Give your days
and nights to the reading of Comus."

The sole excuses for Johnson's amazing verdict on Lycidas are that it is not quite so uniformly
good, and that in his strictures on its "rhyme" and "numbers" he was evidently speaking from
the point of view at which the regular couplet is regarded as the ne plus ultra of poetry.
There are indeed blotches in it. The speech of Peter, magnificently as it is introduced, and
strangely as it has captivated some critics, who seem to think that anything attacking the
Church of England must be poetry, is out of place, and in itself is obscure, pedantic, and
grotesque. There is some over-classicism, and the scale of the piece does not admit the display
of quite such sustained and varied power as in Comus. But what there is, is so exquisite that
hardly can we find fault with Mr. Pattison's hyperbole when he called Lycidas the "high-water
mark of English poetry." High-water mark even in the physical world is a variable limit. Shakespere
constantly, and some other poets here and there in short passages go beyond Milton. But in
the same space we shall nowhere find anything that can outgo the passage beginning "Alas what
boots it," down to "head of thine," and the whole conclusion from "Return Alpheus." For melody
of versification, for richness of images, for curious felicity of expression, these cannot
be surpassed.

"But O the heavy change"--to use an irresistible quotation, the more irresistible that the
change is foreshadowed in Lycidas itself--from the golden poetry of these early days to the
prose of the pamphlets. It is not that Milton's literary faculty is less conspicuous here,
or less interesting. There is no English prose before him, none save Taylor's and Browne's
in his time, and absolutely none after him that can compare with the finest passages of these
singular productions. The often quoted personal descriptions of his aims in life, his early
literary studies, his views of poetry and so forth, are almost equal in the "other harmony
of prose" to Comus and Lycidas. The deservedly famous Areopagitica is full of the most splendid
concerted pieces of prose-music, and hardly anywhere from the Tractate of Reformation Touching
Church Discipline to the History of Britain, which he revised just before his death, is it
possible to read a page without coming across phrases, passages, and even whole paragraphs,
which are instinct with the most splendid life. But the difference between Milton's poetry
and his prose is, that in verse he is constantly under the restraint (sometimes, in his later
work especially, too much under the restraint) of the sense of style; while in his prose he
seems to be wholly emancipated from it. Even in his finest passages he never seems to know
or to care how a period is going to end. He piles clause on clause, links conjunction to conjunction,
regardless of breath, or sense, or the most ordinary laws of grammar. The second sentence of
his first prose work contains about four hundred words, and is broken in the course of them
like a wounded snake. In his very highest flights he will suddenly drop to grotesque and bathos;
and there is no more difficult task (haud inexpertus loquor) than the selection from Milton
of any passage of length which shall not contain faults of which a modern schoolboy or gutter-journalist
would be ashamed. Nor is the matter made much better by the consideration that it is not so
much ignorance as temper which is the cause of this deformity. Lest it be thought that I speak
harshly, let me quote from the late Mr. Mark Pattison, a strong sympathiser with Milton's politics,
in complete agreement if not with his religious views, yet with his attitude towards dominant
ecclesiasticism, and almost an idolater of him from the purely literary point of view. In "Eikonoclastes,"
Milton's reply to Eikon Basilike, Mr. Pattison says, and I do not care to attempt any improvement
on the words, "Milton is worse than tedious: his reply is in a tone of rude railing and insolent
swagger which would have been always unbecoming, but which at this moment was grossly indecent."
Elsewhere (and again I have nothing to add) Mr. Pattison describes Milton's prose pamphlets
as "a plunge into the depths of vulgar scurrility and libel below the level of average gentility
and education." But the Rector of Lincoln has not touched, or has touched very lightly, on
the fault above noted, the profound lack of humour that these pamphlets display. Others have
been as scurrilous, as libellous, as unfair; others have prostituted literary genius to the
composition of paid lampoons; but some at least of them have been saved by the all-saving sense
of humour. As any one who remembers the dreadful passage about the guns in Paradise Lost must
know, the book of humour was to Milton a sealed book. He has flashes of wit, though not many;
his indignation of itself sometimes makes him really sarcastic. But humorous he is never.

Destitute of this, the one saving grace of polemical literature, he plunged at the age of thirty-three
into pamphlet writing. With a few exceptions his production in this kind may be thrown into
four classes,--the Areopagitica and the Letter to Hartlib (much the best of the whole) standing
outside. The first class attacks prelatical government, and by degrees glides, under the guise
of apologetics for the famous Smectymnuus, into a fierce and indecent controversy with Bishop
Hall, containing some of the worst examples of the author's deplorable inability to be jocular.
Then comes the divorce series, which, with all its varied learning, is chiefly comic, owing
to Milton's unfortunate blindness to the fact that he was trying to make a public question
out of private grievances of the particular kind which most of all demand silence. Next rank
the pieces composing the Apologia of regicide, the Eikonoclastes, the controversy with Salmasius
(written in Latin), and the postscript thereto, devoted to the obscure Morus. And lastly come
the pamphlets in which, with singular want of understanding of the course of events, Milton
tried to argue Monk and the weary nation out of the purpose to shake off the heavy yoke of
so-called liberty. The History of Britain, the very agreeable fragment on the History of Muscovy,
the late Treatise Against Popery, in which the author holds out a kind of olive branch to the
Church of England, in the very act of proclaiming his Arianism, and the two little masterpieces
already referred to, are independent of any such classification. Yet even in them sometimes,
as always in the others, furor arma ministrat; and supplies them as badly as if he were supplying
by contract.

Nevertheless both Milton's faults and his merits as a prose writer are of the most remarkable
and interesting character. The former consist chiefly in the reckless haste with which he constructs
(or rather altogether neglects the construction of) his periods and sentences, in an occasional
confusion of those rules of Latin syntax which are only applicable to a fully inflected language
with the rules necessary in a language so destitute of inflections as English, and in a lavish
and sometimes both needless and tasteless adaptation of Latin words. All these were faults
of the time, but it is true that they are faults which Milton, like his contemporaries Taylor
and Browne, aggravated almost wilfully. Of the three Milton, owing no doubt to the fury which
animated him, is by far the most faulty and uncritical. Taylor is the least remarkable of the
three for classicisms either of syntax or vocabulary; and Browne's excesses in this respect
are deliberate. Milton's are the effect of blind passion. Yet the passages which diversify
and relieve his prose works are far more beautiful in their kind than anything to be found
elsewhere in English prose. Though he never trespasses into purely poetical rhythm, the solemn
music of his own best verse is paralleled in these; and the rugged and grandiose vocabulary
(it is particularly characteristic of Milton that he mixes the extremest vernacular with the
most exquisite and scholarly phrasing) is fused and moulded with an altogether extraordinary
power. Nor can we notice less the abundance of striking phrase, now quaint, now grand, now
forcible, which in short clauses and "jewels five words long" occurs constantly, even in the
passages least artistically finished as wholes. There is no English prose author whose prose
is so constantly racy with such a distinct and varied savour as Milton's. It is hardly possible
to open him anywhere after the fashion of the Sortes Virgilianæ without lighting on a line
or a couple of lines, which for the special purpose it is impossible to improve. And it might
be contended with some plausibility that this abundance of jewels, or purple patches, brings
into rather unfair prominence the slips of grammar and taste, the inequalities of thought,
the deplorable attempts to be funny, the rude outbursts of bargee invective, which also occur
so numerously. One other peculiarity, or rather one result of these peculiarities, remains
to be noticed; and that is that Milton's prose is essentially inimitable. It would be difficult
even to caricature or to parody it; and to imitate it as his verse, at least his later verse,
has been so often imitated, is simply impossible.

The third and, in popular estimation, the most important period of Milton's production was
again poetical. The characteristics of the poetry of the three great works which illustrate
it are admittedly uniform, though in Samson Agonistes they exhibit themselves in a harder,
drier, more ossified form than in the two great epics. This relation is only a repetition of
the relation between Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained themselves on the one hand, and the
poems of twenty years earlier, especially Comus and Lycidas, on the other. The wonderful Miltonic
style, so artificial and yet such a triumph of art, is evident even so early as the ode on
the "Nativity," and it merely developed its own characteristics up to the Samson of forty years
later. That it is a real style and not merely a trick, like so many others, is best shown by
the fact that it is very hard, if not impossible, to analyse it finally into elements. The
common opinion charges Milton with Latinising heavily; and so he does. But we open Paradise
Lost at random, and we find a dozen lines, and not the least beautiful (the Third Day of Creation),
without a word in them that is not perfectly simple English, or if of Latin origin, naturalised
long before Milton's time, while the syntax is also quite vernacular. Again it is commonly
thought that the habits of antithesis and parallelism, of omission of articles, of reversing
the position of adjectives and adverbs, are specially Miltonic. Certainly Milton often indulges
in them; yet in the same way the most random dipping will find passages (and any number of
them) where no one of these habits is particularly or eminently present, and yet which every
one would recognise as Miltonic. As far as it is possible to put the finger on one peculiarity
which explains part of the secret of Milton's pre-eminence, I should myself select his unapproached
care and felicity in building what may be called the verse-paragraph. The dangers of blank
verse (Milton's preference for which over rhyme was only one of his numerous will-worships)
are many; but the two greatest lie in easily understood directions. With the sense generally
or frequently ending as the line ends (as may be seen in the early dramatists and in many bad
poets since), it becomes intolerably stiff and monotonous. With the process of enjambement
or overlapping, promiscuously and unskilfully indulged (the commonest fault during the last
two centuries), it is apt to degenerate into a kind of metrical and barely metrical prose,
distinguished from prose proper by less variety of cadence, and by an occasional awkward sacrifice
of sense and natural arrangement to the restrictions which the writer accepts, but by which
he knows not how to profit. Milton has avoided both these dangers by adhering to what I have
ventured to call the verse-paragraph--that is to say, by arranging the divisions of his sense
in divisions of verse, which, albeit identical and not different in their verse integers, are
constructed with as much internal concerted variety as the stanzas or strophes of a so-called
Pindaric ode. Of the apparently uniform and monotonous blank verse he has made an instrument
of almost protean variety by availing himself of the infinite permutations of cadence, syllabic
sound, variety of feet, and adjustment of sense to verse. The result is that he has, it may
almost be said, made for himself out of simple blank verse all the conveniences of the line,
the couplet, and the stanza, punctuating and dividing by cadence, not rhyme. No device that
is possible within his limits--even to that most dangerous one of the pause after the first
syllable of a line which has "enjambed" from the previous one--is strange to him, or sparingly
used by him, or used without success. And it is only necessary to contrast his verse with the
blank verse of the next century, especially in its two chief examples, Thomson and Young,--great
verse-smiths both of them,--to observe his superiority in art. These two, especially Thomson,
try the verse-paragraph system, but they do it ostentatiously and clumsily. Thomson's trick
of ending such paragraphs with such lines as "And Thule bellows through her utmost isles,"
often repeated with only verbal substitutions, is apt to make the reader think with a smile
of the breath of relief which a man draws after a serious effort. "Thank heaven that paragraph's
done!" the poet seems to be saying. Nothing of the kind is ever to be found in Milton. It is
only on examination that the completeness of these divisions is perceived. They are linked
one to another with the same incomparably artful concealment of art which links their several
and internal clauses. And thus it is that Milton is able to carry his readers through (taking
both poems together) sixteen books of epic, without much narrative interest, with foregone
conclusions, with long passages which are merely versifications of well-known themes, and with
others which the most favourable critics admit to be, if not exactly dull, yet certainly not
lively. Something the same may be said of Samson, though here a decided stiffening and mannerising
of the verse is to some extent compensated by the pathetic and human interest of the story.
It is to be observed, however, that Milton has here abused the redundant syllable (the chief
purely poetical mistake of which he has been guilty in any part of his work, and which is partly
noticeable in Comus), and that his choric odes are but dry sticks in comparison with Lycidas.

It may be thought strange that I should say little or nothing of the subject of these immortal
poems. But, in the first place, those critics of poetry who tell us that "all depends on the
subject" seem to forget that, according to this singular dictum, there is no difference between
poetry and prose--between an epic and a blue-book. I prefer--having been brought up at the
feet of Logic--to stick to the genus and differentia of poetry, and not to its accidents. Moreover,
the matter of Paradise Lost and its sequel is so universally known that it becomes unnecessary,
and has been so much discussed that it seems superfluous, to rediscuss it. The inquiries into
Milton's indebtedness to forerunners strike me as among the idlest inquiries of the kind--which
is saying a great deal. Italians, Frenchmen, Dutchmen, Englishmen even, had doubtless treated
the Creation and the Fall, Adam and Satan, before him. Perhaps he read them; perhaps he borrowed
from them. What then? Does any one believe that Andreini or Vondel, Sylvester or Du Bartas,
could have written, or did in any measurable degree contribute to the writing of Paradise Lost?
If he does he must be left to his opinion.

Reference may perhaps be made to some remarks in Chapter IV. on the comparative position of
Milton in English poetry with the only two writers who can be compared to him, if bulk and
majesty of work be taken into consideration, and not merely occasional bursts of poetry. Of
his own poetical powers I trust that I shall not be considered a niggard admirer, because,
both in the character of its subject (if we are to consider subjects at all) and in its employment
of rhyme, that greatest mechanical aid of the poet, The Faërie Queene seems to me greater,
or because Milton's own earlier work seems to me to rank higher than Paradise Lost. The general
opinion is, of course, different; and one critic of no mean repute, Christopher North, has
argued that Paradise Lost is the only "great poem" in existence. That question need not be
argued here. It is sufficient to say that Milton is undoubtedly one of the few great poets
in the history of the world, and that if he falls short of Homer, Dante, and Shakespere, it
is chiefly because he expresses less of that humanity, both universal and quintessential, which
they, and especially the last, put into verse. Narrowness is his fault. But the intense individuality
which often accompanies narrowness is his great virtue--a virtue which no poet, which no writer
either in verse or prose, has ever had in greater measure than he, and which hardly any has
been able to express with more varied and exquisite harmony.

Jeremy Taylor, the ornament and glory of the English pulpit, was born at Cambridge in 1613.
He was the son of a barber, but was well educated, and was able to enter Caius College as a
sizar at thirteen. He spent seven years there, and took both degrees and orders at an unusually
early age. Apparently, however, no solid endowment was offered him in his own university, and
he owed such preferment as he had (it was never very great) to a chance opportunity of preaching
at St. Paul's and a recommendation to Laud. That prelate--to whom all the infinite malignity
of political and sectarian detraction has not been able to deny the title of an encourager,
as few men have encouraged them, of learning and piety--took Taylor under his protection, made
him his chaplain, and procured him incorporation at Oxford, a fellowship at All Souls, and
finally the rectory of Uppingham. To this Taylor was appointed in 1638, and next year he married
a lady who bore him several sons, but died young. Taylor early joined the king at Oxford, and
is supposed to have followed his fortunes in the field; it is certain that his rectory, lying
in a Puritan district, was very soon sequestrated, though not by any form of law. What took
him into Wales and caused him to marry his second wife, Joanna Brydges (an heiress on a small
scale, and said to have been a natural daughter of Charles I.), is not known. But he sojourned
in the principality during the greater part of the Commonwealth period, and was much patronised
by the Earl of Carbery, who, while resident at Golden Grove, made him his chaplain. He also
made the acquaintance of other persons of interest, the chief of whom were, in London (which
he visited not always of his own choice, for he was more than once imprisoned), John Evelyn,
and in Wales, Mrs. Katherine Philips, "the matchless Orinda," to whom he dedicated one of the
most interesting of his minor works, the Measure and Offices of Friendship. Not long before
the Restoration he was offered, and strongly pressed to accept, the post of lecturer at Lisburn,
in Ireland. He does not seem to have taken at all kindly to the notion, but was over-persuaded,
and crossed the Channel. It was perhaps owing to this false step that, when the Restoration
arrived, the preferment which he had in so many ways merited only came to him in the tents
of Kedar. He was made Bishop of Down and Connor, held that see for seven years, and died (after
much wrestling with Ulster Presbyterians and some domestic misfortune) of fever in 1667.

His work is voluminous and always interesting; but only a small part of it concerns us directly
here, as exhibiting him at his best and most peculiar in the management of English prose. He
wrote, it should be said, a few verses by no means destitute of merit, but they are so few,
in comparison to the bulk of his work, that they may be neglected. Taylor's strong point was
not accuracy of statement or logical precision. His longest work, the Ductor Dubitantium, an
elaborate manual of casuistry, is constantly marred by the author's inability to fix on a single
point, and to keep his argumentation close to that. In another, the Unum Necessarium, or Discourse
on Repentance, his looseness of statement and want of care in driving several horses at once,
involved him in a charge of Pelagianism, or something like it, which he wrote much to disprove,
but which has so far lasted as to justify modern theologians in regarding his ideas on this
and other theological points as, to say the least, confused. All over his work inexact quotation
from memory, illicit argumentation, and an abiding inconsistency, mar the intellectual value,
affecting not least his famous Liberty of Prophesying, or plea for toleration against the new
Presbyterian uniformity,--the conformity of which treatise with modern ideas has perhaps made
some persons slow to recognise its faults. These shortcomings, however, are not more constant
in Taylor's work than his genuine piety, his fervent charity, his freedom from personal arrogance
and pretentiousness, and his ardent love for souls; while neither shortcomings nor virtues
of this kind concern us here so much as the extraordinary rhetorical merits which distinguish
all his work more or less, and which are chiefly noticeable in his Sermons, especially the
Golden Grove course, and the funeral sermon on Lady Carbery, in his Contemplations of the State
of Man, and in parts of his Life of Christ, and of the universally popular and admirable tractates
on Holy Living and Holy Dying.

Jeremy Taylor's style is emphatically and before all things florid and ornate. It is not so
elaborately quaint as Browne's; it is not so stiffly splendid as Milton's; it is distinguished
from both by a much less admixture of Latinisms; but it is impossible to call it either verbally
chastened or syntactically correct. Coleridge--an authority always to be differed with cautiously
and under protest--holds indeed a different opinion. He will have it that Browne was the corruptor,
though a corruptor of the greatest genius, in point of vocabulary, and that, as far as syntax
is concerned, in Jeremy Taylor the sentences are often extremely long, and yet are generally
so perspicuous in consequence of their logical structure that they require no reperusal to
be understood. And he will have the same to be true not only of Hooker (which may pass), but
of Milton, in reference to whom admirers not less strong than Coleridge hold that he sometimes
forgets the period altogether.

It must be remembered that Coleridge in these remarks was fighting the battle of the recoverers
of our great seventeenth century writers against the devotees of "correctness," and that in
the very same context he makes the unpardonable assertion that Gibbon's manner is "the worst
of all," and that Tacitus "writes in falsetto as compared to Tully." This is to "fight a prize"
in the old phrase, not to judge from the catholic and universal standpoint of impartial criticism;
and in order to reduce Coleridge's assertions to that standard we must abate nearly as much
from his praise of Taylor as from his abuse of Gibbon--an abuse, by the way, which is strangely
contrasted with praise of "Junius." It is not true that, except by great complaisance of the
reader, Jeremy Taylor's long sentences are at once understandable. They may, of course, and
generally can be understood kata to semaino menon, as a telegram with half the words left out
may at the other end of the scale be understood. But they constantly withstand even a generous
parser, even one who is to the fullest extent ready to allow for idiom and individuality. They
abuse in particular the conjunction to a most enormous extent--coupling by its means propositions
which have no logical connection, which start entirely different trains of thought, and which
are only united because carelessness and fashion combined made it unnecessary for the writer
to take the little extra trouble necessary for their separation. Taylor will, in the very middle
of his finest passages, and with hardly so much as a comma's break, change oratio obliqua to
oratio recta, interrupt the sequence of tenses, make his verbs agree with the nearest noun,
irrespective of the connection, and in short, though he was, while in Wales, a schoolmaster
for some time, and author of a grammatical treatise, will break Priscian's head with the calmest
unconcern. It is quite true that these faults mainly occur in his more rhetorical passages,
in his exercises rather of spoken than of written prose. But that, as any critic who is not
an advocate must see, is no palliation. The real palliation is that the time had not yet aroused
itself to the consciousness of the fact that letting English grammar at one moment go to the
winds altogether, and at the next subjecting it to the most inappropriate rules and licenses
of Latin, was not the way to secure the establishment of an accomplished and generally useful
English prose. No stranger instance of prejudice can be given than that Coleridge, on the point
of asking, and justly, from Dryden "a stricter grammar," should exalt to the skies a writer
compared to whom Dryden is grammatically impeccable.

But a recognition of the fact that Taylor distinctly belongs to the antinomians of English
prose, or at least to those guiltless heathens who lived before the laws of it had been asserted,
can not in any competent critic dull the sense of the wonderful beauty of his style. It has
been said that this beauty is entirely of the florid and ornate order, lending itself in this
way easily enough to the witty and well-worded, though unjust and ungenerous censure which
South pronounced on it after the author's death. It may or may not be that the phrases there
censured, "The fringes of the north star," and "The dew of angels' wings," and "Thus have I
seen a cloud rolling in its airy mansion," are not of that "apostolic plainness" that a Christian
minister's speech should have. But they and their likes are extremely beautiful--save that
in literature no less than in theology South has justly perstringed Taylor's constant and most
unworthy affectation of introducing a simile by "so I have seen." In the next age the phrase
was tediously abused, and in the age after, and ever since, it became and has remained mere
burlesque; but it was never good; and in the two fine specimen passages which follow it is
a distinct blot:--

     The Prayers of Anger and of Lust.

     "Prayer is the peace of our spirit, the stillness of our
     thoughts, the evenness of recollection, the seat of meditation,
     the rest of our cares, and the calm of our tempest. Prayer is the
     issue of a quiet mind, of untroubled thoughts; it is the daughter
     of charity and the sister of meekness; and he that prays to God
     with an angry--that is a troubled and discomposed--spirit, is
     like him that retires into a battle to meditate and sets up his
     closet in the outquarters of an army, and chooses a frontier
     garrison to be wise in. Anger is a perfect alienation of the mind
     from prayer, and therefore is contrary to that attention which
     presents our prayers in a right line to God.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "For so an impure vapour--begotten of the slime of the earth by
     the fevers and adulterous heats of an intemperate summer sun,
     striving by the ladder of a mountain to climb to heaven and
     rolling into various figures by an uneasy, unfixed revolution,
     and stopped at the middle region of the air, being thrown from
     his pride and attempt of passing towards the seat of the
     stars--turns into an unwholesome flame and, like the breath of
     hell, is confined into a prison of darkness and a cloud, till it
     breaks into diseases, plagues and mildews, stinks and blastings.
     So is the prayer of an unchaste person. It strives to climb the
     battlements of heaven, but because it is a flame of sulphur salt
     and bitumen, and was kindled in the dishonourable regions below,
     derived from Hell and contrary to God, it cannot pass forth to
     the element of love; but ends in barrenness and murmurs,
     fantastic expectations and trifling imaginative confidences; and
     they at last end in sorrows and despair."

Indeed, like all very florid writers, Taylor is liable to eclipses of taste; yet both the wording
of his flights and the occasion of them (they are to be found passim in the Sermons) are almost
wholly admirable. It is always a great and universal idea--never a mere conceit--that fires
him. The shortness and dangers of life, the weakness of children, the fragility of women's
beauty and men's strength, the change of the seasons, the vicissitudes of empires, the impossibility
of satisfying desire, the disgust which follows satiety--these are, if any one chooses, commonplace
enough; yet it is the observation of all who have carefully studied literature, and the experience
of all who have observed their own thoughts, that it is always in relation to these commonplaces
that the most beautiful expressions and the noblest sentiments arise. The uncommon thought
is too likely if not too certain to be an uncommon conceit, and if not worthless, yet of inferior
worth. Among prose writers Taylor is unequalled for his touches of this universal material,
for the genius with which he makes the common uncommon. For instance, he has the supreme faculty
of always making the verbal and the intellectual presentation of the thought alike beautiful,
of appealing to the ear and the mind at the same time, of never depriving the apple of gold
of its picture of silver. Yet for all this the charge of over-elaboration which may justly
be brought against Browne very rarely hits Taylor. He seldom or never has the appearance which
ornate writers of all times, and of his own more especially, so often have, of going back on
a thought or a phrase to try to better it--of being stimulated by actual or fancied applause
to cap the climax. His most beautiful passages come quite suddenly and naturally as the subject
requires and as the thought strikes light in his mind. Nor are they ever, as Milton's so often
are, marred by a descent as rapid as their rise. He is never below a certain decent level;
he may return to earth from heaven, but he goes no lower, and reaches even his lower level
by a quiet and equable sinking. As has been fully allowed, he has grave defects, the defects
of his time. But from some of these he was conspicuously free, and on the whole no one in English
prose (unless it be his successor here) has so much command of the enchanter's wand as Jeremy
Taylor.

Sir Thomas Browne was born in the heart of London in 1605, his father (of whom little is known
except one or two anecdotes corresponding with the character of the son) having been a merchant
of some property, and claiming descent from a good family in Cheshire. This father died when
he was quite young, and Browne is said to have been cheated by his guardians; but he was evidently
at all times of his life in easy circumstances, and seems to have had no complaint to make
of his stepfather, Sir Thomas Dutton. This stepfather may at least possibly have been the hero
of the duel with Sir Hatton Cheeke, which Mr. Carlyle has made famous. With him Browne visited
Ireland, having previously been brought up at Winchester and at Broadgates Hall, which became,
during his own residence, Pembroke College, at Oxford. Later he made the usual grand tour.
Then he took medical degrees; practised it is said, though on no very precise evidence, both
in Oxfordshire and Yorkshire; settled, why is not known, at Norwich; married in 1641 Dorothy
Mileham, a lady of good family in his adopted county; was a steady Royalist through the troubles;
acquired a great name for medical and scientific knowledge, though he was not a Fellow of the
Royal Society; was knighted by Charles II. in 1662, and died in 1682. His first literary appearance
had been made forty years earlier in a way very common in French literary history, but so uncommon
in English as to have drawn from Johnson a rather unwontedly illiberal sneer. At a time unknown,
but by his own account before his thirtieth year (therefore before 1635), Browne had written
the Religio Medici. It was, according to the habit of the time, copied and handed about in
MS. (there exist now five MS. copies showing remarkable differences with each other and the
printed copies), and in 1642 it got into print. A copy was sent by Lord Dorset to the famous
Sir Kenelm Digby, then under confinement for his opinions, and the husband of Venetia wrote
certain not very forcible and not wholly complimentary remarks which, as Browne was informed,
were at once put to press. A correspondence ensued, and Browne published an authorised copy,
in which perhaps a little "economy" might be noticed. The book made an extraordinary impression,
and was widely translated and commented on in foreign languages, though its vogue was purely
due to its intrinsic merits, and not at all to the circumstances which enabled Milton (rather
arrogantly and not with absolute truth) to boast that "Europe rang from side to side" with
his defence of the execution of Charles I. Four years later, in 1646, Browne published his
largest and in every sense most popular book, the Pseudodoxia Epidemica or Enquiry into Vulgar
Errors. Twelve more years passed before the greatest, from a literary point of view, of his
works, the Hydriotaphia or Urn-Burial,--a magnificent descant on the vanity of human life,
based on the discovery of certain cinerary urns in Norfolk,--appeared, in company with the
quaint Garden of Cyrus, a half-learned, half-fanciful discussion of the mysteries of the quincunx
and the number five. Nor did he publish anything more himself; but two collections of posthumous
works were issued after his death, the most important item of which is the Christian Morals,
and the total has been swelled since by extracts from his MSS., which at the death of his grandson
and namesake in 1710 were sold by auction. Most fortunately they were nearly all bought by
Sir Hans Sloane, and are to this day in the British Museum. Browne's good luck in this respect
was completed by the devotion of his editor, Simon Wilkin, a Norwich bookseller of gentle blood
and good education, who produced (1835) after twelve years' labour of love what Southey has
justly called the best edited book in the English language. Not to mention other editions,
the Religio Medici, which exhibits, owing to its history, an unusual variation of text, has
been, together with the Christian Morals, separately edited with great minuteness by Dr. Greenhill.
Nor is it unimportant to notice that Johnson, during his period of literary hack-work, also
edited Sir Thomas Browne, and wrote what Wilkin's good taste has permitted to be still the
standard text of his Life.

The work of this country doctor is, for personal savour, for strangeness, and for delight,
one of the most notable things in English literature. It is not of extraordinary voluminousness,
for though swollen in Wilkin's edition by abundant editorial matter, it fills but three of
the well-known volumes of Bohn's series, and, printed by itself, it might not much exceed two
ordinary library octavos; but in character and interest it yields to the work of no other English
prose writer. It may be divided, from our point of view, into two unequal parts, the smaller
of which is in truth of the greater interest. The Vulgar Errors, those of the smaller tracts
which deal with subjects of natural history (as most of them do), many of the commonplace book
entries, the greater part of the Garden of Cyrus, and most of the Letters, are mainly distinguished
by an interest of matter constantly increased, it is true, by the display of the author's racy
personality, and diversified here and there by passages also displaying his style to the full,
but in general character not differing from the works of other curious writers in the delightful
period which passed between the childish credulity of mediæval and classical physics and the
arid analysis of the modern "scientist." Sir Thomas Browne was of a certain natural scepticism
of temperament (a scepticism which, as displayed in relation to other matters in the Religio
Medici, very unjustly brought upon him the reproach of religious unorthodoxy); he was a trained
and indefatigable observer of facts, and he was by no means prepared to receive authority as
final in any extra-religious matters. But he had a thoroughly literary, not to say poetical
idiosyncrasy; he was both by nature and education disposed to seek for something more than
that physical explanation which, as the greatest of all anti-supernatural philosophers has
observed, merely pushes ignorance a little farther back; and he was possessed of an extraordinary
fertility of imagination which made comment, analogy, and amplification both easy and delightful
to him. He was, therefore, much more disposed--except in the face of absolutely conclusive
evidence--to rationalise than to deny a vulgar error, to bring explanations and saving clauses
to its aid, than to cut it adrift utterly. In this part of his work his distinguishing graces
and peculiarities of style appear but sparingly and not eminently. In the other division, consisting
of the Religio Medici, the Urn-Burial, the Christian Morals, and the Letter to a Friend, his
strictly literary peculiarities, as being less hampered by the exposition of matter, have freer
scope; and it must be recollected that these literary peculiarities, independently of their
own interest, have been a main influence in determining the style of two of the most remarkable
writers of English prose in the two centuries immediately succeeding Browne. It has been said
that Johnson edited him somewhat early; and all the best authorities are in accord that the
Johnsonian Latinisms, differently managed as they are, are in all probability due more to the
following--if only to the unconscious following--of Browne than to anything else. The second
instance is more indubitable still and more happy. It detracts nothing from the unique charm
of "Elia," and it will be most clearly recognised by those who know "Elia" best, that Lamb
constantly borrows from Browne, that the mould and shape of his most characteristic phrases
is frequently suggested directly by Sir Thomas, and that though there seldom can have been
a follower who put more of his own in his following, it may be pronounced with confidence,
"no Browne, no Lamb," at least in the forms in which we know the author of "Elia" best, and
in which all those who know him best, though they may love him always, love him most. Yet Browne
is not a very easy author to "sample." A few splendid sustained passages, like the famous one
in the Urn-Burial, are universally known, but he is best in flashes. The following, from the
Christian Morals, is characteristic enough:--

     "Punish not thyself with pleasure; glut not thy sense with
     palative delights; nor revenge the contempt of temperance by the
     penalty of satiety. Were there an age of delight or any pleasure
     durable, who would not honour Volupia? but the race of delight is
     short, and pleasures have mutable faces. The pleasures of one age
     are not pleasures in another, and their lives fall short of our
     own. Even in our sensual days the strength of delight is in its
     seldomness or rarity, and sting in its satiety; mediocrity is its
     life, and immoderacy its confusion. The luxurious emperors of old
     inconsiderately satiated themselves with the dainties of sea and
     land till, wearied through all varieties, their refections became
     a study with them, and they were fain to feed by invention:
     novices in true epicurism! which by mediocrity, paucity, quick
     and healthful appetite, makes delights smartly acceptable;
     whereby Epicurus himself found Jupiter's brain in a piece of
     Cytheridian cheese, and the tongues of nightingales in a dish of
     onions. Hereby healthful and temperate poverty hath the start of
     nauseating luxury; unto whose clear and naked appetite every meal
     is a feast, and in one single dish the first course of Metellus;
     who are cheaply hungry, and never lose their hunger, or advantage
     of a craving appetite, because obvious food contents it; while
     Nero, half famish'd, could not feed upon a piece of bread, and,
     lingering after his snowed water, hardly got down an ordinary cup
     of Calda. By such circumscriptions of pleasure the contemned
     philosophers reserved unto themselves the secret of delight,
     which the Helluos of those days lost in their exorbitances. In
     vain we study delight; it is at the command of every sober mind,
     and in every sense born with us; but Nature, who teacheth us the
     rule of pleasure, instructeth also in the bounds thereof and
     where its line expireth. And therefore temperate minds, not
     pressing their pleasures until the sting appeareth, enjoy their
     contentations contentedly and without regret, and so escape the
     folly of excess, to be pleased unto displacency."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Bring candid eyes unto the perusal of men's works, and let not
     Zoilism or detraction blast well-intended labours. He that
     endureth no faults in men's writings must only read his own,
     wherein for the most part all appeareth white. What if Plautus,
     in the account of Hercules, mistaketh nativity for conception?
     Who would have mean thoughts of Apollinaris Sidonius, who seems
     to mistake the river Tigris for Euphrates; and, though a good
     historian and learned Bishop of Auvergne, had the misfortune to
     be out in the story of David, making mention of him when the ark
     was sent back by the Philistines upon a cart, which was before
     his time? Though I have no great opinion of Machiavel's learning,
     yet I shall not presently say that he was but a novice in Roman
     History, because he was mistaken in placing Commodus after the
     Emperor Severus.

Coleridge, as we have seen, charges Browne with corrupting the style of the great age. The
charge is not just in regard to either of the two great faults which are urged against the
style, strictly speaking; while it is hardly just in reference to a minor charge which is brought
against what is not quite style, namely, the selection and treatment of the thought. The two
charges first referred to are Latinising of vocabulary and disorderly syntax of sentence. In
regard to the first, Browne Latinises somewhat more than Jeremy Taylor, hardly at all more
than Milton, though he does not, like Milton, contrast and relieve his Latinisms by indulgence
in vernacular terms of the most idiomatic kind; and he is conspicuously free from the great
fault both of Milton and of Taylor--the clumsy conglomeration of clauses which turns a sentence
into a paragraph, and makes a badly ordered paragraph of it after all. Browne's sentences,
especially those of the books regularly prepared for the press by him, are by no means long
and are usually very perspicuous, being separable in some cases into shorter sentences by a
mere mechanical repunctuation which, if tried on Taylor or Milton, would make nonsense. To
say that they are sometimes longer than they should be, and often awkwardly co-ordinated, is
merely to say that he wrote when he wrote; but he by no means sins beyond his fellows. In regard
to Latinisms his case is not so good. He constantly uses such words as "clarity" for "clearness,"
"ferity" for "fierceness" or "wildness," when nothing is gained by the exotic form. Dr. Greenhill's
useful glossary to the Religio and the Morals exhibits in tabular form not merely such terms
as "abbreviatures," "æquilibriously," "bivious," "convincible," "exantlation," and hundreds
of others with which there is no need to fill the page, but also a number only less considerable
of those far more objectionable usages which take a word generally understood in one sense
(as, for instance, "equable," "gratitudes," and many others), and by twisting or translation
of its classical equivalents and etymons give it some quite new sense in English. It is true
that in some cases the usual sense was not then firmly established, but Browne can hardly be
acquitted of wilfully preferring the obscurer.

Yet this hybrid and bizarre vocabulary is so admirably married to the substance of the writing
that no one of taste can find fault with it. For Browne (to come to the third point mentioned
above), though he never descends or diverges--whichever word may be preferred--to the extravagant
and occasionally puerile conceits which even such writers as Fuller and Glanville cannot resist,
has a quaintness at least equal to theirs. In no great writer is the unforeseen so constantly
happening. A fancy so whimsical as this, and yet so admirable in its whimsies, requires a style
in accordance; and the very sentence quoted, though one of the plainest of Browne's, and showing
clearly that he does not always abuse Latinising, would hardly be what it is without the word
"antipodes." So again in the Christian Morals, "Be not stoically mistaken in the quality of
sins, nor commutatively iniquitous in the valuation of transgressions." No expression so terse
and yet so striking could dispense with the classicism and the catachresis of "stoically."
And so it is everywhere with Browne. His manner is exactly proportioned to his matter; his
exotic and unfamiliar vocabulary to the strangeness and novelty of his thoughts. He can never
be really popular; but for the meditative reading of instructed persons he is perhaps the most
delightful of English prosemen.

There are probably few English writers in regard to whom the judgment of critics, usually ranked
as competent, has varied more than in regard to Edward Hyde, Earl of Clarendon. To some extent
this is easily intelligible to any one who, with some equipment, reads any considerable quantity
of his work; but it would be idle to pretend that the great stumbling-block of all criticism--the
attention to matter rather than to form--has had nothing to do with it. Clarendon, at first
not a very zealous Royalist, was the only man of decided literary genius who, with contemporary
knowledge, wrote the history of the great debate between king and commonwealth. The effect
of his history in deciding the question on the Royalist side was felt in England for more than
a century; and since popular judgment has somewhat veered round to the other side, its chief
exponents have found it necessary either to say as little as possible about Clarendon or to
depreciate him. His interesting political history cannot be detailed here. Of a good Cheshire
family, but not originally wealthy, he was educated as a lawyer, was early adopted into the
"tribe of Ben," and was among the first to take advantage of the opening which the disputes
between king and parliament gave to men of his birth, education, and gifts. At first he was
a moderate opponent of the king's attempts to dispense with parliament; but the growing evidence
that the House of Commons was seeking to increase its own constitutional power at the expense
of the prerogative, and especially the anti-Church tendencies of the parliamentary leaders,
converted him at first into a moderate and then into a strong Royalist. One of the chief of
the king's constitutional advisers, he was after the Restoration the most distinguished by
far of those Cavaliers who had parliamentary and constitutional experience; and with the title
and office of Chancellor, he exercised a practical premiership during the first seven years
of the Restoration. But ill-fortune, and it must be confessed some unwisdom, marked his government.
He has been often and truly said to have been a statesman of Elizabeth, born three-quarters
of a century too late. He was thought by the public to be arbitrary, a courtier, and even to
some extent corrupt. He seemed to the king to be a tiresome formalist and censor, who was only
scrupulous in resisting the royal will. So he was impeached; and, being compelled to quit the
kingdom, spent the last seven years of his life in France. His great works, begun during his
first exile and completed during his second, are the History of the Rebellion and his own Life,
the former being by much the more important though the latter (divided into a "Life" and a
"Continuation," the last of which starts from the Restoration) contains much interesting and
important biographical and historical matter. The text of these works was conveyed by his heirs
to the University of Oxford, and long remained an exception to the general rule of the terminableness
of copyright.

Clarendon is a very striking example of the hackneyed remark, that in some cases at any rate
men's merits are their own and their faults those of their time. His literary merits are, looked
at by themselves, of nearly the highest kind. He is certainly the best English writer (and
may challenge any foreigner without much fear of the result) in the great, difficult, and now
almost lost art of character-(or, as it was called in his time, portrait-) drawing--that is
to say, sketching in words the physical, moral, and mental, but especially the moral and mental,
peculiarities of a given person. Not a few of these characters of his are among the well-known
"beauties" justified in selection by the endorsement of half a dozen generations. They are
all full of life; and even where it may be thought that prejudice has had something to do with
the picture, still the subject lives, and is not a mere bundle of contradictory or even of
superficially compatible characteristics. Secondly, Clarendon is at his best an incomparable
narrator. Many of his battles, though related with apparent coolness, and without the slightest
attempt to be picturesque, may rank as works of art with his portraits, just as the portraits
and battle pieces of a great painter may rank together. The sober vivid touches, the little
bits of what the French call reportage or mere reproduction of the actual words and deeds of
the personages, the elaborate and carefully-concealed art of the composition, all deserve the
highest praise. Here, for instance, is a fair average passage, showing Clarendon's masterly
skill in summary narration and his equally masterly, though, as some hold, rather unscrupulous
faculty of insinuating depreciation:--

     "Since there will be often occasion to mention this gentleman,
     Sir Richard Granvil, in the ensuing discourse, and because many
     men believed that he was hardly dealt with in the next year,
     where all the proceedings will be set down at large, it will not
     be unfit in this place to say somewhat of him, and of the manner
     and merit of his entering into the king's service some months
     before the time we are now upon. He was of a very ancient and
     worthy family in Cornwall which had in several ages produced men
     of great courage, and very signal in their fidelity to and
     service of the crown; and was himself younger brother (though in
     his nature or humour not of kin to him) to the brave Sir Basil
     Granvil who so courageously lost his life at the battle of
     Lansdowne. Being a younger brother and a very young man, he went
     into the Low Countries to learn the profession of a soldier; to
     which he had devoted himself under the greatest general of that
     age, Prince Maurice, and in the regiment of my Lord Vere, who was
     general of all the English. In that service he was looked upon as
     a man of courage and a diligent officer, in the quality of a
     captain, to which he attained after four years' service. About
     this time, in the end of the reign of King James, the war broke
     out between England and Spain; and in the expedition to Cadiz
     this gentleman served as a major to a regiment of foot, and
     continued in the same command in the war that shortly after
     followed against France; and at the Isle of Rhé insinuated
     himself into the very good graces of the Duke of Buckingham, who
     was the general in that mission; and after the unfortunate
     retreat from thence was made colonel of a regiment with general
     approbation and as an officer that well deserved it.

     "His credit increased every day with the duke: who, out of the
     generosity of his nature, as a most generous person he was,
     resolved to raise his fortune; towards the beginning of which, by
     his countenance and solicitation, he prevailed with a rich widow
     to marry him, who had been a lady of extraordinary beauty, which
     she had not yet outlived; and though she had no great dower by
     her husband, a younger brother of the Earl of Suffolk, yet she
     inherited a fair fortune of her own near Plymouth, and was
     besides very rich in a personal estate, and was looked upon as
     the richest marriage of the West. This lady, by the duke's
     credit, Sir Richard Granvil (for he was now made a knight and
     baronet) obtained, and was thereby possessed of a plentiful
     estate upon the borders of his own country, and where his own
     family had great credit and authority. The war being now at an
     end and he deprived of his great patron, [he] had nothing to
     depend upon but the fortune of his wife: which, though ample
     enough to have supported the expense a person of his quality
     ought to have made, was not large enough to satisfy his vanity
     and ambition, nor so great as he upon common reports had
     possessed himself by her. By being not enough pleased with her
     fortune he grew displeased with his wife, who, being a woman of a
     haughty and imperious nature and of a wit superior to his,
     quickly resented the disrespect she received from him and in no
     respect studied to make herself easy to him. After some years
     spent together in those domestic unsociable contestations, in
     which he possessed himself of all her estate as the sole master
     of it, without allowing her out of her own any competency for
     herself, and indulged to himself all those licenses in her own
     house which to women are most grievous, she found means to
     withdraw herself from him; and was with all kindness received
     into that family in which she had before been married and was
     always very much respected."

To superficial observers, or observers who have convinced themselves that high lights and bright
colourings are of the essence of the art of the prose writer, Clarendon may seem tame and jejune.
He is in reality just the contrary. His wood is tough enough and close-grained enough, but
there is plenty of sap coursing through it. In yet a third respect, which is less closely connected
with the purely formal aspect of style, Clarendon stands, if not pre-eminent, very high among
historians. This is his union of acute penetration and vigorous grasp in the treatment of complicated
events. It has been hinted that he seems to have somewhat lost grasp, if not penetration, after
the Restoration. But at the time of his earlier participation in public affairs, and of his
composition of the greater part of his historical writings, he was in the very vigour and prime
of life; and though it may be that he was "a Janus of one face," and looked rather backward
than forward, even then he was profoundly acquainted with the facts of English history, with
the character of his countrymen, and with the relations of events as they happened. It may
even be contended by those who care for might-have-beens, that but for the headlong revolt
against Puritanism, which inspired the majority of the nation with a kind of carnival madness
for many years after 1660, and the strange deficiency of statesmen of even moderately respectable
character on both sides (except Clarendon himself, and the fairly upright though time-serving
Temple, there is hardly a respectable man to be found on any side of politics for forty years),
Clarendon's post-Restoration policy itself would not have been the failure that it was. But
it is certain that on the events of his own middle age he looked with the keenest discernment,
and with the widest comprehension.

Against these great merits must be set a treble portion of the great defect which, as we have
said, vitiates all the English prose work of his time, the unconscious or wilful ignoring of
the very fundamental principles of sentence-and paragraph-architecture. His mere syntax, in
the most restricted sense of that word, is not very bad; he seldom indulges out of mere incuria
in false concords or blunders over a relative. But he is the most offending soul alive at any
time in English literature in one grave point. No one has put together, or, to adopt a more
expressive phrase, heaped together such enormous paragraphs; no one has linked clause on clause,
parenthesis on parenthesis, epexegesis on exegesis, in such a bewildering concatenation of
inextricable entanglement. Sometimes, of course, the difficulty is more apparent than real,
and by simply substituting full stops and capitals for his colons and conjunctions, one may,
to some extent, simplify the chaos. But it is seldom that this is really effective: it never
produces really well balanced sentences and really well constructed paragraphs; and there are
constant instances in which it is not applicable at all. It is not that the jostling and confused
relatives are as a rule grammatically wrong, like the common blunder of putting an "and which"
where there is no previous "which" expressed or implied. They, simply, put as they are, bewilder
and muddle the reader because the writer has not taken the trouble to break up his sentence
into two or three. This is, of course, a very gross abuse, and except when the talents above
noticed either fuse his style into something better, or by the interest they excite divert
the attention of the reader, it constantly makes Clarendon anything but agreeable reading,
and produces an impression of dryness and prolixity with which he is not quite justly chargeable.
The plain truth is that, as has been said often before, and may have to be said more than once
again, the sense of proportion and order in prose composition was not born. The famous example--the
awful example--of Oliver Cromwell's speeches shows the worst-known instance of this; but the
best writers of Cromwell's own generation--far better educated than he, professed men of letters
after a fashion, and without the excuse of impromptu, or of the scurry of unnoted, speech--sometimes
came not far behind him.

Against one great writer of the time, however, no such charge can be justly brought. Although
much attention has recently been given to the philosophical opinions of Hobbes, since the unjust
prejudice against his religious and political ideas wore away, and since the complete edition
of his writings published at last in 1843 by Sir William Molesworth made him accessible, the
extraordinary merits of his style have on the whole had rather less than justice done to them.
He was in many ways a very singular person. Born at Malmesbury in the year of the Armada, he
was educated at Oxford, and early in the seventeenth century was appointed tutor to the eldest
son of Lord Hardwick, afterwards Earl of Devonshire. For full seventy years he was on and off
in the service of the Cavendish family; but sometimes acted as tutor to others, and both in
that capacity and for other reasons lived long abroad. In his earlier manhood he was much in
the society of Bacon, Jonson, and the literary folk of the English capital; and later he was
equally familiar with the society (rather scientific than literary) of Paris. In 1647 he was
appointed mathematical tutor to the Prince of Wales; but his mathematics were not his most
fortunate acquirement, and they involved him in long and acrimonious disputes with Wallis and
others--disputes, it may be said, where Hobbes was quite wrong. The publication of his philosophical
treatises, and especially of the Leviathan, brought him into very bad odour, not merely on
political grounds (which, so long as the Commonwealth lasted, would not have been surprising),
but for religious reasons; and during the last years of his life, and for long afterwards,
"Hobbist" was, certainly with very little warrant from his writings, used as a kind of polite
equivalent for atheist. He was pensioned after the Restoration, and the protection of the king
and the Earl of Devonshire kept him scatheless, if ever there was any real danger. Hobbes,
however, was a timid and very much self-centred person, always fancying that plots were being
laid against him. He died at the great age of ninety-two.

This long life was wholly taken up with study, but did not produce a very large amount of original
composition. It is true that his collected works fill sixteen volumes; but they are loosely
printed, and much space is occupied with diagrams, indices, and such like things, while a very
large proportion of the matter appears twice over, in Latin and in English. In the latter case
Hobbes usually wrote first in Latin, and was not always his own translator; but it would appear
that he generally revised the work, though he neither succeeded in obliterating nor perhaps
attempted to obliterate the marks of the original vehicle. His earliest publication was a singularly
vigorous, if not always scholastically exact, translation of Thucydides into English, which
appeared in 1629. Thirteen years later he published in Paris the De Cive, which was shortly
followed by the treatise on Human Nature and the De Corpore Politico. The latter of these was
to a great extent worked up in the famous Leviathan, or the Matter, Power, and Form of a Commonwealth,
which appeared in 1651. The important De Corpore, which corresponds to the Leviathan on the
philosophical side, appeared in Latin in 1655, in English next year. Besides minor works, Hobbes
employed his old age on a translation of Homer into verse, and on a sketch of the Civil Wars
called Behemoth.

His verse is a mere curiosity, though a considerable curiosity. The chief of it (the translation
of Homer written in the quatrain, which his friend Davenant's Gondibert had made popular) is
completely lacking in poetical quality, of which, perhaps, no man ever had less than Hobbes;
and it is written on a bad model. But it has so much of the nervous bull-dog strength which,
in literature if not in life, was Hobbes's main characteristic, that it is sometimes both a
truer and a better representative of the original than some very mellifluous and elegant renderings.
It is as a prose writer, however, that Hobbes made, and that he will keep, his fame. With his
principles in the various branches of philosophy we have little or nothing to do. In choosing
them he manifested, no doubt, something of the same defiance of authority, and the same self-willed
preference for his own not too well-educated opinion, which brought him to grief in his encounter
with Wallis. But when he had once left his starting points, his sureness of reasoning, his
extreme perspicacity, and the unerring clearness and certainty with which he kept before him,
and expressed exactly what he meant, made him at once one of the greatest thinkers and one
of the greatest writers of England. Hobbes never "pays himself with words," never evades a
difficulty by becoming obscure, never meanders on in the graceful allusive fashion of many
philosophers,--a fashion for which the prevalent faults of style were singularly convenient
in his time. He has no ornament, he does not seem to aim at anything more than the simplest
and most straightforward presentation of his views. But this very aim, assisted by his practice
in writing the terse and clear, if not very elegant, Latin which was the universal language
of the literary Europe of his time, suffices to preserve him from most of the current sins.
Moreover, it is fair to remember that, though the last to die, he was the first to be born
of the authors mentioned in this chapter, and that he may be supposed, late as he wrote, to
have formed his style before the period of Jacobean and Caroline luxuriance.

Almost any one of Hobbes's books would suffice to illustrate his style; but the short and interesting
treatise on Human Nature, perhaps, shows it at its best. The author's exceptional clearness
may be assisted by his lavish use of italics; but it is not necessary to read far in order
to see that it is in reality quite independent of any clumsy mechanical device. The crabbed
but sharply outlined style, the terse phrasing, the independence of all after-thoughts and
tackings-on, manifest themselves at once to any careful observer. Here for instance is a passage,
perhaps his finest, on Love, followed by a political extract from another work:--

