It was same with Don Ferdinando. Mr. Summerfield was a very great engineering swell when he
was at home in London. Jimmy couldn't help feeling rather awed by him. And so his stammering
to Don Ferdinando was something "so utterly utter" (as his brother said) that no fellow could
listen to it without manifest pain, mirth, or impatience. In Don Ferdinando's case, it was
generally impatience. His time was worth pounds a minute or so.

"All right," said Toro. "And my throat ain't drier than your back now, Don Jimmy; so you can
put your clothes on and listen. They're going to bust the mine this afternoon--that's what
they're going to do; and they'd knife me if they knew I was letting on."

"What?" cried Jimmy.

"It's a fact," said Toro, dropping the towel and feeling for a cigarette. "They're all so mighty
well sure they won't be let go down to Bavaro for the Saint Gavino kick-up to-morrow that they've
settled to do that. If there ain't no portering to do, they'll be let go. That's how they look
at it. They don't care, not a peseta between 'em, how much it costs the company to get the
machine put right again; not them skunks don't. What they want is to have a twelve-hour go
at the wine in the valley. You won't tell of me, Don Jimmy?"

"S--s--snakes!" said Jimmy.

Then he had started to run from the Lago Frio, with his coat on his arm. Dressing was a quick
job in those wilds, where at midday in summer one didn't want much clothing.

"No, I won't let on!" he had cried back over his shoulder.

Toro, the Cuban kiddy, sat down on the margin of the cold blue lake and finished his cigarette
reflectively. White folks, especially white English-speaking ones, were rather unsatisfactory.
He liked them, because as a rule he could trust them. But Don Jimmy needn't have hurried away
like that. He, Toro, hoped to have had licence to draw his pay for fully another hour's enjoyable
idleness. As things were, however, Don Alonso, the foreman, would be sure to be down on him
if he were two minutes after Don Jimmy among the red-earth heaps and the galvanised shanties
of the calamine mine on its perch eight hundred feet sheer above the Vega Verde.

Jim Cayley was a few moments late for the soup after all.

"I s--s--say!" he began, as he bounced into the room.

"Say nothing, my lad!" exclaimed Don Alfredo, looking up from his newspaper.

[Words missing in original] mail had just arrived--an eight-mile climb, made daily, both ways,
by one of the gang.

Mrs. Jumbo, the moustached old Spanish lady who looked after the house, put his soup before Jimmy.

"Eat, my dear," she said in Spanish, caressing his damp hair--one of her many amiable yet detested
little tricks, to signify her admiration of Jim's fresh complexion and general style of beauty.

"But it's--it's--it's most imp--p--p----"

Don Ferdinando set down his spoon. He also let the highly grave letter from London which he
was reading slip into his soup.

"I tell you what, Cayley," he said, "if you don't crush this young brother of yours, I will.
This is a matter of life or death, and I must have a clear head to think it out."

"I was only saying," cried Jim desperately. But his brother stopped him.

"Hold your tongue, Jim," he said. "We've worry enough to go on with just at present. I mean
it, my lad. If you've anything important to proclaim, leave it to me to give you the tip when
to splutter at it. I'm solemn."

When Don Alfredo said he was "solemn," it often meant that he was on the edge of a most unbrotherly
rage. And so Jim concentrated upon his dinner. He made wry faces at Mrs. Jumbo and her strokings,
and even found fault with the soup when she asked him sweetly if it were not excellent. All
this to relieve his feelings.

The two engineers left Jim to finish his dinner by himself. Jim's renewed effort of "I say,
Alf!" was quenched by the upraised hands of both engineers.

Outside they were met by Don Alonso, the foreman, a very smart and go-ahead fellow indeed,
considering that he was a Spaniard.

"They'll strike, señores!" said Don Alonso, with a shrug. "It can't be helped, I'm afraid.
It's all Domecq's doing, the scoundrel! Why didn't you dismiss him, Don Alfredo, after that
affair of Moreno's death? There's not a doubt he killed Moreno, and he hasn't a spark of gratitude
or goodness in his nature."

"He's a capable hand," said Alfred Cayley.

"Too much so, by half," said Don Ferdinando. "If he were off the mine, Elgos, we should run
smoothly, eh?"

"I'll answer for that, señor," replied the foreman. "As it is, he plays his cards against mine.
His influence is extraordinary. There'll not be a man here to-morrow; Saint Gavino will have
all their time and money."

"You don't expect any active mischief, I hope?" suggested Don Ferdinando.

The foreman thought not. He had heard no word of any.

"Very well, then. I'll settle Domecq straight off," said Don Ferdinando.

He returned to the house and pocketed his revolver. They had to be prepared for all manner
of emergencies in these wilds of Asturias, especially on the eves and morrows of Saints' days.
But it didn't at all follow that because Don Ferdinando pocketed his shooter he was likely
to be called upon to use it.

The three were separating after this when a lad in a blue cotton jacket rose lazily from behind
a heap of calamine just to the rear of them, and swung off towards the machinery on the edge
of the precipice.

"Pedro!" called the foreman, and, returning, the lad was asked if he had been listening.

He vowed that such a thought had not entered his head. He had been asleep; that was all.

"Very good!" said the foreman. "You may go, and it's fifty cents off your wage list that your
sleep out of season has cost you."

Discipline at the mine had to be of the strictest. Any laxity, and the laziest man was bound
to start an epidemic of laziness.

Don Ferdinando set off for the Vega, eight hundred feet sheer below the mine. It was a ticklish
zigzag, just to the left of the transporting machinery, with twenty places in which a slip
would mean death.

Domecq was working down below, lading the stuff into bullock-carts.

Alfred Cayley disappeared into one of the upper galleries, to see how they were panning out.

The snow mountains and the afternoon sun looked down upon a very pleasing scene of industry--blue-jacketed
workers and heaps of ore; and upon Jim Cayley also, who had enjoyed his dinner so thoroughly
that he didn't think so much as before about his rejected information.

But now again the Cuban kiddy drifted towards him, making for the zigzag.

Jim hailed him.

"Can't stop, Don Jimmy!" said Toro. But when he was some yards down, he beckoned to Jim, who
quickly joined him.

They conferred on the edge of a ghastly precipice.

"I'm off down to tell Domecq that it's going to be done at two-thirty prompt," said Toro.

"What's going to be d--done?" asked Jimmy.

"What I told you about. They've cut the 'phone down to the 'llano' as a start. But that's nothing.
You just go and squat by the engine and see what happens. Guess they'll not mind you."

To tell the truth, Jim was a trifle dazed. He didn't grapple the ins and outs of a conspiracy
of Spanish miners just for the sake of a holiday. And as Toro couldn't wait (it was close on
half-past two), Jim thought he might as well act on his advice. He liked to see the big buckets
of ore swinging off into space from the mine level and making their fearful journey at a thrilling
angle, down, down until, as mere specks, they reached the transport and washing department
of the mine in the Vega. Two empty buckets came up as two full ones went down, travelling with
a certain sublimity along the double rope of woven wire.

