May 25.--A three hours' bay-trip from 12 to 3 this afternoon, accompanying "the City of Brussels"
down as far as the Narrows, in behoof of some Europe-bound friends, to give them a good send
off. Our spirited little tug, the "Seth Low," kept close to the great black "Brussels," sometimes
one side, sometimes the other, always up to her, or even pressing ahead, (like the blooded
pony accompanying the royal elephant.) The whole affair, from the first, was an animated, quick-passing,
characteristic New York scene; the large, good-looking, well-dress'd crowd on the wharf-end--men
and women come to see their friends depart, and bid them God-speed--the ship's sides swarming
with passengers--groups of bronze-faced sailors, with uniform' d officers at their posts--the
quiet directions, as she quickly unfastens and moves out, prompt to a minute--the emotional
faces, adieus and fluttering handkerchiefs, and many smiles and some tears on the wharf--the
answering faces, smiles, tears and fluttering handkerchiefs, from the ship--(what can be subtler
and finer than this play of faces on such occasions in these responding crowds?--what go more
to one's heart?)--the proud, steady, noiseless cleaving of the grand oceaner down the bay--we
speeding by her side a few miles, and then turning, wheeling,--amid a babel of wild hurrahs,
shouted partings, ear-splitting steam whistles, kissing of hands and waving of handkerchiefs.

This departing of the big steamers, noons or afternoons--there is no better medicine when one
is listless or vapory. I am fond of going down Wednesdays and Saturdays--their more special
days--to watch them and the crowds on the wharves, the arriving passengers, the general bustle
and activity, the eager looks from the faces, the clear-toned voices, (a travel'd foreigner,
a musician, told me the other day she thinks an American crowd has the finest voices in the
world,) the whole look of the great, shapely black ships themselves, and their groups and lined
sides--in the setting of our bay with the blue sky overhead. Two days after the above I saw
the "Britannic," the "Donau," the "Helvetia" and the "Schiedam" steam out, all off for Europe--a
magnificent sight.

TWO HOURS ON THE MINNESOTA

From 7 to 9, aboard the United States school-ship Minnesota, lying up the North river. Captain
Luce sent his gig for us about sundown, to the foot of Twenty-third street, and receiv'd us
aboard with officer-like hospitality and sailor heartiness. There are several hundred youths
on the Minnesota to be train'd for efficiently manning the government navy. I like the idea
much; and, so far as I have seen to-night, I like the way it is carried out on this huge vessel.
Below, on the gun-deck, were gather'd nearly a hundred of the boys, to give us some of their
singing exercises, with a melodeon accompaniment, play'd by one of their number. They sang
with a will. The best part, however, was the sight of the young fellows themselves. I went
over among them before the singing began, and talk'd a few minutes informally. They are from
all the States; I asked for the Southerners, but could only find one, a lad from Baltimore.
In age, apparently, they range from about fourteen years to nineteen or twenty. They are all
of American birth, and have to pass a rigid medical examination; well-grown youths, good flesh,
bright eyes, looking straight at you, healthy, intelligent, not a slouch among them, nor a
menial--in every one the promise of a man. I have been to many public aggregations of young
and old, and of schools and colleges, in my day, but I confess I have never been so near satisfied,
so comforted, (both from the fact of the school itself, and the splendid proof of our country,
our composite race, and the sample-promises of its good average capacities, its future,) as
in the collection from all parts of the United States on this navy training ship. ("Are there
going to be any men there?" was the dry and pregnant reply of Emerson to one who had been crowding
him with the rich material statistics and possibilities of some western or Pacific region.)

May 26.--Aboard the Minnesota again. Lieut. Murphy kindly came for me in his boat. Enjoy'd
specially those brief trips to and fro--the sailors, tann'd, strong, so bright and able-looking,
pulling their oars in long side-swing, man-of-war style, as they row'd me across. I saw the
boys in companies drilling with small arms; had a talk with Chaplain Rawson. At 11 o'clock
all of us gathered to breakfast around a long table in the great ward room--I among the rest--a
genial, plentiful, hospitable affair every way--plenty to eat, and of the best; became acquainted
with several new officers. This second visit, with its observations, talks, (two or three at
random with the boys,) confirm'd my first impressions.

MATURE SUMMER DAYS AND NIGHTS

Aug. 4.--Forenoon--as I sit under the willow shade, (have retreated down in the country again,)
a little bird is leisurely dousing and flirting himself amid the brook almost within reach
of me. He evidently fears me not--takes me for some concomitant of the neighboring earthy banks,
free bushery and wild weeds. 6 p.m.--The last three days have been perfect ones for the season,
(four nights ago copious rains, with vehement thunder and lightning.) I write this sitting
by the creek watching my two kingfishers at their sundown sport. The strong, beautiful, joyous
creatures! Their wings glisten in the slanted sunbeams as they circle and circle around, occasionally
dipping and dashing the water, and making long stretches up and down the creek. Wherever I
go over fields, through lanes, in by-places, blooms the white-flowering wild-carrot, its delicate
pat of snow-flakes crowning its slender stem, gracefully oscillating in the breeze,

EXPOSITION BUILDING--NEW CITY HALL--RIVER TRIP

PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 26.--Last night and to-night of unsurpass'd clearness, after two days' rain;
moon splendor and star splendor. Being out toward the great Exposition building, West Philadelphia,
I saw it lit up, and thought I would go in. There was a ball, democratic but nice; plenty of
young couples waltzing and quadrilling--music by a good string-band. To the sight and hearing
of these--to moderate strolls up and down the roomy spaces--to getting off aside, resting in
an arm-chair and looking up a long while at the grand high roof with its graceful and multitudinous
work of iron rods, angles, gray colors, plays of light and shade, receding into dim outlines--to
absorbing (in the intervals of the string band,) some capital voluntaries and rolling caprices
from the big organ at the other end of the building--to sighting a shadow'd figure or group
or couple of lovers every now and then passing some near or farther aisle--I abandon'd myself
for over an hour.

Returning home, riding down Market street in an open summer car, something detain'd us between
Fifteenth and Broad, and I got out to view better the new, three-fifths-built marble edifice,
the City Hall, of magnificent proportions--a majestic and lovely show there in the moonlight--flooded
all over, facades, myriad silver-white lines and carv'd heads and mouldings, with the soft
dazzle--silent, weird, beautiful--well, I know that never when finish'd will that magnificent
pile impress one as it impress'd me those fifteen minutes.

To-night, since, I have been long on the river. I watch the C-shaped Northern Crown, (with
the star Alshacca that blazed out so suddenly, alarmingly, one night a few years ago.) The
moon in her third quarter, and up nearly all night. And there, as I look eastward, my long-absent
Pleiades, welcome again to sight. For an hour I enjoy the soothing and vital scene to the low
splash of waves--new stars steadily, noiselessly rising in the east.

As I cross the Delaware, one of the deck-hands, F. R., tells me how a woman jump'd overboard
and was drown'd a couple of hours since. It happen'd in mid-channel--she leap'd from the forward
part of the boat, which went over her. He saw her rise on the other side in the swift running
water, throw her arms and closed hands high up, (white hands and bare forearms in the moonlight
like a flash,) and then she sank. (I found out afterwards that this young fellow had promptly
jump'd in, swam after the poor creature, and made, though unsuccessfully, the bravest efforts
to rescue her; but he didn't mention that part at all in telling me the story.)

SWALLOWS ON THE RIVER

Sept. 3--Cloudy and wet, and wind due east; air without palpable fog, but very heavy with moisture--welcome
for a change. Forenoon, crossing the Delaware, I noticed unusual numbers of swallows in flight,
circling, darting, graceful beyond description, close to the water. Thick, around the bows
of the ferry-boat as she lay tied in her slip, they flew; and as we went out I watch'd beyond
the pier-heads, and across the broad stream, their swift-winding loop-ribands of motion, down
close to it, cutting and intersecting. Though I had seen swallows all my life, seem'd as though
I never before realized their peculiar beauty and character in the landscape. (Some time ago,
for an hour, in a huge old country barn, watching these birds flying, recall'd the 22d book
of the Odyssey, where Ulysses slays the suitors, bringing things to eclaircissement, and Minerva,
swallow-bodied, darts up through the spaces of the hall, sits high on a beam, looks complacently
on the show of slaughter, and feels in her element, exulting, joyous.)

BEGIN A LONG JAUNT WEST

The following three or four months (Sept. to Dec. '79) I made quite a western journey, fetching
up at Denver, Colorado, and penetrating the Rocky Mountain region enough to get a good notion
of it all. Left West Philadelphia after 9 o'clock one night, middle of September, in a comfortable
sleeper. Oblivious of the two or three hundred miles across Pennsylvania; at Pittsburgh in
the morning to breakfast. Pretty good view of the city and Birmingham--fog and damp, smoke,
coke-furnaces, flames, discolor'd wooden houses, and vast collections of coal-barges. Presently
a bit of fine region, West Virginia, the Panhandle, and crossing the river, the Ohio. By day
through the latter State--then Indiana--and so rock'd to slumber for a second night, flying
like lightning through Illinois.

IN THE SLEEPER

What a fierce weird pleasure to lie in my berth at night in the luxurious palace-car, drawn
by the mighty Baldwin--embodying, and filling me, too, full of the swiftest motion, and most
resistless strength! It is late, perhaps midnight or after--distances join'd like magic--as
we speed through Harrisburg, Columbus, Indianapolis. The element of danger adds zest to it
all. On we go, rumbling and flashing, with our loud whinnies thrown out from time to time,
or trumpet-blasts, into the darkness. Passing the homes of men, the farms, barns, cattle--the
silent villages. And the car itself, the sleeper, with curtains drawn and lights turn'd down--in
the berths the slumberers, many of them women and children--as on, on, on, we fly like lightning
through the night--how strangely sound and sweet they sleep! (They say the French Voltaire
in his time designated the grand opera and a ship of war the most signal illustrations of the
growth of humanity's and art's advance beyond primitive barbarism. Perhaps if the witty philosopher
were here these days, and went in the same car with perfect bedding and feed from New York
to San Francisco, he would shift his type and sample to one of our American sleepers.)

MISSOURI STATE

We should have made the run of 960 miles from Philadelphia to St. Louis in thirty-six hours,
but we had a collision and bad locomotive smash about two-thirds of the way, which set us back.
So merely stopping over night that time in St. Louis, I sped on westward. As I cross'd Missouri
State the whole distance by the St. Louis and Kansas City Northern Railroad, a fine early autumn
day, I thought my eyes had never looked on scenes of greater pastoral beauty. For over two
hundred miles successive rolling prairies, agriculturally perfect view'd by Pennsylvania and
New Jersey eyes, and dotted here and there with fine timber. Yet fine as the land is, it isn't
the finest portion; (there is a bed of impervious clay and hard-pan beneath this section that
holds water too firmly, "drowns the land in wet weather, and bakes it in dry," as a cynical
farmer told me.) South are some richer tracts, though perhaps the beauty-spots of the State
are the northwestern counties. Altogether, I am clear, (now, and from what I have seen and
learn'd since,) that Missouri, in climate, soil, relative situation, wheat, grass, mines, railroads,
and every important materialistic respect, stands in the front rank of the Union. Of Missouri
averaged politically and socially I have heard all sorts of talk, some pretty severe--but I
should have no fear myself of getting along safely and comfortably anywhere among the Missourians.
They raise a good deal of tobacco. You see at this time quantities of the light greenish-gray
leaves pulled and hanging out to dry on temporary frameworks or rows of sticks. Looks much
like the mullein familiar to eastern eyes.

LAWRENCE AND TOPEKA, KANSAS

We thought of stopping in Kansas City, but when we got there we found a train ready and a crowd
of hospitable Kansians to take us on to Lawrence, to which I proceeded. I shall not soon forget
my good days in L., in company with Judge Usher and his sons, (especially John and Linton,)
true westerners of the noblest type. Nor the similar days in Topeka. Nor the brotherly kindness
of my RR. friends there, and the city and State officials. Lawrence and Topeka are large, bustling,
half-rural, handsome cities. I took two or three long drives about the latter, drawn by a spirited
team over smooth roads.

THE PRAIRIES (and an Undeliver'd Speech)

At a large popular meeting at Topeka--the Kansas State Silver Wedding, fifteen or twenty thousand
people--I had been erroneously bill'd to deliver a poem. As I seem'd to be made much of, and
wanted to be good-natured, I hastily pencill'd out the following little speech. Unfortunately,
(or fortunately,) I had such a good time and rest, and talk and dinner, with the U. boys, that
I let the hours slip away and didn't drive over to the meeting and speak my piece. But here
it is just the same:

"My friends, your bills announce me as giving a poem; but I have no poem--have composed none
for this occasion. And I can honestly say I am now glad of it. Under these skies resplendent
in September beauty--amid the peculiar landscape you are used to, but which is new to me--these
interminable and stately prairies--in the freedom and vigor and sane enthusiasm of this perfect
western air and autumn sunshine--it seems to me a poem would be almost an impertinence. But
if you care to have a word from me, I should speak it about these very prairies; they impress
me most, of all the objective shows I see or have seen on this, my first real visit to the
West. As I have roll'd rapidly hither for more than a thousand miles, through fair Ohio, through
bread-raising Indiana and Illinois--through ample Missouri, that contains and raises everything;
as I have partially explor'd your charming city during the last two days, and, standing on
Oread hill, by the university, have launch'd my view across broad expanses of living green,
in every direction--I have again been most impress'd, I say, and shall remain for the rest
of my life most impress'd, with that feature of the topography of your western central world--that
vast Something, stretching out on its own unbounded scale, unconfined, which there is in these
prairies, combining the real and ideal, and beautiful as dreams.

"I wonder indeed if the people of this continental inland West know how much of first-class
art they have in these prairies--how original and all your own--how much of the influences
of a character for your future humanity, broad, patriotic, heroic and new? how entirely they
tally on land the grandeur and superb monotony of the skies of heaven, and the ocean with its
waters? how freeing, soothing, nourishing they are to the soul?

"Then is it not subtly they who have given us our leading modern Americans, Lincoln and Grant?--vast-spread,
average men--their foregrounds of character altogether practical and real, yet (to those who
have eyes to see) with finest backgrounds of the ideal, towering high as any. And do we not
see, in them, foreshadowings of the future races that shall fill these prairies?

"Not but what the Yankee and Atlantic States, and every other part--Texas, and the States flanking
the south-east and the Gulf of Mexico--the Pacific shore empire--the Territories and Lakes,
and the Canada line (the day is not yet, but it will come, including Canada entire)--are equally
and integrally and indissolubly this Nation, the sine qua non of the human, political and commercial
New World. But this favor'd central area of (in round numbers) two thousand miles square seems
fated to be the home both of what I would call America's distinctive ideas and distinctive
realities."

ON TO DENVER--A FRONTIER INCIDENT

The jaunt of five or six hundred miles from Topeka to Denver took me through a variety of country,
but all unmistakably prolific, western, American, and on the largest scale. For a long distance
we follow the line of the Kansas river, (I like better the old name, Kaw,) a stretch of very
rich, dark soil, famed for its wheat, and call'd the Golden Belt--then plains and plains, hour
after hour--Ellsworth county, the centre of the State--where I must stop a moment to tell a
characteristic story of early days--scene the very spot where I am passing--time 1868. In a
scrimmage at some public gathering in the town, A. had shot B. quite badly, but had not kill'd
him. The sober men of Ellsworth conferr'd with one another and decided that A. deserv'd punishment.
As they wished to set a good example and establish their reputation the reverse of a Lynching
town, they open an informal court and bring both men before them for deliberate trial. Soon
as this trial begins the wounded man is led forward to give his testimony. Seeing his enemy
in durance and unarm'd, B. walks suddenly up in a fury and shoots A. through the head--shoots
him dead. The court is instantly adjourn'd, and its unanimous members, without a word of debate,
walk the murderer B. out, wounded as he is, and hang him.

In due time we reach Denver, which city I fall in love with from the first, and have that feeling
confirm'd, the longer I stay there. One of my pleasantest days was a jaunt, via Platte canon,
to Leadville.

AN HOUR ON KENOSHA SUMMIT

Jottings from the Rocky Mountains, mostly pencill'd during a day's trip over the South Park
RR., returning from Leadville, and especially the hour we were detain'd, (much to my satisfaction,)
at Kenosha summit. As afternoon advances, novelties, far-reaching splendors, accumulate under
the bright sun in this pure air. But I had better commence with the day.

