To account for this law is not very difficult. The elder brothers of a family were supposed
to have left their father's house before his death, and obtained a house and necessaries of
their own; but the youngest, by reason of his tender age, was considered as more helpless,
and not so well provided. Halbert H.

       *       *       *       *       *

STORM RAISING

The dread of storm raisers is universally prevalent amongst the Italian peasantry, and especially
in mountainous districts. A Danish botanist, journeying alone upon an ass through the mountains
of Abruzzi, was involved in several perilous adventures by this superstitious terror of the
peasantry. They had for some time seen him collecting plants amongst the unfrequented cliffs
and ravines, and watched his proceedings with suspicious curiosity. A few days later their
district was ravaged by a succession of storms, their suspicions grew into certainty, and,
assembling in considerable numbers, they attacked the unconscious botanist with a volley of
stones, and cursed him as a storm-raising enchanter. He made vehement protestations of his
innocence, but the enraged peasants took forcible possession of his collection, which they
minutely examined. Finding only some harmless leaves and blossoms, and no roots, their fury
abated, and, although it was suggested by some that he had probably used the roots in his incantations,
the unfortunate herbalist was at length dismissed with fierce menaces, that if he dared to
take a single root from the ground, it would cost him his life. In the mountains near Rome,
the peasants regard with suspicion a singular costume, a stern cast of countenance, or any
striking personal formation, in the strangers who arrive there. All travellers, thus peculiarly
marked, are supposed to be enchanters and treasure-seekers, and the young Germans, in their
black dresses, untrimmed beards, and long hair, are especial objects of suspicion.--Blackwood's
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEAPOLITAN SUPERSTITION.

The Neapolitan sailors never go to sea without a box of small images or puppets, some of which
are patron saints, inherited from their progenitors, while others are more modern, but of tried
efficacy in the hour of peril. When a storm overtakes the vessel, the sailors leave her to
her fate, and bring upon deck the box of saints, one of which is held up, and loudly prayed
to for assistance. The storm, however, increases, and the obstinate or powerless saint is vehemently
abused, and thrown upon the deck. Others are held up, prayed to, abused, and thrown down in
succession, until the heavens become more propitious. The storm abates, all danger disappears,
the saint last prayed to acquires the reputation of miraculous efficacy, and, after their return
to Naples, is honoured with prayers.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Naturalist.

       *       *       *       *       *

LENGTH AND FINENESS OF THE SILKWORM'S WEB, &c.

Baker in The Microscope made Easy, says, "A silkworm's web being examined, appeared perfectly
smooth and shining, every where equal, and much finer than any thread the best spinster in
the world can make, as the smallest twine is finer than the thickest cable. A pod of this silk
being wound off, was found to contain 930 yards; but it is proper to take notice, that as two
threads are glewed together by the worm through its whole length, it makes double the above
number, or 1,860 yards; which being weighed with the utmost exactness, were found no heavier
than two grains and a half. What an exquisite fineness is here! and yet, this is nothing when
compared with the web of a small spider, or even with the silk that issued from the mouth of
this very worm, when but newly hatched from the egg."

Under the article Silk, in Rees's Cyclopaedia, the writer says, "that those who have examined
it attentively, think they speak within compass, when they affirm that each ball contains silk
enough to reach the length of six English miles."

Baker tells us, "not to neglect the skins these animals cast off three times before they begin
to spin; for the eyes, mouth, teeth, ornaments of the head, and many other parts may be discovered
better in the cast-off skins than in the real animal."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

CUCKOO

Mr. Jerdan, editor of the Literary Gazette, in a letter to Mr. Loudon, says, "about fifteen
years ago I obtained a cuckoo from the nest of (I think) a hedge sparrow, at Old Brompton,
where I then resided. It was rather curious, as being within ten yards of my house, Cromwell
Cottage, and in a narrow and much frequented lane, leading from near Gloucester Lodge to Kensington.
This bird I reared and kept alive till late in January; when it fell suddenly from its perch,
while feeding on a rather large dew worm. It was buried: but I had, long afterwards, strange
misgivings, that my poor feathered favourite was only choked by his food, or in a fit of some
kind--his apparent death was so extremely unexpected from his health and liveliness at the
time. I assure you that I regretted my loss much, my bird being in full plumage and a very
handsome creature. He was quite tame, for in autumn I used to set him on a branch of a tree
in the garden, while I dug worms for him to dine upon, and he never attempted more than a short
friendly flight. During the coldest weather, and it was rather a sharp winter, my only precaution
was, nearly to cover his cage with flannel; and when I used to take it off, more or less, on
coming into my breakfast room in the morning, I was recognised by him with certainly not all
the cry "unpleasant to a married ear," but with its full half "Cuck! Cuck!"--the only sounds
or notes I ever heard from my bird. Though trifling, these facts may be so far curious as illustrating
the natural history of a remarkable genus, and I have great pleasure in offering them for your
excellent Journal." Mag. Nat. Hist.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL SNAILS.

As I was sitting in my room, on the first floor, about nine P.M. (4th of October last), I was
surprised with what I supposed to be the notes of a bird, under or upon the sill of a window.
My impression was, that they somewhat resembled the notes of a wild duck in its nocturnal flight,
and, at times, the twitter of a redbreast, in quick succession. To be satisfied on the subject,
I carefully removed the shutter, and, to my surprise, found it was a garden snail, which, in
drawing itself along the glass, had produced sounds similar to those elicited from the musical
glasses.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEWICK.

In the museum at Newcastle are many of the identical specimens from which the illustrious townsman
Bewick drew his figures for the wood-cuts which embellish his unique and celebrated work. This
truly amiable man, and, beyond all comparison, greatest genius Newcastle has ever produced,
died on the 8th of November last, in the 76th year of his age. He continued to the last in
the enjoyment of all his faculties; his single-heartedness and enthusiasm not a jot abated,
and his wonder-working pencil still engaged in tracing, with his wonted felicity and fidelity,
those objects which had all his life afforded him such delight, and which have charmed, and
must continue to charm, all those who have any relish for the pure and simple beauties of nature.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Learn of the little Nautilus to sail,
  Spread the thin oar, and catch the driving gale.

This species of shell-fish, (see the cut,) is named from Argonautes, the companions of Jason,
in the celebrated ship, Argo, and from the Latin naus, a ship; the shells of all the Nautili
having the appearance of a ship with a very high poop. The shell of this interesting creature
is no thicker than paper, and divided into forty compartments or chambers, through every one
of which a portion of its body passes, connected as it were, by a thread. In the cut it is
represented as sailing, when it expands two of its arms on high, and between these supports
a membrane which serves as a sail, hanging the two other arms out of its shell, to serve as
oars, the office of steerage being generally served by the tail.

The shell of the Nautilus being exceedingly thin and fragile, the tenant has many enemies,
and among others the Trochus who makes war on it with unrelenting fury. Pursued by this cruel
foe, it ascends to the top of the water, spreads its little sail to catch the flying breeze,
and rowing with all its might, scuds along, like a galley in miniature, and often escapes its
more cumbrous pursuer. Sometimes, however, all will not do, the Trochus nears and nears, and
escape appears impossible; but when the little animal, with inexplicable ingenuity, suddenly
and secretly extricates itself from its tortuous and fragile dwelling, the Trochus immediately
turns to other prey. The Nautilus then returns to tenant and repair its little bark; but it
too often happens, that before he can regain it, it is by a species of shipwreck, dashed to
pieces on the shore. Thus wretchedly situated, this hero of the testaceous tribe seeks some
obscure corner "where to die," but which seldom, if ever, happens, until after he has made
extraordinary exertions to establish himself anew. What a fine picture of virtue nobly struggling
with misfortune.[8]

When the sea is calm, whole fleets of these Nautili may be seen diverting themselves; but when
a storm rises, or they are disturbed, they draw in their legs, take in as much water as makes
them specifically heavier, than that in which they float, and then sink to the bottom. When
they rise again they void this water by numerous holes, of which their legs are full. The other
species of Nautilus, whose shell is thick, never quits that habitation. The shells of both
varieties are exceedingly beautiful when polished, and produce high prices among Conchologists.

It is easy to conceive that the ingenious habits of this wonderful creature may have suggested
to man the power of sailing upon the sea, and of the various apparatus by which he effects
that object. The whole creation abounds with similar instances of Nature ministering to the
proud purposes of art: one of them, the origin of the Gothic Arch from the "high o'erarching
groves," is mentioned by Warburton, in his Divine Legation, and is a sublime lesson for besotted
man.

    [8] Magazine of Natural History, No.1.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

VIDOCQ.

[We have abridged one of the most striking chapters in the very extraordinary history of Vidocq;
premising that the interest of the adventure will compensate for the space it here occupies.]

