The inhabitants of the neighboring towns and villages flocked to these meetings in crowds,
at once to see the ceremonies, to be present when their relatives or friends assumed the habit,
to listen to the appeals of the Saint and to furnish to the friars the provisions of which
they might have need. All this is not without some analogy with the camp-meeting so dear to
Americans. As to the figures of several thousands of attendants given in the legends, and furnishing
even to a Franciscan, Father Papini, the occasion for pleasantries of doubtful taste, it is
perhaps not so surprising as might be supposed.[8]

These first meetings, to which all the Brothers eagerly hastened, held in the open air in the
presence of crowds come together from distant places, have then nothing in common with the
subsequent chapters-general, which were veritable conclaves attended by a small number of delegates,
and the majority of the work of which, done in secret, was concerned only with the affairs
of the Order.

During Francis's lifetime the purpose of these assemblies was essentially religious. Men attended
them not to talk business, or proceed to the nomination of the minister-general, but in mutual
communion to gain new strength from the joys, the example, and the sufferings of the other
brethren.[9]

The four years which followed the Whitsunday of 1216 form a stage in the evolution of the Umbrian
movement; that during which Francis was battling for autonomy. We find here pretty delicate
shades of distinction, which have been misunderstood by Church writers as much as by their
adversaries, for if Francis was particular not to put himself in the attitude of revolt, he
would not compromise his independence, and he felt with an exquisite divination that all the
privileges which the court of Rome could heap upon him were worth nothing in comparison with
liberty. Alas, he was soon forced to resign himself to these gilded bonds, against which he
never ceased to protest, even to his last sigh;[10] but to shut one's eyes to the moral violence
which the papacy did him in this matter is to condemn oneself to an entire misapprehension
of his work.

A glance over the collection of bulls addressed to the Franciscans suffices to show with what
ardor he struggled against favors so eagerly sought by the monastic orders.[11]

A great number of legendary anecdotes put Francis's disdain of privileges in the clearest light.
Even his dearest friends did not always understand his scruples.

    "Do you not see," they said to him one day, "that often the
    bishops do not permit us to preach, and make us remain several
    days without doing anything before we are permitted to proclaim
    the word of God? It would be better worth while to obtain for
    this end a privilege from the pope, and it would be for the good
    of souls."

    "I would first convert the prelates by humility and respect," he
    replied quickly; "for when they have seen us humble and
    respectful toward them, they themselves will beg us to preach
    and convert the people. As for me, I ask of God no privilege
    unless it be that I may have none, to be full of respect for all
    men, and to convert them, as our Rule ordains, more by our
    example than by our speech."[12]

The question whether Francis was right or wrong in his antipathy to the privileges of the curia
does not come within the domain of history; it is evident that this attitude could not long
continue; the Church knows only the faithful and rebels. But the noblest hearts often make
a stand at compromises of this kind; they desire that the future should grow out of the past
without convulsion and without a crisis.

The chapter of 1217 was notable for the definitive organization of the Franciscan missions.
Italy and the other countries were divided off into a certain number of provinces, having each
its provincial minister. Immediately upon his accession Honorius III. had sought to revive
the popular zeal for the crusades. He had not stopped at preaching it, but appealed to prophecies
which had proclaimed that under his pontificate the Holy Land would be reconquered.[13] The
renewal of fervor which ensued, and of which the rebound was felt as far as Germany, had a
profound influence on the Brothers Minor. This time Francis, perhaps from humility, did not
put himself at the head of the friars charged with a mission to Syria; for leader he gave them
the famous Elias, formerly at Florence, where he had had opportunity to show his high qualities.[14]

This Brother, who from this time appears in the foreground of this history, came from the most
humble ranks of society; the date and the circumstances of his entrance into the Order are
unknown, and hence conjecture has come to see in him that friend of the grotto who had been
Francis's confidant shortly before his decisive conversion. However this may be, in his youth
he had earned his living in Assisi, making mattresses and teaching a few children to read;
then he had spent some time in Bologna as scriptor; then suddenly we find him among the Brothers
Minor, charged with the most difficult missions.

His adversaries vie with one another in asserting that he was the finest mind of his century,
but unhappily it is very difficult, in the existing state of the documents, to pronounce as
to his actions; learned and energetic, eager to play the leading part in the work of the reformation
of religion, and having made his plan beforehand as to the proper mode of realizing it, he
made straight for his goal, half political, half religious. Full of admiration for Francis
and gratitude toward him, he desired to regulate and consolidate the movement for renovation.
In the inner Franciscan circle, where Leo, Ginepro, Egidio, and many others represent the spirit
of liberty, the religion of the humble and the simple, Elias represents the scientific and
ecclesiastical spirit, prudence and reason.

He had great success in Syria and received into the Order one of the disciples most dear to
Francis, Cæsar of Speyer, who later on was to make the conquest of all Southern Germany in
less than two years (1221-1223), and who in the end sealed with his blood his fidelity to the
strict observance, which he defended against the attacks of Brother Elias himself.[15]

Cæsar of Speyer offers a brilliant example of those suffering souls athirst for the ideal,
so numerous in the thirteenth century, who everywhere went up and down, seeking first in learning,
then in the religious life, that which should assuage the mysterious thirst which tortured
them. Disciple of the scholastic Conrad, he had felt himself overpowered with the desire to
reform the Church; while still a layman he had preached his ideas, not without some success,
since a certain number of ladies of Speyer had begun to lead a new life; but their husbands
disapproving, he was obliged to escape their vengeance by taking refuge at Paris, and thence
he went to the East, where in the preaching of the Brothers Minor he found again his hopes
and his dreams. This instance shows how general was the waiting condition of souls when the
Franciscan gospel blazed forth, and how its way had been everywhere prepared.

But it is time to return to the chapter of 1217: the friars who went to Germany under conduct
of Giovanni di Penna were far from having the success of Elias and his companions; they were
completely ignorant of the language of the country which they had undertaken to evangelize.
Perhaps Francis had not taken into account the fact that though Italian might, in case of need,
suffice in all the countries bathed by the Mediterranean, this could not be the case in Central
Europe.[16]

The lot of the party going to Hungary was not more happy. Very often it came to pass that the
missionaries were fain to give up their very garments in the effort to appease the peasants
and shepherds who maltreated them. But no less incapable of understanding what was said to
them than of making themselves understood, they were soon obliged to think of returning to
Italy. We may thank the Franciscan authors for preserving for us the memory of these checks,
and not attempting to picture the friars as suddenly knowing all languages by a divine inspiration,
as later on was so often related.[17]

Those who had been sent to Spain had also to undergo persecutions. This country, like the south
of France, was ravaged by heresy; but already at that time it was vigorously repressed. The
Franciscans, suspected of being false Catholics and therefore eagerly hunted out, found a refuge
with Queen Urraca of Portugal, who permitted them to establish themselves at Coimbra, Guimarraens,
Alenquero, and Lisbon.[18]

Francis himself made preparations for going to France.[19] This country had a peculiar charm
for him because of his fervent love of the Holy Sacrament. Perhaps also he was unwittingly
drawn toward this country to which he owed his name, the chivalrous dreams of his youth, all
of poetry, song, music, delicious dream that had come into his life.

Something of the emotion that thrilled through him on undertaking this new mission has passed
into the story of his biographers; one feels there the thrill at once sweet and agonizing,
the heart-throb of the brave knight who goes forth all harnessed in the early dawn to scan
the horizon, dreading the unknown and yet overflowing with joy, for he knows that the day will
be consecrated to love and to the right.

The Italian poet has given the one name of "pilgrimages of love" to the farings forth of chivalry
and the journeys undertaken by dreamers, artists, or saints to those parts of the earth which
forever mirror themselves before their imagination and remain their chosen fatherland.[20]
Such a pilgrimage as this was Francis undertaking.

    "Set forth," said he to the Brothers who accompanied him, "and
    walk two and two, humble and gentle, keeping silence until after
    tierce, praying to God in your hearts, carefully avoiding every
    vain or useless word. Meditate as much while on this journey as
    if you were shut up in a hermitage or in your cell, for wherever
    we are, wherever we go, we carry our cell with us; Brother body
    is our cell, and the soul is the hermit who dwells in it, there
    to pray to the Lord and to meditate."

Arrived at Florence he found there Cardinal Ugolini, sent by the pope as legate to Tuscany
to preach the crusade and take all needful measures for assuring its success.[21] Francis was
surely far from expecting the reception which the prelate gave him. Instead of encouraging
him, the cardinal urged him to give up his project.

    "I am not willing, my brother, that you should cross the
    mountains; there are many prelates who ask nothing better than
    to stir up difficulties for you with the court of Rome. But I
    and the other cardinals who love your Order desire to protect
    and aid you, on the condition, however, that you do not quit
    this province."

    "But, monsignor, it would be a great disgrace for me to send my
    brethren far away while I remained idly here, sharing none of
    the tribulations which they must undergo."

    "Wherefore, then, have you sent your brethren so far away,
    exposing them thus to starvation and all sorts of perils?"

    "Do you think," replied Francis warmly, and as if moved by
    prophetic inspiration, "that God raised up the Brothers for the
    sake of this country alone? Verily, I say unto you, God has
    raised them up for the awakening and the salvation of all men,
    and they shall win souls not only in the countries of those who
    believe, but also in the very midst of the infidels."[22]

The surprise and admiration which these words awoke in Ugolini were not enough to make him
change his mind. He insisted so strongly that Francis turned back to Portiuncula, the inspiration
of his work not even shaken. Who knows whether the joy which he would have felt in seeing France
did not confirm him in the idea that he ought to renounce this plan? Souls athirst with the
longing for sacrifice often have scruples such as these; they refuse the most lawful joys that
they may offer them to God. We cannot tell whether it was immediately after this interview
or not till the following year that Francis put Brother Pacifico at the head of the missionaries
sent into France.[23]

Pacifico, who was a poet of talent, had before his conversion been surnamed Prince of Poesy
and crowned at the capital by the emperor. One day while visiting a relative who was a nun
at San Severino in the March of Ancona, Francis also arrived at the monastery, and preached
with such a holy impetuosity that the poet felt himself pierced with the sword of which the
Bible speaks, which penetrates between the very joints and marrow, and discerns the thoughts
and intents of the heart.[24] On the morrow he assumed the habit and received his symbolical
surname.[25]

He was accompanied to France by Brother Agnello di Pisa, who was destined to be put at the
head of the first mission to England in 1224.[26]

Francis, on sending them forth, was far from dreaming that from this country, which exerted
such a fascination over him, was to come forth the influence which was to compromise his dream--that
Paris would be the destruction of Assisi; and yet the time was not very far distant; a few
years more and the Poverello would see a part of his spiritual family forgetting the humility
of their name, their origin, and their aspirations, to run after the ephemeral laurels of learning.

We have already seen that the habit of the Franciscans of this time was to make their abode
within easy reach of great cities; Pacifico and his companions established themselves at St.
Denis.[27] We have no particulars of their work; it was singularly fruitful, since it permitted
them a few years later to attack England with full success.

Francis passed the following year (1218) in evangelizing tours in Italy. It is naturally impossible
to follow him in these travels, the itinerary of which was fixed by his daily inspirations,
or by indications as fanciful as the one which had formerly determined his going to Sienna.
Bologna,[28] the Verna, the valley of Rieti, the Sacro-Speco of St. Benedict at Subiaco,[29]
Gaeta;[30] San Michele on Mount Gargano[31] perhaps received him at this time, but the notes
of his presence in these places are too sparse and vague to permit their being included in
any scheme of history.

It is very possible that he also paid a visit to Rome during this time; his communications
with Ugolini were much more frequent than is generally supposed. We must not permit the stories
of biographers to deceive us in this matter; it is a natural tendency to refer all that we
know of a man to three or four especially striking dates. We forget entire years of the life
of those whom we have known the best and loved the most and group our memories of them around
a few salient events which shine all the more brilliantly the deeper we make the surrounding
obscurity. The words of Jesus spoken on a hundred different occasions came at last to be formed
into a single discourse, the Sermon on the Mount. It is in such cases that criticism needs
to be delicate, to mingle a little divination with the heavy artillery of scientific argument.

The texts are sacred, but we must not make fetiches of them; notwithstanding St. Matthew, no
one to-day dreams of representing Jesus as uttering the Sermon on the Mount all at one time.
In the same way, in the narratives concerning the relations between St. Francis and Ugolini,
we find ourselves every moment shut up in no-thoroughfares, coming up against contradictory
indications, just so long as we try to refer everything to two or three meetings, as we are
at first led to do.

With a simple act of analysis these difficulties disappear and we find each of the different
narratives bringing us fragments which, being pieced together, furnish an organic story, living,
psychologically true.

From the moment at which we have now arrived, we must make a much larger place for Ugolini
than in the past; the struggle has definitively opened between the Franciscan ideal--chimerical,
perhaps, but sublime--and the ecclesiastical policy, to go on until the day when, half in humility,
half in discouragement, Francis, heartsick, abdicates the direction of his spiritual family.

Ugolini returned to Rome at the end of 1217. During the following winter his countersign is
found at the bottom of the most important bulls;[32] he devoted this time to the special study
of the question of the new orders, and summoned Francis before him. We have seen with what
frankness he had declared to him at Florence that many of the prelates would do anything to
discredit him with the pope.[33] It is evident the success of the Order, its methods, which
in spite of all protestations to the contrary seemed to savor of heresy, the independence of
Francis, who had scattered his friars in all the four corners of the globe without trying to
gain a confirmation of the verbal and entirely provisional authorization accorded him by Innocent
III.--all these things were calculated to startle the clergy.

Ugolini, who better than any one else knew Umbria, Tuscany, Emilia, the March of Ancona, all
those regions where the Franciscan preaching had been most successful, was able by himself
to judge of the power of the new movement and the imperious necessity of directing it; he felt
that the best way to allay the prejudices which the pope and the sacred college might have
against Francis was to present him before the curia.

Francis was at first much abashed at the thought of preaching before the Vicar of Jesus Christ,
but upon the entreaties of his protector he consented, and for greater security he learned
by heart what he had to say.

Ugolini himself was not entirely at ease as to the result of this step; Thomas of Celano pictures
him as devoured with anxiety; he was troubled about Francis, whose artless eloquence ran many
a risk in the halls of the Lateran Palace; he was also not without some more personal anxieties,
for the failure of his protégé might be most damaging to himself. He was in all the greater
anxiety when, on arriving at the feet of the pontiff, Francis forgot all he had intended to
say; but he frankly avowed it, and seeking a new discourse from the inspiration of the moment,
spoke with so much warmth and simplicity that the assembly was won.[34]

The biographers are mute as to the practical result of this audience. We are not to be surprised
at this, for they write with the sole purpose of edification. They wrote after the apotheosis
of their master, and would with very bad grace have dwelt upon the difficulties which he met
during the early years.[35]

The Holy See must have been greatly perplexed by this strange man, whose faith and humility
were evident, but whom it was impossible to teach ecclesiastical obedience.

St. Dominic happened to be in Rome at the same time,[36] and was overwhelmed with favors by
the pope. It is a matter of history that Innocent III. having asked him to choose one of the
Rules already approved by the Church, he had returned to his friars at Notre Dame de Prouille,
and after conferring with them had adopted that of St. Augustine; Honorius therefore was not
sparing of privileges for him. It is hardly possible that Ugolini did not try to use the influence
of his example with St. Francis.

The curia saw clearly that Dominic, whose Order barely comprised a few dozen members, was not
one of the moral powers of the time, but its sentiments toward him were by no means so mixed
as those it experienced with regard to Francis.

To unite the two Orders, to throw over the shoulders of the Dominicans the brown cassock of
the Poor Men of Assisi, and thus make a little of the popularity of the Brothers Minor to be
reflected upon them, to leave to the latter their name, their habit, and even a semblance of
their Rule, only completing it with that of St. Augustine, such a project would have been singularly
pleasing to Ugolini, and with Francis's humility would seem to have some chance of success.

One day Dominic by dint of pious insistance induced Francis to give him his cord, and immediately
girded himself with it. "Brother," said he, "I earnestly long that your Order and mine might
unite to form one sole and same institute[37] in the Church." But the Brother Minor wished
to remain as he was, and declined the proposition. So truly was he inspired with the needs
of his time and of the Church that less than three years after this Dominic was drawn by an
irresistible influence to transform his Order of Canons of St. Augustine into an order of mendicant
monks, whose constitutions were outlined upon those of the Franciscans.[38]

A few years later the Dominicans took, so to speak, their revenge, and obliged the Brothers
Minor to give learning a large place in their work. Thus, while hardly come to youth's estate,
the two religious families rivalled one another, impressed, influenced one another, yet never
so much so as to lose all traces of their origin--summed up for the one in poverty and lay
preaching, for the other in learning and the preaching of the clergy.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] The commencement of the great missions and the institution
       of provincial ministers is usually fixed either at 1217 or 1219,
       but both these dates present great difficulties. I confess that
       I do not understand the vehemence with which partisans of either
       side defend their opinions. The most important text is a passage
       in the 3 Soc., 62: Expletis itaque undecim annis ab inceptione
       religionis, et multiplicatis numero et merito fratribus, electi
       fuerant ministri, et missi cum aliquot fratribus quasi per
       universas mundi provincias in quibus fides catholica colitur et
       servatur. What does this expression, inceptio religionis,
       mean? At a first reading one unhesitatingly takes it to refer to
       the foundation of the Order, which occurred in April, 1209, by
       the reception of the first Brothers; but on adding eleven full
       years to this date we reach the summer of 1220. This is
       manifestly too late, for the 3 Soc. say that the brethren who
       went out were persecuted in most of the countries beyond the
       mountains, as being accredited by no pontifical letter; but the
       bull Cum dilecti, bears the date of June 11, 1219. We are thus
       led to think that the eleven years are not to be counted from
       the reception of the first Brothers, but from Francis's
       conversion, which the authors might well speak of as inceptio
       religionis, and 1206 + 11 = 1217. The use of this expression to
       designate conversion is not entirely without example.
       Glassberger says (An. fr., p. 9): Ordinem minorum incepit
       anno 1206. Those who admit 1219 are obliged (like the
       Bollandists, for example), to attribute an inaccuracy to the
       text of the 3 Soc., that of having counted eleven years as
       having passed when there had been only ten. We should notice
       that in the two other chronological indications given by the 3
       Soc. (27 and 62) they count from the conversion, that is from
       1206, as also Thomas of Celano, 88, 105, 119, 97, 88, 57, 55,
       21. Curiously, the Conformities reproduce the passage of the 3
       Soc. (118b, 1), but with the alteration: Nono anno ab
       inceptione religionis. Giordano di Giano opens the door to many
       scruples: Anno vero Domini 1219 et anno conversionis ejus
       decimo frater Franciscus ... misit fratres in Franciam, in
       Theutoniam, in Hungariam, in Hespaniam, Giord., 3. As a little
       later the same author properly harmonizes 1219 with the
       thirteenth year from Francis's conversion, everyone is in
       agreement in admitting that the passage cited needs correction;
       we have unfortunately only one manuscript of this chronicle.
       Glassberger, who doubtless had another before him, substitutes
       1217, but he may have drawn this date from another document. It
       is noteworthy that Brother Giordano gives as simultaneous the
       departure of the friars for Germany, Hungary, and France; but,
       as to the latter country, it certainly took place in 1217. So
       the Speculum, 44a.

       The chronicle of the xxiv. generals and Mark of Lisbon (Diola's
       ed., t. i., p. 82) holds also to 1217, so that, though not
       definitely established, it would appear that this date should be
       accepted until further information. Starting from slightly
       different premises, the learned editors of the Analecta arrive
       at the same conclusion (t. ii., pp. 25-36). Cf. Evers, Analecta
       ad Fr. Minorum historiam, Leipsic, 1882, 4to, pp. 7 and 11.
       That which appears to me decidedly to tip the balance in favor
       of 1217, is the fact that the missionary friars were persecuted
       because they had no document of legitimation; and in 1219 they
       would have had the bull Cum dilecti, from June 11th of that
       year. The Bollandists, who hold for 1219, have so clearly seen
       this argument that they have been obliged to deny the
       authenticity of the bull (or at least to suppose it wrongly
       dated). A. SS., p. 839.

   [2] Vide A. SS., p. 604. Cf. Angelo Clareno, Tribul. Archiv.,
       i., p. 559. A papa Innocentis fuit omnibus annuntiatum in
       concilio generali ... sicut sanctus vir fr. Leo scribit et fr.
       Johannes de Celano. These lines have not perhaps the
       significance which one would be led to give them at the first
       glance, their author having perhaps confounded consilium and
       consistorium. The Speculum, 20b says: Eam (Regulam
       Innocentius) approvabit et concessit et postea in consistorio
       omnibus annuntiavit. Labbé and
       Cossart: Sacrosancta concilia, Paris, 1672, t. xi., col. 165.

   [4] Eccl., 15 (An. franc., t. 1, p. 253): Innocentium in
       cujus obitu fuit presentialiter S. Franciscus.

   [5] 3 Soc., 61; cf. An. Perus., A. SS., p. 606f.

   [6] Thomas of Celano must be in error when he declares that
       Francis was not acquainted with Cardinal Ugolini before the
       visit which he made him at Florence (summer of 1217): Nondum
       alter alteri erat præcipua familiaritate conjunctus (1 Cel., 74
       and 75). The Franciscan biographer's purpose was not historic;
       chronological indications are given in profusion; what he seeks
       is the apta junctura. Tradition has preserved the memory of a
       chapter held at Portiuncula in presence of Ugolini during a stay
       of the curia at Perugia (Spec., 137b.; Fior., 18;
       Conform., 207a; 3 Soc., 61). But the curia did not come back
       to Perugia between 1216 and Francis's death. It is also to be
       noted that according to Angelo Clareno, Ugolini was with Francis
       in 1210, supporting him in the presence of Innocent III. Vide
       below, p. 413. Finally the bull Sacrosancta of December 9,
       1219, witnesses that already during his legation in Florence
       (1217) Ugolini was actually interesting himself for the
       Clarisses.

   [7] See, for example, the description of the chapter of 1221 by
       Brother Giordano. Giord., 16.

   [8] With regard to the figure of five thousand attendants given
       by Bonaventura (Bon., 59) Father Papini writes: Io non credo
       stato capace alcuno di dare ad intendere al S. Dottore simil
       fanfaluca, ne capace lui di crederla.

       ... In somma il numero quinque millia et ultra non è del Santo,
       incapace di scrivere una cosa tanto improbabile e relativamente
       impossibile. Storia di S. Fr., i., pp. 181 and 183. This
       figure, five thousand, is also indicated by Eccl., 6. All this
       may be explained and become possible by admitting the presence
       of the Brothers of Penitence, and it seems very difficult to
       contest it, since in the Order of the Humiliants, which much
       resembles that of the Brothers Minor (equally composed of three
       branches approved by three bulls given June, 1201), the
       chapters-general annually held were frequented by the brothers
       of the three Orders. Tiraboschi t. ii., p. 144. Cf. above, p.
       158.

   [9] Vide 2 Cel., 3, 121; Spec., 42b; 127b.

  [10] Præcipio firmiter per obedientiam fratribus universis quod
       ubicunque sunt, non audeant petere aliquam litteram in Curia
       Romana. Test. B. Fr.

  [11] A comparison with the Bullary of the Preaching Friars is
       especially instructive: from their first chapter at Notre Dame
       de Prouille, in 1216, they are about fifteen; we find there at
       this time absolutely nothing that can be compared to the
       Franciscan movement, which was already stirring up all Italy.
       But while the first bull in favor of the Franciscans bears the
       date of June 11, 1219, and the approbation properly so called
       that of November 29, 1223, we find Honorius already in the end
       of 1216 lavishing marks of affection upon the Dominicans;
       December 22, 1216, Religiosam vitam. Cf. Pressuti, I regesti,
       del Pontefice Onorio III., Roma, 1884, t. i., no. 175; same
       date; Nos attendentes, ibid., no. 176; January 21, 1217,
       gratiarum omnium, ib., no. 243. Vide 284, 1039, 1156, 1208. It
       is needless to continue this enumeration. Very much the same
       could be done for the other Orders; whence the conclusion that
       if the Brothers Minor alone are forgotten in this shower of
       favors, it is because they decidedly wished to be. It must be
       admitted that immediately upon Francis's death they made up for
       lost time.

  [12] The authenticity of this passage is put beyond doubt by
       Ubertino di Casal's citation. Archiv., iii., p. 53. Cf.
       Spec., 30a; Conform., 111b, 1; 118b, 1; Ubertino, Arbor
       vitæ cruc., iii., 3.

  [13] Burchardi chronicon ann. 1217, loc. cit., p. 377. See
       also the bulls indicated by Potthast, 5575, 5585-92.

  [14] Before 1217 the office of minister virtually existed,
       though its definitive institution dates only from 1217. Brother
       Bernardo in his mission to Bologna, for example (1212?),
       certainly held in some sort the office of minister.

  [15] Imprisoned by order of Elias, he died in consequence of
       blows given him one day when he was taking the air outside of
       his prison. Tribul., 24a.

  [16] Giord., 5 and 6; 3 Soc., 62.

  [17] Of Giovanni di Parma, Clareno, Anthony of Padua, etc.

  [18] Mark of Lisbon, t. i., p. 82. Cf. p. 79, t. ii., p. 86,
       Glassberger ann., 1217. An. fr., ii., pp. 9 ff.; Chron
       xxiv. gen., MS. of Assisi, no. 328, f^o 2b.

  [19] Spec., 44a.; Conform., 119a, 2; 135a; 181b, 1; 1 Cel.,
       74 and 75.

  [20] Cel., 3, 129. Diligebat Franciam ... volebat in ea mori.

  [21] V. bull of January 23, 1217, Tempus acceptabile,
       Potthast, no. 5430, given in Horoy, t. ii., col. 205 ff.; cf.
       Pressuti, i., p. 71. This bull and those following fix without
       question the time of the journey to Florence. Potthast, 5488,
       5487, and page 495.

  [22] It is superfluous to point out the error of the Bollandist
       text in the phrase Monuit (Cardinalis Franciscum) coeptum non
       perficere iter, where the non is omitted, A. SS., p. 704.
       Cf., p. 607 and 835, which has led Suysken into several other
       errors.

  [23] Bon., 51. Cf. Glassberger, ann. 1217; Spec., 45b.

  [24] Heb., iv., 12; 2 Cel., 3, 49; Bon., 50 and 51.

  [25] Brother Pacifico interests us [the French people]
       particularly as the first minister of the Order in France;
       information about him is abundant: Bon., 79; 2 Cel., 3, 63;
       Spec., 41b.: Conform., 38a, 1; 43a, 1; 71b; 173b, 1, and
       176; 2 Cel., 8, 27; Spec., 38b; Conform., 181b; 2 Cel., 3,
       76; Fior., 46; Conform., 70a. I do not indicate the general
       references found in Chevalier's Bibliography. The Miscellanea,
       t. ii. (1887), p. 158, contains a most precise and interesting
       column about him. Gregory IX. speaks of him in the bull Magna
       sicut dicitur of August 12, 1227. Sbaralea, Bull, fr., i., p.
       33 (Potthast, 8007). Thomas of Tuscany, socius of St.
       Bonaventura, knew him and speaks of him in his Gesta
       Imperatorum (Mon. germ. hist. script., t. 22, p. 492).

  [26] Eccl., 1; Conform., 113b, 1.

  [27] Toward 1224 the Brothers Minor desired to draw nearer and
       build a vast convent near the walls of Paris in the grounds
       called Vauvert, or Valvert (now the Luxembourg Garden), (Eccl.,
       10; cf. Top. hist. du vieux Paris, by Berty and Tisserand, t.
       iv., p. 70). In 1230 they received at Paris from the
       Benedictines of Saint-Germain-des-Prés a certain number of
       houses in parocchia SS. Cosmæ et Damiani infra muros domini
       regis prope portam de Gibardo (Chartularium Universitatis
       Parisiensis, no. 76. Cf. Topographie historique du vieux
       Paris; Région occid. de l'univ., p. 95; Félibien, Histoire de
       la ville de Paris, i., p. 115). Finally, St. Louis installed
       them in the celebrated Convent of the Cordeliers, the refectory
       of which still exists, transformed into the Dupuytren Museum.
       The Dominicans, who arrived in Paris September 12, 1217, went
       straight to the centre of the city, near the bishop's palace on
       the Ile de la Cité, and on August 6, 1218, were installed in
       the Convent of St. Jacques.

  [28] Fior., 27; Spec., 148b; Conform., 71a and 113a, 2;
       Bon., 182.

  [29] The traces of Francis's visit here are numerous. A Brother
       Eudes painted his portrait here.

  [30] Bon., 177.

  [31] Vide A. SS., pp. 855 and 856. Cf. 2 Cel., 3, 136.

  [32] Among others those of December 5, 1217, Potthast, 5629;
       February 8, March 30, April 7, 1218, Potthast, 5695, 5739, 5747.

  [33] 1 Cel., 74. O quanti maxime in principio cum hæc agerentur
       novellæ plantationi ordinis insidiabantur ut perderent. Cf. 2
       Cel., 1, 16. Videbat Franciscus luporum more sevire
       quamplures.

  [34] 1 Cel., 73 (cf. 2 Cel., 1, 17; Spec., 102a); 3 Soc., 64;
       Bon., 78. The fixing of this scene in the winter of 1217-1218
       seems hardly to be debatable; Giordano's account (14) in fact
       determines the date at which Ugolini became officially
       protector of the Order; it supposes earlier relations between
       Honorius, Francis, and Ugolini. We are therefore led to seek a
       date at which these three personages may have met in Rome, and
       we arrive thus at the period between December, 1217, and April,
       1218.

  [35] A word of Brother Giordano's opens the door to certain
       conjectures. "My lord," said Francis to Honorius III., in 1220,
       "you have given me many fathers (popes) give me a single one to
       whom I may turn with the affairs of my Order." (Giord., 14,
       Multos mihi papas dedisti da unum, ... etc.)

       Does not this suggest the idea that the pontiff had perhaps
       named a commission of cardinals to oversee the Brothers Minor?
       Its deliberations and the events to be related in the following
       chapter might have impelled him to issue the bull Cum dilecti
       of June 11, 1219, which was not an approbation properly so
       called, but a safe-conduct in favor of the Franciscans.

  [36] He took possession of St. Sabine on February 28, 1218.

  [37] 2 Cel., 3, 87. The literal meaning of the phrase is
       somewhat ambiguous. The text is: Vellem, frater Francisce, unam
       fieri religionem tuam et meam et in Ecclesia pari forma nos
       vivere. Spec. 27b. The echo of this attempt is found in
       Thierry d'Apolda, Vie de S. Dominique (A. SS., Augusti, t. i.,
       p. 572 d): S. Dominicus in oscula sancta ruens et sinceros
       amplexus, dixit: Tu es socius meus, tu curres pariter mecum,
       stemus simul, nullus adversarius prævalebit. Bernard of Besse
       says: B. Dominicus tanta B. Francisco devotione cohesit ut
       optatam ab eo cordam sub inferiori tunica devotissimi cingeret,
       cujus et suam Religionem unam velle fieri diceret, ipsumque pro
       sanctitate cæteris sequendem religiosis assereret. Turin MS.,
       102b.

  [38] At the chapter held at Bologna at Whitsunday, 1220. The
       bull Religiosam vitam (Privilege of Notre Dame de Prouille) of
       March 30, 1218, enumerates the possessions of the Dominicans.
       Ripolli, Bull. Præd., t. i., p. 6. Horoy, Honorii opera, t.
       ii., col. 684.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XIII

ST. DOMINIC AND ST. FRANCIS

The Egyptian Mission. Summer 1218-Autumn 1220

Art and poetry have done well in inseparably associating St. Dominic and St. Francis; the glory
of the first is only a reflection of that of the second, and it is in placing them side by
side that we succeed best in understanding the genius of the Poverello. If Francis is the man
of inspiration, Dominic is that of obedience to orders; one may say that his life was passed
on the road to Rome, whither he continually went to ask for instructions. His legend was therefore
very slow to be formed, although nothing forbade it to blossom freely; but neither the zeal
of Gregory IX. for his memory nor the learning of his disciples were able to do for the Hammer
of heretics that which the love of the people did for the Father of the poor. His legend has
the two defects which so soon weary the readers of hagiographical writings, when the question
is of the saints whose worship the Church has commanded.[1] It is encumbered with a spurious
supernaturalism, and with incidents borrowed right and left from earlier legends. The Italian
people, who hailed in Francis the angel of all their hopes, and who showed themselves so greedy
for his relics, did not so much as dream of taking up the corpse of the founder of the Order
of Preaching Friars, and allowed him to wait twelve years for the glories of canonization.[2]

We have already seen the efforts of Cardinal Ugolini to unite the two Orders, and the reasons
he had for this course. He went to the Whitsunday chapter-general which met at Portiuncula
(June 3, 1218), to which came also St. Dominic with several of his disciples. The ceremonial
of these solemnities appears to have been always about the same since 1216; the Brothers Minor
went in procession to meet the cardinal, who immediately dismounted from his horse and lavished
expressions of affection upon them. An altar was set up in the open air, at which he said mass,
Francis performing the functions of deacon.[3]

It is easy to imagine the emotion which overcame those present when in its beautiful setting
of the Umbrian landscape burst forth that part of the Pentecostal service, that most exciting,
the most apocalyptic of the whole Catholic liturgy, the anthem Alleluia, Alleluia, Emitte Spiritum
tuum et creabuntur, et renovabis faciem terræ. Alleluia,[4] does not this include the whole
Franciscan dream?

But what especially amazed Dominic was the absence of material cares. Francis had advised his
brethren not to disquiet themselves in any respect about food and drink; he knew by experience
that they might fearlessly trust all that to the love of the neighboring population. This want
of carefulness had greatly surprised Dominic, who thought it exaggerated; he was able to reassure
himself, when meal-time arrived, by seeing the inhabitants of the district hastening in crowds
to bring far larger supplies of provisions than were needed for the several thousands of friars,
and holding it an honor to wait upon them.

The joy of the Franciscans, the sympathy of the populace with them, the poverty of the huts
of Portiuncula, all this impressed him deeply; so much was he moved by it that in a burst of
enthusiasm he announced his resolution to embrace gospel poverty.[5]

Ugolini, though also moved, even to tears,[6] did not forget his former anxieties; the Order
was too numerous not to include a group of malcontents; a few friars who before their conversion
had studied in the universities began to condemn the extreme simplicity laid upon them as a
duty. To men no longer sustained by enthusiasm the short precepts of the Rule appeared a charter
all too insufficient for a vast association; they turned with envy toward the monumental abbeys
of the Benedictines, the regular Canons, the Cistercians, and toward the ancient monastic legislations.
They had no difficulty in perceiving in Ugolini a powerful ally, nor in confiding their observations
to him.

The latter deemed the propitious moment arrived, and in a private conversation with Francis
made a few suggestions: Ought he not give to his disciples, especially to the educated among
them, a greater share of the burdens? consult them, gain inspiration from their views? was
there not room to profit by the experience of the older orders? Though all this was said casually
and with the greatest possible tact, Francis felt himself wounded to the quick, and without
answering he drew the cardinal to the very midst of the chapter.

"My brothers," said he with fire, "the Lord has called me into the ways of simplicity and humility.
In them he has shown me the truth for myself and for those who desire to believe and follow
me; do not, then, come speaking to me of the Rule of St. Benedict, of St. Augustine, of St.
Bernard, or of any other, but solely of that which God in his mercy has seen fit to show to
me, and of which he has told me that he would, by its means, make a new covenant with the world,
and he does not will that we should have any other. But by your learning and your wisdom God
will bring you to confusion. For I am persuaded that God will chastise you; whether you will
or no you will be forced to come to repentance, and nothing will remain for you but confusion."[7]

This warmth in defending and affirming his ideas profoundly astonished Ugolini, who added not
a word. As to Dominic, what he had just seen at Portiuncula was to him a revelation. He felt,
indeed, that his zeal for the Church could not be greater, but he also perceived that he could
serve her with more success by certain changes in his weapons.

Ugolini no doubt only encouraged him in this view, and Dominic, beset with new anxieties, set
out a few months later for Spain. The intensity of the crisis through which he passed has not
been sufficiently noticed; the religious writers recount at length his sojourn in the grotto
of Segovia, but they see only the ascetic practices, the prayers, the genuflexions, and do
not think of looking for the cause of all this. From this epoch it might be said that he was
unceasingly occupied in copying Francis, if the word had not a somewhat displeasing sense.
Arrived at Segovia he follows the example of the Brothers Minor, founds a hermitage in the
outskirts of the city, hidden among the rocks which overlook the town, and thence he descends
from time to time to preach to the people. The transformation in his mode of life was so evident
that several of his companions rebelled and refused to follow him in the new way.

Popular sentiment has at times its intuitions; a legend grew up around this grotto of Segovia,
and it was said that St. Dominic there received the stigmata. Is there not here an unconscious
effort to translate into an image within the comprehension of all, that which actually took
place in this cave of the Sierra da Guaderrama?[8]

Thus St. Dominic also arrived at the poverty of the gospel, but the road by which he reached
it was different indeed from that which St. Francis had followed; while the latter had soared
to it as on wings, had seen in it the final emancipation from all the anxieties which debase
this life, St. Dominic considered it only as a means; it was for him one more weapon in the
arsenal of the host charged with the defence of the Church. We must not see in this a mere
vulgar calculation; his admiration for him whom he thus imitated and followed afar off was
sincere and profound, but genius is not to be copied. This sacred malady was not his; he has
transmitted to his sons a sound and robust blood, thanks to which they have known nothing of
those paroxysms of hot fever, those lofty flights, those sudden returns which make the story
of the Franciscans the story of the most tempest-tossed society which the world has ever known,
in which glorious chapters are mingled with pages trivial and grotesque, sometimes even coarse.

At the chapter of 1218 Francis had other causes for sadness than the murmurs of a group of
malcontents; the missionaries sent out the year before to Germany and Hungary had returned
completely discouraged. The account of the sufferings they had endured produced so great an
effect that from that time many of the friars added to their prayers the formula: "Lord preserve
us from the heresy of the Lombards and the ferocity of the Germans."[9]

This explains how Ugolini at last succeeded in convincing Francis of his duty to take the necessary
measures no longer to expose the friars to be hunted down as heretics. It was decided that
at the end of the next chapter the missionaries should be armed with a papal brief, which should
serve them as ecclesiastical passport. Here is the translation of this document:

    Honorius, bishop, servant of the servants of God, to the
    archbishops, bishops, abbots, deacons, archdeacons, and other
    ecclesiastical superiors, salutation and the apostolic blessing.

    Our dear son, brother Francis, and his companions of the life
    and the Order of the Brothers Minor, having renounced the
    vanities of this world to choose a mode of life which has
    merited the approval of the Roman Church, and to go out after
    the example of the Apostles to cast in various regions the seed
    of the word of God, we pray and exhort you by these apostolic
    letters to receive as good catholics the friars of the above
    mentioned society, bearers of these presents, warning you to be
    favorable to them and treat them with kindness for the honor of
    God and out of consideration for us.

    Given (at Rieti) this third day of the ides of June (June 11,
    1219), in the third year of our pontificate.[10]

It is evident that this bull was calculated to avoid awakening Francis's susceptibilities.
To understand precisely in what it differs from the first letters usually accredited to new
Orders it is necessary to compare it with them; that which had instituted the Dominicans had
been, like the others, a veritable privilege;[11] here there is nothing of the kind.

The assembly which was opened at Whitsunday of 1219 (May 26) was of extreme importance.[12]
It closed the series of those primitive chapters in which the inspiration and fancy of Francis
were given free course. Those which followed, presided over by the vicars, have neither the
same cheerfulness nor the same charm; the crude glare of full day has driven away the hues
of dawn and the indescribable ardors of nature at its awakening.

The summer of 1219 was the epoch fixed by Honorius III. for making a new effort in the East,
and directing upon Egypt all the forces of the Crusaders.[13] Francis thought the moment arrived
for realizing the project which he had not been able to execute in 1212. Strangely enough,
Ugolini who, two years before had hindered his going to France, now left him in entire liberty
to carry out this new expedition.[14] Several authors have deemed that Francis, having found
in him a true protector, felt himself reassured as to the future of the Order; he might indeed
have thought thus, but the history of the troubles which burst out immediately after his departure,
the astounding story of the kind reception given by the court of Rome to some meddlers who
took the opportunity of his absence to imperil his Order, would suffice to show how much the
Church was embarrassed by him, and with what ardor she longed for the transformation of his
work. We shall find later on the detailed account of these facts.

It appears that a Romagnol brother Christopher was at this same chapter nominated provincial
of Gascony; he lived there after the customs of the early Franciscans, working with his hands,
living in a narrow cell made of the boughs of trees and potter's earth.[15]

Egidio set out for Tunis with a few friars, but a great disappointment awaited them there;
the Christians of this country, in the fear of being compromised by their missionary zeal,
hurried them into a boat and constrained them to recross the sea.[16]

If the date of 1219 for these two missions has little other basis than conjecture, the same
is not the case as to the departure of the friars who went to Spain and Morocco. The discovery
has recently been made of the account of their last preachings and of their tragic death, made
by an eye-witness.[17] This document is all the more precious because it confirms the general
lines of the much longer account given by Mark of Lisbon. It would be out of place to give
a summary of it here, because it but very indirectly concerns the life of St. Francis, but
we must note that these acta have beyond their historic value a truly remarkable psychological--one
must almost say pathological--significance; never was the mania for martyrdom better characterized
than in these long pages, where we see the friars forcing the Mahometans to pursue them and
make them win the heavenly palm. The forbearance which Miramolin as well as his fellow religionists
at first show gives an idea of the civilization and the good qualities of these infidels, all
the higher that very different sentiments would be natural in the vanquished ones of the plains
of Tolosa.

It is impossible to call by the name of sermons the collections of rude apostrophes which the
missionaries addressed to those whom they wished to convert; at this paroxysm the thirst for
martyrdom becomes the madness of suicide. Is this to say that friars Bernard, Pietro, Adjutus,
Accurso, and Otho have no right to the admiration and worship with which they have been surrounded?
Who would dare say so? Is not devotion always blind? That a furrow should be fecund it must
have blood, it must have tears, such tears as St. Augustine has called the blood of the soul.
Ah, it is a great mistake to immolate oneself, for the blood of a single man will not save
the world nor even a nation; but it is a still greater mistake not to immolate oneself, for
then one lets others be lost, and is oneself lost first of all.

I greet you, therefore, Martyrs of Morocco; you do not regret your madness, I am sure, and
if ever some righteous pedant gone astray in the groves of paradise undertakes to demonstrate
to you that it would have been better worth while to remain in your own country, and found
a worthy family of virtuous laborers, I fancy that Miramolin, there become your best friend,
will take the trouble to refute him.

You were mad, but I envy such madness, for you felt that the essential thing in this world
is not to serve this ideal or that one, but with all one's soul to serve the ideal which one
has chosen.

When, a few months after, the story of their glorious end arrived at Assisi, Francis discerned
a feeling of pride among his companions and reproached them in lively terms; he who would so
have envied the lot of the martyrs felt himself humbled because God had not judged him worthy
to share it. As the story was mingled with some words of eulogy of the founder of the Order,
he forbade the further reading of it.[18]

Immediately after the chapter he had himself undertaken a mission of the same kind as he had
confided to the Brothers of Morocco, but he had proceeded in it in an entirely different manner:
his was not the blind zeal which courts death in a sort of frenzy and forgets all the rest;
perhaps he already felt that the persistent effort after the better, the continual immolation
of self for truth, is the martyrdom of the strong.

This expedition, which lasted more than a year, is mentioned by the biographers in a few lines.[19]
Happily we have a number of other papers regarding it; but their silence suffices to prove
the sincerity of the primitive Franciscan authors; if they had wanted to amplify the deeds
of their subject, where could they have found an easier opportunity or a more marvellous theme?
Francis quitted Portiuncula in the middle of June and went to Ancona, whence the Crusaders
were to set sail for Egypt on St. John's Day (June 24th).

Many friars joined him--a fact which was not without its inconveniences for a journey by sea,
where they were obliged to depend upon the charity of the owners of the boats, or of their
fellow-travellers.

We can understand Francis's embarrassment on arriving at Ancona and finding himself obliged
to leave behind a number of those who so earnestly longed to go with him. The Conformities
relate here an incident for which we might desire an earlier authority, but which is certainly
very like Francis; he led all his friends to the port and explained to them his perplexities.
"The people of the boat," he told them, "refuse to take us all, and I have not the courage
to make choice among you; you might think that I do not love you all alike; let us then try
to learn the will of God." And he called a child who was playing close by, and the little one,
charmed to take the part of Providence put upon him, pointed out with his finger the eleven
friars who were to set sail.[20]

We do not know what itinerary they followed. A single incident of the journey has come down
to us: that of the chastisement inflicted in the isle of Cyprus on Brother Barbaro, who had
been guilty of the fault which the master detested above all others--evil-speaking. He was
implacable with regard to the looseness of language so customary among pious folk, and which
often made a hell of religious houses apparently the most peaceful. The offence this time appeared
to him the more grave for having been uttered in the presence of a stranger, a knight of that
district. The latter was stupefied on hearing Francis command the guilty one to eat a lump
of ass's dung which lay there, adding: "The mouth which has distilled the venom of hatred against
my brother must eat this excrement." Such indignation, no less than the obedience of the unhappy
offender, filled him with admiration.[21]

It is very probable, as Wadding has supposed, that the missionaries debarked at St. Jean d'Acre.
They arrived there about the middle of July.[22] In the environs of this city, doubtless, Brother
Elias had been established for one or two years. Francis there told off a few of his companions,
whom he sent to preach in divers directions, and a few days afterward he himself set out for
Egypt, where all the efforts of the Crusaders were concentrated upon Damietta.

From the first he was heart-broken with the moral condition of the Christian army. Notwithstanding
the presence of numerous prelates and of the apostolic legate, it was disorganized for want
of discipline. He was so affected by this that when there was talk of battle he felt it his
duty to advise against it, predicting that the Christians would infallibly be beaten. No one
heeded him, and on August 29th the Crusaders, having attacked the Saracens, were terribly routed.[23]

His predictions won him a marvellous success. It must be owned that the ground was better prepared
than any other to receive the new seed; not surely that piety was alive there, but in this
mass of men come together from every corner of Europe, the troubled, the seers, the enlightened
ones, those who thirsted for righteousness and truth, were elbowed by rascals, adventurers,
those who were greedy for gold and plunder, capable of much good or much evil, the sport of
fleeting impulses, loosed from the bonds of the family, of property, of the habits which usually
twine themselves about man's will, and only by exception permit a complete change in his manner
of life; those among them who were sincere and had come there with generous purposes were,
so to speak, predestined to enter the peaceful army of the Brothers Minor. Francis was to win
in this mission fellow-laborers who would assure the success of his work in the countries of
northern Europe.

Jacques de Vitry, in a letter to friends written a few days later, thus describes the impression
produced on him by Francis:

    "I announce to you that Master Reynier, Prior of St. Michael,
    has entered the Order of the Brothers Minor, an Order which is
    multiplying rapidly on all sides, because it imitates the
    primitive Church and follows the life of the Apostles in
    everything. The master of these Brothers is named Brother
    Francis; he is so lovable that he is venerated by everyone.
    Having come into our army, he has not been afraid, in his zeal
    for the faith, to go to that of our enemies. For days together
    he announced the word of God to the Saracens, but with little
    success; then the sultan, King of Egypt, asked him in secret to
    entreat God to reveal to him, by some miracle, which is the best
    religion. Colin, the Englishman, our clerk, has entered the same
    Order, as also two others of our companions, Michael and Dom
    Matthew, to whom I had given the rectorship of the Sainte
    Chapelle. Cantor and Henry have done the same, and still others
    whose names I have forgotten."[24]

The long and enthusiastic chapter which the same author gives to the Brothers Minor in his
great work on the Occident is too diffuse to find a place here. It is a living and accurate
picture of the early times of the Order; in it Francis's sermon before the sultan is again
related. It was written at a period when the friars had still neither monasteries nor churches,
and when the chapters were held once or twice a year; this gives us a date anterior to 1223,
and probably even before 1221. We have here, therefore, a verification of the narratives of
Thomas of Celano and the Three Companions, and they find in it their perfect confirmation.

As to the interviews between Francis and the sultan, it is prudent to keep to the narratives
of Jacques de Vitry and William of Tyre.[25] Although the latter wrote at a comparatively late
date (between 1275 and 1295), he followed a truly historic method, and founded his work on
authentic documents; we see that he knows no more than Jacques de Vitry of the proposal said
to have been made by Francis to pass through a fire if the priests of Mahomet would do as much,
intending so to establish the superiority of Christianity.

We know how little such an appeal to signs is characteristic of St. Francis. Perhaps the story,
which comes from Bonaventura, is born of a misconception. The sultan, like a new Pharaoh, may
have laid it upon the strange preacher to prove his mission by miracles. However this may be,
Francis and his companions were treated with great consideration, a fact the more meritorious
that hostilities were then at their height.

Returned to the Crusading camp, they remained there until after the taking of Damietta (November
5, 1219). This time the Christians were victorious, but perhaps the heart of the gospel man
bled more for this victory than for the defeat of August 29th. The shocking condition of the
city, which the victors found piled with heaps of dead bodies, the quarrels over the sharing
of booty, the sale of the wretched creatures who had not succumbed to the pestilence,[26] all
these scenes of terror, cruelty, greed, caused him profound horror. The "human beast" was let
loose, the apostle's voice could no more make itself heard in the midst of the savage clamor
than that of a life-saver over a raging ocean.

He set out for Syria[27] and the Holy Places. How gladly would we follow him in this pilgrimage,
accompany him in thought through Judea and Galilee, to Bethlehem, to Nazareth, to Gethsemane!
What was said to him by the stable where the Son of Mary was born, the workshop where he toiled,
the olive-tree where he accepted the bitter cup? Alas! the documents here suddenly fail us.
Setting out from Damietta very shortly after the siege (November 5, 1219) he may easily have
been at Bethlehem by Christmas. But we know nothing, absolutely nothing, except that his sojourn
was more prolonged than had been expected.

Some of the Brothers who were present at Portiuncula at the chapter-general of 1220 (Whitsunday,
May 17th) had time enough to go to Syria and still find Francis there;[28] they could hardly
have arrived much earlier than the end of June. What had he been doing those eight months?
Why had he not gone home to preside at the chapter? Had he been ill?[29] Had he been belated
by some mission? Our information is too slight to permit us even to venture upon conjecture.

Angelo Clareno relates that the Sultan of Egypt, touched by his preaching, gave command that
he and all his friars should have free access to the Holy Sepulchre without the payment of
any tribute.[30]

Bartholomew of Pisa on his part says incidentally that Francis, having gone to preach in Antioch
and its environs, the Benedictines of the Abbey of the Black Mountain,[31] eight miles from
that city, joined the Order in a body, and gave up all their property to the Patriarch.

These indications are meagre and isolated indeed, and the second is to be accepted only with
reserve. On the other hand, we have detailed information of what went on in Italy during Francis's
absence. Brother Giordano's chronicle, recently discovered and published, throws all the light
that could be desired upon a plot laid against Francis by the very persons whom he had commissioned
to take his place at Portiuncula, and this, if not with the connivance of Rome and the cardinal
protector, at least without their opposition. These events had indeed been narrated by Angelo
Clareno, but the undisguised feeling which breathes through all his writings and their lack
of accuracy had sufficed with careful critics to leave them in doubt. How could it be supposed
that in the very lifetime of St. Francis the vicars whom he had instituted could take advantage
of his absence to overthrow his work? How could it be that the pope, who during this period
was sojourning at Rieti, how that Ugolini, who was still nearer, did not impose silence on
these agitators?[32]

Now that all the facts come anew to light, not in an oratorical and impassioned account, but
brief, precise, cutting, dated, with every appearance of notes taken day by day, we must perforce
yield to evidence.

Does this give us reason clamorously to condemn Ugolino and the pope? I do not think so. They
played a part which is not to their honor, but their intentions were evidently excellent. If
the famous aphorism that the end justifies the means is criminal where one examines his own
conduct, it becomes the first duty in judging that of others. Here are the facts:

On July 25th, about one month after Francis's departure for Syria, Ugolini, who was at Perugia,
laid upon the Clarisses of Monticelli (Florence), Sienna, Perugia, and Lucca that which his
friend had so obstinately refused for the friars, the Benedictine Rule.[33]

At the same time, St. Dominic, returning from Spain full of new ardor after his retreat in
the grotto of Segovia, and fully decided to adopt for his Order the rule of poverty, was strongly
encouraged in this purpose and overwhelmed with favors.[34] Honorius III. saw in him the providential
man of the time, the reformer of the monastic Orders; he showed him unusual attentions, going
so far, for example, as to transfer to him a group of monks belonging to other Orders, whom
he appointed to act as Dominic's lieutenants on the preaching tours which he believed it to
be his duty to undertake, and to serve, under his direction, an apprenticeship in popular preaching.[35]

That Ugolini was the inspiration of all this, the bulls are here to witness. His ruling purpose
at that time was so clearly to direct the two new Orders that he chose a domicile with this
end in view, and we find him continually either at Perugia--that is to say, within three leagues
of Portiuncula--or at Bologna, the stronghold of the Dominicans.

It now becomes manifest that just as the fraternity instituted by Francis was truly the fruit
of his body, flesh of his flesh, so does the Order of the Preaching Friars emanate from the
papacy, and St. Dominic is only its putative father. This character is expressed in one word
by one of the most authoritative of contemporary annalists, Burchard of Ursperg ([Cross] 1226).
"The pope," he says, "instituted and confirmed the Order of the Preachers."[36]

Francis on his journey in the Orient had taken for special companion a friar whom we have not
yet met, Pietro di Catana or dei Cattani. Was he a native of the town of Catana? There is no
precise indication of it. It appears more probable that he belonged to the noble family dei
Cattani, already known to Francis, and of which Orlando, Count of Chiusi in Casentino, who
gave him the Verna, was a member. However that may be, we must not confound him with the Brother
Pietro who assumed the habit in 1209, at the same time with Bernardo of Quintavallo, and died
shortly afterward. Tradition, in reducing these two men to a single personage, was influenced
not merely by the similarity of the names, but also by the very natural desire to increase
the prestige of one who in 1220-1221 was to play an important part in the direction of the
Order.[37]

At the time of his departure for the East Francis had left two vicars in his place, the Brothers
Matteo of Narni and Gregorio of Naples. The former was especially charged to remain at Portiuncula
to admit postulants;[38] Gregorio of Naples, on the other hand, was to pass through Italy to
console the Brothers.[39]

The two vicars began at once to overturn everything. It is inexplicable how men still under
the influence of their first fervor for a Rule which in the plenitude of their liberty they
had promised to obey could have dreamed of such innovations if they had not been urged on and
upheld by those in high places. To alleviate the vow of poverty and to multiply observances
were the two points toward which their efforts were bent.

In appearance it was a trifling matter, in reality it was much, for it was the first movement
of the old spirit against the new. It was the effort of men who unconsciously, I am willing
to think, made religion an affair of rite and observance, instead of seeing in it, like St.
Francis, the conquest of the liberty which makes us free in all things, and leads each soul
to obey that divine and mysterious power which the flowers of the fields adore, which the birds
of the air bless, which the symphony of the stars praises, and which Jesus of Nazareth called
Abba, that is to say, Father.

The first Rule was excessively simple in the matter of fasts. The friars were to abstain from
meat on Wednesdays and Fridays; they might add Mondays and Saturdays, but only on Francis's
special authorization. The vicars and their adherents complicated this rule in a surprising
manner. At the chapter-general held in Francis's absence (May 17, 1220), they decided, first,
that in times of feasting the friars were not to provide meat, but if it were offered to them
spontaneously they were to eat it; second, that all should fast on Mondays as well as Wednesdays
and Fridays; third, that on Mondays and Saturdays they should abstain from milk products unless
by chance the adherents of the Order brought some to them.[40]

These beginnings bear witness also to an effort to imitate the ancient Orders, not without
the vague hope that they would be substituted for them. Brother Giordano has preserved to us
only this decision of the chapter of 1220, but the expressions of which he makes use sufficiently
prove that it was far from being the only one, and that the malcontents had desired, as in
the chapters of Citeaux and Monte Cassino, to put forth veritable constitutions.

These modifications of the Rule did not pass, however, without arousing the indignation of
a part of the chapter; a lay brother made himself their eager messenger, and set out for the
East to entreat Francis to return without delay, to take the measures called for by the circumstances.

There were also other causes of disquiet. Brother Philip, a Zealot of the Clarisses, had made
haste to secure for them from Ugolini the privileges which had already been under consideration.[41]

A certain Brother Giovanni di Conpello[42] had gathered together a great number of lepers of
both sexes, and written a Rule, intending to form with them a new Order. He had afterward presented
himself before the supreme pontiff with a train of these unfortunates to obtain his approbation.

Many other distressing symptoms, upon which Brother Giordano does not dwell, had manifested
themselves. The report of Francis's death had even been spread abroad, so that the whole Order
was disturbed, divided, and in the greatest peril. The dark presentiments which Francis seems
to have had were exceeded by the reality.[43] The messenger who brought him the sad news found
him in Syria, probably at St. Jean d'Acre. He at once embarked with Elias, Pietro di Catana,
Cæsar of Speyer, and a few others, and returned to Italy in a vessel bound for Venice, where
he might easily arrive toward the end of July.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] One proof of the obscurity in which Dominic remained so long
       as Rome did not apotheosize him, is that Jacques de Vitry, who
       consecrates a whole chapter of his Historia Occidentalis to
       the Preaching Friars (27, p. 333) does not even name the
       founder. This is the more significant since a few pages farther
       on, the chapter given to the Brothers Minor is almost entirely
       filled with the person of St. Francis. This silence about St.
       Dominic has been remarked and taken up by Moschus, who finds no
       way to explain it. Vide Vitam J. de Vitriaco, at the head of
       the Douai edition of 1597.

   [2] Francis, who died in 1226, is canonized in 1228; Anthony of
       Padua, 1231 and 1233; Elisabeth of Thuringia, 1231 and 1235;
       Dominic, 1221 and 1234.

   [3] 3 Soc., 61.

   [5] 2 Cel., 3. 87; Spec., 132b; Conform., 207a, 112a;
       Fior., 18. The historians of St. Dominic have not received
       these details kindly, but an incontestable point gained from
       diplomatic documents is that in 1218 Dominic, at Rome, procured
       privileges in which the properties of his Order were indicated,
       and that in 1220 he led his friars to profess poverty.

   [6] 2 Cel., 3, 9; Spec., 17a.

   [7] Spec., 49a; Tribul., Laur. MS., 11a-12b; Spec., 183a;
       Conform., 135b 1.

   [8] The principal sources are indicated in A. SS., Augusti, t.
       i., pp. 470 ff.

   [9] Giord., 18; 3 Soc., 62.

  [10] Sbaralea, Bull. fr., t. i, p. 2; Potthast, 6081: Wadding,
       ann. 1219, No. 28, indicates the works where the text may be
       found. Cf. A. SS., p. 839.

  [11] The title sufficiently indicated the contents: Domenico
       priori S. Romani tolosani ejusque fratribus, eos in protectionem
       recipit eorumque Ordinem cum bonis et privilegiis confirmat.
       Religiosam vitam: December 22, 1216; Pressuti, t. i., 175,
       text in Horoy t. ii., col. 141-144.

  [12] Vide A. SS., pp. 608 ff. and 838 ff.

  [13] Vide Bull Multi divinæ of August 13, 1218. Horoy, t.
       iii., col. 12; Potthast, 5891.

  [14] The contradiction is so striking that the Bollandists have
       made of it the principal argument for defending the error in
       their manuscript (1 Cel., 75), and insisting in the face of, and
       against everything that Francis had taken that journey. A. SS.,
       607.

  [15] He died at Cahors, October 31, 1272. His legend is found in
       MS. Riccardi, 279, f^o. 69a. Incipit vita f. Christophori quam
       compilavit fr. Bernardus de Bessa custodiæ Caturcensis: Quasi
       vas auri solidum. Cf. Mark of Lisbon, t. ii., pp. 106-113, t.
       iii., p. 212, and Glassberger, An. fr., t. ii., p. 14.

  [16] A. SS., Aprilis, t. iii., p. 224; Conform., 118b, 1; 54a;
       Mark of Lisbon, t. ii., p. 1--Brother Luke had been sent to
       Constantinople, in 1219, at latest. Vide Constitutus of
       December 9, 1220. Sbaralea, Bull. fr., t. i., p. 6; Potthast,
       6431.

  [17] We owe to M. Müller (Anfänge, p. 207) the honor of this
       publication, copied from a manuscript of the Cottoniana.

  [18] Giord., 8.

  [19] 1 Cel., 57; Bon., 133-138; 154 and 155; 2 Cel., 2, 2;
       Conform., 113b, 2; 114a, 2; Spec., 55b; Fior., 24.

  [20] Conform., 113b, 2; cf. A. SS., p. 611.

  [21] 2 Cel., 3, 92; Spec., 30b. Cf. 2 Cel., 3, 115.
       Conform., 142b, 1. This incident may possibly have taken place
       on the return.

  [22] With the facilities of that period the voyage required from
       twenty to thirty days. The diarium of a similar passage may be
       found in Huillard-Bréholles, Hist. Dipl., t. i., 898-901. Cf.
       Ibid., Introd., p. cccxxxi.

  [23] 2 Cel., 22; Bon 154, 155; cf. A. SS., p. 612.

  [24] Jacques de Vitry speaks only incidentally of Francis here
       in the midst of salutations; from the critical point of view
       this only enhances the value of his words. See the Study of the
       Sources, p. 428.

  [25] Vide below, the Study of the Sources, p. 430.

  [26] All this is related at length by Jacques de Vitry.

  [27] "Cil hom qui comença l'ordre des Frères Mineurs, si ot nom
       frère François ... vint en l'ost de Damiate, e i fist moult de
       bien, et demora tant que la ville fut prise. Il vit le mal et le
       péché qui comença à croistre entre les gens de l'ost, si li
       desplot, par quoi il s'en parti, e fu une pièce en Surie, et
       puis s'en rala en son pais." Historiens des Croisades, ii.
       L'Est de Eracles Empereur, liv. xxxii., chap. xv. Cf. Sanuto;
       Secreta fid. cruc., lib. iii., p. xi., cap. 8, in Bongars.

  [28] Giord., Chron., 11-14.

  [29] The episode of Brother Leonard's complaints, related below,
       gives some probability to this hypothesis.

  [30] Tribul., Laur. MS., 9b. Cf. 10b: Sepulcro Domini
       visitato festinat ad Christianorum terram.

  [31] Upon this monastery see a letter ad familiares of Jacques
       de Vitry, written in 1216 and published in 1847 by Baron Jules
       de St. Genois in t. xiii. of the Mémoires de l'Académie royale
       des sciences et des beaux arts de Bruxelles (1849). Conform.,
       106b, 2; 114a, 2; Spec., 184.

  [32] A. SS., pp. 619-620, 848, 851, 638.

  [33] Vide Bull Sacrosancta of December 9, 1219. Cf. those of
       September 19, 1222; Sbaralea, i., p. 3, 11 ff.; Potthast, 6179,
       6879a, b, c.

  [34] Vide Potthast, 6155, 6177, 6184, 6199, 6214, 6217, 6218,
       6220, 6246. See also Chartularium Universitatis Par., t. i.,
       487.

  [35] Bull Quia qui seminant of May 12, 1220. Ripalli, Bul.
       Præd., t. i., p. 10 (Potthast, 6249).

  [36] Mon. Germ. hist. Script., t. 23, p. 376. This passage is
       of extreme importance because it sums up in a few lines the
       ecclesiastical policy of Honorius III. After speaking of the
       perils with which the Humiliati threatened the Church,
       Burchard adds: Quæ volens corrigere dominus papa ordinem
       Predicatorum instituit et confirmavit. Now these Humiliati
       were an approved Order. But Burchard, while classing them with
       heretics beside the Poor Men of Lyons, expresses in a word the
       sentiments of the papacy toward them; it had for them an
       invincible repugnance, and not wishing to strike them directly
       it sought a side issue. Similar tactics were followed with
       regard to the Brothers Minor, with that overplus of caution
       which the prodigious success of the Order inspired. It all
       became useless when in 1221 Brother Elias became Francis's
       vicar, and especially when, after the latter's death, he had all
       the liberty necessary for directing the Order according to the
       views of Ugolini, now become Gregory IX.

  [37] 1 Cel., 25; cf. A. SS., p. 581. Pietro di Catana had the
       title of doctor of laws, Giord., 11, which entirely disagrees
       with what is related of Brother Pietro, 3 Soc., 28 and 29. Cf.
       Bon., 28 and 29; Spec., 5b; Fior., 2; Conform., 47; 52b,
       2; Petrus vir litteratus erat et nobilis, Giord., 12.

  [38] We know nothing more of him except that after his death he
       had the gift of miracles. Giord., 11; Conform., 62a, 1.

  [39] He was not an ordinary man; a remarkable administrator and
       orator (Eccl., 6), he was minister in France before 1224 and
       again in 1240, thanks to the zeal with which he had adopted the
       ideas of Brother Elias. He was nephew of Gregory IX., which
       throws some light upon the practices which have just been
       described. After having been swept away in Elias's disgrace and
       condemned to prison for life, he became in the end Bishop of
       Bayeux. I note for those who take an interest in those things
       that manuscripts of two of his sermons may be found in the
       National Library of Paris. The author of them being indicated
       simply as fr. Gr. min., it has only lately become known whose
       they were. These sermons were preached in Paris on Holy Thursday
       and Saturday. MS. new. acq., Lat., 338 f^o 148, 159.

  [40] Giord., 11. Cf. Spec., 34b. Fior., 4; Conform., 184a, 1.

  [41] Giord., 12. Cf. Bull Sacrosancta of December 9, 1219.

  [42] Giord., 12. Ought we, perhaps, to read di Campello? Half
       way between Foligno and Spoleto there is a place of this name.
       On the other hand, the 3 Soc., 35, indicate the entrance into
       the Order of a Giovanni di Capella who in the legend became the
       Franciscan Judas. Invenit abusum capelle et ab ipsa denominatus
       est: ab ordine recedens factus leprosus laqueo ut Judas se
       suspendit. Conform., 104a, 1. Cf. Bernard de Besse, 96a;
       Spec., 2; Fior., 1. All this is much mixed up. Perhaps we
       should believe that Giovanni di Campello died shortly afterward,
       and that later on, when the stories of this troubled time were
       forgotten, some ingenious Brother explained the note of infamy
       attached to his memory by a hypothesis built upon his name
       itself.

  [43] Giord., 12, 13, and 14. Many zealous brethren were already despairing, for
persecutions had begun in many provinces; so when they learned that
their spiritual father was alive and coming again to visit them their
joy was unbounded. From Venice Francis went to Bologna. The journey was
marked by an incident which once more shows his acute and wise goodness.
Worn out as much by emotion as by fatigue, he one day found himself
obliged to give up finishing the journey on foot. Mounted upon an ass,
he was going on his way, followed by Brother Leonard of Assisi, when a
passing glance showed him what was passing in his companion's mind. "My
relatives," the friar was thinking, "would have been far enough from
associating with Bernardone, and yet here am I, obliged to follow his
son on foot."

We may judge of his astonishment when he heard Francis saying, as he hastily dismounted from
his beast: "Here, take my place; it is most unseemly that thou shouldst follow me on foot,
who art of a noble and powerful lineage." The unhappy Leonard, much confused, threw himself
at Francis's feet, begging for pardon.[4]

Scarcely arrived at Bologna, Francis was obliged to proceed against those who had become backsliders.
It will be remembered that the Order was intended to possess nothing, either directly or indirectly.
The monasteries given to the friars did not become their property; so soon as the proprietor
should desire to take them back or anyone else should wish to take possession of them, they
were to be given up without the least resistance; but on drawing near to Bologna he learned
that a house was being built, which was already called The house of the Brothers. He commanded
its immediate evacuation, not even excepting the sick who happened to be there. The Brothers
then resorted to Ugolini, who was then in that very city for the consecration of Santa Maria
di Rheno.[5] He explained to Francis at length that this house did not belong to the Order;
he had declared himself its proprietor by public acts; and he succeeded in convincing him.[6]

Bolognese piety prepared for Francis an enthusiastic reception, the echo of which has come
down even to our times:

    "I was studying at Bologna, I, Thomas of Spalato, archdeacon in
    the cathedral church of that city, when in the year 1220, the
    day of the Assumption, I saw St. Francis preaching on the piazza
    of the Lesser Palace, before almost every man in the city. The
    theme of his discourse was the following: Angels, men, the
    demons. He spoke on all these subjects with so much wisdom and
    eloquence that many learned men who were there were filled with
    admiration at the words of so plain a man. Yet he had not the
    manner of a preacher, his ways were rather those of
    conversation; the substance of his discourse bore especially
    upon the abolition of enmities and the necessity of making
    peaceful alliances. His apparel was poor, his person in no
    respect imposing, his face not at all handsome; but God gave
    such great efficacy to his words that he brought back to peace
    and harmony many nobles whose savage fury had not even stopped
    short before the shedding of blood. So great a devotion was felt
    for him that men and women flocked after him, and he esteemed
    himself happy who succeeded in touching the hem of his garment."

Was it at this time that the celebrated Accurso the Glossarist,[7] chief of that famous dynasty
of jurisconsults who during the whole thirteenth century shed lustre upon the University of
Bologna, welcomed the Brothers Minor to his villa at Ricardina, near the city?[8] We do not know.

It appears that another professor, Nicolas dei Pepoli, also entered the Order.[9] Naturally
the pupils did not lag behind, and a certain number asked to receive the habit. Yet all this
constituted a danger; this city, which in Italy was as an altar consecrated to the science
of law, was destined to exercise upon the evolution of the Order the same influence as Paris;
the Brothers Minor could no more hold aloof from it than they could keep aloof from the ambient
air.

This time Francis remained here but a very short time. An ancient tradition, of which his biographers
have not preserved any trace, but which nevertheless appears to be entirely probable, says
that Ugolini took him to pass a month in the Camaldoli, in the retreat formerly inhabited by
St. Romuald in the midst of the Casentino forest, one of the noblest in Europe, within a few
hours' walk of the Verna, whose summit rises up gigantic, overlooking the whole country.

We know how much Francis needed repose. There is no doubt that he also longed for a period
of meditation in order to decide carefully in advance upon his line of conduct, in the midst
of the dark conjectures which had called him home. The desire to give him the much-needed rest
was only a subordinate purpose with Ugolini. The moment for vigorous action appeared to him
to have come. We can easily picture his responses to Francis's complaints. Had he not been
seriously advised to profit by the counsels of the past, by the experience of those founders
of Orders who have been not only saints but skilful leaders of men? Was not Ugolini himself
his best friend, his born defender, and yet had not Francis forced him to lay aside the influence
to which his love for the friars, his position in the Church, and his great age gave him such
just title? Yes, he had been forced to leave Francis to needlessly expose his disciples to
all sorts of danger, to send them on missions as perilous as they had proved to be ineffectual,
and all for what? For the most trivial point of honor, because the Brothers Minor were determined
not to enjoy the smallest privileges. They were not heretics, but they disturbed the Church
as much as the heretics did. How many times had he not been reminded that a great association,
in order to exist, must have precise and detailed regulations? It had all been labor lost!
Of course Francis's humility was doubted by no one, but why not manifest it, not only in costume
and manner of living, but in all his acts? He thought himself obeying God in defending his
own inspiration, but does not the Church speak in the name of God? Are not the words of her
representatives the words of Jesus forever perpetuated on earth? He desired to be a man of
the Gospel, an apostolic man, but was not the best way of becoming such to obey the Roman pontiff,
the successor of Peter? With an excess of condescension they had let him go on in his own way,
and the result was the saddest of lessons. But the situation was not desperate, there was still
time to find a remedy; to do that he had only to throw himself at the feet of the pope, imploring
his blessing, his light, and his counsel.

Reproaches such as these, mingled with professions of love and admiration on the part of the
prelate, could not but profoundly disturb a sensitive heart like that of Francis. His conscience
bore him good witness, but with the modesty of noble minds he was ready enough to think that
he might have made many mistakes.

Perhaps this is the place to ask what was the secret of the friendship of these two men, so
little known to one another on certain sides. How could it last without a shadow down to the
very death of Francis, when we always find Ugolini the very soul of the group who are compromising
the Franciscan ideal? No answer to this question is possible. The same problem presents itself
with regard to Brother Elias, and we are no better able to find a satisfactory answer. Men
of loving hearts seldom have a perfectly clear intelligence. They often become fascinated by
men the most different from themselves, in whose breasts they feel none of those feminine weaknesses,
those strange dreams, that almost sickly pity for creatures and things, that mysterious thirst
for pain which is at once their own happiness and their torment.

The sojourn at Camaldoli was prolonged until the middle of September, and it ended to the cardinal's
satisfaction. Francis had decided to go directly to the pope, then at Orvieto, with the request
that Ugolini should be given him as official protector intrusted with the direction of the Order.

A dream which he had once had recurred to his memory; he had seen a little black hen which,
in spite of her efforts, was not able to spread her wings over her whole brood. The poor hen
was himself, the chickens were the friars. This dream was a providential indication commanding
him to seek for them a mother under whose wings they could all find a place, and who could
defend them against the birds of prey. At least so he thought.[10]

He repaired to Orvieto without taking Assisi in his way, since if he went there he would be
obliged to take some measures against the fomentors of disturbance; he now proposed to refer
everything directly to the pope.

Does his profound humility, with the feeling of culpability which Ugolini had awakened in him,
suffice to explain his attitude with regard to the pope, or must we suppose that he had a vague
thought of abdicating? Who knows whether conscience was not already murmuring a reproach, and
showing him how trivial were all the sophisms which had been woven around him?

    "Not daring to present himself in the apartments of so great a
    prince, he remained outside before the door, patiently waiting
    till the pope should come out. When he appeared St. Francis made
    a reverence and said:

    "'Father Pope, may God give you peace.' 'May God bless you, my
    son,' replied he. 'My lord,' then said St. Francis to him, 'you
    are great and often absorbed by great affairs; poor friars
    cannot come and talk with you as often as they need to do; you
    have given me many popes; give me a single one to whom I may
    address myself when need occurs, and who will listen in your
    stead, and discuss my affairs and those of the Order.' 'Whom do
    you wish I should give you, my son?' 'The Bishop of Ostia.' And
    he gave him to him."[11]

Conferences with Ugolini now began again; he immediately accorded Francis some amends; the
privilege granted the Clarisses was revoked; Giovanni di Conpello was informed that he had
nothing to hope from the curia, and last of all leave was given to Francis himself to compose
the Rule of his Order. Naturally he was not spared counsel on the subject, but there was one
point upon which the curia could not brook delay, and of which it exacted the immediate application--the
obligation of a year's novitiate for the postulants.

At the same time a bull was issued not merely for the sake of publishing this ordinance, but
especially to mark in a solemn manner the commencement of a new era in the relations of the
Church and the Franciscans. The fraternity of the Umbrian Penitents became an Order in the
strictest sense of the word.

    Honorius, bishop, servant of the servants of God, to Brother
    Francis and the other priors or custodes of the Brothers Minor,
    greeting and the apostolic benediction.

    In nearly all religious Orders it has been wisely ordained that
    those who present themselves with the purpose of observing the
    regular life shall make trial of it for a certain time, during
    which they also shall be tested, in order to leave neither place
    nor pretext for inconsiderate steps. For these reasons we
    command you by these presents to admit no one to make profession
    until after one year of novitiate; we forbid that after
    profession any brother shall leave the Order, and that any one
    shall take back again him who has gone out from it. We also
    forbid that those wearing your habit shall circulate here and
    there without obedience, lest the purity of your poverty be
    corrupted. If any friars have had this audacity, you will
    inflict upon them ecclesiastical censures until repentance.[12]

It is surely only by a very decided euphemism that such a bull can be considered in the light
of a privilege. It was in reality the laying of the strong hand of the papacy upon the Brothers
Minor.

From this time, in the very nature of things it became impossible for Francis to remain minister-general.
He felt it himself. Heart-broken, soul-sick, he would fain, in spite of all, have found in
the energy of his love those words, those glances which up to this time had taken the place
of rule or constitution, giving to his earliest companions the intuition of what they ought
to do and the strength to accomplish it; but an administrator was needed at the head of this
family which he suddenly found to be so different from what it had been a few years before,
and he sadly acknowledged that he himself was not in the slightest degree such a person.[13]

Ah, in his own conscience he well knew that the old ideal was the true, the right one; but
he drove away such thoughts as the temptations of pride. The recent events had not taken place
without in some degree weakening his moral personality; from being continually talked to about
obedience, submission, humility, a certain obscurity had come over this luminous soul; inspiration
no longer came to it with the certainty of other days; the prophet had begun to waver, almost
to doubt of himself and of his mission. Anxiously he searched himself to see if in the beginning
of his work there had not been some vain self-complacency. He pictured to himself beforehand
the chapter which he was about to open, the attack, the criticisms of which it would be the
object, and labored to convince himself that if he did not endure them with joy he was not
a true Brother Minor.[14] The noblest virtues are subject to scruples, that of perfect humility
more than any other, and thus it is that excellent men religiously betray their own convictions
to avoid asserting themselves. He resolved then to put the direction of the Order into the
hands of Pietro di Catana. It is evident that there was nothing spontaneous in this decision,
and the fact that this brother was a doctor of laws and belonged to the nobility squarely argues
the transformation of the Franciscan institute.

It is not known whether or not Ugolini was present at the chapter of September 29, 1220, but
if he was not there in person he was assuredly represented by some prelate, charged to watch
over the debates.[15] The bull which had been issued a week before was communicated to the
friars, to whom Francis also announced that he was about to elaborate a new Rule. With reference
to this matter there were conferences in which the ministers alone appear to have had a deliberative
voice. At these conferences the essential points of the new Rule were settled as to principle,
leaving to Francis the care of giving them proper form at his leisure. Nothing better reveals
the demoralized state into which he had fallen than the decision which was taken to drop out
one of the essential passages of the old Rule, one of his three fundamental precepts, that
which began with these words, "Carry nothing with you."[16]

How did they go to work to obtain from Francis this concession which, a little while before,
he would have looked upon as a denial of his call, a refusal to accept in its integrity the
message which Jesus had addressed to him? It is the secret of history, but we may suppose there
was in his life at this time one of those moral tempests which overbear the faculties of the
strongest, leaving in their wounded hearts only an unutterable pain.

Something of this pain has passed into the touching narrative of his abdication which the biographers
have given us.

    "From henceforth," he said to the friars, "I am dead for you,
    but here is Brother Pietro di Catana, whom you and I will all
    obey." And prostrating himself before him he promised him
    obedience and submission. The friars could not restrain their
    tears and lamentations when they saw themselves thus becoming in
    some sort orphans, but Francis arose, and, clasping his hands,
    with eyes upraised to heaven: "Lord," he said, "I return to thee
    this family which thou hast confided to me. Now, as thou
    knowest, most sweet Jesus, I have no longer strength nor ability
    to keep on caring for them; I confide them, therefore, to the
    ministers. May they be responsible before thee at the day of
    judgment if any brother, by their negligence or bad example, or
    by a too severe discipline, should ever wander away."[17]

The functions of Pietro di Catana were destined to continue but a very short time; he died
on March 10, 1221.[18]

Information abounds as to this period of a few months; nothing is more natural, since Francis
remained at Portiuncula to complete the task confided to him, living there surrounded with
brethren who later on would recall to mind all the incidents of which they were witnesses.
Some of them reveal the conflict of which his soul was the arena. Desirous of showing himself
submissive, he nevertheless found himself tormented by the desire to shake off his chains and
fly away as in former days, to live and breathe in God alone. The following artless record
deserves, it seems to me, to be better known.[19]

   One day a novice who could read the psalter, though not without
   difficulty, obtained from the minister general--that is to say,
   from the vicar of St. Francis--permission to have one. But as he
   had learned that St. Francis desired the brethren to be covetous
   neither for learning nor for books, he would not take his psalter
   without his consent. So, St. Francis having come to the monastery
   where the novice was, "Father," said he, "it would be a great
   consolation to have a psalter; but though the minister-general
   has authorized me to get it, I would not have it unknown to you."
   "Look at the Emperor Charles," replied St. Francis with fire,
   "Roland, and Oliver and all the paladins, valorous heroes and
   gallant knights, who gained their famous victories in fighting
   infidels, in toiling and laboring even unto death! The holy
   martyrs, they also have chosen to die in the midst of battle for
   the faith of Christ! But now there are many of those who aspire
   to merit honor and glory simply by relating their feats. Yes,
   among us also there are many who expect to receive glory and
   honor by reciting and preaching the works of the saints, as if
   they had done them themselves!"

   ... A few days after, St. Francis was sitting before the fire,
   and the novice drew near to speak to him anew about his psalter.

   "When you have your psalter," said Francis to him, "you will want
   a breviary, and when you have a breviary you will seat yourself
   in a pulpit like a great prelate and will beckon to your
   companion, 'Bring me my breviary!'"

   St. Francis said this with great vivacity, then taking up some
   ashes he scattered them over the head of the novice, repeating,
   "There is the breviary, there is the breviary!"

   Several days after, St. Francis being at Portiuncula and walking
   up and down on the roadside not far from his cell, the same
   Brother came again to speak to him about his psalter. "Very well,
   go on," said Francis to him, "you have only to do what your
   minister tells you." At these words the novice went away, but
   Francis began to reflect on what he had said, and suddenly
   calling to the friar, he cried, "Wait for me! wait for me!" When
   he had caught up to him, "Retrace your steps a little way. I beg
   you," he said. "Where was I when I told you to do whatever your
   minister told you as to the psalter?" Then falling upon his knees
   on the spot pointed out by the friar, he prostrated himself at
   his feet: "Pardon, my brother, pardon!" he cried, "for he who
   would be Brother Minor ought to have nothing but his clothing."

This long story is not merely precious because it shows us, even to the smallest particular,
the conflict between the Francis of the early years, looking only to God and his conscience,
and the Francis of 1220, become a submissive monk in an Order approved by the Roman Church,
but also because it is one of those infrequent narratives where his method shows itself with
its artless realism. These allusions to the tales of chivalry, and this freedom of manner which
made a part of his success with the masses, were eliminated from the legend with an incredible
rapidity. His spiritual sons were perhaps not ashamed of their father in this matter, but they
were so bent upon bringing out his other qualities that they forgot a little too much the poet,
the troubadour, the joculator Domini.

Certain fragments, later than Thomas of Celano by more than a century, which relate some incidents
of this kind, bear for that very reason the stamp of authenticity.

It is difficult enough to ascertain precisely what part Francis still took in the direction
of the Order. Pietro di Catana and later Brother Elias are sometimes called ministers-general,
sometimes vicars; the two terms often occur successively, as in the preceding narrative. It
is very probable that this confusion of terms corresponds to a like confusion of facts. Perhaps
it was even intentional. After the chapter of September, 1220, the affairs of the Order pass
into the hands of him whom Francis had called minister-general, though the friars as well as
the papacy gave him only the title of vicar. It was essential for the popularity of the Brothers
Minor that Francis should preserve an appearance of authority, but the reality of government
had slipped from his hands.

The ideal which he had borne in his body until 1209 and had then given birth to in anguish,
was now taking its flight, like those sons of our loins whom we see suddenly leaving us without
our being able to help it, since that is life, yet not without a rending of our vitals. Mater
dolorosa! Ah, no doubt they will come back again, and seat themselves piously beside us at
the paternal hearth; perhaps even, in some hour of moral distress, they will feel the need
of taking refuge in their mother's arms as in the old days; but these fleeting returns, with
their feverish haste, only reopen the wounds of the poor parents, when they see how the children
hasten to depart again--they who bear their name but belong to them no longer.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] Giord., 14; Tribul., f^o 10.

   [2] Any other date is impossible, since Francis in open chapter
       relinquished the direction of the Order in favor of Pietro di
       Catana, who died March 10, 1221.

   [3] This too short fragment is found in § vi. of the Rule of the
       Damianites (August 9, 1253): Speculum, Morin, Tract. iii., 226b.

   [4] 2 Cel., 2, 3; Bon., 162; cf. Conform., 184b, 2, and 62b, 1.

   [5] Sigonius, Opera, t. iii. col. 220; cf. Potthast, 5516, and
       6086.

   [6] 2 Cel., 3, 4; Spec., 11a; Tribul., 13a; Conform.,
       169b, 2.

   [7] Died in 1229. Cf. Mazzetti, Repertorio di tutti i
       professori di Bologna, Bologna, 1847, p. 11.

   [8] See Mon. Germ. hist. Script., t. 28, p. 635, and the
       notes.

   [9] Wadding, ann. 1220, no. 9. Cf. A. SS., p. 823.

  [10] 2 Cel., 1, 16; Spec., 100a-101b.

  [11] Giord., 14; cf. 2 Cel., 1, 17; Spec., 102; 3 Soc., 56 and 63.

  [12] Cum secundum. The original is at Assisi with Datum apud
       Urbem Veterem X. Kal. Oct. pont. nostri anno quinto (September
       22, 1220). It is therefore by an error that Sbaralea and Wadding
       make it date from Viterbo, which is the less explicable that all
       the bulls of this epoch are dated from Orvieto. Wadding, ann.
       1220, 57; Sbaralea, vol. i., p. 6; Potthast, 6561.

  [13] 2 Cel., 3, 118; Ubertin, Arbor. V., 2; Spec., 26; 50;
       130b; Conform., 136a, 2; 143a, 2.

  [14] 2 Cel., 3, 83; Bon. 77. One should read this account in the
       Conform. according to the Antigua Legenda, 142a, 2; 31a, 1;
       Spec. 43b.

  [15] Tribul. Laur. MS., 12b; Magl. MS., 71b.

  [16] Luke, ix., 1-6. Tribul., 12b: Et fecerunt de regula
       prima ministri removere.... This must have taken place at the
       chapter of September 29, 1220, since the suppression is made in
       the Rule of 1221.

  [17] 2 Cel., 3, 81; Spec., 26; Conform., 175b, 1; 53a; Bon.,
       76; A. SS., p. 620.

  [18] The epitaph on his tomb, which still exists at S. M. dei
       Angeli bears this date: see Portiuncula, von P. Barnabas aus
       dem Elsass, Rixheim, 1884, p. 11. Cf. A. SS., p. 630.

  [19] Spec., 9b; Arbor. V., 3; Conform., 170a, 1; 2 Cel.,
       3, 124. Cf. Ubertini, Archiv., iii., pp. 75 and 177.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XV

THE RULE OF 1221[1]

The winter of 1220-1221 was spent by Francis chiefly in fixing his thought by writing. Until
now he had been too much the man of action to have been able to give much thought to anything
but the living word, but from this time his exhausted forces compelled him to satisfy his longing
for souls by some other means than evangelizing tours. We have seen that the chapter of September
29, 1220, on one side, and the bull Cum secundum on the other, had fixed in advance a certain
number of points. For the rest, complete liberty had been given him, not indeed to make a final
and unchangeable statement of his ideas, but to set them forth. The substance of legislative
power had passed into the hands of the ministers.[2]

That which we call the Rule of 1221 is, then, nothing more than a proposed law, submitted to
a representative government at its parliament. The head of authority will one day give it to
the world, so thoroughly modified and altered that Francis's name at the head of such a document
will give but small promise, and quite indirectly, that it will contain his personal opinion.

Never was man less capable of making a Rule than Francis. In reality, that of 1210 and the
one which the pope solemnly approved in November 29, 1223, had little in common except the
name. In the former all is alive, free, spontaneous; it is a point of departure, an inspiration;
it may be summed up in two phrases: the appeal of Jesus to man, "Come, follow me," the act
of man, "He left all and followed him." To the call of divine love man replies by the joyful
gift of himself, and that quite naturally, by a sort of instinct. At this height of mysticism
any regulation is not only useless, it is almost a profanation; at the very least it is the
symptom of a doubt. Even in earthly loves, when people truly love each other nothing is asked,
nothing promised.

The Rule of 1223, on the other hand, is a reciprocal contract. On the divine side the call
has become a command; on the human, the free impulse of love has become an act of submission,
by which life eternal will be earned. An inward flame draws us irresistibly toward him: Et
Spiritus et Sponsa dicunt: Veni.

It is necessary to dwell a little on the antithesis between these two Rules. That of 1210 alone
is truly Franciscan; that of 1223 is indirectly the work of the Church, endeavoring to assimilate
with herself the new movement, which with one touch she transforms and turns wholly from its
original purpose.

That of 1221 marks an intermediate stage. It is the clash of two principles, or rather of two
spirits; they approach, they touch, but they are not merged in one another; here and there
is a mixture, but nowhere combination; we can separate the divers elements without difficulty.
Their condition is the exact reflection of what was going on in Francis's soul, and of the
rapid evolution of the Order.

To aid him in his work Francis joined to himself Brother Cæsar of Speyer, who would be especially
useful to him by his profound acquaintance with the sacred texts.

What strikes us first, on glancing over this Rule of 1221, is its extraordinary length; it
covers not less than ten folio pages, while that of 1223 has no more than three. Take away
from it the passages which emanate from the papacy and those which were fixed at the previous
chapter, you will hardly have shortened it by a column; what remains is not a Rule, but a series
of impassioned appeals, in which the father's heart speaks, not to command but to convince,
to touch, to awaken in his children the instinct of love.

It is all chaotic and even contradictory,[3] without order, a medley
of outbursts of joy and bitter sobs, of hopes and regrets. There are
passages in which the passion of the soul speaks in every possible tone,
runs over the whole gamut from the softest note to the most masculine,
from those which are as joyous and inspiring as the blast of a clarion,
to those which are agitated, stifled, like a voice from beyond the tomb. Let us have always in ourselves a tabernacle and a
    home for him who is the Lord God most mighty, Father, Son, and
    Holy Spirit, who says, 'Watch and pray always, that you may be
    found worthy to escape all the things which will come to pass,
    and to appear upright before the Son of man.'

    "Let us then keep in the true way, the life, the truth, and the
    holy Gospel of Him who has deigned for our sake to leave his
    Father that he may manifest his name to us, saying, 'Father, I
    have manifested thy name to those whom thou hast given me, and
    the words which thou hast given me I have given also unto them.
    They have received them, and they have known that I am come from
    thee, and they believe that thou hast sent me. I pray for them;
    I pray not for the world, but for those whom thou hast given me,
    that they may be one as we are one. I have said these things,
    being still in the world, that they may have joy in themselves.
    I have given them thy words, and the world hath hated them,
    because they are not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldst
    take them out of the world, but that thou wilt keep them from
    the evil. Sanctify them through the truth; thy word is truth. As
    thou hast sent me into the world I have also sent them into the
    world, and for their sake I sanctify myself that they may
    themselves be sanctified in the truth; and neither pray I for
    these alone, but for all those who shall believe on me through
    their words, that we all may be one, and that the world may know
    that thou hast sent me, and that thou lovest them as thou hast
    loved me. I have made known unto them thy name, that the love
    wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them and I in them.'

    PRAYER.

    "Almighty, most high and sovereign God, holy Father, righteous
    Lord, King of heaven and earth, we give thee thanks for thine
    own sake, in that by thy holy will, and by thine only Son and
    thy Holy Spirit thou hast created all things spiritual and
    corporeal, and that after having made us in thine image and
    after thy likeness, thou didst place us in that paradise which
    we lost by our sin. And we give thee thanks because after having
    created us by thy Son, by that love which is thine, and which
    thou hast had for us, thou hast made him to be born very God and
    very man of the glorious and blessed Mary, ever Virgin, and
    because by his cross, his blood, and his death thou hast willed
    to ransom us poor captives. Alleluia.

    "And we pray the glorious Mother, the blessed Mary, ever Virgin,
    St. Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, and all the choir of blessed
    Spirits, Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones, Dominions, Principalities
    and Powers, Virtues and Angels, Archangels, John the Baptist,
    John the Evangelist, Peter, Paul, and the holy Patriarchs, the
    Prophets, the Holy Innocents, Apostles, Evangelists, Disciples,
    Martyrs, Confessors, Virgins, the blessed ones, Elijah and
    Enoch, and all the saints who have been, shall be, and are, we
    humbly pray them by thy love to give thee thanks for these
    things, as it pleases thee, sovereign, true, eternal and living
    God, and also to thy Son, our most holy Lord Jesus Christ, and
    to the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, forever and ever. Amen.
    Alleluia.

    "And we supplicate all those who desire to serve the Lord God,
    in the bosom of the Catholic and Apostolic Church, all priests,
    deacons, sub-deacons, acolytes and exorcists, readers, porters,
    all clerks, all monks and nuns, all children and little ones,
    paupers and exiles, kings, and princes, workmen and laborers,
    servants and masters, the virgins, the continent and the
    married, laics, men and women, all children, youths, young men
    and old men, the sick and the well, the small and the great, the
    peoples of every tribe and tongue and nation, all men in every
    part of the world whatsoever, who are or who shall be, we pray
    and beseech them, all we Brothers Minor, unprofitable servants,
    that all together, with one accord we persevere in the true
    faith and in penitence, for outside of these no person can be
    saved.

    "Let us all, with all our heart and all our thought, and all our
    strength, and all our mind, with all our vigor, with all our
    effort, with all our affection, with all our inward powers, our
    desires, and our wills, love the Lord God, who has given to us
    all his body, all his soul, all his life, and still gives them
    every day to each one of us. He created us, he saved us by his
    grace alone; he has been, he still is, full of goodness to us,
    us wicked and worthless, corrupt and offensive, ungrateful,
    ignorant, bad. We desire nothing else, we wish for nothing else;
    may nothing else please us, or have any attraction for us,
    except the Creator, the Redeemer, the Saviour, sole and true
    God, who is full of goodness, who is all goodness, who is the
    true and supreme good, who alone is kind, pious, and merciful,
    gracious, sweet, and gentle, who alone is holy, righteous, true,
    upright, who alone has benignity, innocence, and purity; of
    whom, by whom, and in whom is all the pardon, all the grace, all
    the glory of all penitents, of all the righteous and all the
    saints who are rejoicing in heaven.

    "Then let nothing again hinder, let nothing again separate,
    nothing again retard us, and may we all, so long as we live, in
    every place, at every hour, at every time, every day and
    unceasingly, truly and humbly believe. Let us have in our
    hearts, let us love, adore, serve, praise, bless, glorify,
    exalt, magnify, thank the most high, sovereign, eternal God,
    Trinity and Unity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, Creator of all
    men, both of those who believe and hope in him and of those who
    love him. He is without beginning and without end, immutable and
    invisible, ineffable, incomprehensible, indiscernible, blessed,
    lauded, glorious, exalted, sublime, most high, sweet, lovely,
    delectable, and always worthy of being desired above all things,
    in all the ages of ages. Amen."

Have not these artless repetitions a mysterious charm which steals deliciously into the very
depths of the heart? Is there not in them a sort of sacrament of which the words are only the
rude vehicle? Francis is taking refuge in God, as the child throws itself upon its mother's
bosom, and in the incoherence of its weakness and its joy stammers out all the words it knows,
repeating by them all only the eternal "I am thine" of love and faith.

There is in them also something which recalls, not only by citations, but still more by the
very inspiration of the thought, that which we call the sacerdotal prayer of Christ. The apostle
of poverty appears here as if suspended between earth and heaven by the very strength of his
love, consecrated the priest of a new worship by the inward and irresistible unction of the
Spirit. He does not offer sacrifice like the priest of the past time; he sacrifices himself,
and carries in his body all the woes of humanity.

The more beautiful are these words from the mystical point of view, the less do they correspond
with what is expected in a Rule; they have neither the precision nor the brief and imperative
forms of one. The transformations which they were to undergo in order to become the code of
1223 were therefore fatal when we consider the definitive intervention of the Church of Rome
to direct the Franciscan movement.

It is probable that this rough draft of a Rule, such as we have it now, is that which was distributed
in the chapter of Whitsunday, 1221. The variants, sometimes capital, which are found in the
different texts, can be nothing other than outlines of the corrections proposed by the provincial
ministers. Once admit the idea of considering this document as a rough draft, we are very soon
brought to think that it had already undergone a rapid preliminary revision, a sort of pruning,
in which ecclesiastical authority has caused to disappear all that was in flagrant contradiction
with its own projects for the Order.

If it is asked, who could have made these curtailments, one name springs at once to our lips--Ugolini.
He criticised its exaggerated proportions, its want of unity and precision. Later on it is
related that Francis had seen in a dream a multitude of starving friars, and himself unable
to satisfy their wants, because though all around him lay innumerable crumbs of bread, they
disappeared between his fingers when he would give them to those about him. Then a voice from
heaven said to him: "Francis, make of these crumbs a wafer; with that thou shalt feed these
starving ones."

There is little hazard in assuming that this is the picturesque echo of the conferences which
took place at this time between Francis and the cardinal; the latter might have suggested to
him by such a comparison the essential defects of his project. All this, no doubt, took place
during Francis's stay in Rome, in the beginning of 1221.[4]

Before going there, we must cast a glance over the similarity in inspiration and even in style
which allies the Rule of 1221 with another of St. Francis's works, that which is known under
the title of The Admonitions.[5] This is a series of spiritual counsels with regard to the
religious life; it is closely united both in matter and form with the work which we have just
examined. The tone of voice is so perfectly the same that one is tempted to see in it parts
of the original draft of the Rule, separated from it as too prolix to find place in a Rule.

However it may be with this hypothesis, we find in The Admonitions all the anxieties with which
the soul of Francis was assailed in this uncertain and troubled hour. Some of these counsels
sound like bits from a private journal. We see him seeking, with the simplicity of perfect
humility, for reasons for submitting himself, renouncing his ideas, and not quite succeeding
in finding them. He repeats to himself the exhortations that others had given him; we feel
the effort to understand and admire the ideal monk whom Ugolini and the Church have proposed
to him for an example:

    The Lord says in the Gospels: "He who does not give up all that
    he has cannot be my disciple. And he who would save his life
    shall lose it." One gives up all he possesses and loses his life
    when life gives himself entirely into the hands of his superior,
    to obey him.... And when the inferior sees things which would be
    better or more useful to his soul than those which the superior
    commands him, let him offer to God the sacrifice of his will.

Reading this one might think that Francis was about to join the ranks of those to whom submission
to ecclesiastical authority is the very essence of religion. But no; even here his true feeling
is not wholly effaced, he mingles his words with parentheses and illustrations, timid, indeed,
but revealing his deepest thought; always ending by enthroning the individual conscience as
judge of last resort.[6]

All this shows clearly enough that we must picture to ourselves moments when his wounded soul
sighs after passive obedience, the formula of which, perinde ac cadaver, goes apparently much
farther back than the Company of Jesus. These were moments of exhaustion, when inspiration
was silent.

   One day he was sitting with his companions, when he began to
   groan and say: "There is hardly a monk upon earth who perfectly
   obeys his superior." His companions, much astonished, said:
   "Explain to us, father, what is perfect and supreme obedience."
   Then, comparing him who obeys to a corpse, he replied: "Take a
   dead body, and put it where you will, it will make no resistance;
   when it is in one place it will not murmur, when you take it away
   from there it will not object; put it in a pulpit, it will not
   look up but down; wrap it in purple, it will only be doubly
   pale."[7]

This longing for corpse-like obedience witnesses to the ravages with which his soul had been
laid waste; it corresponds in the moral domain to the cry for annihilation of great physical
anguish.

The worst was that he was absolutely alone. Everywhere else the Franciscan obedience is living,
active, joyful.[8]

He drank this cup to the very dregs, holding sacred the revolts dictated by conscience. One
day in the later years of his life a German friar came to see him, and after having long discussed
with him pure obedience:

    "I ask you one favor," he said to him, "it is that if the
    Brothers ever come to live no longer according to the Rule you
    will permit me to separate myself from them, alone or with a few
    others, to observe it in its completeness." At these words
    Francis felt a great joy. "Know," said he, "that Christ as well
    as I authorize what you have just been asking;" and laying hands
    upon him, "Thou art a priest forever," he added, "after the
    order of Melchisedec."[9]

We have a yet more touching proof of his solicitude to safeguard the spiritual independence
of his disciples: it is a note to Brother Leo.[10] The latter, much alarmed by the new spirit
which was gaining power in the Order, opened his mind thereupon to his master, and doubtless
asked of him pretty much the same permission as the friar from Germany. After an interview
in which he replied viva voce, Francis, not to leave any sort of doubt or hesitation in the
mind of him whom he surnamed his little sheep of God, pecorella di Dio, wrote to him again:

    Brother Leo, thy brother Francis wishes thee peace and health.

    I reply yes, my son, as a mother to her child. This word sums
    up all we said while walking, as well as all my counsels. If
    thou hast need to come to me for counsel, it is my wish that
    thou shouldst do it. Whatever may be the manner in which thou
    thinkest thou canst please the Lord God, follow it, and live in
    poverty. Do this (faites le[11]), God will bless thee and I
    authorize it. And if it were necessary for thy soul, or for thy
    consolation that thou shouldst come to see me, or if thou
    desirest it, my Leo, come.

    Thine in Christ.

Surely we are far enough here from the corpse of a few pages back.

It would be superfluous to pause over the other admonitions. For the most part they are reflections
inspired by circumstances. Counsels as to humility recur with a frequency which explains both
the personal anxieties of the author, and the necessity of reminding the brothers of the very
essence of their profession.

The sojourn of St. Francis at Rome, whither he went in the early months of 1221, to lay his
plan before Ugolini, was marked by a new effort of the latter to bring him and St. Dominic
together.[12]

The cardinal was at this time at the apogee of his success. Everything had gone well with him.
His voice was all powerful not only in affairs of the Church, but also in those of the Empire.
Frederic II., who seemed to be groping his way, and in whose mind were germinating dreams of
religious reformation, and the desire of placing his power at the service of the truth, treated
him as a friend, and spoke of him with unbounded admiration.[13]

In his reflections upon the remedies to be applied to the woes of Christianity, the cardinal
came at last to think that one of the most efficacious would be the substitution of bishops
taken from the two new Orders, for the feudal episcopate almost always recruited from local
families in which ecclesiastical dignities were, so to speak, hereditary. In the eyes of Ugolini
such bishops were usually wanting in two essential qualities of a good prelate: religious zeal
and zeal for the Church.

He believed that the Preaching and the Minor Friars would not only possess those virtues which
were lacking in the others, but that in the hands of the papacy they might become a highly
centralized hierarchy, truly catholic, wholly devoted to the interests of the Church at large.
The difficulties which might occur on the part of the chapters which should elect the bishops,
as well as on the side of the high secular clergy, would be put to flight by the enthusiasm
which the people would feel for pastors whose poverty would recall the days of the primitive
Church.

At the close of his interviews with Francis and Dominic, he communicated to them some of these
thoughts, asking their advice as to the elevation of their friars to prelatures. There was
a pious contest between the two saints as to which should answer first. Finally, Dominic said
simply that he should prefer to see his companions remain as they were. In his turn, Francis
showed that the very name of his institute made the thing impossible. "If my friars have been
called Minores," he said, "it is not that they may become Majores. If you desire that they
become fruitful in the Church of God, leave them alone, and keep them in the estate into which
God has called them. I pray you, father, do not so act that their poverty shall become a motive
for pride, nor elevate them to prelatures which would move them to insolence toward others."[14]

The ecclesiastical policy followed by the popes was destined to render this counsel of the
two founders wholly useless.[15]

Francis and Dominic parted, never again to meet. The Master of the Preaching Friars shortly
after set out for Bologna, where he died on August 6th following, and Francis returned to Portiuncula,
where Pietro di Catana had just died (March 10, 1221). He was replaced at the head of the Order
by Brother Elias. Ugolini was doubtless not without influence in this choice.

Detained by his functions of legate, he could not be present at the Whitsunday chapter (May
30, 1221).[16] He was represented there by Cardinal Reynerio,[17] who came accompanied by several
bishops and by monks of various orders.[18] About three thousand friars were there assembled,
but so great was the eagerness of the people of the neighborhood to bring provisions, that
after a session of seven days they were obliged to remain two days longer to eat up all that
had been brought. The sessions were presided over by Brother Elias, Francis sitting at his
feet and pulling at his robe when there was anything that he wished to have put before the
Brothers.

Brother Giordani di Giano, who was present, has preserved for us all these details and that
of the setting out of a group of friars for Germany. They were placed under the direction of
Cæsar of Speyer, whose mission succeeded beyond all expectation. Eighteen months after, when
he returned to Italy, consumed with the desire to see St. Francis again, the cities of Wurzburg,
Mayence, Worms, Speyer, Strasburg, Cologne, Salzburg, and Ratisbon had become Franciscan centres,
from whence the new ideas were radiating into all Southern Germany.

The foundation of the Tertiaries, or Third Order, generally in the oldest documents called
Brotherhood of Penitence, is usually fixed as occurring in the year 1221; but we have already
seen that this date is much too recent, or rather that it is impossible to fix any date, for
what was later called, quite arbitrarily, the Third Order is evidently contemporary with the
First.[19]

Francis and his companions desired to be the apostles of their time; but they, no more than
the apostles of Jesus, desired to have all men enter their association, which was necessarily
somewhat restricted, and which, according to the gospel saying, was meant to be the leaven
of the rest of humanity. In consequence, their life was literally the apostolic life, but the
ideal which they preached was the evangelical life, such as Jesus had preached it.

St. Francis no more condemned the family or property than Jesus did; he simply saw in them
ties from which the apostle, and the apostle alone, needs to be free.

If before long sickly minds fancied that they interpreted his thought in making the union of
the sexes an evil, and all that concerns the physical activity of man a fall; if unbalanced
spirits borrowed the authority of his name to escape from all duty; if married persons condemned
themselves to the senseless martyrdom of virginity, he should certainly not be made responsible.
These traces of an unnatural asceticism come from the dualist ideas of the Catharists, and
not from the inspired poet who sang nature and her fecundity, who made nests for doves, inviting
them to multiply under the watch of God, and who imposed manual labor on his friars as a sacred
duty.

The bases of the corporation of the Brothers and Sisters of Penitence were very simple. Francis
gave no new doctrine to the world; what was new in his message was wholly in his love, in his
direct call to the evangelical life, to an ideal of moral vigor, of labor, and of love.

Naturally, there were soon found men who did not understand this true and simple beauty; they
fell into observances and devotions, imitated, while living in the world, the life of the cloister
to which for one reason or another they were not able to retire; but it would be unjust to
picture to ourselves the Brothers of Penitence as modelled after them.

Did they receive a Rule from St. Francis? It is impossible to say. The one which was given[20]
them in 1289 by Pope Nicholas IV. is simply the recasting and amalgamation of all the rules
of lay fraternities which existed at the end of the thirteenth century. To attribute this document
to Francis is nothing less than the placing in a new building of certain venerated stones from
an ancient edifice. It is a matter of façade and ornamentation, nothing more.

Notwithstanding this absence of any Rule emanating from Francis himself, it is clear enough
what, in his estimation, this association ought to be. The Gospel, with its counsels and examples,
was to be its true Rule. The great innovation designed by the Third Order was concord; this
fraternity was a union of peace, and it brought to astonished Europe a new truce of God. Whether
the absolute refusal to carry arms[21] was an idea wholly chimerical and ephemeral, the documents
are there to prove, but it is a fine thing to have had the power to bring it about for a few years.

The second essential obligation of the Brothers of Penitence appears to have been that of reducing
their wants so far as possible, and while preserving their fortunes to distribute to the poor
at proper intervals the free portion of the revenue after contenting themselves with the strictly
necessary.[22]

To do with joy the duties of their calling; to give a holy inspiration to the slightest actions;
to find in the infinitely littles of existence, things apparently the most commonplace, parts
of a divine work; to keep pure from all debasing interest; to use things as not possessing
them, like the servants in the parable who would soon have to give account of the talents confided
to them; to close their hearts to hatred, to open them wide to the poor, the sick, to all abandoned
ones, such were the other essential duties of the Brothers and Sisters of Penitence.

To lead them into this royal road of liberty, love, and responsibility, Francis sometimes appealed
to the terrors of hell and the joys of paradise, but interested love was so little a part of
his nature that these considerations and others of the same kind occupy an entirely secondary
place in those of his writings which remain, as also in his biographies.

For him the gospel life is natural to the soul. Whoever comes to know it will prefer it; it
has no more need to be proved than the outer air and the light. It needs only to lead prisoners
to it, for them to lose all desire to return to the dungeons of avarice, hatred, or frivolity.

Francis and his true disciples make the painful ascent of the mountain heights, impelled solely,
but irresistibly, by the inner voice. The only foreign aid which they accept is the memory
of Jesus, going before them upon these heights and mysteriously living again before their eyes
in the sacrament of the eucharist.

The letter to all Christians in which these thoughts break forth is a living souvenir of St.
Francis's teachings to the Tertiaries.

To represent these latter to ourselves in a perfectly concrete form we may resort to the legend
of St. Lucchesio, whom tradition makes the first Brother of Penitence.[23]

A native of a little city of Tuscany he quitted it to avoid its political enmities, and established
himself at Poggibonsi, not far from Sienna, where he continued to trade in grain. Already rich,
it was not difficult for him to buy up all the wheat, and, selling it in a time of scarcity,
realize enormous profits. But soon overcome by Francis's preaching, he took himself to task,
distributed all his superfluity to the poor, and kept nothing but his house with a small garden
and one ass.

From that time he was to be seen devoting himself to the cultivation of this bit of ground,
and making of his house a sort of hostelry whither the poor and the sick came in swarms. He
not only welcomed them, but he sought them out, even to the malaria-infected Maremma, often
returning with a sick man astride on his back and preceded by his ass bearing a similar burden.
The resources of the garden were necessarily very limited; when there was no other way, Lucchesio
took a wallet and went from door to door asking alms, but most of the time this was needless,
for his poor guests, seeing him so diligent and so good, were better satisfied with a few poor
vegetables from the garden shared with him than with the most copious repast. In the presence
of their benefactor, so joyful in his destitution, they forgot their own poverty, and the habitual
murmurs of these wretches were transformed into outbursts of admiration and gratitude.

Conversion had not killed in him all family ties; Bona Donna, his wife, became his best co-laborer,
and when in 1260 he saw her gradually fading away his grief was too deep to be endured. "You
know, dear companion," he said to her when she had received the last sacraments, "how much
we have loved one another while we could serve God together; why should we not remain united
until we depart to the ineffable joy? Wait for me. I also will receive the sacraments, and
go to heaven with you."

So he spoke, and called back the priest to administer them to him. Then after holding the hands
of his dying companion, comforting her with gentle words, when he saw that her soul was gone
he made over her the sign of the cross, stretched himself beside her, and calling with love
upon Jesus, Mary, and St. Francis, he fell asleep for eternity.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] Text in Firmamentum, 10; Spec., 189; Spec., Morin.
       Tract., iii., 2b. M. Müller (Anfänge) has made a study of the
       Rule of 1221 which is a masterpiece of exegetical scent.
       Nevertheless if he had more carefully collated the different
       texts he would have arrived at still more striking results,
       thanks to the variants which he would have been able to
       establish. I cite a single example.

           Text Firm.--Wadding, adopted by Mr. M.

           Omnes fratres ubicunque sunt vel vadunt, caveant sibi a
           malo visu et frequentia mulierum et nullus cum eis
           consilietur solus. Sacerdos honeste loquatur cum eis
           dando penitentiam vel aliud spirituale consilium.

           Text of the Speculum, 189 ff.

           Omnes fratres ubicunque sunt et vadunt caveant se a malo
           visu et frequentia mulierum et nullus cum eis concilietur
           aut per viam vadat solus aut ad mensam in una paropside
           comedat. (!!) Sacerdos honeste loquatur cum eis dando ...
           etc.

       This passage is sufficient to show the superiority of the text
       of the Speculum, which is to be preferred also in other
       respects, but this is not the place for entering into these
       details. It is evident that the phrase in which we see the
       earliest friars sometimes sharing the repast of the sisters and
       eating from their porringer is not a later interpolation.

   [2] Tribul., 12b; Spec., 54b; Arbor. V., 3; Spec., 8b.

   [3] Cf. cap. 17 and 21.

   [4] 2 Cel., 3, 136.

   [5] See below, p. 354, text in the Firmamentum, 19 ff.;
       Speculum, Morin, tract. iii., 214a ff.; cf. Conform.,
       137 ff.

   [6] Cum facit (subditus) voluntatem (prælati) dummodo benefacit
       vera obedientia est. Admon., iii.; Conform., 139a, 2.--Si
       vero prælatus subdito aliquid contra animam præcipiat licet ei
       non obediat tamen ipsum non dimittat., Ibid.--Nullus tenetur
       ad obedientiam in eo ubi committitus delictum vel peccatum.
       Epist., ii.

   [7] 2 Cel., 3, 89; Spec., 29b; Conform., 176b, 1; Bon., 77.

   [8] Per caritatem spiritus voluntarii serviant et obediant
       invicem. Et hæc est vera et sancta obedientia. Reg., 1221, v.

   [9] Tribul., Laur. MS., 14b; Spec., 125a; Conform., 107b, 1;
       184b, 1.

  [10] Wadding gives it (Epist. xvi.), after the autograph
       preserved in the treasury of the Conventuals of Spoleto. The
       authenticity of this piece is evident.

  [11] This plural, which perplexed Wadding, shows plainly that
       Brother Leo had spoken in the name of a group.

  [12] This date for the new communications between them seems
       incontestable, though it has never been proposed; in fact, we
       are only concerned to find a time when all three could have met
       at Rome (2 Cel., 3, 86; Spec., 27a), between December 22, 1216
       (the approbation of the Dominicans), and August 6, 1221 (death
       of Dominic). Only two periods are possible: the early months of
       1218 (Potthast, 5739 and 5747) and the winter of 1220-1221. At
       any other time one of the three was absent from Rome.

       On the other hand we know that Ugolini was in Rome in the winter
       of 1220-1221 (Huillard-Bréholles, Hist. dipl., ii., pp. 48,
       123, 142. Cf. Potthast, 6589).--For Dominic see A. SS., Aug.,
       vol. i., p. 503. The later date is imperative because Ugolini
       could not offer prelatures to the Brothers Minor before their
       explicit approbation (June 11, 1219), and this offer had no
       meaning with regard to the Dominicans until after the definitive
       establishment of their Order.

  [13] See the imperial letters of February 10, 1221;
       Huillard-Bréholles, vol. ii., pp. 122-127.

  [14] 2 Cel., 3, 86; Bon., 78; Spec., 27b.

  [15] Vide K. Eubel: Die Bischöfe, Cardinäle und Päpste aus dem
       Minoritenorden bis 1305, 8vo, 1889.

  [16] He was in Northern Italy. Vide Registri: Doc., 17-28.

  [17] Reynerius, cardinal-deacon with the title of S. M. in
       Cosmedin, Bishop of Viterbo (cf. Innocent III., Opera, Migne,
       1, col. ccxiii), 1 Cel., 125. He had been named rector of the
       Duchy of Spoleto, August 3, 1220. Potthast, 6319.

  [18] Giord, 16. The presence of Dominic at an earlier chapter
       had therefore been quite natural.

  [19] This view harmonizes in every particular with the witness
       of 1 Cel., 36 and 37, which shows the Third Order as having been
       quite naturally born of the enthusiasm excited by the preaching
       of Francis immediately after his return from Rome in 1210 (cf.
       Auctor vit. sec.; A. SS., p. 593b). Nothing in any other
       document contradicts it; quite the contrary. Vide 3 Soc., 60.
       Cf. Anon. Perus.; A. SS., p. 600; Bon., 25, 46. Cf. A. SS.,
       pp. 631-634. The first bull which concerns the Brothers of
       Penitence (without naming them) is of December 16, 1221,
       Significatum est. If it really refers to them, as Sbaralea
       thinks, with all those who have interested themselves in the
       question to M. Müller inclusively--but which, it appears, might
       be contested--it is because in 1221 they had made appeal to the
       pope against the podestàs of Faenza and the neighboring cities.
       This evidently supposes an association not recently born.
       Sbaralea, Bull. fr., 1, p. 8; Horoy, vol. iv., col. 49;
       Potthast, 6736.

  [20] Bull Supra montem of August 17, 1289, Potthast. 23044. M.
       Müller has made a luminous study of the origin of this bull; it
       may be considered final in all essential points (Anfänge, pp.
       117-171). By this bull Nicholas IV.--minister-general of the
       Brothers Minor before becoming pope--sought to draw into the
       hands of his Order the direction of all associations of pious
       laics (Third Order of St. Dominic, the Gaudentes, the Humiliati.
       etc.). He desired by that to give a greater impulse to those
       fraternities which depended directly on the court of Rome, and
       augment their power by unifying them.

  [21] Vide Bull Significatum est of December 16, 1221. Cf.
       Supra montem, chap. vii.

  [22] The Rule of the Third Order of the Humiliati, which dates
       from 1201, contains a similar clause. Tiraboschi, vol. ii., p.
       132.

  [23] In the A. SS., Aprilis, vol. ii. p. 600-616. Orlando di
       Chiusi also received the habit from the hands of Francis. Vide
       Instrumentum, etc., below, p. 400. The Franciscan fraternity,
       under the influence of the other third orders, rapidly lost its
       specific character. As to this title, Third Order, it surely had
       originally a hierarchical sense, upon which little by little a
       chronological sense has been superposed. All these questions
       become singularly clearer when they are compared with what is
       known of the Humiliati.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XVI

THE BROTHERS MINOR AND LEARNING

Autumn, 1221-December, 1223

After the chapter of 1221 the evolution of the Order hurried on with a rapidity which nothing
was strong enough to check.

The creation of the ministers was an enormous step in this direction; by the very pressure
of things the latter came to establish a residence; those who command must have their subordinates
within reach, must know at all times where they are; the Brothers, therefore, could no longer
continue to do without convents properly so-called. This change naturally brought about many
others; up to this time they had had no churches. Without churches the friars were only itinerant
preachers, and their purpose could not but be perfectly disinterested; they were, as Francis
had wished, the friendly auxiliaries of the clergy. With churches it was inevitable that they
should first fatally aspire to preach in them and attract the crowd to them, then in some sort
erect them into counter parishes.[1]

The bull of March 22, 1222,[2] shows us the papacy hastening these transformations with all
its power. The pontiff accords to Brother Francis and the other friars the privilege of celebrating
the sacred mysteries in their churches in times of interdict, on the natural condition of not
ringing the bells, of closing the door, and previously expelling those who were excommunicated.

By an astonishing inadvertence the bull itself bears witness to its uselessness, at least for
the time in which it was given: "We accord to you," it runs, "the permission to celebrate the
sacraments in times of interdict in your churches, if you come to have any." This is a new
proof that in 1222 the Order as yet had none; but it is not difficult to see in this very document
a pressing invitation to change their way of working, and not leave this privilege to be of
no avail.

Another document of the same time shows a like purpose, though manifested in another direction.
By the bull Ex parte of March 29, 1222, Honorius III. laid upon the Preachers and Minors of
Lisbon conjointly a singularly delicate mission; he gave them full powers to proceed against
the bishop and clergy of that city, who exacted from the faithful that they should leave to
them by will one-third of their property, and refused the Church's burial service to those
who disobeyed.[3]

The fact that the pope committed to the Brothers the care of choosing what measures they should
take proves how anxious they were at Rome to forget the object for which they had been created,
and to transform them into deputies of the Holy See. It is, therefore, needless to point out
that the mention of Francis's name at the head of the former of these bulls has no significance.
We do not picture the Poverello seeking a privilege for circumstances not yet existing! We
perceive here the influence of Ugolini,[4] who had found the Brother Minor after his own heart
in the person of Elias.

What was Francis doing all this time? We have no knowledge, but the very absence of information,
so abundant for the period that precedes as well as for that which follows, shows plainly enough
that he has quitted Portiuncula, and gone to live in one of those Umbrian hermitages that had
always had so strong an attachment for him.[5] There is hardly a hill in Central Italy that
has not preserved some memento of him. It would be hard to walk half a day between Florence
and Rome without coming upon some hut on a hillside bearing his name or that of one of his
disciples.

There was a time when these huts were inhabited, when in these leafy booths Egidio, Masseo,
Bernardo, Silvestro, Ginepro, and many others whose names history has forgotten, received visits
from their spiritual father, coming to them for their consolation.[6]

They gave him love for love and consolation for consolation. His poor heart had great need
of both, for in his long, sleepless nights it had come to him at times to hear strange voices;
weariness and regret were laying hold on him, and looking over the past he was almost driven
to doubt of himself, his Lady Poverty, and everything.

Between Chiusi and Radicofani--an hour's walk from the village of Sartiano--a few Brothers
had made a shelter which served them by way of hermitage, with a little cabin for Francis in
a retired spot. There he passed one of the most agonizing nights of his life. The thought that
he had exaggerated the virtue of asceticism and not counted enough upon the mercy of God assailed
him, and suddenly he came to regret the use he had made of his life. A picture of what he might
have been, of the tranquil and happy home that might have been his, rose up before him in such
living colors that he felt himself giving way. In vain he disciplined himself with his hempen
girdle until the blood came; the vision would not depart.

It was midwinter; a heavy fall of snow covered the ground; he rushed out without his garment,
and gathering up great heaps of snow began to make a row of images. "See," he said, "here is
thy wife, and behind her are two sons and two daughters, with the servant and the maid carrying
all the baggage."

With this child-like representation of the tyranny of material cares which he had escaped,
he finally put away the temptation.[7]

There is nothing to show whether or not we should fix at the same epoch another incident which
legend gives as taking place at Sartiano. One day a brother of whom he asked, "Whence do you
come?" replied, "From your cell." This simple answer was enough to make the vehement lover
of Poverty refuse to occupy it again. "Foxes have holes," he loved to repeat, "and the birds
of the air have nests, but the Son of man had not where to lay his head. When the Lord spent
forty days and forty nights praying and fasting in the desert, he built himself neither cell
nor house, but made the side of a rock his shelter."[8]

It would be a mistake to think, as some have done, that as time went on Francis changed his
point of view. Certain ecclesiastical writers have assumed that since he desired the multiplication
of his Order, he for that very reason consented to its transformation. The suggestion is specious,
but in this matter we are not left to conjecture; almost everything which was done in the Order
after 1221 was done either without Francis's knowledge or against his will. If one were inclined
to doubt this, it would need only to glance over that most solemn and also most adequate manifesto
of his thought--his Will. There he is shown freed from all the temptations which had at times
made him hesitate in the expression of his ideas, bravely gathering himself up to summon back
the primitive ideal, and set it up in opposition to all the concessions which had been wrung
from his weakness.

The Will is not an appendix to the Rule of 1223, it is almost its revocation. But it would
be a mistake to see in it the first attempt made to return to the early ideal. The last five
years of his life were only one incessant effort at protest, both by his example and his words.

In 1222 he addressed to the brethren of Bologna a letter filled with sad forebodings. In that
city, where the Dominicans, overwhelmed with attentions, were occupied with making themselves
a stronghold in the system of instruction, the Brothers Minor were more than anywhere else
tempted to forsake the way of simplicity and poverty. Francis's warnings had put on such dark
and threatening colors that after the famous earthquake of December 23, 1222, which spread
terror over all northern Italy, there was no hesitation in believing that he had predicted
the catastrophe.[9] He had indeed predicted a catastrophe which was none the less horrible
for being wholly moral, and the vision of which forced from him the most bitter imprecations:

    "Lord Jesus, thou didst choose thine apostles to the number of
    twelve, and if one of them did betray thee, the others,
    remaining united to thee, preached thy holy gospel, filled with
    one and the same inspiration; and behold now, remembering the
    former days, thou hast raised up the Religion of the Brothers in
    order to uphold faith, and that by them the mystery of thy
    gospel may be accomplished. Who will take their place if,
    instead of fulfilling their mission and being shining examples
    for all, they are seen to give themselves up to works of
    darkness? Oh! may they be accursed by thee, Lord, and by all the
    court of heaven, and by me, thine unworthy servant, they who by
    their bad example overturn and destroy all that thou didst do in
    the beginning and ceasest not to do by the holy Brothers of this
    Order."[10]

This passage from Thomas of Celano, the most moderate of the biographers, shows to what a pitch
of vehemence and indignation the gentle Francis could be worked up.

In spite of very natural efforts to throw a veil of reserve over the anguish of the founder
with regard to the future of his spiritual family, we find traces of it at every step. "The
time will come," he said one day, "when our Order will so have lost all good renown that its
members will be ashamed to show themselves by daylight."[11]

He saw in a dream a statue with the head of pure gold, the breast and arms of silver, the body
of crystal, and the legs of iron. He thought it was an omen of the future in store for his
institute.[12]

He believed his sons to be attacked with two maladies, unfaithful at once to poverty and humility;
but perhaps he dreaded for them the demon of learning more than the temptation of riches.

What were his views on the subject of learning? It is probable that he never examined the question
as a whole, but he had no difficulty in seeing that there will always be students enough in
the universities, and that if scientific effort is an homage offered to God, there is no risk
of worshippers of this class being wanting; but in vain he looked about him on all sides, he
saw no one to fulfil the mission of love and humility reserved for his Order, if the friars
came to be unfaithful to it.

Therefore there was something more in his anguish than the grief of seeing his hopes confounded.
The rout of an army is nothing in comparison with the overthrow of an idea; and in him an idea
had been incarnated, the idea of peace and happiness restored to mankind, by the victory of
love over the trammels of material things.

By an ineffable mystery he felt himself the Man of his age, him in whose body are borne all
the efforts, the desires, the aspirations of men; with him, in him, by him humanity yearns
to be renewed, and to use the language of the gospel, born again.

In this lies his true beauty. By this, far more than by a vain conformity, an exterior imitation,
he is a Christ.

He also bears the affliction of the world, and if we will look into the very depths of his
soul we must give this word affliction the largest possible meaning for him as for Jesus. By
their pity they bore the physical sufferings of humanity, but their overwhelming anguish was
something far different from this, it was the birth-throes of the divine. They suffer, because
in them the Word is made flesh, and at Gethsemane, as under the olive-trees of Greccio, they
are in agony "because their own received them not."

Yes, St. Francis forever felt the travail of the transformation taking place in the womb of
humanity, going forward to its divine destiny, and he offered himself, a living oblation, that
in him might take place the mysterious palingenesis.

Do we now understand his pain? He was trembling for the mystery of the gospel. There is in
him something which reminds us of the tremor of life when it stands face to face with death,
something by so much the more painful as we have here to do with moral life.

This explains how the man who would run after ruffians that he might make disciples of them
could be pitiless toward his fellow-laborers who by an indiscreet, however well-intentioned,
zeal forgot their vocation and would transform their Order into a scientific institute.

Under pretext of putting learning at the service of God and of religion, the Church had fostered
the worst of vices, pride. According to some it is her title to glory, but it will be her greatest
shame.

Must we renounce the use of this weapon against the enemies of the faith? she asks. But can
you imagine Jesus joining the school of the rabbins under the pretext of learning how to reply
to them, enfeebling his thought by their dialectic subtleties and fantastic exegesis? He might
perhaps have been a great doctor, but would he have become the Saviour of the world? You feel
that he would not.

When we hear preachers going into raptures over the marvellous spread of the gospel preached
by twelve poor fishermen of Galilee, might we not point out to them that the miracle is at
once more and less astounding than they say? More--for among the twelve several returned to
the shores of their charming lake, and forgetful of the mystic net, thought of the Crucified
One, if they thought of him at all, only to lament him, and not to raise him from the dead
by continuing his work in the four quarters of the world; less--for if even now, in these dying
days of the nineteenth century, preachers would go forth beside themselves with love, sacrificing
themselves for each and all as in the old days their Master did, the miracle would be repeated
again.

But no; theology has killed religion. The clergy repeat to satiety that we must not confound
the two; but what good does this do if in practice we do not distinguish them?

Never was learning more eagerly coveted than in the thirteenth century. The Empire and the
Church were anxiously asking of it the arguments with which they might defend their opposing
claims. Innocent III. sends the collection of his Decretals to the University of Bologna and
heaps favors upon it. Frederick II. founds that of Naples, and the Patarini themselves send
their sons from Tuscany and Lombardy to study at Paris.

We remember the success of Francis's preaching at Bologna,[13] in August, 1220; at the same
period he had strongly reprimanded Pietro Staccia, the provincial minister and a doctor of
laws, not only for having installed the Brothers in a house which appeared to belong to them,
but especially for having organized a sort of college there.

It appears that the minister paid no attention to these reproaches. When Francis became aware
of his obstinacy he cursed him with frightful vehemence; his indignation was so great that
when, later on, Pietro Staccia was about to die and his numerous friends came to entreat Francis
to revoke his malediction, all their efforts were in vain.[14]

In the face of this attitude of the founder it is very difficult to believe in the authenticity
of the note purporting to be addressed to Anthony of Padua:

    "To my very dear Anthony, brother Francis, greetings in Christ.

    "It pleases me that you interpret to the Brothers the sacred
    writings and theology, in such a way, however (conformably to
    our Rule), that the spirit of holy prayer be not extinguished
    either in you or in the others, which I desire earnestly.
    Greetings."

Must we see in this a pious fraud to weaken the numberless clear declarations of Francis against
learning?

It is difficult to picture to ourselves the rivalry which existed at this time between the
Dominicans and Franciscans in the attempt to draw the most illustrious masters into their respective
Orders. Petty intrigues were organized, in which the devotees had each his part, to lead such
or such a famous doctor to assume the habit.[15] If the object of St. Francis had been scientific,
the friars of Bologna, Paris, and Oxford could not have done more.[16]

The current was so strong that the elder Orders were swept away in it whether they would or
no; twenty years later the Cistercians also desired to become legists, theologians, decretalists,
and the rest.

Perhaps Francis did not in the outset perceive the gravity of the danger, but illusion was
no longer possible, and from this time he showed, as we have seen, an implacable firmness.
If later on his thought was travestied, the guilty ones--the popes and most of the ministers-general--were
obliged to resort to feats of prestidigitation that are not to their credit. "Suppose," he
would say, "that you had subtility and learning enough to know all things, that you were acquainted
with all languages, the courses of the stars, and all the rest, what is there in that to be
proud of? A single demon knows more on these subjects than all the men in this world put together.[17]
But there is one thing that the demon is incapable of, and which is the glory of man: to be
faithful to God."[18]

Definite information with regard to the chapters of 1222 and 1223 is wanting. The proposed
modifications of the project of 1221 were discussed by the ministers[19] and afterward definitively
settled by Cardinal Ugolini. The latter had long conferences on the subject with Francis, who
has himself given us the account of them.[20]

The result of them all was the Rule of 1223. Very soon a swarm of marvellous stories, which
it would be tedious to examine in detail, came to be clustered around the origin of this document;
all that we need to retain of them is the memory that they keep of the struggles of Francis
against the ministers for the preservation of his ideal.

Before going to Rome to ask for the final approbation he had meditated long in the solitude
of Monte Colombo, near Rieti. This hill was soon represented as a new Sinai, and the disciples
pictured their master on its heights receiving another Decalogue from the hands of Jesus himself.[21]

Angelo Clareno, one of the most complacent narrators of these traditions, takes upon himself
to point out their slight value; he shows us Honorious III. modifying an essential passage
in the plan at the last moment.[22] I have already so far described this Rule that there is
no need to return to the subject here.

It was approved November 25, 1223.[23] Many memories appear to have clustered about the journey
of Francis to Rome. One day Cardinal Ugolini, whose hospitality he had accepted, was much surprised,
and his guests as well, to find him absent as they were about to sit down at table, but they
soon saw him coming, carrying a quantity of pieces of dry bread, which he joyfully distributed
to all the noble company. His host, somewhat abashed by the proceeding, having undertaken after
the meal to reproach him a little, Francis explained that he had no right to forget, for a
sumptuous feast, the bread of charity on which he was fed every day, and that he desired thus
to show his brethren that the richest table is not worth so much to the poor in spirit as this
table of the Lord.[24]

We have seen that during the earlier years the Brothers Minor had been in the habit of earning
their bread by going out as servants. Some of them, a very small number, had continued to do
so. Little by little, in this matter also all had been changed. Under color of serving, the
friars entered the families of the highest personages of the pontifical court, and became their
confidential attendants; instead of submitting themselves to all, as the Rule of 1221 ordained,
they were above everyone.

Entirely losing sight of the apostolic life, they became courtiers of a special type; their
character, half ecclesiastic and half lay, rendered them capable of carrying out a number of
delicate missions and of playing a part in the varied intrigues for which the greater number
of Roman prelates have always seemed to live.[25] By way of protest Francis had only one weapon,
his example.

    One day, the Speculum relates, the Blessed Francis came to Rome
    to see the Bishop of Ostia (Ugolini), and after having remained
    some time at his house, he went also to visit Cardinal Leo, who
    had a great devotion for him.

    It was winter; the cold, the wind, the rain made any journey
    impossible, so the cardinal begged him to pass a few days in his
    house and to take his food there, like the other poor folk who
    came there to eat. ... "I will give you," he added, "a good
    lodging, quite retired, where if you like you may pray and eat."
    Then Brother Angelo, one of the twelve first disciples, who
    lived with the cardinal, said to Francis: "There is, close by
    here, a great tower standing by itself and very quiet; you will
    be there as in a hermitage." Francis went to see it and it
    pleased him. Then, returning to the cardinal, "Monsignor," he
    said, "it is possible that I may pass a few days with you." The
    latter was very joyful, and Brother Angelo went to prepare the
    tower for the Blessed Francis and his companion.

    But the very first night, when he would have slept, the demons
    came and smote him. Calling then to his companion, "Brother," he
    said, "the demons have come and smitten me with violence; remain
    near me, I beg, for I am afraid here alone."

    He was trembling in all his members, like one who has a fever.
    They passed the night both without sleeping. "The demons are
    commissioned with the chastisements of God," said Francis; "as a
    podestà sends his executioner to punish the criminal, so God
    sends demons, who in this are his ministers.... Why has he sent
    them to me? Perhaps this is the reason: The cardinal desired to
    be kind to me, and I have truly great need of repose, but the
    Brothers who are out in the world, suffering hunger and a
    thousand tribulations, and also those others who are in
    hermitages or in miserable houses, when they hear of my sojourn
    with a cardinal will be moved to repine. 'We endure all
    privations,' they will say, 'while he has all that he can
    desire; 'but I ought to give them a good example--that is my
    true mission." ...

    Early next morning, therefore he quitted the tower, and having
    told the cardinal all, took leave of him and returned to the
    hermitage of Monte Colombo, near Rieti. "They think me a holy
    man," he said, "and see, it needed demons to cast me out of
    prison."[26]

This story, notwithstanding its strange coloring, shows plainly how strong was his instinct
for independence. To compare the hospitality of a cardinal to an imprisonment! He spoke better
than he knew, characterizing in one word the relation of the Church to his Order.

The lark was not dead; in spite of cold and the north wind it gayly took its flight to the
vale of Rieti.

It was mid-December. An ardent desire to observe to the life the memories of Christmas had
taken possession of Francis. He opened his heart to one of his friends, the knight Giovanni
di Greccio, who undertook the necessary preparations.

The imitation of Jesus has in all times been the very centre of Christianity; but one must
be singularly spiritual to be satisfied with the imitation of the heart. With most men there
is need that this should be preceded and sustained by an external imitation. It is indeed the
spirit that gives life, but it is only in the country of the angels that one can say that the
flesh profiteth nothing.

In the Middle Ages a religious festival was before all things else a representation, more or
less faithful, of the event which it recalled; hence the santons of Provence, the processions
of the Palmesel, the Holy Supper of Maundy Thursday, the Road to the Cross of Good Friday,
the drama of the Resurrection of Easter, and the flaming tow of Whitsunday. Francis was too
thoroughly Italian not to love these festivals where every visible thing speaks of God and
of his love.

The population of Greccio and its environs was, therefore, convoked, as well as the Brothers
from the neighboring monasteries. On the evening of the vigil of Christmas one might have seen
the faithful hastening to the hermitage by every path with torches in their hands, making the
forests ring with their joyful hymns.

Everyone was rejoicing--Francis most of all. The knight had prepared a stable with straw, and
brought an ox and an ass, whose breath seemed to give warmth to the poor bambino, benumbed
with the cold. At the sight the saint felt tears of pity bedew his face; he was no longer in
Greccio, his heart was in Bethlehem.

Finally they began to chant matins; then the mass was begun, and Francis, as deacon, read the
Gospel. Already hearts were touched by the simple recital of the sacred legend in a voice so
gentle and so fervent, but when he preached, his emotion soon overcame the audience; his voice
had so unutterable a tenderness that they also forgot everything, and were living over again
the feeling of the shepherds of Judea who in those old days went to adore the God made man,
born in a stable.[27]

Toward the close of the thirteenth century, the author of the Stabat Mater dolorosa, Giacopone
dei Todi, that Franciscan of genius who spent a part of his life in dungeons, inspired by the
memory of Greccio, composed another Stabat, that of joy, Stabat Mater speciosa. This hymn of
Mary beside the manger is not less noble than that of Mary at the foot of the cross. The sentiment
is even more tender, and it is hard to explain its neglect except by an unjust caprice of fate.

  Stabat Mater speciosa
  Juxtum foenum gaudiosa
  Dum jacebat parvulus.

  Quæ gaudebat et ridebat
  Exsultabat cum videbat
  Nati partum inclyti.

  Fac me vere congaudere
  Jesulino cohærere
  Donec ego vixero.[28]

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] All this took place with prodigious rapidity. The dimensions
       of the Basilica of Assisi, the plans of which were made in 1228,
       no more permits it to be considered as a conventual chapel than
       Santa-Croce in Florence, San Francesco in Sienna, or the
       Basilica San Antonio at Padua, monuments commenced between 1230
       and 1240. Already before 1245 one party of the episcopate utters
       a cry of alarm, in which he speaks of nothing less than of
       closing the door of the secular churches, which have become
       useless. He complains with incredible bitterness that the Minor
       and Preaching Friars have absolutely supplanted the parochial
       clergy. This letter may be found in Pierre de la Vigne,
       addressed at once to Frederick II. and the Council of Lyons:
       Epistolæ, Basle, 1740, 2 vols., vol. i., pp. 220-222. It is
       much to be desired that a critical text should be given. See
       also the satire against the two new Orders, done in rhyme about
       1242 by Pierre de la Vigne, and of which, allowing for possible
       exaggerations, the greater number of the incidents cannot have
       been invented: E. du Méril, Poésies pop. lat., pp. 153-177,
       Paris, 8vo, 1847.

   [2] And not of the 29th, as Sbaralea will have it. Bull. fr.,
       vol. i., n. 10. Horoy, vol. iv., col. 129; the original, still
       in the archives of Assisi, bears the title: Datum Anagnie 11
       Kalendas Aprilis pontificatus nostri anno sexto.

   [3] Potthast, 6809; Horoy, iv., col. 129. See also the bull
       Ecce Venit Deus of July 14, 1227; L. Auvray: Registres de
       Grégoire IX., no. 129; cf. 153; Potthast, 8027 and 8028, 8189.

   [4] He had finished his mission as legate in Lombardy toward the
       close of September, 1221 (see his register; cf. Böhmer, Acta
       imp. sel. doc., 951). In the spring of 1222 we find him
       continually near the pope at Anagni, Veroli, Alatri (Potthast,
       6807, 6812, 6849). The Holy See had still at that time a marked
       predilection for the Preachers; the very trite privilege of
       power to celebrate the offices in times of interdict had been
       accorded them March 7, 1222, but instead of the formula usual in
       such cases, a revised form had been made expressly for them,
       with a handsome eulogy. Ripolli, Bull. Præd., t. i., p. 15.

   [5] 2 Cel., 3, 93: Subtrahebat se a consortio fratrum.

   [6] It is needless to say that local traditions, in this case,
       though as to detail they must be accepted only with great
       reserve, yet on the whole are surely true. The geography of St.
       Francis's life is yet to be made.

   [7] 2 Cel., 3, 59; Bon., 60; Conform., 122b, 2.

   [8] 2 Cel., 3, 5; Spec., 12a; Conform., 169b, 2.

   [9] Eccl., 6. Vide Liebermann's text, Mon. Germ. hist.
       Script., t. 28, p. 663.

  [10] 2 Cel., 3, 93; Bon., 104 and 105; Conform., 101a, 2.

  [11] 2 Cel., 3, 93; Spec., 49b; 182a; Conform., 182a, 1;
       Tribul., f^o 5a; 2 Cel., 3, 98; 113; 115; 1 Cel., 28, 50; 96;
       103; 104; 108; 111; 118.

  [12] 2 Cel., 3, 27; Spec., 38b; Conform., 181b, 1;
       Tribul., 7b. Cf. Spec., 220b; Conform., 103b.

  [13] Francis's successors were nearly all without exception
       students of Bologna. Pietro di Catana was doctor of laws, as
       also Giovanni Parenti (Giord., 51).--Elias had been scriptor
       at Bologna.--Alberto of Pisa had been minister there (Eccl.,
       6).--Aymon had been reader there (Eccl., 6).--Crescentius wrote
       works on jurisprudence (Conform., 121b, 1, etc., etc.).

  [14] This name cannot be warranted; he is called Giovanni di
       Laschaccia in a passage of the Conformities (104a, 1); Pietro
       Schiaccia in the Italian MS. of the Tribulations (f^o 75a);
       Petrus Stacia in the Laurentinian MS. (13b; cf. Archiv., ii.,
       p. 258). Tribul., 13b; Spec., 184b. This story has been much
       amplified in other places. Spec., 126a; Conform., 104b, 1.

  [15] Vide Eccl., 3: History of the entrance of Adam of Oxford
       into the Order. Cf., Chartularium Univ. Par., t. i., nos. 47
       and 49.

  [16] Eccleston's entire chronicle is a living witness to this.

  [17] Admonitio, v.; cf. Conform., 141a.

       Compare the Constitutiones antiquæ (Speculum, Morin, iii.,
       f^o 195b-206) with the Rule. From the opening chapters the
       contradiction is apparent: Ordinamus quod nullus recipiatur in
       ordine nostro nisi sit talis clericus qui sit competenter
       instructus in grammatica vel logica; aut nisi sit talis laicus
       de cujus ingressu esset valde celebris et edificatio in populo
       et in clero. Rule of 1221, cap. vii. See also the
       Exposition of the Rule of Bonaventura. Speculum, Morin, iii.,
       f^o 21-40.

  [18] Upon Francis's attitude toward learning see Tribul.,
       Laur., 14b; Spec., 184a; 2 Cel., 3, 8; 48; 100; 116; 119;
       120-124. Bon., chap. 152, naturally expresses only Bonaventura's
       views. See especially Rule of 1221, cap. xvii.; of 1223, cap. x.

  [19] Spec., 7b: Fecit Franciscus regulam quam papa Honorius
       confirmavit cum bulla, de qua regula multa fuerunt extracta per
       ministros contra voluntatem b. Francisci. Cf. 2 Cel., 3, 136.

  [20] Bull Quo elongati of September 28, 1230; Sbaralea, i., p.
       56.

  [21] Bon., 55 and 56 [3 Soc., 62]; Spec., 76; 124a; Tribul.,
       Laur., 17b-19b; Ubertini, Arbor. V., 5; Conform., 88a, 2.

  [22] Tribul., Laur., 19a; Archiv., t. iii., p. 601. Cf. A.
       SS., p. 638e.

  [23] Potthast, 7108.--The work of this bull was completed by
       that of December 18, 1223. (The original of the Sacro Convento
       bears Datum Laterani XV. Kal. jan.) Fratrem Minorum:
       Potthast, 7123.

  [24] 2 Cel., 3, 19; Bon., 95; Spec., 18b; Conform., 171a, 1.

  [25] 2 Cel., 3, 61 and 62. Cf. Eccl., 6, the account of Rod. de
       Rosa.

  [26] Spec., 47b ff.; 2 Cel., 3, 61; Bon., 84 and 85.

  [27] 1 Cel., 84-87; Bon., 149.

  [28] This little poem was published entire by M. Ozanam in vol.
       v. of his works, p. 184.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XVII

THE STIGMATA

1224

The upper valley of the Arno forms in the very centre of Italy a country apart, the Casentino,
which through centuries had its own life, somewhat like an island in the midst of the ocean.

The river flows out from it by a narrow defile at the south, and on all other sides the Apennines
encircle it with a girdle of inaccessible mountains.[1]

This plain, some ten leagues in diameter, is enlivened with picturesque villages, finely posted
on hillocks at the base of which flows the stream; here are Bibbiena, Poppi, the antique Romena
sung by Dante, the Camaldoli, and up there on the crest Chiusi, long ago the capital of the
country, with the ruins of Count Orlando's castle.

The people are charming and refined; the mountains have sheltered them from wars, and on every
side we see the signs of labor, prosperity, a gentle gayety. At any moment we might fancy ourselves
transported into some valley of the Vivarais or Provence. The vegetation on the borders of
the Arno is thoroughly tropical; the olive and the mulberry marry with the vine. On the lower
hill-slopes are wheat fields divided by meadows; then come the chestnuts and the oaks, higher
still the pine, the fir, the larch, and above all the bare rock.

Among all the peaks there is one which especially attracts the attention; instead of a rounded
and so to say flattened top, it uplifts itself slender, proud, isolated; it is the Verna.[2]

One might think it an immense rock fallen from the sky. It is in fact an erratic block set
there, a little like a petrified Noah's ark on the summit of Mount Ararat. The basaltic mass,
perpendicular on all sides, is crowned with a plateau planted with pines and gigantic beeches,
and accessible only by a footpath.[3]

Such was the solitude which Orlando had given to Francis, and to which Francis had already
many a time come for quiet and contemplation.

Seated upon the few stones of the Penna,[4] he heard only the whispering of the wind among
the trees, but in the splendor of the sunrise or the sunset he could see nearly all the districts
in which he had sown the seed of the gospel: the Romagna and the March of Ancona, losing themselves
on the horizon in the waves of the Adriatic; Umbria, and farther away, Tuscany, vanishing in
the waters of the Mediterranean.

The impression on this height is not crushing like that which one has in the Alps: a feeling
infinitely calm and sweet flows over you; you are high enough to judge of men from above, not
high enough to forget their existence.

Besides the wide horizons, Francis found there other objects of delight; in this forest, one
of the noblest in Europe, live legions of birds, which never having been hunted are surprisingly
tame.[5] Subtile perfumes arise from the ground, and in the midst of borage and lichens frail
and exquisite cyclamens blossom in fantastic variety.

He desired to return thither after the chapter of 1224. This meeting, held in the beginning
of June, was the last at which he was present. The new Rule was there put into the hands of
the ministers, and the mission to England decided upon.

It was in the early days of August that Francis took his way toward Verna. With him were only
a few Brothers, Masseo, Angelo, and Leo. The first had been charged to direct the little band,
and spare him all duties except that of prayer.[6]

They had been two days on the road when it became necessary to seek for an ass for Francis,
who was too much enfeebled to go farther on foot.

The Brothers, in asking for this service, had not concealed the name of their master, and the
peasant, to whom they had addressed themselves respectfully, asked leave to guide the beast
himself. After going on a certain time, "Is it true," he said, "that you are Brother Francis
of Assisi?" "Very well," he went on, after the answer in the affirmative, "apply yourself to
be as good as folk say you are, that they may not be deceived in their expectation; that is
my advice." Francis immediately got down from his beast and, prostrating himself before the
peasant, thanked him warmly.[7]

Meanwhile the warmest hour of the day had come on. The peasant, exhausted with fatigue, little
by little forgot his surprise and joy; one does not feel the burning of thirst the less for
walking beside a saint. He had begun to regret his kindness, when Francis pointed with his
finger to a spring, unknown till then, and which has never since been seen.[8]

At last they arrived at the foot of the last precipice. Before scaling it they paused to rest
a little under a great oak, and immediately flocks of birds gathered around them, testifying
their joy by songs and flutterings of their wings. Hovering around Francis, they alighted on
his head, his shoulders, or his arms. "I see," he said joyfully to his companions, "that it
is pleasing to our Lord Jesus that we live in this solitary mount, since our brothers and sisters
the birds have shown such great delight at our coming."[9]

This mountain was at once his Tabor and his Calvary. We must not wonder, then, that legends
have flourished here even more numerously than at any other period of his life; the greater
number of them have the exquisite charm of the little flowers, rosy and perfumed, which hide
themselves modestly at the feet of the fir-trees of Verna.

The summer nights up there are of unparalleled beauty: nature, stifled by the heat of the sun,
seems then to breathe anew. In the trees, behind the rocks, on the turf, a thousand voices
rise up, sweetly harmonizing with the murmur of the great woods; but among all these voices
there is not one which forces itself upon the attention, it is a melody which you enjoy without
listening. You let your eyes wander over the landscape, still for long hours illumined with
hieratic tints by the departed star of day, and the peaks of the Apennines, flooded with rainbow
hues, drop down into your soul what the Franciscan poet called the nostalgia of the everlasting
hills.[10]

More than anyone Francis felt it. The very evening of their arrival, seated upon a mound in
the midst of his Brothers, he gave them his directions for their dwelling-place.

The quiet of nature would have sufficed to sow in their hearts some germs of sadness, and the
voice of the master harmonized with the emotion of the last gleams of light; he spoke with
them of his approaching death, with the regret of the laborer overtaken by the shades of evening
before the completion of his task, with the sighs of the father who trembles for the future
of his children.[11]

For himself he desired from this time to prepare himself for death by prayer and contemplation;
and he begged them to protect him from all intrusion. Orlando,[12] who had already come to
bid them welcome and offer his services, had at his request hastily caused a hut of boughs
to be made, at the foot of a great beech. It was there that he desired to dwell, at a stone's
throw from the cells inhabited by his companions. Brother Leo was charged to bring him each
day that which he would need.

He retired to it immediately after this memorable conversation, but several days later, embarrassed
no doubt by the pious curiosity of the friars, who watched all his movements, he went farther
into the woods, and on Assumption Day he there began the Lent which he desired to observe in
honor of the Archangel Michael and the celestial host.

Genius has its modesty as well as love. The poet, the artist, the saint, need to be alone when
the Spirit comes to move them. Every effort of thought, of imagination, or of will is a prayer,
and one does not pray in public.

Alas for the man who has not in his inmost heart some secret which may not be told, because
it cannot be spoken, and because if it were spoken it could not be understood. SECRETUM MEUM
MIHI! Jesus felt it deeply: the raptures of Tabor are brief; they may not be told.

Before these soul mysteries materialists and devotees often meet and are of one mind in demanding
precision in those things which can the least endure it.

The believer asks in what spot on the Verna Francis received the stigmata; whether the seraph
which appeared to him was Jesus or a celestial spirit; what words were spoken as he imprinted
them upon him;[13] and he no more understands that hour when Francis swooned with woe and love
than the materialist, who asks to see with his eyes and touch with his hands the gaping wound.

Let us try to avoid these extremes. Let us hear what the documents give us, and not seek to
do them violence, to wrest from them what they do not tell, what they cannot tell.

They show us Francis distressed for the future of the Order, and with an infinite desire for
new spiritual progress.

He was consumed with the fever of saints, that need of immolation which wrung from St. Theresa
the passionate cry, "Either to suffer or to die!" He was bitterly reproaching himself with
not having been found worthy of martyrdom, not having been able to give himself for Him who
gave himself for us.

We touch here upon one of the most powerful and mysterious elements of the Christian life.
We may very easily not understand it, but we may not for all that deny it. It is the root of
true mysticism.[14] The really new thing that Jesus brought into the world was that, feeling
himself in perfect union with the heavenly Father, he called all men to unite themselves to
him and through him to God: "I am the vine, and ye are the branches; he who abides in me and
I in him brings forth much fruit, for apart from me ye can do nothing."

The Christ not only preached this union, he made it felt. On the evening of his last day he
instituted its sacrament, and there is probably no sect which denies that communion is at once
the symbol, the principle, and the end of the religious life. For eighteen centuries Christians
who differ on everything else cannot but look with one accord to him who in the upper chamber
instituted the rite of the new times.

The night before he died he took the bread and brake it and distributed it to them, saying,
"TAKE AND EAT, FOR THIS IS MY BODY."

Jesus, while presenting union with himself as the very foundation of the new life,[15] took
care to point out to his brethren that this union was before all things a sharing in his work,
in his struggles, and his sufferings: "Let him that would be my disciple take up his cross
and follow me."

St. Paul entered so perfectly into the Master's thought in this respect that he uttered a few
years later this cry of a mysticism that has never been equalled: "I have been crucified with
Christ, yet I live ... or rather, it is not I who live, but Christ who liveth in me." This
utterance is not an isolated exclamation with him, it is the very centre of his religious consciousness,
and he goes so far as to say, at the risk of scandalizing many a Christian: "I fill up in my
body that which is lacking of the sufferings of Christ, for his body's sake, which is the Church."

Perhaps it has not been useless to enter into these thoughts, to show to what point Francis
during the last years of his life, where he renews in his body the passion of Christ, is allied
to the apostolic tradition.

In the solitudes of the Verna, as formerly at St. Damian, Jesus presented himself to him under
his form of the Crucified One, the man of sorrows.[16]

That this intercourse has been described to us in a poetic and inexact form is nothing surprising.
It is the contrary that would be surprising. In the paroxysms of divine love there are ineffabilia
which, far from being able to relate them or make them understood, we can hardly recall to
our own minds.

Francis on the Verna was even more absorbed than usual in his ardent desire to suffer for Jesus
and with him. His days went by divided between exercises of piety in the humble sanctuary on
the mountain-top and meditation in the depths of the forest. It even happened to him to forget
the services, and to remain several days alone in some cave of the rock, going over in his
heart the memories of Golgotha. At other times he would remain for long hours at the foot of
the altar, reading and re-reading the Gospel, and entreating God to show him the way in which
he ought to walk.[17]

The book almost always opened of itself to the story of the Passion, and this simple coincidence,
though easy enough to explain, was enough of itself to excite him.

The vision of the Crucified One took the fuller possession of his faculties as the day of the
Elevation of the Holy Cross drew near (September 14th), a festival now relegated to the background,
but in the thirteenth century celebrated with a fervor and zeal very natural for a solemnity
which might be considered the patronal festival of the Crusades.

Francis doubled his fastings and prayers, "quite transformed into Jesus by love and compassion,"
says one of the legends. He passed the night before the festival alone in prayer, not far from
the hermitage. In the morning he had a vision. In the rays of the rising sun, which after the
chill of night came to revive his body, he suddenly perceived a strange form.

A seraph, with outspread wings, flew toward him from the edge of the horizon, and bathed his
soul in raptures unutterable. In the centre of the vision appeared a cross, and the seraph
was nailed upon it. When the vision disappeared, he felt sharp sufferings mingling with the
ecstasy of the first moments. Stirred to the very depths of his being, he was anxiously seeking
the meaning of it all, when he perceived upon his body the stigmata of the Crucified.[18]

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] The passes that give access to the Casentino have all about
       one thousand metres of altitude. Until the most recent years
       there was no road properly so called.

   [2] In France Mount Aiguille, one of the seven wonders of
       Dauphiny, presents the same aspect and the same geological
       formation. St. Odile also recalls the Verna, but is very much
       smaller.

   [3] The summit has an altitude of 1269 metres. In Italian they
       call it the Verna, in Latin Alvernus. The etymology, which
       has tested the acuteness of the learned, appears to be very
       simple; the verb vernare, used by Dante, signifies make cold,
       freeze.

   [4] Name of the highest point on the plateau. Hardly
       three-quarters of an hour from the monastery, and not two hours
       and a half, as these worthy anchorites believed. This is said
       for the benefit of tourists ... and pilgrims.

   [5] The forest has been preserved as a relic. Alexander IV.
       fulminated excommunication against whomever should cut down the
       firs of Verna. As to the birds, it is enough to pass a day at
       the monastery to be amazed at their number and variety. M. C.
       Beni has begun at Stia (in Casentino) an ornithological
       collection which already includes more than five hundred and
       fifty varieties.

   [6] 1 Cel., 91; Bon., 188; Fior. i., consid.

   [7] Fior. i., consid.; Conform., 176b, 1.

   [8] Cel., 2, 15; Bon., 100. Fior. i., consid.

   [9] Bon., 118. Fior. i., consid.

  [10] 2 Cel., 100.

  [11] Fior. ii., consid.

  [12] The ruins of the castle of Chiusi are three quarters of an
       hour from Verna.

  [13] Fior. iv. and v. consid. These two considerations appear
       to be the result of a reworking of the primitive document. The
       latter no doubt included the three former, which the continuer
       has interpolated and lengthened. Cf. Conform., 231a, 1;
       Spec., 91b, 92a, 97; A. SS., pp. 860 ff.

  [14] In current language we often include under the word
       mysticism all the tendencies--often far from Christian--which
       give predominance in the religious life to vague poetic
       elements, impulses of the heart. The name of mystic ought to be
       applied only to those Christians to whom immediate relations
       with Jesus form the basis of the religious life. In this sense
       St. Paul (whose theologico-philosophical system is one of the
       most powerful efforts of the human mind to explain sin and
       redemption) is at the same time the prince of mystics.

  [15] He did not desire to institute a religion, for he felt the
       vanity of observances and dogmas. (The apostles continued to
       frequent the Jewish temple. Acts, ii., 46; iii., 1; v., 25;
       xxi., 26.) He desired to inoculate the world with a new life.

  [16] 2 Cel., 3, 29; cf. 1 Cel., 115; 3 Soc., 13 and 14; 2 Cel.,
       1, 6; 2 Cel., 3, 123 and 131; Bon., 57; 124; 203; 204; 224; 225;
       309; 310; 311; Conform., 229b ff.

  [17] 1 Cel., 91-94; Bon., 189, 190.

  [18] See the annotations of Brother Leo upon the autograph of
       St. Francis (Crit. Study, p. 357) and 1 Cel., 94, 95; Bon., 191,
       192, 193 (3 Soc., 69, 70); Fior. iii. consid. Cf. Auct. vit.
       sec.; A. SS. p. 649. It is to be noted that Thomas of Celano (1
       Cel., 95), as well as all the primitive documents, describe the
       stigmata as being fleshy excrescences, recalling in form and
       color the nails with which the limbs of Jesus were pierced. No
       one speaks of those gaping, sanguineous wounds which were
       imagined later. Only the mark at the side was a wound, whence at
       times exuded a little blood. Finally, Thomas of Celano says that
       after the seraphic vision began to appear, coeperunt apparere
       signa clavorum. Vide Appendix: Study of the Stigmata.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XVII

THE CANTICLE OF THE SUN

Autumn, 1224-Autumn, 1225

The morning after St. Michael's Day (September 30, 1224) Francis quitted Verna and went to
Portiuncula. He was too much exhausted to think of making the journey on foot, and Count Orlando
put a horse at his disposal.

We can imagine the emotion with which he bade adieu to the mountain on which had been unfolded
the drama of love and pain which had consummated the union of his entire being with the Crucified
One.

  Amor, amor, Gesu desideroso,
  Amor voglio morire,
  Te abrazando
  Amor, dolce Gesu, meo sposo,
  Amor, amor, la morte te domando,
  Amor, amor, Gesu si pietoso
  Tu me te dai in te transformato
  Pensa ch'io vo spasmando
  Non so o io me sia
  Gesu speranza mia
  Ormai va, dormi in amore.

So sang Giacopone dei Todi in the raptures of a like love.[1]

If we are to believe a recently published document,[2] Brother Masseo, one of those who remained
on the Verna, made a written account of the events of this day.

They set out early in the morning. Francis, after having given his directions to the Brothers,
had had a look and a word for everything around; for the rocks, the flowers, the trees, for
brother hawk, a privileged character which was authorized to enter his cell at all times, and
which came every morning, with the first glimmer of dawn, to remind him of the hour of service.[3]

Then the little band set forth upon the path leading to Monte-Acuto.[4] Arrived at the gap
from whence one gets the last sight of the Verna, Francis alighted from his horse, and kneeling
upon the earth, his face turned toward the mountain, "Adieu," he said, "mountain of God, sacred
mountain, mons coagulatus, mons pinguis, mons in quo bene placitum est Deo habitare; adieu
Monte-Verna, may God bless thee, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit; abide in peace;
we shall never see one another more."

Has not this artless scene a delicious and poignant sweetness? He must surely have uttered
these words, in which suddenly the Italian does not suffice and Francis is obliged to resort
to the mystical language of the breviary to express his feelings.

A few minutes later the rock of the ecstacy had disappeared. The descent into the valley is
rapid. The Brothers had decided to spend the night at Monte-Casale, the little hermitage above
Borgo San-Sepolcro. All of them, even those who were to remain on the Verna, were still following
their master. As for him, absorbed in thought he had become entirely oblivious to what was
going on, and did not even perceive the noisy enthusiasm which his passage aroused in the numerous
villages along the Tiber.

At Borgo San-Sepolcro he received a real ovation without even then coming to himself; but when
they had some time quitted the town, he seemed suddenly to awake, and asked his companion if
they ought not soon to arrive there.[5]

The first evening at Monte Casale was marked by a miracle. Francis healed a friar who was possessed.[6]
The next morning, having decided to pass several days in this hermitage, he sent the brothers
back to the Verna, and with them Count Orlando's horse.

In one of the villages through which they had passed the day before a woman had been lying
several days between death and life unable to give birth to her child. Those about her had
only learned of the passage of the saint through their village when he was too far distant
to be overtaken. We may judge of the joy of these poor people when the rumor was spread that
he was about to return. They went to meet him, and were terribly disappointed on finding only
the friars. Suddenly an idea occurred to them: taking the bridle of the horse consecrated by
the touch of Francis's hands, they carried it to the sufferer, who, having laid it upon her
body, gave birth to her child without the slightest pain.[7]

This miracle, established by narratives entirely authentic, shows the degree of enthusiasm
felt by the people for the person of Francis. As for him, after a few days at Monte-Casale,
he set out with Brother Leo for Città di Castello. He there healed a woman suffering from frightful
nervous disorders, and remained an entire month preaching in this city and its environs. When
he once more set forth winter had almost closed in. A peasant lent him his ass, but the roads
were so bad that they were unable to reach any sort of shelter before nightfall. The unhappy
travellers were obliged to pass the night under a rock; the shelter was more than rudimentary,
the wind drifted the snow in upon them, and nearly froze the unlucky peasant, who with abominable
oaths heaped curses on Francis; but the latter replied with such cheerfulness that he made
him at last forget both the cold and his bad humor.

On the morrow the saint reached Portiuncula. He seems to have made only a brief halt there,
and to have set forth again almost immediately to evangelize Southern Umbria.

It is impossible to follow him in this mission. Brother Elias accompanied him, but so feeble
was he that Elias could not conceal his uneasiness as to his life.[8]

Ever since his return from Syria (August, 1220), he had been growing continually weaker, but
his fervor had increased from day to day. Nothing could check him, neither suffering nor the
entreaties of the Brothers; seated on an ass he would sometimes go over three or four villages
in one day. Such excessive toil brought on an infirmity even more painful than any he had hitherto
suffered from: he was threatened with loss of sight.[9]

Meanwhile a sedition had forced Honorius III. to leave Rome (end of April, 1225). After passing
a few weeks at Tivoli, he established himself at Rieti, where he remained until the end of
1226.[10]

The pope's arrival had drawn to this city, with the entire pontifical court, several physicians
of renown; Cardinal Ugolini, who had come in the pope's train, hearing of Francis's malady,
summoned him to Rieti for treatment. But notwithstanding Brother Elias's entreaties Francis
hesitated a long time as to accepting the invitation.[11] It seemed to him that a sick man
has but one thing to do; place himself purely and simply in the hands of the heavenly Father.
What is pain to a soul that is fixed in God![12]

Elias, however, at last overcame his objections, and the journey was determined upon, but first
Francis desired to go and take leave of Clara, and enjoy a little rest near her.

He remained at St. Damian much longer than he had proposed to do[13] (end of July to beginning
of September, 1225). His arrival at this beloved monastery was marked by a terrible aggravation
of his malady. For fifteen days he was so completely blind that he could not even distinguish
light. The care lavished upon him produced no result, since every day he passed long hours
in weeping--tears of penitence, he said, but also of regret.[14] Ah, how different they were
from those tears of his moments of inspiration and emotion, which had flowed over a countenance
all illumined with joy! They had seen him, in such moments, take up two bits of wood, and,
accompanying himself with this rustic violin, improvise French songs in which he would pour
out the abundance of his heart.[15]

But the radiance of genius and hope had become dimmed. Rachel weeps for her children, and will
not be comforted because they are not. There are in the tears of Francis this same quia non
sunt for his spiritual sons.

But if there are irremediable pains there are none which may not be at once elevated and softened,
when we endure them at the side of those who love us.

In this respect his companions could not be of much help to him. Moral consolations are possible
only from our peers, or when two hearts are united by a mystical passion so great that they
mingle and understand one another.

"Ah, if the Brothers knew what I suffer," St. Francis said a few days before the impression
of the stigmata, "with what pity and compassion they would be moved!"

But they, seeing him who had laid cheerfulness upon them as a duty becoming more and more sad
and keeping aloof from them, imagined that he was tortured with temptations of the devil.[16]

Clara divined that which could not be uttered. At St. Damian her friend was looking back over
all the past: what memories lived again in a single glance! Here, the olive-tree to which,
a brilliant cavalier, he had fastened his horse; there, the stone bench where his friend, the
priest of the poor chapel, used to sit; yonder, the hiding-place in which he had taken refuge
from the paternal wrath, and, above all, the sanctuary with the mysterious crucifix of the
decisive hour.

In living over these pictures of the radiant past, Francis aggravated his pain; yet they spoke
to him of other things than death and regret. Clara was there, as steadfast, as ardent as ever.
Long ago transformed by admiration, she was now transfigured by compassion. Seated at the feet
of him whom she loved with more than earthly love she felt the soreness of his soul, and the
failing of his heart. After that, what did it matter that Francis's tears became more abundant
to the point of making him blind for a fortnight? Soothing would come; the sister of consolation
would give him peace once more.

And first she kept him near her, and, herself taking part in the labor, she made him a large
cell of reeds in the monastery garden, that he might be entirely at liberty as to his movements.

How could he refuse a hospitality so thoroughly Franciscan? It was indeed only too much so:
legions of rats and mice infested this retired spot; at night they ran over Francis's bed with
an infernal uproar, so that he could find no repose from his sufferings. But he soon forgot
all that when near his sister-friend. Once again she gave back to him faith and courage. "A
single sunbeam," he used to say, "is enough to drive away many shadows!"

Little by little the man of the former days began to show himself, and at times the Sisters
would hear, mingling with the murmur of the olive trees and pines, the echo of unfamiliar songs,
which seemed to come from the cell of reeds.

One day he had seated himself at the monastery table after a long conversation with Clara.
The meal had hardly begun when suddenly he seemed to be rapt away in ecstasy.

"Laudato sia lo Signore!" he cried on coming to himself. He had just composed the Canticle
of the Sun.[17]

TEXT[18]

    INCIPIUNT LAUDES CREATURARUM
    QUAS FECIT BEATUS FRANCISCUS AD LAUDEM ET HONOREM
    DEI
    CUM ESSET INFIRMUS AD SANCTUM DAMIANUM.

      ALTISSIMU, onnipotente, bon signore,
    tue so le laude la gloria e l'onore et onne benedictione.
    Ad te sole, altissimo, se konfano
    et nullu homo ene dignu te mentovare.
      Laudato si, mi signore, per frate focu,
    per lo quale ennallumini la nocte,
    ed ello è bello et jucundo et robustoso et forte.
      Laudato si, mi signore, per quilli ke perdonano per lo tuo amore
    et sosteugo infirmitate et tribulatione,
    beati quilli ke sosterrano in pace,
    ka da te, altissimo, sirano incoronati.
      Laudate et benedicete mi signore et rengratiate
    et serviteli cum grande humilitate.

TRANSLATION.[19]

    O most high, almighty, good Lord God, to thee belong praise,
    glory, honor, and all blessing! {To thee alone, Most High, do
    they belong, and no mortal lips are worthy to pronounce thy
    Name.}

    Praised be my Lord God with all his creatures, and specially our
    brother the sun, who brings us the day and who brings us the
    light; fair is he and shines with a very great splendor: O Lord,
    he signifies to us thee!

    Praised be my Lord for our sister the moon, and for the stars,
    the which he has set clear and lovely in heaven.

    Praised be my Lord for our brother the wind, and for air and
    cloud, calms and all weather by the which thou upholdest life in
    all creatures.

    Praised be my Lord for our sister water, who is very serviceable
    unto us and humble and precious and clean.

    Praised be my Lord for our brother fire, through whom thou
    givest us light in the darkness; and he is bright and pleasant
    and very mighty and strong.

    Praised be my Lord for our mother the earth, the which doth
    sustain us and keep us, and bringeth forth divers fruits and
    flowers of many colors, and grass.

    Praised be my Lord for all those who pardon one another for his
    love's sake, and who endure weakness and tribulation; blessed
    are they who peaceably shall endure, for thou, O most Highest,
    shalt give them a crown.

    Praised be my Lord for our sister, the death of the body, from
    which no man escapeth. Woe to him who dieth in mortal sin!
    Blessed are they who are found walking by thy most holy will,
    for the second death shall have no power to do them harm.

    Praise ye and bless the Lord, and give thanks unto him and serve
    him with great humility.

Joy had returned to Francis, joy as deep as ever. For a whole week he forsook his breviary
and passed his days in repeating the Canticle of the Sun.

During a night of sleeplessness he had heard a voice saying to him, "If thou hadst faith as
a grain of mustard seed, thou wouldst say to this mountain, 'Be thou removed from there,' and
it would move away." Was not the mountain that of his sufferings, the temptation to murmur
and despair? "Be it, Lord, according to thy word," he had replied with all his heart, and immediately
he had felt that he was delivered.[20]

He might have perceived that the mountain had not greatly changed its place, but for several
days he had turned his eyes away from it, he had been able to forget its existence.

For a moment he thought of summoning to his side Brother Pacifico, the King of Verse, to retouch
his canticle; his idea was to attach to him a certain number of friars, who would go with him
from village to village, preaching. After the sermon they would sing the Hymn of the Sun; and
they were to close by saying to the crowd gathered around them in the public places, "We are
God's jugglers. We desire to be paid for our sermon and our song. Our payment shall be that
you persevere in penitence."[21]

"Is it not in fact true," he would add, "that the servants of God are really like jugglers,
intended to revive the hearts of men and lead them into spiritual joy?"

The Francis of the old raptures had come back, the layman, the poet, the artist.

The Canticle of the Creatures is very noble: it lacks, however, one strophe; if it was not
upon Francis's lips, it was surely in his heart:

    Be praised, Lord, for Sister Clara; thou hast made her silent,
    active, and sagacious, and by her thy light shines in our
    hearts.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] Thirty-sixth and last strophe of the song

        Amor de caritade
         Perche m' hai si ferito?

       found in the collection of St. Francis's works.

   [2] By the Abbé Amoni, at the close of his edition of the Fioretti,
       Rome, 1 vol., 12mo, 1889, pp. 390-392. We can but once more
       regret the silence of the editor as to the manuscript whence
       he has drawn these charming pages. Certain indications seem
       unfavorable to the author having written it before the second
       half of the thirteenth century; on the other hand, the object
       of a forgery is not evident. An apochryphal piece always
       betrays itself by some interested purpose, but here the story
       is of an infantine simplicity.

   [3] 2 Cel., 3, 104; Bon., 119; Fior. ii. consid.

   [4] Parti san Francesco per Monte-Acuto prendendo la via di
       Monte-Arcoppe e del foresto. This road from the Verna to Borgo
       San-Sepolero is far from being the shortest or the easiest, for
       instead of leading directly to the plain it lingers for long
       hours among the hills. Is not all Francis in this choice?

   [5] 2 Cel., 3, 41; Bon., 141; Fior. iv. consid.

   [6] 1 Cel., 63 and 64; Fior. iv. consid.

   [7] 1 Cel., 70; Fior. iv. consid.

   [8] 1 Cel., 109; 69; Bon. 208. Perhaps we must refer to this
       circuit the visit to Celano. 2 Cel., 3, 30; Spec., 22; Bon.,
       156 and 157.

   [9] 1 Cel., 97 and 98; 2 Cel., 3, 137; Bon., 205 and 206.

  [10] Richard of St. Germano, ann. 1225. Cf. Potthast, 7400 ff.

  [11] 1 Cel., 98 and 99; 2 Cel., 3, 137; Fior., 19.

  [12] 2 Cel., 3, 110; Rule of 1221, cap. 10.

  [13] See the reference to the sources after the Canticle of the
       Sun.

  [14] 2 Cel., 3, 138.

  [15] This incident appeared to the authors so peculiar that they
       emphasized it with an ut oculis videmus. 2 Cel., 3, 67;
       Spec., 119a.

  [16] Spec., 123a; 2 Cel., 3, 58.

  [17] I have combined Celano's narrative with that of the
       Conformities. The details given in the latter document appear to
       me entirely worthy of faith. It is easy to see, however, why
       Celano omitted them, and it would be difficult to explain how
       they could have been later invented. 2 Cel., 3, 138; Conform.,
       42b, 2; 119b, 1; 184b, 2; 239a, 2; Spec., 123a ff.; Fior.,
       19.

  [18] After the Assisan MS., 338, f^o 33a. Vide p. 354. Father
       Panfilo da Magliano has already published it after this
       manuscript: Storia compendiosa di San Francesco, Rome, 2
       vols., 18mo, 1874-1876. The Conformities, 202b, 2-203a 1, give a
       version of it which differs from this only by insignificant
       variations. The learned philologue Monaci has established a very
       remarkable critical text in his Crestomazia italiana dei primi
       secoli. Citta di Castello, fas. i., 1889, 8vo, pp. 29-31. This
       thoroughly scrupulous work dispenses me from indicating
       manuscripts and editions more at length.

  [19] Matthew Arnold, Essays in Criticism, First Series.
       Macmillan & Company, 1883.

  [20] 2 Cel., 3, 58; Spec., 123a.

  [21] Spec., 124a. Cf. Miscellanea (1889), iv., p. 88.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XIX

THE LAST YEAR

September, 1225-End of September, 1226

What did Ugolini think when they told him that Francis was planning to send his friars, transformed
into Joculatores Domini, to sing up and down the country the Canticle of Brother Sun? Perhaps
he never heard of it. His protégé finally decided to accept his invitation and left St. Damian
in the course of the month of September.

The landscape which lies before the eyes of the traveller from Assisi, when he suddenly emerges
upon the plain of Rieti, is one of the most beautiful in Europe. From Terni the road follows
the sinuous course of the Velino, passes not far from the famous cascades, whose clouds of
mist are visible, and then plunges into the defiles in whose depths the torrent rushes noisily,
choked by a vegetation as luxuriant as that of a virgin forest. On all sides uprise walls of
perpendicular rocks, and on their crests, several hundred yards above your head, are feudal
fortresses, among others the Castle of Miranda, more giddy, more fantastic than any which Gustave
Doré's fancy ever dreamed.

After four hours of walking, the defile opens out and you find yourself without transition
in a broad valley, sparkling with light.

Rieti, the only city in this plain of several leagues, appears far away at the other extremity,
commanded by hills of a thoroughly tropical aspect, behind which rise the mighty Apennines,
almost always covered with snow.

The highway goes directly toward this town, passing between tiny lakes; here and there roads
lead off to little villages which you see, on the hillside, between the cultivated fields and
the edge of the forests; there are Stroncone, Greccio, Cantalice, Poggio-Buscone, and ten other
small towns, which have given more saints to the Church than a whole province of France.

Between the inhabitants of the district and their neighbors of Umbria, properly so called,
the difference is extreme. They are all of the striking type of the Sabine peasants, and they
remain to this day entire strangers to new customs. One is born a Capuchin there as elsewhere
one is born a soldier, and the traveller needs to have his wits about him not to address every
man he meets as Reverend Father.

Francis had often gone over this district in every direction. Like its neighbor, the hilly
March of Ancona, it was peculiarly prepared to receive the new gospel. In these hermitages,
with their almost impossible simplicity, perched near the villages on every side, without the
least care for material comfort, but always where there is the widest possible view, was perpetuated
a race of Brothers Minor, impassioned, proud, stubborn, almost wild, who did not wholly understand
their master, who did not catch his exquisite simplicity, his impossibility of hating, his
dreams of social and political renovation, his poetry and delicacy, but who did understand
the lover of nature and of poverty.[1] They did more than understand him; they lived his life,
and from that Christmas festival observed in the woods of Greccio down to to-day they have
remained the simple and popular representatives of the Strict Observance. From them comes to
us the Legend of the Three Companions, the most life-like and true of all the portraits of
the Poverello, and it was there, in a cell three paces long, that Giovanni di Parma had his
apocalyptic visions.

The news of Francis's arrival quickly spread, and long before he reached Rieti the population
had come out to meet him.

To avoid this noisy welcome he craved the hospitality of the priest of St. Fabian. This little
church, now known under the name of Our Lady of the Forest, is somewhat aside from the road
upon a grassy mound about a league from the city. He was heartily welcomed, and desiring to
remain there for a little, prelates and devotees began to flock thither in the next few days.

It was the time of the early grapes. It is easy to imagine the disquietude of the priest on
perceiving the ravages made by these visitors among his vines, his best source of revenue,
but he probably exaggerated the damage. Francis one day heard him giving vent to his bad humor.
"Father," he said, "it is useless for you to disturb yourself for what you cannot hinder; but,
tell me, how much wine do you get on an average?"

"Fourteen measures," replied the priest.

"Very well, if you have less than twenty, I undertake to make up the difference."

This promise reassured the worthy man, and when at the vintage he received twenty measures,
he had no hesitation in believing in a miracle.[2]

Upon Ugolini's entreaties Francis had accepted the hospitality of the bishop's palace in Rieti.
Thomas of Celano enlarges with delight upon the marks of devotion lavished on Francis by this
prince of the Church. Unhappily all this is written in that pompous and confused style of which
diplomats and ecclesiastics appear to have by nature the secret.

Francis entered into the condition of a relic in his lifetime. The mania for amulets displayed
itself around him in all its excesses. People quarrelled not only over his clothing, but even
over his hair and the parings of his nails.[3]

Did these merely exterior demonstrations disgust him? Did he sometimes think of the contrast
between these honors offered to his body, which he picturesquely called Brother Ass, and the
subversion of his ideal? We cannot tell. If he had feelings of this kind those who surrounded
him were not the men to understand them, and it would be idle to expect any expression of them
from his pen.

Soon after he had a relapse, and asked to be removed to Monte-Colombo,[4] a hermitage an hour
distant from the city, hidden amidst trees and scattered rocks. He had already retired thither
several times, notably when he was preparing the Rule of 1223.

The doctors, having exhausted the therapeutic arsenal of the time, decided to resort to cauterization;
it was decided to draw a rod of white-hot iron across his forehead.

When the poor patient saw them bringing in the brazier and the instruments he had a moment
of terror; but immediately making the sign of the cross over the glowing iron, "Brother fire,"
he said, "you are beautiful above all creatures; be favorable to me in this hour; you know
how much I have always loved you; be then courteous to-day."

Afterward, when his companions, who had not had the courage to remain, came back he said to
them, smiling, "Oh, cowardly folk, why did you go away? I felt no pain. Brother doctor, if
it is necessary you may do it again."

This experiment was no more successful than the other remedies. In vain they quickened the
wound on the forehead, by applying plasters, salves, and even by making incisions in it; the
only result was to increase the pains of the sufferer.[5]

One day, at Rieti, whither he had again been carried, he thought that a little music would
relieve his pain. Calling a friar who had formerly been clever at playing the guitar, he begged
him to borrow one; but the friar was afraid of the scandal which this might cause, and Francis
gave it up.

God took pity upon him; the following night he sent an invisible angel to give him such a concert
as is never heard on earth.[6] Francis, hearing it, lost all bodily feeling, say the Fioretti,
and at one moment the melody was so sweet and penetrating that if the angel had given one more
stroke of the bow, the sick man's soul would have left his body.[7]

It seems that there was some amelioration of his state when the doctors left him; we find him
during the months of this winter, 1225-1226, in the most remote hermitages of the district,
for as soon as he had a little strength he was determined to begin preaching again.

He went to Poggio-Buscone[8] for the Christmas festival. People flocked thither in crowds from
all the country round to see and hear him. "You come here," he said, "expecting to find a great
saint; what will you think when I tell you that I ate meat all through Advent?"[9] At St. Eleutheria,[10]
at a time of extreme cold which tried him much, he had sewn some pieces of stuff into his own
tunic and that of his companion, so as to make their garments a little warmer. One day his
companion came home with a fox-skin, with which in his turn he proposed to line his master's
tunic. Francis rejoiced much over it, but would permit this excess of consideration for his
body only on condition that the piece of fur should be placed on the outside over his chest.

All these incidents, almost insignificant at a first view, show how he detested hypocrisy even
in the smallest things.

We will not follow him to his dear Greccio,[11] nor even to the hermitage of St. Urbano, perched
on one of the highest peaks of the Sabine.[12] The accounts which we have of the brief visits
he made there at this time tell us nothing new of his character or of the history of his life.
They simply show that the imaginations of those who surrounded him were extraordinarily overheated;
the least incidents immediately took on a miraculous coloring.[13]

The documents do not say how it came about that he decided to go to Sienna. It appears that
there was in that city a physician of great fame as an oculist. The treatment he prescribed
was no more successful than that of the others; but with the return of spring Francis made
a new effort to return to active life. We find him describing the ideal Franciscan monastery,[14]
and another day explaining a passage in the Bible to a Dominican.

Did the latter, a doctor in theology, desire to bring the rival Order into ridicule by showing
its founder incapable of explaining a somewhat difficult verse? It appears extremely likely.
"My good father," he said, "how do you understand this saying of the prophet Ezekiel, 'If thou
dost not warn the wicked of his wickedness, I will require his soul of thee?' I am acquainted
with many men whom I know to be in a state of mortal sin, and yet I am not always reproaching
them for their vices. Am I, then, responsible for their souls?"

At first Francis excused himself, alleging his ignorance, but urged by his interlocutor he
said at last: "Yes, the true servant unceasingly rebukes the wicked, but he does it most of
all by his conduct, by the truth which shines forth in his words, by the light of his example,
by all the radiance of his life."[15]

He soon suffered so grave a relapse that the Brothers thought his last hour had come. They
were especially affrighted by the hemorrhages, which reduced him to a state of extreme prostration.
Brother Elias hastened to him. At his arrival the invalid felt in himself such an improvement
that they could acquiesce in his desire to be taken back to Umbria. Toward the middle of April
they set out, going in the direction of Cortona. It is the easiest route, and the delightful
hermitage of that city was one of the best ordered to permit of his taking some repose. He
doubtless remained there a very short time: he was in haste to see once more the skies of his
native country, Portiuncula, St. Damian, the Carceri, all those paths and hamlets which one
sees from the terraces of Assisi and which recalled to him so many sweet memories.

Instead of going by the nearest road, they made a long circuit by Gubbio and Nocera, to avoid
Perugia, fearing some attempt of the inhabitants to get possession of the Saint. Such a relic
as the body of Francis lacked little of the value of the sacred nail or the sacred lance.[16]
Battles were fought for less than that.

They made a short halt near Nocera, at the hermitage of Bagnara, on the slopes of Monte-Pennino.[17]
His companions were again very much disturbed. The swelling which had shown itself in the lower
limbs was rapidly gaining the upper part of the body. The Assisans learned this, and wishing
to be prepared for whatever might happen sent their men-at-arms to protect the Saint and hasten
his return.

Bringing Francis back with them they stopped for food at the hamlet of Balciano,[18] but in
vain they begged the inhabitants to sell them provisions. As the escort were confiding their
discomfiture to the friars, Francis, who knew these good peasants, said: "If you had asked
for food without offering to pay, you would have found all you wanted."

He was right, for, following his advice, they received for nothing all that they desired.[19]

The arrival of the party at Assisi was hailed with frantic joy. This time Francis's fellow-citizens
were sure that the Saint was not going to die somewhere else.[20]

Customs in this matter have changed too much for us to be able thoroughly to comprehend the
good fortune of possessing the body of a saint. If you are ever so unlucky as to mention St.
Andrew before an inhabitant of Amalfi, you will immediately find him beginning to shout "Evviva
San Andrea! Evviva San Andrea!" Then with extraordinary volubility he will relate to you the
legend of the Grande Protettore, his miracles past and present, those which he might have done
if he had chosen, but which he refrained from doing out of charity because St. Januarius of
Naples could not do as much. He gesticulates, throws himself about, hustles you, more enthusiastic
over his relic and more exasperated by your coldness than a soldier of the Old Guard before
an enemy of the Emperor.

In the thirteenth century all Europe was like that.

We shall find here several incidents which we may be tempted to consider shocking or even ignoble,
if we do not make an effort to put them all into their proper surroundings.

Francis was installed in the bishop's palace; he would have preferred to be at Portiuncula,
but the Brothers were obliged to obey the injunctions of the populace, and to make assurance
doubly sure, guards were placed at all the approaches of the palace.

The abode of the Saint in this place was much longer than had been anticipated. It perhaps
lasted several months (July to September). This dying man did not consent to die. He rebelled
against death; in this centre of the work his anxieties for the future of the Order, which
a little while before had been in the background, now returned, more agonizing and terrible
than ever.

"We must begin again," he thought, "create a new family who will not forget humility, who will
go and serve lepers and, as in the old times, put themselves always, not merely in words, but
in reality, below all men."[21]

To feel that implacable work of destruction going on against which the most submissive cannot
keep from protesting: "My God, my God, why? why hast thou forsaken me?" To be obliged to look
on at the still more dreaded decomposition of his Order; he, the lark, to be spied upon by
soldiers watching for his corpse--there was quite enough here to make him mortally sad.

During these last weeks all his sighs were noted. The disappearance of the greater part of
the legend of the Three Companions certainly deprives us of some touching stories, but most
of the incidents have been preserved for us, notwithstanding, in documents from a second hand.

Four Brothers had been especially charged to lavish care upon him: Leo, Angelo, Rufino, and
Masseo. We already know them; they are of those intimate friends of the first days, who had
heard in the Franciscan gospel a call to love and liberty. And they too began to complain of
everything.[22]

One day one of them said to the sick man: "Father, you are going away to leave us here; point
out to us, then, if you know him, the one to whom we might in all security confide the burden
of the generalship."

Alas, Francis did not know the ideal Brother, capable of assuming such a duty; but he took
advantage of the question to sketch the portrait of the perfect minister-general.[23]

We have two impressions of this portrait, the one which has been retouched by Celano, and the
original proof, much shorter and more vague, but showing us Francis desiring that his successor
shall have but a single weapon, an unalterable love.

It was probably this question which suggested to him the thought of leaving for his successors,
the generals of the Order, a letter which they should pass on from one to another, and where
they should find, not directions for particular cases, but the very inspiration of their activity.[24]

    To the Reverend Father in Christ, N ..., Minister-General of the
    entire Order of the Brothers Minor. May God bless thee and keep
    thee in his holy love.

    Patience in all things and everywhere, this, my Brother, is what
    I specially recommend. Even if they oppose thee, if they strike
    thee, thou shouldst be grateful to them and desire that it
    should be thus and not otherwise.

    In this will be manifest thy love for God and for me, his
    servant and thine; that there shall not be a single friar in the
    world who, having sinned as much as one can sin, and coming
    before thee, shall go away without having received thy pardon.
    And if he does not ask it, do thou ask it for him, whether he
    wills or not.

    And if he should return again a thousand times before thee, love
    him more than myself, in order to lead him to well-doing. Have
    pity always on these Brothers.

These words show plainly enough how in former days Francis had directed the Order; in his dream
the ministers-general were to stand in a relation of pure affection, of tender devotion toward
those under them; but was this possible for one at the head of a family whose branches extended
over the entire world? It would be hazardous to say, for among his successors have not been
wanting distinguished minds and noble hearts; but save for Giovanni di Parma and two or three
others, this ideal is in sharp contrast with the reality. St. Bonaventura himself will drag
his master and friend, this very Giovanni of Parma, before an ecclesiastical tribunal, will
cause him to be condemned to perpetual imprisonment, and it will need the intervention of a
cardinal outside of the Order to secure the commutation of this sentence.[25]

The agonies of grief endured by the dying Francis over the decadence of the Order would have
been less poignant if they had not been mingled with self-reproaches for his own cowardice.
Why had he deserted his post, given up the direction of his family, if not from idleness and
selfishness? And now it was too late to take back this step; and in hours of frightful anguish
he asked himself if God would not hold him responsible for this subversion of his ideal.

"Ah, if I could go once again to the chapter-general," he would sigh, "I would show them what
my will is."

Shattered as he was by fever, he would suddenly rise up in his bed, crying with a despairing
intensity: "Where are they who have ravished my brethren from me? Where are they who have stolen
away my family?"

Alas, the real criminals were nearer to him than he thought. The provincial ministers, of whom
he appears to have been thinking when he thus spoke, were only instruments in the hands of
the clever Brother Elias; and he--what else was he doing but putting his intelligence and address
at Cardinal Ugolini's service?

Far from finding any consolation in those around him, Francis was constantly tortured by the
confidences of his companions, who, impelled by mistaken zeal, aggravated his pain instead
of calming it.[26]

    "Forgive me, Father," said one of them to him one day, "but many
    people have already thought what I am going to say to you. You
    know how, in the early days, by God's grace the Order walked in
    the path of perfection; for all that concerns poverty and love,
    as well as for all the rest, the Brothers were but one heart and
    one soul. But for some time past all that is entirely changed:
    it is true that people often excuse the Brothers by saying that
    the Order has grown too large to keep up the old observances;
    they even go so far as to claim that infidelities to the Rule,
    such as the building of great monasteries, are a means of
    edification of the people, and so the primitive simplicity and
    poverty are held for nothing. Evidently all these abuses are
    displeasing to you; but then, people ask, why do you tolerate
    them?"

    "God forgive you, brother." replied Francis. "Why do you lay at
    my door things with which I have nothing to do? So long as I had
    the direction of the Order, and the Brothers persevered in their
    vocation I was able, in spite of weakness, to do what was
    needful. But when I saw that, without caring for my example or
    my teaching, they walked in the way you have described, I
    confided them to the Lord and to the ministers. It is true that
    when I relinquished the direction, alleging my incapacity as the
    motive, if they had walked in the way of my wishes I should not
    have desired that before my death they should have had any other
    minister than myself; though ill, though bedridden, even, I
    should have found strength to perform the duties of my charge.
    But this charge is wholly spiritual; I will not become an
    executioner to strike and punish as political governors
    must."[27]

Francis's complaints became so sharp and bitter that, to avoid scandal, the greatest prudence
was exercised with regard to those who were permitted to see him.[28]

Disorder was everywhere, and every day brought its contingent of subjects for sorrow. The confusion
of ideas as to the practice of the Rule was extreme; occult influences, which had been working
for several years, had succeeded in veiling the Franciscan ideal, not only from distant Brothers,
or those who had newly joined the Order, but even from those who had lived under the influence
of the founder.[29]

Under circumstances such as these, Francis dictated the letter to all the members of the Order,
which, as he thought would be read at the opening of chapters and perpetuate his spiritual
presence in them.[30]

In this letter he is perfectly true to himself; as in the past, he desires to influence the
Brothers, not by reproaches but by fixing their eyes on the perfect holiness.

    To all the revered and well-beloved Brothers Minor, to Brother A
    ...,[31] minister-general, its Lord, and to the
    ministers-general who shall be after him, and to all the
    ministers, custodians, and priests of this fraternity, humble in
    Christ, and to all the simple and obedient Brothers, the oldest
    and the most recent, Brother Francis, a mean and perishing man,
    your little servant, gives greeting!

    Hear, my Lords, you who are my sons and my brothers, give ear to
    my words. Open your hearts and obey the voice of the Son of God.
    Keep his commandments with all your hearts, and perfectly
    observe his counsels. Praise him, for he is good, and glorify
    him by your works.

    God has sent you through all the world, that by your words and
    example you may bear witness of him, and that you may teach all
    men that he alone is all powerful. Persevere in discipline and
    obedience, and with an honest and firm will keep that which you
    have promised.

After this opening Francis immediately passes to the essential matter of the letter, that of
the love and respect due to the Sacrament of the altar; faith in this mystery of love appeared
to him indeed as the salvation of the Order.

Was he wrong? How can a man who truly believes in the real presence of the God-Man between
the fingers of him who lifts up the host, not consecrate his life to this God and to holiness?
One has some difficulty in imagining.

It is true that legions of devotees profess the most absolute faith in this dogma, and we do
not see that they are less bad; but faith with them belongs in the intellectual sphere; it
is the abdication of reason, and in sacrificing their intelligence to God they are most happy
to offer to him an instrument which they very much prefer not to use.

To Francis the question presented itself quite differently; the thought that there could be
any merit in believing could never enter his mind; the fact of the real presence was for him
of almost concrete evidence. Therefore his faith in this mystery was an energy of the heart,
that the life of God, mysteriously present upon the altar, might become the soul of all his
actions.

To the eucharistic transubstantiation, effected by the words of the priest, he added another,
that of his own heart.

    God offers himself to us as to his children. This is why I beg
    you, all of you, my brothers, kissing your feet, and with all
    the love of which I am capable, to have all possible respect for
    the body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Then addressing himself particularly to the priests:

    Hearken, my brothers, if the blessed Virgin Mary is justly
    honored for having carried Jesus in her womb, if John the
    Baptist trembled because he dared not touch the Lord's head, if
    the sepulchre in which for a little time he lay is regarded with
    such great adoration, oh, how holy, pure, and worthy should be
    the priest who touches with his hands, who receives into his
    mouth and into his heart, and who distributes to others the
    living, glorified Jesus, the sight of whom makes angels rejoice!
    Understand your dignity, brother priests, and be holy, for he is
    holy. Oh! what great wretchedness and what a frightful infirmity
    to have him there present before you and to think of other
    things. Let each man be struck with amazement, let the whole
    earth tremble, let the heavens thrill with joy when the Christ,
    the Son of the living God, descends upon the altar into the
    hands of the priest. Oh, wonderful profundity! Oh, amazing
    grace! Oh, triumph of humility! See, the Master of all things,
    God, and the Son of God, humbles himself for our salvation, even
    to disguising himself under the appearance of a bit of bread.

    Contemplate, my brothers, this humility of God, and enlarge your
    hearts before him; humble yourselves as well, that you, even
    you, may be lifted up by him. Keep nothing for yourselves, that
    he may receive you without reserve, who has given himself to you
    without reserve.

We see with what vigor of love Francis's heart had laid hold upon the idea of the communion.

He closes with long counsels to the Brothers, and after having conjured them faithfully to
keep their promises, all his mysticism breathes out and is summed up in a prayer of admirable
simplicity.

    God Almighty, eternal, righteous, and merciful, give to us poor
    wretches to do for thy sake all that we know of thy will, and to
    will always what pleases thee; so that inwardly purified,
    enlightened, and kindled by the fire of the Holy Spirit, we may
    follow in the footprints of thy well-beloved Son, our Lord Jesus
    Christ.

What separates this prayer from the effort to discern duty made by choice spirits apart from
all revealed religion? Very little in truth; the words are different, the action is the same.

But Francis's solicitudes reached far beyond the limits of the Order. His longest epistle is
addressed to all Christians; its words are so living that you fancy you hear a voice speaking
behind you; and this voice, usually as serene as that which from the mountain in Galilee proclaimed
the law of the new times, becomes here and there unutterably sweet, like that which sounded
in the upper chamber on the night of the first eucharist.

As Jesus forgot the cross that was standing in the shadows, so Francis forgets his sufferings,
and, overcome with a divine sadness, thinks of humanity, for each member of which he would
give his life; he thinks of his spiritual sons, the Brothers of Penitence, whom he is about
to leave without having been able to make them feel, as he would have had them feel, the love
for them with which he burns: "Father, I have given them the words which thou hast given me....
For them I pray!"

The whole Franciscan gospel is in these words, but to understand the fascination which it exerted
we must have gone through the School of the Middle Ages, and there listened to the interminable
tournaments of dialectics by which minds were dried up; we must have seen the Church of the
thirteenth century, honeycombed by simony and luxury, and only able, under the pressure of
heresy or revolt, to make a few futile efforts to scotch the evil.

    To all Christians, monks, clerics, or laymen, whether men or
    women, to all who dwell in the whole world, Brother Francis,
    their most submissive servitor, presents his duty and wishes the
    true peace of heaven, and sincere love in the Lord.

    Being the servitor of all men, I am bound to serve them and to
    dispense to them the wholesome words of my Master. This is why,
    seeing I am too weak and ill to visit each one of you in
    particular, I have resolved to send you my message by this
    letter, and to offer you the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, the
    Word of God, and of the Holy Spirit, which are spirit and life.

It would be puerile to expect here new ideas either in fact or form. Francis's appeals are
of value only by the spirit which animates them.

After having briefly recalled the chief features of the gospel, and urgently recommended the
communion, Francis addresses himself in particular to certain categories of hearers, with special
counsels.

    Let the podestàs, governors, and those who are placed in
    authority, exercise their functions with mercy, as they would be
    judged with mercy by God....

    Monks in particular, who have renounced the world, are bound to
    do more and better than simple Christians, to renounce all that
    is not necessary to them, and to have in hatred the vices and
    sins of the body.... They should love their enemies, do good to
    them who hate them, observe the precepts and counsels of our
    Redeemer, renounce themselves, and subdue their bodies. And no
    monk is bound to obedience, if in obeying he would be obliged to
    commit a fault or a sin....

    Let us not be wise and learned according to the flesh, but
    simple, humble, and pure.... We should never desire to be above
    others, but rather to be below, and to obey all men.

He closes by showing the foolishness of those who set their hearts on the possession of earthly
goods, and concludes by the very realistic picture of the death of the wicked.

    His money, his title, his learning, all that he believed himself
    to possess, all are taken from him; his relatives and his
    friends to whom he has given his fortune will come to divide it
    among themselves, and will end by saying: "Curses on him, for he
    might have given us more and he has not done it; he might have
    amassed a larger fortune, and he has done nothing of the kind."
    The worms will eat his body and the demons will consume his
    soul, and thus he will lose both soul and body.

    I, Brother Francis, your little servitor, I beg and conjure you
    by the love that is in God, ready to kiss your feet, to receive
    with humility and love these and all other words of our Lord
    Jesus Christ and to conform your conduct to them. And let those
    who devoutly receive them and understand them pass them on to
    others. And if they thus persevere unto the end, may they be
    blessed by the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.[32]

If Francis ever made a Rule for the Third Order it must have very nearly resembled this epistle,
and until this problematical document is found, the letter shows what were originally these
associations of Brothers of Penitence. Everything in these long pages looks toward the development
of the mystic religious life in the heart of each Christian. But even when Francis dictated
them, this high view had become a Utopia, and the Third Order was only one battalion more in
the armies of the papacy.

We see that the epistles which we have just examined proceed definitely from a single inspiration.
Whether he is leaving instructions for his successors, the ministers-general, whether he is
writing to all the present and future members of his Order, to all Christians or even to the
clergy,[33] Francis has only one aim, to keep on preaching after his death, and perhaps, too,
by putting into writing his message of peace and love, to provide that he shall not be entirely
travestied or misunderstood.

Considered in connection with those sorrowful hours which saw their birth, they form a whole
whose import and meaning become singularly energetic. If we would find the Franciscan spirit,
it is here, in the Rule of 1221, and in the Will that we must seek for it.

Neglect, and especially the storms which later overwhelmed the Order, explain the disappearance
of several other documents which would cast a glimmer of poetry and joy over these sad days;[34]
Francis had not forgotten his sister-friend at St. Damian. Hearing that she had been greatly
disquieted by knowing him to be so ill, he desired to reassure her: he still deceived himself
as to his condition, and wrote to her promising soon to go to see her.

To this assurance he added some affectionate counsels, advising her and her companions not
to go to extremes with their macerations. To set her an example of cheerfulness he added to
this letter a Laude in the vulgar tongue which he had himself set to music.[35]

In that chamber of the episcopal palace in which he was as it were imprisoned he had achieved
a new victory, and it was doubtless that which inspired his joy. The Bishop of Assisi, the
irritable Guido, always at war with somebody, was at this time quarrelling with the podestà
of the city; nothing more was needed to excite in the little town a profound disquiet. Guido
had excommunicated the podestà, and the latter had issued a prohibition against selling and
buying or making any contract with ecclesiastics.

The difference grew more bitter, and no one appeared to dream of attempting a reconciliation.
We can the better understand Francis's grief over all this by remembering that his very first
effort had been to bring peace into his native city, and that he considered the return of Italy
to union and concord to be the essential aim of his apostolate.

War in Assisi would be the final dissolution of his dream; the voice of events crying brutally
to him, "Thou hast wasted thy life!"

The dregs of this cup were spared him, thanks to an inspiration in which breaks forth anew
his natural play of imagination. To the Canticle of the Sun he added a new strophe:

  Be praised, Lord, for those who forgive for love of thee,
  and bear trials and tribulations;
  happy they who persevere in peace,
  by thee, Most high, shall they be crowned.

Then, calling a friar, he charged him to beg the governor to betake himself, with all the notables
whom he could assemble, to the paved square before the bishop's palace. The magistrate, to
whom legend gives the nobler part in the whole affair, at once yielded to the saint's request.

    When he arrived and the bishop had come forth from the palace,
    two friars came forward and said: "Brother Francis has made to
    the praise of God a hymn to which he prays you to listen
    piously," and immediately they began to sing the Hymn of Brother
    Sun, with its new strophe.

    The governor listened, standing in an attitude of profound
    attention, copiously weeping, for he dearly loved the blessed
    Francis.

    When the singing was ended, "Know in truth," said he, "that I
    desire to forgive the lord bishop, that I wish and ought to look
    upon him as my lord, for if one had even assassinated my brother
    I should be ready to pardon the murderer." With these words he
    threw himself at the bishop's feet, and said: "I am ready to do
    whatsoever you would, for the love of our Lord Jesus Christ and
    his servant Francis."

    Then the bishop, taking him by the hand, lifted him up and said,
    "With my position it would become me to be humble, but since I
    am naturally too quick to wrath, thou must pardon me."[36]

This unexpected reconciliation was immediately looked upon as miraculous, and increased still
more the reverence of the Assisans for their fellow-citizen.

The summer was drawing to a close. After a few days of relative improvement Francis's sufferings
became greater than ever: incapable of movement, he even thought that he ought to give up his
ardent desire to see St. Damian and Portiuncula once more, and gave the brothers all his directions
about the latter sanctuary: "Never abandon it," he would repeat to them, "for that place is
truly sacred: it is the house of God."[37]

It seemed to him that if the Brothers remained attached to that bit of earth, that chapel ten
feet long, those thatched huts, they would there find the living reminder of the poverty of
the early days, and could never wander far from it.

One evening he grew worse with frightful rapidity; all the following night he had hemorrhages
which left not the slightest hope; the Brothers hastening to him, he dictated a few lines in
form of a Will and gave them his blessing: "Adieu, my children; remain all of you in the fear
of God, abide always united to Christ; great trials are in store for you, and tribulation draws
nigh. Happy are they who persevere as they have begun; for there will be scandals and divisions
among you. As for me, I am going to the Lord and my God. Yes, I have the assurance that I am
going to him whom I have served."[38]

During the following days, to the great surprise of those who were about him, he again grew
somewhat better; no one could understand the resistance to death offered by this body so long
worn out by suffering.

He himself began to hope again. A physician of Arezzo whom he knew well, having come to visit
him, "Good friend," Francis asked him, "how much longer do you think I have to live?"

"Father," replied the other reassuringly, "this will all pass away, if it pleases God."

"I am not a cuckoo,"[39] replied Francis smiling, using a popular saying, "to be afraid of
death. By the grace of the Holy Spirit I am so intimately united to God that I am equally content
to live or to die."

"In that case, father, from the medical point of view, your disease is incurable, and I do
not think that you can last longer than the beginning of autumn."

At these words the poor invalid stretched out his hands as if to call on God, crying with an
indescribable expression of joy, "Welcome, Sister Death!" Then he began to sing, and sent for
Brothers Angelo and Leo.

On their arrival they were made, in spite of their emotion, to sing the Canticle of the Sun.
They were at the last doxology when Francis, checking them, improvised the greeting to death:

  Be praised, Lord, for our Sister the Death of the body,
  whom no man may escape;
  alas for them who die in a state of mortal sin;
  happy they who are found conformed to thy most holy will,
  for the second death will do to them no harm.

From this day the palace rang unceasingly with his songs. Continually, even through the night,
he would sing the Canticle of the Sun or some other of his favorite compositions. Then, when
wearied out, he would beg Angelo and Leo to go on.

One day Brother Elias thought it his duty to make a few remarks on the subject. He feared that
the nurses and the people of the neighborhood would be scandalized; ought not a saint to be
absorbed in meditation in the face of death, to await it with fear and trembling instead of
indulging in a gayety that might be misinterpreted?[40] Perhaps Bishop Guido was not entirely
a stranger to these reproaches; it seems not improbable that to have his palace crowded with
Brothers Minor all these long weeks had finally put him a little out of humor. But Francis
would not yield; his union with God was too sweet for him to consent not to sing it.

They decided at last to remove him to Portiuncula. His desire was to be fulfilled; he was to
die beside the humble chapel where he had heard God's voice consecrating him apostle.

His companions, bearing their precious burden, took the way through the olive-yards across
the plain. From time to time the invalid, unable to distinguish anything, asked where they
were. When they were half way there, at the hospital of the Crucigeri, where long ago he had
tended the leper, and from whence there was a full view of all the houses of the city, he begged
them to set him upon the ground with his face toward Assisi, and raising his hand he bade adieu
to his native place and blessed it.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] The following is the list of monasteries which, according to
       Rodolfo di Tossignano, accepted the ideas of Angelo Clareno
       before the end of the thirteenth century: Fermo, Spoleto,
       Camerino, Ascoli, Rieti, Foligno, Nursia, Aquila, Amelia:
       Historiarum seraphicæ religionis, libri tres, Venice, 1586, 1
       vol., f^o, 155a.

   [2] Spec., 129b; Fior., 19. In some of the stories of this
       period the evidence is clear how certain facts have been, little
       by little, transformed into miracles. Compare, for example, the
       miracle of St. Urbano in Bon., 68, and 1 Cel., 61. See also 2
       Cel., 2, 10; Bon., 158 and 159.

   [3] 1 Cel., 87; 2 Cel., 2, 11; Conform., 148a, 2; Bon., 99.
       Upon this visit see 2 Cel., 2, 10; Bon., 158 and 159; 2 Cel., 2,
       11; 2 Cel., 3, 36.

   [4] The present Italian name of the monastery which has also
       been called Monte-Rainerio and Fonte-Palumbo.

   [5] 1 Cel., 101; 2 Cel., 3, 102; Bon., 67; Spec., 134a.

   [6] 2 Cel., 3, 66; Bon., 69.

   [7] Fior. ii. consid. Cf. Roger Bacon, Opus tertium (ap. Mon.
       Germ. hist., Script. t. 28, p. 577). B. Franciscus jussit
       fratri cythariste ut dulcius personaret, quatenus mens
       excitaretur ad harmonias coelestes quas pluries andivit. Mira
       enim musicæ super omnes scientias et spectanda potestas.

   [8] Village three hours' walk northward from Rieti. Francis's
       cell still remains on the mountain, three-quarters of an hour
       from the place.

   [9] 2 Cel., 3, 71; cf. Spec., 43a.

  [10] Chapel still standing, a few minutes' walk from Rieti. 2
       Cel., 3, 70; Spec., 15a, 43a.

  [11] 2 Cel., 2, 14; Bon., 167; 2 Cel., 3, 10; Bon., 58; Spec.,
       122b.

  [12] Wadding, ann. 1213, n. 14, rightly places St. Urbano in
       the county of Narni. L'Eremo di S. Urbano is about half an
       hour from the village of the same name, on Mount San Pancrazio
       (1026 m.), three leagues south of Narni. The panorama is one of
       the finest in Central Italy. The Bollandists allowed themselves
       to be led into error by an interested assertion when they placed
       San Urbano near to Jesi (pp. 623f and 624a). 1 Cel., 61; Bon.,
       68. (Vide Bull Cum aliqua of May 15, 1218, where mention is
       made of San Urbano.)

  [13] As much may be said of the apparition of the three virgins
       between Campilia and San Quirico. 2 Cel., 3, 37; Bon., 93.

  [14] Spec., 12b; Conform., 169a, 1.

  [15] 2 Cel., 3, 46; Bon., 153; Spec., 31b; Ezek., xxxiii., 9.

  [16] Two years after, the King of France and all his court
       kissed and revered the pillow which Francis had used during his
       illness. 1 Cel., 120.

  [17] Bagnara is near the sources of the Topino, about an hour
       east of Nocera. These two localities were then dependents of
       Assisi.

  [18] And not Sartiano. Balciano still exists, about half way
       between Nocera and Assisi.

  [19] 2 Cel., 3, 23; Bon., 98; Spec., 17b; Conform., 239a,
       2f.

  [20] 2 Cel., 3, 33; 1 Cel., 105, is still more explicit: "The
       multitude hoped that he would die very soon, and that was the
       subject of their joy."

  [21] 1 Cel., 103 and 104.

  [22] 1 Cel., 102; Spec., 83b.

  [23] 2 Cel., 3, 116; Spec., 67a; Conform., 143b, 1, and
       225b, 2; 2 Cel., 3, 117; Spec., 130a.

  [24] For the text vide Conform., 136b, 2; 138b, 2; 142 b, 1.

  [25] Tribul., Archiv., ii., pp. 285 ff.

  [26] 2 Cel., 3, 118.

  [27] These words are borrowed from a long fragment cited by
       Ubertini di Casali, as coming from Brother Leo: Arbor vit.
       cruc., lib. v., cap. 3. It is surely a bit of the Legend of
       the Three Companions; it may be found textually in the
       Tribulations, Laur., f^o 16b, with a few more sentences at the
       end. Cf. Conform., 136a, 2; 143a, 2; Spec., 8b; 26b; 50a;
       130b; 2 Cel., 3, 118.

  [28] Tribul., Laur., 17b.

  [29] See, for example, Brother Richer's question as to the
       books: Ubertini, Loc. cit. Cf. Archiv., iii., pp. 75 and
       177; Spec., 8a; Conform., 71b, 2. See also: Ubertini,
       Archiv., iii., pp. 75 and 177; Tribul., 13a; Spec., 9a;
       Conform., 170a, 1. It is curious to compare the account as it
       found in the documents with the version of it given in 2 Cel.,
       3, 8.

  [30] Assisi MS., 338, f^o 28a-31a, with the rubric: De lictera
       et ammonitione beatissimi patris nostri Francisci quam misit
       fratribus ad capitulum quando erat infirmus. This letter was
       wrongly divided into three by Rodolfo di Tossignano (f^o 237),
       who was followed by Wadding (Epistolæ x., xi., xii.). The text
       is found without this senseless division in the manuscript cited
       and in Firmamentum, f^o 21; Spec., Morin, iii., 217a;
       Ubertini, Arbor vit. cruc., v., 7.

  [31] This initial (given only by the Assisi MS.) has not failed
       to excite surprise. It appears that there ought to have been
       simply an N ... This letter then would have been replaced by the
       copyist, who would have used the initial of the minister general
       in charge at the time of his writing. If this hypothesis has any
       weight it will aid to fix the exact date of the manuscript.
       (Alberto of Pisa minister from 1239-1240; Aimon of Faversham,
       1240-1244.)

  [32] This epistle also was unskilfully divided into two distinct
       letters by Rodolfo di Tossignano, f^o 174a, who was followed by
       Wadding. See Assisi MS., 338, 23a-28a; Conform., 137a, 1 ff.

  [33] The letter to the clergy only repeats the thoughts already
       expressed upon the worship of the holy sacrament. We remember
       Francis sweeping out the churches and imploring the priests to
       keep them clean; this epistle has the same object: it is found
       in the Assisi MS., 338, f^o 31b-32b, with the rubric: De
       reverentia Corporis Domini et de munditia altaris ad omnes
       clericos. Incipit: Attendamus omnes. Explicit: fecerint
       exemplari. This, therefore, is the letter given by Wadding
       xiii., but without address or salutation.

  [34] We need not despair of finding them. The archives of the
       monasteries of Clarisses are usually rudimentary enough, but
       they are preserved with pious care.

  [35] Spec., 117b; Conform., 185a 1; 135b, 1. Cf. Test. B.
       Claræ, A. SS., Aug., ii., p. 747.

  [36] This story is given in the Spec., 128b, as from
       eye-witnesses. Cf. Conform., 184b, 1; 203a, 1.

  [37] 1 Cel., 106. These recommendations as to Portiuncula were
       amplified by the Zelanti, when, under the generalship of
       Crescentius (Bull Is qui ecclesiam, March 6, 1245), the
       Basilica of Assisi was substituted for Santa Maria degli Angeli
       as mater et caput of the Order. Vide Spec., 32b, 69b-71a;
       Conform., 144a, 2; 218a, 1; 3 Soc., 56; 2 Cel., 1, 12 and 13;
       Bon., 24, 25; see the Appendix, the Study of the Indulgence of
       August 2.

  [38] 2 Cel., 108. As will be seen (below, p. 367) the remainder
       of Celano's narrative seems to require to be taken with some
       reserve. Cf. Spec., 115b; Conform., 225a, 2; Bon., 211.

  [39] Non sum cuculus, in Italian cuculo.

  [40] Spec., 136b; Fior. iv. consid. It is to be noted that
       Guido, instead of waiting at Assisi for the certainly impending
       death of Francis, went away to Mont Gargano. 2 Cel., 3, 142.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XX

FRANCIS'S WILL AND DEATH

End of September-October 3, 1226

The last days of Francis's life are of radiant beauty. He went to meet death, singing,[1] says
Thomas of Celano, summing up the impression of those who saw him then.

To be once more at Portiuncula after so long a detention at the bishop's palace was not only
a real joy to his heart, but the pure air of the forest must have been much to his physical
well-being; does not the Canticle of the Creatures seem to have been made expressly to be sung
in the evening of one of those autumn days of Umbria, so soft and luminous, when all nature
seems to retire into herself to sing her own hymn of love to Brother Sun?

We see that Francis has come to that almost entire cessation of pain, that renewing of life,
which so often precedes the approach of the last catastrophe.

He took advantage of it to dictate his Will.[2]

It is to these pages that we must go to find the true note for a sketch of the life of its
author, and an idea of the Order as it was in his dreams.

In this record, which is of an incontestable authenticity, the most solemn manifestation of
his thought, the Poverello reveals himself absolutely, with a virginal candor.

His humility is here of a sincerity which strikes one with awe; it is absolute, though no one
could dream that it was exaggerated. And yet, wherever his mission is concerned, he speaks
with tranquil and serene assurance. Is he not an ambassador of God? Does he not hold his message
from Christ himself? The genesis of his thought here shows itself to be at once wholly divine
and entirely personal. The individual conscience here proclaims its sovereign authority. "No
one showed me what I ought to do, but the Most High himself revealed to me that I ought to
live conformably to his holy gospel."

When a man has once spoken thus, submission to the Church has been singularly encroached upon.
We may love her, hearken to her, venerate her, but we feel ourselves, perhaps without daring
to avow it, superior to her. Let a critical hour come, and one finds himself heretic without
knowing it or wishing it.

"Ah, yes," cries Angelo Clareno, "St. Francis promised to obey the pope and his successors,
but they cannot and must not command anything contrary to the conscience or to the Rule."[3]

For him, as for all the spiritual Franciscans, when there is conflict between what the inward
voice of God ordains and what the Church wills, he has only to obey the former.[4]

If you tell him that the Church and the Order are there to define the true signification of
the Rule, he appeals to common sense, and to that interior certitude which is given by a clear
view of truth.

The Rule, as also the gospel, of which it is a summary, is above all ecclesiastical power,
and no one has the right to say the last word in their interpretation.[5]

The Will was not slow to gain a moral authority superior even to that of the Rule. Giovanni
of Parma, to explain the predilection of the Joachimites for this document, points out that
after the impression of the stigmata the Holy Spirit was in Francis with still greater plenitude
than before.[6]

Did the innumerable sects which disturbed the Church in the thirteenth century perceive that
these two writings--the Rule and the Testament--the one apparently made to follow and support
the other, substantially identical as it was said, proceeded from two opposite inspirations?
Very confusedly, no doubt, but guided by a very sure instinct, they saw in these pages the
banner of liberty.

They were not mistaken. Even to-day, thinkers, moralists, mystics may arrive at solutions very
different from those of the Umbrian prophet, but the method which they employ is his, and they
may not refuse to acknowledge in him the precursor of religious subjectivism.

The Church, too, was not mistaken. She immediately understood the spirit that animated these pages.

Four years later, perhaps to the very day, September 28, 1230, Ugolini, then Gregory IX., solemnly
interpreted the Rule, in spite of the precautions of Francis, who had forbidden all gloss or
commentary on the Rule or the Will, and declared that the Brothers were not bound to the observation
of the Will.[7]

What shall we say of the bull in which the pope alleges his familiar relations with the Saint
to justify his commentary, and in which the clearest passages are so distorted as to change
their sense completely. "One is stupefied," cries Ubertini of Casali, "that a text so clear
should have need of a commentary, for it suffices to have common sense and to know grammar
in order to understand it." And this strange monk dares to add: "There is one miracle which
God himself cannot do; it is to make two contradictory things true."[8]

Certainly the Church should be mistress in her own house; it would have been nothing wrong
had Gregory IX. created an Order conformed to his views and ideas, but when we go through Sbaralea's
folios and the thousands of bulls accorded to the spiritual sons of him who in the clearest
and most solemn manner had forbidden them to ask any privilege of the court of Rome, we cannot
but feel a bitter sadness.

Thus upheld by the papacy, the Brothers of the Common Observance made the Zelanti sharply expiate
their attachment to Francis's last requests. Cæsar of Speyer died of violence from the Brother
placed in charge of him;[9] the first disciple, Bernardo di Quintavalle, hunted like a wild
beast, passed two years in the forests of Monte-Sefro, hidden by a wood-cutter;[10] the other
first companions who did not succeed in flight had to undergo the severest usage. In the March
of Ancona, the home of the Spirituals, the victorious party used a terrible violence. The Will
was confiscated and destroyed; they went so far as to burn it over the head of a friar who
persisted in desiring to observe it.[11]

WILL (LITERAL TRANSLATION).

    See in what manner God gave it to me, to me, Brother Francis, to
    begin to do penitence; when I lived in sin, it was very painful
    to me to see lepers, but God himself led me into their midst,
    and I remained here a little while.[12] When I left them, that
    which had seemed to me bitter had become sweet and easy.

    A little while after I quitted the world, and God gave me such a
    faith in his churches that I would kneel down with simplicity
    and I would say: "We adore thee, Lord Jesus Christ, here and in
    all thy churches which are in the world, and we bless thee that
    by thy holy cross thou hast ransomed the world."

    Besides, the Lord gave me and still gives me so great a faith in
    priests who live according to the form of the holy Roman Church,
    because of their sacerdotal character, that even if they
    persecuted me I would have recourse to them. And even though I
    had all the wisdom of Solomon, if I should find poor secular
    priests, I would not preach in their parishes without their
    consent. I desire to respect them like all the others, to love
    them and honor them as my lords. I will not consider their
    sins, for in them I see the Son of God and they are my lords. I
    do this because here below I see nothing, I perceive nothing
    corporally of the most high Son of God, if not his most holy
    Body and Blood, which they receive and they alone distribute to
    others. I desire above all things to honor and venerate all
    these most holy mysteries and to keep them precious. Whenever I
    find the sacred names of Jesus or his words in indecent places,
    I desire to take them away, and I pray that others take them
    away and put them in some decent place. We ought to honor and
    revere all the theologians and those who preach the most holy
    word of God, as dispensing to us spirit and life.

    When the Lord gave me some brothers no one showed me what I
    ought to do, but the Most High himself revealed to me that I
    ought to live according to the model of the holy gospel. I
    caused a short and simple formula to be written, and the lord
    pope confirmed it for me.

    Those who presented themselves to observe this kind of life
    distributed all that they might have to the poor. They contented
    themselves with a tunic, patched within and without, with the
    cord and breeches, and we desired to have nothing more.

    The clerks said the office like other clerks, and the laymen
    Pater noster.

    We loved to live in poor and abandoned churches, and we were
    ignorant and submissive to all. I worked with my hands and would
    continue to do, and I will also that all other friars work at
    some honorable trade. Let those who have none learn one, not for
    the purpose of receiving the price of their toil, but for their
    good example and to flee idleness. And when they do not give us
    the price of the work, let us resort to the table of the Lord,
    begging our bread from door to door. The Lord revealed to me the
    salutation which we ought to give: "God give you peace!"

    Let the Brothers take great care not to receive churches,
    habitations, and all that men build for them, except as all is
    in accordance with the holy poverty which we have vowed in the
    Rule, and let them not receive hospitality in them except as
    strangers and pilgrims.

    I absolutely interdict all the brothers, in whatever place they
    may be found, from asking any bull from the court of Rome,
    whether directly or indirectly, under pretext of church or
    convent or under pretext of preachings, nor even for their
    personal protection. If they are not received anywhere let them
    go elsewhere, thus doing penance with the benediction of God.

    I desire to obey the minister-general of this fraternity, and
    the guardian whom he may please to give me. I desire to put
    myself entirely into his hands, to go nowhere and do nothing
    against his will, for he is my lord.

    Though I be simple and ill, I would, however, have always a
    clerk who will perform the office, as it is said in the Rule;
    let all the other brothers also be careful to obey their
    guardians and to do the office according to the Rule. If it come
    to pass that there are any who do not the office according to
    the Rule, and who desire to make any other change, or if they
    are not Catholics, let all the Brothers, wherever they may be,
    be bound by obedience to present them to the nearest custode.
    Let the custodes be bound by obedience to keep him well guarded
    like a man who is in bonds night and day, so that he may not
    escape from their hands until they personally place him in the
    minister's hands. And let the minister be bound by obedience to
    send him by brothers who will guard him as a prisoner day and
    night until they shall have placed him in the hands of the Lord
    Bishop of Ostia, who is the lord, the protector, and the
    correcter of all the Fraternity.[13]

    And let the Brothers not say: "This is a new Rule;" for this is
    a reminder, a warning, an exhortation; it is my Will, that I,
    little Brother Francis, make for you, my blessed Brothers, in
    order that we may observe in a more catholic way the Rule which
    we promised the Lord to keep.

    Let the ministers-general, all the other ministers and the
    custodes be held by obedience to add nothing to and take nothing
    from these words. Let them always keep this writing near them,
    beside the Rule; and in all the chapters which shall be held,
    when the Rule is read let these words be read also.

    I interdict absolutely, by obedience, all the Brothers, clerics
    and layman, to introduce glosses in the Rule, or in this Will,
    under pretext of explaining it. But since the Lord has given me
    to speak and to write the Rule and these words in a clear and
    simple manner, without commentary, understand them in the same
    way, and put them in practice until the end.

    And may whoever shall have observed these things be crowned in
    heaven with the blessings of the heavenly Father, and on earth
    with those of his well-beloved Son and of the Holy Spirit the
    consoler, with the assistance of all the heavenly virtues and
    all the saints.

    And I, little Brother Francis, your servitor, confirm to you so
    far as I am able this most holy benediction. Amen.

After thinking of his Brothers Francis thought of his dear Sisters at St. Damian and made a
will for them.

It has not come down to us, and we need not wonder; the Spiritual Brothers might flee away,
and protest from the depths of their retreats, but the Sisters were completely unarmed against
the machinations of the Common Observance.[14]

In the last words that he addressed to the Clarisses, after calling upon them to persevere
in poverty and union, he gave them his benediction.[15] Then he recommended them to the Brothers,
supplicating the latter never to forget that they were members of one and the same religious
family.[16] After having done all that he could for those whom he was about to leave, he thought
for a moment of himself.

He had become acquainted in Rome with a pious lady named Giacomina di Settisoli. Though rich,
she was simple and good, entirely devoted to the new ideas; even the somewhat singular characteristics
of Francis pleased her. He had given her a lamb which had become her inseparable companion.[17]

Unfortunately all that concerns her has suffered much from later retouchings of the legend.
The perfectly natural conduct of the Saint with women has much embarrassed his biographers;
hence heavy and distorted commentaries tacked on to episodes of a delicious simplicity.

Before dying Francis desired to see again this friend, whom he smilingly called Brother Giacomina.
He caused a letter to be written her to come to Portiuncula; we can imagine the dismay of the
narrators at this far from monastic invitation.

But the good lady had anticipated his appeal: at the moment when the messenger with the letter
was about to leave for Rome, she arrived at Portiuncula and remained there until the last sigh
of the Saint.[18] For one moment she thought of sending away her suite; the invalid was so
calm and joyful that she could not believe him dying, but he himself advised her to keep her
people with her. This time he felt with no possible doubt that his captivity was about to be ended.

He was ready, he had finished his work.

Did he think then of the day when, cursed by his father, he had renounced all earthly goods
and cried to God with an ineffable confidence, "Our Father who art in heaven!" We cannot say;
but he desired to finish his life by a symbolic act which very closely recalls the scene in
the bishop's palace.

He caused himself to be stripped of his clothing and laid upon the ground, for he wished to
die in the arms of his Lady Poverty. With one glance he embraced the twenty years that had
glided by since their union: "I have done my duty," he said to the Brothers, "may the Christ
now teach you yours!"[19]

This was Thursday, October 1.[20]

They laid him back upon his bed, and, conforming to his wishes, they again sang to him the
Canticle of the Sun.

At times he added his voice to those of his Brothers,[21] and came back with preference to
Psalm 142, Voce mea ad Dominum clamavi.[22]

  With my voice I cry unto the Lord,
  With my voice I implore the Lord,
  I pour out my complaint before him,
  I tell him all my distress.
  When my spirit is cast down within me,
  Thou knowest my path.
  Upon the way where I walk
  They have laid a snare for me,
  Cast thine eyes to the right and look!
  No one recognizes me;
  All refuge is lost for me,
  No one takes thought for my soul.
  Lord, unto thee I cry;
  I say: Thou art my refuge,
  My portion in the land of the living.
  Be attentive to my cries!
  For I am very unhappy.
  Deliver me from those who pursue me!
  For they are stronger than I.
  Bring my soul out of its prison
  That I may praise thy name.
  The righteous shall compass me about
  When thou hast done good unto me!

The visits of death are always solemn, but the end of the just is the most moving sursum corda
that we can hear on earth. The hours flowed by and the Brothers would not leave him. "Alas,
good Father," said one of them to him, unable longer to contain himself, "your children are
going to lose you, and be deprived of the true light which lightened them: think of the orphans
you are leaving and forgive all their faults, give to them all, present and absent, the joy
of your holy benediction."

"See," replied the dying man, "God is calling me. I forgive all my Brothers, present and absent,
their offences and faults, and absolve them according to my power. Tell them so, and bless
them all in my name."[23]

Then crossing his arms he laid his hands upon those who surrounded him. He did this with peculiar
emotion to Bernard of Quintavalle: "I desire," he said, "and with all my power I urge whomsoever
shall be minister-general of the Order, to love and honor him as myself; let the provincials
and all the Brothers act toward him as toward me."[24]

He thought not only of the absent Brothers but of the future ones; love so abounded in him
that it wrung from him a groan of regret for not seeing all those who should enter the Order
down to the end of time, that he might lay his hand upon their brows, and make them feel those
things that may only be spoken by the eyes of him who loves in God.[25]

He had lost the notion of time; believing that it was still Thursday he desired to take a last
meal with his disciples.

The sun was gilding the crests of the mountains with his last rays, there was silence around
the dying one. All was ready. The angel of death might come.

Saturday, October 3, 1226, at nightfall, without pain, without struggle, he breathed the last sigh.

The Brothers were still gazing on his face, hoping yet to catch some sign of life, when innumerable
larks alighted, singing, on the thatch of his cell,[27] as if to salute the soul which had
just taken flight and give the Little Poor Man the canonization of which he was most worthy,
the only one, doubtless, which he would ever have coveted.

On the morrow, at dawn, the Assisans came down to take possession of his body and give it a
triumphant funeral.

By a pious inspiration, instead of going straight to the city they went around by St. Damian,
and thus was realized the promise made by Francis to the Sisters a few weeks before, to come
once more to see them.

Their grief was heart-rending.

These women's hearts revolted against the absurdity of death;[28] but there were tears on that
day at St. Damian only. The Brothers forgot their sadness on seeing the stigmata, and the inhabitants
of Assisi manifested an indescribable joy on having their relic at last. They deposited it
in the Church St. George.[29]

Less than two years after, Sunday, July 26, 1228, Gregory IX. came to Assisi to preside in
person over the ceremonies of canonization, and to lay, on the morrow, the first stone of the
new church dedicated to the Stigmatized.

Built under the inspiration of Gregory IX. and the direction of Brother Elias, this marvellous
basilica is also one of the documents of this history, and perhaps I have been wrong in neglecting
it.

Go and look upon it, proud, rich, powerful, then go down to Portiuncula, pass over to St. Damian,
hasten to the Carceri, and you will understand the abyss that separates the ideal of Francis
from that of the pontiff who canonized him.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] Mortem cantando suscepit. 2 Cel., 3, 139.

   [2] The text here taken as a basis is that of the Assisi MS.,
       338 (f^o 16a-18a). It is also to be found in Firmamentum, f^o
       19, col. 4; Speculum, Morin, tract. iii., 8a; Wadding, ann.
       1226, 35; A. SS., p. 663; Amoni, Legenda Trium Sociorum;
       Appendix, p. 110. Everything in this document proclaims its
       authenticity, but we are not reduced to internal proof. It is
       expressly cited in 1 Cel., 17 (before 1230); by the Three
       Companions (1246), 3 Soc., 11; 26; 29; by 2 Cel., 3, 99 (1247).
       These proofs would be more than sufficient, but there is another
       of even greater value: the bull Quo elongati of September 28,
       1230, where Gregory IX. cites it textually and declares that the
       friars are not bound to observe it.

   [3] Promittet Franciscus obedientiam ... papæ ... et
       successoribus ... qui non possunt nec debent eis præcipere
       aliquid quod sit contra animam et regulam. Archiv., i, p.
       563.

   [4] Quod si quando a quocumque ... pontifice aliquid ...
       mandaretur quod esset contra fidem ... et caritatem et fructus
       ejus tunc obediet Deo magis quam hominibus. Ib., p. 561.

   [5] Est [Regula] et stat et intelligitur super eos ... Cum spei
       fiducia pace fruemur cum conscientiæ et Christi spiritus
       testimonio certo. Ib., pp. 563 and 565.

   [6] Archiv., ii., p. 274.

   [7] Ad mandatum illud vos dicimus non teneri: quod sine
       consensu Fratrum maxime ministrorum, quos universos tangebat
       obligare nequivit nec successorem suum quomodolibet obligavit;
       cum non habeat imperium par in parem. The sophism is barely
       specious; Francis was not on a par with his successors; he did
       not act as minister-general, but as founder.

   [8] Arbor vit. cruc., lib. v., cap. 3 and 5. See above, p.
       185.

   [9] Tribul., Laur., 25b; Archiv., i., p. 532.

  [10] At the summit of the Apennines, about half way between
       Camerino and Nocera (Umbria). Tribul., Laur., 26b; Magl.,
       135b.

  [11] Declaratio Ubertini, Archiv., iii., p. 168. This fact
       is not to be questioned, since it is alleged in a piece
       addressed to the pope, in response to the liberal friars, to
       whom it was to be communicated.

  [12] Feci moram cum illis., MS., 338. Most of the printed
       texts give miseracordiam, which gives a less satisfactory
       meaning. Cf. Miscellanea iii. (1888), p. 70; 1 Cel., 17; 3 Soc.,
       11.

  [13] It is evident that heresy is not here in question. The
       Brothers who were infected with it were to be delivered to the
       Church.

  [14] Urban IV. published, October 18, 1263, Potthast (18680), a
       Rule for the Clarisses which completely changed the character of
       this Order. Its author was the cardinal protector Giovanni degli
       Ursini (the future Nicholas III.), who by way of precaution
       forbade the Brothers Minor under the severest penalties to
       dissuade the Sisters from accepting it. "It differs as much from
       the first Rule," said Ubertini di Casali "as black and white,
       the savory and the insipid." Arbor. vit. cruc. lib. v., cap.
       vi.

  [15] V. Test. B. Claræ; Conform., 185a 1; Spec., 117b.

  [16] 2 Cel., 3, 132.

  [17] Bon., 112.

  [18] The Bollandists deny this whole story, which they find in
       opposition to the prescriptions of Francis himself. A. SS., p.
       664 ff. But it is difficult to see for what object authors who
       take great pains to explain it could have had for inventing it.
       Spec., 133a; Fior. iv.; consid.; Conform., 240a. I have
       borrowed the whole account from Bernard of Besse: De Laudibus,
       f^o 113b. It appears that Giacomina settled for the rest of her
       life at Assisi, that she might gain edification from the first
       companions of Francis. Spec., 107b. (What a lovely scene, and
       with what a Franciscan fragrance!) The exact date of her death
       is not known. She was buried in the lower church of the basilica
       of Assisi, and on her tomb was engraved: Hic jacit Jacoba
       sancta nobilisque romana. Vide Fratini: Storia della
       basilica, p. 48. Cf. Jacobilli: Vite dei Santi e Beati dell'
       Umbria, Foligno, 3 vols., 4to, 1647; i., p. 214.

  [19] 2 Cel., 3, 139; Bon., 209, 210; Conform., 171b, 2.

  [20] 2 Cel., 3, 139: Cum me videritis ... sicut me nudius
       tertius nudum vidistis.

  [21] 1 Cel., 109; 2 Cel., 3, 139.

  [22] 1 Cel., 109; Bon., 212.

  [23] 1 Cel., 109. Cf. Epist. Eliæ.

  [24] Tribul. Laur., 22b. Nothing better shows the historic
       value of the chronicle of the Tribulations than to compare its
       story of these moments with that of the following documents:
       Conform., 48b, 1; 185a, 2; Fior., 6.; Spec., 86a.

  [25] 2 Cel., 3, 139; Spec., 116b; Conform., 224b, 1.

  [26] 2 Cel., 3, 139. A simple comparison between this story in
       the Speculum (116b) and that in the Conformities (224b, 1)
       is enough to show how in certain of its parts the Speculum
       represents a state of the legend anterior to 1385.

  [27] Bon., 214. This cell has been transformed into a chapel and
       may be found a few yards from the little church of Portiuncula.
       Church and chapel are now sheltered under the great Basilica of
       Santa Maria degli Angeli. See the picture and plan, A. SS., p.
       814, or better still in P. Barnabas aus dem Elsass, Portiuncula
       oder Geschichte U. L. F. v. den Engeln. Rixheim, 1884, 1 vol.,
       8vo, pp. 311 and 312.

  [28] 1 Cel., 116 and 117; Bon., 219; Conform. 185a, 1.

  [29] To-day in the clôture of the convent St. Clara. Vide
       Miscellanea 1, pp. 44-48, a very interesting study by Prof.
       Carattoli upon the coffin of St. Francis.

       *       *       *       *       *

         CRITICAL STUDY OF THE SOURCES

       *       *       *       *       *

SUMMARY

I. ST. FRANCIS'S WORKS.

II. BIOGRAPHIES PROPERLY SO CALLED.

    1. Preliminary Note.

    2. First Life by Thomas of Celano.

    3. Review of the History of the Order 1230-1244.

    4. Legend of the Three Companions.

    5. Fragments of the Suppressed Portion of the Legend.

    6. Second Life by Thomas of Celano. First Part.

    7. Second Life by Thomas of Celano. Second Part.

    8. Documents of Secondary Importance:

         Biography for Use of the Choir.
         Life in Verse.
         Biography by Giovanni di Ceperano.
         Life by Brother Julian.

    9. Legend of St. Bonaventura.

   10. De Laudibus of Bernard of Besse.

III. DIPLOMATIC DOCUMENTS.

    1. Donation of the Verna.

    2. Registers of Cardinal Ugolini.

    3. Bulls.

IV. CHRONICLERS OF THE ORDER.

    1. Chronicle of Brother Giordano di Giano.

    2. Eccleston: Arrival of the Friars in England.

    3. Chronicle of Fra Salimbeni.

    4. Chronicle of the Tribulations.

    5. The Fioretti and their Appendices.

    6. Chronicle of the XXIV. Generals.

    7. The Conformities of Bartolommeo di Pisa.

    8. Glassberger's Chronicle.

    9. Chronicle of Mark of Lisbon.

V. CHRONICLERS NOT OF THE ORDER.

    1. Jacques de Vitry.

    2. Thomas of Spalato.

    3. Divers Chroniclers.

       *       *       *       *       *

CRITICAL STUDY OF THE SOURCES

There are few lives in history so abundantly provided with documents as that of St. Francis.
This will perhaps surprise the reader, but to convince himself he has only to run over the
preceding list, which, however, has been made as succinct as possible.

It is admitted in learned circles that the essential elements of this biography have disappeared
or have been entirely altered. The exaggeration of certain religious writers, who accept everything,
and among several accounts of the same fact always choose the longest and most marvellous,
has led to a like exaggeration in the contrary sense.

If it were necessary to point out the results of these two excesses as they affect each event,
this volume would need to be twice and even four times as large as it is. Those who are interested
in these questions will find in the notes brief indications of the original documents on which
each narrative is based.[1]

To close the subject of the errors which are current in the Franciscan documents, and to show
in a few lines their extreme importance, I shall take two examples. Among our own contemporaries
no one has so well spoken on the subject of St. Francis as M. Renan; he comes back to him with
affecting piety, and he was in a better condition than any one to know the sources of this
history. And yet he does not hesitate to say in his study of the Canticle of the Sun, Francis's
best known work: "The authenticity of this piece appears certain, but we must observe that
we have not the Italian original. The Italian text which we possess is a translation of a Portuguese
version, which was itself translated from the Spanish."[2]

And yet the primitive Italian exists[3] not only in numerous manuscripts in Italy and France,
particularly in the Mazarine Library,[4] but also in the well-known book of the Conformities.[5]

An error, grave from quite another point of view, is made by the same author when he denies
the authenticity of St. Francis's Will; this piece is not only the noblest expression of its
author's religious feeling, it constitutes also a sort of autobiography, and contains the solemn
and scarcely disguised revocation of all the concessions which had been wrung from him. We
have already seen that its authenticity is not to be challenged.[6] This double example will,
I hope, suffice to show the necessity of beginning this study by a conscientious examination
of the sources.

If the eminent historian to whom I have alluded were still living, he would have for this page
his large and benevolent smile, that simple, Oui, oui, which once made his pupils in the little
hall of the Collège de France to tremble with emotion.

I do not know what he would think of this book, but I well know that he would love the spirit
in which it was undertaken, and would easily pardon me for having chosen him for scape-goat
of my wrath against the learned men and biographers.

The documents to be examined have been divided into five categories.

The first includes St. Francis's works.

The second, biographies properly so called.

The third, diplomatic documents.

The fourth, chronicles of the Order.

The fifth, chronicles of authors not of the Order.

FOOTNOTES:

  [1] If any student finds himself embarrassed by the extreme
      rarity of certain works cited, I shall make it my duty and
      pleasure to send them to him, as well as a copy of the Italian
      manuscripts.

  [2] E. Renan: Nouvelles études d'histoire religieuse, Paris,
      1884, 8vo, p. 331.

  [3] See above, pp. 304 ff.

  [4] Mazarine Library, MS. 8531: Speculum perfectionis S.
      Francisci; the Canticle is found at fo. 51. Cf. MS., 1350 (date
      of 1459). That text was published by Boehmer in the Romanische
      Studien, Halle, 1871. pp. 118-122. Der Sonnengesang v. Fr.
      d'A.

  [5] Conform. (Milan, 1510), 202b, 2s. For that matter it is
      correct that Diola, in the Croniche degli ordini instituti da
      S. Francisco (Venice, 1606, 3 vols. 4to), translated after the
      Castilian version of the work composed in Portuguese by Mark of
      Lisbon, was foolish enough to render into Italian this
      translation of a translation.

  [6] See pages 333 ff.

       *       *       *       *       *

I

ST. FRANCIS'S WORKS

The writings of St. Francis[1] are assuredly the best source of acquaintance with him; we can
only be surprised to find them so neglected by most of his biographers. It is true that they
give little information as to his life, and furnish neither dates nor facts,[2] but they do
better, they mark the stages of his thought and of his spiritual development. The legends give
us Francis as he appeared, and by that very fact suffer in some degree the compulsion of circumstances;
they are obliged to bend to the exigencies of his position as general of an Order approved
by the Church, as miracle-worker, and as saint. His works, on the contrary, show us his very
soul; each phrase has not only been thought, but lived; they bring us the Poverello's emotions,
still alive and palpitating.

So, when in the writings of the Franciscans we find any utterance of their master, it unconsciously
betrays itself, sounding out suddenly in a sweet, pure tone which penetrates to your very heart,
awakening with a thrill a sprite that was sleeping there.

This bloom of love enduing St. Francis's words would be an admirable criterion of the authenticity
of those opuscules which tradition attributes to him; but the work of testing is neither long
nor difficult. If after his time injudicious attempts were here and there made to honor him
with miracles which he did not perform, which he would not even have wished to perform, no
attempt was ever made to burden his literary efforts with false or supposititious pieces.[3]
The best proof of this is that it is not until Wadding--that is to say, until the seventeenth
century--that we find the first and only serious attempt to collect these precious memorials.
Several of them have been lost,[4] but those which remain are enough to give us in some sort
the refutation of the legends.

In these pages Francis gives himself to his readers, as long ago he gave himself to his companions;
in each one of them a feeling, a cry of the heart, or an aspiration toward the Invisible is
prolonged down to our own time.

Wadding thought it his duty to give a place in his collection to several suspicious pieces;
more than this, instead of following the oldest manuscripts that he had before him, he often
permitted himself to be led astray by sixteenth-century writers whose smallest concern was
to be critical and accurate. To avoid the tedious and entirely negative task to which it would
be necessary to proceed if I took him for my starting-point I shall confine myself to a positive
study of this question.

All the pieces which will be enumerated are found in his collection. They are sometimes cut
up in a singular way; but in proportion as each document is studied we shall find sufficient
indications to enable us to make the necessary rectifications.

The archives of Sacro Convento of Assisi[5] possess a manuscript whose importance is not to
be overestimated. It has already been many times studied,[6] and bears the number 338.

It appears, however, that a very important detail of form has been overlooked. It is this:
that No. 338 is not one manuscript, but a collection of manuscripts of very different periods,
which were put together because they were of very nearly the same size, and have been foliated
in a peculiar manner.

This artificial character of the collection shows that each of the pieces which compose it
needs to be examined by itself, and that it is impossible to say of it as a whole that it is
of the thirteenth or the fourteenth century.

The part that interests us is perfectly homogeneous, is formed of three parchment books (fol.
12a-44b) and contains a part of Francis's works.

1. The Rule, definitively approved by Honorius III., November 20, 1223[7] (fol. 12a-16a).

2. St. Francis's Will[8] (fol. 16a-18a).

3. The Admonitions[9] (fol. 18a-23b).

4. The Letter to all Christians[10] (fol. 23b-28a).

5. The letter to all the members of the Order assembled in Chapter-general[11] (fol. 28a-31a).

6. Counsel to all clerics on the respect to be paid to the Eucharist[12] (fol., 31b-32b).

7. A very short piece preceded by the rubric: "Of the virtues which adorn the Virgin Mary and
which ought to adorn the holy soul"[13] (fol. 32b).

8. The Laudes Creaturarum, or Canticle of the Sun[14] (fol. 33a).

9. A paraphrase of the Pater introduced by the rubric: Incipiunt laudes quas ordinavit. B.
pater noster Franciscus et dicebat ipsas ad omnes horas diei et noctis et ante officium B.
V. Mariæ sic incipiens: Sanctissime Pater[15] (fol. 34a).

10. The office of the Passion (34b-43a). This office, where the psalms are replaced by several
series of biblical verses, are designed to make him who repeats them follow, hour by hour,
the emotions of the Crucified One from the evening of Holy Thursday.[16]

11. A rule for friars in retreat in hermitages[17] (fol. 43a-43b).

A glance over this list is enough to show that the works of Francis here collected are addressed
to all the Brothers, or are a sort of encyclicals, which they are charged to pass on to those
for whom they are destined.

The very order of these pieces shows us that we have in this manuscript the primitive library
of the Brothers Minor, the collection of which each minister was to carry with him a copy.
It was truly their viaticum.

Matthew Paris tells us of his amazement at the sight of these foreign monks, clothed in patched
tunics, and carrying their books in a sort of case suspended from their necks.[18]

The Assisi manuscript was without doubt destined to this service; if it is silent on the subject
of the journeys it has made, and of the Brothers to whom it has been a guide and an inspiration,
it at least brings us, more than all the legends, into intimacy with Francis, makes us thrill
in unison with that heart which never admitted a separation between joy, love, and poetry.
As to the date of this manuscript, one must needs be a paleographer to determine. We have already
found a hypothesis which, if well grounded, would carry it back to the neighborhood of 1240.[19]

Its contents seem to countenance this early date. In fact, it contains several pieces of which
the Manual of the Brother Minor very early rid itself.

Very soon they were content to have only the Rule to keep company with the breviary; sometimes
they added the Will. But the other writings, if they did not fall entirely into neglect, ceased
at least to be of daily usage.

Those of St. Francis's writings which are not of general interest or do not concern the Brothers
naturally find no place in this collection. In this new category we must range the following
documents:

1. The Rule of 1221.[20]

2. The Rule of the Clarisses, which we no longer possess in its original form.[21]

3. A sort of special instruction for ministers-general.[22]

4. A letter to St. Clara.[23]

5. Another letter to the same.[24]

6. A letter to Brother Leo.[25]

7. A few prayers.[26]

8. The benediction of Brother Leo. The original autograph, which is preserved in the treasury
of Sacro Convento, has been very well reproduced by heliograph.[27]

As to the two famous hymns Amor de caritade[28] and In foco l'amor mi mise,[29] they cannot
be attributed to St. Francis, at least in their present form.

It belongs to M. Monaci and his numerous and learned emulators to throw light upon these delicate
questions by publishing in a scientific manner the earliest monuments of Italian poetry.

I have already spoken of several tracts of which assured traces have been found, though they
themselves are lost. They are much more numerous than would at first be supposed. In the missionary
zeal of the early years the Brothers would not concern themselves with collecting documents.
We do not write our memoirs in the fulness of our youth.

We must also remember that Portiuncula had neither archives nor library. It was a chapel ten
paces long, with a few huts gathered around it. The Order was ten years old before it had seen
any other than a single book: a New Testament. The Brothers did not even keep this one. Francis,
having nothing else, gave it to a poor woman who asked for alms, and when Pietro di Catania,
his vicar, expressed his surprise at this prodigality: "Has she not given her two sons to the
Order?" replied the master[30] quickly.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] Collected first by Wadding (Antwerp, 1623, 4to), they have
       been published many times since then, particularly by De la Haye
       (Paris, 1641, f^o). These two editions having become scarce,
       were republished--in a very unsatisfactory manner--by the Abbé
       Horoy: S. Francisci Assisiatis opera omnia (Paris, 1880, 4to).
       For want of a more exact edition, that of Father Bernardo da
       Fivizzano is the most useful: Opuscoli di S. Francesco
       d'Assisi, 1 vol., 12mo, pp. 564, Florence, 1880. The Latin text
       is accompanied by an Italian translation.

   [2] "Die Briefe, die unter seinem Namen gehen, mögen theilweise
       ächt sein. Aber sie tragen kaum etwas zur näheren Kenntniss bei
       und können daher fast ganz ausser Acht bleiben." Müller, Die
       Anfänge des Minoritenordens, Freiburg, 1 vol., 8vo, 1885, p. 3.

   [3] Pieces have been often attributed to St. Francis which do
       not belong to him; but those are unintentional errors and made
       without purpose. The desire for literary exactness is relatively
       of recent date, and it was easier for those who were ignorant of
       the author of certain Franciscan writings to attribute them to
       St. Francis than to admit their ignorance or to make deep
       researches.

   [4] For example, the first Rule; probably also a few canticles;
       a letter to the Brothers in France, Eccl., 6; another to the
       Brothers in Bologna: "Prædixerat per litteram in qua fuit
       plurimum latinum," Eccl., ib.; a letter to Antony of Padua,
       other than the one we have, since on the witness of Celano it
       was addressed: Fratri Antonio episcopo meo (2 Cel., 3, 99);
       certain letters to St. Clara: "Scripsit Claræ et sororibus ad
       consolationem litteram in quâ dabat benedictionem suam et
       absolvebat," etc. Conform., f^o. 185a, 1; cf. Test. B.
       Claræ. A. SS., Augusti, t. ii., p. 767: "Plura scripta
       tradidit nobis, ne post mortem suam declinaremus a paupertate;"
       certain letters to Cardinal Ugolini, 3 Soc., 67.

       It is not to negligence alone that we must attribute the loss of
       many of the epistles: "Quod nephas est cogitare, in provincia
       Marchie et in pluribus aliis locis testamentum beati Francisci
       mandaverunt (prelati ordinis) districte per obedientiam ab
       omnibus auferi et comburi. Et uni fratri devoto et sancto, cujus
       nomen est N. de Rocanato combuxerunt dicum testamentum super
       caput suum. Et toto conatu fuerunt solliciti, annulare scripta
       beati patris nostri Francisci, in quibus sua intentio de
       observantia regule declaratur." Ubertino di Casali, apud
       Archiv., iii., pp. 168-169.

   [5] Italy is too obliging to artists, archæologists, and
       scholars not to do them the favor of disposing in a more
       practical manner this trust, the most precious of all Umbria.
       Even with the indefatigable kindness of the curator, M.
       Alessandro, and of the municipality of Assisi, it is very
       difficult to profit by these treasures heaped up in a dark room
       without a table to write upon.

   [6] In particular by Ehrle: Die historischen Handschriften von
       S. Francesco in Assisi. Archiv., t. i., p. 484.

   [7] See pages 252 ff ... and 283.

   [8] See pages 333 ff.

   [9] See pages 259 ff.

  [10] See page 325 ff.

  [11] See pages 322 ff.

  [12] See page 327.

  [13] I give it entire: "Regina sapientia, Dominus te salvet,
       cum tua sorore sancta pura simplicitate.--Domina sancta
       paupertas, Domimus te salvet, cum tua sorore sancta
       humilitate.--Domina sancta caritas, Dominus te salvet, cum tua
       sorrore sancta obedientia. Sanctissimæ virtutes omnes, vos
       salvet Dominus, a quo venitis et proceditis." Its authenticity
       is guaranteed by a citation by Celano: 2 Cel., 3, 119. Cf. 126b
       and 127a.

  [14] See pages 304 f.

  [15] I shall not recur to this: the text is in the Conformities
       138a 2.

  [16] The authenticity of this service, to which there is not a
       single allusion in the biographies of St. Francis, is rendered
       certain by the life of St. Clara: "Officium crucis, prout
       crucis amator Franciscus instituerat (Clara) didicit et affectu
       simili frequentavit." A. SS., Augusti, t. ii., p. 761a.

  [17] It begins: Illi qui volunt stare in heremis. This text is
       also found in the Conformities, 143a, 1. Cf. 2 Cel., 3, 43; see
       p. 97.

  [18] Nudis pedibus incedentes, funiculis cincti, tunicis
       griseis et talaribus peciatis, insuto capucio utentes ... nihil
       sibi ultra noctem reservantes ... libros continue suos ... in
       forulis a collo dependentes bajulantes. Historia Anglorum,
       Pertz: Script., t. 28, p. 397. Cf. 2 Cel., 3, 135; Fior., 5;
       Spec., 45b.

  [19] See page 322 n.

  [20] See page 252.

  [21] See page 157.

  [22] See pages 318 ff.

  [23] See page 239.

  [24] See page 327.

  [25] See page 262.

  [26] a. Sanctus Dominus Deus noster. Cf. Spec., 126a;
       Firmamentum, 18b, 2; Conform., 202b, 1.

       b. Ave Domina sancta. Cf. Spec., 127a; Conform., 138a, 2.

       c. Sancta Maria virgo. Cf. Spec., 126b; Conform., 202b,  2.

  [27] Vide S. François, in 4to, Paris. 1885 (Plon), p. 233. The
       authenticity of this benediction appears to be well established,
       since it was already jealously guarded during the life of Thomas
       of Celano. No one has ever dreamed of requiring historical proof
       of this writing. Is this perhaps a mistake? The middle of the
       sheet is taken up with the benediction which was dictated to
       Brother Leo: Benedicat tibi Dominus et custodiat te, ostendat
       faciem suam tibi et misereatur tui convertat vultum suum ad te
       et det tibi pacem. At the bottom, Francis added the letter
       tau. ~[Greek: Tau]~, which was, so to speak, his signature
       (Bon., 51; 308), and the words: Frater Leo Dominus benedicat te.

       Then when this memorial became a part of the relics of the
       Saint, Brother Leo, to authenticate it in a measure, added the
       following notes: toward the middle: Beatus Franciscus
       scripsit manu sua istam benedictionem mihi fratri Leoni;
       toward the close: Simili modo fecit istud signum thau cum
       capite manu sua. But the most valuable annotation is found at
       the top of the sheet: Beatus Franciscus duobus annis ante
       mortem suam fecit quadragesimam in loco Alvernæ ad honorem
       Beatæ Virginia Mariæ matris Dei et beati Michael archangeli a
       festo assumptionis sanctæ Mariæ Virginis usque ad festum
       sancti Michael septembris et facta est super eum manus Domini
       per visionem et allucotionem seraphym et impressionem
       stigmatum in corpore suo. Fecit has laudes ex alio latere
       catule scriptas et manu, sua scripsit gratias agens Domino de
       beneficio sibi collato. Vide 2 Cel., 2, 18.

  [28] Wadding gives the text according to St. Bernardino da
       Siena. Opera, t. iv., sermo 16, extraord. et sermo feriæ
       sextæ Parasceves. Amoni: Legenda trium sociorum, p. 166.

  [29] Wadding has drawn the text from St. Bernardino, loc.
       cit., sermo iv., extraord. It was also reproduced by Amoni,
       loc. cit., p. 165. Two very curious versions may be found in
       the Miscellanea, 1888, pp. 96 and 190.

  [30] 2 Cel., 3, 35. This took place under the vicariat of Pietro
       di Catania; consequently between September 29, 1220, and March
       10, 1221.

       *       *       *       *       *

II

BIOGRAPHIES PROPERLY SO CALLED

I. PRELIMINARY NOTE

To form a somewhat exact notion of the documents which are to occupy us, we must put them back
into the midst of the circumstances in which they appeared, study them in detail, and determine
the special value of each one.

Here, more than anywhere else, we must beware of facile theories and hasty generalizations.
The same life described by two equally truthful contemporaries may take on a very different
coloring. This is especially the case if the man concerned has aroused enthusiasm and wrath,
if his inmost thought, his works, have been the subject of discussion, if the very men who
were commissioned to realize his ideals and carry on his work are divided, and at odds with
one another.

This was the case with St. Francis. In his lifetime and before his own eyes divergences manifested
themselves, at first secretly, then in the light of day.

In a rapture of love he went from cottage to cottage, from castle to castle, preaching absolute
poverty; but that buoyant enthusiasm, that unbounded idealism, could not last long. The Order
of the Brothers Minor in process of growth was open not only to a few choice spirits aflame
with mystic fervor, but to all men who aspired after a religious reformation; pious laymen,
monks undeceived as to the virtues of the ancient Orders, priests shocked at the vices of the
secular clergy, all brought with them--unintentionally no doubt and even unconsciously--too
much of their old man not by degrees to transform the institution.

Francis perceived the peril several years before his death, and made every effort to avert
it. Even in his dying hour we see him summoning all his powers to declare his Will once again,
and as clearly as possible, and to conjure his Brothers never to touch the Rule, even under
pretext of commenting upon or explaining it. Alas! four years had not rolled away when Gregory
IX., at the prayer of the Brothers themselves, became the first one of a long series of pontiffs
who have explained the Rule.[1]

Poverty, as Francis understood it, soon became only a memory. The unexampled success of the
Order brought to it not merely new recruits, but money. How refuse it when there were so many
works to found? Many of the friars discovered that their master had exaggerated many things,
that shades of meaning were to be observed in the Rule, for example, between counsels and precepts.
The door once opened to interpretations, it became impossible to close it. The Franciscan family
began to be divided into opposing parties often difficult to distinguish.

At first there were a few restless, undisciplined men who grouped themselves around the older
friars. The latter, in their character of first companions of the Saint, found a moral authority
often greater than the official authority of the ministers and guardians. The people turned
to them by instinct as to the true continuers of St. Francis's work. They were not far from right.

They had the vigor, the vehemence of absolute convictions; they could not have temporized had
they desired to do so. When they emerged from their hermitages in the Apennines, their eyes
shining with the fever of their ideas, absorbed in contemplation, their whole being spoke of
the radiant visions they enjoyed; and the amazed and subdued multitude would kneel to kiss
the prints of their feet with hearts mysteriously stirred.

A larger group was that of those Brothers who condemned these methods without being any the
less saints. Born far away from Umbria, in countries where nature seems to be a step-mother,
where adoration, far from being the instinctive act of a happy soul soaring upward to bless
the heavenly Father, is, on the contrary, the despairing cry of an atom lost in immensity,
they desired above all things a religious reformation, rational and profound. They dreamed
of bringing the Church back to the purity of the ancient days, and saw in the vow of poverty,
understood in its largest sense, the best means of struggling against the vices of the clergy;
but they forgot the freshness, the Italian gayety, the sunny poetry that there had been in
Francis's mission.

Full of admiration for him, they yet desired to enlarge the foundations of his work, and for
that they would neglect no means of influence, certainly not learning.

This tendency was the dominant one in France, Germany, and England. In Italy it was represented
by a very powerful party, powerful if not in the number, at least in the authority, of its
representatives. This was the party favored by the papacy. It was the party of Brother Elias
and all the ministers-general of the Order in the thirteenth century, if we except Giovanni
di Parma (1247-1257) and Raimondo Gaufridi (1289-1295).

In Italy a third group, the liberals, was much more numerous; men of mediocrity to whom monastic
life appeared the most facile existence, vagrant monks happy to secure an aftermath of success
by displaying the new Rule, formed in this country the greater part of the Franciscan family.

We can understand without difficulty that documents emanating from such different quarters
must bear the impress of their origin. The men who are to bring us their testimony are combatants
in the struggle over the question of poverty, a struggle which for two centuries agitated the
Church, aroused all consciences, and which had its monsters and its martyrs.

To determine the value of these witnesses we must first of all discover their origin. It is
evident that the narratives of the no-compromise party of the right or the left can have but
slender value where controverted points are concerned; whence the conclusion that the authority
of a narrator may vary from page to page, or even from line to line.

These considerations, so simple that one almost needs to beg pardon for uttering them, have
not, however, guided those who have studied St. Francis's life. The most learned, like Wadding
and Papini, have brought together the narratives of different biographers, here and there pruning
those that are too contradictory; but they have done this at random, with neither rule nor
method, guided by the impression of the moment.

The long work of the Bollandist Suysken is vitiated by an analogous fault; fixed in his principle
that the oldest documents are always the best,[2] he takes his stand upon the first Life of
Thomas of Celano as upon an impregnable rock, and judges all other legends by that one.[3]

When we connect the documents with the disturbed circumstances which brought them into being,
some of them lose a little of their authority, others which have been neglected, as being in
contradiction with witnesses who have become so to say official, suddenly recover credit, and
in fact all gain a new life which doubles their interest.

This altered point of view in the valuation of the sources, this criticism which I am inclined
to call reciprocal and organic, brings about profound alterations in the biography of St. Francis.
By a phenomenon which may appear strange we end by sketching a portrait of him much more like
that which exists in the popular imagination of Italy than that made by the learned historians
above mentioned.

When Francis died (1226) the parties which divided the Order had already entered into conflict.
That event precipitated the crisis: Brother Elias had been for five years exercising the functions
of minister-general with the title of vicar. He displayed an amazing activity. Intrenched in
the confidence of Gregory IX. he removed the Zelanti from their charges, strengthened the discipline
even in the most remote provinces, obtained numerous privileges from the curia, and with incredible
rapidity prepared for the building of the double basilica, destined for the repose of the ashes
of the Stigmatized Saint; but notwithstanding all his efforts, the chapter of 1227 set him
aside and chose Giovanni Parenti as minister-general.

Furious at this check, he immediately set all influences to work to be chosen at the following
chapter. It even seems as if he paid no attention to the nomination of Giovanni Parenti, and
continued to go on as if he had been minister.[4]

Very popular among the Assisans, who were dazzled by the magnificence of the monument which
was springing up on the Hill of Hell, now become the Hill of Paradise, sure of being supported
by a considerable party in the Order and by the pope, he pushed forward the work on the basilica
with a decision and success perhaps unique in the annals of architecture.[5]

All this could not be done without arousing the indignation of the Zealots of poverty. When
they saw a monumental poor-box, designed to receive the alms of the faithful, upon the tomb
of him who had forbidden his disciples the mere contact of money, it seemed to them that Francis's
prophecy of the apostasy of a part of the Order was about to be fulfilled. A tempest of revolt
swept over the hermitages of Umbria. Must they not, by any means, prevent this abomination
in the holy place?

They knew that Elias was terrible in his severities, but his opponents felt in themselves courage
to go to the last extremity, and suffer everything to defend their convictions. One day the
poor-box was found shattered by Brother Leo and his friends.[6]

To this degree of intensity the struggle had arrived. At this crisis the first legend appeared.

II. First Life by Thomas of Celano[7]

Thomas of Celano, in writing this legend, to which he was later to return for its completion,
obeyed an express order of Pope Gregory IX.[8]

Why did he not apply to one of the Brothers of the Saint's immediate circle? The talent of
this author might explain this choice, but besides the fact that literary considerations would
in this case hold a secondary place, Brother Leo and several others proved later that they
also knew how to handle the pen.

If Celano was put in trust with the official biography, it is because, being equally in sympathy
with Gregory IX. and Brother Elias, his absence had kept him out of the conflicts which had
marked the last years of Francis's life. Of an irenic temper, he belonged to the category of
those souls who easily persuade themselves that obedience is the first of virtues, that every
superior is a saint; and if unluckily he is not, that we should none the less act as though
he were.

We have some knowledge of his life. A native of Celano in the Abruzzi, he discreetly observes
that his family was noble, even adding, with a touch of artless simplicity, that the master
had a peculiar regard for noble and educated Brothers. He entered the Order about 1215,[9]
on the return of Francis from Spain.

At the chapter of 1221 Cæsar of Speyer, charged with the mission to Germany, took him among
those who were to accompany him.[10] In 1223 he was named custode of Mayence, Worms, Cologne,
and Speyer. In April of the same year, when Cæsar returned to Italy, devoured with the longing
to see St. Francis again, he commissioned Celano to execute his functions until the arrival
of the new provincial.[11]

We have no information as to where he was after the chapter-general held at Speyer September
8, 1223. He must have been in Assisi in 1228, for his account of the canonization is that of
an eye-witness. He was there again in 1230, and doubtless clothed with an important office,
since he could commit to Brother Giordano the relics of St. Francis.[12]

Written in a pleasing style, very often poetic, his work breathes an affecting admiration for
his hero; his testimony at once makes itself felt as sincere and true: when he is partial it
is without intention and even without his knowledge. The weak point in this biography is the
picture which it outlines of the relations between Brother Elias and the founder of the Order:
from the chapters devoted to the last two years we receive a very clear impression that Elias
was named by Francis to succeed him.[13]

Now if we reflect that at the time when Celano wrote, Giovanni Parenti was minister-general,
we at once perceive the bearing of these indications.[14] Every opportunity is seized to give
a preponderating importance to Elias.[15] It is a true manifesto in his favor.

Have we reason to blame Celano? I think not. We must simply remember that his work might with
justice be called the legend of Gregory IX. Elias was the pope's man, and the biography is
worked up from the information he gave. He could not avoid dwelling with peculiar satisfaction
upon his intimacy with Francis.

On the other hand, we cannot expect to find here such details as might have sustained the pretension
of the adversaries of Elias, those unruly Zealots who were already proudly adorning themselves
with the title of Companions of the Saint and endeavoring to constitute a sort of spiritual
aristocracy in the Order. Among them were four who during the last two years had not, so to
say, quitted Francis. We can imagine how difficult it was not to speak of them. Celano carefully
omits to mention their names under pretext of sparing their modesty;[16] but by the praises
lavished upon Gregory IX., Brother Elias,[17] St. Clara,[18] and even upon very secondary persons,
he shows that his discretion is far from being always so alert.

All this is very serious, but we must not exaggerate it. There is an evident partiality, but
it would be unjust to go farther and believe, as men did later, that the last part of Francis's
life was an active struggle against the very person of Elias. A struggle there surely was,
but it was against tendencies whose spring Francis did not perceive. He carried with him to
his tomb his delusion as to his co-laborer.

For that matter this defect is after all secondary so far as the physiognomy of Francis himself
is concerned. In Celano's Life, as in the Three Companions or the Fioretti, he appears with
a smile for all joys, and floods of tears for all woes; we feel everywhere the restrained emotion
of the writer; his heart is subjected by the moral beauty of his hero.

III. SURVEY OF THE HISTORY OF THE ORDER FROM 1230-1244

When Thomas of Celano closed his legend he perceived more than anyone the deficiencies of his
work, for which he had been able to collect but insufficient material.

Elias and the other Assisan brothers had told him of Francis's youth and his activity in Umbria;
but besides that he would have preferred, whether from prudence or from love of peace, to keep
silence upon certain events,[19] there were long periods upon which he had not received a single
item of information.[20]

He therefore seems to indicate his intention of resuming and completing his work.[21]

This is not the place to write the history of the Order, but a few facts are necessary to put
the documents into their proper surroundings.

Elected minister-general in 1232, Brother Elias took advantage of the fact to labor with indomitable
energy toward the realization of his own ideas. In all the provinces new collections were organized
for the Basilica of Assisi, the work upon which was pushed with an activity which however injured
neither the strength of the edifice nor the beauty of its details, which are as finished and
perfect as those of any monument in Europe.

We may conceive of the enormous sums which it had been necessary to raise in order to complete
such an enterprise in so short a time. More than that, Brother Elias exacted absolute obedience
from all his subordinates; naming and removing the provincial ministers according to his personal
views, he neglected to convoke the chapter-general, and sent his emissaries under the name
of visitors into all the provinces to secure the execution of his orders.

The moderate party in Germany, France, and England very soon found his yoke insupportable.
It was hard for them to be directed by an Italian minister resident at Assisi, a small town
quite aside from the highways of civilization, entirely a stranger to the scientific movement
concentred in the universities of Oxford, Paris, and Bologna.

In the indignation of the Zelanti against Elias and his contempt for the Rule, they found a
decisive support. Very soon the minister had for his defence nothing but his own energy, and
the favor of the pope and of the few Italian moderates. By a great increase of vigilance and
severity he repressed several attempts at revolt.

His adversaries, however, succeeded in establishing secret intelligence at the court of Rome;
even the pope's confessor was gained; yet in spite of all these circumstances, the success
of the conspiracy was still uncertain when the chapter of 1239 opened.

Gregory IX., still favorable to Elias,[22] presided. Fear gave sudden courage to the conspirators;
they threw their accusations in their enemy's face.

Thomas of Eccleston gives a highly colored narrative of what took place. Elias was proud, violent,
even threatening. There were cries and vociferations from both sides; they were about to come
to blows when a few words from the pope restored silence. He had made up his mind to abandon
his protégé. He asked for his resignation. Elias indignantly refused.

Gregory IX. then explained that in keeping him in charge he had thought himself acting in accordance
with the wishes of the majority: that he had no intention to dominate the Order, and, since
the Brothers no longer desired Elias, he declared him deposed from the generalate.

The joy of the victors, says Eccleston, was immense and ineffable. They chose Alberto di Pisa,
provincial of England, to succeed him, and from that time bent all their efforts to represent
Elias as a creature of Frederick II.[23] The former minister wrote indeed to the pope to explain
his conduct, but the letter did not reach its destination. It must have reached the hands of
his successor, and not been sent forward; when Alberto of Pisa died it was found in his tunic.[24]

All the fury of the aged pontiff was unchained against Elias. One must read the documents to
see to what a height his anger could rise. The friar retorted with a virulence which though
less wordy was far more overpowering.[25]

These events gained an indescribable notoriety[26] all over Europe and threw the Order into
profound disturbance. Many of the partisans of Elias became convinced that they had been deceived
by an impostor, and they drew toward the group of Zealots, who never ceased to demand the observance
pure and simple of the Rule and the Will.

Thomas of Celano was of this number.[27] With profound sadness he saw the innumerable influences
that were secretly undermining the Franciscan institute and menacing it with ruin. Already
a refrain was going the rounds of the convents, singing the victory of Paris over Assisi, that
is, of learning over poverty.

The Zealots gained new courage. Unaccustomed to the subtleties of ecclesiastical politics,
they did not perceive that the pope, while condemning Brother Elias, had in nowise modified
the general course which he had marked out for the Order. The ministers-general, Alberto di
Pisa, 1239-1240, Aymon of Faversham, 1240-1244, Crescentius de Jesi, 1244-1247, were all, with
different shades of meaning, representatives of the moderate party.

Thomas of Celano's first legend had become impossible. The prominence there given to Elias
was almost a scandal. The necessity of working it over and completing it became clearly evident
at the chapter of Genoa (1244).

All the Brothers who had anything to tell about Francis's life were invited to commit it to
writing and send it to the minister Crescentius de Jesi.[28] The latter immediately caused
a tract to be drawn up in the form of a dialogue, commencing with the words: "Venerabilium
gesta Patrum." So soon after as the time of Bernard de Besse, only fragments of this were left.[29]

But happily several of the works which saw the light in consequence of the decision of this
chapter have been preserved to us. It is to this that we owe the Legend of the Three Companions
and the Second Life by Thomas of Celano.

IV. LEGEND OF THE THREE COMPANIONS[30]

The life of St. Francis which has come down to us under the name of the Legend of the Three
Companions was finished on August 11, 1246, in a little convent in the vale of Rieti, which
appears often in the course of this history, that of Greccio. This hermitage had been Francis's
favorite abode, especially in the latter part of his life. He had thus made it doubly dear
to the hearts of his disciples.[31] It naturally became, from the earliest days of the Order,
the headquarters of the Observants,[32] and it remains through all the centuries one of the
purest centres of Franciscan piety.

The authors of this legend were men worthy to tell St. Francis's story, and perhaps the most
capable of doing it: the friars Leo, Angelo, and Rufino. All three had lived in intimacy with
him, and had been his companions through the most important years. More than this, they took
the trouble to go to others for further information, particularly to Filippo, the visitor of
the Clarisses, to Illuminato di Rieti, Masseo di Marignano, John, the confidant of Egidio,
and Bernardo di Quintavalle.

Such names as these promise much, and happily we are not disappointed in our expectation. As
it has come down to us, this document is the only one worthy from the point of view of history
to be placed beside the First Life by Celano.

The names of the authors and the date of the composition indicate before examination the tendency
with which it is likely to be in harmony. It is the first manifesto of the Brothers who remained
faithful to the spirit and letter of the Rule. This is confirmed by an attentive reading; it
is at least as much a panegyric of Poverty as a history of St. Francis.

We naturally expect to see the Three Companions relating to us with a very particular delight
the innumerable features of the legends of which Greccio was the theatre; we turn to the end
of the volume, expecting to find the story of the last years of which they were witnesses,
and are lost in surprise to find nothing of the kind.

While the first half of the work describes Francis's youth, filling out here and there Celano's
First Life, the second[33] is devoted to a picture of the early days of the Order, a picture
of incomparable freshness and intensity of life; but strangely enough, after having told us
so much at length of Francis's youth and then of the first days of the Order, the story abruptly
leaps over from the year 1220 to the death and the canonization, to which after all only a
few pages are given.[34]

This is too extraordinary to be the result of chance. What has happened? It is evident that
the Legend of the Three Companions as we have it to-day is only a fragment of the original,
which was no doubt revised, corrected, and considerably cut down by the authorities of the
Order before they would permit it to be circulated.[35] If the authors had been interrupted
in their work, and obliged to cut short the end, as might have been the case, they would have
said so in their letter of envoy, but there are still other arguments in favor of our hypothesis.

Brother Leo having had the first and principal part in the production of the work of the Three
Companions, it is often called Brother Leo's Legend; now Brother Leo's Legend is several times
cited by Ubertini di Casali, arraigned before the court of Avignon by the party of the Common
Observance. Evidently Ubertini would have taken good care not to appeal to an apocryphal document;
a false citation would have been enough to bring him to confusion, and his enemies would not
have failed to make the most of his imprudence. We have at hand all the documents of the trial,[36]
attacks, replies, counter replies, and nowhere do we see the Liberals accuse their adversary
of falsehood. For that matter, the latter makes his citations with a precision that admits
of no cavil.[37] He appeals to writings to be found in a press in the convent of Assisi, of
which he gives sometimes a copy, sometimes an original.[38] We are then authorized to conclude
that we have here fragments which have survived the suppression of the last and most important
part of the Legend of the Three Companions.

It is not surprising that the work of Francis's dearest friends should have been so seriously
mutilated. It was the manifesto of a party that Crescentius was hunting down with all his power.

After the fleeting reaction of the generalate of Giovanni di Parma we shall see a man of worth
like St. Bonaventura moving for the suppression of all the primitive legends that his own compilation
may be substituted for them.

It is truly singular that no one has perceived the fragmentary state of the work of the Three
Companions. The prologue alone might have suggested this idea. Why should it take three to
write a few pages? Why this solemn enumeration of Brothers whose testimony and collaboration
are asked for? There would be a surprising disproportion between the effort and the result.

More than all, the authors say that they shall not stop at relating the miracles, but they
desire above all to exhibit the ideas of Francis and his life with the Brothers, but we search
in vain for any account of miracles in what we now have.[39]

An Italian translation of this legend, published by Father Stanislaus Melchiorri,[40] has suddenly
given me an indirect confirmation of this point of view. This monk is only its publisher, and
has simply been able to discover that in 1577 it was taken from a very ancient manuscript by
a certain Muzio Achillei di San Severino.[41]

This Italian translation contained only the last chapters of the legend, those which tell of
the death, the stigmata, and the translation of the remains.[42] It was, then, made at a time
when the suppressed portion had not been replaced by a short summary of the other legends.

From all this two conclusions emerge for the critics: 1. This final summary has not the same
authority as the rest of the work, since the time when it was added is unknown. 2. Fragments
of a legend by Brother Leo or by the Three Companions scattered through later compilations
may be perfectly authentic.

In its present condition this legend of the Three Companions is the finest piece of Franciscan
literature, and one of the most delightful productions of the Middle Ages. There is something
indescribably sweet, confiding, chaste, in these pages, an energy of virile youth which the
Fioretti suggest but never attain to. At more than six hundred years of distance the purest
dream that ever thrilled the Christian Church seems to live again.

These friars of Greccio, who, scattered over the mountain, under the shade of the olive-trees,
passed their days in singing the Hymn of the Sun, are the true models of the primitive Umbrian
Masters. They are all alike; they are awkwardly posed; everything in and around them sins against
the most elementary rules of art, and yet their memory pursues you, and when you have long
forgotten the works of impeccable modern artists you recall without effort these creations
of those unknown painters; for love calls for love, and these vapid personages have very true
and pure hearts, a more than human love shines forth from their whole being, they speak to
you and make you better.

Such is this book, the first utterance of the Spiritual Franciscans, in which we already see
the coming to life of some of those bold doctrines that not only divided the Franciscan family
into two hostile branches, but which were to bring some of their defenders to the heretic's
stake.[43]

V. FRAGMENTS OF THE SUPPRESSED PART OF THE LEGEND OF THE THREE COMPANIONS

We may now take a step forward and try to group the fragments of the Legend of the Three Companions,
or of Brother Leo, which are to be found in later writings.

We must here be more than ever on our guard against absolute theories; one of the most fruitful
principles of historic criticism is to prefer contemporary documents, or at least those which
are nearest them; but even with these it is necessary to use a little discretion.

It seems impossible to attack the reasoning of the Bollandists, who refuse to know anything
of legends written after that of St. Bonaventura (1260), under pretext that, coming after several
other authorized biographies, he was better situated than anyone for getting information and
completing the work of his predecessors.[44] In reality this is absurd, for it assumes that
Bonaventura undertook to write as a historian. This is to forget that he wrote not only for
the purpose of edification, but also as minister-general of the Minor Brothers. From this fact
his first duty was to keep silent on many facts, and those not the least interesting. What
shall we say of a biography where Francis's Will is not even mentioned?

It is easy to turn away from a writing of the fourteenth century, on the ground that the author
did not see what was going on a hundred years before; still we must not forget that many books
of the end of the Middle Ages resemble those old mansions at which four or five generators
have toiled. An inscription on their front often only shows the touch of the last restorer
or the last destroyer, and the names which are set forth with the greatest complacency are
not always those of the real workmen.

Such have been many Franciscan books; to attribute them to any one author would be impracticable;
very different hands have worked upon them, and such an amalgam has its own charm and interest.

Turning them over--I had almost said associating with them--we come to see clearly into this
tangled web, for every work of man bears the trace of the hand that made it: this trace may
perhaps be of an almost imperceptible delicacy; it exists none the less, ready to reveal itself
to practised eyes. What is more impersonal than the photograph of a landscape or of a painting,
and yet among several hundreds of proofs the amateur will go straight to the work of the operator
he prefers.

These reflections were suggested by the careful study of a curious book printed many times
since the sixteenth century, the Speculum Vitæ S. Francisci et sociorum ejus.[45] A complete
study of this work, its sources, its printed editions, the numerous differences in the manuscripts,
would by itself require a volume and an epitome of the history of the Order. I can give here
only a few notes, taking for base the oldest edition, that of 1504.

The confusion which reigns here is frightful. Incidents in the life of Francis and his companions
are brought together with no plan; several of them are repeated after the interval of a few
pages in a quite different manner;[46] certain chapters are so awkwardly introduced that the
compiler has forgotten to remove the number that they bore in the work from which he borrowed
them;[47] finally, to our great surprise, we find several Incipit.[48]

However, with a little perseverance we soon perceive a few openings in the labyrinth. In the
first place, here are several chapters of the legend of Bonaventura which seem to have been
put in the van as if to protect the rest of the book. If we abstract them and the whole series
of chapters from the Fioretti, we shall have diminished the work by nearly three-quarters.

If we take away two more chapters taken from St. Bernard of Clairvaux and those containing
Franciscan prayers, or various attestations concerning the indulgence of Portiuncula, we finally
arrive at a sort of residue, if the expression may be forgiven, of a remarkable homogeneity.

Here the style is very different from that in the surrounding pages, closely recalling that
of the Three Companions; a single thought inspires these pages, that the corner-stone of the
Order is the love of poverty.

Why should we not have here some fragments of the original legend of the Three Companions?
We find here nothing which does not fit in with what we know, nothing which suggests the embellishments
of a late tradition.

To confirm this hypothesis come different passages which we find cited by Ubertini di Casali
and by Angelo Clareno as being by Brother Leo, and an attentive comparison of the text shows
that these authors can neither have drawn them from the Speculum nor the Speculum from them.

There is, besides, one phrase which, apart from the inspiration and style, will suffice at
the first glance to mark the common origin of most of these pieces.[49] Nos qui cum ipso fuimus.
"We who have been with him." These words, which recur in almost every incident,[49] are in
many cases only a grateful tribute to their spiritual father, but sometimes, too, they have
a touch of bitterness. These hermits of Greccio suddenly recall to mind their rights. Are we
not the only, the true interpreters of the Saint's instructions--we who lived continually with
him; we who, hour after hour, have meditated upon his words, his sighs, and his hymns?

We can understand that such pretensions were not to the taste of the Common Observance, and
that Crescentius, with an incontestable authority, has suppressed nearly all this legend.[51]

As for the fragments that have been preserved to us, though they furnish many details about
the last years of St. Francis's life, they still are not those whose loss is so much to be
regretted. The authors who reproduce them were defending a cause. We owe them little more than
the incidents which in one way or another concern the question of poverty. They had nothing
to do with the other accounts, as they were not writing a biography. But even within these
narrow limits these fragments are in the first order of importance; and I have not hesitated
to use them largely. It is needless to say that while ascribing their origin to the Three Companions,
and in particular to Brother Leo, we must not suppose that we have the very letter in the texts
which have come down to us. The pieces given by Ubertini di Casali and Angelo Clareno are actual
citations, and deserve full confidence as such. As for those which are preserved to us in the
Speculum, they may often have been abridged, explanatory notes may have slipped into the text,
but nowhere do we find interpolations in the bad sense of the word.[52]

Finally, if we compare the fragments with the corresponding accounts in the Second Life of
Celano, we see that the latter has often borrowed verbatim from Brother Leo, but generally
he has considerably abridged the passages, adding reflections here and there, especially retouching
the style to make it more elegant.

Such a comparison soon proves that Brother Leo's narratives are the original and that it is
impossible to see in them a later amplification of those of Thomas of Celano, as we might at
first be tempted to think them.[53]

VI. SECOND LIFE BY THOMAS OF CELANO[54]

First Part

In consequence of the decision of the chapter of 1244 search was begun in all quarters for
memorials of the early times of the Order. In view of the ardor of this inquiry, in which zeal
for the glory of the Franciscan institute certainly cast the interests of history into the
background, the minister-general, Crescentius, was obliged to take certain precautions.

Many of the pieces that he received were doing double duty; others might contradict one another;
many of them, under color of telling the life of the Saint, had no other object than to oppose
the present to the past.

It soon became imperative to constitute a sort of commission charged to study and coördinate
all this matter.[55] What more natural than to put Thomas of Celano at its head? Ever since
the approbation of the first legend by Gregory IX. he had appeared to be in a sense the official
historiographer of the Order.[56]

This view accords perfectly with the contents of the seventeen chapters which contain the first
part of the second legend. It offers itself at the outset as a compilation. Celano is surrounded
with companions who help him.[57] A more attentive examination shows that its principal source
is the Legend of the Three Companions, which the compilers worked over, sometimes filling out
certain details, more often making large excisions.

Everything that does not concern St. Francis is ruthlessly proscribed; we feel the well-defined
purpose to leave in the background the disciples who so complacently placed themselves in the
foreground.[58]

The work of the Three Companions had been finished August 11, 1246. On July 13, 1247, the chapter
of Lyons put an end to the powers of Crescentius. It is, therefore, between these two dates
that we must place the composition of the first part of Thomas of Celano's Second Life.[59]

VII. SECOND LIFE BY THOMAS OF CELANO[59]

Second Part

The election of Giovanni di Parma (1247-1257) as successor of Crescentius was a victory for
the Zealots. This man, in whose work-table the birds came to make their nests,[61] was to astonish
the world by his virtues. No one saw more deeply into St. Francis's heart, no one was more
worthy to take up and continue his work.

He soon asked Celano to resume his work.[62] The latter was perhaps alone at first, but little
by little a group of collaborators formed itself anew about him.[63] Thenceforth nothing prevented
his doing with that portion of the work of the Three Companions which Crescentius had suppressed
what he had already done with the part he had approved.

The Legend of Brother Leo has thus come down to us, entirely worked over by Thomas of Celano,
abridged and with all its freshness gone, but still of capital importance in the absence of
the major part of the original.

The events of which we possess two accounts permit us to measure the extent of our loss. We
find, in fact, in Celano's compilation all that we expected to find in the Three Companions:
the incidents belong especially to the last two years of Francis's life, and the scene of many
of them is either Greccio or one of the hermitages of the vale of Rieti;[64] according to tradition,
Brother Leo was the hero of a great number of the incidents here related[65] and all the citations
that Ubertini di Casali makes from Brother Leo's book find their correspondents here.[66]

This second part of the Second Life perfectly reflects the new circumstances to which it owes
its existence. The question of Poverty dominates everything;[67] the struggle between the two
parties in the Order reveals itself on every page; the collaborators are determined that each
event narrated shall be an indirect lesson to the Liberals, to whom they oppose the Spirituals;
the popes had commented on the Rule in the large sense; they, on their side, undertook to comment
on it in a sense at once literal and spiritual, by the actions and words of its author himself.

History has hardly any part here except as the vehicle of a thesis, a fact which diminishes
nothing of the historic value of the information given in the course of these pages. But while
in Celano's First Life and in the Legend of the Three Companions the facts succeed one another
organically, here they are placed side by side. Therefore when we come to read this work we
are sensible of a fall; even from the literary point of view the inferiority makes itself cruelly
felt. Instead of a poem we have before us a catalogue, very cleverly made, it is true, but
with no power to move us.

VIII. NOTES ON A FEW SECONDARY DOCUMENTS

a. Celano's Life of St. Francis for Use in the Choir.

Thomas of Celano made also a short legend for use in the choir. It is divided into nine lessons
and served for the Franciscan breviaries up to the time when St. Bonaventura made his Legenda
Minor.

That of Celano may be found in part (the first three lessons) in the Assisi MS. 338, fol. 52a-53b;
it is preceded by a letter of envoy: "Rogasti me frater Benedicte, ut de legenda B. P. N. F.
quædam exciperem et in novem lectionum seriem ordinarem ... etc. B. Franciscus de civitate
Assisii ortus a puerilibus annis nutritus extitit insolenter."

This work has no historic importance.

b. Life of St. Francis in Verse.

In the list of biographers has sometimes been counted a poem in hexameter verse[68] the text
of which was edited in 1882 by the lamented Cristofani.[69]

This work does not furnish a single new historic note. It is the Life by Celano in verse and
nothing more; the author's desire was to figure as a poet. It is superfluous, therefore, to
concern ourselves with it.[69]

c. Biography of St. Francis by Giovanni di Ceperano.

One of the biographies which disappeared, no doubt in consequence of the decision of the chapter
of 1266,[71] is that of Giovanni di Ceperano. The resemblance of his name to that of Thomas
of Celano has occasioned much confusion.[72] The most precious information which we have respecting
him is given by Bernard of Besse in the opening of his De laudibus St. Francisci: "Plenam virtutibus
B. Francisci vitam scripsit in Italia exquisitæ vir eloquentiæ fr. Thomas jubente Domino Gregorio
papa IX. et eam quæ incipit: Quasi stella matutina vir venerabilis Dominus et fertur Joannes,
Apostolicæ sedis notarius."[73]

In the face of so precise a text all doubt as to the existence of the work of Giovanni di Ceperano
is impossible. The Reverend Father Denifle has been able to throw new light upon this question.
In a manuscript containing the liturgy of the Brothers Minor and finished in 1256 he found
the nine lessons for the festival of St. Francis preceded by the title: Ex gestis ejus abbreviatis
quæ sic incipiunt: Quasi stella (Zeitschrift für kath. Theol., vii., p. 710. Cf. Archiv., i.,
p. 148). This summary of Ceperano's work gives, as we should expect, no new information; but
perhaps we need not despair of finding the very work of this author.

d. Life of St. Francis by Brother Julian.

It was doubtless about 1230 that Brother Julian, the Teuton, who had been chapel-master at
the court of the King of France, was commissioned to put the finishing touches to the Office
of St. Francis.[74] Evidently such a work would contain nothing original, and its loss is little
felt.

IX. LEGEND OF ST. BONAVENTURA

Under the generalate of Giovanni di Parma (1247-1257) the Franciscan parties underwent modifications,
in consequence of which their opposition became still more striking than before.

The Zelanti, with the minister-general at their head, enthusiastically adopted the views of
Gioacchino di Fiore. The predictions of the Calabrian abbot corresponded too well with their
inmost convictions for any other course to be possible: they seemed to see Francis, as a new
Christ, inaugurating the third era of the world.

For a few years these dreams moved all Europe; the faith of the Joachimites was so ardent that
it made its way by its own force; sceptics like Salimbeni told themselves that on the whole
it was surely wiser not to be taken unawares by the great catastrophe of 1260, and hastened
in crowds to the cell of Hyères to be initiated by Hugues de Digne in the mysteries of the
new times: as to the people, they waited, trembling, divided between hope and terror. Nevertheless
their adversaries did not consider themselves beaten, and the Liberal party still remained
the most numerous. Of an angelic purity, Giovanni di Parma believed in the omnipotence of example:
events showed how mistaken he was; at the close of his term of office scandals were not less
flagrant than ten years earlier.[75]

Between these two extreme parties, against which he was to proceed with equal rigor, stood
that of the Moderates, to which belonged St. Bonaventura.[76]

A mystic, but of a formal and orthodox mysticism, he saw the revolution toward which the Church
was hastening if the party of the eternal Gospel was to triumph; its victory would not be that
of this or that heresy in detail, it would be, with brief delay, the ruin of the entire ecclesiastical
edifice; he was too perspicacious not to see that in the last analysis the struggle then going
on was that of the individual conscience against authority. This explains, and up to a certain
point gains him pardon for, his severities against his opponents; he was supported by the court
of Rome and by all those who desired to make the Order a school at once of piety and of learning.

No sooner was he elected general than, with a purpose that never knew hesitation, and a will
whose firmness made itself everywhere felt, he took his steps to forward this double aim. On
the very morrow of his nomination he sketched the programme of reforms against the Liberal
party, and at the same time secured the summons of the Joachimite Brothers before an ecclesiastical
tribunal at Città-della-Pieve. This tribunal condemned them to perpetual imprisonment, and
it needed the personal intervention of Cardinal Ottobonus, the future Adrian V., for Giovanni
di Parma to be left free to retire to the Convent of Greccio.

The first chapter held under the presidence of Bonaventura, in the extended decisions of which
we find everywhere tokens of his influence, assembled at Narbonne in 1260. He was then commissioned
to compose a new life of St. Francis.[77]

We easily understand the anxieties to which this decision of the Brothers was an answer. The
number of legends had greatly increased, for besides those which we have first studied or noted
there were others in existence which have completely disappeared, and it had become equally
difficult for the Brothers who went forth on missions either to make a choice between them
or to carry them all.

The course of the new historian was therefore clearly marked out: he must do the work of compiler
and peacemaker. He failed in neither. His book is a true sheaf, or rather it is a millstone
under which the indefatigable author has pressed, somewhat at hazard, the sheaves of his predecessors.
Most of the time he inserts them just as they are, confining himself to the work of harvesting
them and weeding out the tares.

Therefore, when we reach the end of this voluminous work we have a very vague impression of
St. Francis. We see that he was a saint, a very great saint, since he performed an innumerable
quantity of miracles, great and small; but we feel very much as if we had been going through
a shop of objects of piety. All these statues, whether they are called St. Anthony the Abbot,
St. Dominic, St. Theresa, or St. Vincent de Paul, have the same expression of mincing humility,
of a somewhat shallow ecstasy. These are saints, if you please, miracle-workers; they are not
men; he who made them made them by rule, by process; he has put nothing of his heart in these
ever-bowed foreheads, these lips with their wan smile.

God forbid that I should say or think that St. Bonaventura was not worthy to write a life of
St. Francis, but the circumstances controlled his work, and it is no injustice to him to say
that it is fortunate for Francis, and especially for us, that we have another biography of
the Poverello than that of the Seraphic Doctor.

Three years after, in 1263, he brought his completed work to the chapter-general convoked under
his presidence at Pisa. It was there solemnly approved.[78]

It is impossible to say whether they thought that the presence of the new legend would suffice
to put the old ones out of mind, but it seems that at this time nothing was said about the latter.

It was not so at the following chapter. This one, held at Paris, came to a decision destined
to have disastrous results for the primitive Franciscan documents. This decree, emanating from
an assembly presided over by Bonaventura in person, is too important not to be quoted textually:
"Item, the Chapter-general ordains on obedience that all the legends of the Blessed Francis
formerly made shall be destroyed. The Brothers who shall find any without the Order must try
to make away with them since the legend made by the General is compiled from accounts of three
who almost always accompanied the Blessed Francis; all that they could certainly know and all
that is proven has been carefully inserted therein."[79] It would have been difficult to be
more precise. We see the perseverance with which Bonaventura carried on his struggle against
the extreme parties. This decree explains the almost complete disappearance of the manuscripts
of Celano and the Three Companions, since in certain collections even those of Bonaventura's
legend are hardly to be found.

As we have seen, Bonaventura aimed to write a sort of official or canonical biography; he succeeded
only too well. Most of the accounts that we already know have gone into his collection, but
not without at times suffering profound mutilations. We are not surprised to find him passing
over Francis's youth with more discretion than Celano in the First Life, but we regret to find
him ornamenting and materializing some of the loveliest incidents of the earlier legends.

It is not enough for him that Francis hears the crucifix of St. Daraian speak; he pauses to
lay stress on the assertion that he heard it corporeis auribus and that no one was in the chapel
at that moment! Brother Monaldo at the chapter of Arles sees St. Francis appear corporeis oculis.
He often abridges his predecessors, but this is not his invariable rule. When he reaches the
account of the stigmata he devotes long pages to it,[79] relates a sort of consultation held
by St. Francis as to whether he could conceal them, and adds several miracles due to these
sacred wounds; further on he returns to the subject to show a certain Girolamo, Knight of Assisi,
desiring to touch with his hands the miraculous nails.[81] On the other hand, he uses a significant
discretion wherever the companions of the Saint are in question. He names only three of the
first eleven disciples,[82] and no more mentions Brothers Leo, Angelo, Rufino, Masseo, than
their adversary, Brother Elias.

As to the incidents which we find for the first time in this collection, they hardly make us
regret the unknown sources which must have been at the service of the famous Doctor; it would
appear that the healing of Morico, restored to health by a few pellets of bread soaked in the
oil of the lamp which burned before the altar of the Virgin,[83] has little more importance
for the life of St. Francis than the story of the sheep given to Giacomina di Settesoli which
awakened its mistress to summon her to go to mass.[84] What shall we think of that other sheep,
of Portiuncula, which hastened to the choir whenever it heard the psalmody of the friars, and
kneeled devoutly for the elevation of the Holy Sacrament?[85]

All these incidents, the list of which might be enlarged,[86] betrays the working-over of the
legend. St. Francis becomes a great thaumaturgist, but his physiognomy loses its originality.

The greatest fault of this work is, in fact, the vagueness of the figure of the Saint. While
in Celano there are the large lines of a soul-history, a sketch of the affecting drama of a
man who attains to the conquest of himself, with Bonaventura all this interior action disappears
before divine interventions; his heart is, so to speak, the geometrical locality of a certain
number of visitants; he is a passive instrument in the hands of God, and we really cannot see
why he should have been chosen rather than another.

And yet Bonaventura was an Italian; he had seen Umbria; he must have knelt and celebrated the
sacred mysteries in Portiuncula, that cradle of the noblest of religious reformations; he had
conversed with Brother Egidio, and must have heard from his lips an echo of the first Franciscan
fervor; but, alas! nothing of that rapture passed into his book, and if the truth must be told,
I find it quite inferior to much later documents, to the Fioretti, for example; for they understood,
at least in part, the soul of Francis; they felt the throbbing of that heart, with all its
sensitiveness, admiration, indulgence, love, independence, and absence of carefulness.

X. DE LAUDIBUS OF BERNARD OF BESSE[87]

Bonaventura's work did not discourage the biographers. The historic value of their labor is
almost nothing, and we shall not even attempt to catalogue them.

Bernard of Besse, a native probably of the south of France[88] and secretary of Bonaventura,[89]
made a summary of the earlier legends. This work, which brings us no authentic historic indication,
is interesting only for the care with which the author has noted the places where repose the
Brothers who died in odor of sanctity, and relates a mass of visions all tending to prove the
excellence of the Order.[89]

Still the publication of this document will perform the valuable office of throwing a little
light upon the difficult question of the sources. Several passages of the De laudibus appear
again textually in the Speculum,[91] and as a single glance is enough to show that the Speculum
did not copy the De laudibus, it must be that Bernard of Besse had before him a copy, if not
of the Speculum at least of a document of the same kind.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] Bull Quo elongati of September 28, 1230. See p. 336.

   [2] It is needless to say that I have no desire to put myself in
       opposition to that principle, one of the most fruitful of
       criticism, but still it should not be employed alone.

   [3] The learned works that have appeared in Germany in late
       years err in the same way. They will be found cited in the body
       of the work.

   [4] Eccl., 13. Voluerunt ipsi, quos ad capitulam concesserat
       venire frater Helias; nam omnes concessit, etc. An. fr., t.
       i., p. 241. Cf. Mon. Germ. hist. Script., t., 28, p. 564.

   [5] The death of Francis occurred on October 3, 1226. On March
       29, 1228, Elias acquired the site for the basilica. The
       Instrumentum donationis is still preserved at Assisi: Piece
       No. 1 of the twelfth package of Instrumenta diversa pertinentia
       ad Sacrum Conventum. It has been published by Thode: Franz von
       Assisi, p. 359.

       On July 17th of the same year, the day after the canonization,
       Gregory IX. solemnly laid the first stone. Less than two years
       afterward the Lower church was finished, and on May 25, 1230,
       the body of the Saint was carried there. In 1236 the Upper
       church was finished. It was already decorated with a first
       series of frescos, and Giunta Pisano painted Elias, life size,
       kneeling at the foot of the crucifix over the entrance to the
       choir. In 1239 everything was finished, and the campanile
       received the famous bells whose chimes still delight all the
       valley of Umbria. Thus, then, three months and a half before the
       canonization, Elias received the site of the basilica. The act
       of canonization commenced at the end of May, 1228 (1 Cel., 123
       and 124. Cf. Potthast, 8194ff).

   [6] Spec., 167a. Cf. An. fr., ii., p. 45 and note.

   [7] The Bollandists followed the text (A. SS., Octobris, t. ii.,
       pp. 683-723) of a manuscript of the Cistercian abbey of Longpont
       in the diocese of Soissons. It has since been published in Rome
       in 1806, without the name of the editor (in reality by the
       Convent Father Rinaldi), under the title: Seraphici viri S.
       Francisci Assisiatis vitæ dual auctore B. Thoma de Celano,
       according to a manuscript (of Fallerone, in the March of Ancona)
       which was stolen in the vicinity of Terni by brigands from the
       Brother charged with bringing it back. The second text was
       reproduced at Rome in 1880 by Canon Amoni: Vita prima S.
       Francisci, auctore B. Thoma de Celano. Roma, tipografia della
       pace, 1880, in 8vo, 42 pp. The citations will follow the
       divisions made by the Bollandists, but in many important
       passages the Rinaldi-Amoni text gives better readings than that
       of the Bollandists. The latter has been here and there retouched
       and filled out. See, for example, 1 Cel., 24 and 31. As for the
       manuscripts, Father Denifle thinks that the oldest of those
       which are known is that at Barcelona: Archivo de la corona de
       Aragon, Ripoll, n. 41 (Archiv., t. i., p. 148). There is one
       in the National Library of Paris, Latin alcove, No. 3817, which
       includes a curious note: "Apud Perusium felix domnus papa
       Gregorius nonus gloriosi secundo pontificus sui anno, quinto
       kal. martii (February 25, 1229) legendam hanc recepit,
       confirmavit et censuit fore tenendam." Another manuscript,
       which merits attention, both because of its age, thirteenth
       century, and because of the correction in the text, and which
       appears to have escaped the researches of the students of the
       Franciscans, is the one owned by the École de Médicine at
       Montpellier, No. 30, in vellum folio: Passionale vetus ecclesiæ
       S. Benigni divionensis. The story of Celano occupies in it the
       fos. 257a-271b. The text ends abruptly in the middle of
       paragraph 112 with supiriis ostendebant. Except for this final
       break it is complete. Cf. Archives Pertz, t. vii., pp. 195 and
       196. Vide General catalogue of the manuscripts of the public
       libraries of the departments, t. i., p. 295.

   [8] Vide 1 Cel., Prol. Jubente domino et glorioso Papa
       Gregorio. Celano wrote it after the canonization (July 16,
       1228) and before February 25, 1229, for the date indicated above
       raises no difficulty.

   [9] 1 Cel., 56. Perhaps he was the son of that Thomas, Count of
       Celano, to whom Ryccardi di S. Germano so often made allusion in
       his chronicle: 1219-1223. See also two letters of Frederick II.
       to Honorius III., on April 24 and 25, 1223, published in
       Winckelmann: Acta imperii inedita, t. i., p. 232.

  [10] Giord., 19.

  [11] Giord., 30 and 31.

  [12] Giord., 59. Cf. Glassberger, ann. 1230. The question
       whether he is the author of the Dies iræ would be out of place
       here.

  [13] This is so true that the majority of historians have been
       brought to believe in two generalates of Elias, one in
       1227-1230, the other in 1236-1239. The letter Non ex odio of
       Frederick II. (1239) gives the same idea: Revera papa iste
       quemdam religiosum et timoratum fratrem Helyam, ministrum
       ordinis fratrum minorum ab ipso beato Francisco patre ordinis
       migrationis suæ tempore constitutum ... in odium nostrum ...
       deposuit. Huillard-Breholles: Hist. dipl. Fred. II., t. v.,
       p. 346.

  [14] He is named only once, 1 Cel., 48.

  [15] 1 Cel., 95, 98, 105, 109. The account of the Benediction is
       especially significant. Super quem inquit (Franciscus) tenes
       dexteram meam? Super fratrem Heliam, inquiunt. Et ego sic volo,
       sit.... 1 Cel., 108. Those last words obviously disclose the
       intention. Cf. 2 Cel., 3, 139.

  [16] 1 Cel., 102; cf. 91 and 109. Brother Leo is not even named
       in the whole work. Nor Angelo, Illuminato, Masseo either!

  [17] 1 Cel., Prol., 73-75; 99-101; 121-126. Next to St. Francis,
       Gregory IX. and Brother Elias (1 Cel., 69; 95; 98; 105; 108;
       109) are in the foreground.

  [18] 1 Cel., 18 and 19; 116 and 117.

  [19] Those which occurred during the absence of Francis
       (1220-1221). He overlooks the difficulties met at Rome in
       seeking the approbation of the first Rule; he mentions those
       connected neither with the second nor the third, and makes no
       allusion to the circumstances which provoked them. He recognized
       them, however, having lived in intimacy with Cæsar of Speyer,
       the collaborator of the second (1221).

  [20] For example, Francis's journey to Spain.

  [21] 1 Cel., 1, 88. Et sola quæ necessaria magis occurrunt ad
       præsens intendimus adnotare. It is to be observed that in the
       prologue he speaks in the singular.

  [22] In 1238 he had sent Elias to Cremona, charged with a
       mission for Frederick II. Salembeni, ann. 1229. See also the
       reception given by Gregory IX. to the appellants against the
       General. Giord., 63.

  [23] See the letter of Frederick II. to Elias upon the
       translation of St. Elizabeth, May, 1236. Winkelmann, Acta i.,
       p. 299. Cf. Huillard-Bréholles, Hist. dipl. Intr. p. cc.

  [24] The authorities for this story are: Catalogus ministrorum
       of Bernard of Besse, ap Ehrle, Zeitschrift, vol. 7 (1883),
       p. 339; Speculum, 207b, and especially 167a-170a; Eccl., 13;
       Giord., 61-63; Speculum, Morin., tract i., fo. 60b.

  [25] Asserabat etiam ipse prædictus frater Helyas ... papam ...
       fraudem facere de pecunia collecta ad succursum Terræ Sanctæ,
       scripta etiam ad beneplacitum suum in camera sua bullare clam et
       sine fratrum assensu et etiam cedulas vacuas, sed bullatas,
       multas nunciis suis traderet ... et alia multa enormia imposuit
       domino papæ ponens os suum in celo. Matth. Paris, Chron.
       Maj., ann. 1239, ap Mon. Ger. hist. Script., t. 28, p. 182.
       Cf. Ficker, n. 2685.

  [26] Vide Ryccardi di S. Germano, Chron., ap Mon. Ger. hist.
       Script., t. 19, p. 380, ann. 1239. The letter of Frederick
       complaining of the deposition of Elias (1239):
       Huillard-Bréholles, Hist. Dipl., v., pp. 346-349. Cf. the
       Bull, Attendite ad petram, at the end of February, 1240,
       ibid., pp. 777-779; Potthast, 10849.

  [27] He was without doubt one of the bitterest adversaries of
       the emperor. His village had been burnt in 1224, by order of
       Frederick II., and the inhabitants transported to Sicily,
       afterward to Malta. Ryccardi di S. Germano, loc. cit., ann.
       1223 and 1224.

  [28] Vide the prologue to 2 Cel. and to the 3 Soc. Cf.
       Glassberger, ann. 1244, An. fr., ii., p. 68. Speculum,
       Morin, tract. i., 61b.

  [29] Catalogus ministrorum, edited by Ehrle: Zeitschrift, t.
       7 (1883). no. 5. Cf. Spec., 208a. Mark of Lisbon speaks of it
       a little more at length, but he gives the honor of it to
       Giovanni of Parma, ed. Diola, t. ii., p. 38. On the other hand,
       in manuscript 691 of the archives of the Sacro-Convento at
       Assisi (a catalogue of the library of the convent made in 1381)
       is found, fo. 45a, a note of that work: "Dyalogus sanctorum
       fratrum cum postibus cujus principium est: Venerabilia gesta
       patrum dignosque memoria, finis vero; non indigne feram me
       quoque reperisse consortem. In quo libro omnes quaterni sunt
       xiii."

  [30] The text was published for the first time by the
       Bollandists (A. SS., Octobris, t. ii., pp. 723-742), after a
       manuscript of the convent of the Brothers Minor of Louvain. It
       is from this edition that we make our citations. The editions
       published in Italy in the course of this century, cannot be
       found, except the last, due to Abbé Amoni. This one,
       unfortunately, is too faulty to serve as the basis of a
       scientific study. It appeared in Rome in 1880 (8vo, pp. 184)
       under the title: Legenda S. Francisci Assisiensis quæ dicitur
       Legenda trium sociorum ex cod. membr. Biblioth. Vatic. num.
       7339.

  [31] 2 Cel., 2, 5; 3, 7; 1 Cel., 60; Bon., 113; 1 Cel., 84;
       Bon., 149; 2 Cel., 2, 14; 3, 10.

  [32] Giovanni di Parma retired thither in 1276 and lived there
       almost entirely until his death (1288). Tribul., Archiv.,
       vol. ii. (1886), p. 286.

  [33] 3 Soc., 25-67.

  [34] 3 Soc., 68-73.

  [35] The minister-general Crescentius of Jesi was an avowed
       adversary of the Zealots of the Rule. The contrary idea has been
       held by M. Müller (Anfänge, p. 180); but that learned scholar
       is not, it appears, acquainted with the recitals of the
       Chronicle of the Tribulations, which leave not a single doubt as
       to the persecutions which he directed against the Zealots
       (Archiv., t. ii., pp. 257-260). Anyone who attempts to dispute
       the historical worth of this proof will find a confirmation in
       the bulls of August 5, 1244, and of February 7, 1246 (Potthast,
       11450 and 12007). It was Crescentius, also, who obtained a bull
       stating that the Basilica of Assisi was Caput et Mater
       ordinis, while for the Zealots this rank pertained to the
       Portiuncula (1 Cel., 106; 3 Soc., 56; Bon., 23; 2 Cel., 1, 12;
       Conform., 217 ff). (See also on Crescentius, Glassberger, ann.
       1244, An. fr., p. 69; Sbaralea, Bull. fr., i., p. 502 ff;
       Conform., 121b. 1.) M. Müller has been led into error through
       a blunder of Eccleston, 9 (An. fr., i., p. 235). It is evident
       that the chapter of Genoa (1244) could not have pronounced
       against the Declaratio Regulæ published November 14, 1245. On
       the contrary, it is Crescentius who called forth this
       Declaratio, against which, not without regret, the Zealots
       found a majority of the chapter of Metz (1249) presided over by
       Giovanni of Parma, a decided enemy of any Declaratio
       (Archiv., ii., p. 276). This view is found to be confirmed by
       a passage of the Speculum Morin (Rouen, 1509), f^o 62a: In hoc
       capitulo (Narbonnæ) fuit ordinatum quod declaratio D.
       Innocentii, p. iv., maneat suspensa sicut in Capitulo METENSI.
       Et præceptum est omnibus ne quis utatur ea in iis in quibus
       expositioni D. Gregorii IX. contradicit.

  [36] Published with all necessary scientific apparatus by F.
       Ehrle, S. J., in his studies Zur Vorgeschichte des Concils von
       Vienne. Archiv., ii., pp. 353-416; iii., pp. 1-195.

  [37] See, for example, Archiv., iii., p. 53 ff. Cf. 76.
       Adduxi verba et facta b. Francisci sicut est aliquando in
       legenda et sicut a sociis sancti patris audivi et in cedulis
       sanctæ memoriæ fratris Leonis legi manu sua conscriptis, sicut
       ab ore beati Francisci audivit. Ib., p. 85.

  [38] Hæc omnia patent per sua [B. Francisci] verba expressa per
       sanctum fratrem virum Leonem ejus socium tam de mandato sancti
       patris quam etiam de devotione prædicti fratris fuerunt
       solemniter conscripta, in libro qui habetur in armario fratrum
       de Assisio et in rotulis ejus, quos apud me habeo, manu ejusdem
       fratris Leonis conscriptis. Archiv., iii., p. 168. Cf. p. 178.

  [39] 3 Soc., Prol. Non contenti narrare solum miracula ...
       conversationis insignia et pii beneplaciti voluntatem.

  [40] Leggenda di S. Francesco, tipografia Morici et Badaloni,
       Recanati, 1856, 1 vol., 8vo.

  [41] See Father Stanislaus's preface.

  [42] 3 Soc., 68-73.

  [43] The book lacks little of representing St. Francis as taking
       up the work of Jesus, interrupted (by the fault of the secular
       clergy) since the time of the apostles. The viri evangelici
       consider the members of the clergy filios extraneos. 3 Soc.,
       48 and 51. Cf. 3 Soc., 48. Inveni virum ... per quem, credo
       Dominus velit in toto mundo fedem sanctæ Ecclesiæ reformare.
       Cf. 2 Cel., 3, 141. Videbatur revera fratri et omnium
       comitatium turbæ quod Christi et b. Francisci una persona
       foret.

  [44] A. SS. p. 552.

  [45] Venetiis, expensis domini Jordani de Dinslaken per Simonem
       de Luere, 30 januarii, 1504. Impressum Metis per Jasparem
       Hochffeder, Anno Domini 1509. These two editions are identical,
       small 12mos, of 240 folios badly numbered. Edited under the same
       title by Spoelberch, Antwerp, 1620, 2 tomes in one volume, 8vo,
       208 and 192 pages, with a mass of alterations. The most
       important manuscript resembles that of the Vatican 4354. There
       are two at the Mazarin Library, 904 and 1350, dated 1459 and
       1460, one at Berlin (MS. theol. lat., 4to, no. 196 sæc. 14).
       Vide Ehrle, Zeitschrift. t. vii. (1883), p. 392f; Analecta
       fr., t. i., p. xi.; Miscellanea, 1888, pp. 119. 164. Cf. A.
       SS., pp. 550-552.

