For the third day in succession Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR essayed to move the adjournment in order
to call attention to what he called "the policy of frightfulness" in Ireland. This time the
SPEAKER accepted the motion, but the ensuing debate was of the usual inconclusive kind. Mr.
DEVLIN gave another exhibition of stage-fury. He objected to the word "reprisals" being used
for the "infamies" going on in Ireland, declared that the Government were responsible for all
the murders and prophesied that the present CHIEF SECRETARY, "with all his outward appearance
of great masculinity," would fail, as BALFOUR and CROMWELL--the House enjoyed this concatenation--had
failed before him.

In points of detail Sir HAMAR GREENWOOD conceded a little more to his critics than on some
former occasions. He undertook to consider whether the Government should compensate the owners
of creameries or other property wrongfully destroyed; and he admitted that some constables
had exceeded their duty, nine of them being actually under arrest on various charges. But on
the main point he was adamant. Quoting the remark of a police-sergeant at Tralee, "They have
declared war upon us and I suppose war it must be," the CHIEF SECRETARY said in his most emphatic
tones, "War it will be until assassination stops."

       *       *       *       *       *

STUTTFIELD AND THE REDS.

Stuttfield was nothing of a NERO. He would never have fiddled while Rome burned. He would have
been more likely to imagine that Rome was burning when there was really nothing more going
on than a bonfire. He is one more example of the pernicious influence of sensational literature
upon a nervous temperament.

It all began through Stuttfield finding a copy of The Daily Blast in a railway carriage last
June. This journal is printed on white paper, but the tendency of its contents is ruddy--that
is to say, it has "Red" leanings. It was a revelation to Stuttfield.

"Are people allowed to say such things?" he asked me in horror.

"My dear fellow, no one takes it seriously," I said. "Don't you worry."

But Stuttfield did worry. The Daily Blast had the same effect upon him as a snake has upon
a rabbit; it terrified him, yet he could not run away from it. In fact he became a regular
subscriber and continued so despite some rumours that it was supported financially by the Rougetanians--rumours
which required, and received, a great deal of explanation.

Then, through the offices of his man-servant, he obtained a copy of The Volcano.

The Volcano appears to be in advance of The Daily Blast in its ideals, and immensely so in
their expression. But here again I assured Stuttfield that no one took them seriously. "I don't
suppose they take themselves seriously," I assured him. "They want to sell The Volcano, that's
all."

"Yes," said Stuttfield, "but they do sell it, and people read it."

"I expect the circulation's about two thousand a week," I said consolingly. But Stuttfield,
as I could see, was not consoled.

I met him at intervals after that, and on each occasion he seemed to be more obsessed with
the notion that the "Reds" would overwhelm us all shortly.

"Russia is Red," he whispered; he always whispers now for fear of being overheard by a Red
agent, though there was not very much risk of that in St. James's Street. "And what about India
and China?"

"Red, black and yellow--the Zingari colours," I said ribaldly, and Stuttfield left me in disgust.

Then I heard from a friend that he had sold his cottage at Redhill. This was a bad sign, and
I went to see him. I found him much worse.

"You've taken an overdose of The Volcano," I said.

He seized my arm with trembling fingers.

"The Red Revolution is upon us," he hissed.

I laughed. "Don't you worry about the Red Revolution. You come out to lunch."

He would hardly be persuaded. Clubs and restaurants would be attacked first, he thought. If
we lunched together it had better be in an eating-house in Bermondsey. "I have a disguise,"
he said, and disclosed a complete proletarian outfit.

"Well, I haven't," I said. "Not that these clothes of mine will lead anyone to mistake me for
a capitalist. But, so far as lunch goes, hadn't we better be killed by a Red bomb at the Fitz
than by tripe in Bermondsey?"

Stuttfield could not but admit the sense of this, so we started out.

It is widely recognised that Flag Days, however admirable their objects, have been a little
overdone. But it was sheer bad luck that brought Stuttfield face to face with a flag-seller
just as we were entering the Fitz. She came at him with a determined aspect and began "The
Red Cr----"

It was enough. Poor Stuttfield was across the pavement and into a taxi before I could stop
him. There was nothing for me to do but follow him.

"Where are we going?" I asked.

"Waterloo," he answered through blanched lips. I could get nothing more from him.

At Waterloo he sprang out, leaving me to pay the cab, and disappeared into the station. I followed
as quickly as I could, but he was nowhere to be seen.

"Where would he go to hide from the Reds?" I asked myself. Suddenly I had an idea about his
destination.

I was right. In the foremost carriage I found him. I tried to persuade him to come out, but
he clung to the rack. So I left him. I have not seen him since.

I hope he feels safe in the Isle of Wight.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "You can burn your slack cook in oven in our ----
    Grate."--Advt. in Daily Paper.

But now that the coal strike is over we shall try to put up with our cook a little longer.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WALLASEY'S LOW FIGURE.

    POPULATION JUMP--FROM 21,192 TO 99,493 IN 28 DAYS."

    Liverpool Paper.

We do not know why this should be described as a "low figure." To us it seems remarkably good
going.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The weather forecast for Sheffield and district for the next
    twenty-four years is as follows:--

    Wind southerly, light, freshening later; cloudy or overcast;
    probably some rain later; visibility indifferent to fair;
    mild."

    Yorkshire Paper.

It is hoped however that some improvement may be shown in 1945.

       *       *       *       *       *

Puck's Record Eclipsed.

    "For five minutes I was in the Mercantile Marine and the Navy.
    During these five minutes I made a complete circuit of the
    globe."--Letter in Welsh Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The pruning-fork is being applied in order to bring the
    staff within the capacity of the accommodation."--Provincial
    Paper.

After which harmony will be restored by means of the tuning-knife.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It did one good, on entering the Queen's Hall last night, to
    find every seat in the building, even to those at the back
    of the rostrum, occupied by the London Symphony
    Orchestra."--Evening Paper.

An audience is often so distracting.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE MOTHER-IN-LAW MYSTERY.=

In a provincial paper I find the following passage:--

    "Counsel stated that the prisoner's mother was in court. Later
    he informed the Judge that he had made a mistake; it was the
    prisoner's mother-in-law. A general laugh throughout the court
    followed this 'correction.'"

We have here in a nutshell the case for traditional communal humour, and once again we are
set to wondering why--except possibly to allay some whimsical twinges of self-respect--dramatists
ever try to invent new jokes at all. Even more are we set to wondering why this particular
joke never fails.

In the present case the injustice done to an honourable class of women--that is to say, those
who provide lovers with their loves (for that is how these relationships begin)--was the greater
because no doubt, when the laughter had subsided a little, every eye sought for the lady in
question. Normally we have not the opportunity of visualising the butt at all. It is enough
that she should be mentioned. Nor would any grotesque details in her costume or physiognomy
make the joke appreciably better. It requires no such assistance; it is rich enough without
them; to possess a married daughter is all that is necessary to cause gusts of joyful mirth.

That it is not the lady herself who is funny could--no matter how Gothic her figure--be proved
in a moment by placing her in the witness-box and asking her to state her relationship to the
prisoner's wife. She would say, "I am her mother," and nothing would happen. But if the question
were, "What is your relationship to the prisoner?" and she replied, "I am his mother-in-law,"
sides would split. Similarly one can imagine that if the husband's reply to the counsel's question,
"Who was with you?" had been, "My wife was with me," there would have been no risible reaction
whatever; but if the reply had been, "My wife's mother was with me," the place would have been
convulsed. Of course the true artist in effect would never say, "My wife's mother," but "My
mother-in-law." It is the "in-law" that is so exquisitely amusing and irresistible.

But both would be the same person: the gravest thing on earth, it might be, in every other
respect--even sad and dignified--but ludicrous because her daughter happened to have found
a husband.

To inquire why the bare mention of the mother of a man's wife should excite merriment is to
find oneself instantly deep in sociology--and in some of its seamiest strata too. While exploring
them one would make the odd discovery that, whereas the humour that surrounds and saturates
the idea of a wife possessing a maternal relative is inexhaustible, there is nothing laughable
about the mother of a husband. A wife can talk of her husband's mother all day and never have
the reputation of a wit, whereas her husband has but to mention her mother and he is the rival
of the Robeys.

As for fathers-in-law, low comedians would starve if they had to depend on the help that fathers-in-law
give them. Fathers-in-law do not exist. Nor do brothers-in-law or sisters-in-law, except as
facts; but the joke is that they can be far more interfering (interference being at the root
of the matter, I take it) than anyone in the world. It is the brother-in-law who knows of absolutely
safe gilt-edged investments (which rarely succeed), and has to be helped while waiting for
something to turn up; it is the sister-in-law who is so firmly convinced that dear Clara (her
brother's wife) is spoiling the children. But both escape; while many really charming old ladies,
to whom their sons-in-law are devoted, continue to be riddled by the world's satirical bullets.

What is to be done about it? Nothing. Only the destruction of the institution of marriage could
affect it.

E. V. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

=MY APOLOGIA.=

(Lines accidentally omitted from a notorious volume of Memoirs.)

  If life is dull and day by day
    I see that wittier, wiser
  England where I was wont to play
  (Being as bold as I was gay)
  Keep passing rapidly away
    All through the German KAISER;

  If "Souls" are not the things they were,
    If caste declines and Vandals
  Go practically everywhere
  From Cavendish to Berkeley Square,
  And dowdy frumps without the "air"
    Monopolise the scandals;

  There is but one thing left to do--
    And what's a sporting flutter worth
  Unless one takes a risk or two?--
  "I'll shock the world," I thought, "anew,"
  And (ultimately) did so through
    The firm of THORNTON BUTTERWORTH.

  Two worlds indeed. The mighty West
    Poured out her untold money
  To gaze upon my palimpsest;
  I think that Codex A was best,
  But parts of this have been suppressed;
    Publishers are so funny.

  And now my fame through London rings
    In well-bred speech and argot;
  At mild suburban tea-makings
  The postman knocks, and poor dear things
  Tear wildly at the parcel-strings
    When MUDIE gives them MARGOT.

  Pressmen have tried to make a lot
    Out of a certain instance
  Of mild misstatement as to what
  Happened in 1914. Rot!
  All I can say is that my plot
    Has much more verve than WINSTON'S.

  Well, never mind. The work is done;
    People who do not need it--
  The wit, the fire, the force, the fun,
  The pathos--let them simply shun
  This frightful book, shout "Shame!" and run;
    Nobody's forced to read it.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=NOMEN, OMEN.=

(By our Medical Correspondent.)

No one who is interested in the possibilities of psycho-therapy can view without serious misgiving
recent tendencies in artistic nomenclature. Some of us are old enough to remember when the
trend was in the direction of Italianisation; when FOLEY became SIGNOR FOLI; CAMPBELL, CAMPOBELLO,
and an American from Brooklyn was transformed into BROCCOLINI. The vogue of alien aliases has
passed, but it may return, and it is to guard against the formidable and deleterious results
of its recrudescence that the following suggestions, are propounded, not merely in the interests
of Gongorism or of an intensive cultivation of syncretic euphuism, but in accordance with the
most approved conclusions of psycho-analytic research.

It may be urged--and the objection is natural--that there can be little danger of a relapse
in view of the heroic and patriotic adhesion of some of our most distinguished artists to their
homely patronymics. No doubt the noble example of CLARA BUTT and CARRIE TUBB is fortifying
and reassuring, and there are also clamant proofs that denationalisation is no passport to
eminence. But it would be foolish to overlook the existence of powerful influences operating
in an antipodal direction. I confess to a feeling approaching to dismay when I study the advertisement
columns of the daily papers and note the recurrence, in the announcements of impending concerts,
of names of a strangely outlandish and exotic form. In a single issue I have encountered KRISH,
ARRAU, KOUNS and DINH GILLY. The Christian names of some of these eminent performers are equally
momentous and perturbing, e.g., JASCHA, KOFZA and UTT.

My grounds for perturbation are not imaginary or based on the hallucinations of a hypersensitive
mind. They are prompted and justified by the notorious facts, established by the leading psycho-analysts,
that, just as mellifluous and melodious names exercise a mollifying influence on the activities
of the sub-conscious self, so the possession or choice of strange or ferocious appellations
incites the bearer, if I may be permitted to use so commonplace a term, to live up to his label.

It is therefore with all the force at my command that I entreat and implore singers, players
and dancers to think, not once but twice or thrice, before they yield to the fascination of
the unfamiliar and adopt artistic pseudonyms calculated to intensify the "urges" of their primitive
instincts. It is not too much to say that a singer who deliberately assumes the name of Pongo,
Og or Botuloffsky runs a serious risk, in virtue of the inherent magic of names, of developing
qualities wholly unfitted for the atmosphere of a well-conducted concert-hall.

