These are some of the main grounds on which the Darwinian theory rests. Of the abundance of
detailed illustrations from which it may derive additional support no adequate idea can be
formed, except by careful perusal of its author's own writings, and these fortunately may without
much exaggeration be said to be in everybody's hands. Of the arguments that have been brought
forward in opposition to it, all seem to me to be susceptible of very complete answers, and
one or two of the strongest, of answers more complete than they have yet received. True, there
is no disputing the testimony borne by the paintings and sculptures of Egyptian tombs, and
of Ninevite palaces, that the basement floors in Thebes and Memphis were infested by much the
same sort of beetles as those which are such nuisances in London kitchens; that Sardanapalus,
if ever he exchanged indoor for outdoor sports, may have hunted with dogs and horses that might
pass muster at an English meet, and that the Pharaohs were served by negro slaves as like as
two peas in all externals to those who in the United States have recently and prematurely been
metamorphosed into free and independent electors. But all this only proves that certain species
which existed 4,000 years ago are still represented by unchanged descendants. It does not prove
that other descendants and groups of descendants from the same species have not within the
same period undergone changes sufficiently great to convert them into distinct races; neither,
if it did prove thus much, would it do more than afford a presumption, and a very deceptive
one, that 4,000 years are too short a time for the formation of a new race, affording besides,
at the same time, much stronger presumption that, within the remotest limits to which Mosaic
chronology can be pushed back, the various races of mankind, white, black, and intermediately
tinted, can not possibly have descended from one pair of ancestors.

That domesticated animals, when suffered to run wild, always return to the primitive wild type--this,
instead of an argument against, is one of the strongest arguments for the evolution theory,
from which it is indeed, as Mr. G. H. Lewes says, a necessary deduction. It is simply because,
as the conditions of life change, structure must, for adaptation's sake, change likewise, that
wild animals are capable of being domesticated, of being, that is, made to undergo modifications
by being brought from the conditions of wildness to those of domesticity. How, then, should
they possibly retain those modifications, how escape return to their previous shape and habits,
when retransferred from domesticity to wildness?

The question, Why are not new species continually produced? may be aptly met by another. How,
consistently with the theory, is it possible they should? Natural Selection is represented
as acting 'solely by accumulating slight successive favourable variations,' as taking only
short and slow steps. By what possibility, then, can it suddenly produce modifications sufficiently
conspicuous to mark off a new species? New species may be, and indeed are, constantly in process
of formation on all sides, under our very eyes, without our being aware; for since the process
requires ages for its accomplishment, it must needs be imperceptible by the keenest observation.
So that even when a new species is completed, it is not recognised as new, so minute is the
difference between the perfection to which it has attained, and the imperfect state in which
we and our fathers before us had long known it. Natural selection for survival necessarily
implies extinction of all that are not selected to survive, so that fossil remains are now
the only procurable evidence that any of these latter that have long been extinct ever existed.

Another objection, notwithstanding the great stress often laid on it, seems to me to be altogether
beside the real issue. It is the one derived from the invariable sterility, real or supposed,
of hybrids. A fact cited by Mr. Lewes,[37] that of the fecundity of a cross called Leporides,
bred by M. Rouy of Angoulême, between the hare and rabbit, of which a thousand on an average
were for many years, and probably are still, sent annually to market, would seem to be decisive
against the assumed sterility; but, however this be, matters not the least in regard to the
efficacy of Natural Selection, which, be it once again observed, is represented as producing
new species, not suddenly by the copulation of two old and utterly distinct ones, but very
gradually and slowly, by the accumulation of minute differences occurring in successive individuals
of the same species.

The chief if not the only serious obstacles to acceptance of Darwinism seem to me to be of
the author's own creation. Now and then he appears somewhat needlessly to overstrain his principles,
as for instance when he intimates his conviction that 'all individuals of the same species,
and all the closely allied species of most genera,' will hereafter be discovered to 'have descended
from one parent and to have migrated from some one birthplace.' This, to my mind, is much more
unlikely than his further suggestion that 'all animals and plants are descended from some one
prototype.' Startling as this second proposition may be on first hearing, it may not very improbably
express the real fact, provided by 'some one prototype' be signified, not a single individual,
but several individuals of one and the same type. Beyond all doubt there was a time when on
and about our earth all matter was as yet inorganic, and when whatever spirit,[38] of the sort
so termed in contradistinction to matter, either permeated the earth's substance or moved about
its surface, must have been as yet unembodied. I see no reason for believing that, whatever
other phenomenon, at all similar, may at any stage of the world's progress have occurred, it
has at innumerable subsequent stages been repeated; neither do I consider that the phenomenon
is likely to have worn the guise of a sudden flash. But I do firmly believe, and am quite unable
to substitute any equally plausible substitute for the belief, that when the crust of the earth
had sufficiently cooled, and when other physical conditions had become such as to admit of
the manifestation of that life which we are accustomed to distinguish by attaching to it the
epithet 'organic,' certain of those forces[39] which, in my opinion, constitute matter, did,
either of their own accord or under superior direction--not suddenly flash, but--slowly elaborate
themselves into organic structures of some exceedingly simple type; that in the course of ages
these simple structures either developed themselves or were developed into structures rendered
by slow degrees more and more complex, until the degree of complexity attained, being such
as to fit them for being inhabited by spirit previously unembodied, they were, by individualised
portions of such spirit, appropriated and inhabited accordingly. Beyond all doubt, at some
period or other, what had always previously been unorganised matter must have become organised.
Of two things one, then. Either this matter must, whether under superior direction or not,
have organised itself, or it must have been organised by some other agency. Mr. Darwin, together
with all thorough-going Darwinians, inclines, I suspect, to the opinion that matter organised
itself; but if so, it cannot possibly have been inert or lifeless, but must have been active
and animate, and capable of volition; and on that condition, there is no great stretch of fancy
in imagining it to have spontaneously adopted the series of arrangements indicated. If, on
the other hand, we are content to admit that some external superior intelligence may have performed,
or conducted, or presided over operations, all room for wonder vanishes.

In regard to the character of the structural prototype, that, of course, would depend in part
on surrounding physical conditions, and if these have ever been the same in all parts of the
globe, there is no apparent reason why any number of specimens of the prototype may not anywhere
have been independently elaborated. It is not possible, however, that, since the earth began
to revolve round the sun, physical conditions can have been simultaneously the same in all
latitudes; while, on the other hand, it seems probable that, although the same set of conditions
might perhaps admit of the production of only one organic type, there might be other sets of
conditions favourable to the production of other types. On the whole, then, it seems more probable
that inorganic matter combined (or was combined) in the first instance in several modes, than
in one single mode, in order to become organic. But whatever may have been the organic form
or forms it first took, to assume that only a single individual of each form was independently
elaborated, and that all other individuals, both of the same form and of all the more complex
forms, gradually evolved from that one--are descendants from the same first individual, the
same first parent--surely very gratuitously increases the difficulties of the subject. Especially
it complicates the problem of the distribution of the same plants and animals over countries
immemorially separated by gulfs apparently impassable by natural means.

The obstruction which Mr. Darwin has created to the progress of his opinions by the exaggerated
shape in which some of them have been presented is, however, as nothing in comparison with
the injury he does to his theory by obstinately rejecting certain materials indispensable for
its satisfactory completion. What an admirable theory it is so far as it goes! How nicely it
fits into all the facts it comes in contact with, even into those which it is, of itself and
unassisted, incompetent to explain! How elevating too and ennobling, when rightly conceived!
for who can fail to rejoice in the view it presents of 'Natural selection working solely by
and for the good of each being' that it spares, and causing 'all corporal and mental endowments
to tend towards perfection'? or who need mind suspecting himself to be descended, through an
ape, from a triton or a hydra, if he may compensate himself by hoping to have a distant posterity
of angels? How well, moreover, would it, if permitted, chime in with any rational religion,
besides being, as already hinted, absolutely essential to that part of the Mosaic creed which
represents all the variously coloured and variously featured races of men as springing from
one single couple. By what perversity then is it that Mr. Darwin takes such pains, if not to
render his theory irreligious, at least to exclude from it the assistance which religion alone
can afford, and which it so greatly needs, that whoever, without that assistance, attempts
to apply the theory to the complete elucidation of phenomena, will be found inevitably committing
himself to the most astounding hypotheses? Here I picture to myself a curl on the lip of some
advanced Darwinian who, having accompanied me so far, cannot altogether suppress his compassionate
scorn at the proposed recurrence now-a-days to a mode of thought so obsolete in the treatment
of scientific subjects as the theological. 'Positive biology,' he will perhaps superbly exclaim,
repeating the words of Mr. G. H. Lewes, 'declines theological explanations altogether.' Yes,
but positive biology is therein very unwise, for as, if the same reader will accompany me a
little further, I pledge myself to show, it is the untheological or atheistical, not the theistical,
mode of treatment which is here utterly out of place and flagrantly unscientific. Be it, without
the slightest reserve, admitted that the formation of almost all, and probably of quite all,
existing species is due, and cannot be otherwise than due, to survival of the fittest, the
superior fitness of these, moreover, being due to the gradual accumulation of innumerable and,
for the most part, exceedingly slight divergencies from the parent stock. But whence and why
these divergencies? It cannot be without a cause that even one more feather than the parent
possessed appears in the offspring's wing, or a novel tint on its coat, or that the curve of
beak or talons is not precisely the same in each. What then is the cause? Unphilosophic people
will most likely call it 'all chance,' getting sneered at for their pains, and justly too,
as using words without meaning. But are not philosophers themselves doing much the same thing,
and merely restating facts which they profess to explain, when, like Mr. Lewes,[40] they talk
of the 'specific shape' assumed by an 'organic plasma' being 'always dependent on the polarity
of its molecules,' 'or due to the operation of immanent properties;' or declare that, in the
process of organic evolution, 'each stage determines its successor,' 'consensus of the whole
impressing a peculiar direction on the development of parts, and the law of Epigenesis necessitating
a serial development,' insomuch that, 'every part being the effect of a pre-existing, and in
turn the cause of a succeeding part,' the reason why, when a crab loses its claw, the member
is reproduced, is that the group of cells remaining at the stump 'is the necessary condition
of the genesis' of precisely that new group which the reproductive process imperatively requires
to follow next in order, this second group equally the necessary condition for genesis of the
one required third, the third for the fourth, and so on; and that the reason why the thorns
of a blackberry admit of somewhat close comparison with the hooks and spines of certain crustaceæ,
is that portions of the integument of both plant and crawfish 'tend under similar external
forces to develop' into similar forms?

I pass rapidly over one or two minor difficulties that here present themselves. I will not
stop to ask how--if reproduction of lost limbs be due to polarity of the molecules, in other
words to the direction which in the circumstances of the case the molecules are bound to take,
and if the polarity of each particular set of molecules be impressed upon them by the group
formed immediately previously--how it is that the group terminating the docked stump of a limb,
which group is represented as commencing the work of reproduction, imparts a different direction
or tendency to the fresh molecules of nourishment that are supplied to it, from that which
it has been accustomed to communicate to previous molecular supplies. Hitherto it has used
such molecules solely for the repair of its own waste; now it employs a large portion of them
to build up an entirely new fabric. It seems then that molecular polarity is not a fixed but
a variable property, and, being such, cannot be inherent or originate in the molecular nature.
But I will not linger over this point nor yet over the fact, absolutely unintelligible on the
polar hypothesis, that it is comparatively only few animals that are capable of reproducing
severed parts. Although the process required, no doubt, is, as Mr. Lewes says, 'in all essential
respects the same as that which originally produced' the parts, the last layer of cells left
at the place of excision after a human leg or arm has been cut off, lacks the skill to repeat
an operation, which according to the hypothesis it has once before performed. It cannot so
determine the polarity of the molecules with which it is supplied by the arteries as to constrain
them to group themselves into a new layer, instead of merely repairing an old one. A crab or
a lobster, or a polype's molecules are clever enough for this, a man's not. Without pressing
these objections, but on the contrary, conceding for the nonce and for argument's sake, to
molecular polarity, to immanent properties, to Epigenetic evolution, all the efficacy claimed
for them, I limit myself to inquiring what causes the various tendencies and directions which
these imply. Tendency pre-supposes impulse; direction control. What is it that here imparts
the impulse and exercises the control? Whatever else it be, it must, for reasons stated at
length on a previous page, be something possessing at least enough of intelligence to exercise
volition, and which at least intends that the movements which it originates shall take place,
whether it further intends or not the ends which eventually result from the movements. To myself
it seems barely conceivable that even the least marvellous of these ends should have been undesigned.
Take, for instance, half a dozen infusoria of some exceedingly low type, all individually single
cells or sacs of matter perfectly transparent and destitute of any approach to structure that
can be detected with a magnifying power of five thousand diameters. Observe how, after feeding
for a while, and increasing proportionately in size, one will divide itself in half, each half
becoming a separate and complete animalcule, another line itself internally and clothe itself
externally with clustered cells, which, by a series of differentiations, traceable through
a number of animalcular varieties, eventually exhibit the outlines of respiratory and circulatory
systems. To me, I repeat, it seems all but inconceivable, and altogether incredible, that the
intelligence which willed these cellular divisions, multiplications, and differentiations to
take place, did not foresee what would be their results, and did not will them for the sake
of those results. And if I do not deem it still more incredible that there should be natural
selection separating the fittest for survival by accumulating upon them slight advantages which
qualify them to survive, without there being at the same time a nature, or other exalted intelligence,
however designated, which selects, and which accumulates advantages upon the objects of its
selection, in order that they may survive, it is only because I consider the extremest limits
of credibility to have been already passed. But I forget. On reflection I perceive that I am
doing scant justice to the elasticity of philosophic belief. How far this is capable of stretching
on occasion, let one or two notable Darwinian specimens show.

No single piece of organic mechanism is oftener or more confidently appealed to by Theists
as rendering conclusive evidence on their side than the eye, nor would they run much risk by
allowing sentence to go for or against them according as Mr. Darwin has or has not succeeded
in his attempt to explain that evidence away. Possibly he may disclaim having made any attempt
of the kind, and I must admit that it is less by what he says than by what he leaves unsaid,
that he lays himself open to the charge. Indeed, in almost all he says on the subject, I myself
cordially agree, embracing even some of his views with less of hesitation than he seems to
have felt in putting them forward. He proceeds to indicate some probable stages in the assumed
process. Some of the lowest organisms, in which no trace of nerves can be detected, are known
to be sensible to light, owing, probably, to the presence in the sarcode of which they are
mainly composed, of certain elements which, in organisms somewhat higher in the scale, become
aggregated and developed into nerves specially endowed with the same sensibility. An optic
nerve thus formed, surrounded by pigment cells, and covered by translucent skin, is the simplest
organ that can be called an eye, but it is an eye incapable of distinct vision, and serving
only to distinguish light from darkness. In certain star-fishes, small depressions in the layer
of pigment-cells are filled with transparent gelatinous matter projecting with a convex surface
like a rudimentary cornea, and this, it has been suggested, may serve, not only to form an
image, but to concentrate the luminous rays. In insects, the numerous facets in the cornea
of their great compound eyes have now been ascertained to form true lenses, the cones, moreover,
having been discovered to include curiously modified nervous filaments. It is impossible not,
in this series of changes, to perceive the appearance of graduation, nor ought there to be
much difficulty in believing the apparent graduation to be real, when we consider how few comparatively
are the still living forms in which the changes cited have been observed, and how far more
numerous the extinct forms by which intermediate changes may have been presented. If there
be no extravagance in supposing that natural selection may have occasioned these early steps,
neither is there any in supposing that, by continued progress in the same direction, it may
at length have fabricated the most perfect optical instrument possessed by any member of the
articulata. And, if credited so far, why not still further? why not with competence to form
a man's or an eagle's eye? So far I am as completely at one with Mr. Darwin in respect to the
eye as in respect to any other of the subjects taken by him for illustration. The fact is,
however, that in this, as in every similar instance, he has completely evaded the real difficulties
of the case. It is not a whit more startling to be told that the most complex eye, with all
the latest improvements, than to be told that the earliest rudiment of an optic nerve, may
have been formed by the gradual accumulation of minute differences. Only allow time enough
for the requisite accumulation, and neither operation is one whit more unintelligible than
the other. The difficulty, equally and utterly insuperable in both cases, is to understand
how the difference can have been undesigned. 'How a nerve comes to be sensitive to light,'
says Mr. Darwin, 'hardly concerns us more than how life itself originated.' Perhaps not; nor,
indeed, very well could it, for the second question of the two is surely one of almost unsurpassed
concernment; but, at any rate, when either of the two is asked, nothing can be more reprehensible
than, by studiously ignoring the only alternative reply, to leave it to be inferred that the
nerve made itself, or that life caused itself to live, that both are in short examples of what
Mr. Darwin strangely calls 'variation causing alterations.'[41] Let us briefly consider a few
of the results supposed to be attributable to this singular process. The eye, as every reader
of course knows, though here and there one perhaps may not be the worse for being reminded,
consists of four coats--the sclerotic, outermost and strongest, which constitutes the white
of the eye; the circular, tough, and coloured, yet pellucid, cornea, in the centre of which
is seen the pupil; the choroid, full charged with black pigment, and lining the sclerotic;
the retina, an expansion of the optic nerve, lining in its turn the choroid; of the iris, a
flat membrane, dividing the eye into two very unequally-sized chambers; of a lens termed the
crystalline, suspended in the posterior chamber immediately behind the iris; and of two humours
(also virtual lenses), whereof one, the aqueous, is enclosed in the anterior chamber formed
by the iris and the cornea, while the other, the vitreous, fills the whole of the posterior
chamber save what is occupied by the crystalline lens. By what nice interlacement of filaments
the fibrous ring that margins the pupil, or aperture through the iris, regulates the admission
of light, contracting or expanding, yet always preserving its circular form, according as the
brilliance is excessive or deficient; how the humours or lenses are continually varying in
figure and relative position so as to concentrate every pencil of light admitted on that point
exactly where the retina is spread out to receive it; how, according as the object looked at
is near at hand or far off, certain muscles perform quite opposite services, rendering the
cornea more or less prominent, pushing the crystalline lens forward or backward, and thereby
lengthening or shortening the axis of vision, so that, whether the rays enter divergently from
a near object, or parallel from a remote one, they equally fall into focus at the same distance
beyond, and equally form on the retina a picture of the object from which they come, perhaps
compressing a landscape of five or six square leagues into a space of half an inch diameter,
and anon allowing the page of a book or a dinner-plate to occupy the entire field of vision--to
these and to any kindred marvels it would be superfluous more than momentarily to refer. Suffice
it to note how measureless the superiority, as a mere piece of mechanism, of an average eye
to the finest of telescopes, and how just, nevertheless, is the telescope-maker's claim to
praise for skilful adaptation to the laws of optics, when he has succeeded in a faint and feeble
imitation of some minor part of nature's visual apparatus. Yet nature's original and infinitely
more beautiful aptitudes we are forbidden to deem adaptations, being required instead to regard
them as self-produced, or, at any rate, as having been undesigned. Now I unreservedly admit
that, among all conceivable forms, among the most exquisitely beautiful and most usefully intricate
and complex, there is not one which may not possibly have been produced without aim or purpose
by the mere restlessness of elemental forces; the amount of probability of their having been
so produced being, however, according to the formula already set forth in its proper place,
as one to infinity multiplied more or less frequently by itself. But what adequate superlative
shall we invent to express the credulity, the credulosity run mad, of those who, in a matter
of scientific belief, deliberately accept such odds. Observe how at once extravagantly gratuitous
and painfully elaborate such credulosity is; how easily, on the one hand, all its ends could
be served by the simple expedient of supposing a superintending intelligence; how, on the other,
it compels ingenuity like Mr. Darwin's to entrench itself behind a phrase of utterly unmeaning
gibberish.

If you see a man moving slowly, with head down, over an extensive plain, you may fairly suspect
that he does not know where he is going, and possibly does not mean to go anywhere in particular.
But if you perceive that on reaching a ditch he takes a leap over, you are quite sure that,
when leaping, he meant to get to the other side. To that extent his saltatory movement is unequivocal
evidence of design. It is perhaps to escape the necessity of a similar inference that Mr. Darwin
so frequently quotes the proverb Natura non facit saltum; but, if so, he leans on a broken
reed--on a bit of proverbial philosophy as weak as the weakest of Mr. Tupper's. That Nature
does sometimes make a leap, and a pretty long one, must be obvious to any visitor to the Museum
of the London College of Surgeons, who has examined the two-headed and four-legged human foeti
there preserved in spirits. It may be said that these are leaps in the wrong direction. Be
it so. Still, whoever can leap backward can make an equal leap forward, and most people will
find the latter the easier feat of the two. The power, whatever it be, that coupled together
the Siamese Twins, and gave to those respected brothers, the late William and Robert Chambers
of Edinburgh, twelve fingers and twelve toes apiece, would not have gone at all more out of
the way by doing, suddenly and at once, several of those things which Mr. Darwin doubts not
that it does slowly and by degrees--by single acts, for instance, instead of by a succession
of acts, aggregating into the semblance of an optic nerve certain elements in the sarcode of
certain low organisms, spreading out the nerve thus formed into a network or retina, forming
a number of separate pigment-cells into a homogeneous cornea, and following up these first
steps by others which, how much soever more apparently complex, would cost comparatively little
after the earlier and simpler ones had been taken. Now let but the power competent to do these
things be credited with sense enough to be aware of its competence, and it may then be regarded
as not unlikely to have done some of them on purpose. Whereupon, the genesis of the eye ceases
to be a mystery. All the appearances of contrivance that have resulted from the operation find
their obvious and complete explanation in the assumption of a contriver, and all such hazy
films as that of variability producing variation cease to be capable of serving as excuses
for wilful blindness. And why should not the power in question be so credited? Here is Mr.
Darwin's solitary reason why. He doubts whether the inference implied may not be 'presumptuous.'
He apprehends that we have no 'right to assume that the Creator works by intellectual powers
like those of a man.' Truly, of all suggested modes of marking respect for creative power,
that of assuming it to have worked unintelligently is the most original.

The hypothesis offered by Mr. Darwin in explanation of the most perfect of organic structures,
is deemed by him to be equally explanatory of the most marvellous of animal instincts. Parenthetically,
here, never having as yet met with a definition of instinct which I am able to accept as satisfactory,
I make bold to offer a description of my own. Instinct is innate knowledge how to perform any
useful actions, accompanied by a tendency or propensity to perform those actions, but wholly
unaccompanied by knowledge of any purpose which they can serve. This is pure instinct, an example
whereof is afforded by the beaver, of which animal I have somewhere read that one caught when
newly born, and brought up by itself in a room in its captor's house, proceeded after a while
to build up across the apartment the semblance of a dam, composed of brushes, rugs, billets
of wood, and other litter. Pure instinct differs essentially, not in degree only, but in kind,
from reason, which is not knowledge, but an instrument for acquiring knowledge. Instinct, however,
is rarely if ever found pure, being apparently always accompanied by more or less of reason.
Even a polype makes some show of reason by moving its cilia in one mode when it desires to
suck in food, and in another when it merely wishes to move on; while it is scarcely possible
for an unprejudiced spectator to doubt of its being by a rational deduction from experience
that a dog knows that it will get kicked if it presume to snatch at the meat on its master's
plate, instead of waiting for the scraps he may be pleased to throw to it when he has done.
Instinct by necessary implication involves habit; habit as necessarily always more or less
modifies structure; structural modification always may be, and often is, inherited, carrying
with it a tendency to the habit out of which itself arose; therefore habit and instinct are
likewise heritable. Some instincts are originated artificially. The reason why, on the very
first opportunity, a young pointer has been known to point at game, and a young sheep-dog to
run round, instead of at, a flock of sheep, is that some of their respective ancestors had
been carefully trained so to point and to wheel. These, however, are exceptions to the general
rule. Of the causes which he styles unknown, I maintain that we know at least thus much--either
they are themselves intelligent forces, or they are forces acting under intelligent direction;
and in support of this proposition I need not perhaps do more than show from Mr. Darwin's example
what infinitely harder things must be accepted by those who decline to accept this.

Mr. Darwin, like every really truth-loving controversialist, far from desiring to shroud, invites
special attention to any seeming weaknesses in his position; and, therefore, when contending
that all the faculties commonly classed as instincts, are exclusively due to natural selection,
of course takes care to particularise the cellmaking faculty of the hive bee. And here, again,
I gladly bear my humble testimony to the partial success he has achieved. Although bound to
protest against the claim set up by him, on behalf of natural selection, to the entire credit
of producing the hive bee's most remarkable characteristic, I cannot but think he has succeeded
in removing all the apparent difficulties of believing that natural selection's share may have
been not less important in that than in any other productive operation in which it takes part.

In popular estimation the hive bee is a heaven-born mathematician which, having been set the
problem how to fill a given space with waxen cells with the least loss of room and expenditure
of material, arrives by intuition and instantaneously at a solution which Newton himself was
ignorant of, and to which, but for his discovery of the fluxional calculus, it would have been
impossible for his follower, Maclaurin, to attain. And, doubtless, it may excusably be deemed
supernatural that the insect should adopt off-hand precisely that six-sided figure, and precisely
that inclination of the angles of the same figure's pyramidal roof or floor, which, only by
very refined and recondite investigation, can be scientifically shown to be those best fitted
for the purpose. Mr. Darwin has, however, adduced strong grounds for supposing the amazing
architectural skill thus displayed to have been acquired, not suddenly, but by the same slow
degrees as those which are so clearly traceable throughout organic progress in general. At
the higher end of the series, he saw hive bees making double layers of cells, each cell an
hexagonal prism with the basal ends of its six sides bevelled so as to fit on to a pyramid
formed of three rhombs, and each of the three rhombs which compose the pyramidal base of a
single cell on one side of the comb entering into the composition of one of the three adjoining
cells on the opposite side. Intermediately, he found the Mexican meliponæ domesticæ depositing
their honey in cells nearly spherical, and of nearly equal sizes. Certainly a very happy example
of an ingenious conjecture verified by a species of demonstration hardly inferior to the experimental.
Certainly a very valuable testimony to the soundness of all the main and really essential principles
of Darwinism. Good cause, certainly, is hereby shown for believing that the cell-making faculty
of the hive bee may be nothing more than the aggregate of many minute and successive improvements
upon that of the melipona, and this, again, than a similar aggregate of improvements on that
of the humble bee; and for believing further that hive bee and melipona may both be either
descendants from the humble bee, or joint-descendants with it from some still earlier common
progenitor. In order to believe this it suffices to believe that a bee which at one period
made, like the humble bee, cells very unequally sized and irregularly rounded, came gradually,
in the course of time, to make them as nearly equal in size and as nearly spherical as those
of the melipona; and subsequently, during a further lapse of time, came to arrange them at
the same distances from each other, and in double layers like those of the humble bee. To assume
thus much requires no inordinate stretch of faith; and thus much being assumed, it is seen
at once that the hive bee, requiring for its cells only about half as much wax as the humble
bee does, and consequently only about half as much honey for the secretion of the requisite
wax, would, in a struggle for existence, leave the humble bee so little chance that in all
probability the two species would nowhere coexist, were it not for the special resource derived
by the humble bee from possession of a trunk long enough to enter the nectaries of certain
flowers, which the shorter trunk of the hive bee is unable to tap. But though there be no difficulty
in assuming the improvements in question to have gradually taken place, and to have become
aggregated in the manner supposed, there is, to my mind, an insuperable objection to supposing
that successive generations of bees should have successively adopted the improvements without
either having the sense to know what they were doing, or being prompted by some superior intelligence
that did know. I will not be so superfluous as to exaggerate the difficulty. Passing over the
earlier stages of the process, and confining myself to one or two of the later, I will content
myself with showing how infinitesimally small, when magnified to the utmost, are the chances
in favour of these having been passed through blindly. I will admit it to be possible that
in a society of purely meliponish habits, there might, in virtue of one or other of those inscrutable
causes classed under the general name of spontaneous variation, arise some two or three individuals
with an innate propensity to make accurately spherical and equally sized cells; that these
individuals, if either males or fertile females, and not sterile neuters, might help to generate
others with the same propensity, these again generating others, and so on, until the greater
part or the whole of the community became possessed of the same constructive aptitude. I will
admit further that, in virtue of the same inscrutable causes, individuals, at first few, but
gradually increasing in number, might similarly be born with the additional tendency to make
cells at the same, and that the most appropriate, distance from all adjoining cells; and will
freely acknowledge that the bees, modifying their previous mode of construction, as meliponæ
necessarily would do under these altered circumstances, would construct a layer of cells similar
in all respects to those on one side of the hive bee's comb, except that their bases would
be flat instead of pyramidal. Further, I admit that the bases would become pyramidal in case
the bees should set about constructing double instead of single layers of cells on the same
principle. Not a little liberality is required for these admissions. For, in the first place,
the fact of the bees having acquired the habit of making perfect and equally sized spheres
would not of itself be of any obvious benefit either to individual bees or to the society at
large: in order that it should enable material and labour to be saved it would have to be accompanied
by the habit of making the cells at special distances from each other. And, in the second place,
though some few individuals should present themselves with an innate tendency to choose these
special distances, whatever advantage might result therefrom, whatever saving of material or
labour, would be shared in equally by the whole community, the particular individuals to whom
it was due benefiting by it no more than any of the rest, and not being, in consequence, more
likely than they to survive in any struggle for existence, or to leave behind them offspring
inheriting their special characteristics. No help, therefore, can be derived from Mr. Darwin's
principles towards conjecturing why a small minority of such specially endowed bees should
be gradually converted into a majority, and should eventually constitute the whole community,
thereupon becoming in fact converted into a new species. Let us, however, liberally waive this
and all similar objections, and assume a community of hive bees to have been, in the utterly
unaccountable manner indicated by the term spontaneous variation, developed from a meliponish
stock. Unfortunately, all our liberality will be found to have been thrown away without perceptibly
simplifying the problem to be solved. For, whatever be among meliponæ the distribution of the
generative capacities, among hive bees, at any rate, all workers are sterile neuters, which
never have any offspring to whom to bequeath their cellmaking skill, while the queen bee and
drones, which alone can become parents, have no such skill to bequeath. Clearly the formula
of 'descent with modification by natural selection,' is, in its literal sense, utterly inapplicable
here. In whatever manner the cell-making faculty might have been acquired by the first homogeneous
swarm of hive bees, it must inevitably have terminated with the generation with which it commenced,
if transmission by direct descent had been necessary for its continuance. The only resource
open to Mr. Darwin is to suppose, not merely (what is, indeed, obviously the fact) that queen
bee after queen bee, besides generating each in turn a progeny of workers endowed with instincts
which their parents did not possess and could not therefore impart, generated also princess
bees destined in due season to generate a working progeny similarly endowed with instincts
underived from their parents; but to suppose further that all this has happened in the total
absence of aim, object, intention, or design. Now that all this should have so happened, although
not absolutely inconceivable, nor, therefore, absolutely impossible, is surely too incredible
to be believed except in despair of some other hypothesis a trifle less preposterous. It is
surely not worth while to set the doctrine of probabilities so completely at naught, for the
sake of an explanation which avowedly leaves every difficulty unexplained, referring them all
to causes not simply unknown but unconjecturable. What excuse, then, have philosophers, of
all people, for doing this in preference to the simple expedient of supposing that, although
the parturient bee, queen or other, cannot intend that any of her progeny should be more bounteously
endowed than herself, there is an independent intelligence that does so intend? To content
oneself with pronouncing such preference to be eminently unscientific is tenderness of language
nearly akin, I fear, to literary bathos.

III.

I have said that the form of unbelief to which, on the principle of calling a spade a spade,
I have taken the liberty of giving the name of Scientific Atheism, manifests itself now-a-days
rather by ignoration than by formal denial of God. This, however, is not a new feature in any
atheism really worthy of being styled scientific. Even as Mr. Darwin verbally recognises a
Creator, although without assigning to Him any share in creation, even so Kant, when more than
a century ago undertaking, in his 'General Natural History and Theory of the Celestial Bodies,'[42]
to account for the constitution and mechanical origin of the universe on Newtonian principles,
spoke of the elements as deriving their essential qualities from the 'eternal thought of the
Divine Intelligence,' without, however, crediting the said Intelligence with having interposed
in order to carry out His thoughts. All this he does, according to Professor Huxley, by 'strict
deduction from admitted dynamical principles,' and I, well aware of my own inability to form
an independent judgment on the point, gladly take so high an authority's word for it. For aught
that I know, Kant's attractive and repulsive forces being admitted, the establishment of centres
of attraction, and of circle within circle of revolutions round them, and all his other details,
would follow naturally and of course. I limit myself to asking, Whence these simple forces?--and
when Kant replies, 'From the Eternal Thought of the Divine Understanding,' I should be the
last to criticise if his answer stopped there. Unfortunately, he adds that the forces were
'evolved without purpose'; in other words, that the Intelligence which thought them into existence
failed to think of any purpose for them. 'Matter,' he proceeds, 'is purely passive, yet, nevertheless,
has in its simplest state a determination towards the assumption of a more perfect constitution
in the way of natural development, whereby it breaks up rest, stirs up nature, gives to chaos
shape.' For the elements whereof this passively stirring up matter is composed 'have native
powers of setting each other in motion, and are to themselves a spring of life;' and when,
having of course being previously dead, they have given themselves life, they forthwith begin
to attract each other with a strength varying with their varying degrees of specific gravity.
The scattered elements of the denser sort collect by attraction all particles of less specific
gravity out of their immediate neighbourhood, and are themselves similarly collected by particles
of still denser sort, these again by others denser yet, and so on, until, as results of this
particular action, several masses are formed which in like manner would converge towards and
be united with the largest and densest of their number, were it not that the counter principle
of repulsion now comes into play. This principle--familiarly exemplified in the elasticity
of vapours, the emanations from strong smelling substances, and the expansion of all spirituous
substances--causes the vertical movements of the converging masses to be deflected laterally,
so as ultimately to enclose the central mass within circles which, at first intersecting each
other in all directions, are at length, by dint of mutual collision, made all to revolve in
the same direction, and nearly the same plane.

Now I most earnestly protest against being suspected of what in me would be the intolerable
impertinence of desiring to cast ridicule on these magnificent speculations, the grandeur of
which I thoroughly appreciate so far as my scant mathematics enable me to follow them. I take
exception to them only because the language in which they are couched seems to imply that operations,
of whose nature one of the most powerful of human intellects could, at its utmost stretch,
catch only a faint hazy inkling, may yet have been initiated and perfected without the intervention
of any intellect at all. This is a falsism against which my respect for philosophy and philosophers
makes me only all the more indignant when I find any of the latter falling into it, as those
of them inevitably must who, busying themselves, early or late,

              With a mighty debate,
  A profound speculation about the creation
  And organical life, and chaotical strife,
  With various notions of heavenly motions,
  And rivers and oceans, and valleys and mountains,
  And sources of fountains, and meteors on high,
  And stars in the sky,--propose by and bye,

like John Hookham Frere's Aristophanic Birds,

  If we'll listen and hear,
  To make perfectly clear

how creation took place without a conscious Creator. All their fancied solutions of this hopeless
puzzle have one feature in common--a family likeness which the wickedest wit finds it difficult
to caricature. There is a note to Frere and Canning's 'Loves of the Triangles' which the reader
will be grateful to me for transcribing here, the more frequently he may have laughed at it
already, laughing now all the more, and laughing heartily at it now though he may never have
before.

It begins by tracing the genesis or original formation of Space to a single point, in the same
manner as the elder Darwin had, in his 'Zoonomia,' traced the whole organized universe to his
six Filaments.

It then proceeds as follows:--

'SPACE being thus obtained, and presenting a suitable nidus or receptacle for the generation
of chaotic matter, an immense deposit of it would gradually be accumulated; after which the
filament of fire being produced in the chaotic mass by an idiosyncrasy or self-formed habit
analogous to fermentation, explosion would take place, suns would be shot from the central
chaos, planets from suns, and satellites from planets. In this state of things, the filament
of organization would begin to exert itself in those independent masses which, in proportion
to their bulk, exposed the greatest surface to the action of light and heat. This filament,
after an infinite series of ages, would begin to ramify, and its viviparous offspring would
diversify their forms and habits so as to accommodate themselves to the various incunabula
which nature had prepared for them. Upon this view of things, it seems highly probable that
the first effort of Nature terminated in the production of vegetables, and that these being
abandoned to their own energies, by degrees detached themselves from the surface of the earth,
and supplied themselves with wings and feet, according as their different propensities determined
them in favour of aerial or terrestrial existence. Others, by an inherent disposition to society
and civilisation, and by a stronger effort of volition, would become men. These in time would
restrict themselves to the use of their hind feet; their tails would gradually rub off by sitting
in their caves or huts as soon as they arrived at a domesticated state; they would invent language
and the use of fire, with our present and hitherto imperfect system of society. In the meantime,
the Fuci and Algæ, with the Corallines and Madrepores, would transform themselves into fish,
and gradually populate all the submarine portions of the globe.'[44]

Although the writers of this delicious drollery seem to have had Dr. Erasmus Darwin only in
view, they could not, we thus see, parody his peculiar crotchets without hitting off not less
neatly some of the corresponding extravagances of both earlier and later expounders of Nature.
Nature is a phrase which, greatly to the confusion of those who so employ it, is habitually
used simultaneously in two quite opposite senses, so as to denote at the same time both the
agency in virtue of whose action the universe exists, and likewise the universe itself which
results from that action. Nature, in either signification, becomes to a great extent interpretable
when the agency so designated is credited with sufficient sense to foresee and to intend the
results of its own action. On that condition, although among the many unsolved problems she
may continue to present there will be some evidently lying beyond the limits of human comprehension,
there will be none running counter to human reason. Except on that condition, the universe
is not simply uninterpretable, it is a bewildering assemblage of irreconcilable certainties.
Philosophy's choice lies between such patent truisms as that there can be no force but living
force, no vis but vis vivida, no vis inertiæ otherwise than metaphorically, and such blatant
falsisms as that inertness and exertion may coincide, unintelligence generate intelligence,
agency of whatsoever sort produce, merely by its own act, and merely out of its own essence,
other agency capable of higher action than its own. Philosophy, when with these sets of alternatives
before her she deliberately chooses the latter, becomes Scientific Atheism, all the varieties
of which have one point in common, resembling each other in their proneness to rush upon and
embrace demonstrable impossibilities for the sake of avoiding a few things hard to be understood.
One variety, however, the Comtist, far exceeds all the rest in the lengths to which it is carried
by this propensity.

IV.

If, in speaking as I am about to do of Comtism, I commit--heedless of Mr. Lewes' solemn warning--the
grave offence of speaking confidently about a writer whom I have never read, I may at least
plead in extenuation of my fault, that, although my knowledge of that writer be confessedly
merely an echo of what others have said of him, those others, at any rate, far from being his
antagonists, are two of the most ardent of his not undiscriminating admirers. It is from Mr.
Mill[45] and from Mr. Lewes[46] himself that I have derived the notions of Comtist philosophy
that suggest to me the following notes.

These, however, are trifles--mere spots on the sun one might say, were but the surface on which
they appear altogether sunlike--and I leave them without additional remark except that, although
it may perhaps have been hypercritical to point them out, still the language of a new philosophy,
claiming to supersede all old ones, ought to be proof even against hypercriticism. I pass on
to a generalisation, termed by Mr. Mill 'the key to Comte's other generalisations: one on which
all the others are dependent, and which forms the back-bone, so to speak, of his philosophy,'
insomuch that 'unless it be true he has accomplished little.' This is the so much vaunted discovery
that all human thought passes necessarily through three stages, beginning with the theological,
and proceeding through the metaphysical to the positive. These three terms, however, in the
novel sense in which they are used by Comte, stand very urgently in need of definition. By
the theological is to be understood that stage of the mind in which the facts of the universe
are regarded as governed by single and direct volitions of a being or beings possessed of life
and intelligence. It is the stage in which winds are supposed to blow, seas to rage, trees
to grow, and mountains to tower aloft, either because winds, seas, trees, and mountains are
themselves alive and so act of their own accord; or because there is a spirit dwelling in each
of them which desires that it shall so act; or because each separate class of objects is superintended
by an out-dwelling divinity, which similarly desires; or, finally, because one single divinity,
supreme over all things, initiates and maintains all the apparently spontaneous movements of
inanimate bodies. In the metaphysical stage, phenomena are ascribed not to volitions, either
sublunary or celestial, but to realised abstractions--to properties, qualities, propensities,
tendencies, forces, regarded as real existences, inherent in but distinct from the concrete
bodies in which they reside; while the characteristic of the positive stage is the universal
recognition that all phenomena without exception are governed by invariable laws, with which
no volitions, natural or supernatural, interfere. These being the three stages, the discovery
of which as a series necessarily passed through by human thought in its progress towards maturity,
constitutes one of Comte's chief glories, I almost tremble at my own audacity, shrinking from
the sound myself am making, when by inexorable sense of duty constrained to declare that the
grand discovery is after all merely that of a distinction without a difference.

What Comte chiefly condemned in the metaphysical mode of thought, are the conception of mental
abstractions as real entities which exert power and produce phenomena, and the enunciation
of these entities as explanations of the phenomena; and certainly 'it is,' as Mr. Mill says,
or rather was, previously to his own ingenious solution of it, 'one of the puzzles of philosophy,
how mankind, after inventing a set of mere names to keep together certain combinations of ideas
and images, could have so far forgotten their own act as to invest these creations of their
will with objective reality, and mistake the name of a phenomenon for its efficient cause.'
Those natural laws, however, on which Positivism relies--are not they as purely mental abstractions
as the essences, virtues, properties, forces, and what not, for which it is proposed to substitute
them? Yet since Positivism regards these laws as 'governing' phenomena, and having phenomena
'subject' to them, must it not necessarily regard them likewise as realised abstractions, as
real entities? Plainly, if its language be taken literally, its professors must acknowledge
that it does, unless they prefer to stultify themselves by propounding such unmitigated nonsense
as that power may be exercised, and phenomena produced, by non-entities. But if so, what else
is Positivism than another form of that very metaphysicism which it condemns? and a form, too,
peculiarly obnoxious to Mr. Mill's caustic remark that 'as in religion, so in philosophy, men
marvel at the absurdity of other people's tenets, while exactly parallel absurdities remain
in their own, and the same man is unaffectedly astonished that words can be mistaken for things,
who is treating other words as if they were things every time he opens his mouth.'

Possibly, however, it may be replied that 'government by natural laws' is a phrase which Positivists
never use except metaphorically, and by which they never mean more than certain successions
of events.[47] Very well. Either, then, they acknowledge no real government of phenomena at
all, in which case to speak of phenomena as governed by law is, if not a purely gratuitous
mystification, as glaring an instance as can well be conceived of a 'bare enunciation of facts,
put forward as a theory or explanation of them:' or, if they do recognise real government,
then they must suppose that, behind those mere mental abstractions, laws or order of Nature,
there must be some lawgiver or other being that originally issued the laws, or ordained the
order, and still enforces them, or maintains it. But if this be the positivist faith, then,
that we may discover its other self, we have only to go still further back; as far back, however,
as to the theological stage, supposed to have been so early left behind, yes, even unto the
deities or deity that the metaphysical entities had displaced. Positivism, in short, is in
this dilemma: either the mode of thought claimed by it as peculiarly its own is simply that
process so justly ridiculed by Comte himself as the 'naïf reproduction of phenomena as the
reason for themselves,' and by Mr. Lewes as 'a restatement' (by way of explanation) 'of the
facts to be explained;' or it is at any rate nothing more than a return, either to the metaphysical
or to the theological mode of thought, according as one or the other is adopted of the only
two interpretations that can possibly be placed on its own nomenclature. A new mode it certainly
is not. It is either no mode of thought at all, but merely an empty form of words; or it is
at best only a new name for one or other of two old-fashioned modes, both of which its author
denounces as false from the beginning, and now worn out and obsolete into the bargain.

Of other features of Comtist philosophy it would be out of place to speak here,[48] where,
indeed, that philosophy would not have been mentioned at all but for its having been transformed
by its author into a religion, and that, too, an atheistical religion--the 'Religion of Humanity.'
To myself, as to most people, a religion without a God is a contradiction in terms. To constitute
what is almost universally understood by religion it does not suffice that there be a 'creed
or conviction claiming authority over the whole of human life: a belief or set of beliefs deliberately
adopted respecting human destiny and duty, to which the believer inwardly acknowledges that
all his actions ought to be subordinate:' nor that there be in addition 'a sentiment connected
with this creed or capable of being invoked by it, sufficiently powerful to give it, in fact,
the authority over human conduct to which it lays claim in theory:' nor yet that there be,
moreover, 'an ideal object, the believer's attachment and sense of duty towards which are able
to control and discipline all his other sentiments and propensities, and prescribe to him a
rule of life.'[49] That such an object is fully capable of gathering round it feelings sufficiently
strong to enforce the most rigid rule of life, will certainly not be denied by me, privileged
as I am to count among my friends more than one whose whole life is little else than a life
of devotion to an object, 'the general interest of the human race,' plainly incapable of affording
them in exchange that 'eternity of personal enjoyment' to which ordinary devotees look forward
as their reward, and whose virtue I honour as approaching the sublime, on account of its independence
of all the props and stimulants which ordinary virtue finds indispensable. But the sublimest
virtue does not of itself constitute religion. For, besides the 'creed,' 'conviction,' and
'sentiment' indicated above, there is needed some suitable object of worship to which the soul
may alternately bow down in humble reverence, and look up in fervent love--some being to whom
its prayer, praise, and thanksgiving may be fittingly addressed. This want, recognised--as
one of the few who do not recognise it admits--by nine out of every ten persons, was distinctly
recognised by Comte, who, however, attempted to supply it by pointing, not to God, but to Man.
His reason for this was not a conviction that there is no God. On the contrary, he habitually
disclaimed, not without acrimony, dogmatic atheism; and once even condescended so far as to
declare that 'the hypothesis of design has much greater verisimilitude than that of a blind
mechanism.' But in the 'mature state of intelligence' at which his mind had arrived, 'conjecture
founded on analogy did not seem to him a basis to rest a theory upon.' He preferred a religious
theory without a basis, and therefore adopted one as destitute of support as the tortoise on
which stands the earth-upholding elephant of Hindoo mythology; selecting, as the 'Grand Être'
to be worshipped, 'the entire Human Race, conceived as a continuous whole, past, present, and
future.' For this great collective non-existence, this compound of that which is, that which
has been but has ceased to be, and that which is not yet, he elaborated a minute ritual of
devotional observances, and would, if he had had the chance, have consecrated a complete sacerdotal
hierarchy, subordinated to himself as supreme pontiff. Having, for fear of recognising what
possibly might not be, begun by, wilfully and with his eyes open, recognising what could not
possibly be, he proceeded to invest this sanctified non-existence with precisely those attributes
best calculated to render it unfit to receive the admiration he prescribed for it. That feeble
Humanity--the actually living portion thereof, that is--may need and be the better for our
services, which Divine Omnipotence of course cannot be, was distinctly urged by him as a reason
why prayers, or at least those outpourings of feeling which he so designated, should be addressed
to the former and not to the latter. That Humanity is in a constant state of progress, so that
both the collective mass and choice specimens of each successive generation of men must always
be superior to the corresponding masses and specimens of all previous generations, is a prime
article of the Comtist creed; but not the less is it an imperative injunction of the Comtist
rubrick that religious homage shall be paid, not only to the collective 'Grand Être' of Humanity,
but also to individual worthies of past ages--that superiors shall consequently fall down before,
and worship, and take as models, their intellectual and moral inferiors. The fact of a religion
made up of tenets like these having been thought out by one of the profoundest of reasoners
does not prevent its being the very perfection of unreason. Even though on the one side there
were nothing more than some doubt whether Deity might not exist, still with complete certainty
on the other of the non-existence of 'Humanity,' Deity ought in fairness to have at least the
benefit of the doubt. In selection for adoration, that which only perhaps may be, at any rate
deserves to be, preferred to that which positively is not. The excess of superstition with
which St. Paul reproached the Athenians, for raising an altar to the 'Unknown God,' looks like
excessive circumspection, beside the solemn dedication of temples to a chimera known not to
be. Nay, even Isaiah's maker of graven images is at length outdone. For he has at least before
him a visible tangible block of wood, not the mere memory of one that has long ago rotted,
nor the dream of one that is yet to grow, whereas that mental figment, Consecrated Humanity,
is not even a real shadow, but only a fancied one, a shadow cast by no substance. And it is
to Comtists of all people--intellectual salt of the earth as they are--that this figment is
recommended for adoration--yes, to those who, pharisaically standing aloof from the common
herd, thank their imaginary substitute for God, or whatever else it is they deem thankworthy,
that they are not blind as other men are, and least of all as those dazed metaphysicians who
actually personify their own mental abstractions. No wonder that such extreme provocation should
try the patience of all but the stanchest disciples. No wonder that Mr. Lewes himself should
seem half inclined to apostrophise his quondam master in words resembling those once addressed
to Robespierre, 'Avec ton Grand Être, tu commences à m'embêter.'

Here make we one more pause. This chapter's theme is, as was betimes premised, not the strength
of theism, but the weakness of atheism. I have in it attempted to execute a design which, according
to Boswell, was conceived by Lord Hailes, and approved by Dr. Johnson, that of writing an essay,
Sur la crédulité des incrédules, and I think I have succeeded so far as to show that, if any
one who can swallow atheism affects to strain at theism, it cannot, at any rate, be for want
of a sufficiently capacious gullet.

FOOTNOTES:

[36] The story was thus told by Diderot, to Sir Samuel Romilly, when a young man:--'Je vous
dirai un trait de lui, mais il vous sera un peu scandaleux peut-être, car vous autres Anglais,
vous croyez un peu en Dieu; pour nous autres, nous n'y croyons guères. Hume dîna dans une grande
compagnie avec le baron D'Holbach.

[37] 'Studies in Animal Life,' chap. v.

[38] The reader who, having skipped some of the earlier chapters, may find this language obscure,
is requested to turn back to the essay on 'Huxleyism,' pp. 194-6.

[39] See again, pp. 194-6.

[40] 'Mr. Darwin's Hypotheses.' Part II. 'Fortnightly Review' for June 1868.

[41] 'Origin of Species,' p. 226.

[42] Of this treatise, no English or French translation has, I believe, been published. For
my own very limited acquaintance with it, I am indebted to the extreme kindness of my friend,
Professor Croom Robertson, who has most obligingly favoured me with a manuscript version of
the portion referred to in the text.

[43] 'Lay Sermons,' p. 240.

[44] 'Beauties of the Anti-Jacobin,' 1799, pp. 214-6.

[45] 'Auguste Comte and Positivism,' passim.

[46] 'History of Philosophy,' 4th edition, vol. ii. pp. 654-735.

[47] Not that so restricted a meaning can, with any propriety, be placed on positivist definitions
of law. See, for instance, that of Mr. Lewes ('History of Philosophy,' vol. ii. p. 701), who
defines law to be 'the invariable relation between two distinct phenomena, according to which
one depends on the other.'

[48] Some few additional random remarks, however, though not permissible in the text may, perhaps,
be less inappropriate in a note.

My scientific deficiencies do not prevent my understanding or, at least, fancying I understand,
that Comte's famous 'Classification of the Sciences' may be extremely serviceable as indicating
in what order the sciences may most profitably be studied. That a student's general progress
would be swifter and surer if, before entering on physics or chemistry, he had already made
considerable progress in algebra, geometry, and mechanics, than if he commenced all five sciences
simultaneously, seems probable enough. If, however, the classification be intended also to
indicate historically the order in which the sciences have actually been studied, I cannot
but suspect it to be misleading. Certainly, if knowledge of number was the earliest knowledge
acquired by man, those savage races which have not even yet learnt how to count beyond four,
must have been content with very few lessons in arithmetic when turning off to other branches
of learning.

As to the measure of success that attended Comte's scheme of creating a Philosophy of General
Science, I presume not to utter one syllable of my own, preferring to cite what Mr. Mill says
of that 'wonderful systematization of the philosophy of all the antecedent sciences from mathematics
to physiology, which, if he had done nothing else, would have stamped him on all minds competent
to appreciate it as one of the principal thinkers of the age.' In all sincerity, I say that
the mere conception of the enterprise, whose vastness is so luminously expounded by Mr. Lewes,
in the last edition of his 'History of Philosophy,' seems to me to betoken superior genius.
I feel, as it were, simply awe-struck in the presence of an intellectual ambition, that within
the brief span of one human life could aspire to a mastery over all the sciences, sufficient,
first for co-ordinating the fundamental truths and special methods, and so obtaining the philosophy
of each, and then for co-ordinating the manifold philosophies so obtained, and--by condensing
them all into one homogeneous doctrine, and blending them into one organic whole, whereof each
part would be seen to depend on all that preceded, and to determine all that succeeded--transforming
all science into philosophy.

One point however remains on which I shall speak with some confidence, that, namely, of the
inclusion among 'Comte's titles to immortal fame' of the creation of a Science of Sociology.
'What the law of gravitation is to astronomy, what the elementary properties of tissues are
to physiology,' that, says Mr. Lewes, in the opinion of Comte's disciples, 'is the law of the
three stages to sociology.' But if, as I have shown, there are not really three but only two
stages, the so-called third stage being simply a return to either the second or the first,
the law of the three stages cannot be much of a law, nor the science of which it is the essence
much of a science.

Mr. Lewes, nevertheless, maintains that M. Comte created Social Science. Mr. Mill considers
that he did not create it, but only proved its creation to be possible. With all possible deference,
I submit that what he really did was to prove its creation to be impossible.

In a passage of Mr. Mill's 'Positivism,' quoted with approval in Mr. Lewes's 'History of Philosophy,'
and presumably, therefore, expressing the sentiments of both writers, Comte is described as
pronouncing inappropriate to the Science of Society, the method universally admitted to be
proper to all other sciences--that, namely, of obtaining by induction the laws of the elementary
phenomena, then, from these laws thinking out deductively those of the complex phenomena, and,
finally, of verifying by specific observation the laws obtained by deduction. Among social
phenomena, he is described as arguing, the elementary ones are human feelings and actions,
the laws of which are the laws of universal human nature. But the human beings, on the laws
of whose nature social facts depend, are not abstract or universal, but historical human beings,
already shaped and made what they are, not by the simple tendencies of universal human nature,
but by the accumulated influence of past generations of human society. This being the case,
the laws of universal human nature evidently cannot serve as materials, whence it would be
possible for any powers of deduction, starting from the bare conception of the Being Man, to
predict beforehand how successive generations of men would feel and act. Wherefore, in order
to get at social laws, we must reverse the ordinary method, seizing upon any generalizations
which the facts of history, empirically considered, will supply, and then using the universal
laws of human nature for the verification of these generalizations.

I will not linger over the glaring inconsistency involved in the conclusion thus arrived at,
of appealing, for the verification of empirical generalizations, to a species of deduction
confessed to be impracticable for want of the requisite materials. I prefer to show that from
Comte's own premises, as rendered by Mr. Mill, necessarily results a separate conclusion, absolutely
fatal to his sociologically creative pretensions. According to him, as we have seen, the laws
of elementary social facts, or of human actions and feelings, are the laws of universal human
nature, which latter can, of course, be no other than whatever habits of invariably, in given
circumstances, feeling and acting in given modes, may be common to all mankind. But it is admitted
that the particular generation of human beings at any time existing must, by the accumulated
influence of preceding generations, have been rendered very different from every preceding
generation: and nothing is more certain than that two generations differing widely from each
other in character, would, in many given circumstances, not only not feel and act in precisely
the same, but would inevitably feel and act in widely different, manners. Nor is this all.
The circumstances by which any generation is surrounded have been partly shaped for it by preceding
generations, partly modified by itself--so that it is not possible for any two generations
ever to find themselves in the same circumstances. Wherefore, as there never can be a repetition
of either men or of circumstances precisely the same, it is manifestly impossible for any habits
of feeling and thinking, in given modes in given circumstances, to be common to any two generations
of men, still less to universal mankind. In other words, there cannot possibly be any laws
of human nature: and if no laws of human nature, then no laws of elementary social facts; and
if no laws of elementary social facts, then no laws of complex social facts; and if no laws
of social facts, elementary or complex, then no single particle of material wherewith to build
up the Science of Society or Sociology.

[49] 'Auguste Comte and Positivism,' pp. 133-4.

CHAPTER VI.

LIMITS OF DEMONSTRABLE THEISM.

     Thought without Reverence is barren.

'I wouldn't mind,' said once a representative of extreme heterodoxy, in debate with a champion
of its diametrical opposite--'I wouldn't mind conceding the Deity you contend for, were it
not for the use commonly made of him after he is conceded.' And no doubt that use is such as
might well provoke a saint, provided the saint were likewise a philosopher. To whatever extent
it be true that man was created in the image of God, it is certain that in all ages and countries
God has been created in the image of man, invested with all human propensities, appetites,
and passions, and expected to demean himself on all occasions as men would do in like circumstances.
As popularly conceived, so long as sensual gratification was esteemed to be the summum bonum,
he wallowed in all manner of sensual lust; when some of his more fervent worshippers turned
ascetics out of disgust with fleshly surfeit, he became ascetism personified: at every stage
his great delight has been flattery, and his still greater, revenge; in the exercise of power
he has always been capricious and often wanton--ruthlessly vindictive against impugners of
his honour and dignity, unspeakably barbarous to unbelievers in his reality. Now, as knowledge
advanced, unbelief in a God so much below the level of ordinarily virtuous men advanced equally,
quickening its pace, too, as the particular branch of knowledge styled 'physics' spread, and,
spreading, exposed the utter impossibility of many of the fables in which theological views
had been expressed. Wherefore, theological oracles have in every age and country been apt to
confound scientific inquisitiveness with unbelief, and to denounce physical science especially
as a delusion and a snare, and its cultivators as impostors none the less mischievous for being
at the same time dupes. Of course, the latter have not been slow to return the compliment.
Hearing the truths discovered by them stigmatised as falsehoods, they naturally enough retorted
the charge of falsity against the divine authorities in whose name it was made. Finding war
waged against them by every religion with which they were acquainted, they naturally enough
in turn declared war against all religion, even with that form thereof which underlies every
other except when sufficing to itself for superstructure as well as base. Natural enough this,
for humanum est errare; but very humanly erroneous withal, for to include Deity itself in the
same denial with pseudo-divine attributes is about as sagacious a proceeding as to refuse to
recognise the sun at midday on account of his not appearing in Phoebus's chariot and four.

When religion on the defensive declares herself opposed to reason, so much the worse for religion.
She is thereby virtually surrendering at discretion, since to appeal to her only other resource--revelation--is
to beg the whole subject in dispute. Similarly, the worse and still less excusable is it for
science to declare herself irreconcileable with religion, for she, too, is thereby slighting
reason. It is only by forsaking the single guide in whom she professes to trust, and blindly
giving herself up to angry prejudice, that she can fail to discover the rational solidity of
so much of every religion as consists of theism.

For this, as we have seen, the argument from design abundantly suffices, although the only
absolute certainty thence deducible be that the universe must have an author or authors fully
equal to its original construction, its subsequent development, and its continued maintenance.
Even if it be not inconceivable, notwithstanding that the chances to the contrary be many times
infinity to one, that the mere restlessness of some utterly unintelligent force may have fabricated
all material structures, and imparted to all their movements certain orderly successions, it
is still manifestly impossible for unintelligence to have brought forth intelligence--for the
speculative, critical, carping spirit of man to have been generated by that which has no speculation
in its eyes, nor any eyes, to have speculation in; impossible, in short, for the creature to
be more richly endowed than its creator. Since numerous embodied intelligences actually exist,
they must have been preceded by intelligence capable of creating them and all other existing
intelligences that have not eternally existed; and it is simply impossible that creative intelligence,
whose creatures owe to it whatever intelligence they possess, should on any occasion have exhibited
a want of intelligence which they are competent to detect.

But although it be thus demonstrably certain that an author of the universe exists, it does
not follow that there is only one. As to this no proof positive, only probabilities, can be
adduced; but the probabilities are of an amount all but equivalent to certainty. They are forcibly
urged by Mr. Mill. Many exactly uniform occurrences, he observes, are more naturally referred
to 'a single, than to a number of wills precisely accordant.' But the classes of uniform occurrences
being exceedingly numerous, if there were a separate will for each class, there would be equally
numerous wills, and 'unless all these wills were in complete harmony (which would itself be
the most difficult to credit of all cases of invariability, and would require beyond anything
else the ascendancy of a supreme Deity),' it would be 'impossible that the course of phenomena
under their government should be invariable.' Every fresh appearance of resemblance extending
through all nature 'affords fresh presumption that the whole is the work, not of many, but
of the same hand, and renders it vastly more probable that there should be one indefinitely
foreseeing Intelligence and immoveable Will than that there should be hundreds and thousands
of such.'[50] I will not run the risk of weakening this reasoning by expansion. Its obvious
inference that, there being a God, there cannot be more than one, could not be set forth more
irresistibly.

That the wisdom of the Creator cannot be less than the amount thereof manifested in His works
is a self-evident proposition, which none will be hardy enough directly to dispute. There is,
however, one critic, of great ability and yet greater daring, who appears to doubt whether
the wisdom manifested in the universe is anything to speak of. Mr. Lewes' faculty of veneration
is, I suspect, but imperfectly developed, since 'the succession of phases which each (animal)
embryo is forced to pass through,' is sufficient to give its action pause. Would there be a
chorus of applause from the Institute of Architects, and favourable notices in the newspapers
of this profound wisdom?'[51]

Notwithstanding the exulting tone in which these questions are put, and which seems to imply
that in their proposer's opinion they are unanswerable, they may, I think, be very summarily
disposed of. Whatever other comments might be made on the conduct of an architect who should
build in the complex manner suggested, surely the very last thing said would be that he did
not know how to build in simpler wise. His having actually built a palace would be decisive
proof of his knowing how to build a palace; and of all queer reasons for questioning his possession
of that much architectural knowledge, about the queerest would be the fact of his having built,
not a palace only, but a hut and cottage in addition. And if, adopting a still more complicated
style, he should begin by so constructing a hut that, if left to itself, it would draw up brick
and mortar from the earth, and grow into a cottage, and then go on growing and adding storey
to storey till it became a palace, this surely would be a proof not of less, but of infinitely
more, architectural knowledge than if he had commenced and completed the palace with his own
hands. Not unwarrantably, perhaps, may Mr. Lewes, reflecting that his own and every other human
organism's genesis has consisted of at least three stages, oval, foetal, and infantine, wonder
why he was not formed all at once, 'as Eve was mythically affirmed to be taken from Adam's
rib, and Minerva from Jupiter's head,' and why he was not brought forth full dressed in an
indefinitely expansible suit of clothes. Not quite inexcusably, perhaps, might he conceive
the reason to be some mere whim or humour of his Maker, though there might be more gratitude
in conjecturing that the triple process was adopted for the purpose of assisting biological
enquirers like himself in their special researches. From so practised a logician, however,
about the very last thing to have been here expected was that he should suggest creative 'ignorance
and incompetence' as the only apparent alternative to denying a Creator altogether, as if incapacity
for a comparatively easy process were a likely reason for choosing one greatly more difficult.
It might have occurred to Mr. Lewes that, if there were any absurdity in the choice, the Being
who made him and bestowed on him the faculty of perceiving the absurdity, could not have failed
himself likewise to perceive it and consequently to avoid it.

Of divine power, the measure or measurelessness is obviously identical with that of divine
wisdom. Both attributes must be at least co-extensive with the universe; both consequently
illimitable. Divine goodness, moreover, inasmuch as the creature's moral ideal cannot be superior
to his Creator's, must be at least as vast as human imagination: God must be at least as good
as man can conceive Him. But how, by goodness so transcending, conjoined with immeasurable
might, can the co-existence of evil be tolerated? To this last, and perhaps greatest, among
the many great questions brought forward for renewed discussion in these pages, I have long
had by me an attempt at a reply, which, finding myself unable either to strengthen or shorten
it by turning it into prose, I venture to submit in its original rhythmical form.

  A Voice came to me as I sate apart,
    Pondering the burthen of life's mystery,
    In dim perplexity, with troubled heart.
  With whisper weak and faint it came to me,
    Like feeble glimmer of the struggling moon
    To wildered mariner on midnight sea:
  With whisper weak at first, but strengthening soon,
    Like the moon's beam when filmy clouds disperse,
    And through my scattered doubts, with quiet tune,
  Uttering in clear, apocalyptic verse,
    Truth, which for comfort and monition sent,
    E'en as the voice revealed, do I rehearse.

  'What art thou? Whence derived? With what intent
    Placed where perpetual hindrances exhaust
    Thy wasted strength, in baffled effort spent?
  Where in blind maze, with crafty windings crossed,
    With stumbling-blocks beset, with pitfalls strewed,
    Thou wanderest, in endless error lost;
  Athirst beside glad rivers that elude,
    With mocking lapse, thy tantalized pursuit,
    And hungering where gilded husks delude
  With bitter ashes as of Dead Sea fruit,
    Ashes of Hope, but seed of Discontent,
    That rears its upas growth from blighted root?
  Around, thou hear'st Creation eloquent,
    Hymning creative attributes, and seest
    The starry marvels of the firmament,
  And marvels of the nearer earth, released
    By impulse from within, not dimly shown,
    Nor plainlier in the greatest than the least:
  And, through the known discovering the unknown,
    Acknowledgest thy Maker, power supreme,
    Might, and dominion, deeming His alone.
  Nor His the lax dominion mayst thou deem
    That builds up empire, and when built, neglects.
    Lo! where, afar, sidereal orbits gleam,
  What first impelled, impelling still, directs:
    Urges and guides each solar chariot,
    The mundane mass of every globe connects,
  By its own energy cohering not,
    E'en as dead leaves, decaying languidly,
    Not from themselves derive the force to rot.

  'All-strengthening, all-sustaining Deity,
    Diffused throughout the infinite, abides,
    Dwells and upholds:--then, haply, dwells in thee?
  Yea, verily. Within thy frame resides
    What, by its movement only mayst thou know.
    The circling blood, thy being's ambient tides,
  Is't thine own will that bids them ebb and flow,
    And from their inundating flood depose
    Organic germs, whence health and vigour grow?
  Yet though such witness serve thee to disclose
    In human tenement divine abode,
    Not thine be the material creed that shows
  The spirit's birthplace in the moulded clod;
    Not thine the pantheist raving, that because
    God dwelleth with thee, thou thyself art God.
  Bethink thee--is't self-reverence that o'erawes
    Thy prostrate soul, and from thy faltering tongue,
    Subdued, involuntary homage draws?
  And when by harrowing pang thine heart is wrung,
    Is't for self-aid thy wandering eyes inquire,
    Heavenward, at length, in fervid suppliance flung?
  And from thy native slough of sensual mire,
    Is't to the mark of thine own purity
    Thy loftier aims and holier hopes aspire?
  Harshly thy fleshly fetters bear on thee,
    In dark and dreary prison-house confined,
    Cramped and diseased with long captivity,
  And hath divine Intelligence designed
    That noisome dungeon for her own restraint--
    By her own act to galling bonds consigned,--
  Self-doomed, with wilful purpose, to acquaint
    Herself with sin and sorrow, and pollute
    Æthereal essence with corporeal taint?
  How doth thy helpless misery confute
    That frantic boast of vain conceit, untaugh
    The paltriest of its plans to execute!

  Hast thou the art to add, by taking thought,
    One cubit to thy stature? and hast thou,
    Or such as thou, Nature's whole fabric wrought?
  Not thine such vaunt--not thine to disavow
    The lustre of thy genuine origin.
    To the Most Highest, as thine author, bow
  With rapture of exulting faith, wherein
    Devotion's cravings their desire achieve,
    The bright ideal that they imaged, win.
  Rejoice that thus 'tis given thee to believe,--
    To recognise transcending majesty,
    Worthy all praise--all honour to receive:
  Rejoice in that high presence, gratefully
    Offering the vows that thy full heart dilate:
    Rejoice that thence there floweth light, whereby
  Thy emulative quest to elevate
    Thitherward, where unblemished holiness
    Irradiates sovereignty, benign as great.

  'But here thou pausest, scrupling to confess
    A providence of aspect all benign.
    Fear not that sceptic scruple to express.
  Of truth, Almighty Goodness could assign
    Good only to the work of His own hand,
    Warmed into life by His own breath divine:
  And, where unchecked Beneficence had planned
    A home for creatures of a fragile race,
    Evoked from nothingness at His command,
  Nor care, nor want, nor anguish should have place,
    Nor fraud betray, nor violence oppress,
    Nor hate inflame, nor wallowing lust debase,
  Nor aught be found, save what conspired to bless
    The sentient clay, wrought surely for that end,--
    For wherefore wrought, if not for happiness?

  'Not, as some teach, for mastery to contend
    With fate,--in doubtful conflict to engage,--
    Struggling, in pain and peril, to ascend
  Slowly, through this probationary stage,
    Sore let, but tried and chastened, and thereby
    Earning on earth a heavenly heritage.

  Was there then need that prescience should try,
    By ordeal pitiless, assured event,
    Disclosed beforehand to prophetic eye?
  Need was there, by austere experiment,
    To test the frailty and the fall foreknown
    Of man, beneath o'erwhelming burthen bent?
  In this was tutelar prevision shown?
    Hardly may he, in such belief confide,
    Who sees his fellow myriads left to groan
  In barren penance, without light or guide,
    E'en from their birth by fostering vice controlled,
    Doomed as they cross life's threshold--doomed untried.

  'As hardly, too, may he the dogma hold
    That fetters reason with a graduate chain
    Of beings, linked in order manifold,
  Where, to each link, 'tis given to sustain
    A part subservient to the general weal,--
    Duly to share the mutual burthen's strain:--
  Though who from such allotment would appeal,
    Could it be truth that wisdom's masterpiece
    Such aid could lack, such feebleness conceal,
  Suing its own constituents for release
    From wrong innate, throughout its texture wove,
    By hard necessity, not light caprice?
  But to what purport could premonished Love
    A system twined with mutual suffering weave,
    When but a word all suffering would remove?
  And wherefore yet delayeth the reprieve
    Of Love, that doth not willingly afflict
    Its children, neither wantonly aggrieve?
  Can aught the gracious purpose interdict
    Of Him, whose piercing eye, whose boundless sway,
    No cloud can dim, no barrier restrict?
  Say'st thou, "By path inscrutable, and way
    Past finding out, perchance, may mercy bend
    To its own use, whate'er its course would stay,
  And through the labouring world high mandate send
    That all things work together unto good,
    Work, though by means corrupt, to righteous end?"

  Beware how such conjectures must conclude.
    Can means impure Omnipotence befit,
    And clog the range of its solicitude?
  Can finite bonds confine the Infinite?
    Though man, by choice of ill, must needs offend,
    Need God do ill that good may come of it?
  Must havoc's mad typhoon perforce descend?
    May naught else serve to fan the stagnant air?
    Must captive flame earth's quaking surface rend,
  Or seek escape in lava flood? and ere
    Effete society new structure raise,
    Must dearth or pestilence the ground prepare?
  Thus is it that a parent's care purveys
    His bounty, and, exacting rigorously
    The price in tears, each boon's full cost defrays?
  Thus, with vain thrift withholding the decree,
    That from his treasury's exhaustless store
    To all could grant unbought felicity?

  'But haply still 'tis reasoned (and with more
    Of reason's semblance were the plea maintained),
    That higher yet would life's ambition soar,
  Not for mere scheme of happiness ordained,
    But for advance in virtue,--for the growth
    By patient zeal and meek endurance gained:
  That, at the table of voluptuous sloth,
    Though banqueted on sweets without alloy,
    Unsated were a generous nature, loth
  To feast where unearned lusciousness would cloy,
    Faint with the tedium of unbroken rest,
    Sick with the sameness of unruffled joy:
  That for more poignant pleasure, and of zest
    Heightened and edged by healthful exercise,--
    For scope wherein her conscious strength to test
  In keen pursuit and venturous enterprise,
    For dear exemplars, in whose course serene
    Affection's tearful warmth might sympathise,
  For these the yearning mind would languish, e'en
    Though with all else that wish could name endued,
    While, in her striving for self-discipline,
  Foiled, and with fervid impulses imbued
    Vainly, where neither aught could valour dare
    Nor aught confront and challenge fortitude:
  And where no outward token could declare
    The hidden worth congenial heart would hail,
    Hail with each kindred chord vibrating there;d
  Since virtue wakes not but when griefs assail,
    Or travail burthens, or temptations try,
    Slumbering supine, till roused by adverse gale,
  In the deep sleep of moral lethargy,
    Joy's fullest cup, by hope or doubt unstirred,
    Curdling the while to dull satiety.

  'Thus haply some have reasoned, undeterred
    By reasoning, with equal emphasis
    But counter aim, as readily preferred:
  Since Heaven's perfection striveth not, nor is
    In peril lest it lapse to apathy,
    Or lassitude invade its tranquil bliss.
  And were it as they deem, and righteously
    Were man adjudged with his brow's sweat to eat
    Bread leavened with embittering misery,
  E'en then affliction's measure to complete,
    Amply might pain, and want, and death suffice,
    And feeling's blight, and baffled love's defeat,
  And, on the altar of self-sacrifice,
    Hope's withered blooms by resignation laid:
    Nor were it needed that incarnate vice,
  In human mould, in the same image made,
    Trampled with iron hoof his fellow man,
    Virtue's chastised development to aid.
  For whence was Vice derived? Ere life began,
    For His own offspring could their Maker trace
    Their loathsome office, and beneath his ban
  Place them, accurst (creating to debase),
    And doom as fuel for the flames that test
    A favoured few, elect by partial grace?

  Elect or outcast--if alike confessed
    Of the same parent, sons--brethren who bear
    No differing lineaments, save those imprest
  By his prevision--in their parent's care
    Should not all be partakers? Should not all
    Freely, alike, his nurturing guidance share?
  Are any worthier? 'Tis that warning's call
    Extends to them alone--'tis that to them
    Alone is given vigour, wherewithal
  Temptation's fraudful violence to stem--
    And how shall He, who needful strength denies,
    Weakness for its predestined fall condemn?
  How, when the creature of His wrath replies
    With feeble wail and inarticulate moan,
    The sighing of that contrite heart despise?
  What man amongst thy fellows hast thou known
    Who, if his son ask fish, will jeeringly
    Give him a serpent, or for bread a stone?
  If ye, being evil, at your children's cry
    Know how to give good gifts, should not much more
    Your heavenly Father His good things supply
  To them who ask Him? Should He not restore
    A cleansed heart within them, and renew
    An upright spirit? not, what they implore
  Reversing, and restraining, lest they do
    The good they would,--constraining them withal
    To do the evil they would fain eschew?
  How wilt thou to the same original
    Whence all just thoughts and pure desires proceed,
    Impute corrupt imaginings, whose thrall
  Enslaves anew the soul but newly freed
    From their pollution? Can a hybrid growth
    Arise spontaneous from unmingled seed?
  Are grapes upon the bramble borne, or doth
    The fig bear olive berries? Canst thou show
    Twin waters, sweet and bitter, issuing both
  From the same fountain? Neither should there flow
    Blessing and cursing from one mouth, nor yet
    From the same Providence both weal and woe.

  'Vile as thou art, ofttimes in thee have met
    Mercy and Truth--and Peace and Righteousness
    Have kissed each other; and thine heart is set
  Ofttimes to follow what is just, redress
    Where thou hast trespassed, rendering; ofttimes, too,
    Forgiving other's trespass: to distress
  Thou grudgest not its sympathetic due
    Of kindly deed, or word, or mutual tears,
    Nor in vain wholly labourest to subdue
  The hydra host whose foul miasm blears
    Thy vision, and the distant gleam obscures
    That dimly through thy prison casement peers.
  E'en to the darkened dungeon that immures
    Thy soul, some feeble glimmer finds its way.
    Crushed beneath earthly durance, still endures
  Some lingering fire below that weight of clay,
    Some generous zeal, some honest hardihood,
    Some faith--some charity.--And whence are they?
  If not of Him whose quickening breath endued
    All things with life,--and, when he looked upon
    What He had made, beheld that all was good:
  All good,--but chiefly man, in whom alone
    Some likeness of Himself--some clouded light,
    From His own countenance reflected, shone.
  Doth not the sun outshine the satellite?
    And shall not He who in the murkiest hour
    Of sin's defilement, streaks thy dreary night
  With beams that bid thee, lower yet and lower
    Descending, hope, perchance, to rise again,--
    Say--shall not He in holiness as power
  Transcend the creature whom His gifts sustain!
    And here, if sneering casuist blaspheme,
    And to divided nature's sovereign,
  Ascribe, in nature's opposite extreme
    Like eminence, and nature's God aver
    In evil, even as in good, supreme,--
  Heed not, or ask if man's Artificer
    With His own work, in virtue matched, can prove
    At once more holy and unholier?

  'Yet since all good is fruit of love, and love
    Worketh no ill, how still doth ill abound?
    Is't haply that with love a rival strove?

  Mark well this parable. In chosen ground
    Only good seed a husbandman had sown,
    Yet when the blade sprang up, therewith he found
  Tares that amid the stifled wheat had grown.
    Then knew he well, how, entering unawares,
    This, while men slept, an enemy had done.
  And 'tis an enemy who, scattering tares
    Amid the corn sown in Creation's field,
    With deadly coil the growing plant ensnares.
  And no mean enemy, nor one unsteeled
    For bold defiance, nor reduced to cower
    Ever in covert ambuscade concealed,
  But at whose hest the ravening hell-hounds scour
    A wasted world, while himself prowls to seek,
    Like roaring lion, whom he may devour,
  And upon whom his rancorous wrath to wreak,
    Sniffing the tainted steam of slaughter's breath,
    And lulled by agony's despairing shriek.
  For it is he who hath the power of death,
    Even the devil, by whom entereth sin
    Into the world, and death engendereth:
  Yea! by whom entereth whatsoe'er within
    Warreth against the spirit,--sordid greed,
    Pride, carnal lust, envy to lust akin,
  And malice, and deceit, whose treacheries breed
    Strife between brethren, and the faith o'erthrow
    Of many, and the duped deserters lead,
  Beneath the banner of their deadliest foe,
    In rebel arms a Parent to defy,
    Whom, by His gifts alone, His children know.

  'Not less that Parent marks with pitying eye
    The blinded rage that rivets its own chain:
    Not less to His own glorious liberty
  Seeks, from corruption's bondage, to regain
    His erring children,--by device, or lewd,
    Or threatening, lured, or goaded to their bane:
  Not less to overcome evil with good
    Labours, and shall therewith all things subdue
    Unto Himself--but hath not yet subdued.

  And wherefore? wherefore tarrieth He, while through
    Eden, by daring foray oft defaced,
    Marauding fiends malignant raid pursue,
  Winging the turbid whirlwind's frantic haste,
    Pointing the levin's arrowy effluence,
    Over the mildewed harvest's hungry waste,
  Breathing the fetid breath of pestilence,
    And crying havoc to the dogs of war,
    Let slip on unresisting innocence?
  Why suffereth He that thus a rival mar
    His cherished work--through devastated fields
    Borne on triumphant in ensanguined car?--
  Him, who with power to rescue, tamely yields
    His helpless charge to persecuting hate,
    Nor His own offspring from the torturer shields,
  But sits aloof, callously obdurate,
    While but the will is lacking to redeem,--
    Him, how shall fitting stigma designate?

  'But 'tis not thus thy calmer doubts esteem
    The loving-kindness that with open hand
    Dispenses bounty in perennial stream.
  Oft hast thou proved, while in a foreign land
    A sojourner, as all thy fathers were,
    Thou pacest painfully the barren sand,
  How o'er thy path watches a Comforter,
    And scatters manna daily for thy food,
    And bids the smitten rocks that barrier
  The arid track, well out with gurgling flood,
    And oft to shade of green oasis leads,
    And, from pursuer thirsting for thy blood,
  Such scanty shelter as is thine provides:
    And though full oft that shelter fails, and though
    Its torn defence demoniac glee derides,
  Yet not for this the cheerful faith forego,
    That memory of uncounted benefits
    And conscious instinct's still, small tones bestow.
  Charge not thy God with aught that unbefits
    Tenderest compassion, nor believe that He
    With hardened apathetic scorn commits
  A favoured people throughout life to be
    Subject to bondage. Doubt not of His will
    To rescue from that galling tyranny.
  Yet, if in His despite creation still
    In thraldom groan and travail--what remains?
    What but that strength is wanting to fulfil
  His scheme of mercy? What but that He reigns,
    Not as sole wielder of omnipotence,
    But, o'er a world unconquered yet, maintains
  Encounter with opposing influence,
    Which He shall surely quell, but which can stay,
    Awhile unquelled, His mightier providence.

  'And doth this sadden only, or dismay?
    Grieves it that He, whose follower thou art,
    Rules not supreme with unresisted sway?
  Or that, the progress of His grace to thwart,
    Satanic might the host of hell arrays?
    And doth it not a thrill of joy impart
  That not alone need barren prayer and praise
    Thine homage be,--thy choicest offering
    The formal dues prescribed obedience pays?
  Henceforth with firmer step approach thy King.
    Some puny succour, thou, in thy degree,
    Some feeble aid, thou, even thou, mayst bring!
  In the fell conflict raging ceaselessly
    Around, thou, too, mayst join--thou, too, engage
    In that dread feud, twin with eternity,
  Which faithful angels and archangels wage
    Against the powers of darkness, to extend,
    O'er realms retained in demon vassalage,
  Their sovereign's pure dominion,--and to blend
    All worlds beneath one righteous governance,
    Into one kingdom which shall have no end.

  'Wouldst thou, if haply so thou mayst, advance
    That blessed consummation? Wouldst thou speed
    The lingering hour of Earth's deliverance?
  Arise--the naked clothe, the hungry feed,
    The sick and wounded tend,--soothe the distressed.
    If thy weak arm cannot protect, yet plead
  With bold rebuke the cause of the oppressed,
    Kindling hot shame in Mammon's votaries,
    Abashed, at least, in lucre's grovelling quest;
  And, in the toil-worn serf, a glad surprise
    Awakening--when, from brute despondency,
    Taught to look up to heaven with dazzled eyes.--
  Thus mayst thou do God service,--thus apply
    Thyself, within thy limit, to abate
    What wickedness thou seest, or misery:
  Thus, in a Sacred Band, associate
    New levies, from the adverse ranks of Sin
    Converted,--against Sin confederate.
  Or--if by outward act to serve, or win
    Joint followers to the standard of thy Lord,
    Thy lot forbid,--turn, then, thy thought within:
  Be each recess of thine own breast explored:
    There, o'er thy passions be thy victories won:
    There, be the altar of thy faith restored,
  And thou, a living sacrifice, thereon
    Present thyself.--This ever mayst thou do,
    Nor, doing this, wilt aught have left undone.'

  Here ceased the Voice, commissioned to renew
    Truth, which, of old, when Bactrian sage began
    Nature's dim maze to thread with slenderest clue,
  Its doubtful scope and dark design to scan,
    With inward whisper, hopeful witness bare,
    And justified the ways of God to man.
  And suddenly its warning ceased, but ere
    It ceased, the scales had fallen from my eyes,
    And I beheld, and shall I not declare
  What my uncurtained vision testifies?
    Shall coward lips the word of life suppress?
    The oracle vouchsafed from Heaven disguise?
  Nay, as one crying in the wilderness,
    Where none else hearken, to the vacant air
    And stolid mountains utters his distress,
  E'en so will I too cry aloud, 'Prepare
    Before Him the Lord's way. Make His path straight,'
    Nor heed though none regard me, nor forbear
  Though all revile, but patiently await
    Till, like light breath that panting meads exhale,
    And scornful zephyrs lightly dissipate,
  But which, full surely, down the echoing vale,
    Shall roll with sounding current, swift and loud,
    My slighted message likewise shall prevail,
  Entering the heart of many a mourner, bowed
    Beneath despair, and with inspiring voice
    Calling to hope to cleave her midnight cloud,
  And bidding grief, in hope's new dawn, rejoice.

This is a creed which long since came to me after earnest inward communings, and which, though
subsequent reflection has in some few particulars modified it, I still in substance hold, clinging
to it with a grateful consciousness of ever-multiplying obligations. For in it the soul has
free scope for its loftiest aspirations and its widest and deepest sympathies, strongest incentives
to zeal, surest guidance for activity, solace in every distress, support under every difficulty,
added cause for exultation in every success, renewed resolution in every defeat. Still, it
is here offered, not as ascertained truth, but merely as a sample of those guesses at truth
by which alone ordinary mortals need hope to promote the common cause of humanity in any of
its higher bearings. Such guesses, however, when harmonising with all the conditions of their
subject-matter, may fairly claim to be provisionally regarded as truths--nay, to be adopted
as working hypotheses until superseded by new hypotheses capable of doing the same work better;
in which supercession none ought to rejoice, nor, if sincere truth-seekers, will rejoice, more
cordially than the propounders of the discredited doctrines. It is in this spirit and with
these reservations that the articles of faith above recited are submitted for consideration.
How much soever they may fall short of the truth, they are, I feel, in the absence of any nearer
approach to the truth, capable of rendering excellent service. However faintly and hazily the
outlines of Deity be shown in them, the Deity whom they so imperfectly delineate is yet one
to whom may justly be ascribed glory in the highest, one worthy of all trust, love, and adoration--of
an adoration, too, inclusive not more of praise than prayer.

If the divine claim to the last-named tribute be disputed, it had better be by arguments other
than those on which certain writers, with Mr. Galton for their leader and Professor Tyndall
for their backer, have been recently expending much misapplied ingenuity. If the efficacy of
prayer be, as the foremost of these declares it to be, 'a perfectly appropriate and legitimate
subject of scientific enquiry,' the enquiry ought at least to be conducted according to scientific
rules. On this point Mr. Galton himself lays much stress, intimating that whereas an unscientific
reasoner may be expected to be 'guided by a confused recollection of crude experience, a scientific
reasoner will scrutinise each separate experience before he admits it as evidence, and will
compare all the cases he has selected on a methodical system.' Nevertheless, a brief examination
of the experiences on which he and his principal associate rely, may suggest some doubt as
to which of the two specified classes of reasoners it is that they themselves belong.

The facts or fancies cited by Mr. Galton in proof that praying is of no use are the following:
1. 'Sick people who pray or are prayed for do not on the average recover more rapidly than
others.' 2. Although 'the public prayer for the sovereign of every state, Protestant or Catholic,
is and has been in the spirit of our own--"Grant her in health long to live"--sovereigns are
literally the shortest-lived of all persons who have the advantage of affluence.' 3. The 'clergy
are a far more prayerful class' than either lawyers or medical men, it being 'their profession
to pray,' and 'their practice that of offering morning and evening family prayers in addition
to their private devotions,' yet 'we do not find that the clergy are in any way more long-lived
in consequence;' rather, there is room for believing their class to be the 'shortest-lived
of the three.' Nay, even missionaries, eminently prayerful as they are themselves, and prayed
for as they are with especial earnestness by others, 'are not supernaturally endowed with health,'
and 'do not live longer than other people.' 4. 'The proportion of deaths at the time of birth
is identical among the children of the praying and the non-praying classes.' 5. Though 'we
pray in our Liturgy that "the nobility may be endowed with grace, wisdom, and understanding,"'
our 'nobility are peculiarly subject to insanity;' as are likewise, indeed, 'very religious
people of all denominations,' 'religious madness being very common indeed.' 6. So far from
'religious influences' appearing to have 'clustered in any remarkable degree round the youth
of those who, whether by their talents or their social position, have left a mark upon English
history,' 'remarkable devotional tendencies' have been conspicuous chiefly by their absence
from 'the lives either of our Lord Chancellors or of the leaders of our great political parties;'
while, out of our twenty-three extant dukes, four at least, if not five, are descended from
mistresses of Charles II., not a single one of them, on the other hand, being known to Mr.
Galton to be of 'eminently prayerful qualities.' 7. In respect of those 'institutions, societies,
commercial adventures, political meetings and combinations of all sorts' with which England
so much abounds, and of which 'some are exclusively clerical, some lay, and others mixed,'
Mr. Galton 'for his own part never heard a favourable opinion of the value of the preponderating
clerical element in their business committees.' 'The procedure of Convocation which, like all
exclusively clerical meetings, is opened with prayer, has not inspired the outer world with
much respect.' Nay, 'it is a common week-day opinion of the world that praying people are not
practical.' 8. In those numerous instances in which an enterprise is executed by the agency
of the profane on behalf not of the profane themselves but of pious clients, 'the enterprises
are not observed to prosper beyond the average.' Underwriters recognise no difference in the
risks run by missionary ships and by ordinary traders, nor do life insurance companies, before
they accept a life, introduce into their 'confidential enquiries into the antecedents of the
applicant' any 'such question as "Does he habitually use family prayers and private devotions?"'
Neither are the funds of devout shareholders and depositors at all safer than those of the
profane when entrusted to the custody of untrustworthy directors, not even though the day's
work of the undertaking commence, as that of the disastrous Royal British Bank used to do,
with solemn prayer.[52]

Two or three minutes' attention to the grounds for, and the circumstances connected with, these
statements, may assist us in appreciating Mr. Galton's notion of the difference between confusedly
recollected experiences and experiences properly scrutinised and methodically selected.

For the statement first on the list, some negative evidence is considered to be afforded by
the absence of any 'single instance in which papers read before Statistical Societies have
recognised the agency of prayer either in disease or in anything else.' The chief authority
for it, however, is the eloquent silence of medical men 'who, had prayers for the sick any
notable effect, would be sure to have observed it,' seeing that they are 'always on the watch
for such things.' But are they really, in every case of recovery from illness that comes under
their notice, so particular and so successful in their enquiries whether any, and, if so, how
much, prayer has been offered on behalf of the patient, as to be qualified to judge whether
prayer has had anything to do with the cure? If not, although they may be showing their discretion
by not speaking on the point, the 'eloquence of their silence' must not be too hastily interpreted.
For doctors, of all men, should be the last to deny, as an abstract proposition, the efficacy
of prayer in disease, knowing, as they do, how great is the curative influence of prayer when
addressed to themselves. How, they may naturally ask, is it to be expected that sickness should
be cured unless properly treated? and how can it be properly treated without a doctor? and
how can a doctor be expected to attend unless he be asked? Upon which very natural queries
others naturally follow. What would be the good of the doctor's coming unless he prescribed
judiciously? and will he not more certainly prescribe judiciously if his judgment be guided
by special interposition of divine grace? and if prayer to himself has plainly been one condition
of his coming, why may not prayer to God have been one condition of his judgment having been
rightly guided? Will it be pretended that God's proceedings are abjectly submissive to inexorable
laws from which those of the doctor are exempt, and that though the latter would certainly
not have attended unless he had been asked, the grace of God, if given at all, must have been
given equally whether asked for or not?

Statements 2 and 3 are founded on a memoir by Dr. Guy, purporting to show the 'Mean Age attained
by males of various classes who had survived their 30th year from 1758 to 1843,' and whose
deaths were not caused by violence or accident. According to this table, the average age of
97 members of royal houses was only 64·04, while that of 1,179 members of the English aristocracy
was 67·31, and that of 1,632 gentlemen commoners 70·22; the proportion between the total number
of royal, and that of noble and gentle, personages who died within the period specified, being
apparently supposed to be as 97 to 2811, or as 1 to about 29. Except upon this supposition,
Mr. Galton could not with any consistency have appealed to these figures, for he had previously
announced his intention to be 'guided solely by broad averages and not to deal with isolated
instances.' He seems, however, to forget this judicious rule when he comes to treat of the
clergy, of whom 945 are compared in the table with 294 lawyers and 244 medical men. Here, he
says, 'the clergy as a whole show a life value of 69·49 against 68·14 for lawyers, and 67·31
for medical men;' but then, he adds 'this difference is reversed' when the comparison is made
between members of the three classes sufficiently distinguished to have had their lives recorded
in Chalmers' Biographical Dictionary or the Annual Register, the value of life among clergy,
lawyers, and medical men then appearing as 66·42, 66·51 and 67·34 respectively. Whether, of
the distinguished professional men concerned in this second comparison, the parsons were distinguished
for their prayerfulness and the lawyers and doctors for their prayerlessness, Mr. Galton omits
to state; and still more serious omissions on his part are those of not mentioning in what
part of our Liturgy we are accustomed to pray that it may be granted to the Queen, not simply
long to live, but also to live longer than other people; likewise in which of 'the numerous
published collections of family prayers' that have undergone his scrutiny, is to be found a
petition that parsons may live longer than lawyers or doctors; and, yet again, since an average,
falling short of threescore years and ten by little more than three and a half, is so contemptuously
rejected by him, what is the precise number of years that would be accepted by him as a liberal
compliance with prayer for long life?

While deducing his argument from clergymen, Mr. Galton makes repeated and particular reference
to the clerical sub-genus, missionaries, treating it as the more remarkable that these should
not enjoy comparative immunity from disease, because, as he suggests, it would have been so
easy for God to have made them a favoured class in respect of health: to wit, by the notable
expedient of dissuading them from exposing themselves to any of the risks peculiarly attendant
on missionary enterprise. 'Tropical fever, for example, is due to many subtle causes which
are partly under man's control. A single hour's exposure to sun, or wet, or fatigue, or mental
agitation will determine an attack.' What more simple than for God so to 'act on the minds
of the missionaries as to disincline them to take those courses which might result in mischance,
such as the forced march, the wetting, the abstinence from food, or the night exposure?' What
more simple, either, it may be added, than for God to save prayerful soldiers from ever being
killed in battle by merely putting it into their minds to desert whenever they are ordered
upon active service?

That 'the distribution of still-births is wholly unaffected by piety' Mr. Galton has satisfied
himself by finding, 'on examination of a particular period, that the proportion of such births
published in the 'Record' newspaper and in the 'Times' bore an identical relation to the total
number of deaths.' He had previously, we must suppose, satisfied himself that advertisers in
the 'Times' never say their prayers.

For the asserted commonness of religious madness Mr. Galton cites no evidence whatever, and,
to judge from the sympathies and antipathies of which one of his avowed opinions may be supposed
to be the subject and the object, speaks probably on this point solely from hearsay. Very possibly,
however, his assurance of the extraordinary prevalence of insanity among British noblemen may
be based on personal observation, as, of course, is that regarding the prayerlessness of his
own ducal acquaintances. Birds of a feather, proverbially, flock together, and the same touch
of irreligion may quite possibly suffice to make certain dukes and certain commoners kin.

Against the inefficiency, however notorious, of the clerical element in business committees,
ought in fairness to be set the equally notorious efficiency of Jesuits in whatever they undertake,
the signal statecraft displayed by the Wolseys, the Richelieus, and the Ximenes's of the days
in which cardinals and archbishops were permitted to take a leading part in executive politics,
and the very respectable figure still presented by the lords spiritual, beside the lords temporal
of the British House of Peers. As for 'the common week-day opinion that praying people are
not practical,' those by whom it is entertained, of course, mentally except praying Quakers.

The fact that insurance offices do not attempt to distinguish between the prayerful and the
prayerless, but, treating both classes as liable to the same risks, exact from both the same
premiums, proves, I submit, nothing against the efficacy of prayer, not even that the managers
of insurance offices do not believe in it. The statement that prayerful and prayerless, when
placing their money in the same dishonest keeping, or engaging in the same bad speculations,
suffer losses, bearing exactly the same proportion to their respective ventures, although most
probably quite true, is also one which Mr. Galton has neglected to verify by the application
to it of any test, scientific or other. Finally, if the disasters of the Royal British Bank
are to be ascribed to its custom of opening business with prayer, not only ought the cackle
of Convocation to be attributed to a similar cause, but also all the legislative botchery of
the House of Commons, and the abolition of prayer before debate should be treated as the most
urgently needed of those further parliamentary reforms with which the fertile brains of certain
eminent statesmen are suspected to be teeming.

Thus much by way of intimation that there would be no excessive temerity in encountering Mr.
Galton even on the ground of his own choosing, were that ground really worth contending for.
But baseless and exorbitant as all Mr. Galton's postulates are, there is not one of them to
which he might not be made heartily welcome, for any effect its surrender could have upon the
real issue, the true nature whereof both Mr. Galton and his principal coadjutor have, with
marvellous sleight of eye, contrived completely to overlook. Such Pharisees in science, such
sticklers for rigorously scientific method, might have been expected to begin by authenticating
the materials they proposed to operate upon, and, when professing to experiment upon pure metal,
at least to see that it was not mere dross they were casting into the crucible. Plainly, however,
they despise any such nice distinctions. The most earnest prayer and the emptiest ceremonial
prate are both alike to them. What sort of a process they imagine prayer to be may be at once
perceived from the sort of trials to which they desire to subject it.

'After much thought and examination,' the coadjutor aforesaid--a bashful Teucer, over whom
Professor Tyndall has, like a second Ajax Telamon, extended, with chivalrous haste, the shelter
of his shield--does 'not hesitate to propose that one single ward or hospital under the care
of first-rate physicians or surgeons, containing a number of patients afflicted with those
diseases which have been best studied, and of which the mortality rates are best known, should
be, during a period of not less than three to five years, made the object of special prayer
by the whole body of the faithful, and that, at the end of that time, the mortality rates should
be compared with the past rates, and also with those of other leading hospitals similarly well
managed during the same period.'[53] In suggesting this experiment, termed by himself 'exhaustive
and complete,' its propounder imagines himself to be offering to the faithful 'an occasion
of demonstrating to the faithless an imperishable record of the real power of prayer.' If,
however, he were himself petitioning for the reprieve of a condemned criminal, he would scarcely
expect to succeed, even with so tender-hearted a minister as Mr. Bruce, if he were to let out
in the course of his supplications, that he did not care whether he succeeded or not, and was
asking for the reprieve solely for the purpose of ascertaining whether the head of the Home
Office is really invested with the prerogative of mercy. Yet no suspicion crosses his mind
that the Searcher of Hearts may possibly be displeased with prayers addressed to Him by the
lips of those who were, all the while, saying in their hearts that they did not want their
prayers to be granted, but only wanted to satisfy their curiosity to know whether they would
be granted or not. Equally remarkable is the trustfulness of Mr. Galton, in opining that 'it
would be perfectly practicable to select out of the patients at different hospitals under treatment
for fractures, or amputations, or other common maladies, whose course is so well understood
as to admit of accurate tables being constructed for their duration and result, two considerable
groups, the one consisting of markedly religious and piously befriended individuals, the other
of those who were remarkably cold-hearted and neglected; and that, then, an honest comparison
of their respective periods of treatment, and the result, would manifest a distinct proof of
the efficacy of prayer, if it existed to even a minute fraction of the amount that religious
teachers exhort us to believe.' Evidently, he imagines that it would be sufficient for the
hospital authorities to advertise--not of course, in the 'Times,' but in the 'Record'--and
that, thereupon, whoever, having entered into his closet and shut the door, had, on behalf
of any of the patients experimented upon, prayed to the Father who seeth in secret, would at
once come forth and proclaim openly how he had been engaged. Not by 'arguments' of no greater
'cogency' than that of any based upon results thus obtainable, need either of the two experimentalists
expect to persuade praying people that prayer is, 'in the natural course of events,' doomed
to become 'obsolete, just as the Waters of Jealousy and the Urim and Thummin of the Mosaic
Law did in the times of the later Jewish Kings.' Not quite so easily will they cause it to
be 'abandoned to the domain of recognised superstition,' just as belief in witches and in the
Sovereign's touch as a cure for scrofula, and 'many other items of ancient faith have already
successively been.' Both of them have, it seems, yet to learn that the only prayer which is
believed by people of some little enlightenment to be of any avail, is the 'fervent, effectual
prayer of a righteous man,' prayer that cometh from 'a pure heart fervently,' prayer that is
made 'with the spirit and with the understanding also.' Prayer of this sort is not to be discredited
by any abundance of statistical testimony to the futility of cold lip-worship, or by any number
of fresh examples of the generally recognised fact that the children of this world are wiser
in their generation than the children of light. The recovery from the very jaws of death of
King Hezekiah, of Louis XV. of France, while as yet undetected and bien-aimé, and of the present
Prince of Wales, may, none the less probably, have been in part due to the prayers offered
up for the first by himself, for the second, according to President Hénault and Mr. Carlyle,
by all Paris, and, for the third, by the whole British empire, because lessons appointed to
be regularly said or sung in churches for the prolongation of the Sovereign's life, and said
and sung by the congregations to whom they are set, with equal regularity, whether the Sovereign
be well or ill, detested or beloved, are to all appearance disregarded. Modern believers in
prayer are well aware that, although they ask, they may not receive if they ask amiss, and
would accept this as fully adequate explanation of the disappointment of anyone, who had the
face to pray that he might grow as rich as the late Mr. Brassey, or be created a duke, or appointed
Lord Chancellor, or supplant Mr. Gladstone in the premiership, or Mr. D'Israeli in the leadership
of Her Majesty's Opposition. Moreover, the spirit, duly seasoned with understanding, in which
alone true prayer can be made, is one, not of presumptuous dictation to a Heavenly Father,
but of sincere and grateful recognition that 'He knoweth better than ourselves what is for
our good.' Far from praying for selfish aggrandisement, we cannot, if we pray aright, pray
that, whether from ourselves or others, the cup of affliction may pass away, without adding,
'Nevertheless, not as I will, but as Thou wilt.' The only gifts that can with propriety be
prayed for unconditionally are gifts spiritual--cleansing of the thoughts of the heart, strength
to resist temptation, strength to endure trials, strength to perform our appointed work; and
whoever may think fit to make these the subjects of statistical inquiry, may depend upon being
assured by everyone experimentally qualified to reply, that they are never asked for faithfully
without being obtained effectually; together with large measure, if not of the cheerfulness,
at least of the patience, of hope.

FOOTNOTES:

[50] 'Auguste Comte and Positivism,' pp. 25-8.

[51] 'Fortnightly Review' for June 1868, 'Mr. Darwin's Hypotheses.'

[52] 'Statistical Enquiries into the Efficacy of Prayer,' by Francis Galton, in Fornightly
Review,' for August 1872.

[53] 'Contemporary Review,' July 1872. 'The Prayer for the Sick. Hints towards a serious attempt
to estimate its value.' Communicated by Prof. Tyndall.

EPILOGUE.

  If with rash step, or with presumptuous word
  I have transgressed, or with unshrinking eye
  Have sought to pierce the awful mystery
  That veils thy Godhead, yet forgive me, Lord!
  Thou knowest that I sought not to draw nigh
  Thy Throne, save that my witness might record
  More truly of Thine attributes, whereby
  On Earth, e'en as in Heaven, might be adored
  The fulness of Thy glory. Not in wrath
  His trespass wilt Thou judge, whom, licence, bred
  Of zeal, though blinded, yet devout, betrays,
  Nor scorn the unconscious wanderer from Thy path,
  Nor leave me hopeless, if indeed misled
  By thirst for truth, more deep in error's maze.

  LONDON: PRINTED BY
  SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE
  AND PARLIAMENT STREET

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

ON LABOUR:

ITS WRONGFUL CLAIMS AND RIGHTFUL DUES;

ITS ACTUAL PRESENT AND POSSIBLE FUTURE.

SECOND EDITION.

8vo. cloth, price 14s.

'This is a book which all true economists should welcome.'

  ECONOMIST..

'It may be doubted whether any considerable economic work of equal merit has appeared since
the first publication of Mr. Mill's "Political Economy."'

  ATHENÆUM.

MACMILLAN & CO., London.