#2. Prelude.#--The great prelude of creation. Here we are told that all things find their origin
in God. This teaching is in contradistinction to the claim that matter is eternal. It also
denies the doctrine that the world was made by chance. It places the beginning of all things
seen in the power of One who is from eternity to eternity. This satisfies the cravings of the
human heart as no other teaching does.

#3. First Period.--Adam to Noah.# Here we have the first stage in the drama of human history.
In it we find the beginnings of the human race, of sin, and of redemption. Three most important
beginnings. It is covered by Genesis 2 to 5 inclusive. It is marked by total failure on the
part of man. Man proved himself recreant to God's holy law.

#4. Second Period.--Noah to Abraham.# Chapters 6 to 12. God makes a new beginning with the
family of Noah. But, as before, man proves himself disobedient and faithless to his God. We
find a great civilization, but little godliness. For the second time man proves a failure,
so far as obedience to God's law is concerned. Man in his pride says, "Come, let us build,"
while God on his part says, "Come, let us confound" (Gen. 11:4 and 7).

But little space is given in the Bible to these two periods, for they are in reality preliminary
to the third, which is of vastly more importance than the two put together.

#5. Third Period.--Abraham to Kings.# Genesis 12 through to 1 Samuel 9. This is a most important
period. Here God changes his method of treating man. From henceforth he will chiefly communicate
truth to mankind through a chosen family and nation. Not that no man outside of this circle
can know God's will, but that especially through Abraham and his seed God chooses to make his
will known, until, in the fulness of time, Jesus, the son of Abraham according to the flesh,
shall come and reveal clearly God's love and redemption to men.

In this section we have the story of the patriarchal family, first coming out of Ur of the
Chaldees, and living for a while in Canaan. Then they go down to Egypt, and at last are oppressed.
After being welded together in the furnace of affliction they are brought out with a mighty
hand and an outstretched arm, and in the wilderness they receive the law of God through their
great leader, Moses. Here too they learn the way of acceptable worship, and are prepared for
entry into the Land of Promise. Then follows the conquest of the land under Moses' successor,
Joshua. Now comes the period of the Judges, when God rules his people directly through these
divinely called men. This is easily seen to be a most important period. All this time Israel
only is monotheistic (believing in one God), but all the other nations of the earth are grossly
idolatrous. During this period we see that so long as God's chosen people obey him they prosper,
while as soon as they disobey disasters begin to multiply.

In this period, too, was given that legislation which has been the foundation of all the legislation
of civilized nations from that time to this. Here also we have the foundations of that system
of types that culminated in Jesus, great David's greater Son. Sacrifice, high priest, tabernacle,
here have their origin or their development. In all the history of the world up to that time
there was no period so fraught with blessings for mankind as was this period.

#6. Fourth Period.--Kings to captivity.# 1 Samuel 9 to 2 Kings 25. This may be divided into
two parts:

(1) The united monarchy. This lasted one hundred and twenty years, and had three kings, Saul,
David, Solomon. Saul brought something of order out of national chaos. David carried this still
farther and made Israel truly a great nation. Solomon, however, through too much luxury and
many political alliances, sowed the seeds of national decay.

