A final effort to legalize slavery in Nova Scotia was made in 1808. Mr. Warwick, member for
Digby Township, presented a petition from John Taylor and other slave owners setting up that
the doubts entertained by the courts rendered their property useless and that the slaves were
deserting and defying their masters. They asked for an act securing them their property or
indemnifying them for their loss. Thomas Ritchie member for Annapolis introduced a bill to
regulate Negro servants within the province. The bill passed its second reading January 11,
1808, but failed to become law; and the attempt was never renewed.

New Brunswick was separated from Nova Scotia in 1784. The Chief Justice of that province was
not as averse from slavery as his brother of Nova Scotia. One of the most interesting and celebrated
cases came before the Supreme Court of New Brunswick in Hilary Term, February 1800. Captain
Stair Agnew who had been an officer in the Queen's Rangers settled opposite Fredericton. He
was a man much thought of as is shown by his being chosen for thirty years to represent York
County in the Legislature. He owned a slave Nancy Morton[16] who claimed her freedom and whom
apparently he had put in charge of one Caleb Jones. A writ of habeas corpus was obtained directed
to Jones and the matter was arranged to be argued before the full court of four judges. For
the applicant appeared Ward Chipman[17] and Samuel Denny Street for the master, Jonathan Bliss,
Attorney General of the province, Thomas Wetmore, John Murray Bliss, Charles J. Peters and
Witham Botsford, all men of ability and eminence. On the Bench were Chief Justice Ludlow and
Puisne Justices Allen, Upham and Saunders.

The addresses of the Attorney-General and Mr. Chipman are extant. The former divided his speech
into thirty-two heads; the latter took eighty pages of foolscap for his. The arguments were
extremely able and exhaustive,[18] everything in history, morals and decided cases being brought
to bear. The case took two full days to argue and after careful consideration the court divided
equally, the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Upham affirming the right of the master and Mr.
Justice Allan and Mr. Justice Saunders held for the alleged slave.

The return of Jones to the writ was that Nancy "was at the time of her birth and ever since
hath been a female Negro slave or servant for life born of an African Negro slave and before
the removal of the said Caleb Jones from Mary Land to New Brunswick was and became by purchase
the lawful and proper Negro slave or servant for life of him the said Caleb Jones ..., that
the said Caleb Jones in the year of our Lord 1785 brought and imported the said ... Nancy his
Negro slave or servant for life into the Province of New Brunswick ... and has always hitherto
held the said ... Nancy as his proper Negro slave or servant for life ... or by laws he has
good right and authority to do...."[19]

The Chief Justice based his opinion on what he called the "Common Law of the Colonies"--and
although that expression was ridiculed at the time and has been since, there is no difficulty
in understanding it. He meant custom recognized as law not contained in an express legislative
enactment. In that sense a modern lawyer will agree that he was right. Practically all the
English colonies had slavery thoroughly recognized and often without or before legislation;
and all the well known legal maxims asserted the cogency of such custom.[20] Mr. Justice Allen
considered that no human power could justify slavery--and his brother Saunders agreed with
him. It would seem that these judges were concerned with what the law should be, the others
with what it actually was.[21]

In the result the return was held sufficient and the master had his slave. But the decision
of the divided court had its effect. Agnew reconveyed Nancy to William Bailey from whom he
had bought her and she bound herself to serve for fifteen years, then to receive her freedom.[22]
The result of this case was that while slavery was not formally abolished, it before many years
practically ceased to exist.[23]

Prince Edward Island was called Isle St. Jean until 1798. In this island slavery had the same
history as in the other maritime provinces. Shortly after the peace Negro slaves were brought
into the Island by their United Empire Loyalist masters. As late as 1802 we find recorded the
sale of "a Mulatto boy three years old called Simon" for £20, Halifax currency, then £18 sterling,
and a gift of "one Mulatto girl about five years of age named Catherine." We also find Governor
Fanning (1786-1804), freeing his two slaves and giving one of them, Shepherd, a farm.

In Cape Breton which was separate from 1784 to 1820, Negro slaves were found as early as the
former date: "Cesar Augustus, a slave and Darius Snider, black folks, married 4th September
1788," "Diana Bestian a Negro girl belonging to Abraham Cuyler Esq" was buried September 15,
1792 and a Negro slave was killed in 1791 by a blow from a spade when trying to force his way
into a public ball in Sydney.[24] In this province, too, slavery met the same fate.

There is now to be mentioned an interesting series of circumstances.[25] During the War of
1812-15 the British navy occupied many bays and rivers in United States territory and in some
cases troops were landed where there was a slave population. These forces came into possession
of many slaves, mostly voluntary fugitives, some seduced and some taken by violence from their
masters. Admiral Cochrane in April 1814 issued a proclamation inviting all those who might
be disposed to emigrate from the United States for the purpose of becoming free settlers in
some of "His Majesty's Colonies" to come with their families on board of the British men of
war and offering them the choice of joining the British forces or being sent as free settlers
to a British possession. He did not say "slaves" but no one could mistake the meaning.[26]
Negroes came in droves. Some were taken to the Bahamas and the Bermudas where their descendants
are to be found until this day; many were taken to Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.[27]

When the Treaty of Peace was concluded at Ghent, December 24, 1814 the United States did not
forget the slaves who had got away from the home of liberty. Article 1 provided for the delivery
up of all places taken by either party without carrying away any property captured "or any
slaves or other private property." The United States demanded the restoration of "all slaves
and other private property which may now be in possession of the forces of His Britannic Majesty."
The British officers refused to surrender the slaves contending that the real meaning of the
treaty did not cover the case. At length in 1818 a convention was entered into that it should
be left to the Emperor of Russia[28] to decide whether the United States by the true intent
of Article 1 was entitled to the restitution or full compensation for the slaves.

In 1822 the Emperor decided in favor of the United States. Thereupon the next year (1824) a
mixed commission of two commissioners and two arbitrators determined the average value to be
allowed as compensation;[29] for slaves taken from Louisiana $580: from Alabama Georgia and
South Carolina, $390; from Virginia, Maryland and all other States $280.

The commissioners adjourned for the purpose of enabling evidence to be obtained as to the numbers.
Clay submitted to the British Government that 3601 slaves had been taken away but was willing
for a settlement to accept the price of 1650. Britain declined, but the commissioners failed
to agree and finally by diplomacy in 1827 Britain agreed to pay £250,000 or $1,204,960 in full
for slaves and other property. Thus Britain assured the freedom of more than 3,000 slaves and
paid for them, a fitting prelude to the great Act of 1833 whereby she freed 800,000 slaves
and paid £20,000,000 for the privilege.[30]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] So far at all events as appears from any records that I have seen it is just possible however
that "La Liberté, le neigre" mentioned in de Meulles' Census of Acadia in 1696 was a black
slave, notwithstanding his name.

[2] From 1720 on, Annapolis Royal had a fairly firm government and settlement but it was not
until Halifax was founded that it became certain that the country would remain English.

[4] (1762) 2 George III, c. 1 (N. S.), Statutes at Large, Nova Scotia, Halifax, 1805, p. 77.

[5] It is referred to in a letter from Ward Chipman to Chief Justice Blowers to be mentioned
later. See post, p.

[6] This Act was continued in 1784 by (1784) 24 George III, c. 14 (N. S.). Statutes at Large,
Nova Scotia, p. 238.

[7] "Halifax currency" was at this time nine-tenths of Sterling £10 currency = £9 sterling
and the 5/ dollar being 4/6 sterling.

Sir Guy Carleton claimed that the Negroes who had taken refuge in the British lines at once
lost their status of slavery and became free. They were "not Negroes or other property of the
American," a rather technical not to say finely drawn distinction but in favorem libertatis;
and in any event Britain would not betray the helpless who had put their faith in her.

[9] Washington did make a claim; but the United States had not carried out its part of the
contract and Britain would not and never did pay. Jones' Loyalist History of New York, Vol.
2. p. 256, says that the number of Negroes who found shelter in the British lines was 2000
at least; probably this is an underestimate. Hay's Historical Reading at p. 249 gives the number
of Negroes who came into Nova Scotia with their Masters at least 3000--and of free Negroes
1522 at Shelburne, 182 at St. John River. 270 at Guysborough, 211 in Annapolis County, and
a smaller number at other places. 1200 were sent to Sierre Leone in 1792.

[10] See ante, p. --. The Negro population in 1784 estimated at about 3000 was included in
the 28,347 of Disbanded Troops and Loyalists called New Inhabitants, Can. Arch., Report for
1885, p. 10. There were some free Negroes in various companies of the British forces in one
capacity or another.

[11] The Negroes sent were Abraham, James, Lymas, Cyrus, John, Isaac, Quako, January, Priscella,
Rachel, Venus, Daphne, Ann, Dorothy and four children Celia, William, Venus, Eleanora--reserving
Matthew and Susannah at home. All these had been christened, February 11, 1784. "Isaac is a
thorough good carpenter and master sawyer, perfectly capable of overseeing and conducting the
rest and strictly honest; Lymas is a rough carpenter and sawyer; Quako is a field negro has
met with an accident in his arm which will require some indulgence. The other men are sawyers
and John also a good axeman. Abraham has been used to cattle and to attend in the house, &c.
All the men are expert in boats. The women are stout and able and promise well to increase
their numbers. Venus is useful in the hospital, poultry yard, gardens, etc. Upon the whole
they are a most useful lot of Negroes."

John Wentworth, last Royalist Governor of New Hampshire and afterwards Sir John Wentworth,
Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, doubtless believed himself to be a good man and a good
Christian.

The story of Eve and Suke infra is told by Archdeacon Raymond, 3 N. B. Mag., 1899, p. 221.

[12] He went to England in 1796 (it was said, for a visit) resigned his position in Nova Scotia,
was Knighted and appointed Recorder of Fort St. George, Bombay, India.

[13] A collateral ancestor of my own, the Reverend Archibald Riddell, had the advantage of
a similar proceeding a century before. Being apprehended for taking part in the uprising of
the Covenanters in Scotland he was given (or sold) with others to a Scottish Laird who chartered
a vessel and proceeded to take his human chattels to America for sale. The plague broke out
on the ship, the Laird and his wife died of it as did some of the crew. When the ship reached
New Jersey, there being no master, the "slaves" escaped up country. The Laird's son-in-law
and personal representative came to America and claimed Riddell and others. The governor called
a jury to determine whether they were slaves and the jury promptly found in their favor. Riddell
preached in New Jersey until the Revolution of 1688 made it safe for him to return to Scotland.
Juries in such cases are liable to what Blackstone calls "pious perjury." All this practice
was based upon the common law proceedings when a claim was made of villenage. When a person
claimed to be the lord of a villein who had run away and remained outside the manor unto which
he was regardant, he sued out a writ of neif, that is, de nativo habendo. The sheriff took
the writ and if the nativus admitted that he was villein to the lord who claimed him, he was
delivered by the sheriff to the lord of the manor; but if he claimed to be free, the sheriff
should not seize him but the Lord was compelled to take out a Pone to have the matter tried
before the Court of Common Pleas or the Justices in Eyre, that is, the assizes. Or the alleged
villein might himself sue out a writ of libertate probanda: and until trial of the case the
lord could not seize the alleged villein. The curious will find the whole subject dealt with
in Fitzherbert's Natura Brevium, pp. 77 sqq.

[14] This is very much like the Chloe Cooley case in Upper Canada. I do not know what form
the prosecution could possibly take if the Negro was in fact a slave. See Chapter V, note 5 ante.

[15] It is said that August 1797 was the date of the last public slave sale at Montreal, that
of Emmanuel Allen for £36.

The last advertisement for sale by auction of a slave in the Maritime Provinces seems to be
that in The Royal Gazette and Nova Scotia Advertiser of September 7, 1790, where William Millet
of Halifax offers for sale by auction September 9 "A stout likely negro man and sundry other
articles."

In 1802 the census showed that there were 451 Blacks in Halifax; in 1791 there were 422.

Dr. T. Watson Smith says in a paper "Slavery in Canada" republished in "Canadian History,"
No. 12, December, 1900, at p. 321.

"About 1806, so Judge Marshall has stated, a master and his slave were taken before Chief Justice
Blowers on a writ of habeas corpus. When the case and the question of slavery in general had
been pretty well argued on each side, the Chief Justice decided that slavery had no legal place
in Nova Scotia."

I have not been able to trace such a decision and cannot think that it has been correctly reported.
Dr. Smith is wholly justified in his statement "there is good ground for the opinion that this
baneful system was never actually abolished in the present Canadian Provinces until the vote
of the British Parliament and the signature of King William IV in 1833 rendered it illegal
throughout the British Empire."

