=Nature's Barometers.=--Certain movements on the part of the animal creation before a change
of weather appear to indicate a reasoning faculty. Such seems to be the case with the common
garden spider, which, on the approach of rainy or windy weather, will be found to shorten and
strengthen the guys of his web, lengthening the same when the storm is over. There is a popular
superstition that it is unlucky for an angler to meet a single magpie, but two of the birds
together are a good omen. The reason is that the birds foretell the coming of cold or stormy
weather, and at such times, instead of searching for food for their young in pairs, one will
always remain on the nest. Sea-gulls predict storms by assembling on the land, as they know
that the rain will bring earth-worms and larvæ to the surface. This, however, is merely a search
for food, and is due to the same instinct which teaches the swallow to fly high in fine weather,
and skim along the ground when foul is coming. They simply follow the flies and gnats, which
remain in the warm strata of the air. The different tribes of wading birds always migrate before
rain, likewise to hunt for food. Many birds foretell rain by warning cries and uneasy actions,
and swine will carry hay and straw to hiding-places, oxen will lick themselves the wrong way
of the hair, sheep will bleat and skip about, hogs turned out in the woods will come grunting
and squealing, colts will rub their backs against the ground, crows will gather in crowds,
crickets will sing more loudly, flies come into the house, frogs croak and change color to
a dingier hue, dogs eat grass, and rooks soar like hawks. It is probable that many of these
actions are due to actual uneasiness, similar to that which all who are troubled with corns
or rheumatism experience before a storm, and are caused both by the variation in barometric
pressure and the changes in the electrical condition of the atmosphere.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Slain by her Defender.=--During King William's wars on the Continent, soon after the Revolution,
it was usual, at the end of the campaign, for both armies to retire into winter-quarters, and
numbers got leave of absence to go home and see their friends. Among others who availed themselves
of this privilege was a young Highland officer, whose relations lived in the upper parts of
Perthshire. He visited about in that district, and entertained his friends by talking of the
battles in which he had fought, and the wonderful events he had witnessed; and he everywhere
met with the most cordial reception. He was at last invited to the house of a gentleman who
had an only daughter, whose beauty was the universal theme of admiration. He there, as usual,
recited his martial feats, till, like Othello, he made an impression on the young lady, which
the gallant soldier soon perceived, and he contrived to settle a plan with her for their eloping
together at midnight. They got off unperceived, and having travelled several miles, they at
last came to an inn, where they thought they might refresh themselves in safety. The enraged
father, however, as soon as he had discovered his daughter's flight, assembled men, and pursued
the fugitives with such speed and eagerness that he overtook them soon after they got into
the inn. The lover, though he had nobody to support him, yet was determined not to yield up
his mistress, and being well armed, and an excellent swordsman, he resolved to resist any attack
made upon him. When the party pursuing entered the inn, his mistress ran for protection behind
him; but as he was preparing to give a deadly stroke, the point of the sword accidently struck
her a violent blow, and she instantly expired at his feet. Upon seeing what had happened, he
immediately surrendered himself, saying he did not wish to live, his earthly pleasure being
gone.