Leicester, knowing nothing of his son's disaster, made his way, on August 3, from Kempsey to
Evesham, where he rested for the night. Next morning, after mass and breakfast, the army was
about to continue its march, when scouts descried troops advancing upon the town. At first
it was hoped that they were the followers of young Simon, but their near approach revealed
them to be the army of the marchers. With extraordinary rapidity Edward led his troops back
to Worcester as soon as he had won the fight at Kenilworth. Learning there that Simon had crossed
the river in his absence, he at once turned back to meet him, seeking to elude his vigilance
by a long night march by circuitous routes. The result was that for the second time he caught
his enemy in a trap.

Evesham, like Lewes, stands on a peninsula. It is situated on the right bank of a wide curve
of the Avon, and approachable only by crossing over the river, or by way of the sort of isthmus
between the two bends of the Avon a little to the north of the town. Edward occupied this isthmus
with his best troops, and thus cut off all prospect of escape by land. The other means of exit
from the town was over the bridge which connects it with its south-eastern suburb of Bengeworth,
on the left bank of the river. Edward, however, took the precaution to detach Gloucester with
a strong force to hold Bengeworth, and thus prevent Simon's escape over the bridge. The weary
and war-worn host of Montfort, then, was out-generalled in such fashion that effective resistance
to a superior force, flushed by recent victory, was impossible. Simon himself saw that his
last hour was come; yet he could not but admire the skilful plan which had so easily discomfited
him. "By the arm of St. James," he declared, "they come on cunningly. Yet they have not taught
themselves that order of battle; they have learnt it from me. God have mercy upon our souls,
for our bodies are theirs."

Edward and Gloucester both advanced simultaneously to the attack. A storm broke at the moment
of the encounter, and the battle was fought in a darkness that obscured the brightness of an
August day. Leicester's Welsh infantry broke at once before the charge of the mail-clad horsemen,
and took refuge behind hedges and walls, where they were hunted out and butchered after the
main fight was over. But the men-at-arms struggled valiantly against Edward's superior forces,
though they were soon borne down by sheer numbers. Simon fought like a hero and met a soldier's
death. With him were slain his son Henry, his faithful comrade Peter Montfort, the baronial
justiciar Hugh Despenser, and many other men of mark. A large number of prisoners fell into
the victor's hands, and King Henry, who unwillingly followed Simon in all his wanderings, was
wounded in the shoulder by his son's followers, and only escaped a worse fate by revealing
his identity with the cry: "Slay me not! I am Henry of Winchester, your King." The marchers
gratified their rage by massacring helpless fugitives, and by mutilating the bodies of the
slain. Earl Simon's head was sent as a present to the wife of Roger Mortimer; and it was with
difficulty that the mangled corpse found its last rest in the church of Evesham Abbey. His
memory long lived in the hearts of his adopted countrymen, and especially among monks and friars,
who despite the ban of the Church, hailed him as another St. Thomas, for he too had lain down
his life for the cause of justice and religion. Miracles were worked at his tomb; liturgies
composed in his honour, and an informal popular canonisation, which no papal censures could
prevent, kept his memory green. His faults were forgotten in the pathos of his end. His work
survived the field of Evesham and the reaction which succeeded it. His victorious nephew learnt
well the lesson of his career, and the true successor of the martyred earl was the future Edward I.

No thoughts of policy disturbed the fierce passion of revenge which possessed the victorious
marchers. On August 7 Henry issued a proclamation announcing that he had resumed the personal
exercise of the royal power. The baronial ministers and sheriffs were replaced by royalist
partisans. The acts of the revolutionary government were denounced as invalid. The faithful
city of London was cruelly humiliated for its zeal for Earl Simon. The exiles, headed by Queen
Eleanor and Archbishop Boniface, returned from their long sojourn beyond sea. With them came
to England a new legate, the Cardinal Ottobon, specially sent from the papal court to punish
the bishops and clergy that had persisted in their adherence to the popular cause. Four prelates
were excommunicated and suspended from their functions, including Berkstead of Chichester and
Cantilupe of Worcester. But the aged Bishop of Worcester was delivered from persecution by
death; "snatched away," as a kindly foe says, "lest he should see evil days". His nephew, Thomas
of Cantilupe, the baronial chancellor, fled to Paris, where he forsook politics for the study
of theology. The widowed Countess of Leicester was not saved by her near kindred to the king
from lifelong banishment. At last a general sentence of forfeiture was pronounced against all
who had fought against Edward, either at Kenilworth or Evesham. There was a greedy scramble
for the spoils of victory. The greatest of these, Montfort's forfeited earldom of Leicester,
went to Edmund, the king's younger son. Edward took back the earldom of Chester and all his
old possessions. Roger Mortimer was rewarded by grants of land and franchises which raised
the house of Wigmore to a position only surpassed by that of the strongest of the earldoms.

At first the Montfort party showed an inclination to accept the defeat at Evesham as decisive.
Even young Simon of Montfort, who still held out at Kenilworth, considered it prudent to restore
his prisoner, the King of the Romans, to liberty. But the victors' resolve to deprive all their
beaten foes of their estates, drove the vanquished into fresh risings. The first centre of
the revolt of the disinherited was at Kenilworth, but before long the younger Simon abandoned
the castle to join a numerous band which had found a more secure retreat in the isle of Axholme,
amidst the marshes of the lower Trent. There they held their own until the winter, when they
were persuaded by Edward to accept terms. A little later, Simon again revolted and joined the
mariners of the Cinque Ports, whose towns still held out against the king, save Dover, which
Edward had captured after a siege. Under Simon's leadership the Cinque Ports played the part
of pirates on all merchants going to and from England. At last in March, 1266, Edward forced
Winchelsea to open its gates to him. He next turned his arms against a valiant freebooter,
Adam Gordon, who lurked with his band of outlaws in the dense beech woods of the Chilterns.
With the capture of Adam Gordon, after a hand-to-hand tussle with Edward in which the king's
son narrowly escaped with his life, the resistance in the south was at an end.

As one centre of rebellion was pacified other disturbances arose. In the spring of 1266, Robert
Ferrars, Earl of Derby, newly released from the prison into which Earl Simon had thrown him,
raised a revolt in his own county. On May 15, 1266, Derby was defeated by Henry of Almaine
at Chesterfield. His earldom was transferred to Edmund, the king's son, already Montfort's
successor as Earl of Leicester, and in 1267 also Earl of Lancaster, a new earldom, deriving
its name from the youngest of the shires.[1] Reduced to the Staffordshire estate of Chartley,
the house of Ferrars fell back into the minor baronage. Kenilworth was still unconquered. Its
walls were impregnable except to famine, and before his flight to Axholme young Simon had procured
provisions adequate for a long resistance. The garrison harried the neighbourhood with such
energy that the whole levies of the realm were assembled to subdue it. After a fruitless assault,
the royalists settled down to a blockade which lasted from midsummer to Christmas. The legate,
Ottobon, appearing in the besiegers' camp to excommunicate the defenders, they in derision
dressed up their surgeon in the red robes of a cardinal, in which disguise he answered Ottobon's
curses by a travesty of the censures of the Church.

    [1] For Edmund's estates and whole career, see W.E. Rhodes'
    Edmund, Earl of Lancaster, in Engl. Hist. Review, x.
    (1895), 19-40 and 209-37.

The blockade soon tried the patience of the barons. It was hard to keep any medieval army long
together, and the lords, anxious to go back to their homes, complained of the harsh policy
that compelled their long attendance. The royalist host split up into two parties, led respectively
by Roger Mortimer and Earl Gilbert of Gloucester. The cruel lord of Wigmore was the type of
the extreme reaction. Intent only on vengeance, booty, and ambition, Mortimer clamoured for
violent measures, and was eager to reject all compromises. Gloucester, on the other hand, posed
as the mediator, and urged the need of pacifying the disinherited by mitigating the sentence
of forfeiture which had driven them into prolonged resistance. In the first flush of victory,
Edward had been altogether on Mortimer's side, but gradually statecraft and humanity turned
him from the reckless policy of the marcher. Edward's adhesion to counsels of moderation changed
the situation. While Mortimer pressed the siege of Kenilworth, Edward and Gloucester met a
parliament at Northampton which agreed to uphold the policy of 1258 and mitigate the hard lot
of the disinherited. A document drawn up in the camp at Kenilworth received the approval of
parliament and was published on October 31. The Dictum de Kenilworth, as it was called, was
largely taken up with assertions of the authority of the crown, and denunciations of the memory
of Earl Simon. More essential points were the re-enactment of the Charters and the redress
of some of the grievances against which the Provisions of 1258 were directed. The vital article,
however, laid down that the stern sentence of forfeiture against adherents of the fallen cause
was to be remitted, and allowed rebels to redeem their estates by paying a fine, which in most
cases was to be assessed at five years' value of their lands. Hard as were these terms, they
were milder than those which had previously been offered to the insurgents. Yet the defenders
of Kenilworth could not bring themselves to accept them until December, when disease and famine
caused them to surrender. Despite their long-deferred submission, the garrison was admitted
to the terms of the Dictum.

Even then resistance was not yet over. A forlorn hope of the disinherited, headed by John d'Eyville,
established themselves about Michaelmas in the isle of Ely, where they made themselves the
terror of all East Anglia, plundering towns so far apart as Norwich and Cambridge, maltreating
the Jews, and holding the rich citizens to ransom. Early in 1267 the north-country baron, John
of Vescy, rose in Northumberland, and violently resumed possession of his forfeited castle
of Alnwick. While Henry tarried at Cambridge, Edward went north and soon won over Vescy by
the clemency which made the lord of Alnwick henceforth one of his most devoted servants.

More formidable than the revolt of Eyville or Vescy was the ambiguous attitude of Earl Gilbert
of Gloucester. Roger Mortimer was once more intriguing against him, and striving to upset the
Kenilworth compromise. After a violent scene between the two enemies in the parliament at Bury,
Gloucester withdrew to the march of Wales, where he waged war against Mortimer. In April, 1267,
he made his way with a great following to London, professing that he wished to hold a conference
with the legate. It was a critical moment. Edward was still in the north; Henry was wasting
his time at Cambridge; the Londoners welcomed Earl Gilbert as a champion of the good old cause;
the legate took refuge in the Tower, and the earl did not hesitate to lay siege to the stronghold.
Before long Gloucester was joined by Eyville and many of the Ely fugitives. It seemed as if
Gloucester was in as strong position as Montfort had ever won, and that after two years of
warfare the verdict of Evesham was about to be reversed.

Edward marched south and joined forces with his father, who had moved from Cambridge to Stratford,
near London. Everything seemed to suggest that the eastern suburbs of London would witness
a fight as stubborn as Lewes or Evesham. But Gloucester was not the man to press things to
extremities, and Edward though firm was conciliatory. He delivered Ottobon from the hands of
the rebels,[1] and then arranged a peace upon terms which secured Gloucester's chief object
of procuring better conditions for the disinherited. Not only Earl Gilbert but Eyville and
his associates were admitted to the royal favour. A few desperadoes still held out until July
in the isle of Ely, and Edward devoted himself to tracking them to their lairs. He built causeways
of wattles over the fens, which protected the disinherited in their last refuge. When he had
clearly shown his superiority, he offered the garrison of Ely the terms of the Dictum de Kenilworth.
With their acceptance of these conditions the English struggle ended, in July, 1267, nearly
two years after the battle of Evesham.

    [1] Engl. Hist. Review, xvii. (1902), 522.

Llewelyn still remained under arms. He had profited by the two years of strife to deal deadly
blows against the marchers. He conquered the Mid-Welsh lands which had been granted to Mortimer,
and devastated Edward's Cheshire earldom. When Gloucester grew discontented with the course
of events, the old friend of Montfort became the close ally of the man who had ruined Montfort's
cause. A Welsh chronicler treats Gloucester's march to London as a movement which naturally
followed the alliance of Gloucester and Llewelyn. On Gloucester's submission, Llewelyn was
left to his own resources. Edward had it in his power to avenge past injuries by turning all
his forces against his old enemy. But the country was weary of war, and Edward preferred to
end the struggle. The legate Ottobon urged both Edward and the Welsh prince to make peace,
and in September, 1267, Henry and his son went down to Shrewsbury, accompanied by Ottobon,
who received from the king full powers to treat with Llewelyn, and a promise that Henry would
accept any terms that he thought fit to conclude. Llewelyn thereupon sent ambassadors to Shrewsbury,
and the negotiations went on so smoothly that on September 25 a definite treaty of peace was
signed. On Michaelmas day Henry met Llewelyn at Montgomery, received his homage, and witnessed
the formal ratification of the treaty.

By the treaty of Shrewsbury Llewelyn was recognised as Prince of Wales, and as overlord of
all the Welsh magnates, save the representative of the old line of the princes of South Wales.
The four cantreds, Edward's old patrimony, were ceded to him; and though he promised to surrender
many of his conquests, he was allowed to remain in possession of great tracts of land in Mid
and South Wales, in the heart of the marcher region.[1] Substantially the Welsh prince was
recognised as holding the position which he claimed from Montfort in the days of the treaty
of Pipton. Alone of Montfort's friends, Llewelyn came out of an unsuccessful struggle upon
terms such as are seldom obtained even by victory in the field. The triumph of the Welsh prince
is the more remarkable because Edward and his ally, Mortimer, were the chief sufferers by the
treaty. But Edward had learnt wisdom during his apprenticeship. He recognised that the exhaustion
of the country demanded peace at any price, and he dreaded the possibility of the alliance
of Llewelyn and Earl Gilbert. But whatever Edward's motives may have been in concluding the
treaty, it left Llewelyn in so strong a position that he was encouraged to those fresh aggressions
which in the next reign proved the ruin of his power. The Welsh wars of Edward I. are the best
elucidation of the importance of the treaty of Shrewsbury. The Welsh principality, which Edward
as king was to destroy, was as much the creation of the Barons' War as the outcome of the fierce
Celtic enthusiasm which found its bravest champion in the son of Griffith.

    [1] For the growth of Llewelyn's power see the maps of Wales in
    1247 and 1267 in Owens College Historical Essays, pp. 76 and
    135.

It was time to redeem the promises by which the moderate party had been won over to the royalist
cause. The statute of Marlborough of 1267 re-enacted in a more formal fashion the chief of
the Provisions of Westminster of 1259, and thus prevented the undoing of all the progress attained
during the years of struggle. Ottobon in 1268 held a famous council at London, in which important
canons were enacted with a view to the reformation of the Church. A little later the Londoners
received back their forfeited charters and the disinherited were restored to their estates.
After these last measures of reparation, England sank into a profound repose that lasted for
the rest of the reign of Henry III. A happy beginning of the years of peace was the dedication
of the new abbey of Westminster, and the translation of the body of St. Edward to the new shrine,
whose completion had long been the dearest object of the old king's life.

At this time Louis IX. was meditating his second crusade, and in every country in Europe the
friars were preaching the duty of fighting the infidel. Nowhere save in France did the Holy
War win more powerful recruits than in England. In 1268 Edward himself took the cross, [1]
and with him his brother Edmund of Lancaster, his cousin Henry of Almaine, and many leading
lords of both factions. Financial difficulties delayed the departure of the crusaders, and
it was not until 1270 that Edward and Henry were able to start. On reaching Provence, they
learnt that Louis had turned his arms against Tunis, whither they followed him with all speed.
On Edward's arrival off Tunis, he found that Louis was dead and that Philip III., the new French
king, had concluded a truce with the misbelievers. Profoundly mortified by this treason to
Christendom, Edward set forth with his little squadron to Acre, the chief town of Palestine
that still remained in Christian hands. Henry of Almaine preferred to return home at once,
but on his way through Italy was murdered at Viterbo by the sons of Earl Simon of Montfort,
a deed of blood which revived the bitterest memories of the Barons' War. Edward remained in
Palestine until August, 1272, and threw all his wonted fire and courage into the hopeless task
of upholding the fast-decaying Latin kingdom. At last alarming news of his father's health
brought him back to Europe.

    [1] For Edward's crusade see Riant's article in Archives de
    l'Orient Latin, i., 617-32 (1881).

On November 16, 1272, Henry III., then in his sixty-sixth year, died at Westminster. His remains
were laid at rest in the neighbouring abbey church, hard by the shrine of St. Edward. With
him died the last of his generation. St. Louis' death in August, 1270, has already been recorded.
The death of Clement IV. in 1268 was followed by a three years' vacancy in the papacy. This
was scarcely over when Richard, King of the Romans, prostrated by the tragedy of Viterbo, preceded
his brother to the tomb. Still earlier, Boniface of Canterbury had ended his tenure of the
chair of St. Augustine. The new reign begins with fresh actors and fresh motives of action.

CHAPTER VII.

THE EARLY FOREIGN POLICY AND LEGISLATION OF EDWARD I.

The Dominican chronicler, Nicholas Trivet, thus describes the personality of Edward I.: "He
was of elegant build and lofty stature, exceeding the height of the ordinary man by a head
and shoulders. His abundant hair was yellow in childhood, black in manhood, and snowy white
in age. His brow was broad, and his features regular, save that his left eyelid drooped somewhat,
like that of his father, and hid part of the pupil. He spoke with a stammer, which did not,
however, detract from the persuasiveness of his eloquence. His sinewy, muscular arms were those
of the consummate swordsman, and his long legs gave him a firm hold in the saddle when riding
the most spirited of steeds. His chief delight was in war and tournaments, but he derived great
pleasure from hawking and hunting, and had a special joy in chasing down stags on a fleet horse
and slaying them with a sword instead of a hunting spear. His disposition was magnanimous,
but he was intolerant of injuries, and reckless of dangers when seeking revenge, though easily
won over by a humble submission."[1] The defects of his youth are well brought out by the radical
friar who wrote the Song of Lewes. Even to the partisan of Earl Simon, Edward was "a valiant
lion, quick to attack the strongest, and fearing the onslaught of none. But if a lion in pride
and fierceness, he was a panther in inconstancy and mutability, changing his word and promise,
cloaking himself by pleasant speech. When he is in a strait he promises whatever you wish,
but as soon as he has escaped he forgets his promise. The treachery or falsehood, whereby he
is advanced, he calls prudence; the way whereby he arrives whither he will, crooked though
it be, he regards as straight; whatever he likes he says is lawful, and he thinks he is released
from the law, as though he were greater than a king."[2]

    [1] Annals, pp. 181-82.

    [2] Song of Lewes, pp. 14-15, ed. Kingsford.

Hot and impulsive in disposition, easily persuaded that his own cause was right, and with a
full share in the pride of caste, Edward committed many deeds of violence in his youth, and
never got over his deeply rooted habit of keeping the letter of his promise while violating
its spirit. Yet he learnt to curb his impetuous temper, and few medieval kings had a higher
idea of justice or a more strict regard to his plighted word. "Keep troth" was inscribed upon
his tomb, and his reign signally falsified the prediction of evil which the Lewes song-writer
ventured to utter. A true sympathy bound him closely to his nobles and people. His unstained
family life, his piety and religious zeal, his devotion to friends and kinsfolk, his keen interest
in the best movements of his time, showed him a true son of Henry III. But his strength of
will and seriousness of purpose stand in strong contrast to his father's weakness and levity.
A hard-working, clear-headed, practical, and sober temperament made him the most capable king
of all his line. He may have been wanting in originality or deep insight, yet it is impossible
to dispute the verdict that has declared him to be the greatest of all the Plantagenets.

The broad lines of Edward's policy during the thirty-five years of his kingship had already
been laid down for him during his rude schooling. The ineffectiveness of his father's government
inspired him with a love of strong rule, and this enabled him to grapple with the chronic maladministration
which made even a well-ordered medieval kingdom a hot-bed of disorder. The age of Earl Simon
had been fertile in new ideals and principles of government. Edward held to the best of the
traditions of his youth, and his task was not one of creation so much as of selection. His
age was an age of definition. The series of great laws, which he made during the earlier half
of his reign, represented a long effort to appropriate what was best in the age that had gone
before, and to combine it in orderly sequence. The same ideals mark the constitutional policy
of his later years. The materials for the future constitution of England were already at his
hand. It was a task well within Edward's capacity to strengthen the authority of the crown
by associating the loyal nobles and clergy in the work of ruling the state, and to build up
a body politic in which every class of the nation should have its part. Yet he never willingly
surrendered the most insignificant of his prerogatives, and if he took the people into partnership
with him, he did so with the firm belief that he would be a more powerful king if his subjects
loved and trusted him. Though closely associated with his nobles by many ties of kinship and
affection, he was the uncompromising foe of feudal separatism, and hotly resented even the
constitutional control which the barons regarded as their right. In the same way the unlimited
franchises of the lords of the Welsh march, the almost regal authority which the treaty of
Shrewsbury gave to the Prince of Wales, the rejection of his claims as feudal overlord of Scotland,
were abhorrent to his autocratic disposition. True son of the Church though he was, he was
the bitter foe of ecclesiastical claims which, constantly encroaching beyond their own sphere,
denied kings the fulness of their authority.

Edward's policy was thoroughly comprehensive. He is not only the "English Justinian" and the
creator of our later constitution; he has rightly been praised for his clear conception of
the ideal of a united Britain which brought him into collision with Welsh and Scots. His foreign
policy lay as near to his heart as the conquest of Wales or Scotland, or the subjection of
priests and nobles. He was eager to make Gascony obey him, anxious to keep in check the French
king, and to establish a sort of European balance of power, of which England, as in Wolsey's
later dreams, was to be the tongue of the balance. Yet, despite his severe schooling in self-control,
he undertook more than he could accomplish, and his failure was the more signal because he
found the utmost difficulty in discovering trustworthy subordinates. Moreover, the limited
resources of a medieval state, and the even more limited control which a medieval ruler had
over these resources, were fatal obstacles in the way of too ambitious a policy. Edward had
inherited his father's load of debt, and could only accomplish great things by further pledging
his credit to foreign financiers, against whom his subjects raised unending complaints. Yet,
if his methods of attaining his objects were sometimes mean and often violent, there was a
rare nobility about his general purpose.

Every precaution was taken to secure Edward's succession and the establishment of the provisional
administration which was to rule until his return. Before leaving England in 1270, Edward had
appointed as his agents Walter Giffard, Archbishop of York, Roger Mortimer, and Robert Burnell,
his favourite clerk. The vacancy of the see of Canterbury after Boniface's death placed Giffard
in a position of peculiar eminence. Appointed first lord of the council, he virtually became
regent; and he associated with himself in the administration of the realm his two colleagues
in the management of the new king's private affairs. Early in 1273 a parliament of magnates
and representatives of shires and boroughs took oaths of allegiance to the king and continued
the authority of the three regents. By the double title of Edward's personal delegation and
the recognition of the estates, Giffard, Mortimer, and Burnell ruled the country for the two
years which were to elapse before the sovereign's return. Their government was just, economical,
and peaceful. Even Gilbert of Gloucester remained quiet, and, save for the refusal of the Prince
of Wales to perform his feudal obligations, the calm of the last years of the old reign continued.
It is evidence of constitutional progress that the administration was carried on with so little
friction in the absence of the monarch. Roger Mortimer, the most formidable of the feudal baronage,
was himself one of the agents of this salutary change. The marcher chieftain put down with
promptitude an attempted revolt of north-country knights which threatened public tranquillity.

Edward first heard of his father's death in Sicily, but the tidings of the maintenance of peace
rendered it unnecessary for him to hasten his return, and he made his way slowly through Italy.
In Sicily he was entertained by his uncle, Charles of Anjou. Thence he went to Orvieto, where
the new pope, Gregory X., who, as archdeacon of Liege, had been the comrade of his crusade,
was then residing. From king and pope alike Edward earnestly sought vengeance for the murder
of Henry of Almaine. Proceeding northwards, he was received with great pomp by the cities of
Lombardy, and made personal acquaintance with Savoy and its count, Philip, his aged great-uncle.
Crossing the Mont Cenis, he was welcomed by bands of English magnates who had gone forth to
meet him. He was soon at the head of a little army, and in the true spirit of a hero of romance
halted to receive the challenge of the boastful Count of Chalon. The tournament between the
best knights of England and Burgundy was fought out with such desperation that it became a
serious battle. At last Edward unhorsed the count in a personal encounter, which added greatly
to his fame. This "Little Battle of Chalon" was the last victory of his irresponsible youth.

The serious business of kingcraft began when Edward met his cousin, Philip III., at Paris.
The news from England was still so good that Edward resolved to remain in France with the twofold
object of settling his relations with the French monarchy and of receiving the homage and regulating
the affairs of Aquitaine. Despite the treaty of Paris of 1259, there were so many subjects
of dispute between the English and French kings that, beneath the warm protestations of affection
between the kinsmen, there was, as a French chronicler said, but a cat-and-dog love between
them.[1] The treaty had not been properly executed, and the English had long complained that
the French had not yielded up to England their king's rights over the three bishoprics of Limoges,
Cahors, and Périgueux, which St. Louis had ceded. New complications arose after the death of
Alfonse of Poitiers in the course of the Tunisian crusade. By the treaty of Paris the English
king should then have entered into possession of Saintonge south of the Charente, the Agenais,
and lower Quercy. But the ministers of Philip III. laid hands upon the whole of Alfonse's inheritance
and refused to surrender these districts to the English. The welcome which Edward received
from his cousin at Paris could not blind him to the incompatibility of their interests, nor
to the impossibility of obtaining at the moment the cession of the promised lands. He did not
choose to tarry at Paris while the diplomatists unravelled the tangled web of statecraft. Nor
would he tender an unconditional homage to the prince who withheld from him his inheritance.
Already a stickler for legal rights, even when used to his own detriment, Edward was unable
to deny his subjection to the overlord of Aquitaine. He therefore performed homage, but he
phrased his submission in terms which left him free to urge his claims at a more convenient
season. "Lord king," he said to Philip, "I do you homage for all the lands which I ought to
hold of you." The vagueness of this language suggested that, if Edward could not get Saintonge,
he might revive his claim to Normandy. The king appointed a commission to continue the negotiations
with the French court, and then betook himself to Aquitaine.[2]

    [1] "Hic amor dici potest amor cati et canis," Chron. Limov.,
    in Recueil des Hist. de la France, xxi., 784.

    [2] C.V. Langlois' Le Règne de Philippe le Hardi (1887), and
    Gavrilovitch's Le Traité de Paris, give the best modern
    accounts of Edward's early dealings with the French crown.

It was nearly ten years since the presence of the monarch had restrained the turbulence of
the Gascon duchy. Edward had before him the task of watching over its internal administration,
and checking the subtle policy whereby the agents of the French crown were gradually undermining
his authority. Two wars, the war of Béarn and the war of Limoges, desolated Gascony from the
Pyrenees to the Vienne. It was Edward's first task to bring these troubles to an end. Age and
experience had not diminished the ardour which had so long made Gaston of Béarn the focus of
every trouble in the Pyrenean lands. He defied a sentence of the ducal court of Saint Sever,
and was already at war with the seneschal, Luke of Tany, when Edward's appearance brought matters
to a crisis. During the autumn and winter of 1273-74, Edward hunted out Gaston from his mountain
strongholds, and at last the Béarnais, despairing of open resistance, appealed to the French
king. Philip accepted the appeal, and ordered Edward to desist from molesting Gaston during
its hearing. The English king, anxious not to quarrel openly with the French court, granted
a truce. The suit of Gaston long occupied the parliament of Paris, but the good-will of the
French lawyers could not palliate the wanton violence of the Viscount of Béarn. The French,
like the English, were sticklers for formal right, and were unwilling to push matters to extremities.
Edward had the reward of his forbearance, for Philip advised Gaston to go to England and make
his submission. Gratified by his restoration to Béarn in 1279, Gaston remained faithful for
the next few years. Edward was less successful in dealing with Limoges. There had been for
many years a struggle between the commune of the castle, or bourg, of Limoges and Margaret
the viscountess. It was to no purpose that the townsfolk had invoked the treaty of Paris, whereby,
as they maintained, the French king transferred to the King of England his ancient jurisdiction
over them. They were answered by a decree of the parliament of Paris that the homage of the
commune of Limoges belonged not to the crown but to the viscountess, and that therefore the
treaty involved no change in their allegiance. Edward threw himself with ardour on to the side
of the burgesses. Guy of Lusignan, still the agent of his brother abroad, though prudently
excluded from England, was sent to Limoges, where he incited the commune to resist the viscountess.
In May, 1274, Edward himself took up his quarters in Limoges, and for a month ruled there as
sovereign. But the French court reiterated the decree which made the commune the vassal of
the viscountess. To persevere in upholding the rebels meant an open breach with the French
court in circumstances more unfavourable than in the case of Gaston of Béarn. Once more Edward
refused to allow his ambition to prevail over his sense of legal obligation. With rare self-restraint
he renounced the fealty of Limoges, and abandoned his would-be subjects to the wrath of the
viscountess. This was an act of loyalty to feudal duty worthy of St. Louis. If Edward, on later
occasions, pressed his own legal claims against his vassals, he set in his own case a pattern
of strict obedience to his overlord.

While Edward was still abroad, his friend Gregory X. held from May to July, 1274, the second
general council at Lyons, wherein there was much talk of a new crusade, and an effort was made,
which came very near temporary success, towards healing the schism of the Eastern and Western
Churches. At Gregory's request Edward put off his coronation, lest the celebration might call
away English prelates from Lyons. When the council was over, he at last turned towards his
kingdom. At Paris he was met by the mayor of London, Henry le Waleis, and other leading citizens,
who set before him the grievous results of the long disputes with Flanders, which had broken
off the commercial relations between the two countries, and had inflicted serious losses on
English trade. Edward strove to bring the Flemings to their senses by prohibiting the export
of wool from England to the weaving towns of Flanders. The looms of Ghent and Bruges were stopped
by reason of the withholding of the raw material, and the distress of his subjects made Count
Guy of Flanders anxious to end so costly a quarrel. On July 28 Edward met Guy at Montreuil
and signed a treaty which re-established the old friendship between lands which stood in constant
economic need of each other. There was no longer any occasion for further delay, and on August
2 Edward and his queen crossed over to Dover. Received with open arms by his subjects, he was
crowned at Westminster on August 19 by the new Archbishop of Canterbury, Robert Kilwardby,
philosopher, theologian, and Dominican friar, whom Gregory X. had placed over the church of
Canterbury, despite the vigorous efforts which Edward made to secure the primacy for Robert
Burnell. He had been absent from England for four years.

Edward's sojourn in France was fruitful of results which he was unable to reap for the moment.
Conscious of the inveterate hostility of the French king, he strove to establish relations
with foreign powers to counterbalance the preponderance of his rival. When the death of Richard
of Cornwall reopened the question of the imperial succession, Charles of Anjou had been anxious
to obtain the prize for his nephew, Philip III., on the specious pretext that the headship
of Christendom would enable the King of France to "collect chivalry from all the world" and
institute the crusade which both Gregory X. and Edward so ardently desired. But the most zealous
enthusiast for the holy war could hardly be deceived by the false zeal with which the Angevin
cloaked his overweening ambition. It was a veritable triumph for Edward, when Gregory X., though
attracted for a moment by the prospect of a strong emperor capable of landing a crusade, accepted
the choice of the German magnates who, in terror of France, elected as King of the Romans the
strenuous but not overmighty Swabian count, Rudolf of Hapsburg. As Alfonso of Castile's pretensions
were purely nominal, this election ended the Great Interregnum by restoring the empire on a
narrower but more practical basis. Though Gregory strove to reconcile the French to Rudolf's
accession, common suspicion of France bound Edward and the new King of the Romans in a common
friendship.

Family disputes soon destroyed the unity of policy of the Capetian house. Philip III., well
meaning but weak, was drifting into complete dependence on Charles of Anjou, whom Edward distrusted,
alike as the protector of the murderers of Henry of Almaine and as the supplanter of his mother
in the Provençal heritage. Margaret of Provence, the widow of St. Louis, had a common grievance
with Edward and his mother against Charles of Anjou. She hated him the more inasmuch as he
was depriving her of all influence over her son, King Philip. It was easy in such circumstances
for the two widowed queens of France and England to form grandiose schemes for ousting Charles
from Provence. Rudolf lent himself to their plans by investing Margaret with the county. Edward's
filial piety and political interests made him a willing partner in these designs. In 1278 he
betrothed his daughter Joan of Acre to Hartmann, the son of the King of the Romans. The plan
of Edward and Rudolf was to revive in some fashion the kingdom of Arles[1] in favour of the
young couple. Though Rudolf was unfaithful to this policy, and abandoned the proposed English
marriage in favour of a match between his daughter and the son of the King of Sicily, the two
queens persisted in their plans, and new combinations against Charles and Philip for some years
threatened the peace of Europe.

    [1] Fournier's Le Royaume d'Arles et de Vienne (1891) gives
    the best modern account of Edward's relations to the Middle
    Kingdom.

It is unlikely that Edward hoped for serious results from schemes so incoherent and backed
with such slender resources. Besides his alliance with the emperor, he strove to injure the
French king by establishing close relations with his brother-in-law, Alfonso of Castile, who
since 1276 was at war with the French. Earlier than this, he made himself the champion of Blanche
of Artois, the widow of Henry III. of Navarre and Champagne. He wished that Joan, their only
child, should bring her father's lands to one of his own sons, and, though disappointed in
this ambition, he managed to marry his younger brother, Edmund of Lancaster, to Blanche. Though
the French took possession of Navarre, whereby they alike threatened Gascony and Castile, they
suffered Blanche to rule in Champagne in her daughter's name, and Edmund was associated with
her in the government of that county. The tenure of a great French fief by the brother of the
English king was a fresh security against the aggressions of the kings of France and Sicily.
It probably facilitated the conclusion of the long negotiations as to the interpretation of
the treaty of Paris, and the partition of the inheritance of Alfonse of Poitiers. Edward's
position against France was further strengthened in 1279 by the death of his wife's mother,
Joan of Castile, the widow of Ferdinand the Saint and the stepmother of Alfonso the Wise, whereupon
he took possession of Ponthieu in Eleanor's name. Scarcely had he established himself at Abbeville,
the capital of the Picard county, than the negotiations at Paris were so far ripened that Philip
III. went to Amiens, where Edward joined him. On May 23 both kings agreed to accept the treaty
of Amiens by which the more important of the outstanding difficulties between the two nations
were amicably regulated. By it Philip recognised Eleanor as Countess of Ponthieu, and handed
over a portion of the inheritance of Alfonse of Poitiers to Edward. Agen and the Agenais were
ceded at once, and a commission was appointed to investigate Edward's claims over lower Quercy.
In return for this Edward yielded up his illusory rights over the three bishoprics of Limoges,
Périgueux, and Cahors. It was a real triumph for English diplomacy.

No lasting peace could arise from acts which emphasised the essential incompatibility of French
and English interests by enlarging the territory of the English kings in France. The undercurrent
of hostility still continued; and the proposal of Pope Nicholas III. that Edward should act
as mediator between Philip III. and Alfonso of Castile led to difficulties that deeply incensed
Edward, and embroiled him once more both with France and Spain. Under Angevin influence, both
Philip and Alfonso rejected Edward's mediation in favour of that of the Prince of Salerno,
Charles of Anjou's eldest son. Disgust at this unfriendliness made Edward again support the
plans of Margaret of Provence against the Angevins. In 1281 Margaret's intrigues formed a combination
of feudal magnates called the League of Macon, with the object of prosecuting her claims over
Provence by force of arms. Edward and his mother, Eleanor, his Savoyard kinsfolk, and Edmund
of Lancaster all entered into the league. But it was hopeless for a disorderly crowd of lesser
chieftains, with the nominal support of a distant prince like Edward, to conquer Provence in
the teeth of the hostility of the strongest and the ablest princes of the age. The League of
Macon came to nothing, like so many other ambitious combinations of a time in which men's capacity
to form plans transcended their capacity to execute them. Margaret herself soon despaired of
the way of arms and was bought off by a money compensation. The league mainly served to keep
alive the troubles that still separated England and France. In 1284 Philip gained a new success
in winning the hand of Joan of Champagne, Count Edmund's step-daughter, for his son, the future
Philip the Fair. When Joan attained her majority, Edmund lost the custody of Champagne, which
went to the King of France as the natural protector of his son and his son's bride. With his
brother's withdrawal from Provins to Lancaster, Edward lost one of his means of influencing
the course of French politics.

A compensation for these failures was found in 1282 when the Sicilian vespers rang the knell
of the Angevin power in Sicily. When the revolted islanders chose Peter, King of Aragon, as
their sovereign, Charles, seeking to divert him from Sicily by attacking him at home, inspired
his partisan, Pope Martin IV., to preach a crusade against Aragon. It was in vain that Edward
strove to mediate between the two kings.

The only response made to his efforts was a fantastic proposal that they should fight out their
differences in a tournament at Bordeaux with him as umpire, but Edward refused to have anything
to do with the pseudo-chivalrous venture. At last, in 1285, Philip III. lent himself to his
uncle's purpose so far as to lead a papalist crusade over the Pyrenees. The movement was a
failure. Philip lost his army and his life in Aragon, and his son and successor, Philip IV.,
at once withdrew from the undertaking. In the year of the crusade of Aragon, Charles of Anjou,
Peter of Aragon, and Martin IV. died. With them the struggles, which had begun with the attack
on Frederick II, reached their culminating point. Their successors continued the quarrel with
diminished forces and less frantic zeal, and so gave Edward his best chance to pose as the
arbiter of Europe. Though Edward's continental policy lay so near his heart that it can hardly
be passed over, it was fuller of vain schemes than of great results. Yet it was not altogether
fruitless, since twelve years of resolute and moderate action raised England, which under Henry
III. was of no account in European affairs, to a position only second to that of France, and
that under conditions more nearly approaching the modern conception of a political balance
and a European state system than feudalism, imperialism, and papalism had hitherto rendered
possible.

In domestic policy, seven years of monotonous administration had in a way prepared for vigorous
reforms. Edward's return to England in 1274 was quickly followed by the dismissal of Walter
of Merton, the chancellor of the years of quiescence. He was succeeded by Robert Burnell, who,
though foiled in his quest of Canterbury, obtained an adequate standing by his preferment to
the bishopric of Bath and Wells. For the eighteen years of life which still remained to him,
Bishop Burnell held the chancery and possessed the chief place in Edward's counsels. The whole
of this period was marked by a constant legislative activity which ceased so soon after Burnell's
death that it is tempting to assign at least as large a part of the law-making of the reign
to the minister as to the sovereign. A consummate lawyer and diplomatist, Burnell served Edward
faithfully. Nor was his fidelity impaired either by the laxity which debarred him from higher
ecclesiastical preferment or by his ambitious endeavours to raise the house of Shropshire squires
from which he sprang into a great territorial family. Edward gave him his absolute confidence
and was blind even to his defects.

The first general parliament of the reign to which the king summoned the commons was held at
Westminster in the spring of 1275. Its work was the statute of Westminster the First, a comprehensive
measure of many articles which covered almost the whole field of legislation, and is especially
noteworthy for the care which its compilers took to uphold sound administration and put down
abuses. Not less important was the provision of an adequate revenue for the debt-burdened king.
The same parliament made Edward a permanent grant of a custom on wool, wool-fells, and leather,
which remained henceforth a chief source of the regular income of the crown. The later imposition
of further duties soon caused men to describe the customs of 1275 as the "Great and Ancient
Custom". It was significant of the economic condition of England that the great custom was
a tax on exports, not imports, and that, with the exception of leather, it was a tax on raw
materials. Granted the more willingly since the main incidence of it was upon the foreign merchants,
who bought up English wool for the looms of Flanders and Brabant, the custom proved a source
of revenue which could easily be manipulated, increased, and assigned in advance to the Italian
financiers, willing to lend money to a necessitous king. A new step in our financial history
was attained when this tax on trade steps into the place so long held by the taxes on land,
from which the Normans and Angevins had derived their enormous revenue.

The statute of Westminster the First had a long series of fellows. Next year came the statute
of Rageman, which supplemented an earlier inquest into abuses by instituting a special inquiry
in cases of trespass. In 1277 the first Welsh war interrupted the current of legislation. The
break was compensated for in 1278 by the passing of the important statute of Gloucester, the
consummation of a policy which Edward had adopted as soon as he set foot on English soil. The
troubles of Edward's youth had made clear to him the obstacles thrown in the path of orderly
government by the great territorial franchises. He had been forced to modify his policy to
gratify the lord of Glamorgan, and win over the house of Mortimer by the erection of a new
franchise that was a palatinate in all but name. But such great "regalities" were, after all,
exceptional. Much more irritating to an orderly mind were the innumerable petty immunities
which made half the hundreds in England the appendages of baronial estates, and such common
privileges as "return of writs," which prevented the sheriff's officers from executing his
mandates on numerous manors where the lords claimed that the execution of writs must be entrusted
to their bailiffs.[1] These widespread powers in private hands were the more annoying to the
king since they were commonly exercised with no better warrant than long custom, and without
direct grant from him.

    [1] See on "return of writs" and a host of similar immunities,
    Pollock and Maitland's History of English Law, i., 558-82.

Bracton had already laid down the doctrine that no prescription can avail against the rights
of the crown, and it was a commonplace with the lawyers of the age that nothing less than a
clear grant by royal charter could justify such delegation of the sovereign's powers into private
hands. Within a few months of his landing, Edward sent out commissioners to inquire into the
baronial immunities. The returns of these inquests, which were carried out hundred by hundred,
are embodied in the precious documents called the Hundred Rolls. The study of these reports
inspired the procedure of the statute of Gloucester, by which royal officers were empowered
to traverse the land demanding by what warrant the lords of franchises exercised their powers.
The demand of the crown for documentary proof of royal delegation would have destroyed more
than half the existing liberties. But aristocratic opinion deserted Edward when he strove to
carry out so violent a revolution. The irritation of the whole baronage is well expressed in
the story of how Earl Warenne, unsheathing a rusty sword, declared to the commissioners: "Here
is my warrant. My ancestors won their lands with the sword. With my sword I will defend them
against all usurpers." Nor was this mere boasting. The return of the king's officers tells
us that Warenne would not say of whom, or by what services, he held his Yorkshire stronghold
of Conisborough, and that his bailiffs refused them entrance into his liberties and would not
suffer his tenants to answer or appear before them.[1] Edward found it prudent not to press
his claims. He disturbed few men in their franchises, and was content to have collected the
mass of evidence embodied in the placita de quo warranto, and thus to have stopped the possibility
of any further growth of the franchises. A few years later he accepted the compromise that
continuous possession since the coronation of Richard I. was a sufficient answer to a writ
of quo warranto. In this lies the whole essence of Edward's policy in relation to feudalism,
a policy very similar to that of St. Louis. Every man is to have his own, and the king is not
to inquire too curiously what a man's own was. But no extension of any private right was to
be tolerated. Thus feudalism as a principle of political jurisdiction gradually withered away,
because it was no longer suffered to take fresh root. The later land legislation of Edward's
reign pushed the idea still further.

    [1] Kirkby's Quest for Yorkshire, pp. 3, 227, 231, Surtees
    Soc.

In 1278 it had been the turn of the barons to suffer. Next came the turn of the Church. Though
Edward was a true son of the Church, he saw as clearly as William the Conqueror and Henry II.
the essential incompatibility between the royal supremacy and the pretensions of the extreme
ecclesiastics. The limits of Church and State, the growth of clerical wealth and immunities,
and the relations of the world-power of the pope to the local authority of the king, were problems
which no strong king could afford to neglect, and perhaps were incapable of solution on medieval
lines. Edward saw that the most practical way of dealing with clerical claims was for him to
stand in good personal relations to the chief dispensers of ecclesiastical jurisdiction. With
a pope like Gregory X. it was easy for Edward to be on friendly terms; but it was more difficult
to feel any cordiality for the dogmatic canonists or the furious Guelfic partisans who too
often occupied the chair of St. Peter. Yet Edward was shrewd enough to see that it was worth
while making sacrifices to keep on his side the power which, alike under Innocent III. and
Clement IV., had given valuable assistance to his grandfather and father in their struggle
against domestic enemies. Moreover the enormous growth of the system of papal provisions had
given the papacy the preponderating authority in the selection of the bishops of the English
Church. It was only by yielding to the popes, whenever it was possible, that Edward could secure
the nomination of his own candidates to the chief ecclesiastical posts in his own realm.

In the earlier years of his reign Edward was luckier in his relations to the popes than to
his own archbishops. But he found that his power at Rome broke down just where he wanted to
exercise it most. He was disgusted to find how little influence he had in the selection of
the Archbishops of Canterbury. Gregory X. sent to Canterbury the Dominican Robert Kilwardby,
the first mendicant to hold high place in the English Church. Kilwardby was translated in 1278
to the cardinal bishopric of Porto, a post of greater dignity but less emolument and power
than the English archbishopric. A cardinal bishop was bound to reside at Rome, and the real
motive for this doubtful promotion was the desire to remove Kilwardby from England and to send
a more active man in his place. Edward's indiscreet devotion to Bishop Burnell led him again
to press his friend's claims, but, though he persuaded the monks of Christ Church to elect
him, Nicholas III. quashed the appointment, and selected the Franciscan friar, John Peckham,
as archbishop. Peckham, a famous theologian and physicist, had been a distinguished professor
at Paris, Oxford, and Rome. He was high-minded, honourable and zealous, a saint as well as
a scholar, an enthusiast for Church reform and a vigorous upholder of the extremest hierarchical
pretensions. Fussy, energetic, tactless, he was the true type of the academic ecclesiastic,
and alike in his personal qualities and his wonderful grasp of detail, he may be compared to
Archbishop Laud. Though received by Edward with a rare magnanimity, Friar John allowed no personal
considerations of gratitude to interpose between him and his duty. Reaching England in June,
1279, he presided, within six weeks of his landing, at a provincial council at Reading. In
this gathering canons were passed against pluralities which frightened every benefice hunter
among the clerks of the royal household. Orders were also issued for the periodical denunciation
of ecclesiastical penalties against all violators of the Great Charter in a fashion that suggested
that the king was an habitual offender against the fundamental laws of his realm.

Edward wrathfully laid the usurpations of the new primate before parliament, and forced Peckham
to withdraw all the canons dealing with secular matters, and particularly those which concerned
the Great Charter. The king set up the counter-claims of the State against the pretensions
of the Church, and the estates passed the statute of Mortmain of 1279 as the layman's answer
to the canons of Reading. Like most of Edward's laws the statute of Mortmain was based on earlier
precedents. The wealth of the Church had long inspired statesmen with alarm, and a true follower
of St. Francis like Peckham was specially convinced of the need of reducing the clergy to apostolic
poverty. By the new law all grants of land to ecclesiastical corporations were expressly prohibited,
under the penalty of the land being forfeited to its supreme lord. The statute was not a mere
political weapon of the moment. It had a wider importance as a step in the development of Edward's
anti-feudal policy, and may be regarded as a counterpart of the inquest into franchises, and
as a means of protecting the State as well as of disciplining the Church. A corporation never
died, and never paid reliefs or wardships. Its property never escheated for want of heirs,
and, as scutages were passing out of fashion, ecclesiastics were less valuable to the king
in times of war than lay lords. The recent exigencies of the Welsh war had emphasised the need
of strengthening the military defences of the crown, and the new statute secured this by preventing
the further devolution of lands into the dead hand of the Church. But all medieval laws were
rather enunciations of an ideal than measures which practical statesmen aimed at carrying out
in detail. The statute of Mortmain hardly stayed the creation of fresh monasteries and colleges,
or the further endowment of old ones. All that was necessary for the pious founder was to obtain
a royal dispensation from the operation of the statute. There was little need to fear that
the new law would stand in the way of the power of the ecclesiastical estate.

A more distinct challenge to the Church was provoked by a further aggression of Peckham in
1281. In that year the primate summoned a council at Lambeth, wherein he sought to withdraw
from the cognisance of the civil courts all suits concerning patronage and the disposition
of the personal effects of ecclesiastics. To extend the jurisdiction of the forum ecclesiasticum
was the surest way of exciting the hostility of the common lawyers and the king. Once more
Edward annulled the proceedings of a council, and once more the submission of Peckham saved
the land from a conflict which might have assumed the proportions of Becket's struggle against
Henry II. Four years later Edward pressed his advantage still further by the royal ordinance
of 1285, called Circumspecte agatis, which, though accepting the supremacy of the Church courts
within their own sphere, narrowly defined the limits of their power in matters involving a
temporal element. Again Peckham was fain to acquiesce. His policy had not only irritated the
king, but alienated his fellow bishops. He visited his province with pertinacity and minuteness,
and he was the less able to stand up against the king as he was engaged in violent quarrels
with all his own suffragans. The leader of the bishops in resisting his claims was Thomas of
Cantilupe. Restored to England by the liberal policy of Edward, Montfort's chancellor after
Lewes had been raised to the see of Hereford, where his sanctity and devotion won him the universal
love of his flock. Involved in costly lawsuits with the litigious primate, Thomas was forced
to leave his diocese to plead his cause before the papal curia. He died in Italy in 1282, and
his relics, carried back by his followers to his own cathedral, won the reputation of working
miracles. A demand arose for his canonisation, and Edward before his death had secured the
appointment of the papal commission, which, a few years later, added St. Thomas of Hereford
to the list of saints.[1] Thus the chancellor of Montfort obtained the honour of sanctity through
the action of the victor of Evesham.

    [1] The processus canonisationis of Cantilupe, printed in the
    Bollandist Acta Sanctorum, Oct. 1, 539-705, illustrates many
    aspects of this period.

The second Welsh war interrupted both the conflict between Edward and the archbishop, and the
course of domestic legislation. Yet even in the midst of his campaigns Edward issued the statute
of Acton Burnell of 1283, which provided a better way of recovering merchants' debts, and the
statute of Rhuddlan of 1284 for the regulation of the king's exchequer. The king's full activity
as a lawgiver was renewed after the settlement of his conquest by the statute of Wales of 1284,
and the legislation of his early years culminated in the two great acts of 1285, the statute
of Westminster the Second, and the statute of Winchester. That year, which also witnessed the
passing of the Circumspecte agatis, stands out as the most fruitful in lawmaking in the whole
of Edward's reign.

The second statute of Westminster, passed in the spring parliament, partook of the comprehensive
character of the first statute of that name. There were clauses by which, as the Canon of Oseney
puts it, "Edward revived the ancient laws which had slumbered through the disturbance of the
realm: some corrupted by abuse he restored to their proper form: some less evident and apparent
he declared: some new ones, useful and honourable, he added". Among the more conspicuous innovations
of the second statute of Westminster was the famous clause De donis conditionalibus, which
forms a landmark in the law of real property. It facilitated the creation of entailed estates
by providing that the rights of an heir of an estate, granted upon conditions, were not to
be barred on account of the alienation of such an estate by its previous tenant. Thus arose
those estates for life, which in later ages became a special feature of the English land system,
and which, by restricting the control of the actual possessor of a property over his land,
did much to perpetuate the worst features of medieval land-holding. It is a modern error to
regard the legitimation of estates in tail as a triumph of reactionary feudalism over the will
of Edward. Apart from the fact that there is not a tittle of contemporary evidence to justify
such a view, it is manifest that the interest of the king was in this case exactly the same
as that of each individual lord of a manor. The greater prospect of reversion to the donor,
and the other features of the system of entails, which commended them to the petty baron, were
still more attractive to the king, the greatest proprietor as well as the ultimate landlord
of all the realm. Other articles of the Westminster statute were only less important than the
clause De donis, notable among them being the institution of justices of nisi prius, appointed
to travel through the shires three times a year to hear civil causes. This was part of the
simplification and concentration of judicial machinery, whereby Edward made tolerable the circuit
system which under Henry III. had been a prolific source of grievances.

While in the statute of Westminster Edward prepared for the future, the companion statute of
Winchester, the work of the autumn parliament, revived the jurisdiction of the local courts;
reformed the ancient system of watch and ward, and brought the ancient system of popular courts
into harmony with the jurisdiction emanating from the crown, which had gone so far towards
superseding it. This measure marks the culmination of Edward's activity as a lawgiver. During
the five next years there were no more important statutes.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE CONQUEST OF NORTH WALES.

The treaty of Shrewsbury of 1267 had not brought enduring peace to Wales and the march. The
pacification was in essentials a simple recognition of accomplished facts, but, so far as it
involved promises of restitution and future good behaviour, its provisions were barely carried
out, even in the scanty measure in which any medieval treaty was executed. Moreover, the treaty
by no means covered the whole ground of variance between the English and the Welsh. like the
treaty of Paris of 1259, it was as much the starting-point of new difficulties as the solution
of old ones. Many troublesome questions of detail had been postponed for later settlement,
and no serious effort was made to grapple with them. Even during the life of the old king,
there had been war in the south between the Earl of Gloucester and Llewelyn. However, the Welsh
prince paid, with fair regularity, the instalments of the indemnity to which he had been bound,
and there was no disposition on the part of the English authorities to question the basis of
the settlement. Even the marchers maintained an unwonted tranquillity. They had lost so much
during the recent war that they had no great desire to take up arms again. Llewelyn himself
was the chief obstacle to peace. The brilliant success of his arms and diplomacy seems somewhat
to have turned his brain. Visions of a wider authority constantly floated before him. His bards
prophesied the expulsion of the Saxon, and he had done such great deeds in the first twenty
years of his reign, that a man of more practical temperament might have been forgiven for indulging
in dreams of future success. Three obstacles stood in the way of the development of his power.
These were his vassalage to the English crown, the hostility of the marcher barons, and the
impatience with which the minor Welsh chieftains submitted to his authority. For five years
he impatiently endured these restraints. He then took advantage of the absence of the new king
to rid himself of them.

Five days after the accession of Edward I., the lieutenants of the king received the last payment
of the indemnity which Llewelyn condescended to make. Their demand that the Welsh prince should
take an oath of fealty to his new sovereign was answered by evasive delays. Arrears of the
indemnity accumulated, and the state of the march became more disturbed. The regents showed
moderation, though one of them, Roger Mortimer, had himself been the greatest sufferer from
the treaty of Shrewsbury. In the south, Humphrey Bohun, grandson of the old Earl of Hereford
and earl himself in 1275 by his grandfather's death, was engaged in private war with Llewelyn.
In direct defiance of the terms of 1267, Humphrey strove to maintain himself in the march of
Brecon, which had been definitely ceded to Llewelyn. It was to the credit of the regents that
they refused to countenance this glaring violation of the treaty. Meanwhile Llewelyn busied
himself with erecting a new stronghold on the upper Severn, which was a menace alike to the
royal castle of Montgomery and to his own vassal, Griffith ap Gwenwynwyn, the tributary lord
of Powys. Yet the regents were content to remonstrate, and to urge on all parties the need
of strict adherence to the terms of the treaty. The Earl of Warwick was appointed in the spring
of 1274 as head of a commission, empowered to do justice on all transgressions of the peace,
and Llewelyn was ordered to meet him at Montgomery Ford. But Llewelyn was busy at home, where
his brother David had joined hands with Griffith ap Gwenwynwyn in a plot against him. Llewelyn
easily crushed the conspiracy; David, after a feeble attempt to maintain himself in his own
patrimony, took flight to England, and Griffith of Powys, driven from his dominions, was also
obliged to seek the protection of Edward. Henceforth Llewelyn ruled directly over Powys as
well as Gwynedd. His success encouraged him to persevere in defying his overlord.

Rash as he was, Llewelyn recognised that he was not strong enough to stand up single-handed
against England. Former experience, however, suggested that it was an easy matter to make a
party with the barons against the crown. But times had changed since the Great Charter and
the Barons' War; and a policy, which could obtain concessions from John or Henry III., was
powerless against a king who commanded the allegiance of all his subjects. Yet there was enough
friction between the new king and his feudatories to make the attempt seem feasible, and Llewelyn
revived the Montfort tradition, by claiming the hand of Eleanor, Earl Simon's daughter, which
had been promised to him since 1265. The alarm created by this shows that Edward perceived
the danger that it might involve. But his policy of conciliation had now restored to their
estates the last of the "disinherited," and, since the murder of Henry of Almaine, the name
of Montfort was no longer one to conjure with. The exiled sons of Earl Simon welcomed Llewelyn's
advances, and, in 1275, Eleanor was despatched from France to Wales under the escort of her
clerical brother Amaury. On their way, Eleanor and Amaury were captured by English sailors.
Edward detained the lady at the queen's court, and gave some scandal to the stricter clergy
by shutting up Amaury in Corfe castle. He had foiled the Welsh prince's game, but he had given
him a new grievance.

During these transactions negotiations had been proceeding between the English court and Llewelyn.
In November, 1274, Edward went to Shrewsbury in the hope of receiving the prince, but he was
delayed by illness, and Llewelyn made this an excuse for non-appearance. Next year the king
journeyed to Chester with the same object, but his mission was equally fruitless. Summons after
summons was despatched to the recalcitrant vassal. Llewelyn heeded them no more than requests
to pay up the arrears which he owed the English crown. After two years of hesitation Edward
lost all patience. Irritated to the quick by Llewelyn's offer to perform homage in a border
town on conditions altogether impossible of acceptance, the king summoned a council of magnates
for November 12, 1276, and laid the whole case before them. It was agreed that the king should
go against Llewelyn as a rebel and disturber of the peace; and the feudal levies were summoned
to meet at Worcester on June 24, 1277. As a preliminary to the great effort, Warwick was sent
to Chester, Roger Mortimer to Montgomery, and Payne of Chaworth to Carmarthen. All the available
marcher forces and every trooper of the royal household were despatched to enable them to operate
during the winter and spring. Their movements were brilliantly successful. On the reappearance
of its ancient lord, the middle march threw off the yoke of Llewelyn and went back to its obedience
to Mortimer. Griffith ap Gwenwynwyn was restored to upper Powys; the sons of Griffith of Bromfield
cast off their allegiance to Llewelyn and were received back as direct vassals of the king.
A Tony was once more ruling in Elvael, a Gifford in Llandovery, and a Bohun in Brecon. Rhys
ap Meredith yielded up Dynevor, and was content to be recognised as lord of the humbler stronghold
of Drysllwyn. Chaworth's bands conquered all Cardiganshire. Thus the wider "principality" of
Llewelyn was shattered at the first assault, and when the decisive moment came, Llewelyn was
thrown back upon his hereditary clansmen of Gwynedd. Of all the acquisitions of the treaty
of Shrewsbury, the four cantreds alone still held for their prince.[1]

    [1] On the whole subject of this chapter Mr. J.E. Morris's
    Welsh Wars of Edward I. throws a flood of new light,
    especially on the military history, the organisation of the
    Edwardian army, and the political condition of the march.

When the baronial levies mustered at Worcester, the work was already half accomplished. Of
the thousand lances that there assembled, small forces were detached to help Mortimer in mid
Wales and to reinforce the marcher army in west Wales, which was now commanded by Edmund of
Lancaster, the king's brother. The mass of the troops followed Edward to Chester, whence the
main attack was to be made. Edward's plan of operations was simplicity itself. He knew that
the Welsh desired no pitched battle, and he was indisposed to lose his soldiers in unnecessary
conflict. Swarms of workmen cleared a wide road through the dense forests of the four cantreds.
The route chosen was as near as possible to the coast, where a strong fleet, mainly from the
Cinque Ports, kept up communications with the land forces. The advance was cautious and slow,
with long halts at Flint and at Rhuddlan, where hastily erected forts secured the king's base
and safe-guarded a possible retreat. By the end of August the king was at Deganwy, and the
four cantreds were conquered. During all this time fresh forces were hurried up. Some 15,000
infantry, largely drawn from southern and central Wales, swelled the king's host.

Llewelyn was closely shut up in the Snowdon country. His position was safe enough from a direct
assault, and his only fear was want of provisions. He trusted, however, that supplies would
come in from Anglesea, whose rich cornfields were yellowing for the harvest. But the fleet
of the Cinque Ports cut off communications between Anglesea and the mainland, and ferried over
a strong detachment of Edward's troops, which occupied the island. English harvest-men gathered
for Edward the crops of Welsh corn, and left Llewelyn to face the beginnings of a mountain-winter
without the means of feeding his followers. By September the real fight was over. Edward withdrew
to Rhuddlan and dismissed the greater part of his followers. Enough were left to block the
approaches to Snowdon, and Llewelyn, seeing no gain in further delay, made his submission on
November 9.

The treaty of Aberconway, which Edward dictated, reduced Llewelyn to the position of a petty
North Welsh chieftain, which he had held thirty years before. He gave up the homage of the
greater Welsh magnates, and resigned all his former conquests. The four cantreds thus passed
away from his power, and even Anglesea was only allowed to him for life and subject to a yearly
tribute. He was compelled to do homage, and ordered to pay a crushing indemnity, twice as much
as the expenses of the war. But Edward was in a generous mood. After Llewelyn's personal submission
at Rhuddlan, the king remitted the indemnity and the rent for Anglesea. It was a boon to Llewelyn
that the treacherous David received his reward not' in Gwynedd itself but in Duffryn Clwyd
and Rhuvoniog, two of the four cantreds of the Perveddwlad. Llewelyn's humiliation was completed
by his enforced attendance at Edward's Christmas court at Westminster. Next year, however,
he received a further sign of royal favour. He was allowed to marry Eleanor Montfort, and Edward
himself was present at their wedding. But on the morning of the ceremony, Llewelyn was forced
to make a promise not to entertain the king's fugitives and outlaws.

The treaty of Aberconway left Edward free to revive in the rest of Wales the policy which,
when originally begun in 1254,[1] had, like a rising flood, floated Llewelyn into his wider
principality. The lords marchers resumed their ancient limits. Princes like Griffith of Powys
and Rhys of Drysllwyn sank into a position which is indistinguishable from that of their Anglo-Norman
neighbours. David, in the vale of Clwyd had no better prospects. The heirs of lower Powys were
put under the guardianship of Roger Mortimer's younger son, another Roger, who, on the death
of his wards by drowning, received possession of their lands, and henceforth, as Roger Mortimer
of Chirk, became a new marcher baron. Meanwhile Edward busied himself with schemes for establishing
settled government in the conquered territories. To a man of his training and temperament,
this meant the establishment of English law and administration. He could see no merits in the
archaic Welsh customs which regarded all crimes as capable of atonement by a money payment,
treated a wrecked ship as the lawful perquisite of the local proprietor, and hardly distinguished
legitimate from illegitimate children in determining the descent of property. He convinced
himself that the land laws of Wales were already those of Anglo-Norman feudalism. He subjected
the cantreds of Rhos and Englefield to the Cheshire county court, and breathed a new life into
the decayed shire organisation of Cardiganshire and Carmarthenshire. Flint and Rhuddlan dominated
the two former, Aberystwyth and Carmarthen the latter. Round the king's castles grew up petty
boroughs of English traders, who would, it was believed, teach the Welsh to love commerce and
peaceful ways.

    [1] See page 76.

For five years all seemed to go well, though underneath the apparent calm a storm was gradually
gathering. The Welsh of the ceded districts bitterly resented the imposition of a strange yoke
and complained that the king had broken his promise to respect their laws. "Are the Welsh worse
than Jews?" was their cry, "and yet the king allows the Jews to follow their own laws in England."
But Edward coldly answered that, though it would be a breach of his coronation oath to maintain
customs of Howel the Good, which were contrary to the Decalogue, he was willing to listen to
specific complaints. It was, however, a very difficult matter to persuade Edward's bailiffs
and agents to carry out his commands, and many acts of oppression were wrought for which there
was no redress. Nobles like David and Rhys found their franchises threatened by the encroachments
of the neighbouring shire-courts. Lesser Welshmen were liable to be robbed and insulted by
the workmen who were building Edward's castles, or by the soldiers who were garrisoning them.
At last even the Welsh who had helped Edward to put down Llewelyn saw that they had been preparing
their own ruin, and turned to their former enemy for the redress refused them at Westminster.
David himself made common cause with his brother, and the spirit of resistance spread among
the half-hearted Cymry of the south. Edward's oppression did more than Llewelyn's triumphs
to weld together the Welsh clans into a single people. A rising was planned in the strictest
secrecy; and on the eve of Palm Sunday, March 21, 1282, David swooped down on Hawarden, a weak
castle in private hands, and captured it. Llewelyn promptly crossed the Conway and turned his
arms against the royal strongholds of Flint and Rhuddlan, which withstood him, though he devastated
the countryside in every direction. Meanwhile David hurried south and found the local lords
in Cardigan and the vale of Towy already in arms. With their help he captured the castles of
the upper Towy, but lower down the river Rhys remained staunch to the king, whereupon David
hurried over the hills to Cardiganshire and took Aberystwyth. North and south were in full revolt.

Edward, taken unawares, prepared to reassert his authority. Certain faithful barons were "affectionately
requested" to serve the king for pay, and a fairly large army was gathered together, though
the scattered character of the rebellion necessitated its acting in small bands. Meanwhile
the military tenants and the Cinque Ports were summoned to join in an attack on Llewelyn on
the lines of the campaign of 1277. Edward's task was more difficult than on the previous occasion.
Though Rhuddlan, not Chester as in 1277, had become his starting-point against Gwynedd, he
dared not advance so long as David threatened his left flank from Denbigh, and the rising in
the south was far more formidable than that of five years before. A considerable part of the
levies had to be despatched to the help of Earl Gilbert of Gloucester, who was charged with
the reconquest of the vale of Towy. On June 17 as the earl's soldiers were returning, laden
with plunder, to their headquarters at Dynevor, they were suddenly attacked by the Welsh at
Llandilo, and were driven back on their base. Gloucester hastily retreated to Carmarthen. He
was superseded by William of Valence, whose activity against the Welsh had been quickened by
the loss of his son at Llandilo. Llewelyn then came south, and pressed the English so hard
that for several weeks nothing of moment was accomplished.

The advance against Gwynedd was delayed until the late summer. Edward still tarried at Rhuddlan,
with a host constantly varying in numbers, for his soldiers had long overpassed the period
of feudal service. Every effort was made to bring fresh troops to the field, and Luke de Tany,
seneschal of Gascony, came upon the scene with a small levy of the chivalry of Aquitaine. To
Tany was assigned the task of conquering Anglesey, but it was not until September that he was
able to occupy the island. In the same month a strenuous effort was made to dislodge the hostile
Welsh in the vale of Clwyd; the Earl of Lincoln at last took Denbigh from David; Reginald Grey,
justice of Chester, captured Ruthin, higher up the valley, and Earl Warenne seized Bromfield
and Yale. Each noble fought for his own hand, and Edward was forced to reward their services
by immediately granting to them their conquests, and thus created a new marcher interest which,
later on, stood in the way of an effective settlement. But things were getting desperate, and
it was well for Edward that the security of his left flank at last enabled him to advance to
the Conway. Thereupon Llewelyn returned to Snowdon, where he was joined by the homeless David.
Meanwhile Tany, then master of Anglesey, opened up communications with the coast of Arvon by
a bridge of boats over the Menai Straits. Winter was already at hand when Llewelyn and his
brother were at last shut up amidst the fastnesses of Snowdon.

Late in October Archbishop Peckham appeared on the scene. He had excommunicated Llewelyn at
the beginning of the war, but was still anxious to negotiate a peace. Edward did his best to
put him off, but Peckham's importunity extorted from him a short truce, during which the primate
visited Snowdon, taking with him an offer of an ample estate in England if the prince would
surrender his patrimony. Llewelyn furnished Peckham with long catalogues of grievances. He
was quite willing to gain time by discussing his wrongs.

Edward's army shared his irritation at Peckham's interference, and, while the archbishop was
still in Snowdon, a breach of the truce destroyed any hopes of peace. On November 6 Tany led
his troops over the bridge of boats at low water and marched inland. But his operations were
ill-planned, and the Welsh came down from the hills and easily put him to flight. Meanwhile
the tide had risen and the flood cut off access to the bridge over the Menai. In their panic
the soldiers rushed into the water rather than face the enemy. Many leading men were drowned,
including Tany himself, the author of the treachery. Flushed with this success Llewelyn rejected
Peckham's terms. In great disgust the archbishop went back to England, bitterly denouncing
the Welsh. But defeat only strengthened the iron resolution of Edward. He issued fresh summonses
for men and money. Contrary to all precedent, he determined to continue the campaign through
the winter.

Llewelyn was probably ignorant of the perilous plight into which the king had fallen. With
the approach of bad weather he became afraid that he would be starved out in Snowdon. Any risk
was better than being caught like a rat in a trap, and, fearing lest a cordon should be drawn
round the mountains, he made his way southwards, leaving David in command. His enemy, Roger
Mortimer, was just dead, and Mortimer's eldest son Edmund, a youth brought up for the clerical
profession, was not likely to hold the middle marches with the same strong grasp as his father.
Thither accordingly Llewelyn made his way, hoping that on his approach the tribesmen of the
upper Wye, over whom he had ruled so long, would abandon their English lord for their Cymric
chieftain. A force gathered round him, and he occupied a strong position on a hill overlooking
the river Yrvon, which flows into the right bank of the Wye, just above Builth. The right bank
of the Yrvon was held by the English of Builth. But the only way over the stream was by Orewyn
bridge, which was held by a detachment of the Welsh. Their position seemed so secure that,
on December 11, Llewelyn left his troops to confer with some of the local chieftains. The English
were, however, shown a ford over the river; a band crossed in safety, and, taking the defenders
of Orewyn bridge in the rear, opened up the passage over it to their comrades. The English
ascended the hill, their mail-clad squadrons interlaced with archers, in order that the Welsh
infantry might be assailed by missiles before they were exposed to the shock of a cavalry charge.
In the absence of their leader, the Welsh were a helpless mass of sheep, and were easily put
to flight. Meanwhile Llewelyn, hearing the din of battle, hurried back to direct his followers.
On the way he was slain by Stephen of Frankton, a Shropshire veteran of the Barons' War, who
fought under the banner of Roger l'Estrange. The discovery of important papers on the body
first told the conquerors the rank of their victim.

Thus perished the able and strenuous chief, who had struggled so long to win for himself in
Wales a position similar to that occupied by the King of Scots in the north. His death did
not end, but it much simplified, the struggle. The south and midland districts were entirely
subdued, and the interest of the war again shifted to the mountains of Snowdon, where David
strove to maintain himself as Prince of Wales. His best chance lay in the exhaustion of his
enemy, but Edward stuck grimly to his task. His coffers were exhausted, and his army for the
most part went home. Yet Edward tarried at Rhuddlan for over six months, dividing his energy
between watching the Welsh and replenishing his treasure and troops. His treasurer, John Kirkby,
wandered from shire to shire soliciting voluntary contributions. Then in January, 1283, an
anomalous parliament was summoned, consisting mainly of ecclesiastics, knights of the shire,
and burgesses, and meeting in two divisions, at York and at Northampton, according as the members
came from the northern or southern ecclesiastical provinces. The grant of a thirtieth so little
satisfied the king that he laid violent hands on the crusading-tenth, which was deposited in
the Temple. Meanwhile the chivalry of Gascony and Ponthieu were tempted by high wages to supply
the void left by the retirement of the English.

Early in 1283 a gallant force from beyond sea, among which figured the Counts of Armagnac and
Bigorre, reached Rhuddlan. After their arrival the king took the offensive, crossed the Conway
and transferred his headquarters to the Cistercian abbey of Aberconway. Fearful once more of
being enclosed in the mountains, David sought a new hiding-place among the heights of Cader
Idris. He shifted his quarters to the castle of Bere, hidden away in a remote valley sloping
down from the mountain to the sea. The unwearied Edward once more issued summonses for a fresh
campaign. David was at the extremity of his resources. Before the new arrivals enabled Edward
to move, William of Valence marched up from the south, and in April forced Bere to surrender.
David fled before the siege began; but he was a fugitive without an army, and the campaign
was reduced to a weary tracking out of the last little bands that still scorned to surrender.
In June David was betrayed by men of his own tongue, and Edward summoned for Michaelmas at
Shrewsbury a parliament whose chief business was the trial of David. On October 3 the last
Cymric Prince of Wales suffered the ignominious doom of a traitor, a murderer, and a blasphemer.
The magnates then adjourned to the chancellor's neighbouring seat of Acton Burnell, where the
rejoicings incident to the king's visit to his friend's new mansion were combined with passing
the statute of Merchants.

Edward's love of thoroughness made him linger in Wales to settle the government of the newly
won lands. His first care was to hold Snowdon with the ring of fortresses which, in their ruin,
still bear abiding witness to the solidity of the conqueror's work. Round each castle arose
a new town, created as artificially as were the bastides of Aquitaine, within whose walls English
traders and settlers were tempted by high privileges to take up their abodes, and whose strictly
military character was emphasised by the general provision that the constable of the castle
was to be ex officio the mayor of the municipality. Chief among these was Aberconway, whose
strategic importance Edward understood so fully that he forced the Cistercian monks to take
up new quarters at Maenan, higher up the valley, in order that there might be room for the
castle and town which were henceforth to guard the entrance to Snowdon. Equally important was
the future capital of Gwynedd, Carnarvon, where on April 25, 1284, a son was born to Edward
and Eleanor, who seventeen years later was to become the first English Prince of Wales. Elsewhere
fortresses of Welsh origin were rebuilt and enlarged to complete the stone circuit round the
mountains. Such were Criccieth, the key of Lleyn; Dolwyddelen, which dominated the upper Conway;
and Harlech and Bere, the two strongholds that curbed the mountaineers of Merioneth. In the
south the same policy was carried out. Alike in Gwynedd and in the vale of Towy, both in his
castle building and in his town foundations, Edward was simply carrying on the traditions of
earlier ages, and applying to his new lands those principles of government which, since the
Norman Conquest, had become the tradition of the marcher lords. Even in his architectural schemes
there was nothing novel in Edward's policy. Gilbert of Gloucester at Caerphilly, and Payne
of Chaworth at Kidwelly, had already worked out the pattern of "concentric" defences that were
to find their fullest expression in the new castles of the principality. In each of these strongholds
an adequate garrison of highly trained and well-paid troops kept the Welsh in check.

The civil government of the Edwardian conquests was provided for by the statute of Wales, issued
on Mid-Lent Sunday, 1284, at Rhuddlan, Edward's usual headquarters. It declared that the land
of Wales, heretofore subject to the crown in feudal right, was entirely transferred to the
king's dominion. To the whole of the annexed districts the English system of shire government
was extended, though such local customs as appealed to Edward's sense of justice were suffered
to be continued. Gwynedd and its appurtenances were divided into the three shires of Anglesey,
Carnarvon, and Merioneth, and were collectively put under the justice of Snowdon, whose seat
was to be at Carnarvon, where courts of chancery and exchequer for north Wales were set up.
The shires of Cardigan and Carmarthen were re-organised so as to include the southern districts
which had been subject to Llewelyn, or to the Welsh lords who had fallen with him. These were
put under the justice of west Wales, whose chancery and exchequer were established at Carmarthen.
It is significant that Edward prepared the way for making these districts into shires by persuading
his brother Edmund, to whom they had been granted, to abandon his claims over them in return
for ample compensation elsewhere. Without this step the new shires would only have been palatinates
of the Glamorgan or Pembroke type, and the creation of such franchises was directly contrary
to Edward's policy. It was different in the vale of Clwyd, where it would have been natural
for Edward to have extended the shire system to the four cantreds. Military exigences had,
however, already erected most of these lands into new marcher lordships, and Edward was perforce
content with the union of some fragments of Rhos to the shire of Carnarvon, and with joining
together Englefield and some adjoining districts in the new county of Flint. This arrangement
secured the strongholds of Flint and Rhuddlan for the king. But the district was too small
to make it worth while to set up a separate organisation for it, and Flintshire was put under
the justice and courts of Chester, so that it became a dependency of the neighbouring palatinate.[1]

    [1] For the shires of Walessee my paper on The Welsh Shires
    in Y Cymmrodor, ix. (1888), 201-26.

The lordships of the march were not directly influenced by this legislation. They continued
to hold their position as franchises until the reign of Henry VIII., and under Edward III.
were declared by statute to be no part of the principality but directly subject to the English
crown. Yet the removal of the pressure of a native principality profoundly affected these districts.
The policy of definition made its mark even here. The liberties of each marcher were defined
and circumscribed, and, while scrupulously respected, were incapable of further extension.
The vague jurisdictions of the sheriffs of the border shires were cleared up, and if this process
involved some limitation of the royal authority in districts like Clun and Oswestry, which
virtually ceased to be parts of Shropshire, there was a compensating advantage in the increased
clearness with which the border line was drawn and the royal authority consolidated. Gradually
the marcher lordships passed by lapse into the royal hands, and even from the beginning there
were regions, such as Montgomery and Builth, which knew no lord but the king. All this was,
however, an indirect result of the Edwardian conquest. Strictly speaking it was no conquest
of all Wales but merely of the principality, the ancient dominions of Llewelyn, to which most
of the crown lands in Wales were joined.

Ecclesiastical settlement followed the political reorganisation. Peckham was as zealous as
Edward in compelling the conquered to follow the law-abiding traditions of the king's ancient
inheritance. He laboured strenuously for the rebuilding of churches, the preservation and extension
of ecclesiastical property, the education of the clergy, and the extirpation of clerical matrimony
and simony. Despite his unsympathetic attitude, he did good work for the Welsh Church by his
manful resistance to all attempts of Edward and his subordinates to encroach upon her liberties.
He quaintly thought it would promote the civilisation of Wales if the people were forced to
"learn civility" by living in towns and sending their children to school in England. His assiduous
visitation of the Welsh dioceses in 1284 did something to kindle zeal, and win the Welsh clergy
from the idleness wherein, he believed, lay the root of all their shortcomings.

In the autumn of 1284 Edward went on an extended progress in Wales. He passed through the four
cantreds into Gwynedd, and thence worked his way southwards through Cardigan and Carmarthen,
ending his tour by visits to the marcher lords of the south. He crossed over from Glamorgan,
where he had been entertained by Gilbert of Clare, to Bristol, where he held his Christmas
court. Wales was to see no more of its new ruler for seven years. During that time the principality
gave Edward little trouble, though the marchers, as will be seen, were a constant anxiety to
him. In 1287, while Edward was in Gascony, the regent, Edmund of Cornwall, was called upon
to deal with a revolt of Rhys, son of Meredith, the loyalist lord of the vale of Towy, who
resented the authority of the justice of Carmarthen over his patrimony. His grievances were
those of a marcher rather than those of a Welshman. Yet his rising in 1287 was formidable enough
to require the raising of a great army for its suppression. The Welsh chieftain could not long
hold out against the odds brought against him, and the confiscation of his lands swelled the
district directly depending on the sheriff of Carmarthen. The support of the countryside enabled
Rhys to evade his pursuers for nearly three years. At last he was captured, and with the execution
of the last of the lords of Dynevor, the triumph of Edward became complete.

CHAPTER IX.

THE SICILIAN AND THE SCOTTISH ARBITRATIONS.

Edward I. had now attained the height of his fame. He had conquered Llewelyn; he had reformed
the administration; he had put himself as a lawmaker in the same rank as St. Louis or Frederick
II.; and he had restored England to a leading position in the councils of Europe. Moreover,
he had won a character for justice and fairness which did him even greater service, since the
several deaths of prominent sovereigns during 1285 left him almost alone of his generation
among princes of a lesser stature. Of the chief rulers of Europe in the early years of Edward's
reign, Rudolf of Hapsburg alone survived; and the King of the Romans had little weight outside
Germany many. Edward had outlived his brother-in-law Alfonso of Castile, his cousin Philip
the Bold, his uncle Charles of Anjou, and Peter of Aragon. But the conflicts, in which these
kings had been engaged, were continued by their successors. Above all, the contest for Sicily
still raged. The successors of Martin IV., though deprived of the active support of France,
would not abandon the claims of the captive Charles of Salerno; and James of Aragon, Peter's
second son, maintained himself in Sicily, despite papal censures and despite the virtual desertion
of his cause by his elder brother, Alfonso III., the new king of Aragon. Each side was at a
standstill, though each side struggled on. The personal hatreds, which made it impossible to
reconcile the older generation, were dying out, and the chief obstacle in the way of a settlement
was the stubbornness of the papacy. If any one could reconcile the quarrel, it was the King
of England; and to him Charles' sons and the nobles of his dominions appealed to procure his
release.

Edward was anxious to proffer his services as a peacemaker, dream of a Europe, united for the
liberation of the holy places, had not been expelled from his mind by his schemes for the advancement
of his kingdom. If he could inspire his neighbour kings with something of his spirit, the crusade
might still be possible. Other matters also called Edward's attention to the continent. He
had to do homage to the new French king; he had to press for the execution of the treaty of
Amiens, and his presence was again necessary in Gascony. His realm was in such profound peace
that he could safely leave it. Accordingly in May, 1286, he took ship for France. With him
went his wife Eleanor of Castile, his chancellor Bishop Burnell, and a large number of his
nobles. He entrusted the regency to his cousin, Edmund, Earl of Cornwall, the son and successor
of Earl Richard; and England saw him no more until August, 1289. Edward first made his way
to Amiens, where he met the new King of France, Philip the Fair. The two kings went together
to Paris, where Edward spent two months. There he performed homage for Gascony, and made a
new agreement as to the execution of the treaty of Amiens, by which he renounced his claims
over Quercy for a money payment, and was put in possession of Saintonge, south of the Charente.
The settlement was the easier as for the moment neither king had his supreme interest in Gascony.
Edward's real business was to make peace between Anjou and Aragon, and Philip IV. showed every
desire to help him. Before Edward left Paris, he had negotiated a truce between the Kings of
France and Aragon. Soon afterwards he went to Bordeaux. He made Gascony his headquarters for
three years, and strove with all his might to convert the truce into a peace.

Grave obstacles arose, chief among which was the determination of the papacy to make no terms
with the King of Aragon so long as his brother still reigned over Sicily. Honorius IV., in
approving Edward's preliminary action, and exhorting him to obtain the liberation of the Prince
of Salerno, carefully guarded himself against recognising the schismatic Aragonese. Edward
himself was no partisan of either side. He was heartily anxious for peace and desirous to free
his kinsman from the rigours of his long imprisonment. His wish for a close alliance between
England and Aragon was unacceptable to the partisanship both of Honorius IV. and his successor
Nicholas IV. Papal coldness, however, did not turn Edward from his course. In the summer of
1287 he met Alfonso at Oloron in Béarn, where a treaty was drawn up by which the Aragonese
king agreed to release Charles of Salerno on condition that he would either, within three years,
procure from the pope the recognition of James in Sicily, or return to captivity and forfeit
Provence. Besides this, an alliance between England and Aragon was to be cemented by the marriage
of one of Edward's daughters to Alfonso. Delighted with the success of his undertaking, Edward,
on his return to Bordeaux, again took the cross and prepared to embark on the crusade.

Nicholas IV. interposed between Edward and his vows by denouncing the treaty of Oloron.[1]
Though well-meaning, he was not strong enough to shake himself free from partisan traditions,
and though honestly anxious to bring about a crusade, he could not see that he made the holy
war impossible by interposing obstacles in the way of the one prince who seriously intended
to take the cross. While denouncing Edward's treaty, Nicholas encouraged his crusading zeal
by granting him a new ecclesiastical tenth for six years, a tax made memorable by the fact
that it occasioned the stringent valuation of benefices, called the taxation of Pope Nicholas,
which was the standard clerical rate-book until the reign of Henry VIII. Despite the pope,
Edward still persevered in his mediation, and in October, 1288, a new treaty for Charles' liberation
was signed at Canfranc, in Aragon, which only varied in details from the agreement of 1287.
Charles was released, but he straightway made his way to Rome, where Nicholas absolved him
from his oath and crowned him King of Sicily. Edward was bitterly disappointed. He tarried
in the south until July, 1289, usefully employed in promoting the prosperity of his duchy,
crushing conspiracies, furthering the commerce of Bordeaux, and founding new bastides. At last
tidings of disorder at home called him back to his kingdom before the purpose of his continental
sojourn had been accomplished. But he still pressed on his thankless task, and in 1291 peace
was made at Tarascon, between Aragon and the Roman see, on the hard condition of Alfonso abandoning
his brother's cause. On Alfonso's death soon afterwards the war was renewed, for James then
united the Sicilian and Aragonese thrones and would not yield up either. It was not until 1295
that Boniface VIII., a stronger pope than Nicholas, ended the struggle on terms which left
the stubborn Aragonese masters of Sicily.

    [1] For his policy, see O. Schiff, Studien zur Geschichte P.
    Nikolaus IV. (1897).

Things had not gone well in England during Edward's absence. Edmund of Cornwall had shown vigour
in putting down the revolt of Rhys, but he was not strong enough to control either the greater
barons or the officers of the crown. Grave troubles were already brewing in Scotland. A fierce
quarrel between the Earls of Gloucester and Hereford broke out with regard to the boundaries
of Glamorgan and Brecon, and the private war between the two marchers proved more formidable
to the peace of the realm than the revolt of the Welsh prince. Even more disastrous to the
country was the scandalous conduct of the judges and royal officials, who profited by the king's
absence to pile up fortunes at the expense of his subjects. The highest judges of the land
forged charters, condoned homicides, sold judgments, and practised extortion and violence.
A great cry arose for the king's return. In the Candlemas parliament of 1289 Earl Gilbert of
Gloucester met a request for a general aid by urging that nothing should be granted until Englishmen
once more saw the king's face. Alarmed at this threat, Edward returned, and landed at Dover
on August 12, 1289.

The whole situation was changed by the king's arrival. Edward met the innumerable complaints
against his subordinates by dismissing nearly all the judges from office, and appointing a
special commission to investigate the charges brought against royal officials of every rank.
Thomas Weyland, chief justice of the common pleas, anticipated inquiry by taking sanctuary
with the Franciscan friars of Bury St. Edmunds. A knight and a married man, he had taken subdeacon's
orders in early life and sought to little purpose to be protected by his clergy. His refuge
was watched by the local sheriffs; finally, he was starved into surrender, and suffered to
abjure the realm.[1] He fled to France, whence he never returned. For some years the commission
investigated the offences of the ministers of the crown. Though much that was irregular was
proved against them, many charges broke down under inquiry, and, as time went on, the official
class saw that their interest lay in condoning rather than in punishing scandals. Some of the
worst offenders, such as the greedy and corrupt Adam of Stratton, were never restored to office;[2]
but Hengham, the chief justice of the King's Bench, was soon reinstated. There were not enough
good lawyers in England to make it prudent for Edward to dispense with the services of such
a man. A rigorous maintenance of a high standard of official morality meant getting rid of
nearly all the king's ministers, and any successors would have been inferior in experience
and not superior in honesty. Edward had to work with such material as he had, and on the whole
he made the best of it. Scandalous as were the proceedings of his agents, their iniquities
are but trifles as compared with the offences of the counsellors of Philip the Fair.

    [1] For the abjuratio regni see A. Réville in the Revue
    Historique, 1. (1892), 1-42.

    [2] For Adam of Stratton see Hall, Red Book of the Exchequer,
    iii., cccxv.-cccxxxi. Extracts from the Assize rolls recording
    the proceedings of the special commission will soon be
    published by the Royal Historical Society.

Fear of Edward drove nobles into obedience as well as ministers into honesty. Gloucester desisted
unwillingly from his attacks on Brecon, and was constrained to divorce his wife and marry the
king's daughter, Joan of Acre. In becoming the king's son-in-law, he was forced to surrender
his estates to the crown, receiving them back entailed on the heirs of the marriage or, in
their default, on the heirs of Joan. Thus the system of entails made possible by the statute
De donis was used by Edward to strengthen his hold over the most powerful of his feudatories
and increase the prospect of his estates escheating to the crown. Considered in this light,
Gilbert's marriage with the king's daughter seems less a reward of loyalty than a punishment
for lawlessness. In the same year as this marriage, Edward passed another law directed against
the baronage. This was the statute of Westminster the Third, called from its opening words,
Quia emptores. It enacted that, when part of an estate was alienated by its lord, the grantee
should not be permitted to become the subtenant of the grantor, but should stand to the ultimate
lord of the fief in the same feudal relation as the grantor himself. This prohibition of further
subinfeudation stopped the creation of new manors and prevented the rivetting of new links
in the feudal chain, which were the necessary condition of its strength. Though passed at the
request of the barons, it was a measure much more helpful to the king than to his vassals.
It stood to the barons as the statute of Mortmain stood to the Church.

Edward was bent on showing that he was master, and his new son-in-law and the Earl of Hereford
became the victims of his policy. He forced the reluctant Gloucester to admit that the pretensions
of the lord of Glamorgan to be the overlord of the bishop of LLandaff and the guardian of the
temporalities of the see during a vacancy were usurpations. Seeing that his marcher prerogatives
were thus rapidly becoming undermined, Gloucester put the most cherished marcher right to the
test by renewing the private war with the Earl of Hereford which had disturbed the realm during
Edward's absence. The king issued peremptory orders for the immediate cessation of hostilities.
These mandates Hereford obeyed, but Gloucester did not. Resolved that law not force was henceforth
to settle disputes in the march, Edward summoned a novel court at Ystradvellte, in Brecon,
wherein a jury from the neighbouring shires and liberties was to decide the case between the
two earls in the presence of the chief marchers. Gloucester refused to appear, and the marchers
declined to take part in the trial, pleading that it was against their liberties. The case
was adjourned to give the recalcitrants every chance, and after a preliminary report by the
judges, Edward resolved to hear the suit in person. In October, 1291, he presided at Abergavenny
over the court before which the earls were arraigned. They were condemned to imprisonment and
forfeiture. Content with humbling their pride and annihilating their privileges, Edward suffered
them to redeem themselves from captivity by the payment of heavy fines, and before long gave
them back their lands. The king's victory was so complete that neither of the earls could forgive
it. In 1295, Gloucester died, without opportunity of revenge; but Hereford lived on, brooding
over his wrongs, and in later years signally avenged the trial at Abergavenny. Meanwhile the
conqueror of the principality had shown unmistakably that the liberties of the march were an
anachronism, since the marchers had no longer the work of defending English interests against
the Welsh nation.[1]

    [1] Mr. J.E. Morris in chap. vi. of his Welsh Wars of Edward
    I. has admirably summarised this suit. See also G.T. Clark's
    Land of Morgan.

Another measure that followed Edward's home-coming was the expulsion of the Jews. Despite constant
odium and intermittent persecution, the Jewish financiers who had settled in England after
the Norman conquest steadily improved their position down to the reign of Henry III. The personal
dependants of the crown, they were well able to afford to share their gains from usury with
their protectors. They lived in luxury, built stone houses, set up an organisation of their
own, and even purchased lands. Henry III.'s financial embarrassments forced him to rely upon
them, and the alliance of the Jews and the crown stimulated the religious bigotry of the popular
party to ill-treat the Jews during the Barons' War. Stories of Jews murdering Christian children
were eagerly believed; and the cult of St. Hugh of Lincoln and St. William of Norwich,[1] two
pretended victims of Hebrew cruelty, testified to the hatred which Englishmen bore to the race.

    [1] See for this saint, Thomas of Monmouth, Life and Miracles
    of St. William of Norwich, ed. Jessopp and James (1896).

Under Edward I. the condition of the Jews became more precarious. The king hated them alike
on religious and economical grounds. He rigorously insisted that they should wear a distinctive
dress, and at last altogether prohibited usury. Driven from their chief means of earning their
living, the Jews had recourse to clipping and sweating the coin. Indiscriminate severities
did little to abate these evils. Meanwhile active missionary efforts were made to win over
the Jews to the Christian faith. They were compelled to listen to long sermons from mendicant
friars, and their obstinacy in adhering to their own creed was denounced as a deliberate offence
against the light. Peckham shut up their synagogues, and Eleanor of Provence, who had entered
a convent, joined with the archbishop in urging her son to take severe measures against them.
There was a similar movement in France, and Edward, during his long stay abroad, had expelled
the Jews from Aquitaine. In 1290 he applied the same policy to England, and their exile was
so popular an act that parliament made him a special grant as a thankoffering. But though Edward
thus drove the Jews to seek new homes beyond sea, he allowed them to carry their property with
them, and punished the mariners who took advantage of the helplessness of their passengers
to rob and murder them. Though individual Jews were found from time to time in England during
the later middle ages, their official re-establishment was only allowed in the seventeenth
century.[1]

    [1] For the Jews see J. Jacobs, Jews in Angevin England;
    Tovey, Anglia Judaica; J.M. Rigg, Select Pleas of the Jewish
    Exchequer; and for their exile B.L. Abrahams, Expulsion of
    the Jews from England in 1290.

Two generations at least before their expulsion, the Jews had been outrivalled in their financial
operations by societies of Italian bankers, whose admirable organisation and developed system
of credit enabled them to undertake banking operations of a magnitude quite beyond the means
of the Hebrews. First brought into England as papal agents for remitting to Rome the spoils
of the Church, they found means of evading the canonical prohibitions of usury, and became
the loanmongers of prince and subject alike. To the crown the Italians were more useful than
the Jews had been. The value of the Jews to the monarch had been in the special facilities
enjoyed by him in taxing them. The utility of the Italian societies was in their power of advancing
sums of money that enabled the king to embark on enterprises hitherto beyond the limited resources
of the medieval state. The Italians financed all Edward's enterprises from the crusade of 1270
to his Welsh and Scottish campaigns. From them Edward and his son borrowed at various times
sums amounting to almost half a million of the money of the time. In return the Italians, chief
among whom was the Florentine Society of the Frescobaldi, obtained privileges which made them
as deeply hated as ever the Hebrews had been.[1]

    [1] See on this subject E.A. Bond's article in Archæologia,
    vol. xxviii., pp. 207-326; W.E. Rhodes, Italian Bankers in
    England under Edward I. and II. in Owens Coll. Historical
    Essays, pp. 137-68; and R.J. Whitwell, Italian Bankers and
    the English Crown in Transactions of Royal Hist. Soc., N.S.,
    xvii. (1903), pp. 175-234.

Among the troubles which had called Edward back from Gascony was the condition of Scotland,
where a long period of prosperity had ended with the death of Edward's brother-in-law, Alexander
III., in 1286. Alexander III. attended his brother-in-law's coronation in 1274, and the irritation
excited by his limiting his homage to his English lordships of Tynedale and Penrith did not
cause any great amount of friction. But the homage question was only postponed, and at Michaelmas,
1278, Alexander was constrained to perform unconditionally this unwelcome act. "I, Alexander
King of Scotland," were his words, "become the liege man of the lord Edward, King of England,
against all men." But by carefully refraining from specifying for what he became Edward's vassal,
Alexander still suggested that it was for his English lordships. Edward with equal caution
declared that he received the homage, "saving his right and claim to the homage of Scotland
when he may wish to speak concerning it". Both parties were content with mutual protestations.
Edward was so friendly to Alexander that he allowed him to appoint Robert Bruce, Earl of Carrick,
his proxy in professing fealty, so as to minimise the king's feeling of humiliation. The King
of Scots went home loaded with presents, and for the rest of his life his relations with Edward
remained cordial.

The closing years of Alexander's reign were overshadowed by domestic misfortunes and the prospects
of difficulties about the succession. His wife, Margaret of England, had died in 1275, and
was followed to the tomb by their two sons, Alexander and David. A delicate girl, Margaret,
then alone represented the direct line of the descendants of William the Lion. Margaret was
married, when still young, to Eric, King of Norway, and died in 1283 in giving birth to her
only child, a daughter named Margaret. No children were born of Alexander's second marriage;
and in March, 1286, the king broke his neck, when riding by night along the cliffs of the coast
of Fife. Before his death, however, he persuaded the magnates of Scotland to recognise his
granddaughter as his successor. The Maid of Norway, as Margaret was called, was proclaimed
queen, and the administration was put into the hands of six guardians, who from 1286 to 1289
carried on the government with fair success. As time went on, the baronage got out of hand
and a feud between the rival south-western houses of Balliol and Bruce foreshadowed worse troubles.

William Eraser, Bishop of St. Andrews, the chief of the regents, visited Edward in Gascony
and urged the necessity of action. The best solution of all problems was that the young Queen
of Scots should be married to Edward of Carnarvon, a boy a few months her junior. But both
the Scots nobles and the King of Norway were jealous and suspicious, and any attempt to hurry
forward such a proposal would have been fatal to its accomplishment. However, negotiations
were entered into between England, Scotland, and Norway. In 1289 the guardians of Scotland
agreed to nominate representatives to treat on the matter. Edward took up his quarters at Clarendon,
while his agents, conspicuous among whom was Anthony Bek, Bishop of Durham, negotiated with
the envoys of Norway and Scotland. On November 6 the three powers concluded the treaty of Salisbury,
by which they agreed that Margaret should be sent to England or Scotland before All Saints'
Day, 1290, "free and quit of all contract of marriage or espousals". Edward promised that if
Margaret came into his custody he would, as soon as Scotland was tranquil, hand her over to
the Scots as "free and quit" as when she came to him; and the "good folk of Scotland" engaged
that, if they received their queen thus free, they would not marry her "save with the ordinance,
will, and counsel of Edward and with the agreement of the King of Norway". In March, 1290,
a parliament of Scots magnates met at Brigham, near Kelso, and ratified the treaty. Fresh negotiations
were begun for the marriage of Edward of Carnarvon and the Queen of Scots, resulting in the
treaty of Brigham of July 18, which Edward confirmed a month later at Northampton. By this
Edward agreed that, in the event of the marriage taking place, the laws and customs of Scotland
should be perpetually maintained. Should Margaret die without issue, Scotland was to go to
its natural heir, and in any case was to remain "separate and divided from the realm of England".

The treaty of Brigham was as wise a scheme as could have been devised for bringing about the
unity of Britain. In the care taken to meet the natural scruples of the smaller nation we are
reminded of the treaty of Union of 1707. But a nearer parallel is to be found in the conditions
under which the union between France and Brittany was gradually accomplished after the marriage
of Anne of Brittany. In both cases alike, in France and in England, the stronger party was
content with securing the personal union of the two crowns, and strove to reconcile the weaker
party by providing safeguards against violent or over-rapid amalgamation. It was left for the
future to decide whether the habit of co-operation, continued for generations, might not ultimately
involve a more organic union. Unluckily for this island, the policy which ultimately made the
stubborn Celts of Brittany content with union with France, never had a chance of being carried
out here. Edward made every preparation for bringing over the Maid of Norway to her kingdom
and her husband, and neither the Scots nor the Norwegians grudged his leading share in accomplishing
their common wishes. But the child's health gave way before the hardships of the journey. Before
All Saints' day had come round, she died in one of the Orkneys, where the ship which conveyed
her had put in.

The death of the queen threatened Scotland with revolution. The regents' commission became
of doubtful legality, and a swarm of claimants for the vacant throne arose, whose resources,
if not their rights, were sufficiently evenly balanced to make civil strife inevitable. Since
southern Scotland had become a wholly feudal, largely Norman, and partly English state, there
had been no grave difficulties with regard to the succession. Now that they arose, there was
doubt as to the principles on which claims to the throne should be settled. There was no legitimate
representative left of the stock of William the Lion. The male line of his brother David, Earl
of Huntingdon, had died out with John the Scot, the last independent Earl of Chester. The nearest
claimants to the succession were therefore to be found in the descendants of David's three
daughters. But there was no certainty that any rights could be transmitted through the female
line. Moreover there was a doubt whether, allowing that a woman could transmit the right to
rule, the succession should proceed according to primogeniture or in accordance with the nearness
of the claimant to the source of his claim. If the former view were held then John of Balliol,
lord of Barnard castle in Durham and of Galloway in Scotland, had the best right as the grandson
of Earl David's eldest daughter. Yet less than a century before, the passing over of Arthur
of Brittany in favour of his uncle John, had recalled to men's mind the ancient doctrine that
a younger son is nearer to the parent stock than a grandson sprung from his elder brother;
and if the view, then expressed in the History of William the Marshal,[1] was still to hold
good, Robert Bruce, lord of Skelton in Yorkshire, and of Annandale in the northern kingdom,
was the nearest in blood to David of Huntingdon as the son of his second daughter. Beyond this
there was the further question of the divisibility of the kingdom. So fully was southern Scotland
feudalised that it seemed arguable that the monarchy, or at least its demesne lands, might
be divided among all the representatives of the coheiresses, after the fashion in which the
Huntingdon estates had been allotted to all the representatives of Earl David. In that case
John of Hastings, lord of Abergavenny, put in a claim as the grandson of Earl David's youngest
daughter.

    [1] Hist. de Guillaume le Maréchal, ii., 64, II. 11899-902.

        Oil, sire, quer c'est raison
        Quer plus près est sanz achaison
        Le filz de la terre son père
        Que le niês: dreiz est qu'il i père.

When so much was uncertain, every noble who boasted any connexion with the royal house safeguarded
his interests, or advertised his pedigree, by enrolling himself among the claimants. Five or
six of the competitors had no better ground of right than descent from bastards of the royal
house, especially from the numerous illegitimate offspring of William the Lion. The others
went back to more remote ancestors. A foreign prince, Florence, Count of Holland, demanded
the succession as a descendant of a sister of Earl David, declaring that David had forfeited
his rights by rebellion. John Comyn, lord of Badenoch, brought forward his descent from Donaldbane,
brother of Malcolm Canmore. One claim reads like a fairy tale, with stories of an unknown king
dying, leaving a son to be murdered by a wicked uncle, and a daughter to escape to obscurity
in Ireland, where she married and transmitted her rights to her children. There was no authority
in Scotland strong enough to decide these claims. Once more Robert Bruce raised the standard
of disorder, and the appeal of Bishop Fraser to Edward to undertake the settlement of the question
showed that the English king's mediation was the readiest way of restoring order.

In 1291 Edward summoned the magnates of both realms, along with certain popular representatives,
to meet at Norham, Bishop Bek's border castle on the Tweed. Trained civilians and canonists
also attended, while abbeys and churches contributed extracts from chronicles, carefully compiled
by royal order, with a view of illustrating the king's claims. On May 10 Edward met the assembly
in Norham parish church. Roger Brabazon, the chief justice, declared in the French tongue that
Edward was prepared to do justice to the claimants as "superior and direct lord of Scotland".
Before, however, he could act, his master required that his overlordship should be recognised
by the Scots. It is likely that this demand was not unexpected. Even in the treaty of Brigham
Edward had been careful not to withdraw his claim of superiority, and his action with relation
to Alexander III.'s homage was well known. But the sensitiveness which their late king had
shown in the face of Edward's earlier claims was shared by the Scots lords, and shrinking from
recognising facts which they ought to have faced before they solicited his intervention, they
begged for delay and drew up remonstrances. Edward granted them, a respite for three weeks,
though he swore by St. Edward that he would rather die than diminish the rights due to the
Confessor's crown. He had already summoned the northern levies, and was prepared to enforce
his claim by force. His uncompromising attitude put the Scots in an awkward position. But they
had gone to Norham to get his help, and they were not prepared to run the risk of an English
invasion as well as civil war. Most of the claimants had as many interests in England as in
Scotland, and a breach with Edward would involve the forfeiture of their southern lands as
well as the loss of a possible kingdom in the north. When the magnates reassembled, the competitors
set the example of acknowledging Edward as overlord. Fresh demands followed their submission,
and were at once conceded. Edward was to have seisin of Scotland and its royal castles, though
he pledged himself to return both land and fortresses to him who should be chosen king.

Edward then undertook the examination of the suit. He delegated the hearing of the claims to
a commission, of whom the great majority, eighty, were Scotsmen, nominated in equal numbers
by Bruce and Balliol, the two senior competitors, while the remaining twenty-four consisted
of Englishmen, and included many of Edward's wisest counsellors. In deference to Scottish feeling,
Edward ordered the court to meet on Scottish territory, at Berwick, and appointed August 2
for the opening day. Meanwhile the full consequences of the Scottish submission were carried
out. On Edward's taking seisin of Scotland, the regency came to an end. The nomination of the
provisional government resting with Edward, he reappointed the former regents, and allowed
the Scots barons to elect their chancellor. But with the regents Edward associated a northern
baron, Brian Fitzalan of Bedale, and the Scottish bishop, who was appointed chancellor, had
to act jointly with one of Edward's clerks. Edward then made a short progress, reaching as
far as Stirling and St. Andrews. He was back at Berwick for the meeting of the commissioners
on August 2.

The first session of the court was a brief one. The twelve competitors put in their claims,
and Bruce and Balliol supported theirs by argument. However, on August 12, the trial was adjourned
for nearly a year, until June 2, 1292. On its resumption in Edward's presence, the more difficult
issues were carefully worked out. A new and fantastic claim, sent in by Eric of Norway, as
the nearest of kin to his daughter, did not delay matters. The judges were instructed to settle
in the first instance the relative claims of Bruce and Balliol, and also to decide by what
law these should be determined. On October 14, they declared their first judgment. They rejected
Bruce's plea that the decision should follow the "natural law by which kings rule," and accepted
Balliol's contention that they should follow the laws of England and Scotland. They further
laid down that the law of succession to the throne was that of other earldoms and dignities.
They pronounced in favour of primogeniture as against proximity of blood.

These decisions practically settled the case, but a further adjournment was resolved upon,
and upon the reassembling of the court on November 6 the only question still open, that of
whether the kingdom could be divided, was taken up. John of Hastings came on the scene with
the contention that the monarchy should be divided among the representatives of Earl David's
daughters. Bruce had the effrontery to associate himself with Hastings' demand. A short adjournment
was arranged to settle this issue, and on November 17 the final scene took place in the hall
of Berwick castle. Besides the commissioners, the king was there in full parliament, and eleven
claimants, who still persevered, were present or represented by proxy. Nine of these were severally
told that they would obtain nothing by their petitions. Bruce was informed that his claim to
the whole was incompatible with his present claim for a third. It was laid down that the kingdom
of Scotland was indivisible, and that the right of Balliol had been established.

The seal of the regency was broken: Edward handed over the seisin of Scotland to John Balliol,
who three days later took the oath of fealty as King of Scots, promising that he would perform
all the service due to Edward from his kingdom, Balliol hurried to his kingdom, and was crowned
at Scone on St. Andrew's day. He then returned to England, and kept Christmas with his overlord
at Newcastle, where, on December 26, he did homage to Edward in the castle hall. But within
a few days a difficulty arose. John resented Edward's retaining the jurisdiction over a law-suit
in which a Berwick merchant, a Scotsman, was a party. He was reassured by Edward that he only
did so, because the case had arisen during the vacancy, when Edward was admittedly ruling Scotland.
But Edward significantly added a reservation of his right of hearing appeals, even in England;
and when the King of Scots went back to his realm, early in January, he must have already foreseen
that there was trouble to come.

Edward never lost sight of his own interests, and it is clear that he took full advantage of
the needs of the Scots to establish a close supremacy over the northern kingdom. Making allowance
for this sinister element, his general policy in dealing with the great suit had been singularly
prudent and correct. He was anxious to ascertain the right heir; he gave the Scots a preponderating
voice in the tribunal; he rejected the temptation which Bruce and Hastings dangled before him
of splitting up the realm into three parts, and he restored the land and its castles as soon
as the suit was settled. There is nothing to show that up to this point his action had produced
any resentment in Scotland, and little evidence that there was any strong national feeling
involved. Scottish chroniclers, who wrote after the war of independence, have given a colour
to Edward's policy which contemporary evidence does not justify. From the point of his generation,
his action was just and legal. He had, in fact, performed a signal service to Scotland in vindicating
its unity; and by maintaining the rigid doctrines of Anglo-Norman jurisprudence, he rescued
it from the vague philosophy which Bruce called natural law, and the recrudescence of Celtic
custom that gave even bastards a hope of the succession. The real temptation came when, after
his triumph, Edward sought to extract from the submission of the Scots consequences which had
no warranty in custom, and made Scottish resistance inevitable.

The expulsion of the Jews, the reform of the administration, the statute Quia emptores, the
treaty of Tarascon, the humiliation of Gloucester, and the successful issue of the Scottish
arbitration, mark the culminating point in the reign of Edward I. The king had ruled twenty
years with almost uniform success, and his only serious disappointment had been the failure
of the crusade. The last hope of the Latin East faded when, in 1291, Acre, so long the bulwark
of the crusaders against the Turks, opened its gates to the infidel. With the fall of Acre
went the last chance of the holy war. Before long the peace of Europe, which Edward thought
that he had established, was once more rudely disturbed. Difficulties soon arose with Scotland,
with France, with the Church, and with the barons. These troubles bore the more severely on
the king because this period saw also the removal of nearly all of those in whom he had placed
special trust. The gracious Eleanor of Castile died in 1290, at Harby, in Nottinghamshire,
near Lincoln,[1] and the devotion of the king to the partner of his youth found a striking
expression in the sculptured crosses, which marked the successive resting-places of her corpse
on its last journey from Harby to Westminster Abbey. A few months later Edward's mother, Eleanor
of Castile, ended her long life in the convent of Amesbury, in Wiltshire. The ministers of
Edward's early reign were also removed by death. Bishop Kirkby, the treasurer, died in 1290,
and Burnell, the chancellor, in 1292, soon after he had performed his last public act in the
declaration of the king's judgment as to the Scottish succession. Archbishop Peckham died in
the same year. New domestic ties were formed, and fresh ministers were found, but the ageing
king became more and more lonely, as he was compelled to rely upon a younger and a less faithful
generation. Of his old comrades the chief remaining was Henry Lacy, Earl of Lincoln, while
the removal of Burnell brought forward to the first rank prelates whose position had hitherto
been somewhat obscured by his predominance. Prominent among these were the brothers Thomas
Bek, Bishop of St. David's, and Anthony Bek, Bishop of Durham, members of a conspicuous Lincolnshire
baronial family. Both of these for a time strikingly combined devotion to the royal service
with loyalty to those clerical and aristocratic traditions which, strictly interpreted, were
almost incompatible with faithful service to a secular monarch. Even more important henceforth
was the king's treasurer, Walter Langton, Bishop of Lichfield, the most trusted minister of
Edward's later life, a faithful but not too scrupulous prelate of the ministerial type, who
stood to the second half of the reign in almost the same close relation as that in which Burnell
stood to the years which we have now traversed.

    [1] See for this W.H. Stevenson, Death of Eleanor of Castile,
    in English Hist. Review, iii. (1888), pp. 315-318.

CHAPTER X.

THE FRENCH AND SCOTTISH WARS AND THE CONFIRMATION OF THE CHARTERS.

Troubles arose between France and England soon after Edward had settled the Scottish succession.
Neither Edward nor Philip the Fair sought a conflict. Edward was satisfied with his diplomatic
successes, and Philip's designs upon Gascony were better pursued by chicane than by warfare.
But questions arose of a different kind from the disputes as to feudal right, which had been
hitherto the principal matters in debate between the two crowns.

There had long been keen commercial rivalry between the Cinque Ports and the traders of Normandy.
The sailors of Bayonne and other Gascon harbours had associated themselves with the English
against the Normans, and both sides loudly complained to their respective rulers of the piracies
and homicides committed by their enemies. Edward and Philip did what they could to smooth over
matters, but were alike unable to prevent their subjects flying at each other's throats. The
story spread that a Norman ship was to be seen in the Channel with' English sailors and dogs
hanging suspended from her yard-arms: "And so," says Hemingburgh, "they sailed over the sea,
making no difference between a dog and an Englishman". Indignation at this outrage drove the
English to act together in large organised squadrons. The French adopted the same tactics,
and a collision soon ensued. On May 15, 1293, an Anglo-Gascon merchant fleet encountered a
Norman fleet off Saint Mahe in Brittany. A pitched battle, probably prearranged, at once ensued.
It ended in a complete victory for the less numerous English squadron, which immediately returned
to Portsmouth, laden with booty.

Even after this, Edward strove to keep the peace, and endeavoured to exact compensation from
his subjects. They answered with a highly coloured narrative of the dispute which threw the
whole blame upon the Normans. Philip, changing his policy, took up his subjects' cause, and
summoned Edward to answer in January, 1294, before the Parliament of Paris for the piracy exercised
by his mariners, the misdeeds of his Gascon subjects, and the violent measures taken by his
officers against any who appealed to the court of Paris. Edward sent his brother, Edmund, to
reply for him. As Count of Champagne and the step-father of Philip's wife, Joan, Edmund seemed
a peculiarly acceptable negotiator. After long debates, the personal intervention of the French
queen, and Philip's step-mother, Mary of Brabant, resulted in an agreement being arranged.
The overlord's grievances could not be denied, and it was urged that the formal surrender of
part of Gascony might be made by way of recognising them. French garrisons were therefore to
be admitted into six Gascon strongholds; twenty Gascon hostages were to be delivered over to
Philip, while the seisin of the duchy was also to be transferred to the French king, who pledged
himself not to change the officials nor to occupy the land in force. The whole business was
in fact to be as formal as the delivery of the seisin of Scotland to Edward during the suit
for the succession. Meanwhile, Edward and Philip were to arrange a meeting at Amiens to settle
the conditions of a permanent peace, by which Edward was to take Philip's sister, Margaret,
as his second wife, and the Gascon duchy was to be settled upon the offspring of the union.
That Edward or Edmund should ever have contemplated such terms is a strong proof of their zeal
for peace. It soon became clear that Edmund had been outrageously duped, and that the whole
negotiation was a trick to secure for Philip the permanent possession of Gascony. The constable
of France appeared on the Aquitanian frontier. The English seneschal surrendered the six castles
and the seisin of the land. Gradually the French king began to take actual possession of the
government. Moreover, after three months, the proceedings against Edward in the parliament
of Paris were resumed; Edward was declared contumacious on the ground of his non-appearance,
and sentence of forfeiture was passed.

Philip's treachery was thus manifest? and in great disgust Edmund withdrew from France. Edward
was deeply indignant. In a parliament, held in June, 1294, which was attended by the King of
Scots, war was resolved upon. The feudal tenants were summoned to assemble at Portsmouth on
September 1; and Edward appealed for help to his Gascon subjects, beseeching their pardon for
having negotiated the fatal treaty, and promising a speedy effort to restore them to his obedience.
He sent them his nephew, John of Brittany, as his lieutenant and captain-general, under whom
John of St. John was to act as seneschal of Gascony. Ambassadors were despatched to all neighbouring
courts to build up a coalition against the French. Strenuous efforts were made to get together
men and money, and the clergy were forced to make a grant of a half of their spiritual income.
Edward overbore their opposition amidst a scene of excitement in which the Dean of St. Paul's
fell dead at the king's feet. The shires were mulcted of a tenth and the boroughs of a sixth.
And besides these constitutional exactions, the king laid violent hands on all the coined money
deposited in the treasuries of the churches, and appropriated the wool of the merchants, which
he only restored on the payment of a heavy pecuniary redemption. Meanwhile, about Michaelmas
the lieutenant and the seneschal sailed with a fairly strong force. Further levies were summoned
to assemble at Portsmouth at later dates. Besides the ordinary tenants of the crown, writs
were sent to the chief magnates of Ireland and Scotland; and Wales and its march were called
upon to furnish all the men that could be mustered. The Earls of Cornwall and Lincoln were
appointed to the command, and Edward himself proposed to follow them to Gascony as soon as
he could.

At the moment of the departure of John of Brittany a sudden insurrection in Wales frustrated
Edward's plans. All Wales was ripe for revolt. In the principality the Cymry resented English
rule, and the sulky marchers stood aloof in sullen discontent, while their native tenants,
seeing in the recent humiliation of Gloucester and Hereford the degradation of all their lords,
lost respect for such powerless masters. Both in the principality and in the marches, Edward's
demand for compulsory service in Gascony was universally regarded as a new aggression. The
intensity of the resistance to his demand can be measured by the general nature of the insurrection,
and by the admirable way in which it was organised. As by a common signal all Wales rose at
Michaelmas, 1294. One Madog, probably a bastard son of Llewelyn, son of Griffith, raised all
Gwynedd, took possession of Carnarvon castle, and closely besieged the other royal strongholds.
In west Wales a chieftain named Maelgwn was equally successful in Carmarthen and Cardigan.
The marches were in arms equally with the principality. In the north, Lincoln's tenants in
Rhos and Rhuvoniog besieged Denbigh, and threatened the king's fortresses in Flint. Maelgwn's
sphere of operations included the earldom of Pembroke, while Brecon rose against Hereford,
and Glamorgan against Gilbert of Gloucester. Morgan, the leader of the Glamorganshire rebels,
loudly declared that he did not rebel against the king but against the Earl of Gloucester.
With the beginning of winter the state of Wales was more critical than in the worst times of
the winter of 1282.

Edward postponed his attack on Philip in order to throw all his energies into the reduction
of Wales. The levies assembled at Portsmouth for the Gascon expedition were hurried beyond
the Severn. The king held another parliament and exacted a fresh supply. Criminals were offered
pardon and good wages, if they would serve, first in Wales and then in Gascony. Before Christmas
about a thousand men-at-arms were mustered at various border centres under the royal standards,
while every marcher lord was busily engaged in putting down his own rebels. Before so great
a force the Welsh could do but little, and the spring saw the extinction of the rebellion.
But there was hard fighting both in the south and in the north. Edward himself undertook the
reconquest of Gwynedd. He was at Conway before the end of the year, and in his haste he threw
himself into the town while the mass of his army remained on the right bank of the river. High
tides and winter floods made the crossing of the stream impossible, and for a short time the
king was actually besieged by the rebels. Conway was unprepared for resistance and almost destitute
of supplies. The garrison thought it a terrible hardship that they had to live on salt meat
and bread, and to drink water mixed with honey. They were encouraged by Edward refusing to
taste better fare than his troopers, and declining to partake of the one small measure of wine
reserved for his use. William Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick, conveyed his troops across the estuary
and raised the siege. Yet the insurgents were still able to fight a pitched battle. About January
22, 1295, Warwick found the Welsh established in a strong position in a plain between two woods.
They had fixed the butts of their lances into the ground, hoping thus to resist the shock of
a cavalry charge. Improving on the tactics of Orewyn bridge, the earl stationed between his
squadrons of knights, archers and crossbowmen, whose missiles inflicted such loss on the Welsh
lines that the cavalry soon found it safe to charge. The Welsh were utterly broken, and never
in a single day did they suffer such enormous losses. Even more important than its results
in breaking the back of Madog's insurrection, this battle of Maes Madog--or Madog's field,
as the Welsh called the place of their defeat--is of the highest importance in the development
of infantry tactics. The order of the victorious force strikingly anticipates the great battles
in Scotland and France of a later generation. In obscure fights, like Orewyn bridge and Maes
Madog, the English learnt the famous battle array which was to overwhelm the Scots in the later
years of Edward's reign and prepare the way for the triumphs of Crecy and Poitiers.

Madog still held out, and with the advent of spring, 1295, Edward began to hunt him from his
lairs. Gwynedd was cleared of the enemy and Anglesey was reconquered. Carnarvon castle arose
from its ruins in the stately form that we still know, while on the Anglesey side of the Menai
the new stronghold of Beaumaris arose, to ensure the subjection of the granary of Gwynedd.
In May Edward felt strong enough to undertake a progress in South Wales. After receiving the
submissions of the rebels of Cardigan and Carmarthen, he won back for the lords of Brecon and
Glamorgan the lands which, without his help, they had been unable to conquer. The Welsh chieftains
were leniently treated. While Madog was imprisoned in the Tower, Morgan was at once set at
liberty. By July Edward was able to leave Wales. Yet his triumph had taxed all his resources,
and left him, overwhelmed with debt, to face the irritation of subjects unaccustomed to such
demands upon their loyalty and patriotism. But nothing broke his dauntless spirit, and once
more he busied himself in obtaining revenge on the false King of France.

It was inevitable that the Welsh war should have reduced to slender proportions the expedition
of John of Brittany and John of St. John for the recovery of Gascony. After a tedious voyage
the English expedition sailed up the Gironde late in October, 1294. Their forces, strong enough
to capture Bourg and Blaye, were not sufficient to attack Bordeaux. Leaving the capital in
the hands of its conquerors, the English sailed past Bordeaux to Rioms, where they disembarked.
The small towns of the neighbourhood were taken and garrisoned, and the Gascon lords began
to flock to the camp of their duke. Before long the army was large enough to be divided. John
of Brittany remained at Rioms, while John of St. John marched overland to Bayonne. The French
garrison was unable to overpower the enthusiasm of the Bayonnais for Edward, and the capture
of the second town of Gascony was the greatest success attained by the invaders. With the spring
of 1295, however, Charles of Valois, brother of the King of France, was sent to operate against
John of Brittany. The English and Gascons found themselves unable to make head against him.
There was ill-feeling between the two nations that made up the army, and also between the nobly-born
knights and men-at-arms and the foot soldiers. The infantry mutinied, and John of Brittany
fled by night down the river from Rioms, leaving many of his knights and all his horses and
armour in the town. Next day Rioms opened its gates to Charles of Valois, who gained immense
spoils and many distinguished prisoners. Save for the capture of Bayonne, the expedition had
been a disastrous failure.

Edward failed even more signally in his efforts to defeat Philip by diplomacy. He had left
no effort unspared to build up a great coalition against the French king. He "sent a great
quantity of sterling money beyond the sea," and made alliances with all the princes and barons
that he could find.[1] At first it seemed that he had succeeded. Adolf of Nassau, the poor
and dull, but strenuous and hard-fighting King of the Romans, concluded a treaty with England,
and did not think it beneath the dignity of the lord of the world to take the pay of the English
monarch. Many vassals of the empire, especially in the Netherlands, the Rhineland, and Burgundy
followed Adolf's example. Edward strengthened his party further by marrying three of his daughters
to the Duke of Brabant, the son of the Count of Holland, and the Count of Bar as the price
of their adherence to the coalition. He made closer his ancient friendship with Guy of Dampierre,
the old Count of Flanders, by betrothing Edward of Carnarvon to his daughter Philippine. At
the same time he sought the friendship of the lords of the Pyrenees, such as the Count of Foix,
and of the kings of the Spanish peninsula. But nothing came of the hopes thus excited, save
fair promises and useless expenditure. Before long Philip of France was able to build up a
French party in appearance as formidable-in reality as useless as Edward's attempted confederation.
Edward's most important ally, Guy of Flanders, was forced to renounce his daughter's marriage
to the heir of England and hand her over to Philip's custody. The time was not yet come for
effective European coalitions; the real fighting had to be done by the parties directly interested
in the quarrel.

    [1] See a contemporary notice printed by F. Funck-Brentano in
    Revue Historique, xxxix. (1889), pp. 329-30.

The command of the sea continued to be a vital question. The Norman sailors were eager to avenge
their former defeats, and Philip saw that the best way to preserve his hold over Gascony was
to be master of the Channel and the Bay of Biscay. Edward prepared to meet attack by establishing
an organisation of the English navy which marks an epoch in the history of our admiralty. He
divided the vessels told off to guard the sea into three classes, and set over each a separate
admiral. John of Botecourt was made admiral of the Yarmouth and eastern fleet; William of Leyburn
was set over the navy at Portsmouth; and the western and Irish squadron was put under a valiant
knight of Irish origin. Meanwhile the French planned an invasion of England, and promised James
of Aragon that, when England was conquered, its king should be considered his personal prize.
Galleys were hired at Marseilles and Genoa for service in the Channel, and Sir Thomas Turberville,
a Glamorganshire knight captured at Rioms, turned traitor and was restored to England in the
hope that he might obtain the custody of some seaport and betray it to the enemy. Turberville
strove in vain to induce Morgan to head another revolt in Glamorgan, and urged upon Philip
the need of an alliance with the Scots. At last the invasion was attempted, and the French
admiral, Matthew of Montmorenci, sacked and burnt the town of Dover. Luckily, however, Turberville's
treason was discovered, and the Yarmouth fleet soon avenged the attack on Dover by burning
Cherbourg. In the face of such resistance, Philip IV. abandoned his plan of invasion and tried
to establish a sort of "continental blockade" of English ports in which a modern writer has
seen an anticipation of the famous dream of Napoleon.[1] Though nothing came of these grandiose
schemes, yet the efforts made to organise invasion had their permanent importance as resulting
in the beginnings of the French royal navy. As late as 1297 a Genoese was appointed admiral
of France in the Channel, and strongly urged the invasion of England and its devastation by
fire and flame. But the immediate result of Philip's efforts to cut off England from the continent
was that his Flemish allies found in his policy a new reason for abandoning his service. On
January 7, 1297, a fresh treaty of alliance between Edward and Guy, Count of Flanders, was
concluded.

    [1] See for this Jourdain, Mémoire sur les Commencements de la
    Marine française sous Philippe le Bel (1880), and C. de la
    Roncière, Le Blocus continental de l'Angleterre sous Philippe
    le Bel in Revue des Questions historiques, lx. (1896),
    401-41.

More effective than Philip's efforts to combine the Continent against the English were his
endeavours to stir up opposition to Edward in Britain. The Welsh rising of 1294 had taken place
independently of him, but it was not Philip's fault that Morgan did not once more excite Glamorgan
to rebellion. A better opening for intrigue was found in Scotland. Ever since the accession
of John Balliol, there had been appeals from the Scottish courts to those of Edward. Certain
suits begun under the regency, which had acted in Edward's name from 1290 to 1292, gave the
overlord an opportunity of inserting the thin end of the wedge; and it looked as if, after
a few years, appeals from Edinburgh to London would be as common as appeals from Bordeaux to
Paris. But whatever were the ancient relations of England and Scotland, it is clear that the
custom of appeals to the English king had never previously been established. It was no wonder
then that what seemed to Edward an inevitable result of King John's submission, appeared to
the Scots an unwarrantable restriction of their independence.

The weakness and simplicity of King John left matters to take their course for a time, but
the king, who was not strong enough to stand up against Edward, was not the man to resist the
pressure of his own subjects. On his return from the London parliament of June, 1294, the Scots
barons virtually deposed him. A committee was set up by parliament consisting of four bishops,
four earls, and four barons which, though established professedly on the model of the twelve
peers of France, had a nearer prototype in the fifteen appointed under the Provisions of Oxford.
To this body the whole power of the Scottish monarchy was transferred, so that John became
a mere puppet, unable to act without the consent of his twelve masters. Under this new government
the relations of England and Scotland soon became critical. The Scots denied all right of appeal
to the English courts, and expelled from their country the nobles whose possessions in England
gave them a greater interest in the southern than in the northern kingdom. Among the dispossessed
barons was Robert Bruce, son of the claimant, by marriage already Earl of Carrick, and now
by his father's recent death lord of Annandale. In defiance of Edward's prohibition the Scots
received French ships, and subjected English traders at Berwick to many outrages. At last,
on July 5, 1295, an alliance was signed between Scotland and France, by which Edward Balliol,
the eldest son of King John, was betrothed to Joan, the eldest daughter of Charles of Valois,
the brother of the French king. On this, Edward demanded the surrender of three border castles,
and on the refusal of the Scots, cited John to appear at Berwick on March 1, 1296. Thus, by
a process similar to that which had embroiled Edward with his French overlord, the King of
Scots also was forced to face the alternative of certain war or humiliating surrender.

To Edward a breach with Scotland was unwelcome. In 1294 the Welsh had prevented him using all
his power against France, and in 1295 the Scots troubles further postponed his prospects of
revenge. But no suggestion of compromise or delay came from him. On his return to London early
in August, 1295, he busied himself with preparing to resist the enemies that were gathering
around him on every side. It was the moment of the raid on Dover, and the French question was
still the more pressing. In a parliament of magnates at London, Edmund of Lancaster told the
story of his Paris embassy with such effect that two cardinal-legates, whom the new pope, Boniface
VIII., had sent in the hope of making peace, were put off politely, on the ground that Edward
could make no treaty without the consent of his ally, the King of the Romans. Edmund was appointed
commander of a new expedition to Gascony, though his weak health delayed his departure. Meanwhile
Edward called upon every class of his subjects to co-operate with him in his defence of the
national honour. He was statesman enough to see that he could only cope with the situation,
if England as a whole rallied round him. His best answer to the Scots and the French was the
convention of the "model parliament" of November, 1295.

The deep political purpose with which this parliament was assembled is reflected even in the
formal language of the writs. "Inasmuch as a most righteous law of the emperors," wrote Edward,
"ordains that what touches all should be approved by all, so it evidently appears that common
dangers should be met by remedies agreed upon in common. You know well how the King of France
has cheated me out of Gascony, and how he still wickedly retains it. But now he has beset my
realm with a great fleet and a great multitude of warriors, and proposes, if his power equal
his unrighteous design, to blot out the English tongue from the face of the earth." To avert
this peril, Edward summoned not only a full and representative gathering of magnates, but also
two knights from every shire and two burgesses from every borough. Moreover, the lower clergy
were also required to take part in the assembly, the archdeacons and deans in person, the clergy
of every cathedral church by one proctor, the beneficed clerks of each diocese by two proctors.
Thus the assembly became so systematic a representation of the three estates' that after ages
have regarded it as the type upon which subsequent popular parliaments were to be modelled.
This gathering marks the end of the parliamentary experiments of the earlier part of the reign.
It met on November 27, and each estate, deliberating separately, contributed its quota to the
national defence. The barons and knights offered an eleventh, and the boroughs a seventh. It
was a bitter disappointment to Edward that the clergy could not be induced to make a larger
grant than a tenth. Enough, however, was obtained to equip the two armies which, in the spring
of 1296, were to operate against the French and the Scots.

The Gascon expedition was the first to start. Early in March, 1296, Edmund of Lancaster, accompanied
by the Earl of Lincoln, landed at Bourg and Blaye. John of St. John was still maintaining himself
in that district as well as at Bayonne. On the appearance of the reinforcements the Gascon
lords began to flock to the English camp, and a large force was at once able to take the field.
On March 28 an attempt was made to capture Bordeaux by a sudden assault. On its failure Edmund,
who did not possess the equipment necessary for a formal siege, sailed up the river to Saint-Macaire
and occupied the town. But the castle held out gallantly, and after a three weeks' siege Edmund
retired to his original position on the lower Gironde. Even there he found difficulty in holding
his own, and before long shifted his quarters to Bayonne. He had exhausted his resources, and
found that his army could not be kept together without pay. "Thereupon," writes Hemingburgh,
"his face fell and he sickened about Whitsuntide. So with want of money came want of breath
too, and after a few days he went the way of all flesh." Lincoln, his successor, managed still
to stand his ground against Robert of Artois. At last Artois made a successful night attack
upon the English, captured St. John, and destroyed all his war-train and baggage. The darkness
of the night and the shelter of the neighbouring woods alone saved the English army from total
destruction. "After this," boasted William of Nangis, "no Englishman or Gascon dared to go
out to battle against the Count of Artois and the French." At Easter, 1297, a truce was concluded
which left nearly all Gascony in French hands.

Soon after the departure of his brother for Gascony, Edward went to war against the Scots,
regarding the non-appearance of King John on March 1 at Berwick as a declaration of hostility.
The lord of Wark offered to betray his castle to the Scots, and Edward's successful effort
to save it first brought him to the Tweed. Meanwhile the men of Annandale under their new lord,
the Earl of Buchan, engaged in a raid on Carlisle, but failed to capture the city, and speedily
returned home. On March 28, the day on which his brother attacked Bordeaux, Edward crossed
the Tweed at Coldstream, and marched down its left bank towards Berwick. On March 30 Berwick
was captured. The townsmen fought badly, and the heroes of the resistance were thirty Flemish
merchants, who held their factory, called the Red Hall, until the building was fired, and the
defenders perished in the flames. The garrison of the castle, commanded by Sir William Douglas,
laid down their arms at once.

Edward spent a month in Berwick, strengthening the fortifications of the town, and preparing
for an invasion of Scotland. Early in April, King John renounced his homage and, immediately
afterwards, the Scots lords who had attacked Carlisle devastated Tynedale and Redesdale, penetrating
as far as Hexham. Edward's command of the sea made it impossible for the raiders to cut off
his communications with his base, and they quickly returned to their own land, where they threw
themselves into Dunbar. Though the lord of Dunbar, Patrick, Earl of March, was serving with
the English king, his countess, who was at Dunbar, invited them into the fortress. Dunbar blocked
the road into Scotland, and Edward sent forward Earl Warenne with a portion of the army in
the hope of recapturing the position. Warenne laid siege to Dunbar, but on the third day, April
27, the main Scots army came to its relief. Leaving some of the young nobles to continue the
siege, Warenne drew up his army in battle array. The Scots thought that the English were preparing
for flight, and rushed upon them with loud cries and blowing of horns. Discovering too late
that the enemy was ready for battle, they fell back in confusion as far as Selkirk Forest.
Next day Edward came up from Berwick and received the surrender of Dunbar. Henceforth his advance
was but a military promenade.

Edward turned back from Dunbar to receive the submission of the Steward of Scotland at Roxburgh,
and to welcome a large force of Welsh infantry, whose arrival enabled him to dismiss the English
foot, fatigued with the slight effort of a month's easy campaigning. Thence he made his way
to Edinburgh, which yielded after an eight days' siege. Stirling castle, the next barrier to
his progress, was abandoned by its garrison, and there Edward was reinforced by some Irish
contingents. He then advanced to Perth, keeping St. John's feast on June 24 in St. John's own
town. On July 10 Balliol surrendered to the Bishop of Durham at Brechin, acknowledging that
he had forfeited his throne by his rebellion. Edward continued his triumphal progress, preceded
at every stage by Bishop Bek at the head of the warriors of the palatinate of St. Cuthbert.
He made his way through Montrose up the east coast to Aberdeen, and thence up the Don and over
the hills to Banff and Elgin, the farthest limit of his advance. He returned by a different
route, bringing back with him from Scone the stone on which the Scots kings had been wont to
sit at their coronation. This he presented as a trophy of victory to the monks of Westminster,
where it was set up as a chair for the priest celebrating mass at the altar over against the
shrine of St. Edward, though soon used as the coronation seat of English kings.

In less than five months Edward had conquered a kingdom. On August 22 he was back at Berwick,
whither he had summoned a parliament of the nobles and prelates of both kingdoms, in order
that the work of organising the future government of Scotland might be completed. Meanwhile
a crowd of Scots of every class flocked to the victor's court and took oaths of fealty to him.
Their names, along with those of the persons who made similar recognitions of his sovereignly
during his Scottish progress, were recorded with notarial precision in one of those formal
documents with which Edward delighted to mark the stages in the accomplishment of his task.
This record, popularly styled the Ragman Roll, containing the names of about two thousand freeholders
and men of substance in Scotland, is of extreme value to the Scottish genealogist and antiquary.[1]
The last entries are dated August 28, the day on which Edward met his parliament at Berwick.
The administration of Scotland was provided for. John, Earl Warenne, became the king's lieutenant,
Hugh Cressingham, treasurer, and William Ormesby, justiciar. When the land was subdued Edward
showed a strong desire to treat the people well. The only precaution taken by him against the
renewal of disturbances was an order that the former King of Scots, John Comyn of Buchan, John
Comyn of Badenoch, and other magnates of the patriotic party were to dwell in England, south
of the Trent, until the conclusion of the war with France. As soon as his business was accomplished
at Berwick, Edward turned his steps southwards. At last he seemed free to lead a great army
against Philip the Fair; and, in order to prepare for the French expedition, he summoned another
parliament to meet at Bury St. Edmunds on the morrow of All Souls' day, November 3. At Bury
the barons, knights, and burgesses made liberal offerings for the war. But a new difficulty
arose in the absolute refusal of the clergy to vote any supplies. Once more the cup of hope
was dashed from Edward's lips, and he found himself forced to enter into another weary conflict,
this time with his English liegemen.

    [1] It is printed by the Bannatyne Club, and summarised in
    Cal. Doc. Scot., ii., 193-214.

So long as Peckham had lived, there had always been a danger of a conflict between Church and
State. Friar John had ended his restless career in 1292, and Edward showed natural anxiety
to secure as his successor a prelate more amenable to the secular authority and more national
in his sentiments. The papacy remained vacant after the death of Nicholas IV. in 1292, so that
there was no danger of Rome taking the appointment into its own hands, and the happy accident,
which had given the monks of Christchurch a statesmanlike prior in Henry of Eastry, minimised
the chances of a futile conflict between the king and the canonical electors. Eastry took care
that the archbishop-elect should be a person acceptable to the sovereign. Robert Winchelsea,
the new primate, was an Englishman and a secular clerk, who had taught with distinction at
Paris and Oxford, but had received no higher ecclesiastical promotion than the archdeaconry
of Essex and a canonry of St. Paul's, and was mainly conspicuous for the sanctity of his life,
his ability as a preacher, and his zeal for making the cathedral of London a centre of theological
instruction. The vacancy in, the papacy forced upon the archbishop-elect a wearisome delay
of eighteen months in Italy; but at last in September, 1294, he received consecration and the
pallium from the newly elected hermit-pope, Celestine V. Winchelsea on his return strove to
show that a secular archbishop could be as austere in life, and as zealous for the rights of
Holy Church, as his mendicant predecessors. His desire to walk in the steps of Peckham soon
brought him into conflict with the king, and in this conflict he showed an appreciation of
the political situation, and a power of interpreting English opinion, which made him the most
formidable of Edward's domestic opponents. He gained his first victory in the parliament of
1295 by preventing the clergy from making a larger grant than a tenth. But this triumph sank
into insignificance as compared with the refusal of all aid by the parliament of Bury.

A change in the papacy immensely strengthened Winchelsea's position against Edward. In December,
1294, Celestine, overpowered with the burden of an office too heavy for his strength, made
his great renunciation and sought to resume his hermit life. The Cardinal Benedict Gaetano
was at once elected his successor and took the style of Boniface VIII. The son of a noble house
of the neighbourhood of Anagni, a canonist, a politician, and a zealot, the new pope had made
personal acquaintance with Edward and England from having attended Cardinal Ottobon on his
English legation, and was eager to appease discord between Christian princes in order to forward
the crusade. He hated war the more because it was largely waged with the money drawn from the
clergy, and was indignant that the custom of taxing the Church, which was begun under the guise
of crusading tenths, had become so frequent that both Philip and Edward applied it in order
to raise revenue from ecclesiastics for frankly secular warfare. Within a few weeks of his
accession he despatched two cardinals to mediate peace between the Kings of France and England,
and was disgusted at the long delays with which both kings had sought to frustrate his intervention.
On February 29, 1296, Boniface issued his famous bull Clericis laicos, in which he declared
it unlawful for any lay authority to exact supplies from the clergy without the express authority
of the apostolic see. Princes imposing, and clerics submitting to such exactions were declared
ipso facto excommunicate.

Boniface's contention had been urged by his predecessors, and it is improbable that he sought
to do more than assert the ancient law of the Church and save the clergy all over the Latin
world from exactions which were fast becoming intolerable. His object was quite general, though
a pointed reference to the extortions of Edward in 1294 showed that he had the case of England
before his mind. He had no wish to throw down the gauntlet to the princes of Christendom, or
to quarrel with Edward and Philip, between whom he was still conducting negotiations. It was
his misfortune that he was constantly forced to face fresh conditions which rendered it almost
possible to apply the ancient doctrines. Strong national kings, like Edward and Philip, had
already shown impatience with such traditions of the Church as limited their temporal authority.
The pope's untimely restatement of the theories of the twelfth century at once involved him
in his first fierce difference with Philip the Fair, and put him into a position in which he
could only win peace by explaining away the doctrine of Clericis laicos. While on the continent
the conflict of Church and State took the form of a dispute between the French king and the
papacy, in England it assumed the shape of a struggle between Edward and the Archbishop of
Canterbury.

In November, 1296, at Bury, Winchelsea admitted the justice of the French war, but pleaded
the pope's decretal as an absolute bar to any grant from the clerical estate. No decision was
arrived at, and the problem was discussed again in the convocation of Canterbury in January,
1297. "We have two lords over us," declared the archbishop to his clergy, "the king and the
pope; and, although we owe obedience to both of these, we owe greater obedience to our spiritual
than to our temporal lord." All that they could do was to entreat the pope's permission to
allow them to pay Cæsar that which Cæsar by himself had no right to demand. Edward burst into
a fury on hearing of this new pretext for delay. He declared that the clergy must pay a fifth,
under penalty of his withdrawing his protection from a body which strove to stand outside the
commonwealth. The clergy remained firm, and separated without making any grant. Thereupon,
on January 30, the chief justice, John of Metingham, sitting in Westminster Hall, pronounced
the clergy to be outlays. "Henceforth," he declared, "there shall be no justice meted out to
a clerk in the court of the lord king, however atrocious be the injury from which he may have
suffered. But sentence against a clerk shall be given at the instance of all who have a complaint
against him." Winchelsea retaliated by publishing the sentence of excommunication against violators
of the papal bull. Two days later the king ordered the sheriffs to take possession of the lay
fees held by clerks in the province of Canterbury. A few ecclesiastics, who privately made
an offering of a fifth, were alone exempted from this command.

Edward's conflict with the Church was followed within a month by a dispute of almost equal
gravity with a section of the barons. He summoned a baronial parliament to assemble on February
24 at Salisbury, and went down in person to explain his plan of campaign. One force was to
help his new ally, Guy of Flanders, while another was to act in Gascony. Edward himself was
to accompany the army to Flanders. He requested some of the earls, including Norfolk and Hereford,
to fight for him in Gascony. The deaths of Edmund of Lancaster, Gilbert of Gloucester, and
William of Pembroke had robbed the baronage of its natural leaders. Earl Warenne was fully
engaged in the north, and Lincoln was devoted to the king's side. The removal of other possible
spokesmen made Norfolk and Hereford the champions of the party of opposition. For years the
friends of aristocratic authority had been smarting under the growing influence of the crown.
The time was ripe for a revival of the baronial opposition which a generation earlier had won
the Provisions of Oxford. Moreover both the earls had personal slights to avenge. Hereford
bitterly resented the punishment meted out to him for waging private war against Earl Gilbert
in the march. Norfolk was angry because, during the last Welsh campaign, Edward had suspended
him from the exercise of the marshalship. The form of Edward's request at Salisbury gave them
a technical advantage which they were not slow to seize. Ignoring the broader issues which
lay between them and the king, they took their stand on their traditional rights as constable
and marshal to attend the king in person. "Freely," declared the earl marshal, "will I go with
thee, O king, and march before thee in the first line of thy army, as my hereditary duty requires."
Edward answered: "Thou shalt go without me along with the rest to Gascony". The marshal replied:
"I am not bound to go save with thee, nor will I go". Edward flew into a passion: "By God,
sir earl, thou shalt either go or hang". Norfolk replied with equal spirit: "By that same oath,
sir king, I will neither go nor hang". The parliament broke up in disorder. Before long a force
of 1,500 men-at-arms gathered together under the leadership of the constable and marshal.

During these stormy times Edward had been straining every nerve to equip an adequate army for
foreign service. Once more he laid violent hands upon the wool and hides of the merchants,
while a huge male--tolt, varying from forty shillings a sack for raw wool to sixty-six shillings
and eightpence a sack for carded wool, was exacted for such wool as the king's officers suffered
to remain in the owner's possession. Moreover, vast stores of wheat, barley, and oats, salt
pork and salt beef were requisitioned all over the land. Men said that the king's tyranny could
no longer be borne, and that the rights decreed to all Englishmen by the Great Charter were
in imminent danger. The movement, which had begun as a defence of feudal right, became a popular
revolt in favour of national liberty. The commons joined the barons and clergy in the general
opposition to the headstrong king.

Edward saw that he must divide his enemies if he wished to effect his purpose. The clergy were
the easiest to deal with. Boniface VIII. was already yielding in his struggle against Philip
the Fair. In the bull Romana mater of February 2, 1297, he had authorised voluntary contributions
of the French clergy in the case of pressing necessity, without previous recourse to the permission
of the apostolic see. The same attitude had already been taken up by the royalist clergy in
England, who redeemed their outlawry by offering to the king the fifth of their revenues. In
March Edward made things easier for the recalcitrants by suspending the edict confiscating
the lay fees of the Church. Even Winchelsea saw the wisdom of abandoning his too heroic attitude.
In a convocation, held on March 24, he practically applied the doctrine of Romana mater to
the English situation. "Let each man," he declared, "save his own soul and follow his own conscience.
But my conscience does not allow me to offer money for the king's protection or on any other
pretext." In the event nearly all the clergy bought off the king's wrath by the voluntary payment
of a fifth. Winchelsea was obdurate. His estates remained for five months in the king's hands,
and he was forced, like another St. Francis, to depend on the charity of the faithful. But
even Winchelsea did not hold out indefinitely. On July 14 he was publicly reconciled with the
king outside Westminster Hall, and a few days later his goods were restored. On July 31 Boniface
entirely receded from the doctrine of Cleritis laicos in the bull Etsi de statu. Before this
could be known in England, Winchelsea told his clergy that the king had agreed to confirm the
Great Charter, if they would but make a grant to carry on the French war. A little later Edward
of his own authority exacted a third from all clerical revenues. This persistence in his highhanded
policy made any real reconciliation between Edward and Winchelsea impossible. The king never
forgave the archbishop, whose action demonstrated to all England the divided allegiance of
his clergy between their two masters. Winchelsea still retained his profound distrust of the
king, who had set at naught the liberties of Church and realm.

The baronial opposition was broken up by devices not dissimilar to those which neutralised
the antagonism of the clergy. By strenuous efforts Edward obtained a fair sum of money for
his expenses. He let it be understood that, if he took his subjects' wool, the talleys given
in exchange would be redeemed when better times had arrived, and he scrupulously paid for the
corn and meat that his officers had requisitioned. Meanwhile he summoned all possible fighting
men from England, Wales, and Ireland to meet at London on July 7. The prospect of subjects
of the crown being forced, whatsoever their feudal obligations might be, to wage war beyond
sea, threatened to provoke a fresh crisis. But after many long altercations, Edward announced
that neither the feudal tenants nor the twenty-pound freeholders had any legal obligation to
go with him to Flanders, and offered pay to all who were willing to hearken to his "affectionate
request" for their services. Under these conditions a considerable force of stipendiaries was
levied without much difficulty.

Hereford and Norfolk abandoned active in favour of passive hostility. They refused to serve
as constable and marshal, and Edward appointed barons of less dignity and greater loyalty to
act in their place. While all England was busy with the equipment of troops and the provision
of supplies, they sullenly held aloof. At last, when all was ready, Edward issued an appeal
to his subjects, protesting the purity of his motives, and emphasising the inexorable necessity
under which he was forced to play the tyrant in the interests of the whole realm. By the beginning
of August such barons as were willing to go to Flanders began to assemble in arms at London.
The young Edward of Carnarvon was appointed regent during his father's absence, and among the
councillors who were to act in his name was the Archbishop of Canterbury. At last the king
set off to embark at Winchelsea. While there, the earls presented to him a belated list of
grievances. He refused to deal with their demand for the confirmation of the charters. "My
full council," he declared to the envoys of the earls, "is not with me, and without it I cannot
reply to your requests. Tell those who have sent you that, if they will come with me to Flanders,
they will please me greatly. If they will not come, I trust they will do no harm to me, or
at any rate to my kingdom." On August 24 he took ship for Flanders, and a few days later he
and his troops safely landed at Sluys, whence they made their way to Ghent. Nearly a thousand
men-at-arms and a great force of infantry, largely Welsh and Irish, swelled the expedition
to considerable proportions. After all his troubles, Edward found that the loyalty of his subjects
enabled him to carry out the ideal which he had formulated two years before. King and nation
were to meet common dangers by action undertaken in common.

Everything else was ruthlessly sacrificed in order that the king might take an army to Flanders.
The Gascon expedition was quietly dropped. But the gravest difficulty arose not from Gascony
but Scotland. Edward's choice of agents to carry out his Scottish policy had been singularly
unhappy. Warenne, the governor, was a dull and lethargic nobleman more than sixty-six years
of age. He complained of the bad climate of Scotland, and passed most of his time on his Yorkshire
estates. In his absence Cressingham, the treasurer, and Ormesby, the justiciar, became the
real representatives of the English power. Cressingham was a pompous ecclesiastic, who appropriated
to his own uses the money set aside for the fortification of Berwick, and was odious to the
Scots for his rapacity and incompetence. Ormesby was a pedantic lawyer, rigid in carrying out
the king's orders but stiff and unsympathetic in dealing with the Scots. Under such rulers
Scotland was neither subdued nor conciliated. No real effort was made to track to their hiding-places
in the hills the numerous outlaws, who had abandoned their estates rather than take an oath
of fealty to Edward. When the English governors took action, they were cruel and indiscriminating;
and often too were lax and careless. Matters soon became serious. William Wallace of Elderslie
slew an English official in Clydesdale, and threw in his lot with the outlaws. He was joined
by Sir William Douglas, the former defender of Berwick. By May, 1297, Scotland was in full
revolt. In the north, Andrew of Moray headed a rising in Strathspey. In central Scotland the
justiciar barely escaped capture, while holding his court at Scone. The south-west, the home
both of Wallace and Douglas, proved the most dangerous district. There the barons, imitating
Bohun and Bigod, based their opposition to Edward on his claim upon their compulsory service
in the French wars. Before long the son of the lord of Annandale, Robert Bruce, now called
Earl of Carrick, Robert Wishart, Bishop of Glasgow, and other magnates were in arms, and in
close association with Douglas and Wallace.

Edward made light of this rebellion. Resolved to go to Flanders at all costs, he contented
himself with calling upon the levies of the shires north of the Trent to protect his interests
in Scotland. Early in July, Henry Percy, Warenne's grandson, rode through south-western Scotland,
at the head of the Cumberland musters, and on July 7, the local insurgent leaders, with the
exception of Wallace, made their submission to him at Irvine. Moreover, Edward released the
two Comyns from their veiled imprisonment, and sent them back to Scotland to help in suppressing
the insurrection. Henry Percy boasted that the Scots south of the Forth had been reduced to
subjection. But a few days later Wallace was found to be strongly established in Ettrick forest
and was threatening Roxburgh. At last Edward stirred up Warenne to return to his government.
The king took the precaution of leaving some of his best warriors in England in case their
services were needed against the recalcitrant barons or the Scots. Then, as has been said,
on August 24 he crossed over to Flanders.

The constable and marshal were still in arms, and Winchelsea, who, in spite of his reconciliation
with Edward, was in close communication with them, declined to take an active part on the council
of regency. Two days before Edward took ship, Hereford and Norfolk appeared in arms at the
exchequer at Westminster, and forbade the officials to continue the collection of supplies,
until the Great Charter and the Charter of the Forest had been confirmed. They strove to win
the support of the Londoners, who had long had a grievance against Edward for depriving them
of their right to elect their own mayor, and for subjecting the city to the arbitrary rule
of a warden nominated by the crown. They forbade their followers to commit acts of violence,
but they made it clear that there could be no peace until the charters were confirmed.

In August, Warenne grappled with the Scottish rising, but his own incompetence, and the half-heartedness
of the Scottish magnates, on whom he relied, made his task very difficult. Wallace retreated
beyond the Forth, and Warenne reached Stirling on September 10 in pursuit of him. He learnt
that Wallace was holding the wooded heights, immediately to the north of Stirling bridge on
the left bank of the Forth, not far from the abbey of Cambuskenneth. The Steward of Scotland,
who, after the collapse of the revolt in the south-west, served under Warenne, offered his
mediation. But no good result came from his action, and the English suspected treachery. Wallace
took up a bold attitude, scorning either compromise or retreat. He had only a small following
of cavalry, but his infantry was numerous and enthusiastic. The English resolved to attack
him on September 11. The Forth at Stirling was crossed by a long wooden bridge, so narrow that
only two horsemen could pass abreast. It was madness to send an army over the river by such
a means in the face of a watchful enemy. But not only was the English plan of battle foolish
it was also carried out weakly. Warenne overslept himself, and his subordinates wasted the
early morning in useless discussions and altercations. When at last he woke up, he rejected
the advice of a Scottish knight to send part of his cavalry over the river by a ford which
thirty horsemen could traverse abreast, and ordered all his troops to cross by the bridge.

Wallace, seeing that the enemy had delivered themselves into his hands, remained in the woods
until a fair proportion of the English men-at-arms had made their way over the stream. He then
suddenly swooped down upon the bridge, cutting off the retreat of those who had traversed it,
and blocking all possibility of reinforcement. After a short fight the English to the north
of the Forth were cut down almost to a man. The English on the Stirling side, seeing the fate
of their comrades, fled in terror, and their Scots allies went over to their country men. Among
the slain was the greedy Cressingham, whose skin the Scots tanned into leather. Warenne did
not draw rein until he reached Berwick, and in one day all Scotland was lost. The castles of
Roxburgh and Berwick alone upheld the English flag. Wallace and Moray governed all Scotland
as "generals of the army of King John". Within a few weeks of their victory, they raided the
three northern counties of England.

Wallace had freed Scotland, but his wonderful success taught the contending factions in England
the plain duty of union against the common enemy. A new parliament of the three estates was
summoned for September 30. The opposition leaders came armed, and declared that there could
be no supply of men or money until their demand for the confirmation of the charters was granted.
No longer content with simple confirmation, they drew up, in the form of a statute, a petition
requiring that no tallage or aid should henceforth be taken without the assent of the estates.
This was the so-called statutum de tallagio non concedendo which seventeenth-century parliaments
and judges erroneously accepted as a statute. The helpless regency substantially accepted their
demands, and, on October 12, issued a confirmation of the charters, to which fresh clauses
were added, providing, with less generality than in the baronial request, that no male-tolts,
or such manner of aids as had recently been extorted, should be imposed in the future without
the common consent of all the realm, but making no reference to tallage.[1] Liberal supplies
were then voted by all the three estates, and Winchelsea, who all through these proceedings
acted as the brain of the baronage, exerted himself to explain away the last of the clerical
difficulties raised by the Clericis laicos.

    [1] The Latin, Articuli inserti in magna carta, given by
    Hemingburgh, ii., 152, is quoted as a statute in the Petition
    of Right of 1628, under the title De tallagio non concedendo.
    The view of its relation to the French Confirmatio cartavum
    is that taken by M. Bémont, Chartes des libertés anglaises,
    especially pp. xliii., xliv. and 87. It is based on Bartholomew
    Cotton's nearly contemporary statement (Hist. Angl., p. 337).

On November 5 the king ratified, at Ghent, the action of his son's advisers. Thus the constitutional
struggle was ended by the complete triumph of the baronial opposition. And the victory was
the more signal, because it was gained not over a weak king, careless of his rights, but over
the strongest of the Plantagenets, greedy to retain every scrap of authority. It is with good
reason that the Confirmation of the Charters of 1297 is reckoned as one of the great turning
points in the history of our constitution. Its provisions sum up the whole national advance
which had been made since Gualo and William the marshal first identified the English monarchy
with the principles wrested from John at Runnymede. In the years that immediately followed,
it might well seem that the act of 1297, like the submission of John, was only a temporary
expedient of a dexterous statecraft which consented with the lips but not with the heart. But
in later times, when the details of the struggle were forgotten and the noise of the battle
over, the event stood out in its full significance. Edward had been willing to take the people
into partnership with him when he thought that they would be passive partners, anxious to do
his pleasure. He was taught that the leaders of the people were henceforth to have their share
with the crown in determining national policy. Common dangers were still to be met by measures
deliberated in common, but the initiative was no longer exclusively reserved to the monarch.
The sordid pedantry of the baronial leaders and the high-souled determination of the king compel
our sympathy for Edward rather than his enemies. But all that made English history what it
is, was involved in the issue, and the future of English freedom was assured when the obstinacy
of the constable and marshal prevailed over the resolution of the great king.

CHAPTER XI.

THE SCOTTISH FAILURE.

The expedition of Edward to Flanders lost its best chance of success through the events which
retarded its despatch. While the English king was wrangling with his barons, the French king
was active. On the news of the alliance of Count Guy with the English, Robert of Artois was
summoned from Gascony to the north. While Philip besieged Lille, and finally took it, Robert
of Artois gained a brilliant victory over the Flemings at Furnes on August 20. Meanwhile John
of Avesnes, Count of Hainault, was closely co-operating with the French, and kept Edward's
son-in-law and ally, John, Duke of Brabant, from sending effective help to the Flemings. Moreover,
the Flemish townsmen, in their dislike of their count, were largely on the side of the French.
Edward's little army could do nothing to redress a balance that already inclined so heavily
on the other side. The Flemings were disappointed at the scanty numbers of the English men-at-arms,
and stared with wonder and contempt at the bare-legged Welsh archers and lancemen, with their
uncouth garb, strange habits of eating and fighting, and propensity to pillage and disorder,
though they recognised their hardihood and the effectiveness of their missiles.[1] The same
disorderly spirit that had marred the Rioms campaign still prevailed among the English engaged
on foreign service. No sooner were the troops landed at Sluys on August 28, than the mariners
of the Cinque Ports renewed their old feud with the men of Yarmouth, and many ships were destroyed
and lives lost in this untimely conflict. Edward advanced to Bruges, where he was joined by
the Count of Flanders, but the disloyalty of the townsmen and the approach of King Philip forced
the king and the earl to take shelter behind the stronger walls of Ghent. Immediately on their
retreat, Philip occupied Bruges and Damme, thus cutting off the English from the direct road
to the sea. The Anglo-Flemish army was afraid to attack the powerful force of the French king.
But the French had learnt by experience a wholesome fear of the English and Welsh archers,
and did not venture to approach Ghent too closely. The ridiculous result followed that the
Kings of France and England avoided every opportunity of fighting out their quarrel, and lay,
wasting time and money, idly watching each other's movements.

    [1] See for Flemish criticisms of the Welsh, L. van Velthem,
    Spiegel Historiaal, pp. 215-16, ed. Le Long, partly
    translated by Funck Brentano in his edition of Annales
    Qandenses, p. 7, a work giving full details of these
    struggles.

The only dignified way of putting an end to this impossible situation lay in negotiation. Edward's
faithful servant, William of Hotham, the Dominican friar whom the pope had appointed Archbishop
of Dublin, was in the English camp. Hotham, who had enjoyed Philip's personal friendship while
teaching theology in the Paris schools, was an acceptable mediator between the two kings. A
short truce was signed at Vyve-Saint-Bavon on the Lys on October 7. This allowed time for more
elaborate negotiations to be carried on at Courtrai and Tournai, and on January 31, 1298, a
truce, in which the allies of both kings were included, was signed at Tournai, to last until
January 6, 1300. It was agreed to refer all questions in dispute to the arbitration of Boniface
VIII, "not as pope but as a private person, as Benedict Gaetano". Both kings despatched their
envoys to Rome, where with marvellous celerity Boniface issued, on June 30, 1298, a preliminary
award. It suggested the possibility of a settlement on the basis of each belligerent retaining
the possessions which he had held at the beginning of the struggle, and entering into an alliance
strengthened by a double marriage. Edward was to marry the French king's sister Margaret, while
Edward of Carnarvon was to be betrothed to Philip's infant daughter Isabella. The latter match
involved the repudiation of the betrothal of Edward of Carnarvon with the daughter of the Count
of Flanders. But all through the award there was no mention of the allies of either party.
Boniface was too eager for peace to be over-scrupulous as to the honourable obligations of
the two kings who sought his mediation.

The English regency, which grappled so courageously with the baronial opposition, showed an
equal energy in protecting the northern counties from the Scots. About the time of the confirmation
of the charters, Wallace crossed the border and spread desolation and ruin from Carlisle to
Hexham. Warenne and Henry Percy, who had attended the October parliament at London, were soon
back in the north. By December the largest army which was ever assembled during Edward I.'s
reign[1] was collected together on the borders, and preparations were made for a winter campaign
after the fashion which had proved so effective in Wales. But all that Warenne was able to
accomplish was the relief of Roxburgh. The quality of the troops was not equal to their quantity,
and all his misfortunes had not taught him wisdom. Early in Lent Edward stopped active campaigning
by announcing that no great operations were to be attempted until his return. Thereupon Warenne
sent the bulk of the troops home, and remained at Berwick, awaiting the king's arrival.

    [1] Morris, Welsh Wars of Edward I., pp. 284-86.

Edward landed at Sandwich on March 14, 1298, and at once set about preparing to avenge Stirling
Bridge. He met his parliament on Whitsunday, May 25, at York. The Scots barons were summoned
to this assembly, but as they neither attended nor sent proxies, their absence was deemed to
be proof of contumacy. A month later a large army was concentrated at Roxburgh. The earls and
barons with their retinues mustered to the number of 1,100 horse, while 1,300 men-at-arms served
under the king's banners for pay. Though Gascony was still in Philip's hands, the good relations
that prevailed between England and France allowed the presence in Edward's host of a magnificent
troop of Gascon lords, headed by the lord of Albret and the Captal de Buch, and conspicuous
for the splendour of their armour and the costliness and beauty of their chargers. On this
occasion Edward set little store on infantry, and was content to accept the services of those
who came of their own free will. Yet even under these conditions some 12,000 foot were assembled,
more than 10,000 of whom came from Wales and its march.

The leaders of the opposition were present in Edward's host. On the eve of the invasion, the
impatient king was kept back by the declaration of Hereford and Norfolk that they would not
cross the frontier, until definite assurances were given that the king would carry out the
confirmation of the charters which he had informally ratified on foreign soil. Etiquette or
pride prevented Edward himself satisfying their demand, but the Bishop of Durham and three
loyal earls pledged themselves that the king would fulfil all his promises on his return. Then
the two earls suffered the expedition to proceed; and on July 6 the army left Roxburgh, proceeding
by moderate marches to Kirkliston on the Almond, where it encamped on the 15th. Here there
was a few days' delay, while Bishop Bek captured some of the East Lothian castles which were
threatening the English rear. Already there was a difficulty in obtaining supplies from the
devastated country-side, and northerly winds prevented the provision ships from sailing from
Berwick to the Forth. The worst hardships fell upon the Welsh infantry, who began to mutiny
and talked of joining the Scots. Matters grew worse on the arrival of a wine ship, for such
ample rations of wine were distributed to the Welsh that very many of them became drunk. So
threatening was the state of affairs that Edward thought of retreating to Edinburgh. On July
21, however, the news was brought that Wallace and his followers were assembled in great force
at Falkirk, some seventeen miles to the west. The prospect of battle at once restored the courage
and discipline of the army, and Edward ordered an advance. That night the host bivouacked on
the moors east of Linlithgow, "with shields for pillows and armour for beds". During the night
the king, who was sleeping in the open field like the meanest trooper, received a kick from
his horse which broke two of his ribs. Yet the early morning of July 22, the feast of St. Mary
Magdalen, saw him riding at the head of his troops through the streets of Linlithgow. At last
the Scots lances were descried on the slopes of a hill near Falkirk, and the English rested
while the bishop and king heard mass. Then the army, which had eaten nothing since the preceding
day, advanced to the battle.

Wallace had a large following of infantry, but a mere handful of mounted men-at-arms. He ordered
the latter to occupy the rear, and grouped his pikemen, the flower of his army, into four great
circles, or "schiltrons," which, with the front ranks kneeling or sitting and the rear ranks
standing, presented to the enemy four living castles, each with a bristling hedge of pikes,
dense enough, it was hoped, to break the fierce shock of a cavalry charge. The spaces between
the four schiltrons were occupied by the archers, the best of whom came from Ettrick Forest.
The front was further protected by a morass, and perhaps also by a row of stout posts sunk
into the ground and fastened together by ropes.

Edward ordered the Welsh archers to prepare the way with their missiles for the advance of
the men-at-arms. But the Welsh refused to move, so that Edward was forced to proceed by a direct
cavalry charge. For this purpose he divided his men-at-arms into four "battles". The first
of these was commanded by the Earl of Lincoln, with whom were the constable and marshal, who
at last had an opportunity of serving the king in battle in the offices which belonged to them
by hereditary right. On approaching the morass this first line was thrown into some confusion,
and paused in its advance. Behind it the second battle, under command of the Bishop of Durham,
who, perhaps, knew the ground better, wheeled to the east and took the Scots on their left
flank. But Bek's followers disobeyed his orders to wait until the rest of the army came up,
and they suffered heavy losses in attacking the left schiltron. Before long, however, Lincoln
found a way round the morass westwards to the enemy's right, while the two rearmost battles,
headed by the king and Earl Warenne, also advanced to the front. The combat thus became general.
The Scots cavalry fled without striking a blow, and some of the English thought that Wallace
himself rode off the field with them. The archers between the schiltrons were easily trampled
down, so that the only effective resistance came from the circles of pikemen. The yeomanry
of Scotland steadily held their own against the fierce charges of the mail-clad knights, and
it looked for a time as if the day was theirs. But the despised infantry at last made their
way to the front and poured in showers of arrows that broke down the Scottish ranks. Friend
and foe were at such close quarters that the English who had no bows threw stones against the
Scottish circles. When the way was thus prepared, the horsemen easily penetrated through the
gaps made in the circles, and before long the Scottish pikemen were a crowd of panic-stricken
fugitives. Edward's brilliant victory was won with comparatively little loss.

It was years before the Scots again ventured to meet the English in the open field. Yet the
king's victory was not followed by any real conquest even of southern Scotland. Edward advanced
to Stirling, where he rested until he had recovered from his accident, while detachments of
his troops penetrated as far as Perth and St. Andrews. Meanwhile the south-west rose in revolt,
under Robert Bruce, Earl of Carrick, whose father had fought at Falkirk. Late in August, Edward
made his way to Ayr and occupied it, while Bruce fled before him. Provisions were still scarce,
and the army was weary of fighting. The Durham contingent deserted in a body,[1] and the earls
were so lukewarm that Edward was fain to return by way of Carlisle, capturing Lochmaben, Bruce's
Annandale stronghold, on the way. On September 8 the king reached Carlisle, where the constable
and marshal declared that they had lost so many men and horses that they could no longer continue
the campaign. Edward tried to stem the tide of desertion by promises of Scottish lands to those
who would remain with his banners. But the distribution of these rewards proved only a fresh
source of discontent. At last Edward was forced to dismiss the greater part of his forces.
He lingered in the north until the end of the year, but there was no more real fighting; with
the beginning of 1299 he returned to the south, convinced that the disloyalty of his barons
had neutralised his triumphs in the field. The few castles which still upheld the English cause
in Scotland were soon closely besieged.

    [1] Lapsley, County Palatine of Durham, p. 128.

During the whole of 1299 Edward was prevented by other work from prosecuting the war against
the Scots. Even the borderers were sick of fighting, and Bishop Bek, who had hitherto afforded
him an unswerving support with all the forces of his palatinate, was forced to desist from
warlike operations by the refusal of his tenants to serve any longer beyond the bounds of the
lands of St. Cuthbert. While the men of Durham abandoned the war, there was little reason to
wonder at the indifference of the south country as to the progress of the Scots. In the Lenten
parliament at London, the Earls of Hereford and Norfolk pressed Edward once more to fulfil
his promise to carry out the confirmation of the charters. The king would not yield to their
demand yet dared not refuse it. In his perplexity he had recourse to evasions which further
embittered his relations with them. He promised that he would give an answer the next day,
but when the morrow came, he secretly withdrew from the city. The angry barons followed him
to his retreat and reminded him of his broken promise. Edward coolly replied that he left London
because his health was suffering from the corrupt air of the town, and bade the barons return,
as his council had his reply ready. The barons obeyed the king's orders, but their indignation
passed all bounds when they found that the king's promised confirmation of the charters was
vitiated by a new clause saving all the rights of the crown, and that nothing was said as to
the promised perambulation of the forests. In bitter wrath the parliament broke up, and the
Londoners, who shared the anger of the barons, threatened a revolt. After Easter these stormy
scenes were repeated in a new parliament, and Edward was at last forced to yield a grudging
assent to all the demands of the opposition, and even to appoint a commission for the perambulation
of the forests. By the time the summer was at hand, the progress of the negotiations with France
occupied Edward so fully that he had abundant excuse for not precipitating a new rupture with
his barons, by insisting upon a fresh campaign against the Scots.

A papal legate presided over a congress of English and French ambassadors at Montreuil-sur-mer,
which belonged to Edward by right of the late queen, Eleanor as Countess of Ponthieu. The outcome
of these deliberations was the treaty of Montreuil, concluded on June 19, 1299. It was not
the final pacification which had been hoped for. Edward indeed abandoned his Flemish allies,
but Philip would not relax his hold upon Gascony, and without that a definitive peace was impossible.
The treaty of Montreuil was simply a marriage treaty. Edward was forthwith to marry Margaret,
and his son was to be betrothed to Isabella of France. Neither the prolongation of the truce
nor the affairs of the Flemings were mentioned in it, while all that Philip did for the Scots
was to provide for the liberation of the deposed King John from his English prison. As soon
as the ratifications were exchanged the king, who was then sixty years of age, and his youthful
bride were married on September 9 at Canterbury by Archbishop Winchelsea.

Edward's willingness to marry the sister of the king who still kept him out of Gascony can
best be explained by his overmastering desire to renew operations in Scotland. Shortly after
his marriage, he again busied himself with preparations for the long-delayed Scots campaign.
It was high time that he took action. The English garrisons were surrendering one by one, and
the Scottish magnates were deserting the English cause. Their conversion to patriotic principles
was made easier by the decay of Wallace's power consequent on his defeat at Falkirk. After
stormy scenes with his aristocratic rivals, Wallace withdrew from Scotland and went to the
continent, where he implored the help of the King of France. Philip proved true to his new
brother-in-law, and put Wallace in prison, only releasing him that he might go to Rome and
enlist the sympathy of Boniface VIII. Meanwhile the Scots chose a new regency at the head of
which was the younger John Comyn of Badenoch. Under these changed conditions the Scottish earls
rapidly rallied round the national cause. Stirling, Edward's chief stronghold in central Scotland,
was so hardly pressed that the men-at-arms were forced to eat their chargers. Yet when the
English barons assembled about the beginning of winter, in obedience to Edward's summons, they
stubbornly declared that they would not endure the hardships of a winter campaign until the
king had fulfilled his pledges as regards the charters. Thus left to their own resources, the
sorely tried garrison of Stirling surrendered to the Scots.

In March, 1300, Edward met his parliament at Westminster. Despite the straits to which he was
reduced, he was still unwilling to make a complete surrender. He avoided a formal re-issue
of the charters by giving his sanction to a long series of articles, drawn up apparently by
the barons. These articles provided for the better publication of the charters, and the appointment
in every shire of a commission to punish all offences against them which were not already provided
for by the common law; together with numerous technical clauses "for the relief of the grievances
that the people have had by reason of the wars that have been, and for the amendment of their
estate, and that they may be more ready in the king's service and more willing to aid him when
he has need of them ". This document was known as Articuli super cartas.[1] At the same time
the forest perambulation, which had long been ordered, was directed to be proceeded with at
once. For this reason a chronicler calls this assembly "the parliament of the perambulation".[2]
The reconciliation between the king and his subjects was attested by a grant of a twentieth.

    [1] It is published in Bémont's Chartes, pp. 99-108, with
    valuable comments; another draft analysed in Hist. MSS.
    Comm., 6th Report, i., p. 344.

    [2] Langtoft, ii, 320.

Edward's concessions once more enabled him to face the Scots, and the summer saw a gallant
army mustered at Carlisle, though some of the earls, including Roger Bigod, still held aloof.
A two months' campaign was fought in south-western Scotland in July and August. But the peasants
drove their cattle to the hills, and rainy weather impeded the king's movements. The chief
exploit of the campaign was the capture of Carlaverock castle, though even in the glowing verse
of the herald, who has commemorated the taking of this stronghold,[1] the military insignificance
of the achievement cannot be concealed. Edward returned to the same district in October, but
he effected so little that he was glad to agree to a truce with the Scots, which Philip the
Fair urged him to accept. The armistice was to last until Whitsuntide, and Edward immediately
returned to England. He had not yet satisfied his subjects, and was again forced to meet his
estates.

    [1] The Siege of Carlaverock, ed. Nicolas (1828).

A full parliament assembled on January 20, 1301, at Lincoln. The special business was to receive
the report of the forest perambulation; and the first anticipation of the later custom of continuing
the same parliament from one session to another can be discerned in the direction to the sheriffs
that they should return the same representatives of the shires and boroughs as had attended
the Lenten parliament of 1300, and only hold fresh elections in the case of such members as
had died or become incapacitated. During the ten days that the commons were in session stormy
scenes occurred. Edward would only promise to agree to the disafforestments recommended by
the perambulators, if the estates would assure him that he could do so, without violating his
coronation oath or disinheriting his crown. The estates refused to undertake this grave responsibility,
and a long catalogue of their grievances was presented to Edward by Henry of Keighley, knight
of the shire for Lancashire, and one of the first members of the third estate of whose individual
action history has preserved any trace. The commons demanded a fresh confirmation of the charters;
the punishment of the royal ministers who had infringed them, or the Articuli super cartas
of the previous session, and the completion of the proposed disafforestments. In addition,
the prelates declared that they could not assent to any tax being imposed upon the clergy contrary
to the papal prohibition. Among the ministers specially signalled out for attack was the treasurer,
Bishop Walter Langton, and in this Edward discerned the influence of Winchelsea, for he was
Langton's personal enemy. The king's disgust at the primate's action was the more complete
since Bishop Bek now arrayed himself on the side of the opposition. Edward showed his ill-will
by consigning Henry of Keighley to prison. But the coalition was too formidable to be withstood.
The king agreed to all the secular demands of the estates, accepted the hated disafforestments
and directed the re-issue of a further confirmation of the charters, but refused his assent
to the demand of the prelates. A grant of a fifteenth was then made, and Edward dismissed the
popular representatives on January 30, retaining the prelates and nobles for further business.
On February 14, the last confirmation of the charters concluded the long chapter of history,
which had begun at Runnymede.

Edward strove to separate his baronial and his clerical enemies, and found an opportunity,
which he was not slow to use, in the uncompromising papalism of Winchelsea. Boniface VIII.
had no sooner settled the relations of England and France than he threw himself with ardour
into an attempt to establish peace between England and Scotland. Scottish emissaries, including
perhaps Wallace himself, gave Boniface their version of the ancient relations of the two crowns.
On June 27, 1299, the pope issued the letter Scimus, fili, in which he claimed that Scotland
specially belonged to the apostolic see, on the ground that it was converted through the relics
of St. Andrew. He denied all feudal dependence of Scotland on Edward, and explained away the
submissions of 1291 as arising from such momentary fear as might fall upon the most steadfast.
If Edward persisted in his claims, he was to submit them to the judgment of the Roman curia
within the next six months. In 1300 Winchelsea, who fully accepted the new papal doctrine,
sought out Edward in the midst of the Carlaverock campaign and presented him with Boniface's
letter. Edward's hot temper fired up at the archbishop's ill-timed intervention, and subsequent
military failures had not smoothed over the situation. His wrath reached its climax when Winchelsea
once more stirred up opposition in the Lincoln parliament, and his refusal of a demand, which
the primate had astutely added to the commons' requests, showed that he was prepared for war
to the knife. Edward laid the papal letter before the earls and barons that still tarried with
him at Lincoln. His appeal to their patriotism was not unsuccessful. A letter was drawn up,
which was sealed, then and subsequently, by more than a hundred secular magnates, in which
Boniface was roundly told that the King of England was in no wise bound to answer in the pope's
court as to his rights over the realm of Scotland or as to any other temporal matter, and that
the papal claim was unprecedented, and prejudicial to Edward's sovereignly. A longer historical
statement was composed by the king's order in answer to Boniface. It is not certain that the
two documents ever reached the pope, but they had great effect in influencing English opinion
and in breaking down the alliance between the baronage and the ecclesiastical party.[1] Winchelsea's
influence was fatally weakened, and the period of his overthrow was at hand.

    [1] See, on the barons' letter, the Ancestor, for July and
    October, 1903, and Jan., 1904.

The triumph over Winchelsea made Edward's position stronger than it had been during the first
days of the Lincoln parliament. That assembly ended amidst the festivities which attended the
creation of Edward of Carnarvon as Prince of Wales, Earl of Chester, and Count of Ponthieu.
The new prince, already seventeen years of age, had made his first campaign in the previous
year. But all the pains that Edward took in training his son in warfare and in politics bore
little fruit, and Edward of Carnarvon's introduction to active life was only to add another
trouble to the many that beset the king.

When the truce with Scotland expired, in the summer of 1301, Edward again led an army over
the border, in which the Prince of Wales appeared, at the head of a large Welsh contingent.
Little of military importance happened. Edward remained in Scotland over the cold season, and
kept his Christmas court at Linlithgow. Men and horses perished amidst the rigours of the northern
winter, and, before the end of January, 1302, the king was glad to accept a truce, suggested
by Philip of France, to last until the end of November. Immediately afterwards he was called
to the south by the negotiations for a permanent peace with France, which still hung fire despite
his marriage to the French king's sister. The earlier stages of the negotiation were transacted
at Rome, but it was soon clear to Edward that no good would come to him from the intervention
of the curia. The fundamental difficulty still lay in the refusal of Philip to relax his grasp
on Gascony. Not even the exaltation, consequent on the success of the famous jubilee of 1300,
blinded Boniface to the patent fact that he dared not order the restitution of Gascony. "We
cannot give you an award," declared the pope to the English envoys in 1300. "If we pronounced
in your favour, the French would not abide by it, and could not be compelled, for they would
make light of any penalty." "What the French once lay hold of," he said again, "they never
let go, and to have to do with the French is to have to do with the devil."[1] A year later
Boniface could do no more than appeal to the crusading zeal of Edward not to allow his claim
on a patch of French soil to stand between him and his vow. With such commonplaces the papal
mediation died away.

    [1] See the remarkable report of the Bishop of Winchester to
    Edward printed in Engl. Hist. Review, xvii. (1902), pp.
    518-27.

Two events in 1302 indirectly contributed towards the establishment of a permanent peace. These
were the successful revolt of Flanders from French domination, and the renewed quarrel between
Philip and Boniface. On May 18, the Flemings, in the "matins of Bruges," cruelly avenged themselves
for the oppressions which they had endured from Philip's officials, and on July 11 the revolted
townsfolk won the battle of Courtrai, in which their heavy armed infantry defeated the feudal
cavalry of France, a victory of the same kind as that Wallace had vainly hoped to gain at Falkirk.
Even before the Flemish rising, the reassertion of high sacerdotal doctrine in the bull Ausculta,
fili had renewed the strife between Boniface and the French king. A few months later the bull
Unam sanctam laid down with emphasis the doctrine that those who denied that the temporal sword
belongs to St. Peter were heretics, unmindful of the teachings of Christ. Thus began the famous
difference that went on with ever-increasing fury until the outrage at Anagni, on September
7, 1303, brought about the fall of Boniface and the overthrow of the Hildebrandine papacy.
Meanwhile Philip was devoting his best energies to constant, and not altogether vain, attempts
to avenge the defeat of Courtrai, and re-establish his hold on Flanders. With these two affairs
on his hands, it was useless for him to persevere in his attempt to hold Gascony.

In the earlier stages of his quarrel with Philip, Boniface built great hopes on Edward's support,
and strongly urged him to fight for holy Church against the impious French king. But Edward
had suffered too much from Boniface to fall into so obvious a trap. His hold over his own clergy
was so firm that Winchelsea himself had no chance of taking up the papal call to battle. Thus
it was that Unam sanctam produced no such clerical revolt in England as Clericis laicos had
done. It was Edward's policy to make use of Philip's necessities to win back Gascony, and cut
off all hope of French support from the Scottish patriots. Philip himself was the more disposed
to agree with his brother-in-law's wishes, because about Christmas, 1302, Bordeaux threw off
the French yoke and called in the English. The best way to save French dignity was by timely
concession. Accordingly, on May 20, 1303, the definitive treaty of Paris was sealed, by which
the two kings were pledged to "perpetual peace and friendship". Gascony was restored, and Edward
agreed that he, or his son, should perform liege homage for it. With the discharge of this
duty by the younger Edward at Amiens, in 1304, the last stage of the pacification was accomplished.
For the rest of the reign, England and France remained on cordial terms. Neither Edward nor
Philip had resources adequate to the accomplishment of great schemes of foreign conquest. Though
Edward got back Gascony, he owed it, not to his own power, but to the embarrassment of his rival.

While completing his pacification with Philip the Fair, Edward was busily engaged in establishing
his power at home, at the expense of the clerical and baronial opposition, which had stood
for so many years in the way of the conquest of Scotland. Since the parliament of Lincoln,
Winchelsea was no longer dangerous. He failed even to get Boniface on his side in a scandalous
attack which he instigated on Bishop Langton. His constant efforts to enlarge his jurisdiction
raised up enemies all over his diocese and province, and the mob of his cathedral city broke
open his palace, while he was in residence there. His inability to introduce into England even
a pale reflection of the struggle of Philip and the pope showed how clearly he had lost influence
since the days of Clericis laicos. A more recent convert to higher clerical pretensions also
failed. Bishop Bek of Durham lost all his power, and was deprived of his temporalities by the
king in 1302. Two years later the insignificant Archbishop of York also incurred the royal
displeasure, and was punished in the same fashion. With Durham, Norhamshire, and Hexhamshire
all in the royal hands, the road into Scotland was completely open.

The heavy hand of Edward fell upon earls as well as upon bishops. Even in the early days of
his reign when none, save Gilbert of Gloucester, dared uplift the standard of opposition, Edward
had not spared the greatest barons in his efforts to eliminate the idea of tenure from English
political life. A subtle extension of his earlier policy began to emphasise the dependence
of the landed dignitaries on his pleasure. The extinction of several important baronial houses
made this the easier, and Edward took care to retain escheats in his own hands, or at least
to entrust them only to persons of approved confidence. The old leaders of opposition were
dead or powerless. Ralph of Monthermer, the simple north-country knight who had won the hand
of Joan of Acre, ruled over the Gloutester-Glamorgan inheritance on behalf of his wife and
Edward's little grandson, Gilbert of Clare. The Earl of Hereford died in 1299, and in 1302
his son and successor, another Humphrey Bohun, was bribed by a marriage with the king's daughter,
Elizabeth, the widowed Countess of Holland, to surrender his lands to the crown and receive
them back, like the Earl of Gloucester in 1290, entailed on the issue of himself and his consort.
In the same year the childless earl marshal, Roger Bigod, conscious of his inability to continue
any longer his struggle against royal assumptions and at variance with his brother and heir,
made a similar surrender of his estates, which was the more humiliating since the estate in
tail, with which he was reinvested, was bound to terminate with his life. In 1306, on the marshal's
death, the Bigod inheritance lapsed to the crown. Much earlier than that, in 1293, Edward had
extorted on her deathbed from the great heiress, Isabella of Fors, Countess of Albemarle and
Devon, the bequest of the Isle of Wight and the adjacent castle of Christchurch. In 1300, on
the death of the king's childless cousin, Earl Edmund, the wealthy earldom of Cornwall escheated
to the crown. To Edward's contemporaries the acquisition of the earldoms of Norfolk and Cornwall
seemed worthy to be put alongside the conquests of Wales and Scotland.[1]

    [1] See John of London, Commendatio lamentabilis in Chron.
    of Edw. I. and Edw. II., ii., 8-9. See for the earldoms my
    Earldoms under Edward I. in Transactions of the Royal
    Historical Society, new ser., viii. (1894), 129-155.

Even more important as adding to Edward's resources than these direct additions to the royal
domains, was the increasing dependence of the remaining earls upon the crown. His sons-in-law
of Gloucester and Hereford were entirely under his sway. In 1304 the aged Earl Warenne had
died, and in 1306 his grandson and successor was bound closely to the royal policy by his marriage
with Joan of Bar, Edward's grand-daughter. In the same way Edward's young nephew, Thomas of
Lancaster, ruled over the three earldoms of Lancaster, Derby, and Leicester, and by his marriage
to the daughter and heiress of Henry Lacy, was destined to add to his immense estates the additional
earldoms of Lincoln and Salisbury. Edward of Carnarvon was learning the art of government in
Wales, Cheshire, and Ponthieu. The policy of concentrating the higher baronial dignities in
the royal family was no novelty, but Edward carried it out more systematically and successfully
than any of his predecessors. He reaped the immediate advantages of his dexterity in the extinction
of baronial opposition and in the zeal of the baronial levies against the Scots during the
concluding years of his reign. Yet the later history of the Middle Ages bears witness to the
grievous dangers to the wielder of the royal power which lurked beneath a system so attractive
in appearance.

The truce with the Scots ended in November, 1302, and Edward despatched a strong force to the
north under John Segrave. On February 24, 1303, Segrave, attacked unexpectedly by the enemy
at Roslin, near Edinburgh, suffered a severe defeat. The conclusion of the treaty of Paris
gave Edward the opportunity for avenging the disaster. He summoned his levies to assemble at
Roxburgh for Whitsuntide and, a fortnight before that time, appeared in person in Tweeddale.
After seven weary years of waiting and failure, he was at last in a position to wear down the
obstinate Scots by the same systematic and deliberate policy that had won for him the principality
of Wales. The invasion of Scotland was henceforth to continue as long as the Scottish resistance.
Adequate resources were procured to enable the royal armies to hold the field, and a politic
negotiation with the foreign merchants resulted in a carta mercatoria by which additional customs
were imposed upon English exports. These imposts, known as the "new and small customs," as
opposed to the "old and great customs" established in 1275, were not sanctioned by parliamentary
grant: but for the moment they provoked no opposition. Thus Edward was equipped both with men
and money for his undertaking. At last the true conquest of Scotland began.

No attempt was made in the Lothians to stop Edward's advance, but the Scots, under the regent,
John Comyn of Badenoch, made a vigorous effort to hold the line of the Forth against him. Their
plan seemed to promise well, for Stirling castle was still in Scottish hands. Edward crossed
the river by a ford, and all organised efforts to oppose him at once ceased. Prudently leaving
Stirling to itself for the present, he hurried to Perth. After spending most of June and July
at Perth, he led his army northwards, nearly following the line of his advance in 1296, through
Perth, Brechin, and Aberdeen, to Banff and Elgin. The most remote point reached was Kinloss,
a few miles west of Elgin, in which neighbourhood he spent much of September. Then he slowly
retraced his steps and took up his winter quarters at Dunfermline. In all this long progress,
the only energetic resistance which Edward encountered was at Brechin. Flushed with his triumph,
he ordered Stirling to be besieged, and from April, 1304, directed the operations himself.
The garrison held out with the utmost gallantry, but at last a breach was effected in the walls,
and on July 24 the defenders laid down their arms. Long before the Scots people despaired of
withstanding the invader, the nobles grew cold in the defence of their country. In February,
1304, the regent and many of the earls made their submission. It was more than suspected that
this result was brought about by the threat of Edward to divide their lands among his English
followers. But on Comyn and his friends showing a desire to yield, the king readily promised
them their lives and estates. Believing that his task was over, Edward returned to England
in August after an absence of nearly fifteen months. He crossed the Humber early in December,
kept his Christmas court at Lincoln, and reached London late in February. As a sign of the
completion of the conquest, he ordered that the law courts, which since 1297 had been established
at York, should resume their sessions in London.

A few heroes still upheld the independence of Scotland. Foremost among them was Sir William
Wallace, who, since his mission to France in 1298, had disappeared from history. The submission
of the barons to Edward gave him another chance. He took a strenuous part in the struggle of
1303-4, and he was specially exempted from the easy pardons with which Edward purchased the
submission of the greater nobles. It was the daring and skill of Wallace that prolonged the
Scots' struggle until the spring of 1305. But he was then once more an outlaw and a fugitive,
only formidable by his hold over the people, and by the possibility that the smallest spark
of resistance might at any time be blown into a flame. At last he was captured through the
zeal, or treachery, of a Scot in Edward's service. In August, Wallace was despatched to London
to stand a public trial for treason, sedition, sacrilege, and murder. He denied that he had
ever become Edward's subject, but did not escape conviction. With his execution, the last stage
of Edward's triumph in Scotland was accomplished. Though the full measure of Wallace's fame
belongs to a later age rather than his own, yet it was a sure instinct that made the Scottish
people celebrate him as the popular hero of their struggle for independence. His courage, persistency,
and daring stands in marked contrast to the self-seeking opportunism of the great nobles, who
afterwards appropriated the results of his endeavours. Yet we can hardly blame Edward for making
an example of him, when he fell into his power. Even if Wallace had successfully evaded the
oath of fealty to Edward, it is scarcely reasonable to expect that the king would consider
this technical plea as availing against his doctrine that all Scots were necessarily his subjects
since the submission of 1296. It was Wallace's glory that he fought his fight and paid the
penalty of it.

A full parliament of the three estates sat with the king at Westminster from February 28 to
March 21, 1305. The proceedings of this assembly are known with a fulness exceeding that of
the record of any of the other parliaments of the reign.[1] Among the matters enumerated in
the writs as specially demanding attention was the "establishment of our realm of Scotland".
Three Scottish magnates, Robert Wishart, Bishop of Glasgow, Robert Bruce, Earl of Carrick,
and John Mowbray were particularly called upon to give their advice as to how Scotland was
to be represented in a later parliament, in which the plans for its future government were
to be drawn up. They informed the king that two bishops, two abbots, two barons, and two representatives
of the commons, one from the south of the Forth and the other from the north thereof, would
be sufficient for this purpose. This further "parliament" assembled on September 15, three
weeks after the execution of Wallace. It consisted simply of twenty councillors of Edward,
and the ten Scottish delegates. From the joint deliberations of these thirty sprang the "ordinance
made by the lord king for the establishment of the land of Scotland".

    [1] See Memoranda, de parliamento (1305), ed. F.W. Maitland
    (Rolls Series).

Following the general lines of the settlement of the principality of Wales, the ordinance combined
Edward's direct lordship over Scotland with a legal and administrative system separate from
that of England. John of Brittany, Earl of Richmond, the king's sister's son, was made Edward's
lieutenant and warden of Scotland, and under him were a chancellor, a chamberlain, and a controller.
Scotland was to be split up for judicial purposes into districts corresponding to its racial
and political divisions. Four pairs of justices were appointed for each of these regions, two
for Lothian, two for Galloway and the south-west, two for the lands "between Forth and the
mountains," that is the Lowland districts of the north-east, and two for the lands "beyond
the mountains," that is for the Highlands and islands. Sheriffs "natives either of England
or Scotland" were nominated for each of the shires, and it was significant that the great majority
of them were Scots and that the hereditary sheriffdoms of the older system were still continued.
The "custom of the Scots and the Welsh," that is the Celtic laws of the Highlanders and the
Strathclyde Welsh, was "henceforth prohibited and disused". John of Brittany was to "assemble
the good people of Scotland in a convenient place" where "the laws of King David and the amendments
by other kings" were to be rehearsed, and such of these laws as are "plainly against God and
reason" were to be reformed, all doubtful matters being referred to the judgment of Edward.
The king's lieutenant was bidden to "remove such persons as might disturb the peace" to the
south of the Trent, but their deportation was to be in "courteous fashion" and after taking
the advice of the "good people of Scotland". Care for the preservation of the peace, and for
administrative reform, is seen in the oath imposed upon officials and in the pains taken to
secure the custody of the castles. The Scots parliament was to be retained, and recent precedents
also suggested the probability of Scottish representation in the parliament of England. If
Scotland were to be ruled by Edward at all, it would have been difficult to devise a wiser
scheme for its administration. Yet the Scottish love of independence was not to be bartered
away for better government. Within six months the new constitution was overthrown, and the
chief part in its destruction was taken by the Scots by whose advice Edward had drawn it up.

Edward at last felt himself in a position to take his long deferred revenge on Winchelsea.
The primate still kept aloof from the councils of the king, and his spirit was as irreconcilable
as ever. He gained his last victory in the Lenten parliament of 1305, when he prevented the
promulgation of a statute, passed on the petition of the laity, but agreed to by all the estates,
which forbade taxes on ecclesiastical property involving the exportation of money out of the
country.[1] At this moment the long vacancy of the papacy, which followed the pontificate of
Benedict XI., Boniface VIII.'s short-lived successor, had not yet come to an end. Soon, however,
Winchelsea's zeal on behalf of papal taxation was to be ill requited. On June 5, 1305, Bertrand
de Goth, a Gascon nobleman who since 1299 had been archbishop of Bordeaux, was elected to the
papacy as Clement V., through the management of Philip the Fair. A dependant of the King of
France and a subject of the King of England, the new pope showed a complaisance towards kings
which stood in strong contrast to the ultramontane austerity of his predecessors. He refused
to visit Italy, received the papal crown at Lyons, and spent the first years of his pontificate
in Poitou and Gascony. Ultimately establishing himself at Avignon, he began that seventy years
of Babylonish captivity of the apostolic see which greatly degraded the papacy. Though Clement's
main concern was to fulfil the exacting conditions which, as it was believed, Philip had imposed
upon him, he was almost as subservient to Edward as to the King of France. His deference to
his natural lord enabled Edward to renounce the most irksome of the obligations which he had
incurred to his subjects, to punish Winchelsea, and to restrain Roman authority by laws which
anticipate the legislation of the age of Edward III.

    [1] Memoranda de parliamento, preface, p. li. The statement
    in the text is an inference suggested by Professor Maitland's
    account of the statute De asportis religiosorum. For the last
    struggle of Edward and Winchelsea, see Stubbs's preface to
    Chron. of Edw. I. and Edw. II., i., xcix.-cxiii.

At Clement V.'s coronation at Lyons, in November, England was represented by Winchelsea's old
enemy, Bishop Walter Langton, and by the Earl of Lincoln. The first result of their work was
the promulgation, on December 29, of the bull Regalis devotionis, by which the pope annulled
the additions made to the charters in 1297 and succeeding years, and dispensed Edward from
the oath which he had taken to observe them, on the ground that it was in conflict with his
coronation vows. Next year Edward took advantage of this bull to revoke the disafforestments
made by the parliament of Lincoln in 1301. It may be a sign either of the moderation, or of
the well-grounded fears of the king, that he made no further use of the papal absolution. But,
like his father and grandfather, he used the papal authority to set aside his plighted word,
and his conduct in this respect suggests that it was well for England that the renewal of the
Scottish troubles reduced for the rest of the reign the temptation, which the bull held out
to him, to play fast and loose with the liberties of his subjects. The standards of contemporary
morality were not, however, infringed by Edward's action, dishonourable and undignified as
it seems to us of later times.

Winchelsea's turn was at last come. On February 12, 1306, Clement suspended him from his office,
and summoned him to appear before the curia. On March 25 the archbishop humbled himself before
Edward and begged for his protection. But the king overwhelmed him with reproaches and refused
to show him any mercy. Within two months, the primate took ship for France and made his way
to the papal court, which was then established at Bordeaux. He remained in exile, though in
the English king's dominions, for the rest of Edward's life. A less harsh punishment was meted
out to the Bishop of Durham, who then came back from the court of Clement with the magnificent
title of Patriarch of Jerusalem. For a second time Edward laid violent hands upon the rich
temporalities of the see, and Bek, like Winchelsea, remained under a cloud for the remainder
of the reign.

Clement expected to be paid for yielding so much to the king. A papal agent, William de Testa,
was sent to England, and to him Edward gave the administration of the temporalities of Canterbury.
William's energy in collecting first-fruits aroused a storm of opposition from the clergy.
The laity, disgusted to find that the king was negotiating for the transference of a crusading
tenth to himself, associated themselves with their protest. Clement thereupon despatched the
Cardinal Peter of Spain to England, that he might attempt to arrange a general pacification,
and complete the marriage of the Prince of Wales to Isabella of France, which had been agreed
upon in 1303. Before the cardinal's arrival, Edward's last parliament met in January, 1307,
at Carlisle. The renewed disturbances in Scotland necessitated a meeting on the border, but
the main transactions of the estates bore upon matters ecclesiastical. The lords and commons
joined in demanding from the king a remedy against the oppressions of the apostolic see. A
spirited and strongly worded protest was addressed to the pope. Nor were the estates contented
with mere remonstrances. The statute of Carlisle renewed the abortive measure of 1305 De asportis
religiosorum, by prohibiting tallages of religious houses being sent out of the realm. Had
the petition of the estates been drafted into a statute, the parliament of Carlisle would have
anticipated the statute of Praemunire and many other anti-papal enactments. But Peter of Spain
arrived, and Edward thought it injudicious to provoke a contest with the papacy. Even the petition
actually approved was left in suspense to await further negotiations between the king and the
cardinal. Before any decision was come to, Edward died, and this anti-Roman movement, like
so many which had preceded it, resulted in little more than brave words. When, two generations
later, a more resolute temper seized upon king and estates, they fell back upon the petitions
and proceedings of the parliament of Carlisle for precedents for resisting the papal authority.
With all its pitiful conclusion, Edward's ecclesiastical policy at least marks a step in advance
upon the dependent attitude of Henry III.

In the period of peace after the conquest of Scotland, Edward busied himself with strengthening
the administration of his own kingdom and with enforcing the laws against violence and outrage.
Under the strongest of medieval kings, the state of society was very disorderly, and even a
ruler like Edward had often to be contented with holding up in his legislation an ideal of
conduct which he was powerless to enforce in detail. Complaints had long been made that the
greater nobles encroached upon poor men's inheritances, that gangs of marauders ranged over
the country, wreaking every sort of violence and outrage, and that the law courts would give
no redress to the sufferers from such outrageous deeds, since judges and juries were alike
terrorised by overmighty offenders and dared not administer equal justice. Accordingly in the
Lenten parliament of 1305 was drawn up the ordinance of Trailbaston, by which the king was
empowered to issue writs of inquiry, addressed to special justices in the various shires, and
authorising them to take vigorous action against these trailbastons, or men with clubs, whose
outrages had become so grievous. It was not so much a new law as an administrative act; but
it formed a precedent for later times, and the energy of the justices of trailbaston effected
a real, if temporary, improvement in the condition of the country. So important was the measure
that a chronicler calls the year in which this was enacted the "year of trailbaston".[1]

    [1] Liber de antiquis legibus, p. 250.

Never did Edward's prospects seem brighter than in the early days of 1306. Scotland was obedient;
the French alliance was firmly cemented; the pope was complacent; the Archbishop of Canterbury
was in exile and the Bishop of Durham in disgrace; the commons were grateful for the better
order secured by the commissions of trailbaston, and the king had in the papal absolution a
weapon in reserve, which he could always use against a renewal of baronial opposition, though,
for the moment, neither nobles nor commons seemed likely to give trouble. Once more there was
some talk of Edward leading a crusade, and the French lawyer, Peter Dubois, at this time dedicated
to him the first draft of his remarkable treatise on the recovery of the Holy Land.[1] Nor
did the project seem altogether impracticable. Though Edward was sixty-seven years of age,
he remained slim, vigorous and straight as a palm tree. He could mount his horse and ride to
the hunt or the field with the activity of youth. His eyes were not dimmed with age and his
teeth were still firm in his jaws.[2] The worst trouble which immediately beset him, was the
undutiful conduct of the young Prince of Wales, who foolishly quarrelled with Bishop Langton,
and preferred to amuse himself with unworthy favourites rather than submit himself to the severe
training in arms and affairs to which Edward had long striven to inure him. When all thus seemed
favourable, a sudden storm burst in Scotland which plunged the old king into renewed troubles.

    [1] De recuperatione terre sancte, ed. C.V. Langlois (1891).

    [2] John of London, Commendatio lamentabilis, pp. 5-6.

In 1304 Robert Bruce, Earl of Carrick, became by his father's death the head of his house.
Though he had long adhered to the regency which had governed Scotland in Balliol's name, he
had now made terms with Edward, and had taken a conspicuous part in bringing about the pacification
of Scotland under its new constitution. But the double policy, which had involved him in the
shifts and tergiversations of his earlier career, still dominated the mind of the ambitious
earl. At the moment of his submission to Edward, he entered into an intimate alliance with
Bishop Lamberton of St. Andrews, the old partisan of Wallace. Lamberton was then, like Bruce,
on Edward's side, and as John of Brittany had not yet personally taken up his new charge, the
blind confidence of Edward entrusted him with the foremost place among the commissioners who
acted as wardens of Scotland during the king's lieutenant's absence. Bruce, still remembering
his grandfather's claim on the throne, welcomed the definitive setting aside of Balliol. While
Edward believed that Scotland was quietening down under its new constitution, Bruce was secretly
conspiring with the Scottish magnates, with a view to making himself king. His chief difficulty
was with the late regent, John Comyn the Red, lord of Badenoch. The Bruces and the Comyns had
long been at variance, and the Red Comyn, who was the nephew of the deposed King John, regarded
himself as the representative of the Balliol claim to the throne, and was not unmindful how
his father had withdrawn his pretensions in 1291 rather than divide the Balliol interest. Meanwhile
the antagonism of the two houses was the best safeguard for the continuance of Edward's rule.

Bruce was violent as well as able and ambitious. He invited Comyn to a conference for January
10, 1306, in the Franciscan friary at Dumfries. On that day the king's justices were holding
the assizes in the castle, and Brace and Comyn, with a few followers, met in the cloister of
the convent. Hot words were exchanged, and Bruce drew his sword and wounded Comyn. The lord
of Badenoch took refuge in the church, and some of Bruce's friends followed him and slew him
on the steps of the high altar. This cruel murder involved a violent breach between Bruce and
the king. The earl took to the hills, declared himself the champion of national independence,
and renewed his claim to the crown. He was joined by a great multitude of the people and by
a certain number of the magnates. Conspicuous among the latter was Bishop Wishart of Glasgow,
who broke his sixth oath of fealty, using the timber given him by Edward for building the steeple
of his cathedral in constructing military engines to besiege the castles which were still held
for the English king. Before long Bishop Lamberton, the chief of the Edwardian government,
also went over. The support of the two bishops enabled Bruce to be crowned on March 25 at Scone.
All Scotland was soon in revolt, and only the garrisons and a few magnates remained faithful
to Edward.

News of the death of Comyn and the revolt of Bruce reached Edward, while engaged in hunting
in Dorset and Wiltshire. He at once called upon Church and State to unite against the sacreligious
murderer and traitor. Clement V. excommunicated the Earl of Carrick, and deprived Lamberton
and Wishart of their bishoprics. The warlike zeal of the English barons was stimulated by liberal
grants of the forfeited estates of Bruce and his partisans. Feeling the infirmities of age
coming upon him, Edward saw that his best chance of success was to inspire his son with something
of his spirit. The Prince of Wales accordingly received a grant of Gascony, and on Whitsunday,
May 22, was dubbed knight at Westminster along with over two hundred other aspirants to arms.
A magnificent feast in Westminster Hall succeeded the ceremony. Two swans, adorned with golden
chains, were brought in, and the old king set to all the revellers the example of vowing on
the swans to revenge the murder of Comyn. Edward swore that when he had expiated this wrong
to Holy Church, he would never more bear arms against Christian man, but would immediately
turn his steps towards the Holy Land to redeem the Holy Sepulchre. The Prince of Wales' vow
was never to rest two nights in the same spot until he had reached Scotland to assist his father
in his purpose. Then all the young knights were despatched northwards to overthrow the Scottish
pretender.

A liberal grant from the estates facilitated the military preparations. But since the beginning
of the year, Edward's strength had rapidly broken. He was no longer able to ride, and his movements
were consequently very tedious. His army gathered together with more than the usual slowness,
and Aymer of Valence, Earl of Pembroke, the king's cousin, was sent forward as warden of Scotland
to meet Bruce with such forces as were ready. On June 26 Aymer fell upon Bruce at Methven,
near Perth, and inflicted a severe defeat upon him. The power of the pretender died away as
rapidly as it had arisen. The Bishops of St. Andrews and Glasgow were made prisoners, and Bruce's
brothers, wife, and daughter fell into the enemy's hands. The brothers were promptly beheaded,
though one of them was an ecclesiastic, and the ladies were confined in English nunneries.
Bruce himself fled to Kintyre, and thence to Rathlin island, off the coast of Antrim.

Edward went north in July, and, after a long stay in Northumberland, took up his quarters early
in October with the Austin canons of Lanercost, near Carlisle. There he remained for above
five months. In January, 1307, the parliament, whose anti-clerical policy has already been
recounted, assembled at Carlisle, and remained in session until March. With the spring, Brace
crossed over from Ireland, and re-appeared in his own lands in the south-west. In May he revenged
the rout of Methven by inflicting a bloody check on Aymer of Valence near Ayr, and within three
days gained another victory over Edward's son-in-law, Earl Ralph of Gloucester. These blows
only spurred on Edward to increased efforts. The levies were summoned to meet at Carlisle and,
regardless of his infirmities, the old king resolved to lead his troops in person. On July
3 he once more mounted his horse and started for the border. But his constitution could not
respond to the demands made on it by his unbroken spirit. After a journey of two miles he was
forced to rest for the night. Next day he could only traverse a similar distance, and his exertions
so fatigued him that he was compelled to remain at his lodgings all the following day. This
repose enabled him to make his way, on July 6, to Burgh-on-Sands, less than seven miles from
Carlisle, where he spent the night. On July 7, as he was being raised in his bed by his attendants
to take his morning meal, he fell back in their arms and expired.

CHAPTER XII.

GAVESTON, THE ORDAINERS, AND BANNOCKBURN.

Edward of Carnarvon was over twenty-three years of age when he became king. Tall, graceful,
and handsome, with magnificent health and exceptional bodily strength, the young king was,
so far as externals went, almost as fine a man as his father. Yet no one could have been more
absolutely destitute of all those qualities which constitute Edward I.'s claims to greatness.
An utter want of serious purpose blasted his whole career. It was in vain that his father subjected
him to a careful training in statecraft and in military science. Though not lacking in intelligence,
the young prince from the first to the last concerned himself with nothing but his own amusements.
A confirmed gambler and a deep drinker, Edward showed a special bent for unkingly and frivolous
diversions. Save in his devotion for the chase, his tastes had nothing in common with the high-born
youths with whom he was educated. He showed himself a coward on the battlefield, and shirked
even the mimic warfare of the tournament. He repaid the contempt and dislike of his own class
by withdrawing himself from the society of the nobles, and associating himself with buffoons,
singers, play-actors, coachmen, ditchers, watermen, sailors, and smiths. Of the befitting comrades
of his youth, the only one of the higher aristocracy with whom he had any true intimacy was
his nephew, Gilbert of Clare, while the only member of his household for whom he showed real
affection was the Gascon knight, Peter of Gaveston.[1] Attributing his son's levity to Gaveston's
corrupting influence, the old king had banished the foreign favourite early in 1307. But no
change in his surroundings could stir up the prince's frivolous nature to fulfil the duties
of his station. Edward's most kingly qualities were love of fine clothes and of ceremonies.
Passionately fond of rowing, driving, horse-breeding, and the rearing of dogs, his ordinary
occupations were those of the athlete or the artisan. He was skilful with his hands, and an
excellent mechanic, proficient at the anvil and the forge, and proud of his skill in digging
ditches and thatching roofs. Interested in music, and devoted to play-acting, he was badly
educated, taking the coronation oath in the French form provided for a king ignorant of Latin.
Vain, irritable, and easily moved to outbursts of childish wrath, he was half-conscious of
the weakness of his will, and was never without a favourite, whose affection compensated him
for his subjects' contempt. The household of so careless a master was disorderly beyond the
ordinary measure of the time. While Edward irritated the nobles by his neglect of their counsel,
he vexed the commons by the exactions of his purveyors.

    [1] That is Gabaston, dep. Basses Pyrénées, cant. Morlaas.

The task which lay before Edward might well have daunted a stronger man. The old king had failed
in the great purpose of his life. Scotland was in full revolt and had found a man able to guide
her destinies. The crown was deeply in debt; the exchequer was bare of supplies, and the revenues
both of England and Gascony were farmed by greedy and unpopular companies of Italian bankers,
such as the Frescobaldi of Florence, the king's chief creditors. The nobles, though restrained
by the will of the old king, still cherished the ideals of the age of the Barons' War, and
were convinced that the best way to rule England was to entrust the machinery of the central
government, which Edward I. had elaborated with so much care, to the control of a narrow council
of earls and prelates. Winchelsea, though broken in health, looked forward in his banishment
to the renewal of the alliance of baronage and clergy, and to the reassertion of hierarchical
ideals. The papal curia, already triumphant in the last days of the reign of the dead king,
was anticipating a return to the times of Henry III, when every dignity of the English Church
was at its mercy. The strenuous endeavour which had marked the last reign gave place to the
extreme of negligence.

Edward at once broke with the policy of his father. After receiving, at Carlisle, the homage
of the English magnates, he crossed the Solway to Dumfries, where such Scottish barons as had
not joined Robert Bruce took oaths of fealty to him. He soon relinquished the personal conduct
of the war, and travelled slowly to Westminster on the pretext of following his father's body
to its last resting-place. He replaced his father's ministers by dependants of his own. Bishop
Walter Langton, the chief minister of the last years of Edward I., was singled out for special
vengeance. He was stripped of his offices, robbed of his treasure, and thrown into close confinement,
without any regard to the immunities of a churchman from secular jurisdiction. Langton's place
as treasurer was given to Walter Reynolds, an illiterate clerk, who had won the chief place
in Edward's household through his skill in theatricals. Ralph Baldock, Bishop of London, was
replaced in the chancery by John Langton, Bishop of Chichester. The barons of the exchequer,
the justices of the high courts, and the other ministers of the old king were removed in favour
of more complacent successors. Signal favour was shown to all who had fallen under Edward I.'s
displeasure. Bishop Bek, of Durham, was restored to his palatinate, and the road to return
opened to Winchelsea, though ill-health detained him on the Continent for some time longer.
Conspicuous among the returned exiles was Peter of Gaveston, whom the king welcomed with the
warmest affection. He at once invested his "brother Peter" with the rich earldom of Cornwall,
which the old king, with the object of conferring it on one of his sons by his second marriage,
had kept in his hands since Earl Edmund's death. A little later Edward married the favourite
to his niece, Margaret of Clare, the eldest sister of Earl Gilbert of Gloucester. Of the tried
comrades of Edward I. the only one who remained in authority was Henry Lacy, Earl of Lincoln.
The abandonment of the Scottish campaign soon followed. It was no wonder that the Scots lords,
who had performed homage to Edward at Dumfries, began to turn to Bruce. Already king of the
Scottish commons, Robert was in a fair way to become accepted by the whole people.

The readiness with which the barons acquiesced in Edward's reversal of his father's policy
shows that they had regarded the late king's action with little favour. Lincoln, the wisest
and most influential of the earls, even found reasons for the grant of Cornwall to Gaveston,
and kept in check his son-in-law, Earl Thomas of Lancaster, who was the most disposed to grumble
at the elevation of the Gascon favourite. Gilbert of Gloucester was but newly come to his earldom.
He was personally attached to the king, his old playmate and uncle, and was not unfriendly
to his Gascon brother-in-law. The recent concentration of the great estates in the hands of
a few individuals gave these three earls a position of overwhelming importance both in the
court and in the country, and with their good-will Edward was safe. But the weakness of the
king and the rashness of the favourite soon caused murmurs to arise.

Early in 1308 Edward crossed over to France, leaving Gaveston as regent, and was married on
January 25, at Boulogne, to Philip the Fair's daughter Isabella, a child of twelve, to whom
he had been plighted since 1298. The marriage was attended by the French king and a great gathering
of the magnates of both countries. Opportunity was taken of the meeting for Edward to perform
homage for Aquitaine. After the arrival of the royal couple in England, their coronation took
place on February 25. Time had been when the reign began with the king's crowning; but Edward
had taken up every royal function immediately on his father's death, and set a precedent to
later sovereigns by dating his own accession from the day succeeding the decease of his predecessor.
The coronation ceremony, minutely recorded, provided precedents for later ages. It was some
recognition of the work of the last generation that the coronation oath was somewhat more rigid
and involved a more definite recognition of the rights of the community than on earlier occasions.
Winchelsea was still abroad, and the hallowing was performed by Henry Woodlock, Bishop of Winchester.

Discontent was already simmering. Not even Lincoln's weighty influence could overcome the irritation
of the earls at the elevation of the Gascon knight into their circle. The very virtues of the
vigorous favourite turned to his discredit. At a tournament given by him, at his own castle
of Wallingford, to celebrate his marriage with the king's niece, the new-made earl, with a
party of valiant knights, challenged a troop, which included the Earls of Hereford, Warenne,
and Arundel, and utterly discomfited his rivals.[1] The victory of the upstart over magnates
of such dignity was accounted for by treachery, and the prohibition of a coronation tournament,
probably a simple measure of police, was ascribed to the unwillingness of Peter to give his
opponents a legitimate opportunity of vindicating their skill. There had been much resentment
at Gaveston's appointment as regent during the king's absence in France. A further outburst
of indignation followed when the Gascon, magnificently arrayed and bedecked with jewels, bore
the crown of St. Edward in the coronation procession. The queen's uncles, who had escorted
her to her new home, left England disgusted that Edward's love for Gaveston led him to neglect
his bride, and the want of reserve shown in the personal dealings of the king and his "idol"
suggested the worst interpretation of their relations, though this is against the weight of
evidence. Rumours spread that the favourite had laid hands on the vast treasures which Bishop
Walter Langton had deposited at the New Temple, and had extorted from the king even larger
sums, which he had sent to his kinsfolk in Gascony by the agency of the Italian farmers of
the revenue.

    [1] Ann. Paulini, p. 258, and Monk of Malmesbury, p. 156, are
    to be preferred to Trokelowe, p. 65.

Gaveston was a typical Gascon, vain, loquacious, and ostentatious, proud of his own ready wit
and possessed of a fatal talent for sharp and bitter sayings. He seems to have been a brave
and generous soldier. There is little proof that he was specially vicious or incompetent, and,
had he been allowed time to establish himself, he might well have been the parent of a noble
house, as patriotic and as narrowly English as the Valence lords of Pembroke had become in
the second generation. But his sudden elevation rather turned his head, and the dull but dignified
English earls were soon mortally offended by his airs of superiority, and by his intervention
between them and the sovereign. "If," wrote the annalist of St. Paul's, London, "one of the
earls or magnates sought any special favour of the king, the king forthwith sent him to Peter,
and whatever Peter said or ordered at once took place, and the king ratified it. Hence the
whole people grew indignant that there should be two kings in one kingdom, one the king in
name, the other the king in reality." Gaveston's vanity was touched by the sullen hostility
of the earls. He returned their suspicion by an openly expressed contempt. He amused himself
and the king by devising nicknames for them. Thomas of Lancaster was the old pig or the play-actor,
Aymer of Pembroke was Joseph the Jew, Gilbert of Gloucester was the cuckoo, and Guy of Warwick
was the black dog of Arden. Such jests were bitterly resented. "If he call me dog," said Warwick
on hearing of the insult, "I will take care to bite him." The barons formed an association,
bound by oath to drive Gaveston into exile and deprive him of his earldom. All over the country
there were secret meetings and eager preparations for war. The outlook became still more alarming
when the Earl of Lincoln at last changed his policy. Convinced of the unworthiness of Gaveston,
he turned against him, and the whole baronage followed his lead. Only Hugh Despenser and a
few lawyers adhered to the favourite. Gloucester did not like to take an active part against
his brother-in-law, but his stepfather, Monthermer, was conspicuous among the enemies of the
Gascon. Winchelsea, too, came to England and threw his powerful influence on the side of the
opposition.

In April, 1308, a parliament of nobles met and insisted upon the exile of the favourite. The
magnates took up a high line. "Homage and the oath of allegiance," they declared, "are due
to the crown rather than to the person of the king. If the king behave unreasonably, his lieges
are bound to bring him back to the ways of righteousness." On May 18 letters patent were issued
promising that Gaveston should be banished before June 25. Gaveston, bending before the storm,
surrendered his earldom and prepared for departure, while Winchelsea and the bishops declared
him excommunicate if he tarried in England beyond the appointed day. The king did his best
to lighten his friend's misfortune. Fresh grants of land and castles compensated for the loss
of Cornwall and gave him means for armed resistance. The grant of Gascon counties, jurisdictions,
cities and castles to the value of 3,000 marks a year provided him with a dignified refuge.
The pope and cardinals were besought to relieve him from the sentence hung over his head by
the archbishop. It is significant of Edward's early intention to violate his promise, that
in his letters to the curia he still describes Gaveston as Earl of Cornwall. Peter was soon
appointed the king's lieutenant in Ireland. This time he was called Earl of Cornwall in a document
meant for English use. As midsummer approached, Edward accompanied him to Bristol and bade
him a sorrowful farewell. Attended by a numerous and splendid household, Gaveston crossed over
to Ireland and took up the government of that country, where his energy and liberality won
him considerable popularity.

Edward was inconsolable at the loss of his friend. For the first time in his reign he threw
himself into politics with interest, and intrigued with rare perseverance to bring about his
recall. Meanwhile the business of the state fell into deplorable confusion. No supplies were
raised; no laws were passed; no effort was made to stay the progress of Robert Bruce. The magnates
refused to help the king, and in April, 1309, Edward was forced to meet a parliament of the
three estates at Westminster. There he received a much-needed supply, but the barons and commons
drew up a long schedule of grievances, in which they complained of the abuses of purveyance,
the weakness of the government, the tyranny of the royal officials, and the delays in obtaining
justice. The estates refused point blank the king's request for the recall of Gaveston and
demanded an answer to their petitions in the next parliament.

Edward saw in submission to the estates the only way of bringing back his brother Peter from
his gilded exile. He persuaded the pope to annul the ecclesiastical censures with which Winchelsea
had sought to prevent Gaveston's return, and then recalled his friend on his own authority.
Gaveston at once quitted Ireland and was met at Chester by Edward. Together they attended a
parliament of magnates held in July at Stamford. There Edward announced that he accepted the
petitions of the estates and issued a statute limiting purveyance. But the real work of this
assembly was the ratification of the recall of the favourite, which was assured since Edward
had won over some of the chief earls to agree to it. Gloucester was easily moved to champion
his brother-in-law's cause. Lincoln reverted to his former friendship for the Gascon, and managed
both to overbear the hostility of Lancaster and to induce Earl Warenne, "who had never shown
a cheerful face to Peter since the Wallingford tournament," to become his friend. Warwick,
alone of the earls, was irreconcilable. But Edward had gained his point. It was even agreed
that the returned exile should regain his earldom of Cornwall.

The annalists moralise on the instability of the magnates; and the sudden revolution may perhaps
be set down as much to their incapacity as to the dexterity of the king. But Peter's second
period of power was even shorter than his first. He had learnt nothing from his misfortunes,
save perhaps increased contempt for his enemies. He was more insolent, greedy, and bitter in
speech than ever. Early in 1310 the barons were again preparing to renew their attacks. The
second storm burst in a parliament of magnates held at London in March, 1310. The barons came
to this parliament in military array, and Edward once more found himself at their mercy. The
conditions of 1258 exactly repeated themselves. Once more an armed baronial parliament made
itself the mouthpiece of the national discontent against a weak king, an incompetent administration,
and foreign favourites. The magnates were no longer contented with simply demanding the banishment
of Gaveston. They were ready with a constructive programme of reform, and they went back to
the policy of the Mad Parliament. As the king could not be trusted, the royal power must once
more be put into commission in the hands of a committee of magnates. So stiff were the barons
in their adhesion to the precedents of 1258, that they made no pretence of taking the commons
into partnership with them. To them the work of Edward I. had been done to no purpose. Baronial
assemblies and full parliaments of the estates were still equally competent to transact all
the business of the nation. It is vain to see in this ignoring of the commons any aristocratic
jealousy of the more popular element in the constitution. There can be no doubt but that any
full parliament would have co-operated with the barons as heartily in 1310 as it had done in
1309. It was simply that popular co-operation was regarded as unnecessary. As in 1258, the
magnates claimed to speak for the whole nation.

The barons drew up a statement of the "great perils and dangers" to which England was exposed
through the king's dependence on bad counsellors. The franchises of Holy Church were threatened;
the king was reduced to live by extortion; Scotland was lost; and the crown was "grievously
dismembered" in England and Ireland. "Wherefore, sire," the petition concludes, "your good
folk pray you humbly that, for the salvation of yourself and them and of the crown, you will
assent that these perils shall be avoided and redressed by ordinance of your baronage." Edward
at once surrendered at discretion, perhaps in the vain hope of saving Gaveston. On March 16
he issued a charter, which empowered the barons to elect certain persons to draw up ordinances
to reform the realm and the royal household. The powers of the committee were to last until
Michaelmas, 1311. A barren promise that the king's concession should not be counted a precedent
made Edward's submission seem a little less abject. Four days later the ordainers were appointed,
the method of their election being based upon the precedents of 1258.

Twenty-one lords ordainers represented in somewhat unequal proportions the three great ranks
of the magnates. At the head of the seven bishops was Winchelsea, while both Bishop Baldock
of London, the dismissed chancellor, and his successor, John Langton of Chichester, were included
among the rest. All the eight earls attending the parliament became ordainers. Side by side
with moderate men, such as Gloucester, Lincoln, and John of Brittany, Earl of Richmond, were
the extreme men of the opposition, Lancaster, Pembroke, Warwick, Hereford, the king's brother-in-law,
and Edmund Fitzalan, Earl of Arundel. Warenne and the insignificant Earl of Oxford do not seem
to have been present in parliament, and are therefore omitted. With these exceptions, and of
course that of the Earl of Cornwall, the whole of the earls were arrayed against the king.
The six barons, who completed the list of nominees, were either colourless in their policy
or dependent on the earls and their episcopal allies. The ordainers set to work at once. Two
days after their appointment, they issued six preliminary ordinances by which they resolved
that the place of their sitting should be London, that none of the ordainers should receive
gifts from the crown, that no royal grants should be valid without the consent of the majority,
that the customs should be paid directly into the exchequer, that the foreign merchants who
had lately farmed them should be arrested, and that the Great Charter should be firmly kept.
During the next eighteen months they remained hard at work.

Gaveston, conscious of his impending doom, betook himself to the north as early as February.
As soon as he could escape, Edward hurried northwards to join him. An expedition against the
Scots was then summoned for September. It was high time that something should be done. During
the three years that Edward had reigned, Robert Bruce had made alarming progress. One after
the other the Scottish magnates had joined his cause, and a few despairing partisans and some
scattered ill-garrisoned, ill-equipped strongholds alone upheld the English cause north of
the Tweed. But even then Edward did not wage war in earnest. His real motive for affecting
zeal for martial enterprise was his desire to escape from his taskmasters, and to keep Gaveston
out of harm's way. The earls gave him no encouragement. On the pretext that their services
were required in London at the meetings of the ordainers, the great majority of the higher
baronage took no personal part in the expedition. Gloucester was the only ordainer who was
present, and the only other earls in the host were Warenne and Gaveston himself. The chief
strength of Edwards army was a swarm of ill-disciplined Welsh and English infantry, more intent
on plunder than on victory. In September Edward advanced to Roxburgh and made his way as far
as Linlithgow. No enemy was to be found, for Bruce was not strong enough to risk a pitched
battle, even against Edward's army. He hid himself in the mountains and moors, and contented
himself with cutting off foraging parties, destroying stragglers, and breaking down the enemy's
communications. Within two months Edward discreetly retired to Berwick, and there passed many
months at the border town. Technically he was in Scotland; practically he might as well have
been in London for all the harm he was doing to Bruce. However, Gaveston showed more martial
zeal than his master. He led an expedition which penetrated as far as Perth, and reduced the
country between the Forth and the Grampians to Edward's obedience. Gloucester also pacified
the forest of Ettrick. To these two all the little honour of the campaign belonged.

The Earl of Lincoln governed England as regent during the king's absence. In February, 1311,
he died, and Gloucester abandoned the campaign to take up the regency. The death of the last
of Edward I.'s lay ministers was followed in March by that of another survivor of the old generation,
Bishop Bek of Durham. The old landmarks were quickly passing away, and the forces that still
made for moderation were sensibly diminished. Gilbert of Gloucester, alone of the younger generation,
still aspired to the position of a mediator. The most important result of Lincoln's death was
the unmuzzling of his son-in-law, Thomas of Lancaster. In his own right the lord of the three
earldoms of Lancaster, Leicester, and Derby, Thomas then received in addition his father-in-law's
two earldoms of Lincoln and Salisbury. The enormous estates and innumerable jurisdictions attached
to these five offices gave him a territorial position greater by far than that of any other
English lord. "I do not believe," writes the monk of Malmesbury, "that any duke or count of
the Roman empire could do as much with the revenues of his estates as the Earl of Lancaster."
Nor were Earl Thomas' personal connexions less magnificent than his feudal dignities. As a
grandson of Henry III., he was the first cousin of the king. Through his mother, Blanche of
Artois, Queen of Navarre and Countess of Champagne, he was the grandson of the valiant Robert
of Artois, who had fallen at Mansura, and the great-grandson of Louis VIII. of France. His
half-sister, Joan of Champagne, was the wife of Philip the Fair, so that the French king was
his brother-in-law as well as his cousin, and Isabella, Edward's consort, was his niece. Unluckily,
the personality of the great earl was not equal to his pedigree or his estates. Proud, hard
to work with, jealous, and irascible, he was essentially the leader of opposition, the grumbler,
and the frondeur. When the time came for a constructive policy, Thomas broke down almost as
signally as Edward himself. His ability was limited, his power of application small, and his
passions violent and ungovernable. Greedy, selfish, domineering, and narrow, he had few scruples
and no foresight, little patriotism, and no breadth of view. At this moment he had to play
a part which was within his powers. The simple continuance of the traditions of policy, which
he inherited with his pedigree and his estates; was all that was necessary. As the greatest
of the English earls, the head of a younger branch of the royal house, and the inheritor of
the estates and titles of Montfort and Ferrars, he was trebly bound to act as leader of the
baronial opposition, the champion of the charters, the enemy of kings, courtiers, favourites,
and foreigners. He was steadfast in his prejudices and hatreds, and the ordainers found in
him a leader who could at least save them from the reproach of inconstancy and the lack of
fixed purpose shown at the parliament of Stamford.

It was the first duty of Earl Thomas to perform homage and fealty for his new earldoms of Lincoln
and Salisbury. Attended by a hundred armed knights, he rode towards the border. Edward was
at Berwick, and Thomas declined to proffer his homage outside the kingdom. On Edward refusing
to cross the Tweed, Thomas declared that he would take forcible possession of his lands. Civil
war was only avoided by Edward giving way. The king met Thomas on English soil at Haggerston,
four miles from Berwick. There the earl performed homage, and exchanged the kiss of peace with
his king, but he would not even salute the upstart Earl of Cornwall, who injudiciously accompanied
Edward, and the king departed deeply indignant at this want of courtesy. Returning to Berwick,
Edward lingered there until the completion of the work of the ordainers made it necessary for
him to face parliament. Leaving Gaveston protected by the strong walls of Bamburgh, the king
quitted the border at the end of July, and met his parliament a month later in London. Though
the ordainers had been appointed by a baronial parliament, the three estates were summoned
to hear and ratify the results of their labours. Thirty-five more ordinances, covering a very
wide field, were then laid before them. Disorderly and disproportioned, like most medieval
legislation, they ranged from trivial personal questions and the details of administration
to the broadest schemes for the future. Many of them were simply efforts to get the recognised
law enforced. There were clauses forbidding alienation of domain, the abuses of purveyance,
the usurpations of the courts of the royal household, the enlargement of the forests, and the
employment of unlawful sources of revenue. Under the last head, the new custom, which Edward
I. had persuaded the foreign merchants to pay, was specifically abolished. Provisions of such
a character show that the king had made no effort to observe either the Great Charter or the
laws of Edward I. Even the recent statute of Stamford, and the six ordinances of the previous
year, had to be re-enacted. Similar restatements of sound principles were too common in the
fourteenth century to make the ordinances an epoch. The vital clauses were those providing
for the control of the king and for penalties against his favourites.

Under the first of these heads, the ordainers worked out to the uttermost consequences their
favourite distinction between the crown and the king. The crown was to be strengthened, but
the king was to be deprived of every shred of power. The great offices of state in England,
Ireland, and Gascony were to be filled up with the counsel and consent of the barons, a provision
which, if literally interpreted, meant that the barons intended to govern Gascony as well as
England. The king was not to go to war, raise an army, or leave the kingdom without the permission
of parliament. He was to "live of his own," however scanty a living that might be. Special
judges were to hear complaints against royal ministers and bailiffs. Parliaments were to meet
once or twice a year. It was a complete programme of limited monarchy. But there was no reference
to the commons and clergy. We are still in the atmosphere of the Provisions of Oxford, and
there is no Earl Simon to emphasise the fuller conception of national control.

To Edward and to the barons, the penal clauses were the very essence of the ordinances. The
twentieth ordinance declared that Peter of Gaveston, "as a public enemy of the king and kingdom,
be forthwith exiled, for all time and without hope of return," from all dominions subject to
the English king. He was to leave England before All Saints' day, and the port of Dover was
to be his place of embarkation. Other ordinances dealt with lesser offenders. Exile was once
more to be the doom of the Frescobaldi, and the other alien merchants who had acted as Edward's
financial agents; Gaveston's kinsfolk, followers and abettors incurred their master's fate.
All Gascons were to be sent to their own country, their allegiance to the crown in no wise
saving them from the hatred meted out to all aliens. Neither high nor low were spared: Henry
de Beaumont, the grandson of an Eastern emperor, and his sister, the lady Vesey, were to leave
the realm; John Charlton, the pushing Shropshire squire who was worming his way by court favour
into the estates of the degenerate descendants of the house of Gwenwynwyn, was, with the other
English partisans of the favourite, to be driven from the royal service.

Edward made a last desperate attempt to save Gaveston. He would agree to all the other ordinances,
if he were still allowed to keep his brother Peter in England and in possession of the earldom
of Cornwall. But the estates refused to yield the root of the whole matter. Threatened with
the prospect of a new battle of Lewes, if he remained obdurate, Edward bowed to his destiny.
The ordinances were published in every shire, and new ministers, chosen with the approval of
the estates, deprived the king of the government of the country.

Early in November, Gaveston sailed to Flanders, but within a few weeks Edward insisted upon
his return. Rumours spread that Gaveston was in England, hiding himself away in his former
castles of Wallingford and Tintagel, or in the king's castle of Windsor. The thin veil of mystery
was soon withdrawn. Early in 1312, Peter openly accompanied the king to York, where, on January
18, Edward issued a proclamation to the effect that Gaveston had been unlawfully exiled, that
he was back in England by the king's command, and prepared to answer to all charges against
him. A few weeks later, Edward restored him to his earldom and estates. King and favourite
still tarried in the north, preparing for the inevitable struggle. It was believed that they
intrigued with Robert Bruce for a refuge in Scotland. Bruce, according to the story, declined
to have anything to do with them. "If the King of England will not keep faith with his own
subjects," he is reported to have said, "how then will he keep faith with me?"

The ordainers looked upon Gaveston's return as a declaration of war. Winchelsea pronounced
him excommunicate, and five of the eight earls who sat among the ordainers, bound themselves
by oaths to maintain the ordinances and pursue the favourite to the death. These were Thomas
of Lancaster, Aymer of Pembroke, Humphrey of Hereford, Edmund of Arundel, and Guy of Warwick.
Gilbert of Gloucester declined to take part in the confederacy, but promised to accept whatever
the five earls might determine. Moreover, John, Earl Warenne, who had hitherto kept aloof from
the ordainers, at last threw in his lot with them, won over, it was believed, by the eloquence
of Archbishop Winchelsea. The ordainers then divided England into large districts, appointing
one of the baronial leaders to the charge of each. Gloucester himself undertook the government
of the south-east, while Robert Clifford and Henry Percy agreed to guard the march, to prevent
Gaveston escaping to the Scots. Pembroke and Warenne marched to the north to lay hands on the
favourite, and Lancaster himself followed them.

While the ordainers were acting, Edward and Gaveston were aimlessly wandering about in the
north. They failed to raise an army or to win the people to their side, and on the approach
of Lancaster, they fled before him from York to Newcastle. The earl followed quickly. On the
afternoon of Ascension day, May 4, Lancaster, Clifford, and Percy suddenly swooped down on
Newcastle. The king and his friend escaped with the utmost difficulty to Tynemouth, leaving
their luggage, jewels, horses, and other possessions to the victor. Next day they fled by sea
to Scarborough. The queen, left behind at Tynemouth, fell into her uncle Lancaster's power.

The royal castle of Scarborough, whose Norman keep and spacious wards occupy a rocky peninsula
surrounded, except on the town side, by the North Sea, had lately been transferred from the
custody of Henry Percy, one of the confederate barons, to that of Gaveston. There was no fitter
place wherein the favourite could stand at bay against his pursuers. Accordingly Edward left
Gaveston, after a tender parting, and betook himself to York. Lancaster thereupon occupied
a position midway between Scarborough and Knaresborough, while Pembroke, Warenne, and Henry
Percy laid siege to Scarborough. Gaveston soon found that he was unable to resist them. His
troops, scarcely adequate to man the extensive walls, were too many for the scanty store of
provisions which the castle contained. After less than a fortnight's siege, he persuaded the
two earls and Percy to allow him easy terms of surrender. The three baronial leaders pledged
themselves on the Gospels to protect Gaveston from all manner of evil until August 1. During
the interval parliament was to decide as to what was to be his future fate. If the terms agreed
upon by parliament were unsatisfactory to him, he was to return to Scarborough, which was still
to be garrisoned by his followers, with leave to purchase supplies.

Pembroke undertook the personal custody of the prisoner, and escorted him by slow stages from
Scarborough to the south, where he was to be retained in honourable custody at his own castle
of Wallingford. Three weeks after the surrender, the convoy reached Deddington, a small town
in Oxfordshire, a few miles south of Banbury. There Gaveston was lodged in the house of the
vicar of the parish, and told to take a few days' rest after the fatigues of the journey. Pembroke
himself did not remain at Deddington, but went on to Bampton in the Bush, where his countess
then was. Thereupon on June 10, at sunrise, the Earl of Warwick, the most rancorous of Peter's
enemies, occupied Deddington with a strong force. Bursting into the bedchamber of his victim,
Earl Guy exclaimed in a loud voice: "Arise, traitor, thou art taken". Peter was at once led
with every mark of indignity to Warwick castle. Thus the black dog of Arden showed that he
could bite.

Warwick was not personally pledged to Gaveston's safety, though, as one of the confederates,
he was clearly bound by their acts. His seizure of Peter was only warrantable by the, fear
that Pembroke, with his royalist leanings, was likely to play the extreme party false; but
in any case Warwick was as much obliged as Pembroke to observe the terms of the capitulation.
Neither Warwick nor his allies took this view of the matter. They rejoiced at the good fortune
which had remedied the disastrous capitulation of Scarborough, and resolved to put an end to
the favourite without delay. Lancaster was then at Kenilworth; Hereford, Arundel, and other
magnates were also present, and all agreed in praising Warwick's energy. On Monday morning,
June 19, the three earls rode the few miles from Kenilworth to Warwick, and Earl Guy handed
over Peter to them. They then escorted their captive to a place called Blacklow hill, about
two miles out of Warwick on the Kenilworth road, but situated in Lancaster's lands. The crowd
following the cavalcade was moved to tears when Peter, kneeling to Lancaster, cried in vain
for mercy from the "gentle earl". On reaching Blacklow hill, the three earls withdrew, though
remaining near enough to see what was going on. Then two Welshmen in Lancaster's service laid
hands upon the victim. One drove his sword through his body, the other cut off his head. The
corpse remained where it had fallen, but the head was brought to the earls as a sign that the
deed was done. After this the earls rode back to Kenilworth. Guy of Warwick remained all the
time in his castle. He had already taken his share in the cruel act of treachery. It was, however,
important that Lancaster should take the responsibility for the deed. Four cobblers of Warwick
piously bore the headless corpse within their town. But the grim earl sent it back, because
it was not found on his fee. At last some Oxford Dominicans took charge of the body and deposited
it temporarily in their convent, not daring to inter it in holy ground, as Gaveston had died
excommunicate.

The ostentatious violence of the confederate earls broke up their party. Aymer of Pembroke,
indignant at their breach of faith, regarded the whole transaction as a stain on his honour.
He besought Gloucester's intervention, but was only told that he should be more cautious in
his future negotiations. He harangued the clerks and burgesses of Oxford, but university and
town agreed that the matter was no business of theirs. Then in disgust he betook himself to
the king, whom he found still surrounded with the Beaumonts, Mauleys, and other friends of
Gaveston, against whom the ordinances had decreed banishment. Warenne, whose honour was only
less impeached than Pembroke's, also deserted the ordainers for the court. Edward bitterly
deplored the death of his friend. He gladly welcomed the deserters, and prepared to wreak vengeance
on the ordainers.

Edward plucked up courage to return to London, where in July he addressed the citizens, and
persuaded them to maintain the peace of the city against the barons. He next visited Dover,
and there he strengthened the fortifications of the castle, took oaths of fealty from the Cinque
Ports, and negotiated with the King of France. Thence he returned to London, hoping that the
precautions he had taken would secure his position in the parliament which he had summoned
to meet at Westminster. But the four earls still held the field, and answered the summons to
parliament by occupying Ware with a strong military force. A thousand men-at-arms were drawn
by Lancaster from his five earldoms, while the Welsh from Brecon, who followed the Earl of
Hereford, and the vigorous foresters of Arden, who mustered under the banner of Warwick, made
a formidable show. Yet at the last moment neither side was eager to begin hostilities. The
four earls' violence damaged their cause, and many who had no love of Gaveston, or desire to
avenge him, inclined to the king's party. Gilbert of Gloucester busied himself with mediating
between the two sides. At this juncture two papal envoys, sent to end the interminable outstanding
disputes with France, arrived in England, along with Louis, Count of Évreux, the queen's uncle.
Edward availed himself of the presence of French jurists in the count's train to obtain legal
opinion that the ordinances were invalid, as against natural equity and civil law. These technicalities
did little service to the king's cause, and better work was done when Louis and the papal envoys
joined with Gloucester in mediating between the opposing forces. At length moderate counsels
prevailed. Edward could only resist the four earls through the support of his new allies, and
Pembroke and Warenne were as little anxious to fight as Gloucester himself. They were quite
willing to make terms which seemed to the king treason to his friend's memory.

The negotiations were still proceeding when, on November 13, 1312, the birth of a son to Edward
and Isabella revived the almost dormant feeling of loyalty to the sovereign. The king ceased
to brood over the loss of his brother Peter, and became more willing to accept the inevitable.
He gave some pleasure to his subjects by refusing the suggestion of the queen's uncle that
the child should be called Louis, and christened him Edward after his own father. At last,
on December 22, terms of peace were agreed upon. The earls and barons concerned in Gaveston's
death were to appear before the king in Westminster Hall, and humbly beg his pardon and good-will.
In return for this the king agreed to remit all rancour caused by the death of the favourite.
Lancaster and Warwick, who took no personal part in the negotiations, sent in a long list of
objections to the details of the treaty. Nearly a year elapsed before the earls personally
acknowledged their fault. During that interval there was no improvement in the position of
affairs. Parliament granted no money; and Edward only met his daily expenses by loans, contracted
from every quarter, and by keeping tight hands on the confiscated estates of the Templars.
Both the king and the leading earls made every excuse to escape attending the ineffective parliaments
of that miserable time. Two short visits to France gave Edward a pretext for avoiding his subjects.
There were some hasty musterings of armed men on pretence of tournaments. But the king was
still formidable enough to make it desirable for the barons to carry out the treaty. Finally,
in October, 1313, Lancaster, Hereford, and Warwick made their public submission in Westminster
Hall. Pardons were at once issued to them and to over four hundred minor offenders. Feasts
of reconciliation were held, and it seemed as if the old feuds were at last ended. Gaveston's
corpse was removed from Oxford to Langley, in Hertfordshire, and buried in the church of a
new convent of Dominicans set up by Edward to pray for the favourite's soul.

Just before the end of the disputes Archbishop Winchelsea died in May, 1313. He left behind
him the reputation of a saint and a hero, and a movement was undertaken for his canonisation.
With all his faults, he was the greatest churchman of his time, and the most steadfast and
unselfish of ecclesiastical statesmen. Despite his palsy, he had shown wonderful activity since
his return. The brain and soul of the ordainers, he equally made it his business to uphold
extreme hierarchical privilege. Bitterly as he hated Walter Langton, he was indignant that
a bishop should be imprisoned and despoiled by the lay power, and took up his cause with such
energy that he effected his liberation, only to find that Langton made peace with the king
and turned his back on the ordainers. The after-swell of the storms, excited by the petition
of Lincoln and the statute of Carlisle, still continued troublous during Winchelsea's later
years. The pope complained of the violated privileges of the Church and of the accumulated
arrears of King John's tribute; and Winchelsea was anxious to promote the papal cause. But
the barons in Edward's early parliaments still used the bold language of the magnates of 1301,
and the letter of 1309, drawn up by the parliament of Stamford, is no unworthy pendant of the
Lincoln letter. As time went on, the disorders of the government and the weakness of the king
surrendered everything to the pope. It was soon as it had been in the days of Henry III., when
pope and king combined to despoil the English Church.

The suppression of the order of the Temple shows how absolutely England was forced to follow
in the wake of the papacy and the King of France. There was no spontaneous movement against
the society as in France; there was not even the fierce malice and insatiable greed which could
find their only satisfaction in the ruin of the brethren; and there is not much evidence that
the Templars were unpopular. The whole attack was the result of commands given from without.
It was at the repeated request of Philip of France and Clement V. that Edward reluctantly ordered
the apprehension of all the Templars within England, Scotland, and Ireland on January 8, 1308.
Their property was taken into the king's hands, and their persons were confined in the royal
prisons under the custody of the sheriffs. For their trial, Clement appointed a mixed commission
including Winchelsea, Archbishop Greenfield of York, several English bishops, one French bishop,
and certain papal inquisitors specially assigned for the purpose, the chief of whom were the
Abbot of Lagny and Sicard de Lavaur, Canon of Narbonne, who came to England in 1309. At last
the victims were collected at London and York, where the trials were to be conducted for the
southern and northern provinces. There was much hesitation among the English bishops. The foes
of the Templars lamented the prelates' lack of zeal and their scruples in collecting evidence,
and suggested that the torture, which had so freely been used in France, would soon extract
confessions. But the northern bishops declared that torture was unknown in England, and asked,
if it were to be adopted, whether it was to be applied by clerks or laymen, and whether torturers
should be imported from beyond sea. In the end, torture was used, but not to any great extent.

A great mass of depositions, mostly vague and worthless, or derived from the suspicious confessions
of apostates and weaklings, was gathered together, and in 1311 laid before provincial councils,
but neither province came to any fixed decision. "Inasmuch," says Hemingburgh, "as the Templars
were not found altogether guilty or altogether innocent, they referred the dubious matter to
the pope." They sent the evidence they had collected to swell the mass of testimony from all
Christendom, which was laid before the council of Vienne. When the pope suppressed the order
in April, 1312, and transferred its lands to the Knights of St. John, the papal decrees were
quietly carried out in England. One or two Templars died in prison, but none were executed;
and the majority were dismissed with pensions or secluded in monasteries. Edward and his nobles
took good care to make a large profit out of the transaction. The resources of the Temple alone
kept the king from destitution during the period between the death of Gaveston and his reconciliation
with the earls. Many barons laid violent hands on estates belonging to the order, and long
held on to them despite papal expostulation. The Hospitallers found that the lands of their
rivals came to them so slowly, and encumbered with so many charges, that their new property
became burdensome rather than helpful to their society. Thus it was that they never made any
use of the New Temple in London, and, before long, let it out to the common-lawyers. In the
fall of the Templars, the pope and the Church set the first great example of the suppression
of a religious order to kings, who before long bettered the precedent given them. The sordid
story is mainly important to our history as an example of the completeness of the influence
of the papal autocracy, and of the submissiveness of clergy and laity to its behests. It was
a lurid commentary on the practical working of the ecclesiastical system that the business
of condemning an innocent order first brought into England the papal inquisitor and the use
of torture. Yet the whole process was but so pale a reflection of the horrors wrought in France
that the conclusion arises that England owed more to the weakness of Edward II than France
to the strength of Philip IV.

Winchelsea's death removed a real check on Edward, especially as the king was on such good
terms with the papacy that he had little difficulty in obtaining a successor amenable to his
will. Undeterred by Clement's bull reserving to himself the appointment, the monks of Christ
Church at once proceeded to elect Thomas of Cobham, a theologian and a canonist of distinction,
a man of high birth, great sanctity, and unblemished character, and in every way worthy of
the primacy. But his merits did not weigh for a moment with Clement against the wishes of the
king. He rejected Cobham and conferred the primacy on Edwards favourite, Walter Reynolds, who
had already obtained the bishopric of Worcester through the king's influence. A good deal of
money, it was believed, found its way to the coffers of the curia; and the indignation of the
English Church found voice in the impassioned protests of the chroniclers. "Lady Money rules
everything in the pope's court," lamented the monk of Malmesbury. "For eight years Pope Clement
has ruled the Universal Church: but what good he has done escapes memory. England, alone of
all countries, feels the burden of papal domination. Out of the fulness of his power, the pope
presumes to do many things, and neither prince nor people dare contradict him. He reserves
all the fat benefices for himself, and excommunicates all who resist him: his legates come
and spoil the land: those armed with his bulls come and demand prebends. He has given all the
deaneries to foreigners, and cut down the number of resident canons. Why does the pope exercise
greater power over the clergy than the emperor over the laity? Lord Jesus! either take away
the pope from our midst or lessen the power which he presumes to have over the people." Such
lamentations bore no fruit, and the simoniacal nomination of Reynolds was but the first of
a series of appointments which robbed the episcopate of dignity and moral worth.

While Church and State in England were thus distressed, the cause of Robert Bruce was making
steady progress in Scotland. It is some measure of the difficulties against which Bruce had
to contend that, after six years, he was still by no means master of all that land. But least
of all among the causes which retarded his advance can be placed the armed forces of England.
During six years Edward II.'s one personal expedition had been a complete failure. A more formidable
obstacle in Bruce's way was the stubborn resistance offered to him by the valour and skill
of the small but highly trained garrisons which the wisdom of Edward I. had established in
the fortresses of southern and central Scotland. Each castle took a long time to subdue, and
demanded engineering resources and a persistency of effort, which were difficult to obtain
from a popular army. The garrisons co-operated with the Scottish nobles who still adhered to
Edward through jealousy of the upstart Bruces and love of feudal independence, rather than
by reason of any sympathy with the English cause. Additional obstacles to Robert's progress
were the hostility of the Church, to which he was still the excommunicated murderer of Comyn;
the captivity of so many Scottish prelates and barons in England; the efforts of the pope and
the King of France to bring about suspensions of hostilities, and the grievous famines which
desolated Scotland no less than southern Britain. But during these years the King of Scots
gradually overcame these difficulties. His hardest fighting in the field was with rival Scots
rather than with the English intruders. In 1308 he defeated the Comyns of Buchan, and established
himself on the ruins of that house in the north-east. In the same year his brother, Edward
Bruce, conquered Galloway, where the Balliol tradition long prevented the domination of the
rival family.

Secure from retaliation so long as domestic troubles lasted, the Scots devastated the northern
counties of England, whose inhabitants were forced to purchase relief from further attacks
by paying large sums of money to the invaders. Formal truces were more than once made, but
they were ill observed, and each violation of an armistice involved some loss to Edward and
some gain to Robert. Meanwhile the garrisons were carefully isolated, and one by one signalled
out for attack. In 1312 Berwick itself was only saved from surprise by the opportune barking
of a dog. In January, 1313, Perth was captured by assault. Next day Robert slew the leading
native burgesses who had adhered to the English, while he permitted the English inhabitants
to return freely to their own country. The whole town was destroyed, since walled towns, like
castles, had given the English their chief hold upon the country.

Such was the state of Scotland when the reconciliation between Edward and the earls restored
England to the appearance of unity. As if conscious that no time was to be lost in strengthening
his position, Bruce redoubled his efforts to make himself master of the fortresses which still
remained in the enemy's hands. Regardless of the rigour of the season, he set actively to work
in the early weeks of 1314, and remarkable success attended his efforts. In February, the border
stronghold of Roxburgh was taken by a night attack. "And all that fair castle, like the other
castles which he had acquired, they pulled down to the ground, lest the English should afterwards
by holding the castle bear rule over the land."[1] In March, Edinburgh castle was secured by
some Scots who climbed up the precipitous northern face of the castle rock, overpowered the
garrison, and opened the gates to their comrades outside. Flushed with this great success,
Bruce began the siege of Stirling, the only important English garrison then held by the English
in the heart of Scotland. He pressed the besieged so hard that they agreed to surrender to
the enemy, if they were not relieved before Midsummer day, the feast of St. John the Baptist.
While Robert was watching Stirling, his brother Edward devastated the country round Carlisle,
lording it for three days at the bishop's castle of Rose, and levying heavy blackmail on the
men of Cumberland.

    [1] Lanercost Chronicle, p. 223.

If Stirling were lost, all Scotland would be at Bruce's mercy. Even Edward was stirred by the
disgrace involved in the utter abandonment of his father's conquest; and from March onwards
he began to make spasmodic efforts to collect men and ships to enable him to advance to the
relief of the beleaguered garrison. At first it seemed sufficient to raise the feudal levies
and a small infantry force from the northern shires, but as time went on the necessity of meeting
the Scottish pikemen by corresponding levies of foot soldiers became evident, and over 20,000
infantry were summoned from the northern counties and Wales.[1] But the notice given was far
too short, and June was well advanced before anything was ready.

    [1] For the numbers at Bannockburn, see Foedera, ii., 248,
    and Round, Commune of London, pp. 289-301.

Even the Scottish peril could not quicken the sluggish patriotism of the ordainers. Four earls,
Lancaster, Warenne, Warwick, and Arundel, answered Edward's summons by reminding him that the
ordinances prescribed that war should only be undertaken with the approval of parliament, and
by declining to follow him to a campaign undertaken on his own responsibility. They would send
quotas, but begged to be excused from personal attendance. Yet even without them, a gallant
array slowly gathered together at Berwick, and one at least of the opposition earls, Humphrey
of Hereford, was there, with Gilbert of Gloucester and Aymer of Pembroke and 2,000 men-at-arms.
An enormous baggage train enabled the knights and barons to appear in the field in great magnificence,
though it destroyed the mobility of the force. "The multitude of waggons," wrote the monk of
Malmesbury, "if they had been extended in a single line would have occupied the space of twenty
leagues." The splendour and number of the army inspired the king and his friends with the utmost
confidence. Though the host started from Berwick less than a week before the appointed day,
the king moved, says the Malmesbury monk, not as if he were about to lead an army to battle,
but rather as if he were going on a pilgrimage to Compostella. "There was but short delay for
sleep, and a shorter delay for taking food. Hence horses, horsemen, and infantry were worn
out with fatigue and hunger." There was no order or method in the proceedings of the host.
The presence of the king meant that there was no effective general, and Hereford and Gloucester
quarrelled for the second place.

It was not until Sunday, June 23, that Edward at last took up his quarters a few miles south
of Stirling, with a worn-out and dispirited army. Yet, if Stirling were to be saved, immediate
action was necessary. Gloucester and Hereford made a vigorous but unsuccessful effort to penetrate
at once into the castle, and Bruce came down just in time to throw himself between them and
the walls. Henry Bohun, who had forced his way forward at the head of a force of Welsh infantry,
was slain, and his troops dispersed. Gloucester was unhorsed, and thereupon the English retreated
to their camp. Fearing an attack under cover of darkness, they had little sleep that night,
and many of the watchers consoled themselves with revelry and drunkenness. When St. John's
day dawned, they were too weary to fight effectively. Bruce advanced from the woods and stationed
his troops on the low ridge bounding the northern slope of the little brook, called the Bannockburn,
which runs about two miles south of Stirling on its course towards the Forth. Of the three
divisions, or battles, into which the Scots were divided, two stood on the same front, side
by side, while King Robert commanded the rear battle, which was to serve as a reserve. He marshalled
his forces much in the same way that Wallace had adopted at Falkirk. There was the same close
array of infantry, protected by a wall of shields and a thick hedge of pikes. Each man wore
light but adequate armour, and, besides the pike, bore an axe at his side for work at close
quarters. Pits were dug before the Scots lines, and covered over with hurdles so light that
they would not bear the weight of a mail-clad warrior and his horse. Save for a small cavalry
force kept in reserve in the rear, the men-at-arms were ordered to dismount and take their
place in the dense array, lest, like their comrades at Falkirk, they should ride off in alarm
when they saw the preponderance of the enemy's horse. The Scots were less numerous than the
English, but they were an army and not a mob; their commander was a man of rare military insight,
and their tactics were those which, twelve years before, had defeated the chivalry of France
at Courtrai.

The English had feared that the Scots would not fight a pitched battle, and were astonished
to see them at daybreak prepared to receive an attack. Their contempt for their enemy made
them eager to accept the challenge, but Gloucester, who, though only twenty-three, had more
of the soldier's eye than most of the magnates, urged Edward to postpone the encounter for
a day, that the army might recover from its fatigue, and the clergy advised delay out of respect
to St. John the Baptist. Unmoved by prudence or piety, Edward denounced his nephew as a coward,
and ordered an immediate advance.

The English, forgetting the lessons of the Welsh wars, sent on the archers in front of the
cavalry. Bruce, seeing that their missiles were playing havoc on his dense ranks, directed
his small cavalry force to charge the archers on their left flank. The unsupported bowmen at
once fell back in confusion, leaving the cavalry to do its work. Meanwhile the English men-at-arms
were advancing in three "battles," the first of which then came into action. Many of the English
fell into the pits prepared for them, and the Scottish shields and pikes broke the attack of
those who evaded these obstacles. Gloucester fought with rare gallantry, but was badly seconded
by his followers. At last his horse was slain under him, and he was knocked down and killed.
The troop which he led fled panic-stricken from the field. The Scots then advanced with such
vigour that the English never recovered from the disorder into which their first disaster had
thrown them. While these things were going on, the second and third English "battles" had been
making feeble efforts to take their part in the fight. But the first line cut them off from
direct access to the foe, and the archers of the second battle did more harm to their friends
than to their enemies by shooting wildly, straight in front of them. There was no single directing
force, nor, after Gloucester's fall, even one conspicuous leader who would set an example of
blind valour. Hundreds of English knights, who had not drawn their swords, were soon fleeing
in terror before the enemy. Edward, who had taken up his station in the rear battle, rode off
the field and never dismounted until he reached Dunbar, whence he fled by sea to Berwick.

Abandoned by their leaders, the English retreated as best they could. Many of their best knights
lay dead on the field, and more were drowned in the Forth or Bannock, or swallowed up in the
bogs, than were slain in the fight. The Scots, whose losses were slight, showed a prudent tendency
to capture rather than slay the knights and barons, in order that they might hold them up to
ransom, and though many desisted from the pursuit to plunder the baggage train, those who followed
the English fugitives reaped an abundant harvest of captives. Hereford was chased into Bothwell
castle, which was still held for the English. But next day the Scottish official who commanded
there for Edward opened the gates to Bruce, and the earl became a prisoner. Pembroke escaped
with difficulty on foot, along with a contingent of Welsh infantry. The mighty English army
had ceased to exist; and with the surrender of Stirling, next day, Bruce's career attained
its culminating point. His long years of trial were at last over, and the clever adventurer
could henceforth enjoy in security the crown which he had so gallantly won.

The military results of Bannockburn were of extreme importance. The ablest of contemporary
annalists aptly compared Bruce's victory to the battle of Courtrai. An even nearer analogy
was the fight at Morgarten where, within two years, the pikemen of the Forest Cantons were
to scatter the chivalry of the Hapsburgers as effectively as the Flemings won the day at Courtrai
or the Scots at Bannockburn. The English had forgotten the military lessons of Edward I., as
completely as they had forgotten his political lessons, and their reliance on the obsolete
and unsupported cavalry charge was their undoing. Bruce, on the other hand, had improved upon
the teaching of Wallace and Edward I. His use of his men-at-arms on foot anticipates the English
tactics of the Hundred Years' War. The presence of these heavily armed troopers in his ranks
gave him a strength in defence, and an impetuosity in attack, which made it a simple matter
to break up the undisciplined squadrons opposed to him. Bannockburn rang the death-knell of
the tactics which since Hastings had been regarded as the perfection of military art. The political
lessons of the victory were of not less importance. It is almost too much to say that Bannockburn
won for Scotland its independence, for Scottish independence had already been vindicated. But
the easy victory brought home to men's minds the full measure of the Scottish triumph. It was
already clear that so long as Edward lived, England would never make the continued effort which,
as Edward I.'s wars both in Wales and Scotland had shown, could alone systematically conquer
a nation. Bruce's difficulties were not so much with the English as with the Scots. It was
no small task to unite the English of the Lothians, the Welsh of the south-west, the Norsemen
of the extreme north, and the Celts of the hills into a single Scottish nation. He had against
him the separatist local feeling which Scottish history and ethnology made inevitable, and
it took time for him to obtain that prestige, which should hedge a king, and raise him above
the crowd of feudal earls and clan chieftains, who thought themselves as good as the sometime
Earl of Carrick. Such dignity and distinction Bannockburn supplied, and such measure of national
unity and strong monarchical authority as Scotland ever enjoyed, came from the triumph of him
who became, even more than Wallace, the hero of the new nation. For the next few years the
Scots took the aggressive. They induced the French kings to renew the alliance which Philip
IV. had made with them in the early years of the contest. They obtained papal recognition for
their king and the withdrawal of the ban of the Church on Comyn's murderer; they plundered
northern England from end to end, and broke down Anglo-Norman rule in Ireland; they plotted
for the resurrection of the Welsh principality; and, worse than all, they made common cause
with the baronial opposition. Hence it followed that the political results of the victory were
as important to England as they were to Scotland itself. The troubled history of the next eight
years reveals in detail the effects of Bannockburn on England. Edward's defeat threw him into
the power of the ordainers. The ordainers, when called upon to govern, showed themselves as
incapable as ever Edward or his favourites had been. The results were misrule, aristocratic
faction, popular distress, and mob violence. Ineffective as are the first seven years of the
reign of Edward of Carnarvon, the eight years which followed Bruce's victory plunged England
deeper into the pit of degradation, from which neither the king nor the king's foes were strong,
wise, or honest enough to release her.

CHAPTER XIII.

LANCASTER, PEMBROKE, AND THE DESPENSERS.

Bannockburn was almost welcomed by the ordainers, for it afforded new opportunities of humiliating
the defeated king. While Edward tarried at Berwick, Lancaster was in his castle of Pontefract
with a force far larger than his cousin's. Loudly declaring that the true cause of the disaster
was Edward's neglect to carry out the ordinances, he announced his intention of immediately
enforcing their observance. At a parliament at York, in September, Edward delivered himself
altogether into Thomas's hands, ordering the immediate execution of the ordinances, and replacing
his ministers and sheriffs by nominees of the ordainers. The only boon that he obtained was
that the earls postponed the removal from court of Hugh Despenser and Henry Beaumont, the two
faithful friends who had guarded him in his flight from Bannockburn. Despenser, however, thought
it prudent to avoid his enemies by going into hiding. Edward's submission did not help him
against the Scots. The earls resolved that the question of an expedition was to be postponed
until the next parliament, on the ground that it was imprudent to take action until Hereford
and the other captives had been released. It was a sorry excuse, for King Robert and his brother
were devastating the northern counties with fire and sword, and it gave new ground to the suspicion
of an understanding between the Scottish king and the ordainers. But the victor of Bannockburn
showed surprising moderation. He suffered the bodies of Gloucester and the slain barons to
be buried among their ancestors, and released Gloucester's father-in-law, Monthermer, without
ransom, declaring that the thing in the world which he most desired was to live in peace with
the English. He welcomed an exchange of prisoners, by which his wife, Elizabeth de Burgh, his
sister, his daughter, and the Bishop of Glasgow were restored to Scotland. The release of Hereford
soon added to the king's troubles.

In January, 1315, Edward's humiliation was completed at a London parliament. Hugh Despenser
and Walter Langton were removed from the council. The "superfluous members" of the royal household,
denounced as "excessively burdensome to the king and the land," were dismissed, and drastic
ordinances were drawn up for the regulation of the diminished following still allowed to the
king. Edward was put on an allowance of £10 a day, and the administration of his revenues taken
out of his hands. The grant made was accompanied by the condition that its spending should
be entirely in the hands of the barons, and the estates arranged after their own fashion for
the new Scottish campaign. When summer came, Lancaster insisted on taking the command himself,
and thus gave a new grievance to Pembroke, who had already been appointed general. Lancaster
was henceforth the indispensable man. When parliament met at Lincoln, in January, 1316, the
few magnates who attended would transact no business until his arrival. On his tardy appearance
in the last days of the session, it was resolved "that the lord king should do nothing grave
or arduous without the advice of the council, and that the Earl of Lancaster should hold the
chief place in the council". It was only after some hesitation that the earl accepted this
position. Once more the king was forced to confirm the ordinances. Liberal grants were made
by the estates, and every rural township was called upon to furnish and pay a foot soldier
to fight the Scots.

The commander of the army and the chief counsellor of the king, Lancaster, was in a stronger
position than any subject since the days of Simon of Montfort. He could afford to despise aristocratic
jealousy and royal malignity. To the commons he was the good earl, who was standing up for
the rights of the people. He was the darling of the clergy, who looked upon him as the pillar
of orthodoxy, the disciple of Winchelsea, and the upholder of the rights of Holy Church. The
warlike and energetic barons of the north were his sworn followers, and, apart from his hold
upon public opinion, he could always fall back on the resources of his five earldoms. But events
were soon to show that the successful leader of opposition was absolutely incapable of carrying
out a constructive policy. He had no ideals, no principles, no feeling of the importance of
administrative efficiency, no sense of responsibility, no power of controlling his followers.
He never understood that his business was no longer to oppose but to act. The clear-headed
monk of Malmesbury paints the disastrous results of his inaction: "Whatsoever pleased the king,
the earl's servants strove to overthrow; and whatever pleased the earl, was declared by the
king's servants to be treasonable; and so, at the suggestion of the evil one, the households
of earl and king put themselves in the way and would not allow their masters, by whom the land
should have been defended, to be of one accord". Even the implied understanding with the King
of Scots was not abandoned by the man on whom the responsibility rested of defeating him. When
Bruce devastated the north of England he still spared the lands of the king's "chief counsellor,"
as of old he had spared the lands of the opposition leader. When, in 1316, Lancaster mustered
his forces at Newcastle against the Scots, Edward repaid him for his inaction in 1314 by declining
to accompany him over the border. "Thereupon," wrote the border annalist,[1] "the earl at once
went back; for neither trusted the other." Edward, who forgot and forgave nothing, secretly
negotiated with the pope for absolution from his oath to the ordinances. He gradually built
up a court party, and soon restored Hugh Despenser to his position in the household. As might
be expected in such circumstances no effective resistance was made to the Scots.

    [1] Lanercost Chronicle, p. 233.

It was a time of severe distress in England. In 1315 a rainy summer ruined the harvest. Great
floods swept away the hay from the fields, and drowned the sheep and cattle. In 1316 famine
raged, especially in the north. For a hundred years, we are told, such scarcity of corn had
not been known. A bushel of wheat was sold at London for forty pence, and the Northumbrians
were driven to feed on dogs, horses, and other unwonted food. Pestilence followed in the train
of famine. It was in vain that parliament passed laws, limiting the repasts of the barons'
households to two courses of meat, and fixing the price of the chief sorts of victuals. The
only result was that dealers refused to bring their produce to market. Then the legislation,
passed in a panic, was repealed in a panic. "It is better," said a chronicler, "to buy things
at a high rate than not to be able to buy them at all."

Private wars raged from end to end of south Britain. On the upper Severn, Griffith of Welshpool,
the younger son of Griffith ap Gwenwynwyn, laid regular siege to Powys castle, the stronghold
of John Charlton, his niece's husband and his rival for the lordship of upper Powys. As Charlton
was a courtier, Griffith attached himself to the ordainers. After Bannockburn, the captivity
of Hereford, the lord of Brecon, and the death without heirs of Gloucester, the lord of Glamorgan,
removed the strongest restraints on the men of south Wales. The royal warden of Glamorgan,
Payne of Turberville, displaced Gloucester's old officers. One of the sufferers was Llewelyn
Bren, "a great and powerful Welshman in those parts," who had held high office under Earl Gilbert.
In 1315 Llewelyn, after seeking justice in vain at the king's court, rose in revolt against
Turberville. He gathered the Welshmen on the hills, burst upon Caerphilly, while the constable
was holding a court outside the castle, took the outer ward by surprise and burnt it to ashes.
There was fear lest this revolt should be the starting-point of a general Welsh rising. Llewelyn's
hill strongholds threatened Brecon on the north and the vale of Glamorgan on the south; and
Hereford, then released from his Scottish captivity, was entrusted with the suppression of
the revolt. Before long all the lords of the march joined Hereford in stamping out the movement.
Among them were the two Roger Mortimers, the Montagues and the Giffords, and Henry of Lancaster,
Earl Thomas's brother, and lord in his own right of Monmouth and Kidwelly. Overwhelmed by such
mighty opponents, Llewelyn surrendered to Hereford, hoping thus to save his followers.

Lancaster himself suffered from the spirit of anarchy that was abroad. His own Lancashire vassals
rose against his authority, under Adam Banaster, a former member of his household. Adam belonged
to an important Lancashire family, which had long stood in close relations to Wales, and had
committed a homicide for which he despaired of pardon. He now posed as the champion of the
king against the earl, believing that anything that caused trouble to Thomas would give no
small delight at court. Lancaster showed more energy in upholding his own rights than in maintaining
the honour of England. He raised such an overwhelming force that Banaster, unable to hold the
field against him, shut himself up in his house. His refuge was stormed and his head brought
to Earl Thomas as a trophy of victory. While Banaster was raiding Lancashire and Llewelyn south
Wales, the Scots were devastating the country as far south as Furness, and Edward Bruce, King
Robert's brother, was conquering Ireland. There was little wonder that Edward Bruce hoped to
cross over to Wales when he had done his work in Ireland, or that the Welsh, buoyed up, as
in the last generation, by the prophesies of Merlin, believed that the time was come when they
would expel the Saxons, and win back the empire of Britain.

Of much longer duration than the wars of Llewelyn Bren and Adam Banaster, were the formidable
disturbances which raged for many years at Bristol. Fourteen Bristol magnates had long a preponderating
influence in the government of the town. The commons bitterly resented their superiority and
declared that every burgess should enjoy equal rights. A royal inquiry was ordered, but the
judges, bribed, as was believed, by the fourteen, gave a decision which was unacceptable to
the commons. Lord Badlesmere, warden of the castle, sided with the oligarchs, and thus the
whole authority of the state was brought to bear against the popular party. But it was an easy
matter to resist the government of Edward II. The commons took arms and a riot broke out in
court. Twenty men were killed in the disturbances, and the judges fled for their lives. Eighty
burgesses were proved by inquest at Gloucester to have been the ringleaders. As they refused
to appear to answer the charges, they were outlawed. Indignation at Bristol then rose to such
a height that the fourteen fled in their turn, and for more than two years Bristol succeeded
in holding out against the royal mandate. At last, in 1316, the town was regularly besieged
by the Earl of Pembroke. The castle was not within the burgesses' power, and its petrariae,
breaking down the walls and houses of the borough, compelled the townsmen to surrender. A few
of the chief rebels were punished, but a pardon was issued to the mass of the burgesses.

More dangerous than any of these troubles was the attack made by Edward Bruce on the English
power in Ireland. That power had been on the wane during the last two generations. Edward I.
had formed schemes for the better administration of the country, but little had come of them.
The English government in Dublin gradually lost such control as it had possessed over the remoter
parts of the island. The shire organisation, set up in an earlier generation, became little
more than nominal. The constitutional movement of the thirteenth century extended to the island,
and the Irish parliament, then growing up out of the old council, reflected in a blurred fashion
the organisation of the English parliament of the three estates. But royal lieutenants and
councils, shires and sheriffs, parliaments and justices had only the most superficial influence
on Irish life. Real authority was divided between the Norman lords of the plain and the Celtic
chieftains of the hills. Each feudal lord hated his fellows, and bitter as were the feuds of
Fitzgeralds and Burghs, they were mild as compared with the rancorous hereditary factions which
divided the native septs from each other. These divisions alone made it possible for the king's
officers to keep up some semblance of royal rule. If they were seldom obeyed, the divisions
in the enemies' camps prevented any chance of their being overthrown. Thus the Irish went on
living a rude, turbulent life of perpetual purposeless war and bloodshed. Ireland was a wilder,
larger, more remote Welsh march, and the resemblance was heightened by the fact that many of
the Anglo-Norman principalities were in the hands of great English or marcher families, and
that the Irish foot-soldier played only a less important part than the Welsh archer and pikeman
among the light-armed soldiers of the English crown.

The easiest way to keep up a show of English government was to form an alliance between the
crown and some of the baronial houses. Richard de Burgh, Earl of Ulster, the most powerful
of the feudal lords of Ireland, was the only one who at that period bore the title of earl.
He had long been interested in general English affairs, and his kinswomen had intermarried
into great British houses. One of his daughters married Robert Bruce when he was Earl of Carrick,
and another was more recently wedded to Earl Gilbert of Gloucester. Despite the Bruce connexion,
the Earl of Ulster was still trusted by the English party, and the king gave him the command
of an Irish army which he had intended to send against Scotland in 1314. Richard was too busy
fighting the Ulster clans of O'Donnell and O'Neil, and too jealous of the Fitzgeralds, his
feudal rivals, to throw his heart into the hopeless task of gathering together the two nations
and many clans of Ireland into a single host. The death of Earl Gilbert at Bannockburn broke
his nearest tie with England, and the release of Elizabeth Bruce in exchange for Hereford gave
his daughter the actual enjoyment of the throne of Scotland. His natural instincts as an Irishman
and as a baron were to restrain the power of his overlord. When the news of Bruce's victory
produced a great stir among the Irish clans, he stood aside and let events take their course.

Though the Gael of the Scottish Highlands played little part at Bannockburn, the Irish rejoiced
at the Scots' success as that of their kinsmen. "The Kings of the Scots," said the Irish Celts,
"derive their origin from our land. They speak our tongue and have our laws and customs." However
little true this was in fact, it was a good excuse for some of the Irish clans to offer the
throne of Ireland to the King of Scots. Robert rejected the proposal for himself, but was willing
to give his able and adventurous brother Edward the chance of winning another crown for his
house. Edward, "who thought that Scotland was too little for his brother and himself," cheerfully
fell in with the scheme. On May 25, 1315, he landed near Carrickfergus and received a rapturous
welcome from the O'Neils, the greatest of the septs of the north-east. Before long all Celtic
Ulster flocked to his banners, and Edmund Butler, then justice of Ireland, strove with little
success to make head against the Scottish invasion. The completeness of Bruce's union with
the native Irish gave him his best chance of attaining his object. Up to this point the attitude
of the Earl of Ulster had been most undecided. He at last threw in his lot with the justiciar.
When parties began to shape themselves it was clear that "all the Irish of Ireland" were in
league with Bruce. The danger was that "a great part of the great lords and lesser English
folk" also joined the invader. Conspicuous among these were the Lacys of Meath.

Edward Bruce showed energy and vigour. He made his way southwards, and in September won a victory
over the forces of the Earl of Ulster and the justiciar at Dundalk, then in the south of Ulster.
After this he pushed into Meath and Leinster and was joined by the O'Tooles and the other clans
of the Wicklow mountains, while the adhesion of Phelim O'Connor, King of Connaught, brought
the whole of the Celtic west into his alliance. The barons, however, took the alarm. During
the winter Butler contracted friendship with many of the Norman colonists. From that time the
struggle assumed the character of a war between Celtic Ireland and feudal Ireland, the native
clansmen and the Anglo-Norman settlers. Thus, though Bruce and his wild allies found it easy
to make themselves masters of the open country, all the castles and towns were closed to them
and could only be won by long-continued efforts. Before long, Butler drove them to the hills.
Ere the winter was over, Edward found it prudent to retire to Ulster.

During 1316 the struggle raged unceasingly. Bruce was crowned King of Ireland, the O'Neil,
it was said, having abdicated his rights in his favour. But the summer saw the utter defeat
of the O'Connors by the justiciar at the bloody battle of Athenry, where King Phelim and the
noblest of his sept perished. A little later the King of Scots came to the help of his brother.
With his aid, Edward was able to reduce Carrickfergus, which had hitherto defied his efforts.
Then the brothers led their forces from one end of Ireland to the other. Dublin prepared for
a siege by burning its suburbs and devastating the country around. But though the two Bruces
penetrated as far as Limerick, they did not capture a single castle or a walled town. They
lost so many men during their winter campaign, that they were forced in the spring to retire
to Ulster. The hopeless disunion of both parties in Ireland seemed likely to prolong the struggle
indefinitely. The men of Dublin and the Earl of Ulster were at feud with each other, and the
citizens captured the earl and shut him up in Dublin castle. However little the earl could
be trusted, this was a step likely to throw all Ulster into the arms of the Bruces. But a stronger
justice of Ireland then superseded Edmund Butler. Roger Mortimer of Wigmore, the mightiest
baron of the Welsh march, and a man of real ability, rare energy, extreme ruthlessness, and
savage cruelty, crossed over from Haverfordwest early in 1317 at the head of a large force
of marcher knights and men-at-arms, versed from their youth up in the traditions of Celtic
warfare. Mortimer set himself to work to break up the ill-assorted coalition that supported
Bruce. He released the Earl of Ulster from his Dublin prison; he procured the banishment of
the heads of the house of Lacy; he won over some of the Irish septs to his side; he stimulated
the civil war which had devastated Connaught since the fall of the O'Connors. Edward Bruce
was once more confined to Ulster, where he still struggled on bravely. In the autumn of 1318
he led a foray southwards, and met his fate in a skirmish near Dundalk on October 14, when
his force was scattered in confusion by John of Bermingham, one of the neighbouring lords.
The four quarters of the luckless King of Ireland were exposed in the four chief towns of the
island as a trophy of victory, and Bermingham was rewarded by the new earldom of Louth.

Edward Bruce's enterprise ended with his death, and Ireland rapidly settled down into its normal
condition of impotent turbulence. Though at first sight the invader utterly failed, yet he
pricked the bubble of the English power in Ireland. His gallant attempt at winning the throne
is the critical event in a long period of Irish history. From the days of Henry III to the
days of Edward Bruce, the lordship of the English kings in Ireland was to some extent a reality.
From 1315 to the reign of Henry VIII, the English dominion was little more than a name as regards
the greater part of Ireland.

No one attained success, in the years after Bannockburn,--neither Banaster, nor Llewelyn Bren,
nor the Bristol commons nor Edward Bruce and his Irish allies. Before long, the incompetence
of Lancaster became as manifest as the incompetence of Edward II. Lancaster's failure led to
the dissolution of the baronial opposition into fiercely opposing factions. Personal and territorial
jealousies slowly undermined a unity which had always been more apparent than real. The Earl
of Pembroke had never forgiven the treachery of Deddington. Though Warwick was dead, Pembroke
still pursued Lancaster with unrelenting hatred. No partisan of prerogative, and an enemy of
Edward's personal following, Earl Aymer separated himself from his old associates and strove
to form a middle party between the faction of the king and the faction of Lancaster. Warerine,
coarse, turbulent, and vicious, at once violent and crafty, still acted with him. The lord
of Conisborough had long grudged the master of Pontefract and Sandal his great position in
Yorkshire. The natural rivalries of neighbouring potentates were further emphasised by personal
animosity of the deadliest kind. Lancaster had long been at variance with his wife, Alice Lacy.
On May 9, 1317, the Countess of Lancaster ran away from him, with the active help of Warenne
and by the secret contrivance of the king. Private war at once broke out between the two earls.
Lancaster was too strong for his enemy. Before winter had begun, Conisborough and Warenne's
other Yorkshire castles fell into his hands. Lancaster's partisans even laid hold of the king's
castle of Knaresborough, while other Lancastrian bands occupied Alton castle in Staffordshire.
Intermittent hostilities continued until the summer of 1318. Twice Edward himself went to the
north, and on one occasion appeared in force outside Pontefract. But the more moderate of the
baronage managed to prevent open hostilities between the king and the earl. Lancaster was,
as ever, fighting for his own hand. His self-seeking narrowness gave Pembroke the chance of
winning for his middle party a preponderating authority.

Pembroke found more trustworthy allies than Warenne in Bartholomew, Lord Badlesmere, the sometime
instigator of the Bristol troubles, and a bitter opponent of Lancaster, and in Roger of Amory,
the husband of one of the three co-heiresses who now divided the Gloucester inheritance. Edward,
who had profited by the divisions of his enemies to revive the court party, formed a coalition
between his friends and the followers of Pembroke. All lovers of order, of moderation, and
of the supremacy of the law necessarily made common cause with them. Thus it followed that
the same machinery, which Lancaster a few years earlier had turned against the king, was now
turned against him. An additional motive to bring peaceable Englishmen into line was found
in the capture of Berwick by Bruce in April, 1318. After this negotiations for peace began.
The king and Lancaster treated as two independent princes. Lancaster was no longer supported
by any prominent earl, and even his clerical friends were falling from him. Ordainers as jealous
as Arundel, royalists as fierce as Mortimer, served along with trimmers like Pembroke and Badlesmere,
in acting as mediators. Lancaster could no more resist than Edward could in 1312. On August
9 he accepted at Leek, in Staffordshire, the conditions drawn up for him.

The treaty of Leek marks the triumph of the middle party and the removal of Lancaster from
the first place in the royal council. A pardon was granted to him and his followers, but Thomas
gained little else by the compact. Pembroke and his friends showed themselves as jealous of
Edward as ever the ordainers had been. The ordinances were once more confirmed, and a new council
of seventeen was nominated, including eight bishops, four earls, four barons, and one banneret.
The earls were Pembroke, Arundel, Richmond, and Hereford. Of these the Breton Earl of Richmond
was the most friendly to the king, but it was significant to find so truculent a politician
as Hereford making common cause with Pembroke. The most important of the four barons was Roger
Mortimer of Wigmore. Lancaster though not paramount was still powerful, but his habit of absenting
himself from parliaments made it useless to offer him a place in the council, and he was represented
by a single banneret, nominated by him. Of these councillors two bishops, one earl, one baron,
and Lancaster's nominee were to be in constant attendance. They were virtually to control Edward's
policy, and to see that he consulted parliament in all matters that required its assent. A
few days after the treaty Edward and Lancaster met at Hathern, near Loughborough, and exchanged
the kiss of peace. Roger of Amory and other magnates of the middle party reconciled themselves
to Lancaster, and he condescendingly restored them to his favour. But he would not deign to
admit Hugh Despenser to his presence, and declared that he was still free to carry on his quarrel
against Warenne. In October, a parliament at York confirmed the treaty of Leek, adding new
members to the council and appointing another commission to reform the king's household. From
that time until 1321, Pembroke and his friends controlled the English state, though often checked
both by the king and even more by Lancaster, who still stood ostentatiously aloof from parliaments
and campaigns. These years, though neither glorious nor prosperous, were the most peaceable
and uneventful of the whole of Edward II.'s reign. They are noteworthy for the only serious
attempt made to check the progress of the Scots after Bannockburn. From 1318 to 1320 king and
court were almost continually in the north. York became the regular meeting-place of parliaments
for even a longer period.

Since 1314, the Scots had mercilessly devastated the whole north of England. The population
made little attempt at resistance, and sought to buy them off by large payments of money. The
Scots took the cash and soon came again for more. They wandered at will over the open country,
and only the castles and walled towns afforded protection against them. Their forays extended
as far south as Lancashire and Yorkshire, and, so early as 1315, Carlisle and Berwick were
regularly besieged by them. It was to no purpose that in 1317 the pope issued a bull insisting
upon a truce. The English welcomed an armistice on any terms, but the Scots' interest was in
the continuance of the war, and they paid no attention to the papal proposal. The result was
a renewal of Bruce's excommunication, and the placing of all Scotland under interdict. Yet
no papal censures checked Robert's career or lessened his hold over Scotland. Next year he
showed greater activity than ever. In April, 1318, he captured the town of Berwick by treachery.
Peter of Spalding, one of the English burgesses who formed the town guard, was bribed to allow
a band of Scots to seize that section of the town wall of which he was guardian. Then the intruders
captured the gates and admitted their comrades. Thus the last Scottish town to be held by the
English went back to its natural rulers. The English burgesses were expelled, though Bruce
showed wonderful moderation, and few of his enemies were slain. Berwick castle held out for
a time, until lack of victuals caused its surrender. In May the Scots marched through Northumberland
and Durham into Yorkshire, burnt Northallerton and Boroughbridge, and exacted a thousand marks
from Ripon, as the price of respecting the church of St. Wilfred. They then spent three days
at Knaresborough, and made their way home through Craven.

Such successes show clearly enough that the treaty of Leek was not signed a moment too soon.
It was, however, too late for any great effort against the Scots in 1318. A strenuous endeavour
was made to levy a formidable expedition for 1319. In strict accordance with the ordinances,
the parliament, which met at York in May of that year, agreed that there should be a muster
at Berwick for July 22, and granted a liberal subsidy. An insolent offer of peace, coupled
with a promise of freedom of life and limb to Bruce, should he resign his crown, provoked from
the Scots king the reply that Scotland was his kingdom both by hereditary right and the law
of arms, and that he was indifferent whether he had peace with the English king or not. On
July 22, the feast of St. Mary Magdalen and the anniversary of Falkirk fight, the barons assembled
at Newcastle. Thomas of Lancaster was there with his brother Henry. Warenne, newly reconciled
with Lancaster by a large surrender of lands, also attended, as did Pembroke, Arundel, Hereford,
and the husbands of the three Gloucester co-heiresses. There was a braver show of earls than
even in 1314. An offer of lands, when Scotland was conquered, attracted a large number of volunteer
infantry, while the cupidity of the seamen was appealed to by a promise of ample plunder. In
August the host and fleet moved northwards, and closely beset Berwick.

The Scots were too astute to offer battle. While the English were employed at Berwick, Sir
James Douglas led their main force into the heart of Yorkshire. Douglas hoped to capture Queen
Isabella, who was staying near York. A spy betrayed this design to the English, and Isabella
was hurried off by water to Nottingham, while Douglas pressed on into the heart of Yorkshire.
The Yorkshiremen had to defend their own shire while their best soldiers were with the king
at Berwick. A hastily gathered assembly of improvised warriors flocked into York. Archbishop
Melton put himself at their head, and the clergy, both secular and religious, formed a considerable
element in the host. Then they marched out against the Scots, and found them at Myton in Swaledale.
The Scots despised the disorderly mob of squires and farmers, priests and canons, monks and
friars. "These are not warriors," they cried, "but huntsmen. They will do nought against us."
Concealing their movements by kindling great fires of hay, they bore down upon the Yorkshiremen
and put them to flight with much loss. The fight was called "the white battle of Myton" on
account of the large number of white-robed monks who took part in it The archbishop escaped
with the utmost difficulty. Many fugitives were drowned in the Swale, and not one would have
escaped had not night stopped the Scots' pursuit. The victors then pushed as far south as Pontefract.
On the news of the battle, the besiegers of Berwick were dismayed. There was talk of dividing
the army, and sending one part to drive Douglas out of Yorkshire while the other continued
the siege. But the magnates, in no mood to run risks, insisted on an immediate return to England.
Before Edward had reached Yorkshire, Douglas had made his way home over Stainmoor and Gilsland.
Thereupon the king sent back his troops, each man to his own house. The magnificent army had
accomplished nothing at all. So inglorious a termination of the campaign naturally gave rise
to suspicions of treason. A story was spread abroad that Lancaster had received £4,000 from
the King of Scots and had consequently done his best to help his ally. The rumour was so seriously
believed that the earl offered to purge himself by ordeal of hot iron. In despair Edward made
a two years' truce with the Scots. It was the best way of avoiding another Bannockburn.

Troublous times soon began again. Since Edward surrendered himself to the guidance of Pembroke
and Badlesmere, he had enjoyed comparative repose and dignity. It was only when a great enterprise,
like the Scots campaign, was attempted that the evil results of anarchy and the still-abiding
influence of Lancaster made themselves felt. But Edward bore no love to Pembroke and his associates,
and was quietly feeling his way towards the re-establishment of the court party. His chief
helpers in this work were the two Despensers, father and son, both named Hugh. The elder Despenser,
then nearly sixty years of age, had grown grey in the service of Edward I. A baron of competent
estate, he inherited from his father, the justiciar who fell at Evesham, an hereditary bias
towards the constitutional tradition, but he looked to the monarch or to the popular estates,
rather than to the baronage, as the best embodiment of his ideals. Ambitious and not over-scrupulous,
he saw more advantage to himself in playing the game of the king than in joining a swarm of
quarrelsome opposition lords. From the beginning of the reign he had identified himself with
Gaveston and the courtiers, and had incurred the special wrath of Lancaster and the ordainers.
Excluded from court, forced into hiding, excepted from several pacifications as he had been,
Despenser never long absented himself from the court. His ambition was kindled by the circumstance
that his eldest son had become the most intimate personal friend of the king. Brought up as
a boy in the household of Edward when Prince of Wales, the ties of old comradeship gradually
drew the younger Hugh into Gaveston's old position as the chief favourite. Neither a foreigner
nor an adventurer, Despenser had the good sense to avoid the worst errors of his predecessor.
As chamberlain, he was in constant attendance on the king; and having married Edward's niece
Eleanor, the eldest of the Gloucester co-heiresses, he sought to establish himself among the
higher aristocracy. Royal grants and offices rained upon father and son. The household officers
were changed at their caprice. The only safe way to the king's favour was by purchasing their
good-will. Their good fortune stirred up fierce animosities, and the barons showed that they
could hate a renegade as bitterly as a foreign adventurer.

The Despensers' ambition to attain high rank was the more natural from the havoc which death
had played among the earls. "Time was," said the monk of Malmesbury, "when fifteen earls and
more followed the king to war; but now only five or six gave him their assistance." The five
earldoms of Thomas of Lancaster meant the extinction of as many ancient houses. The earldoms
of Chester, Cornwall, and Norfolk had long been in the king's hands. If the comital rank was
not to be extinguished altogether, it had to be recruited with fresh blood. And who were so
fit to fill up the vacant places as these well-born favourites?

A little had been done under Edward II to remedy the desolation of the earldoms. The revival
of the earldom of Cornwall in favour of Gaveston had not been a happy experiment. But the king's
elder half-brother, Thomas of Brotherton, invested with the estates and dignities of the Bigods,
was made earl marshal and Earl of Norfolk. In 1321 the earldom of Kent, extinct since the fall
of Hubert de Burgh, was revived in favour of Edmund of Woodstock, the younger half-brother
of the king. The titular Scottish earldoms of some English barons, such as the Umfraville earls
of Angus, kept up the name, if not the state of earls, and we have seen the reward of the victor
of Dundalk in the creation of a new earldom of Louth in Ireland. But there were certain hereditary
dignities whose suspension seemed unnatural. Conspicuous among these was the Gloucester earldom
which, from the days of the valiant son of Henry I. to the death of the last male Clare at
Bannockburn, had played a unique part in English history.

Both the Despensers desired to be earls, and the younger Hugh wished that the Gloucester earldom
should be revived in his favour. Assured of the good-will of the king, both had to contend
against the jealousy of the baronage and the exclusiveness of the existing earls. The younger
Hugh had also to reckon with his two brothers-in-law, with whom he had divided the Clare estates.
These were Hugh of Audley, who had married Margaret the widow of Gaveston, and Roger of Amory,
the husband of Elizabeth, the youngest of the Clare sisters. There had been difficulty enough
in effecting the partition of the Gloucester inheritance among the three co-heiresses. In 1317
the division was made, and Despenser had become lord of Glamorgan, which politically and strategically
was most important of all the Gloucester lands.[1] Yet even then, Despenser was not satisfied
with his position. His rival Audley had been allotted Newport and Netherwent, while Amory had
been assigned the castle of Usk and estates higher up the Usk valley. Annoyed that he should
be a lesser personage in south Wales than Earl Gilbert had been, Despenser began to intrigue
against his wife's brothers-in-law. Each of the co-heirs had already become deadly rivals.
Their hostility was the more keen since the three had already taken different sides in English
politics. Despenser was the soul of the court faction; Amory was the ally of Pembroke and Badlesmere,
the men of the middle party; and Audley was an uncompromising adherent of Thomas of Lancaster.
There was every chance that each one of the three would have competent backing. To each the
triumph of his friends meant the prospect of his becoming Earl of Gloucester.

    [1] See for this, W.H. Stevenson, A Letter of the Younger
    Despenser in 1321 in Engl. Hist. Rev., xii. (1897), 755-61.

