It is not in my power to trace the progress of these lodges of masons in any connected history,
but I will proceed with the accounts we have of the masons in England from the time of St.
Austin. By them the old cathedral of Canterbury was built, in 600; St. Paul's, London, 604;
and St. Peter's, Westminster, 605; with many others. In the year 680 some more expert brethren
from France were formed into a lodge, under the direction of Bennet, Abbot of Wirral, who was
appointed superintendent of the masons by Kinred, King of Mercia. From this time, however,
little is known of the fraternity, until the year 856, when St. Swithin was the superintendent,
appointed by Ethelwolf; from which time it gradually improved till the year 872, when King
Alfred took the command of it. Upon his death, in 900, when Edward succeeded to the throne,
and Ethred, Prince of Mercia, patronised the society, Edward was succeeded, in 924, by his
son, Athelstan, whose brother, Edwin, procured from the king a charter for the masons, by which
they were empowered to meet annually in a general assembly, and to have power to regulate their
own order. And, according to this charter, the first grand lodge of England met at York, in
926. But here it is to be remarked that the grand lodge is not to be understood as the same
in those times that it is now; it was not then restricted to the masters and wardens of private
lodges, but was open to as many of the fraternity as could attend: for, until late years, the
grand lodge as now constituted did not exist, but there was but one family of masons; and any
sufficient number of masons met together, with the consent of the civil magistrate, to practise
the rites of masonry, without warrant of constitution as a lodge.

On the death of Prince Edwin, Athelstan himself presided over the lodges; but after his decease,
we know little of the state of the masons in Britain, except that they were governed by Dunstan,
Archbishop of Canterbury, in 960, and Edward the Confessor in 1041. But in 1066, William the
Conqueror appointed Gondulph, Bishop of Rochester, to preside over the society. In 1100, Henry
the First patronised them; and in 1135, during the reign of Stephen, the society was under
the command of Gilbert de Clare, Marquess of Pembroke.

From the year 1155 to 1199, the fraternity was under the command of the grand master of the
knights templars. This last prince revised the constitutions of the order, and appointed deputies
to superintend the fraternity, one of whom was William à Wykeham, afterwards Bishop of Winchester.
He continued grand master under the reign of Richard II.; was succeeded by Thomas Fitz Allen,
Earl of Surrey, in Henry IV.'s reign; and on Henry V.'s accession, Chichely, Archbishop of
Canterbury, presided over the society. We have records of a lodge held at Canterbury, under
his patronage, where Thos. Stapylton was master, and the names of the wardens and other brethren
are given. This was in 1429, four years after an act of parliament, passed early in the reign
of Henry VI., against the meetings of the society, which was caused by the enmity of Cardinal
Beaufort, Bishop of Winchester, towards Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, the king's uncle, a great
patron of the craft. But this act was never enforced, and in 1442 the king was himself initiated,
and he patronised the society.

In the meantime, under the auspices of James I. of Scotland, masonry flourished in that country.
It had been nursed, during the wars which ravaged Europe, in the humble village of Kilwinning,
in the west of the country; from whence it at length burst forth, and communicated its light
to the lodges in the south. The records of this lodge actually go back to the beginning of
the fifteenth century, as also do those of a lodge in or near Edinburgh. And about this time
the Scottish king appointed a fee to be paid by every master to the grand master, who was chosen
by the grand lodge. James II. of Scotland made the grand mastership hereditary, and conferred
it on the St. Clairs of Roslin, in which family it continued till 1736, when the then representative
of the family, being old and childless, resigned it into the hands of the grand lodge, then
first established on its present footing, by whom he was re-elected grand master for life.

During the civil wars in England masonry declined; but on the accession of Henry VII., in 1485,
it revived again, under the patronage of the grand master of the order of St. John, at Rhodes,
who, in 1500, chose King Henry their protector. In 1502 this king presided in person in a lodge
of master masons, and proceeded in ample form to lay the foundation of the chapel, at the east
end of Westminster Abbey, which bears his name.

The fraternity continued to flourish in the next reigns; and in the reign of Elizabeth, about
1550, Sir Thos. Sackville, then grand master, assembled the general lodge at York, which is
said to have roused the jealousy of the queen; and she intended to break up the meeting, but
being informed that they did not meddle with politics, she withdrew her orders, and permitted
them to meet unmolested. Sackville was succeeded by Sir Thomas Gresham, in the south, who built
the Royal Exchange, and by Francis Russell, Earl of Bedford, in the north.

Masonry continued to flourish in the next reign, under Inigo Jones, as grand master, till 1618,
when the Earl of Pembroke succeeded him; and after some more changes, Jones again was elected,
and continued to preside till his death, in 1646. But the civil war again obstructed the progress
of the order, until the Restoration, when it revived under the auspices of Charles II.

In 1663, the Earl of St. Alban's was elected grand master, who appointed Mr. (afterwards Sir
Christopher) Wren his deputy; which office he held until 1685, when he was himself appointed
to the grand chair. During his deputy-ship he erected many noble buildings, particularly the
cathedral of St. Paul's.

The short reign of James II. was not favourable to the order of masons; nor did it begin again
to revive for many years. King William III. was initiated privately in 1695, and approved the
choice of Sir Christopher Wren as grand master; but shortly after, and during the whole reign
of Queen Anne, the society decreased gradually, for the grand master's age prevented his attending
regularly, and the annual feasts were neglected.

On the accession, therefore, of Geo. I. the masons in London determined to revive, if possible,
the grand lodge and the communications of the society under a new grand master, Sir Christopher
Wren being dead. In February, 1717, accordingly, the only four lodges then existing in London
met, and voting the oldest master mason, constituted themselves a grand lodge; and on St. John
Baptist's day, meeting again, they elected Anthony Sayer, Esq., grand master, and he was regularly
installed by the grand master who had before been voted into the chair.

Mr. Sayer was succeeded by George Payne, Esq., in 1718, who collected all the records of the
society--by which means some copies of the old Gothic constitutions were produced and arranged.
In 1719, Dr. Desaguliers was grand master, and by his activity the order made great progress;
and at the feast of his installation, the custom of drinking healths was first introduced.
In the next, year, under Mr. Payne again, the fraternity sustained a great loss by the burning
of some valuable manuscripts, by some too scrupulous brethren; and next year, the Duke of Montague
was proposed for, and accepted the chair of grand master.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1726, the masons of Wales attached themselves to the grand lodge of England, and the office
of provincial master was instituted soon after. The Society was introduced into India in 1728,
and the grand lodge of America constituted, by warrant from London, in 1735; and that of Holland,
at Hamburgh, in the same year. In 1738, the Book of Constitutions was published; the grand
lodge of Prussia constituted under the Scotch constitution, and has ever since flourished in
that country; and in 1774, the grand lodge of Antigua was established, by warrant from the
grand lodge of England.

Correspondence was opened with the grand lodge of France in 1768; with that of Holland in 1770;
and that of Berlin in 1776. On the 1st of May, 1775, the foundation-stone of the Freemasons'
Hall was laid; and the building was opened and dedicated in solemn form on the 23rd of May,
1776, Lord Petre being then grand master.

In 1779, a correspondence was established with the grand lodge of Germany; and in 1782 an attempt
was made to open one with those of Scotland and Ireland. This was not then effected; but in
1803 explanations were made to the grand lodge of Scotland regarding the schism in England;
in consequence of which, two years after, the wished for union was accomplished; and in 1808
the same gratifying proposals were made from Ireland, and accepted with cordiality. Meantime,
the same brotherly communication had been instituted with Sweden in 1799, and Prussia in 1805.

While these friendly communications with foreign brethren were going on, masonic benevolence,
ever privately exercised, had made a public exertion in favour of the children of deceased
brethren at home, in the establishment of the charity for female children, in 1788; of the
masonic society for the relief of sick, lame, or distressed brethren, and their widows, children,
or orphans, in 1799. In the year 1816 freemasonry was revived in Russia, under the patronage
of the emperor, and communications forwarded from the grand lodge at St. Petersburgh to that
in London.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

WATER AT SHAFTESBURY.

Motcomb, half a mile north from Shaftesbury, is noted for containing the wells from which the
inhabitants of Shaftesbury are supplied with water. Great numbers of the inhabitants get their
living by carrying water, for which they have three halfpence or twopence the horse load. On
this account there is a particular custom yearly observed, according to ancient agreement,
dated 1662, between the Lord of the Manor of Gillingham, and the Mayor and Burgesses of Shaftesbury.
The Mayor is obliged, the Monday before Holy Thursday, to dress up a prize bezon, or bizant,
somewhat like a May garland in form, with gold and peacocks' feathers, and carry to Enmori
Green, half a mile below the town in Motcomb, as an acknowledgment for the water, together
with a raw calf's head, a pair of gloves, a gallon of beer or ale, and two penny loaves of
white wheaten bread, which the steward receives and carries away for his own use. The ceremony
being over, the bizant is restored to the Mayor, and brought back by one of his officers with
great solemnity. This bizant is generally so richly adorned with plate and jewels, borrowed
from the neighbouring gentry, as to be worth not less than £1,500.

C. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRINITY TERM ENDS 11th JUNE.

(For the Mirror.)

"On this day," says Brady, in his Calendaria, "Trinity Term ends; and immediately on the rising
of the Court, commences that cessation from legal business emphatically denominated the 'long
vacation,' or that space which our ancestors have wisely left undisturbed by law concerns,
that the people may be the better able to attend to the different harvests throughout the kingdom.
Thus the activity and bustle of the Inns of Court suddenly subside into a want of occupation,
not unaptly displayed in the following anonymous parody:--"

