PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 103

OCTOBER 22, 1892

IN MEMORIAM.

WILLIAM HARDWICK BRADBURY.

BORN, DEC. 3, 1832. DIED, OCT. 13, 1892.

  Large-hearted man, most loyal friend,
    Art thou too gone--too early lost?
    Our comrade true, our tireless host!
  Prompt to inspire, console, defend!
  Gone! Hearts with grateful memories stored
  Ache for thy loss round the old board.

  The well-loved board he loved so well,
    His pride, his care, his ceaseless thought;
    To him with life-long memories fraught;
  For him invested with the spell
  O'er a glad present ever cast
  By solemn shadows of the past.

  That past for him, indeed, was filled
    With a proud spirit-retinue.
    Greatness long since his guest he knew.
  Whom THACKERAY's manly tones had thrilled;
  Who heard keen JERROLD's sparkling speech,
  And marked the genial grace of LEECH.

  What changes had he known, who sat
    With our four chiefs, of each fast friend!
    And must such camaraderie end?
  Shall friendly counsel, cordial chat,
  Come nevermore again to us
  From lips with kindness tremulous?

  No more shall those blue eyes ray out
    Swift sympathy, or sudden mirth;
    That ever mobile mouth give birth
  To frolic whim, or friendly flout?
  Our hearts will miss thee to the end,
  Amphitryon generous, faithful friend!

  Miss thee? Alas! the void that's there
    No other form may hope to fill,
    For those who now with sorrow thrill
  In gazing on that vacant chair;
  Whither it seems he must return,
  For whose warm hand-clasp yet we yearn.

  Tribute to genius all may give,
    Ours is the homage of the heart;
    For a friend lost our tears will start,
  Lost to our sight, yet who shall live,
  Whilst one who knew that bold frank face
  At the old board takes the old place.

  For those, his closer kin, whose home
    Is darkened by the shadow grey,
    What can respectful love but pray
  That consolation thither come
  In that most sacred soothing guise
  Which natural sorrow sanctifies.

  Bereavement's anguish to assuage
    Is a sore task that lies beyond
    The scope of friendship or most fond
  Affection's power. Yet may this page,
  True witness of our love and grief,
  To bowed hearts bring some scant relief!

       *       *       *       *       *

"ANECDOTAGE."

COMPANION PARAGRAPH TO STORIES OF THE SAME KIND.

CURRAN, the celebrated Irish Patriot, was a man of intense wit and humour. On one occasion
he was discussing with RICHARD BRINSLEY SHERIDAN the possibility of combining the interests
of the two countries under one Crown. "It is a difficult matter to arrange," observed the brilliant
author of the School for Scandal, "Right you are, darlint," acquiesced CURRAN, with the least
taste of a brogue. "But where are ye to find the spalpeens for it? Ye may wake so poor a creature
as a sow, but it takes a real gintleman to raise the rint!" Then, with a twinkle in his eyes,
"But, for all that, ma cruiskeen, I'm not meself at all at all!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAY OF A SUCCESSFUL ANGLER.

  The dainty artificial fly
    Designed to catch the wily trout,
  Full loud laudabunt alii,
    And I will join, at times, no doubt,
  But yet my praise, without pretence,
  Is not from great experience.

  I talk as well as anyone
    About the different kinds of tackle,
  I praise the Gnat, the Olive Dun,
    Discuss the worth of wings and hackle;
  I've flies myself of each design,
  No book is better filled than mine.

  But when I reach the river's side
    Alone, for none of these I wish.
  No victim to a foolish pride.
    My object is to capture fish;
  Let me confess, then, since you ask it--
  A worm it is which fills my basket!

  O brown, unlovely, wriggling worm,
    On which with scorn the haughty look,
  It is thy fascinating squirm
    Which brings the fattest trout to book,
  From thee unable to refrain,
  Though flies are cast for him in vain!

  Deep gratitude to thee I feel,
    And then, perhaps, it's chiefly keen,
  When rival anglers view my creel,
    And straightway turn a jealous green;
  And, should they ask me--"What's your fly?"
  "A fancy pattern," I reply!

       *       *       *       *       *

SWORD AND PEN;

OR, THE RIVAL COMMANDERS.

(EXTRACT FROM A MILITARY STORY OF THE NEAR FUTURE.)

Captain Pipeclay was perplexed when his Company refused to obey him. He was considered a fairly
good soldier, but not up to date. He might know his drill, he might have read his Queen's Regulations,
but he had vague ideas of the power of the Press.

"You see, Sir," remonstrated his Colour-Sergeant; "if the rear rank think they should stand
fast when you give the command 'Open order!' it is only a matter of opinion. You may be right,
or you may be wrong. Speaking for myself, I am inclined to fancy that the men are making a
mistake; but you can't always consider yourself omniscient."

"Sergeant," returned the officer, harshly; "it is not the business of men to argue, but to obey."

"Pardon me again, Sir, but isn't that slightly old-fashioned? I know that theoretically you
have reason on your side; but then in these days of the latter end of the nineteenth century,
we must not he bound too tightly to precedent."

The Captain bit his moustache for the fourth time, and then again gave the order. But there
was no response. The Company moved not a muscle.

"This is mutiny!" cried the officer. "I will break everyone of you. I will put you all in the
cells; and in the orderly room to-morrow morning, we will soon see if there is such a thing
as discipline."

"Discipline!" repeated the Sergeant. "Beg your pardon, Sir, but I don't think the men understand
what you mean. The word is not to be found in the most recent dictionaries."

And certainly things seemed to be reaching a climax, for however much the Commander might shout,
not one of the rank and file stirred an inch. It was at this moment that a cloaked figure approached
the parade-ground. The new-comer strode about with a bearing that suggested one accustomed
to receive obedience.

"What is the matter?" asked the Disguised One.

"I can't get my men to obey me," explained the Captain. "I have been desiring them to take
open order for the last ten minutes, and they remain as they were."

"What have they to say in their defence?" was the inquiry of the Man in the Cloak.

"He won't let us write to the newspapers!" was heard from the ranks.

"Is this really so?" asked the new-comer, in a tone more of sorrow than of anger.

"Well, Sir," returned the Captain, "as it is a rule of the Service that no communications shall
be sent to the Press, I thought that--"

"You had no right to think, Sir!" was the sharp reply. "Are you so ignorant that you do not
know that it is a birth-right of a true-born Briton to air his opinions in the organs of publicity?
You will allow the men to go to their quarters at once, that they may state their grievances
on paper. They are at perfect liberty to write what they please, and they may rest assured
that their communications will escape the grave of the waste-paper basket."

Thus encouraged, the Company dismissed without further word of command.

"And who may you be?" asked the Captain, with some bitterness. "Are you the Commander-in-Chief?"

"I am one infinitely more powerful," was the reply. And then the speaker threw off his disguise-cloak,
and appeared in morning-dress. "Behold in me the Editor of an influential Journal!"

A week later the Captain had sent in his papers, and every man in the Company he had once commanded
wore the stripe of a Lance Corporal. And thus was the power of the Press once again sufficiently
vindicated.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BATTLE OF THE BARDS; OR, THE LISTS FOR THE LAURELS.

PROEM.

  Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra! The trumpets blare!
  The rival Bards, wild-eyed, with windblown hair,
  And close-hugged harps, advance with fire-winged feet
  For the green Laureate Laurels to compete;
  The laurels vacant from the brows of him
  In whose fine light all lesser lustres dim.
  Tourney of Troubadours! The laurels lie
  On crimson velvet cushion couched on high,
  Whilst Punch, Lord-Warden of his country's fame,
  Attends the strains to hear, the victor-bard to name.

  And first advances, as by right supreme,
  With frosted locks adrift, and eyes a-dream,
  With quick short footfalls, and an arm a-swing,
  As to some cosmic rhythm heard to ring
  From Putney to Parnassus, a brief bard.
  (In stature, not in song!) Though passion-scarred,
  Porphyrogenitus at least he looks;
  Haughty as one who rivalry scarce brooks;
  Unreminiscent now of youthful rage,
  Almost "respectable," and well-nigh sage,
  Dame GRUNDY owns her once redoubted foe,
  Whose polished paganry's erotic flow,
  And red anarchic wrath 'gainst priests, and kings,
  The virtues, and most other "proper" things,
  Once drew her frown where now her smile's bestowed.
  Such is the power of timely palinode!
  Soft twanged his lyre and loud his voice outrang,
  As the first Bard this moving measure sang:--

ON THE BAYS.

(To the tune--more or less--of "In the Bay.")

I.

  Beyond the bellowing onset of base war,
  Their latest wearer wendeth! With wild zest.
  Fulfilled of windy resonance, the rest
  Of the bard-mob must hotly joust and jar
  To win the wreath that he beyond the bar
  Bare not away athwart the bland sea's breast.

II.

  And sooth the soft sheen of that deathless bay
  Gleams glamorous! Amorous was I in my day,
  Clamorous were Gath's goose-critics. But my fire,
  Chastened from To-phet-fumes, burns purer, higher;
  My thoughts on courtier-wings might make their way
  Did my brow bear the laurels all these desire.

III.

  For I, to the proprieties reconciled.
  Who hymned Dolores, sing the "weanling child."
  At "home-made treacle" I made mocking mirth;
  That was before my better self had birth.
  At virtue's lilies and languors then I smiled,
  But Hertha's not thine only goddess, O Earth!

IV.

  For surely brother, and master, and lord, and king,
  Though vice's roses and raptures did not spring
  In thy poetic garden's trim parterre;
  Though thou wert fond of sunshine and sweet air,
  More than of kisses, that burn, and bite, and sting;
  Some living love our England for thee bare.

V.

  Thou, too, couldst sing about her sweet salt sea,
  And trumpet pæans loud to Liberty,
  With clamour of all applausive throats. Thy feet,
  Not wine-press red, yet left the flowers more sweet,
  From the pure passage of the god to be;
  And then couldst thunder praises of England's Fleet.

VI.

  I did not think to glorify gods and kings,
  Who scourged them ever with hate's sanguineous rods;
  But who with hope and faith may live at odds?
  And then these jingling jays with plume-plucked wings,
  Compete, and laureate laurels are lovely things,
  Though crowing lyric lauders of kings and gods!

  Beshrew the blatant bleating of sheep-voiced mimes!
  True thunder shall strike dumb their chirping chimes.
  If there be laureate laurels, or bays, or palms,
  In these red, Radical, revelling, riotous times,
  They should be the true bard's, though mid-age calms
  His revolutionary fierce rolling rhymes,
  Fulfilled with clamour and clangour and storm of--psalms

