The monastic spirit in Christianity owed much to the example of its founder, who was himself
unmarried, poor, and without a place "where to lay his head." Some of Christ's teachings, taken
literally, also helped to exalt the worth of the monastic life. At a very early period there
were Christian men and women who abstained from marriage, flesh meat, and the use of wine,
and gave themselves up to prayer, religious exercises, and works of charity. This they did
in their homes, without abandoning their families and human society.

THE HERMITS

Another monastic movement began about the middle of the third century, when many Christians
in Egypt withdrew into the desert to live as hermits. St. Anthony, who has been called the
first Christian hermit, passed twenty years in a deserted fort on the east bank of the Nile.
During all this time he never saw a human face. Some of the hermits, believing that pain and
suffering had a spiritual value, went to extremes of self- mortification. They dwelt in wells,
tombs, and on the summits of pillars, deprived themselves of necessary food and sleep, wore
no clothing, and neglected to bathe or to care for the body in any way. Other hermits, who
did not practice such austerities, spent all day or all night in prayer. The examples of these
recluses found many imitators in Syria and other eastern lands. [19]

RULE OF ST. BASIL

A life shut off from all contact with one's fellows is difficult and beyond the strength of
ordinary men. The mere human need for social intercourse gradually brought the hermits together,
at first in small groups and then in larger communities, or monasteries. The next step was
to give the scattered monasteries a common organization and government. Those in the East gradually
adopted the regulations which St. Basil, a leading churchman of the fourth century, drew up
for the guidance of the monks under his direction. St. Basil's Rule, as it is called, has remained
to the present time the basis of monasticism in the Greek Church.

ST. BENEDICT

The monastic system, which early gained an entrance into western Christendom, looked to St.
Benedict as its organizer. While yet a young man, St. Benedict had sought to escape from the
vice about him by retiring to a cave in the Sabine hills near Rome. Here he lived for three
years as a hermit, shutting himself off from all human intercourse, wearing a hair shirt, and
rolling in beds of thistles to subdue "the flesh." St. Benedict's experience of the hermit's
life convinced him that there was a surer and better road to religious peace of mind. His fame
as a holy man had attracted to him many disciples, and these he now began to group in monastic
communities under his own supervision. St. Benedict's most important monastery was at Monte
Cassino, midway between Rome and Naples. It became the capital of monasticism in the West.

RULE OF ST. BENEDICT, 529(?) A.D.

To control the monks of Monte Cassino St. Benedict framed a Rule, or constitution, which was
modeled in some respects upon the earlier Rule of St. Basil. The monks formed a sort of corporation,
presided over by an abbot, [20] who held office for life. To the abbot every candidate for
admission took the vow of obedience. Any man, rich or poor, noble or peasant, might enter the
monastery, after a year's probation; having once joined, however, he must remain a monk for
the rest of his days. The monks were to live under strict discipline. They could not own any
property; they could not go beyond the monastery walls without the abbot's consent; they could
not even receive letters from home; and they were sent to bed early. A violation of the regulations
brought punishment in the shape of private admonitions, exclusion from common prayer, and,
in extreme cases, expulsion.

SPREAD OF THE BENEDICTINE RULE

The Rule of St. Benedict came to have the same wide influence in the West which that of St.
Basil exerted in the East. Gregory the Great established it in many places in Italy, Sicily,
and England. During Charlemagne's reign it was made the only form of monasticism throughout
his dominions. By the tenth century the Rule prevailed everywhere in western Europe. [21]

125. LIFE AND WORK OF THE MONKS

A MONASTIC COMMUNITY

St. Benedict sought to draw a sharp line between the monastic life and that of the outside
world. Hence he required that, as far as possible, each monastery should form an independent,
self-supporting community whose members had no need of going beyond its limits for anything.
In course of time, as a monastery increased in wealth and number of inmates, it might come
to form an enormous establishment, covering many acres and presenting within its massive walls
the appearance of a fortified town.

THE MONASTERY BUILDINGS

The principal buildings of a Benedictine monastery of the larger sort were grouped around an
inner court, called a cloister. These included a church, a refectory, or dining room, with
the kitchen and buttery near it, a dormitory, where the monks slept, and a chapter house, where
they transacted business. There was also a library, a school, a hospital, and a guest house
for the reception of strangers, besides barns, bakeries, laundries, workshops, and storerooms
for provisions. Beyond these buildings lay vegetable gardens, orchards, grain fields, and often
a mill, if the monastery was built on a stream. The high wall and ditch, usually surrounding
a monastery, shut it off from outsiders and in time of danger protected it against attack.

MONASTIC OCCUPATIONS

St. Benedict defined a monastery as "a school for the service of the Lord." The monks under
his Rule occupied themselves with a regular round of worship, reading, and manual labor. Each
day was divided into seven sacred offices, beginning and ending with services in the monastery
church. The first service came usually about two o'clock in the morning; the last, just as
evening set in, before the monks retired to rest. In addition to their attendance at church,
the monks spent several hours in reading from the Bible, private prayer, and meditation. For
most of the day, however, they worked hard with their hands, doing the necessary washing and
cooking for the monastery, raising the necessary supplies of vegetables and grain, and performing
all the other tasks required to maintain a large establishment. This emphasis on labor, as
a religious duty, was a characteristic feature of western monasticism. "To labor is to pray"
became a favorite motto of the Benedictines. [22]

ATTRACTIVENESS OF THE MONASTIC LIFE

It is clear that life in a Benedictine monastery appealed to many different kinds of people
in the Middle Ages. Those of a spiritual turn of mind found in the monastic life the opportunity
of giving themselves wholly to God. Studious and thoughtful persons, with no disposition for
an active career in the world, naturally turned to the monastery as a secure retreat. The friendless
and the disgraced often took refuge within its walls. Many a troubled soul, to whom the trials
of this world seemed unendurable, sought to escape from them by seeking the peaceful shelter
of the cloister.

THE MONKS AS CIVILIZERS

The civilizing influence of the Benedictine monks during the early Middle Ages can scarcely
be over-emphasized. A monastery was often at once a model farm, an inn, a hospital, a school,
and a library. By the careful cultivation of their lands the monks set an example of good farming
wherever they settled. They entertained pilgrims and travelers, at a period when western Europe
was almost destitute of inns. They performed many works of charity, feeding the hungry, healing
the sick who were brought to their doors, and distributing their medicines freely to those
who needed them. In their schools they trained both boys who wished to become priests and those
who intended to lead active lives in the world. The monks, too, were the only scholars of the
age. By copying the manuscripts of classical authors, they preserved valuable books that would
otherwise have been lost. By keeping records of the most striking events of their time, they
acted as chroniclers of medieval history. To all these services must be added the work of the
monks as missionaries to the heathen peoples of Europe.

126. SPREAD OF CHRISTIANITY OVER EUROPE

THE ROMAN CHURCH AND THE BARBARIANS

Almost all Europe had been won to Christianity by the end of the eleventh century. In the direction
of this great missionary campaign the Roman Church took the leading part. [23] The officers
of her armies were zealous popes, bishops, and abbots; her private soldiers were equally zealous
monks, priests, and laymen. Pagan Rome had never succeeded in making a complete and permanent
conquest of the barbarians. Christian Rome, however, was able to bring them all under her spiritual
sway.

RECONVERSION OF THE ARIAN GERMANS

Christianity first reached the Germanic invaders in its Arian [24] form. Visigoths, Ostrogoths,
Vandals, Burgundians, and Lombards were all Arians. The Roman Church regarded them as heretics
and labored with success to reconvert them. This work was at last completed when the Lombards,
in the seventh century, accepted the Catholic faith.

FRANKS AND ANGLO-SAXONS CONVERTED TO ROMAN CATHOLICISM

The Franks and the Anglo-Saxons, whose kingdoms were to develop into the chief states of medieval
Europe, adopted from the outset the Catholic form of Christianity. The conversion of the Franks
provided the Roman Church with its strongest and most faithful adherents among the Germanic
tribes. [25] The conversion of Anglo-Saxon Britain by Augustine and his monks, followed later
by the spread of Roman Catholicism in Ireland and Scotland, firmly united the British Isles
to the Papacy. [26] Thus Rome during the Middle Ages came to be the one center of church life
for the peoples of western Europe.

ST. BONIFACE AND THE CONVERSION OF THE GERMANS

An Anglo-Saxon monk, St. Boniface, did more than any other missionary to carry Christianity
to the remote tribes of Germany. Like Augustine in England, St. Boniface was sent by the pope,
who created him missionary bishop and ordered him to "carry the word of God to unbelievers."
St. Boniface also enjoyed the support of the Frankish rulers, Charles Martel and Pepin the
Short. Thanks to their assistance this intrepid monk was able to penetrate into the heart of
Germany. Here he labored for nearly forty years, preaching, baptizing, and founding numerous
churches, monasteries, and schools. His boldness in attacking heathenism is illustrated by
the story of how he cut down with his own hands a certain oak tree, much reverenced by the
natives of Hesse as sacred to the god Woden, and out of its wood built a chapel dedicated to
St. Peter. St. Boniface crowned a lifetime of missionary labor with a martyr's death, probably
in 754 A.D. His work was continued by Charlemagne, who forced the Saxons to accept Christianity
at the point of the sword. [27] All Germany at length became a Christian land, devoted to the
Papacy.

CONVERSION OF THE SLAVS

Roman Catholicism not only spread to Celtic and Germanic peoples, but it also gained a foothold
among the Slavs. Both Henry the Fowler and Otto the Great attempted to Christianize the Slavic
tribes between the Elbe of the Slavs and the Vistula, by locating bishoprics in their territory.
The work of conversion encountered many setbacks and did not reach completion until the middle
of the twelfth century. The most eminent missionaries to the Slavs were Cyril and Methodius.
These brother-monks were sent from Constantinople in 863 A.D. to convert the Moravians, who
formed a kingdom on the eastern boundary of Germany. Seeing their great success as missionaries,
the pope invited them to Rome and secured their consent to an arrangement which brought the
Moravian Christians under the control of the Papacy. [28] From Moravia Christianity penetrated
into Bohemia and Poland. These countries still remain strongholds of the Roman Church. The
Serbians and Russians, as we have learned, [29] received Christianity by way of Constantinople
and so became adherents of the Greek Church.

FINAL EXTENSION OF ROMAN CATHOLICISM

Roman Catholicism gradually spread to most of the remaining peoples of Europe. The conversion
of the Norwegians and Swedes was well advanced by the middle of the eleventh century. The Magyars,
or Hungarians, accepted Christianity at about the same date. The king of Hungary was such a
devout Catholic that in the year 1000 A.D. the pope sent to him a golden crown and saluted
him as "His Apostolic Majesty." The last parts of heathen Europe to receive the message of
the gospel were the districts south and east of the Baltic, occupied by the Prussians, Lithuanians,
and Finns. Their conversion took place between the twelfth and fourteenth centuries.

127. SEPARATION OF EASTERN AND WESTERN CHRISTIANITY

DIVERGENCE OF EAST AND WEST

Before the Christian conquest of Europe was finished, Christianity had divided into two great
communions--the Greek Church and the Roman Church. Their separation was a long, slow process,
arising from the deep-seated differences between East and West. Though Rome had carried her
conquering arms throughout the Mediterranean basin, all the region east of the Adriatic was
imperfectly Romanized. [30] It remained Greek in language and culture, and tended, as time
went on, to grow more and more unlike the West, which was truly Roman. The founding of Constantinople
and the transference of the capital from the banks of the Tiber to the shores of the Bosporus
still further widened the breach between the two halves of the Roman world. After the Germans
established their kingdoms in Italy, Spain, Gaul, and Britain, western Europe was practically
independent of the rulers at Constantinople. The coronation of Charlemagne in 800 A.D. marked
the final severance of East and West.

THE PAPACY AND THE EASTERN EMPERORS

The division of the Roman Empire led naturally to a grouping of the Christian Church about
Rome and Constantinople, the two chief centers of government. The popes, it has been seen,
had always enjoyed spiritual leadership in the West. In temporal matters they acknowledged
the authority of the eastern emperors, until the failure of the latter to protect Rome and
Italy from the barbarians showed clearly that the popes must rely on their own efforts to defend
Christian civilization. We have already learned how well such men as Leo the Great and Gregory
the Great performed this task. Then in the eighth century came the alliance with the Frankish
king, Pepin the Short, which gave the Papacy a powerful and generous protector beyond the Alps.
Finally, by crowning Charlemagne, the pope definitely broke with the emperor at Constantinople
and transferred his allegiance to the newly created western emperor.

RISE OF THE PATRIARCHATE OF CONSTANTINOPLE

The patriarch of Constantinople, as bishop of the capital city, enjoyed an excellent position
from which to assert his preeminence over the bishops of the other churches in the East. Justinian
in 550 A.D. conferred on him the privilege of receiving appeals from the other patriarchs,
and a few years later that dignitary assumed the high-sounding title of "Universal Archbishop."
The authority of the patriarch of Constantinople was immensely strengthened when the Mohammedans,
having conquered Syria and Egypt, practically extinguished the three patriarchates of Antioch,
Jerusalem, and Alexandria. [31] The Church in the East now had a single patriarch, just as
that in the West had the one bishop of Rome. Rivalry between them was inevitable.

RIVALRY BETWEEN POPE AND PATRIARCH

One source of strife between pope and patriarch was the controversy, arising in the eighth
century, over the use of images in the churches. These images seem to have been, not statues,
but pictures (icons) of the apostles, saints, and martyrs. Many eastern Christians sought to
strip the churches of icons, on the ground that by the ignorant they were venerated almost
as idols. The Iconoclasts ("image-breakers") gained no support in the West. The Papacy took
the view that images were a help to true devotion and might, therefore, be allowed. When a
Roman emperor issued a decree for the destruction of all images, the pope refused to obey the
order in the churches under his direction, and went so far as to exclude the Iconoclasts from
Christian fellowship. Although the iconoclastic movement failed in the East, after a violent
controversy, it helped still further to sharpen the antagonism between the two branches of
Christendom. Other causes of dispute arose in later times, chiefly concerning fine points of
doctrine on which neither side would yield.

THE FINAL RUPTURE, 1054 A.D.

The final rupture of Christendom was delayed until the middle of the eleventh century. In 1054
A.D. the pope sent his legates to Constantinople to demand obedience to the Papacy. This being
refused, they laid upon the high altar of Sancta Sophia the pope's bill of excommunication.
Against the patriarch and his followers they pronounced a solemn curse, or anathema, devoting
them "to the eternal society of the Devil and his angels." Then, we are told, they strode out
of Sancta Sophia, shaking the dust from their feet and crying, "Let God see and judge." The
two branches of the Christian Church, thus torn apart, were never afterward reunited. [32]

128. THE GREEK CHURCH

THE GREEK AND ROMAN CHURCH COMPARED

The Greek and Roman churches, in some respects, are nearer together than Roman Catholicism
and Protestantism. Both recognize three orders for the ministry, namely, bishops, priests,
and deacons. Priests of the Greek Church may marry, but this privilege is not extended to bishops,
who, therefore, are chosen from the monks. Baptism, by both churches, is administered to infants,
but by the Greek Church under the form of total immersion. Confirmation in the Greek Church
follows immediately after baptism; in the Roman Church it is postponed to the age of reason.
In the communion service the Greek Church gives leavened bread, dipped in wine. The Roman Church
withholds wine from the laity and uses only a dry, unleavened wafer. While the services of
the Roman Church are conducted in Latin, for those of the Greek Church the national languages
(Greek, Russian, etc.) of the communicants are used. Its festivals do not coincide in time
of celebration with those of the Roman Church, since the "Julian Calendar" followed in the
East is now thirteen days behind the "Gregorian Calendar." [33]

SPREAD OF THE GREEK CHURCH

The Greek Church has not lacked missionary zeal. Through her agency the barbarians who entered
southeastern Europe during the early Middle Ages were converted to Christianity. At the present
time nearly all the peoples of the Balkan peninsula, including Greeks, Montenegrins, Serbians,
Bulgarians, and Rumanians, belong to the Greek Church. [34] Its greatest victory was won toward
the close of the tenth century, when the Russians were induced to accept the Greek form of
Christianity. Outlying branches of the Greek Church are found also in the Turkish Empire. It
now includes about one hundred and thirty-five million adherents in European lands.

PRESENT ORGANIZATION OF THE GREEK CHURCH

