Well, and so one day, when she was out in the sweet-smelling woods, all alone by herself, singing,
"Where are you going, my pretty maid, my pretty maid?" and watching the gold-jackets, and the
blue dragon-flies, and the sweet pond-lilies, and the bright-eyed glossy eels, and the little
crimson-spotted fish, as they "coiled and swam," and darted hither and thither, like "flashes
of golden fire," and then huddled together, all of a sudden, just underneath the green turf
where she sat, as if they saw something, and were half frightened to death, and were trying
to hide in the shadow; well and so--as she sat there, with her little naked feet hanging over
and almost touching the water, singing to herself, "My face is my fortune, sir, she said! sir,
she said!" and looking down into a deep sunshiny spot, and holding the soft smooth hair away
from her face with both hands, and trying to count the dear little fish before they got over
their fright, all at once she began to think of the water-fairies, and how cool and pleasant
it must be to live in these deep sunshiny hollows, with green turf all about you, the blossoming
trees and the blue skies overhead, the bright gravel underneath your feet, like powdered stars,
and thousands of beautiful fish for playfellows! all spotted with gold and crimson, or winged
with rose-leaves, and striped with faint purple and burnished silver, like the shells and flowers
of the deep sea, where the moonlight buds and blossoms forever and ever; and then she thought
if she could only just reach over, and dip one of her little fat rosy feet into the smooth
shining water,--just once--only once,---it would be so pleasant! and she should be so happy!
and then, if she could but manage to scare the fishes a little,--a very little,--that would
be such glorious fun, too,--wouldn't it, you?

Well and so--she kept stooping and stooping, and stretching and stretching, and singing to
herself all the while, "Sir, she said! sir, she said! I'm going a milking, sir, she said!"
till just as she was ready to tumble in, head first, something jumped out of the bushes behind
her, almost touching her as it passed, and went plump into the deepest part of the pool! saying,
"Once! once!" with a heavy booming sound, like the tolling of a great bell under water, and
afar off.

"Goody gracious! what's that?" screamed little Ruth Page, and then, the very next moment, she
began to laugh and jump and clap her hands, to see what a scampering there was among the poor
silly fish, and all for nothing! said she; for out came a great good-natured bull-frog, with
an eye like a bird, and a big bell-mouth, and a back all frosted over with precious stones,
and dripping with sunshine; and there he sat looking at her awhile, as if he wanted to frighten
her away; and then he opened his great lubberly mouth at her, and bellowed out, "Once! once!"
and vanished.

"Luddy tuddy! who cares for you?" said little Ruth; and so, having got over her fright, she
began to creep to the edge of the bank once more, and look down into the deep water, to see
what had become of the little fish that were so plentiful there, and so happy but a few minutes
before. But they were all gone, and the water was as still as death; and while she sat looking
into it, and waiting for them to come back, and wondering why they should he so frightened
at nothing but a bull-frog, which they must have seen a thousand times, the poor little simpletons!
and thinking she should like to catch one of the smallest and carry it home to her little baby-brother,
all at once a soft shadow fell upon the water, and the scented wind blew her smooth hair all
into her eyes, and as she put up both hands in a hurry to pull it away, she heard something
like a whisper close to her ear, saying, "Twice! twice!" and just then the trailing branch
of a tree swept over the turf, and filled the whole air with a storm of blossoms, and she heard
the same low whisper repeated close at her ear, saying, "Twice! twice!" and then she happened
to look down into the water,--and what do you think she saw there?

"Goody gracious, mamma! is that you?" said poor little Ruth; and up she jumped, screaming louder
than ever, and looking all about her, and calling, "Mamma, mamma! I see you, mamma! you needn't
hide, mamma!" But no mamma was to be found.

"Well, if that isn't the strangest thing!" said little Ruth, at last, after listening a few
minutes, on looking all round everywhere, and up into the trees, and away off down the river-path,
and then toward the house. "If I didn't think I saw my dear good mamma's face in the water,
as plain as day, and if I didn't hear something whisper in my ear and say, "Twice! twice!"--and
then she stopped, and held her breath, and listened again,--"if I didn't hear it as plain as
I ever heard anything in my life, then my name isn't Ruth Page, that's all, nor Teenty-Tawnty
neither!" And then she stopped, and began to feel very unhappy and sorrowful; for she remembered
how her mother had cautioned her never to go near the river, nor into the woods alone, and
how she had promised her mother many and many a time never to do so, never, never! And then
the tears came into her eyes, and she began to wish herself away from the haunted spot, where
she could kneel down and say her prayers; and then she looked up to the sky, and then down
into the still water, and then she thought she would just go and take one more peep,--only
one,--just to see if the dear little fishes had got over their fright, and then she would run
home to her mother, and tell her how forgetful she had been, and how naughty, and ask her to
give her something that would make her remember her promises. Poor thing! little did she know
how deep the water was, nor how wonderfully she had escaped! once, once! twice, twice! and
still she ventured a third time.

Well and so--don't you think, she crept along, crept along to the very edge of the green, slippery
turf, on her hands and knees, half trembling with fear, and half laughing to think of that
droll-looking fat fellow, with the big bell-mouth, and the yellow breeches, and the grass-green
military jacket, turned up with buff and embroidered with gems, and the bright golden eye that
had so frightened her before, and wondering in her little heart if he would show himself again;
and singing all the while, as she crept nearer and nearer, "Nobody asked you, sir, she said!
sir, she said! nobody asked you, sir, she said!" till at last she had got near enough to look
over, and see the little fishes there tumbling about by dozens, and playing bo-peep among the
flowers that grew underneath the bank, and were multiplied by thousands in the clear water,
when, all at once, she felt the turf giving way, and she put out her arms and screamed for
her mother. Goody gracious! how she did scream! and then something answered from the flowing
waters underneath, and from the flowering trees overhead, with a mournful sweet sound, like
wailing afar off, "Thrice! thrice!" and the flashing waters swelled up, saying, "Thrice! thrice!"
and the flowering branch of the tree swept over the turf, and the sound was the same, "Thrice!
thrice!" and in she went, headlong, into the deepest part of the pool, screaming with terror,
and calling on her mother to the last: poor mother!

