[10] History of the Captivity of Napoleon at St Helena. By General Count MONTHOLON Vols. iii.
and iv. London: H. Colburn.

JUANCHO THE BULL-FIGHTER.

M. Theophile Gautier, best known as a clever contributor to the critical feuilleton of a leading
Paris newspaper, also enjoys a respectable reputation as tale-teller and tourist. His books--although
for the most part slight in texture, and conveying the idea that the author might have done
better had he taken more pains--have certain merits of their own. His style, sometimes defaced
by affectation and pedantry, has a lively smartness not unfrequently rising into wit. And in
description he is decidedly happy. Possessing an artist's eye, he paints with his pen; his
colouring is vivid, his outline characteristic. These qualities are especially exemplified
in a spirited and picturesque, but very French narrative, of an extensive ramble in Spain,
published about four years ago. He has now again drawn upon his Peninsular experience to produce
a tale illustrative of Spanish life and manners, chiefly in the lower classes of society. His
hero is a bull-fighter, his heroine a grisette. Of bull-fights, especially within the last
few years, one has heard enough and to spare, since every literary traveller in Spain thinks
it incumbent on him to describe them. But this is the first instance we remember where the
incidents of the bull-ring, and the exploits and peculiarities of its gladiators, are taken
as groundwork for a romantic tale. The attempt has been crowned with very considerable success.

The construction of M. Gautier's little romance is simple and inartificial, the incidents are
spirited, the style is fresh and pleasant. Its character is quite Spanish, and one cannot doubt
the author's personal acquaintance with the scenes and types he sketches--although here and
there he has smoothed down with a little French polish the rugged angles of Spanish nationality,
and in other places he may be accused of melodramatising rather over much. Through the varnish
which it is the novelist's privilege to lay on with a more or less sparing brush, we obtain
many interesting and correct glimpses of classes of people whose habits and customs are unknown
to foreigners, and are likely to continue so, in great measure, until the appearance of Spanish
writers able and willing to depict them. The three principal personages of the tale--the only
important ones--are, a young gentleman of Madrid, a bull-fighter named Juancho, and an orphan
girl of humble birth and great beauty. The story hinges upon the rivalry of the gentleman and
the torero for the good graces of the grisette. There is a secondary plot, associated and partly
interwoven with the principal one, but which serves little purpose, save that of prolonging
a short tale into a volume. It will scarcely be necessary to refer to it in sketching the trials
of the gentle Militona, and the feats and misfortunes of the intrepid and unhappy Juancho.

It was on a June afternoon of the year 184--that Don Andrés de Salcedo--a cavalier of good
family, competent fortune, handsome exterior, amiable character, and four-and-twenty years
of age--emerged from a house in the Calle San Bernardo at Madrid, where he had passed a wearisome
hour in practising a duet of Bellini's with Doña Feliciana Vasquez de los Rios. This young
lady, still in her teens, moderately pretty and tolerably rich, Andrés had from childhood been
affianced with, and was accustomed to consider as his future wife, although his sentiments
towards her were, in fact, of a very tepid description. Betrothed as children by their parents,
there was little real love between them: they met without pleasure and parted without pain;
their engagement was an affair of habit, not of the heart.

It was a dia de toros, as Monday is called in Madrid--that being the day when bull-fights usually
take place--and Andrés, passionately addicted to the Spanish sport, left the mansion of his
mistress without any lover-like reluctance, and hurried to the bull-ring. Through the spacious
street of Alcala, then crowded to suffocation with vehicles of every description, horsemen,
and pedestrians, all hurrying to the point of grand attraction, the young man pressed onward
with that alert and active step peculiar to Spaniards--unquestionably the best walkers in the
world--joyfully fingering his ticket of Sombra por la tarde.[11] It entitled him to a place
close to the barrier; for Andrés, despising the elegance of the boxes, preferred leaning against
the ropes intended to prevent the bulls from leaping amongst the spectators. Thence each detail
of the combat is distinctly seen, each blow appreciated at its just value; and in consideration
of these advantages, Andrés willingly resigned his elbows to the contact of motley-jacketed
muleteers, and his curls to the perfume of the manolo's cigar.

Although a bridegroom-elect ought not, strictly speaking, to perceive the existence of other
women than his intended, such scrupulous fidelity is very rare except in romances: and Don
Andrés, albeit descended neither from Don Juan Tenorio nor Don Juan de Marana, was led to the
circus by other attractions besides the brave swordsmanship of Luca Blanco and of Montés' nephew.
At the bull-fight on the previous Monday he had seen a young girl of rare and singular beauty,
whose features had imprinted themselves on his memory with a minuteness and indelibility quite
extraordinary, considering the short time he had been able to observe them. So casual a meeting
should have left no more trace than the picture to which one accords a passing glance. No word
or sign had been exchanged between Andrés and the manola, (she apparently belonged to that
class,) who had been separated by several benches. Andrés had no reason to believe that the
young girl had remarked his admiration, or even perceived him. Her eyes, fixed upon the arena,
had not for an instant wandered from the incidents of the bull-fight, in which she appeared
to take an exclusive interest. It would have been natural to forget her on the threshold of
the circus; but, instead of that, her image had haunted Andrés all the week, recurring perpetually
to his memory with increased distinctness and perseverance. And it was a vague hope, unacknowledged
even to himself, of beholding the lovely manola, that now doubled his usual impatience to reach
the scene of the bull-fight.

At the very moment Andrés passed under one of the three arcades of the gate of Alcala, a calesin,
or light calash, dashed through the crowd, amidst a concert of curses and hisses, the usual
sounds with which the Spanish populace assail whatever deranges them in their pleasures, and
infringes upon the sovereignty of the pedestrian. This vehicle was of outrageous magnificence.
The body, borne by two enormous scarlet wheels, was covered with groups of Cupids, and with
Anacreontic attributes, such as lyres, tambourines, Pandaean pipes, cooing doves, and hearts
pierced with arrows, executed at some remote period by a pencil more remarkable for audacity
than correctness of design. The mule harnessed to this gaudy car, had the upper half of his
body closely clipped, bore a lofty panoply of coloured worsted upon his head, and was covered
with bells from nose to tail. A ferocious-looking charioteer, stripped to his shirt-sleeves,
a sheepskin jacket dangling from his shoulder, sat sideways upon the shaft, and belaboured
with his whip-handle the lean flanks of his beast, which sprang forward with redoubled fury
at each repetition of the stimulant.

There was nothing remarkable in the appearance of such a vehicle on a Monday afternoon at the
Alcala gate; and if we have honoured it with especial notice, it is because, upon beholding
it, the countenance of Don Andrés was illumined by an expression, of the most agreeable surprise.
The cabriolet contained two persons: one of these was a little old woman, in an antiquated
black dress, whose gown, too short by an inch, disclosed the hem of one of those yellow woolen
petticoats commonly worn by Castilian peasants. This venerable creature belonged to the class
of women known in Spain as Tia Pelona, Tia Blasia, according to their name, and which answer
to the French Mother Michel, Mother Godichon, in the society Paul de Kock delights to sketch.
Her large, black, cadaverous physiognomy was relieved by dark sunken eyes, and by a pair of
mustaches shading the corners of her lips. Although she had long passed the age of coquetry,
she arranged her elbows under her serge mantilla with an air of no small pretension, and flirted
with a certain dexterity a large green paper fan. It could hardly be the sight of this amiable
creature that brought a smile of satisfaction across the features of Don Andrés.

The second occupant of the cabriolet was a young girl, sixteen or eighteen years old--sixteen
rather than eighteen. A black silk mantilla, drooping from the top of a tall tortoiseshell
comb, round which a magnificent plait of hair was twisted, formed a frame to her lovely countenance,
whose paleness bordered on the olive. Her foot, worthy of a Chinese beauty, was extended on
the front of the calash, showing a delicate satin shoe and a tight silk stocking with coloured
clocks. One of her hands, slender and well formed, although a little sun-burnt, played with
the corners of her mantilla, and on the other, which held a white handkerchief, sparkled several
silver rings--the richest treasures of the manola's jewel-case. Buttons of jet glittered on
her sleeve, completing this strictly Spanish costume. Andrés recognised the charming creature
whose image had haunted him during the whole of the past week. Accelerating his pace, he entered
the bull-ring at the same time with the two women. Chance had so distributed the numbers of
the stalls that Andrés found himself seated next to the young manola.

Whilst the benches of the amphitheatre became rapidly covered with spectators, the bull-fighters
assembled in a large white-washed apartment, serving as a green-room for the actors in the
sanguinary drama. Amongst these was a man of five or eight-and-twenty, whose tawny complexion,
jet-black eyes, and crisp curling hair, told of an Andalusian origin. A more robust body and
better shaped limbs could hardly be seen. They exhibited strength and agility combined in the
happiest proportions. Equally well qualified to run and to wrestle, Nature, had she had the
express intention of making a bull-fighter, could not have succeeded better than when she moulded
this slender Hercules. Through the opening of his cloak glittered the spangles and embroidery
of his pink and silver vest, and the jewel of the ring that confined the ends of his cravat;
this jewel was of considerable value, proving, as did the whole of the costume, that its owner
belonged to the aristocracy of his profession. His mono of new ribbons, attached to the lock
of hair reserved expressly for that purpose, spread in gay profusion over his nape; his montero,
of the most glossy black, was loaded with silk ornaments of the same colour; his pumps, extraordinarily
small and thin, would have done honour to a shoemaker, and might have served a goddess of the
ballet.

Nevertheless, Juancho--such was the name of the torero--had not the frank, open air of a handsome
young fellow with gay garments on his back, about to be applauded by a host of pretty women.
Did apprehension of the approaching contest disturb his serenity? Had he seen in his dreams
an infernal bull bearing a matador empaled upon his horns of red-hot steel? Nothing of the
sort. This gloomy air was his wont since a twelvemonth. Without being on bad terms with his
comrades, there no longer existed between him and them that jovial and careless familiarity
usual amongst persons who share the chances of a perilous profession. He did not repulse advances,
but he made none; and although an Andalusian, he was often taciturn. If he at times threw off
his melancholy, it was to run into the opposite extreme, and abandon himself to a gaiety as
violent as it was factitious. Then he would drink like a fish, dance like a madman, and quarrel
about every thing and about nothing. The fit over, he relapsed into his previous moody reserve.

The hour fixed for the commencement of the sport approached. Juancho rose from his bench, threw
off his cloak, took his sword, and mingled with the motley group of toreros and chulos, banderillos
and espadas. The cloud had left his brow; his eyes sparkled, his nostril was dilated. A singular
expression of daring animated his fine features. His foot pressed the ground energetically,
and the nerves of his instep quivered beneath the knitted silk like the tense-strings on a
guitar-handle. Juancho was really a splendid fellow, and his costume wonderfully set off his
physical perfections. A broad red sash encircled his graceful waist; the silver embroideries
covering his vest formed, at the collar and pockets, and on the sleeves, patches where the
groundwork of the garment disappeared under the complications of the arabesques. It was no
longer pink embroidered with silver, but silver embroidered with pink. So loaded were the shoulders
with twist, filigree, knots and ornaments of all kinds, that the arms seemed to issue from
two crushed crowns. The satin hose, braided and spangled on the seams, were admirably adjusted
to limbs combining power and elegance. The whole dress was the masterpiece of Zapata of Granada,--of
that Zapata, unrivalled for majo costumes, who weeps when he takes one home, and offers his
customer more money to resign it to him than he had asked for making it. The learned in such
matters did not consider the suit dear at ten thousand reals. Worn by Juancho, it was worth
twenty thousand.

The last flourish of trumpets sounded; the arena was cleared of dogs and boys, and the troop
of bull-fighters entered. A murmur of admiration greeted Juancho when he made his obeisance
before the queen's box; he bent the knee with so good a grace, with an air at once, so humble
and so proud, and rose again so gracefully and easily, that the severest critics and oldest
frequenters of the circus declared none had ever done it better.

Meanwhile Andrés, delighted to have found the manola, paid little attention to the preliminaries
of the fight, and the first bull had already ripped up a horse before he bestowed a single
look upon the arena. He gazed at the young girl by his side, with an intentness that would
doubtless have embarrassed her had she perceived it. He thought her more charming than ever;
and certainly a more perfect type of Spanish beauty had never sat upon the blue granite benches
of the Madrid circus. With admiration amounting to ecstasy, Andrés contemplated the delicate
profile, the thin, well-formed nose, with nostrils pink-tinted, like the interior of a tropical
shell; the full temples, where, beneath the slightest possible tint of amber, meandered an
imperceptible network of blue veins; the mouth, fresh as a flower, ripe and ruddy as a fruit,
slightly opened by a half smile, and illuminated by a gleam of mother-of-pearl; and above all,
the eyes, whose glances, passing between a thick double fringe of black lashes, possessed an
irresistible fascination. It was the Greek form with the Arab character: the style of beauty
would have had something startling in a London or Paris drawing-room, but was perfectly in
its place at a bull-fight and under the ardent sky of Spain.

The old woman, less attentive than the young one to the progress of the sport, watched the
proceedings of Andrés with the look of a dog who scents a thief. As he persisted in his contemplation
of his pretty neighbour, the old lady's anger gradually increased; she fidgeted on her seat,
rattled her fan, pushed her companion with her elbow, and asked her all sorts of questions
to oblige her to turn her head. But the young girl either did not or would not understand;
she gave short answers, and resumed her attentive and serious attitude.

"The devil take the old witch!" muttered Andrés. "Tis a thousand pities they have abolished
the Inquisition! With such a face as that, she would have been treated, without form of trial,
to a ride on an ass, dressed in a san-benito and a sulphur shirt. She belongs to the seminary
of Barahona, and washes young girls for the sorcerers' sabbath."

Juancho, whose turn to kill had not yet come, stood carelessly in the centre of the circus,
paying no more attention to the bulls than if they had been so many sheep. He scarcely deigned
to take two or three steps aside when the furious beasts showed a disposition to attack him.
His large bright black eye glanced round boxes, galleries, and benches, where thousands of
fans, of every hue, fluttered and palpitated like butterflies' wings. He evidently sought some
one. At last a gleam of joy flashed across his brown features, and he made the slightest possible
movement of his head, the sort of salutation that actors sometimes address to their acquaintances
before the curtain. It was directed to the bench on which sat the old woman and the young girl.

"Militona," said the duenna in a low voice, "Juancho sees us. Be cautious! that young man ogles
you, and Juancho is jealous."

"What is that to me?" replied Militona in the same tone.

"You know he does not jest with those who displease him."

"I have not looked at the gentleman, and besides, am I not my own mistress?"

In saying she had not looked at Andrés, Militona was guilty of a slight equivocation. She had
not looked at him, perhaps, for women can see without looking, but she could have given a most
minute description of his person. And out of respect to truth, we must here mention that she
took Don Andrés de Salcedo for what he really was, a very smart and good-looking cavalier.

Andrés, as a pretext for commencing a conversation, called one of those dealers in oranges,
preserved fruits, lozenges, and other sweetmeats, who circulate in the corridor of the bull-ring,
and offer their wares to the spectators at the end of long sticks.

"Señorita, will you accept some comfits?" said Andrés, with an engaging smile to his beautiful
neighbour, offering her the open box.

The young girl turned quickly round, and looked at him with an air of uneasy surprise.

"They are lemon and mint," said he, as if to decide her.

Militona, suddenly making up her mind, plunged her little fingers into the box, and took a
pinch of the lozenges.

"Luckily Juancho has his back turned," muttered a majo who stood just by, "or there would be
blood on his knife to-night."

"Will this lady take some?" continued Andrés in a tone of exquisite politeness, holding out
the box to the horrible old woman, who was so disconcerted by this piece of audacity that in
her confusion she took every one of the sugar-plums. Nevertheless, whilst emptying the box
into the palm of her hand, black as that of a mummy, she cast a furtive and frightened glance
at the circus, and heaved an enormous sigh.

At that moment the orchestra sounded the death: it was Juancho's turn to kill. He approached
the municipal box, made the usual salutation and demand, and threw his montero into the air
in right cavalier style. The audience, usually so tumultuous, became profoundly silent. The
bull Juancho had to kill was of formidable breed; seven horses, stretched lifeless upon the
sand, their bowels protruding from hideous wounds, told of his fury and vigour. The two picadores
had left the arena, sorely bruised and crippled by numerous falls, and the supernumerary waited
in the corridor, foot in stirrup and lance in fist, ready to replace them. The chulos prudently
kept themselves in the vicinity of the palisade, one foot on the wooden ledge which aids them
to leap it in case of danger; and the victorious bull ranged the circus--stained here and there
by large puddles of blood, which the attendants dared not approach to scatter with sawdust--striking
the doors with his horns, and tossing the dead horses into the air. Juancho approached the
monstrous beast with that firm and deliberate step before which lions themselves retreat. The
bull, astonished at sight of a fresh adversary, paused, uttered a deep roar, shook the slaver
from his muzzle, scratched the earth with his hoof, lowered his head two or three times, and
made a few paces backwards. Juancho was magnificent to behold: his countenance expressed dauntless
resolution; his fixed and steadfast eyes, whose pupils, surrounded by white, resembled stars
of jet, darted invisible rays which pierced the bull like steel darts; unconsciously, he subjected
the brute to that magnetism by which Van Amburgh sends his trembling tigers crouching to the
extremity of their den. Each forward step made by the man was responded to by a backward one
of the ferocious beast. At this triumph of moral over brute force, the audience, seized with
enthusiasm, burst into frantic applause, shouting and stamping, yelling out vivas, and ringing
the species of bells which amateurs take with them to the bull-fights. Walls and ceilings cracked
beneath this storm of admiration, the paint crumbled off and flew about in whirlwinds of white
dust. The torero, thus applauded, raised his head, with flashing eyes and joyful heart, to
the place where Militona sat, as if to lay at her feet the admiration of a whole city. The
moment was badly chosen. Militona had dropped her fan, and Don Andrés, who had snatched it
up with all the precipitation of a person desirous to strengthen with an additional thread
the slender chain of a new acquaintance, returned it to her with a happy smile and gallant
gesture. The young girl could not do less than acknowledge the polite attention by a gracious
smile and inclination of her head. Smile and bow were detected by Juancho; his lips grew pale,
his complexion green, the orbits of his eyes became blood-shot, his hand contracted on his
sword-hilt, and the point of the weapon, which he held low, was thrust, by a convulsive movement,
thrice into the sand. The bull, no longer under the spell of the fascinating glance, approached
his adversary, who neglected to put himself on guard. The interval between man and beast was
terribly small.

"Master Juancho is not easily frightened," observed some of the more callous spectators.

"Juancho, have a care!" cried others, more humane; "Juancho de mi vida, Juancho of my heart,
Juancho of my soul, the bull is upon you!"

As to Militona, whether it was that the habit of bull-fights had blunted her sensibility, or
that she had entire confidence in the consummate skill of Juancho, or because she took little
interest in the man over whom she exercised such influence, her face continued as calm as if
nothing unusual was occurring; only a slight flush appeared in the centre of her cheek, and
the lace of her mantilla rose and fell upon her bosom with increased rapidity.

