The afternoon was chiefly spent in the hay-field under a willow-tree; Mr. Clare tried to leave
the young people to themselves, but they would not consent; and, after a good deal of desultory
talk and description of the minnows and water-spiders, in whom Mr. Clare seemed to take a deep
interest, they went on with their book till the horses came, and Alick took Rachel for a ride
in Earlsworthy Park, a private gate of which, just opposite to the Rectory, was free to its
inhabitants. The Duke was an old college friend of Mr. Clare, and though much out of health,
and hardly ever able to reside at the Park, all its advantages were at the Rector's service,
and they were much appreciated when, on this sultry summer's day, Rachel found shade and coolness
in the deep arcades of the beech woods, and freshness on the upland lawns, as she rode happily
on the dear old mare, by whom she really thought herself fondly recognised. There was something
in the stillness of the whole, even in the absence of the roll and plash of the sea waves beside
which she had grown up, that seemed to give her repose from the hurry and throb of sensations
and thoughts that had so long preyed upon her; and when the ride was over she was refreshed,
not tired, and the evening bell drew her to the conclusion most befitting a day spent in that
atmosphere of quietude. She felt grateful to her husband for making no remark, though the only
time she had been within a church since her illness had been at their wedding, he only gave
her his arm, and said she should sit in the nook that used to be his in the time of his lameness;
and a most sheltered nook it was, between a pillar and the open chancel screen, where no eyes
could haunt her, even if the congregation had been more than a Saturday summer evening one.

She only saw the pure, clear, delicately-toned hues of the east window, and the reverent richness
of the chancel, and she heard the blind pastor's deep musical voice, full of that expressive
power always enhanced by the absence of a book. He led the Psalms with perfect security and
a calm fervour that rendered the whole familiar service like something new and touching; the
Lessons were read by Alick, and Rachel, though under any other circumstances she would have
been startled to see him standing behind the Eagle, could not but feel all appropriate, and
went along with each word as he read it in a tone well worthy of his uncle's scholar. Whether
few or many were present, Rachel knew not, thought not; she was only sensible of the fulness
of calm joy that made the Thanksgiving touch her heart and fill her eyes with unbidden tears,
that came far more readily than of old.

"Yet this can't be all," she said to herself, as she wandered among the tall white lilies in
the twilight; "is it a trance, or am I myself? I have not unthought or unfelt, yet I seem falling
into a very sweet hypocrisy! Alick says thought will come back with strength. I don't think
I wish it!"

The curate did not return till after she had gone to bed, and in the morning he proved to be
indeed a very dry and serious middle-aged man, extremely silent, and so grave that there was
no knowing how much to allow for shyness. He looked much worn and had a wearied voice, and
Mr. Clare and Alick were contriving all they could to give him the rest which he refused, Mr.
Clare insisting on taking all the service that could be performed without eyes, and Alick volunteering
school-work. This Rachel was not yet able to undertake, nor would Alick even let her go to
church in the morning; but the shady garden, and the echoes of the Amens, and sweet, clear
tones of singing, seemed to lull her on in this same gentle, unthinking state of dreamy rest;
and thence, too, in the after part of the day, she could watch the rector, with his Sunday
class, on his favourite seat under the yew-tree, close to the cross that marked the resting-place
of his wife and child.

She went to church in the evening, sheltered from curious eyes in her nook, and there for a
moment she heard the peculiar brush and sweep of rich silk upon pavement, and wondered at so
sophisticated a sound in the little homely congregation, but forgot it again in the exulting,
joyous beauty of the chants and hymns, led by the rector himself, and, oh, how different from
poor Mr. Touchett's best efforts! and forgot it still more in the unfettered eloquence of the
preaching of a man of great natural power, and entirely accustomed to trust to his own inward
stores. Like Ermine Williams, she could have said that this preaching was the first that won
her attention. It certainly was the first that swept away all her spirit of criticising, and
left her touched and impressed, not judging. On what north country folk call the loosing of
the kirk, she, moving outwards after the throng, found herself close behind a gauzy white cloak
over a lilac silk, that filled the whole breadth of the central aisle, and by the dark curl
descending beneath the tiny white bonnet, as well as by the turn of the graceful head, she
knew her sister-in-law, Lady Keith, of Gowanbrae. In the porch she was met with outstretched
hands and eager greetings--

"At last! Where did you hide yourself? I had begun to imagine dire mischances."

"Only in the corner by the chancel."

"Alick's old nook! Keeping up honeymoon privileges! I have kept your secret faithfully. No
one knows you are not on the top of Snowdon, or you would have had all the world to call on you."

"There are always the Earlsworthy woods," said Alick.

"Or better still, come to Timber End. No one penetrates to my morning room," laughed Bessie.

"Now, Uncle George," she said, as the rector appeared, "you have had a full allowance of them
for three days, you must spare them to me to-morrow morning."

"So it is you, my lady," he answered, with a pleased smile; "I heard a sort of hail-storm of
dignity sailing in! How is Lord Keith?"

"Very stiff. I want him to have advice, but he hates doctors. What is the last Avonmouth news?
Is Ermine in good heart, and the boys well again?"

She was the same Bessie as ever--full of exulting animation, joined to a caressing manner that
her uncle evidently delighted in; and to Rachel she was most kind and sisterly, welcoming her
so as amply to please and gratify Alick. An arrangement was made that Rachel should be sent
for early to spend the day at Timber End, and that Mr. Clare and Alick should walk over later.
Then the two pretty ponies came with her little low carriage to the yew-tree gate, were felt
and admired by Mr. Clare, and approved by Alick, and she drove off gaily, leaving all pleased
and amused, but still there was a sense that the perfect serenity had been ruffled.

"Rachel," said Alick, as they wandered in the twilight garden, "I wonder if you would be greatly
disappointed if our travels ended here."

"I am only too glad of the quiet."

"Because Lifford is in great need of thorough rest. He has not been away for more than a year,
and now he is getting quite knocked up. All he does care to do, is to take lodgings near his
wife's asylum, poor man, and see her occasionally: sad work, but it is rest, and winds him
up again; and there is no one but myself to whom he likes to leave my uncle. Strangers always
do too little or too much; and there is a young man at Littleworthy for the long vacation who
can help on a Sunday."

"Oh, pray let us stay as long as we can!"

"Giving up the Cretins?"

"It is no sacrifice. I am thankful not to be hunted about; and if anything could make me better
pleased to be here, it would be feeling that I was not hindering you."

"Then I will hunt him away for six weeks or two months at least. It will be a great relief
to my uncle's mind."

It was so great a relief that Mr. Clare could hardly bring himself to accept the sacrifice
of the honeymoon, and though there could be little doubt which way the discussion would end,
he had not yielded when the ponies bore off Rachel on Monday morning.

Timber End was certainly a delightful place. Alick had railed it a cockney villa, but it was
in good taste, and very fair and sweet with flowers and shade. Bessie's own rooms, where she
made Rachel charmingly at home, were wonderful in choiceness and elegance, exciting Rachel's
surprise how it could be possible to be so sumptuously lodged in such a temporary abode, for
the house was only hired for a few months, while Gowanbrae was under repair. It was within
such easy reach of London that Bessie had been able from thence to go through the more needful
season gaieties; and she had thought it wise, both for herself and Lord Keith, not to enter
on their full course. It sounded very moderate and prudent, and Rachel felt vexed with herself
and Alick for recollecting a certain hint of his, that Lady Keith felt herself more of a star
in her own old neighbourhood than she could be in London, and wisely abstained from a full
flight till she had tried her wings. It was much pleasanter to go along with Bessie's many
far better and more affectionate reasons for prudence, and her minutely personal confidences
about her habits, hopes, and fears, given with a strong sense of her own importance and consideration,
yet with a warm sisterly tone that made them tokens of adoption, and with an arch drollery
that invested them with a sort of grace. The number of engagements that she mentioned in town
and country did indeed seem inconsistent with the prudence she spoke of with regard to her
own health, or with her attention to that of her husband; but it appeared that all were quite
necessary and according to his wishes, and the London ones were usually for the sake of trying
to detach his daughter, Mrs. Comyn Menteith, from the extravagant set among whom she had fallen.
Bessie was excessively diverting in her accounts of her relations with this scatter-brained
step-daughter of hers, and altogether showed in the most flattering manner how much more thoroughly
she felt herself belonging to her brother's wife. If she had ever been amazed or annoyed at
Alick's choice, she had long ago surmounted the feeling, or put it out of sight, and she judiciously
managed to leap over all that had passed since the beginning of the intimacy that had arisen
at the station door at Avoncester. It was very flattering, and would have been perfectly delightful,
if Rachel had not found herself wearying for Alick, and wondering whether at the end of seven
months she should be as contented as Bessie seemed, to know her husband to be in the sitting-room
without one sight of him.

At luncheon, however, when Lord Keith appeared, nothing could be prettier than his wife's manner
to him--bright, sweet, and with a touch of graceful deference, at which he always smiled and
showed himself pleased, but Rachel thought him looking much older than in the autumn--he had
little appetite, stooped a good deal, and evidently moved with pain. He would not go out of
doors, and Bessie, after following him to the library, and spending a quarter of an hour in
ministering to his comfort, took Rachel to sit by a cool dancing fountain in the garden, and
began with some solicitude to consult her whether he could be really suffering from sciatica,
or, as she had lately begun to suspect, from the effects of a blow from the end of a scaffold-pole
that had been run against him when taking her through a crowded street. Rachel spoke of advice.

"What you, Rachel! you who despised allopathy!"

"I have learnt not to despise advice."

And Bessie would not trench on Rachel's experiences.

"There's some old Scotch doctor to whom his faith is given, and that I don't half believe in.
If he would see our own Mr. Harvey here it would be quite another thing; but it is of no use
telling him that Alick would never have had an available knee but for Mr. Harvey's management.
He persists in leaving me to my personal trust in him, but for himself he won't see him at
any price! Have you seen Mr. Harvey?"

"I have seen no one."

"Oh, I forgot, you are not arrived yet; but--"

"There's some one," exclaimed Rachel, nervously; and in fact a young man was sauntering towards
them. Bessie rose with a sort of annoyance, and "Never mind, my dear, he is quite inoffensive,
we'll soon get rid of him." Then, as he greeted her with "Good morning, Lady Keith, I thought
I should find you here," she quickly replied.

"If you had been proper behaved and gone to the door, you would have known that I am not at home."

He smiled, and came nearer.

"No, I am not at home, and, what is more, I do not mean to be. My uncle will be here directly,"
she added, in a fee-faw-fum tone.

"Then it is not true that your brother and his bride are arrived?"

"True in the same sense as that I am at home. There she is, you see--only you are not to see
her on any account," as a bow necessarily passed between him and Rachel. "Now mind you have
not been introduced to Mrs. Keith, and if you utter a breath that will bring the profane crowd
in shoals upon the Rectory, I shall never forgive you."

"Then I am afraid we must not hope to see you at the bazaar for the idiots."

"No, indeed," Bessie answered, respecting Rachel's gesture of refusal; "no one is to infringe
her incog, under penalty of never coming here again."

"You are going?" he added to Bessie; "indeed, that was what brought me here. My sisters sent
me to ask whether they may shelter themselves under your matronly protection, for my mother
dreads the crush."

"I suppose, as they put my name down, that I must go, but you know I had much rather give the
money outright. It is a farce to call a bazaar charity."

"Call it what you will, it is one device for a little sensation."

Rachel's only sensation at that moment was satisfaction at the sudden appearance of Ranger's
white head, the sure harbinger of his master and Alick, and she sprang up to meet them in the
shrubbery path--all her morbid shyness at the sight of a fresh face passing away when her hand
was within Alick's arm. When they came forth upon the lawn, Alick's brow darkened for a moment,
and there was a formal exchange of greetings as the guest retreated.

"I am so sorry," began Bessie at once; "I had taken precautions against invasion, but he did
not go to the front door. I do so hope Rachel has not been fluttered."

"I thought he was at Rio," said Alick.

"He could not stand the climate, and was sent home about a month ago--a regular case of bad
shilling, I am afraid, poor fellow! I am so sorry he came to startle Rachel, but I swore him
over to secrecy. He is not to mention to any living creature that she is nearer than Plinlimmon
till the incog, is laid aside! I know how to stand up for bridal privileges, and not to abuse
the confidence placed in me."

Any one who was up to the game might have perceived that the sister was trying to attribute
all the brother's tone of disapprobation to his anxiety lest his wife should have been startled,
while both knew as well as possible that there was a deeper ground of annoyance which was implied
in Alick's answer.

"He seems extremely tame about the garden."

"Or he would not have fallen on Rachel. It was only a chance; he just brought over a message
about that tiresome bazaar that has been dinned into our ears for the last three months. A
bazaar for idiots they may well call it! They wanted a carving of yours, Uncle George!"

"I am afraid I gave little Alice Bertie one in a weak moment, Bessie," said Mr. Clare, "but
I hardly durst show my face to Lifford afterwards."

"After all, it is better than some bazaars," said Bessie; "it is only for the idiot asylum,
and I could not well refuse my name and countenance to my old neighbours, though I stood out
against taking a stall. Lord Keith would not have liked it."

"Will he be able to go with you?" asked Alick.

"Oh, no; it would be an intolerable bore, and his Scottish thrift would never stand the sight
of people making such very bad bargains! No, I am going to take the Carleton girls in, they
are very accommodating, and I can get away whenever I please. I am much too forbearing to ask
any of you to go with me, though I believe Uncle George is pining to go and see after his carving."

"No, thank you; after what I heard of the last bazaar I made up my mind that they are no places
for an old parson, nor for his carvings either, so you are quite welcome to fall on me for
my inconsistency."

"Not now, when you have a holiday from Mr. Lifford," returned Bessie. "Now come and smell the
roses."

All the rest of the day Alick relapsed into the lazy frivolous young officer with whom Rachel
had first been acquainted.

As he was driving home in the cool fresh summer night, he began--

"I think I must go to this idiotical bazaar!"

"You!" exclaimed Rachel.

"Yes; I don't think Bessie ought to go by herself with all this Carleton crew."

"You don't wish me to go," said Rachel, gulping down the effort.

"You! My dear Rachel, I would not take you for fifty pounds, nor could I go myself without
leaving you as vice deputy curate."

"No need for that," said Mr. Clare, from the seat behind; "young people must not talk secrets
with a blind man's ears behind them."

"I make no secret," said Alick. "I could not go without leaving my wife to take care of my
uncle, or my uncle to take care of my wife."

"And you think you ought to go?" said Mr. Clare. "It is certainly better that Bessie should
have a gentleman with her in the crowd; but you know this is a gossiping neighbourhood, and
you must be prepared for amazement at your coming into public alone not three weeks after your
wedding."

"I can't help it, she can't go, and I must."

"And you will bring down all the morning visitors that you talk of dreading."

"We will leave you to amuse them, sir. Much better that," he added between his teeth, "than
to leave the very semblance of a secret trusted by her to that intolerable puppy--"

Rachel said no more, but when she was gone upstairs Mr. Clare detained his nephew to say, "I
beg your pardon, Alick, but you should be quite sure that your wife likes this proposal."

"That's the value of a strong-minded wife, sir," returned Alick; "she is not given to making
a fuss about small matters."

"Most ladies might not think this a small matter."

"That is because they have no perspective in their brains. Rachel understands me a great deal
too well to make me explain what is better unspoken."

"You know what I think, Alick, that you are the strictest judge that ever a merry girl had."

"I had rather you continued to think so, uncle; I should like to think so myself. Good night."

Alick was right, but whether or not Rachel entered into his motives, she made no objection
to his going to the bazaar with his sister, being absolutely certain that he would not have
done so if he could have helped it.

Nor was her day at all dreary; Mr. Clare was most kind and attentive to her, without being
oppressive, and she knew she was useful to him. She was indeed so full of admiration and reverence
for him, that once or twice it crossed her whether she were not belying another of her principles
by lapsing into Curatocult, but the idea passed away with scorn at the notion of comparing
Mr. Clare with the objects of such devotion. He belonged to that generation which gave its
choicest in intellectual, as well as in religious gifts to the ministry, when a fresh tide
of enthusiasm was impelling men forward to build up, instead of breaking down, before disappointment
and suspicion had thinned the ranks, and hurled back many a recruit, or doctrinal carpings
had taught men to dread a search into their own tenets. He was a highly cultivated, large-minded
man, and the conversation between him and his nephew was a constant novelty to her, who had
always yearned after depth and thought, and seldom met with them. Still here she was constantly
feeling how shallow were her acquirements, how inaccurate her knowledge, how devoid of force
and solidity her reasonings compared with what here seemed to be old, well-beaten ground. Nay,
the very sparkle of fun and merriment surprised and puzzled her; and all the courtesy of the
one gentleman, and the affection of the other, could not prevent her sometimes feeling herself
the dullest and most ignorant person present. And yet the sense was never mortifying except
when here and there a spark of the old conceit had lighted itself, and lured her into pretensions
where she thought herself proficient. She was becoming more and more helpful to Mr. Clare,
and his gratitude for her services made them most agreeable, nor did that atmosphere of peace
and sincerity that reigned round the Rectory lose its charm. She was really happy all through
the solitary Wednesday, and much more contented with the results than was Alick. "A sickening
place," he said, "I am glad I went."

"How glad Bessie must have been to have you!"

"I believe she was. She has too much good taste for much of what went on there."

"I doubt," said Mr. Clare, laughing, "if you could have been an agreeable acquisition."

"I don't know. Bessie fools one into thinking oneself always doing her a favour. Oh, Rachel,
I am thankful you have never taken to being agreeable."

CHAPTER XXV. THE HUNTSFORD CROQUET.

"Une femme egoiste, non seulement de coeur, mais d'esprit, ne pent
pas sortir d'elle-meme. Le moi est indelible chez elle. Une veritable
egoiste ne sait meme pas etre fausse."
                                         --MME. E. DE GIRARDIN.

"I am come to prepare you," said Lady Keith, putting her arm into her brother's, and leading
him into the peacock path. "Mrs. Huntsford is on her way to call and make a dead set to get
you all to a garden party."

"Then we are off to the Earlsworthy Woods."

"Nay, listen, Alick. I have let you alone and defended you for a whole month, but if you persist
in shutting up you wife, people won't stand it."

"Which of us is the Mahometan?"

"You are pitied! But you see it was a strong thing our appearing without our several incumbrances,
and though an old married woman like me may do as she pleases, yet for a bridegroom of not
three weeks' standing to resort to bazaars solus argues some weighty cause."

"And argues rightly."

"Then you are content to be supposed to have an unproduceably eccentric melancholy bride?"

"Better they should think so than that she should be so. She has been victimized enough already
to her mother's desire to save appearances."

"You do not half believe me, Alick, and this is really a very kind, thoughtful arrangement
of Mrs. Huntsford's. She consulted me, saying there were such odd stories about you two that
she was most anxious that Rachel should appear and confute them; and she thought that an out-of-door
party like this would suit best, because it would be early, and Rachel could get away if she
found it too much for her."

"After being walked out to satisfy a curious neighbourhood."

"Now Alick, do consider it. This sort of thing could remind her of nothing painful; Uncle George
would enjoy it."

"And fall over the croquet traps."

"No; if you wanted to attend to him, I could take care of Rachel."

"I cannot tell, Bessie, I believe it is pure goodnature on Mrs. Huntsford's part, but if we
go, it must be from Rachel's spontaneous movement. I will not press her on any account. I had
rather the world said she was crazy at once than expose her to the risk of one of the dreadful
nights that haunted us till we came here to perfect quiet."

"But she is well now. She looks better and nicer than I ever saw her. Really, Alick, now her
face is softer, and her eyes more veiled, and her chin not cocked up, I am quite proud of her.
Every one will be struck with her good looks."

"Flattery, Bessie," he said, not ill pleased. "Yes, she is much better, and more like herself;
but I dread all this being overthrown. If she herself wishes to go, it may be a good beginning,
but she must not be persuaded."

"Then I must not even tell her that she won't be required to croquet, and that I'll guard her
from all civil speeches."

"No, for indeed, Bessie, on your own account and Lord Keith's, you should hardly spend a long
afternoon from home."

"Here's the war in the enemy's quarters! As to fatigue, dawdling about Mrs. Huntsford's garden,
is much the same as dawdling about my own, and makes me far more entertaining."

"I cannot help thinking, Bessie, that Lord Keith is more ill than you suppose. I am sure he
is in constant pain."

"So I fear," said Bessie, gravely; "but what can be done? He will see no one but his old surgeon
in Edinburgh."

"Then take him there."

"Take him? You must know what it is to be in the hands of a clever woman before you make such
a proposal."

"You are a cleverer woman than my wife in bringing about what you really wish."

"Just consider, Alick, our own house is uninhabitable, and this one on our hands--my aunt coming
to me in a month's time. You don't ask me to do what is reasonable."

"I cannot tell, Bessie. You can be the only judge of what is regard of the right kind for your
husband's health or for yourself; and see, there is Mrs. Huntsford actually arrived, and talking
to my uncle."

"One moment, Alick: I am not going to insult myself so far as to suppose that poor Charlie
Carleton's being at home has anything to do with your desire to deport me, but I want you to
know that he did not come home till after we were settled here."

"I do not wish to enter into details, Bessie," and he crossed the lawn towards the window where
Mr. Clare and Rachel had just received Mrs. Huntsford, a goodnatured joyous-looking lady, a
favourite with every one. Her invitation was dexterously given to meet a few friends at luncheon,
and in the garden, where the guests would be free to come and go; there might perhaps be a
little dancing later, she had secured some good music which would, she knew, attract Mr. Clare,
and she hoped he would bring Captain and Mrs. Keith. She knew Mrs. Keith had not been well,
but she promised her a quiet room to rest in, and she wanted to show her a view of the Devon
coast done by a notable artist in water-colours. Rachel readily accepted--in fact, this quiet
month had been so full of restoration that she had almost forgotten her morbid shrinking from
visitors; and Bessie infused into her praise and congratulations a hint that a refusal would
have been much against Alick's reputation, so that she resolved to keep up to the mark, even
though he took care that she should know that she might yet retract.

"You did not wish me to refuse, Alick," said she, struck by his grave countenance, when she
found him lying on the slope of the lawn shortly after, in deep thought.

"No, not at all," he replied; "it is likely to be a pleasant affair, and my uncle will be delighted
to have us with him. No," he added, seeing that she still looked at him inquisitively, "it
is the old story. My sister! Poor little thing! I always feel as though I wore more unkind
and unjust to her than any one else, and yet we are never together without my feeling as if
she was deceiving herself and me; and yet it is all so fair and well reasoned that one is always
left in the wrong. I regretted this marriage extremely at first, and I am not the less disposed
to regret it now."

"Indeed! Every one says how attentive she is to him, and how nicely they go on together."

"Pshaw, Rachel! that is just the way. A few words and pretty ways pass with her and all the
world for attention, when she is wherever her fancy calls her, all for his good. It is just
the attention she showed my uncle. And now it is her will and pleasure to queen it here among
her old friends, and she will not open her eyes to see the poor old man's precarious state."

"Do you think him so very ill, Alick?"

"I was shocked when I saw him yesterday. As to sciatica, that is all nonsense; the blow in
his side has done some serious damage, and if it is not well looked-to, who knows what will
be the end of it! And then, a gay young widow with no control over her--I hate to think of it."

"Indeed," said Rachel, "she is so warm and bright, and really earnest in her kindness, that
she will be sure to see her own way right at home. I don't think we can guess how obstinate
Lord Keith may be in refusing to take advice."

"He cut me off pretty short," said Alick. "I am afraid he will see no one here; and, as Bessie
says, the move to Scotland would not be easy just now. As I said, she leaves one in the wrong,
and I don't like the future. But it is of no use to talk of it; so let us come and see if my
uncle wants to go anywhere."

It was Alick's fate never to meet with sympathy in his feeling of his sister's double-mindedness.
Whether it were that he was mistaken, or that she really had the gift of sincerity for the
moment in whatever she was saying, the most candid and transparent people in the world--his
uncle and his wife--never even succeeded in understanding his dissatisfaction with Bessie's
doings, but always received them at her own valuation. Even while he had been looking forward,
with hope deferred, to her residence with him as the greatest solace the world could yet afford
him, Mr. Clare had always been convinced that her constant absence from his Rectory, except
when his grand neighbours were at home, had been unavoidable, and had always credited the outward
tokens of zealous devotion to his church and parish, and to all that was useful or good elsewhere.
In effect there was a charm about her which no one but her brother ever resisted, and even
he held out by an exertion that made him often appear ungracious.

However, for the present the uneasiness was set aside, in the daily avocations of the Rectory,
where Alick was always a very different person from what he appeared in Lady Temple's drawing-room,
constantly engaged as he was by unobtrusive watchfulness over his uncle, and active and alert
in this service in a manner that was a curious contrast to his ordinary sauntering ways. As
to Rachel, the whole state of existence was still a happy dream. She floated on from day to
day in the tranquil activity of the Rectory, without daring to look back on the past or to
think out her present frame of mind; it was only the languor and rest of recovery after suffering,
and her husband was heedfully watching her, fearing the experiment of the croquet party, though
on many accounts feeling the necessity of its being made.

Ermine's hint, that with Rachel it rested to prevent her unpopularity from injuring her husband,
had not been thrown away, and she never manifested any shrinking from the party, and even took
some interest in arraying herself for it.

"That is what I call well turned out," exclaimed Alick, when she came down.

"Describe her dress, if you please," said Mr. Clare, "I like to hear how my nieces look."

Alick guided his hand. "There, stroke it down, a long white feather in a shady hat trimmed
with dark green, velvet; she is fresh and rosy, you know, sir, and looks well in green, and
then, is it Grace's taste, Rachel? for it is the prettiest thing you have worn--a pale buff
sort of silky thing, embroidered all over in the same colour," and he put a fold of the dress
into his uncle's hand.

"Indian, surely," said Mr. Clare, feeling the pattern, "it is too intricate and graceful for
the West."

"Yes," said Alick, "I remember now, Grace showed it to me. It was one that Lady Temple brought
from India, and never had made up. Poor Grace could get no sympathy from Rachel about the wedding
clothes, so she was obliged to come to me."

"And I thought you did not know one of my things from another," said Rachel. "Do you really
mean that you care?"

"Depend upon it, he does, my dear," said Mr. Clare. "I have heard him severely critical on
his cousins."

"He has been very good in not tormenting me," said Rachel, nestling nearer to him.

"I apprehended the consequences," said Alick, "and besides, you never mounted that black lace
pall, or curtain, or whatever you call it, upon your head, after your first attempt at frightening
me away with it."

"A cap set against, instead of at," said Mr. Clare, laughing; and therewith his old horse was
heard clattering in the yard, and Alick proceeded to drive the well-used phaeton about three
miles through Earlsworthy Park, to a pleasant-looking demesne in the village beyond. As they
were turning in at the gate, up came Lady Keith with her two brisk little Shetlands. She was
one mass of pretty, fresh, fluttering blue and white muslin, ribbon, and lace, and looked particularly
well and brilliant.

"Well met," she said, "I called at the Rectory to take up Rachel, but you were flown before me."

"Yes, we went through the Park."

"I wish the Duke would come home. I can't go that way now till I have called. I have no end
of things to say to you," she added, and her little lively ponies shot ahead of the old rectorial
steed. However, she waited at the entrance. "Who do you think is come? Colin Keith made his
appearance this morning. He has safely captured his Ouralian bear, though not without plenty
of trouble, and he could not get him on to Avonmouth till he had been to some chemical institution
about an invention. Colin thought him safe there, and rushed down by the train to see us. They
go on to-morrow."

"What did he think of Lord Keith?" said Alick, in the more haste because he feared something
being said to remind Rachel that this was the assize week at Avoncester.

"He has settled the matter about advice," said Bessie, seriously; "you cannot think what a
relief it is. I mean, as soon as I get home, to write and ask Mr. Harvey to come and talk to
me to-morrow, and see if the journey to Edinburgh is practicable. I almost thought of sending
an apology, and driving over to consult him this afternoon, but I did not like to disappoint
Mrs. Huntsford, and I thought Rachel would feel herself lost."

"Thank you," said Rachel, "but could we not go away early, and go round by Mr. Harvey's?"

"Unluckily I have sent the ponies home, and told the close carriage to come for me at nine.
It was all settled, and I don't want to alarm Lord Keith by coming home too soon."

Alick, who had hitherto listened with interest, here gave his arm to Rachel, as if recollecting
that it was time to make their entree. Bessie took her uncle's, and they were soon warmly welcomed
by their kind hostess, who placed them so favourably at luncheon that Rachel was too much entertained
to feel any recurrence of the old associations with "company." Afterwards, Bessie took her
into the cool drawing-room, where were a few ladies, who preferred the sofa to croquet or archery,
and Lady Keith accomplished a fraternization between Rachel and a plainly dressed lady, who
knew all about the social science heroines of whom Rachel had longed to hear. After a time,
however, a little girl darted in to call "Aunt Mary" to the aid of some playfellow, who had
met with a mishap, and Rachel then perceived herself to have been deserted by her sister-in-law.
She knew none of the other ladies, and they made no approaches to her; an access of self-consciousness
came on, and feeling forlorn and uncomfortable, she wandered out to look for a friend.

It was not long before she saw Alick walking along the terrace above the croquet players, evidently
in quest of her. "How is it with you?" he anxiously asked; "you know you can go home in a moment
if you have had enough of this."

"No, I want nothing, now I have found you. Where is your uncle?"

"Fallen upon one of his oldest friends, who will take care of him, and well out of the way
of the croquet traps. Where's my Lady? I thought you were with her."

"She disappeared while I was talking to that good Miss Penwell! You must be pleased now, Alick,
you see she is really going to see about going to Scotland."

"I should be better pleased if she had not left that poor old man alone till nine o'clock."

"She says that when he has his man Saunders to read to him--"

"Don't tell me what she says; I have enough of that at first hand."

He broke off with a start. The terrace was prolonged into a walk beyond the screen of evergreens
that shut in the main lawn, and, becoming a shrubbery path, led to a smooth glade, on whose
turf preparations had been made for a second field of croquet, in case there should have been
too many players for the principal arena. This, however, had not been wanted, and no one was
visible except a lady and gentleman on a seat under a tree about half-way down on the opposite
side of the glade. The lady was in blue and white; the gentleman would hardly have been recognised
by Rachel but for the start and thrill of her husband's arm, and the flush of colour on his
usually pale cheek, but, ere he could speak or move, the lady sprang up, and came hastening
towards them diagonally across the grass. Rachel saw the danger, and made a warning outcry,
"Bessie, the hoop!" but it was too late, she had tripped over it, and fell prone, and entirely
unable to save herself. She was much nearer to them than to her late companion, and was struggling
to disengage herself when Alick reached her, lifted her up, and placed her on her feet, supporting
her as she clung fast to him, while he asked if she were hurt.

"No, no," she cried. "Don't let him come; don't let him call any one, don't," she reiterated,
as Mr. Carleton hovered near, evidently much terrified, but not venturing to approach.

Alick helped her to another garden chair that stood near. She had been entangled in her dress,
which had been much torn by her attempt to rise, and hung in a festoon, impeding her, and she
moved with difficulty, breathing heavily when she was first seated.

"I don't know if I have not twisted myself a little," she said, in answer to their anxious
questions, "but it will go off. Rachel, how scared you look!"

"Don't laugh," exclaimed Rachel, in dread of hysterics, and she plunged her hand into Alick's
pocket for a scent-bottle, which he had put there by way of precaution for her, and, while
applying it, said, in her full, sedate voice, keeping it as steady as she could, "Shall I drive
you home? Alick can walk home with his uncle when he is ready."

"Home! Thank you, Rachel, pray do. Not that I am hurt," she added in her natural voice, "only
these rags would tell tales, and there would be an intolerable fuss."

"Then I will bring the carriage round to the road there," said Alick. "I told Joe to be in
readiness, and you need not go back to the house."

"Thank you. But, oh, send him away!" she added, with a gasping shudder. "Only don't let him
tell any one. Tell him I desire he will not."

After a few words with Mr. Carleton, Alick strode off to the stables, and Rachel asked anxiously
after the twist.

"I don't feel it; I don't believe in it. My dear, your strong mind is all humbug, or you would
not look so frightened," and again she was on the verge of hysterical laughing; "it is only
that I can't stand a chorus of old ladies in commotion. How happy Alick must be to have his
prediction verified by some one tumbling over a hoop!" Just then, however, seeing Mr. Carleton
still lingering near, she caught hold of Rachel with a little cry, "Don't let him come, dear
Rachel; go to him, tell him I am well, but keep him away, and mind he tells no one!"

Rachel's cold, repellent manner was in full force, and she went towards the poor little man,
whose girlish face was blanched with fright.

She told him that Lady Keith did not seem to be hurt, and only wished to be alone, and to go
home without attracting notice. He stammered out something about quite understanding, and retreated,
while Rachel returned to find Bessie sitting upright, anxiously watching, and she was at once
drawn down to sit beside her on the bench, to listen to the excited whisper. "The miserable
simpleton! Rachel, Alick was right. I thought, I little thought he would forget how things
stand now, but he got back to the old strain, as if--I shall make Lord Keith go to Scotland
any way now. I was so thankful to see you and Alick." She proceeded with the agitated vehemence
of one who, under a great shock, was saying more than she would have betrayed in a cooler and
more guarded mood, "What could possess him? For years he had followed me about like a little
dog, and never said more than I let him; and now what folly was in his head, just because I
could not walk as far as the ruin with the others. When I said I was going to Scotland, what
business had he to--Oh! the others will be coming back, Rachel, could we not go to meet the
carriage?"

The attempt to move, however, brought back the feeling of the strain of which she had complained,
but she would not give way, and by the help of Rachel's arm, proceeded across the grass to
the carriage-drive, where Alick was to meet them. It seemed very far and very hot, and her
alternately excited and shame-stricken manner, and sobbing breath, much alarmed Rachel; but
when Alick met them, all this seemed to pass away--she controlled herself entirely, declaring
herself unhurt, and giving him cheerful messages and excuses for her hostess. Alick put the
reins into Rachel's hands, and, after watching her drive off, returned to the party, and delivered
the apologies of the ladies; then went in search of his uncle. He did not, however, find him
quickly, and then he was so happy with his old friend among a cluster of merry young people,
that Alick would not say a word to hasten him home, especially as Rachel would have driven
Bessie to Timber End, so that it would only be returning to an empty house. And such was Mr.
Clare's sociableness and disability of detaching himself from pleasant conversation, that the
uncle and nephew scarcely started for their walk across the park in time for the seven o'clock
service. Mr. Clare had never been so completely belated, and, as Alick's assistance was necessary,
he could only augur from his wife's absence that she was still at Timber End with his sister.

CHAPTER XXVI. THE END OF CLEVERNESS.

 "Where am I?
  O vanity,
  We are not what we deem,
  The sins that hold my heart in thrall,
  They are more real than all."--Rev. I. WILLIAMS.

As the uncle and nephew came out of church, and approached the yew-tree gate, Rachel came swiftly
to meet them. "Oh, Alick! oh, uncle!" she said breathlessly. "Bessie says she is shocked to
have turned your house upside down, but we could not go any further. And her baby is born!"
Then in answer to exclamations, half-dismayed, half-wondering, "Yes, it is all right, so Nurse
Jones says. I could not send to you, for we had to send everywhere at once. Mr. Harvey was
not at home, and we telegraphed to London, but no one has come yet, and now I have just written
a note to Lord Keith with the news of his son and heir. And, uncle, she has set her heart on
your baptizing him directly."

There was some demur, for though the child had made so sudden a rush into the world, there
seemed to be no ground for immediate alarm; and Mr. Clare being always at hand, did not think
it expedient to give the name without knowing the father's wishes with regard to that hereditary
Alexander which had been borne by the dead son of the first marriage. A message, however, came
down to hasten him, and when--as he had often before done in cottages--he demanded of Nurse
Jones whether private baptism were immediately necessary, she allowed that she saw no pressing
danger, but added, "that the lady was in a way about it," and this both Rachel and her maid
strongly corroborated. Rachel's maid was an experienced person, whom Mrs. Curtis had selected
with a view to Rachel's weak state at the time of her marriage, and she showed herself anxious
for anything that might abate Lady Keith's excitement, to which they at length yielded, feeling
that resistance might be dangerous to her. She further insisted that the rite should be performed
in her presence; nor was she satisfied when Rachel had brought in her uncle, but insisted on
likewise calling in her brother, who vaguely anxious, and fully conscious of the small size
of the room, had remained down-stairs.

Mr. Clare always baptized his infant parishioners, and no one was anxious about his manner
of handling the little one, the touch of whose garments might be familiar, as being no other
than his own parish baby linen. He could do no otherwise than give the child the name reiterated
by the mother, in weak but impatient accents, "Alexander Clare," her brother's own name, and
when the short service was concluded, she called out triumphantly, "Make Alick kiss him, Rachel,
and do homage to his young chieftain."

They obeyed her, as she lay watching them, and a very pretty sight she was with her dark hair
lying round her, a rosy colour on her cheeks, and light in her eyes; but Mr. Clare thought
both her touch and voice feverish, and entreated Rachel not to let her talk. Indeed Alick longed
to take Rachel away, but this was not at present feasible, since her maid was occupied with
the infant, and Nurse Jones was so entirely a cottage practitioner that she was scarcely an
available attendant elsewhere. Bessie herself would by no means have parted with her sister-in-law,
nor was it possible to reduce her to silence. "Alexander!" she said joyfully, "I always promised
my child that he should not have a stupid second son's name. I had a right to my own father's
and brother's name, and now it can't be altered," then catching a shade of disapproval upon
Rachel's face, "not that I would have hurried it on if I had not thought it right, poor little
fellow, but now I trust he will do nicely, and I do think we have managed it all with less
trouble than might have been expected."

Sure by this time that she was talking too much, Rachel was glad to hear that Mr. Harvey was
come. He was a friendly, elderly man, who knew them all intimately, having attended Alick through
his tedious recovery, and his first measure was to clear the room. Rachel thought that "at
her age" he might have accepted her services, rather than her maid's, but she suspected Alick
of instigating her exclusion, so eagerly did he pounce on her to make her eat, drink, and lie
on the sofa, and so supremely scornful was he of her views of sitting up, a measure which might
be the more needful for want of a bed.

On the whole, however, he was satisfied about her; alarm and excitement had restrung her powers,
and she knew herself to have done her part, so that she was ready to be both cheerful and important
over the evening meal. Mr. Clare was by no means annoyed at this vicissitude, but rather amused
at it, and specially diverted at the thought of what would be Mr. Lifford's consternation.
Lord Keith's servant had come over, reporting his master to be a good deal worn out by the
afternoon's anxiety, and recommending that he should not be again disturbed that night, so
he was off their minds, and the only drawback to the pleasantness of the evening was surprise
at seeing and hearing nothing from Mr. Harvey. The London doctor arrived, he met him and took
him up-stairs at once; and then ensued a long stillness, all attempts at conversation died
away, and Alick only now and then made attempts to send his companions to bed. Mr. Clare went
out to the hall to listen, or Rachel stole up to the extemporary nursery to consult Nurse Jones,
whom she found very gruff at having been turned out in favour of the stranger maid.

It was a strange time of suspense. Alick made Rachel lie on the sofa, and she almost heard
the beating of her own heart; he sat by her, trying to seem to read, and his uncle stood by
the open window, where the tinkle of a sheep bell came softly in from the meadows, and now
and then the hoot of the owl round the church tower made the watchers start. To watch that
calm and earnest face was their great help in that hour of alarm; those sightless eyes, and
broad, upraised spiritual brow seemed so replete with steadfast trust and peace, that the very
sight was soothing and supporting to the young husband and wife, and when the long strokes
of twelve resounded from the church tower, Mr. Clare, turning towards them, began in his full,
musical voice to repeat Bishop Ken's noble midnight hymn--

             "My God, now I from sleep awake,
              The sole possession of me take;
              From midnight terrors me secure,
              And guard my soul from thoughts impure."

To Rachel, who had so often heard that hour strike amid a tumult of midnight miseries, there
was something in these words inexpressibly gentle and soothing; the tears sprang into her eyes,
as if she had found the spell to chase the grisly phantoms, and she clasped her husband's hand,
as though to communicate her comfort.

             "Oh may I always ready stand,
              With my lamp burning in my hand;
              May I in sight of Heaven rejoice,
              Whene'er I hear the Bridegroom's voice."

Mr. Clare had just repeated this verse, when he paused, saying, "They are coming down," and
moved quickly to meet them in the hall. Alick followed him to the door, but as they entered
the dining-room, after a moment's hesitation, returned to Rachel, as she sat upright and eager.
"After all, this may mean nothing," he said.

"Oh, we don't make it better by fancying it nothing," said Rachel. "Let us try to meet it like
your uncle. Oh, Alick, it seemed all this time as if I could pray again, as I never could since
those sad times. He seemed so sure, such a rock to help and lean on."

He drew her close to him. "You are praying for her!" he murmured, his soul so much absorbed
in his sister that he could not admit other thoughts, and still they waited and watched till
other sounds were heard. The London doctor was going away. Alick sprang to the door, and opened
it as his uncle's hand was on the lock. There was a mournful, solemn expression on his face,
as they gazed mutely up in expectation.

"Children," he said, "it is as we feared. This great sorrow is coming on us."

"Then there is danger," said Alick with stunned calmness.

"More than danger," said his uncle, "they have tried all that skill can do."

"Was it the fall?" said Alick.

"It was my bad management, it always is," said Rachel, ever affirmative.

"No, dear child," said Mr. Clare, "there was fatal injury in the fall, and even absolute stillness
for the last few hours could hardly have saved her. You have nothing to reproach yourself with."

"And now!" asked Alick, hoarsely.

"Much more exhausted than when we were with her; sometimes faint, but still feverish. They
think it may last many hours yet, poor dear child, she has so much youth and strength."

"Does she know?"

"Harvey thought some of their measures alarmed her, but they soothed and encouraged her while
they saw hope, and he thinks she has no real fears."

"And how is it to be--" said Alick. "She ought--"

"Yes; Harvey thinks she ought, she is fully herself, and it can make no difference now. He
is gone to judge about coming up at once; but Alick, my poor boy, you must speak to her. I
have found that without seeing the face I cannot judge what my words may be doing."

Rachel asked about poor Lord Keith, and was told that he was to be left in quiet that night,
unless his wife should be very anxious for him at once. Mr. Harvey came down, bringing word
that his patient was asking urgently for Mrs. Keith.

"You had better let me go in first," said Alick, his face changed by the firm but tender awe-struck
look.

"Not if she is asking for me," said Rachel, moving on, her heart feeling as if it would rend
asunder, but her looks composed.

Bessie's face was in shade, but her voice had the old ring of coaxing archness. "I thought
you would stay to see the doctors off. They had their revenge for our stealing a march on them,
and have prowled about me till I was quite faint; and now I don't feel a bit like sleep, though
I am so tired. Would Alick think me very wicked if I kept you a little while? Don't I see Alick's
shadow? Dear old fellow, are you come to wish me good-night? That is good of you. I am not
going to plague you any more, Alick, I shall be so good now! But what?" as he held back the
curtain, and the light fell on his face, "Oh! there is nothing wrong with the baby?"

"No, dear Bessie, not with the baby," said Alick, with strong emphasis.

"What, myself?" she said quickly, turning her eyes from one face to the other.

Alick told her the state of the case. Hers was a resolute character, or perhaps the double
nature that had perplexed and chafed her brother was so integral that nothing could put it
off. She fully comprehended, but as if she and herself were two separate persons. She asked
how much time might be left to her, and hearing the doctor's opinion, said, "Then I think my
poor old Lord Keith had better have his night's rest in peace. But, oh! I should like to speak
to Colin. Send for him, Alick; telegraph, Alick; he is at the Paddington Hotel. Send directly."

She was only tranquillised by her brother beginning to write a telegraphic message.

"Rachel," she said, presently, "Ermine must marry him now, and see to Lord Keith, and the little
one--tell her so, please," then with her unfailing courtesy, "he will seem like your own child,
dear Rachel, and you should have him; but you'll have a wandering home with the dear old Highlanders.
Oh! I wonder if he will ever go into them, there must always be a Keith there, and they say
he is sure of the Victoria Cross, though papa will not send up his name because of being his
own son." Then passing her hand over her face, she exclaimed--"Wasn't I talking great nonsense,
Rachel? I don't seem able to say what I mean."

"It is weakness, dearest," said Rachel, "perhaps you might gain a little strength if you were
quite still and listened to my uncle."

"Presently. O Rachel! I like the sound of your voice; I am glad Alick has got you. You suit
him better than his wicked little sister ever did. You have been so kind to me to-night, Rachel;
I never thought I should have loved you so well, when I quizzed you. I did use you ill then,
Rachel, but I think you won Alick by it just by force of contrast,"--she was verging into the
dreamy voice, and Rachel requested her to rest and be silent.

"It can't make any difference," said Bessie, "and I'll try to be quiet and do all right, if
you'll just let me have my child again. I do want to know who he is like. I am so glad it is
not he that was hurt. Oh! I did so want to have brought him up to be like Alick."

The infant was brought, and she insisted on being lifted to see its face, which she declared
to resemble her brother; but here her real self seemed to gain the mastery, and calling it
a poor little motherless thing, she fell into a fit of violent convulsive weeping, which ended
in a fainting fit, and this was a fearfully perceptible stage on her way to the dark valley.

She was, however, conscious when she revived, and sent for her uncle, whom she begged to let
her be laid in his churchyard, "near the willow-tree; not next to my aunt, I'm not good enough,"
she said, "but I could not bear that old ruined abbey, where all the Keiths go, and Alick always
wanted me to be here--Alick was right!"

The dreamy mist was coming on, nor was it ever wholly dispelled again. She listened, or seemed
to listen, to her uncle's prayers, but whenever he ceased, she began to talk--perhaps sensibly
at first, but soon losing the thread--sometimes about her child or husband, sometimes going
back to those expressions of Charles Carleton that had been so dire a shock to her. "He ought
not! I thought he knew better! Alick was right! Come away, Rachel, I'll never see him again.
I have done nothing that he should insult me. Alick was right!"

Then would come the sobs, terrible in themselves, and ending in fainting, and the whole scene
was especially grievous to Alick, even more than to either of the others, for as her perception
failed her, association carried her back to old arguments with him, and sometimes it was, "Alick,
indeed you do like to attribute motives," sometimes, "Indeed it is not all self-deception,"
or the recurring wail, "Alick is right, only don't let him be so angry!" If he told her how
far he was from anger, she would make him kiss her, or return to some playful rejoinder, more
piteous to hear than all, or in the midst would come on the deadly swoon.

Morning light was streaming into the room when one of these swoons had fallen on her, and no
means of restoration availed to bring her back to anything but a gasping condition, in which
she lay supported in Rachel's arms. The doctor had his hand on her pulse, the only sounds outside
were the twittering of the birds, and within, the ticking of the clock, Alick's deep-drawn
breaths, and his uncle's prayer. Rachel felt a thrill pass through the form she was supporting,
she looked at Mr. Harvey, and understood his glance, but neither moved till Mr. Clare's voice
finished, when the doctor said, "I feared she would have suffered much more. Thank God!"

He gently relieved Rachel from the now lifeless weight, and they knelt on for some moments
in complete stillness, except that Alick's breath became more laboured, and his shuddering
and shivering could no longer be repressed. Rachel was excessively terrified to perceive that
his whole frame was trembling like an aspen leaf. He rose, however, bent to kiss his sister's
brow, and steadying himself by the furniture, made for the door. The others followed him, and
in a few rapid words Rachel was assured that her fears were ungrounded, it was only an attack
of his old Indian fever, which was apt to recur on any shock, but was by no means alarming,
though for the present it must be given way to. Indeed, his teeth were chattering too much
for him to speak intelligibly, when he tried to tell Rachel to rest and not think of him.

This of course was impossible, and the sun had scarcely risen, before he was placed in his
old quarters, the bed in the little inner study, and Rachel watched over him while Mr. Clare
had driven off with the doctor to await the awakening of Lord Keith.

Rachel had never so much needed strength. It was hard to believe the assurances of Alick, the
doctor, and the whole house, that his condition was not critical, for he was exceedingly ill
for some hours, the ailment having been coming on all night, though it was forced back by the
resolute will, and it was aggravated by the intensity of his grief, which on the other hand
broke forth the more violently from the failure of the physical powers. The brother and sister
had been so long alone in the world together, and with all her faults she had been so winning,
that it was a grievous loss to him, coming too in the full bloom of her beauty and prosperity,
when he was conscious of having dealt severely with her foibles. All was at an end--that double
thread of brilliant good-nature and worldly selfishness, with the one strand of sound principle
sometimes coming into sight. The life was gone from the earth in its incompleteness, without
an unravelling of its complicated texture, and the wandering utterances that revealed how entirely
the brother stood first with her, added poignancy to his regret for having been harsh with
her. It could hardly be otherwise than that his censures, however just, should now recoil upon
him, and in vain did Rachel try to point out that every word of his sister's had proved that
her better sense had all along acquiesced--he only felt what it might have been if he had been
more indulgent and less ironical, and gave himself infinitely harder measure than he ever could
have shown to her. It was long before the suffering, either mental or bodily, by any means
abated, and Rachel felt extremely lonely, deserted, and doubtful whether she were in any way
ministering to his relief, but at last a gleam of satisfaction came upon her. He evidently
did like her attendance on him, and he began to say something about Bessie's real love and
esteem for her--softer grief was setting in, and the ailment was lessening.

The summer morning was advancing, and the knell rung out its two deep notes from the church
tower. Rachel had been dreading the effect on him, but he lay still, as if he had been waiting
for it, and was evidently counting the twenty-three strokes that told the age of the deceased.
Then he said he was mending, and that he should fall asleep if Rachel would leave him, see
after the poor child, and if his uncle should not come home within the next quarter of an hour
take measures to silence the bell for the morning service; after which, he laid his injunctions
on her to rest, or what should he say to her mother? And the approach to a smile with which
these last words were spoken, enabled Rachel to obey in some comfort.

After satisfying herself that the child was doing well, Rachel was obliged to go into her former
room, and there to stand face to face with the white, still countenance so lately beaming with
life. She was glad to be alone. The marble calm above all counteracted and drove aside the
painful phantom left by Lovedy's agony, and yet the words of that poor, persecuted, suffering
child came surging into her mind full of peace and hope. Perhaps it was the first time she
had entered into what it is for weak things to confound the wise, or how things hidden from
the intellectual can be revealed to babes; and she hid her face in her hands, and was thankful
for the familiar words of old, "That we may embrace and ever hold fast the blessed hope of
everlasting life."

The continued clang of the bell warned her. She looked round at the still uncleared room, poor
Bessie's rings and bracelets lying mingled with her own on the toilet table, and her little
clock, Bessie's own gift, standing ticking on as it had done at her peaceful rising only yesterday
morning.

She took out her hat, and was on her way to silence the bell-ringer, when Mr. Clare was driven
up to the churchyard gate.

Lord Keith had been greatly shocked, but not overpowered, he had spoken calmly, and made minute
inquiries, and Mr. Clare was evidently a little disappointed, repeating that age and health
made a difference, and that people showed their feelings in various ways. Colonel Keith had
been met at the station, and was with his brother, but would come to make arrangements in the
course of the day. Rachel begged to stop the bell, representing that the assembled congregation
included no male person capable of reading the lessons; but Mr. Clare answered, "No, my dear,
this is not a day to do without such a beginning. We must do what we can. Or stay, it is the
last chapter of St. John. I could hardly fail in that. Sit near me, and give me the word if
I do, unless you want to be with Alick."

As Rachel knelt that day, the scales of self-conceit seemed to have gone. She had her childhood's
heart again. Her bitter remorse, her afterthoughts of perplexity had been lulled in the long
calm of the respite, and when roused again, even by this sudden sorrow, she woke to her old
trust and hope. And when she listened to the expressive though calm rehearsal of that solemn
sunrise-greeting to the weary darkling fishers on the shore of the mountain lake, it was to
her as if the form so long hidden from her by mists of her own raising, once more shone forth,
smoothing the vexed waters of her soul, and she could say with a new thrill of recognition,
"It is the Lord."

Once Mr. Clare missed a word, and paused for aid. She was crying too much to be ready, and,
through her tears, could not recover the passage so as to prompt him before he had himself
recalled the verse. Perhaps a sense of failure was always good for Rachel, but she was much
concerned, and her apologies quite distressed Mr. Clare.

"Dear child, no one could be expected to keep the place when there was so much to dwell on
in the very comfort of the chapter. And now if you are not in haste, would you take me to the
place that dear Bessie spoke of, by the willow-tree. I am almost afraid little Mary Lawrence's
grave may have left too little space."

Rachel guided him to a lovely spot, almost overhanging the stream, with the dark calm pools
beneath the high bank, and the willow casting a long morning shadow over it. Her mind went
back to the merry drive from Avoncester, when she had first seen Elizabeth Keith, and had little
dreamt that in one short year she should be choosing the spot for her grave. Mr. Clare paced
the green nook and was satisfied, asking if it were not a very pretty place.

"Yes," said Rachel, "there is such a quiet freshness, and the willow-tree seems to guard it."

"Is there not a white foxglove on the bank?"

"Yes, but with only a bell or two left at the top of the side spikes."

"Your aunt sowed the seed. It is strange that I was very near choosing this place nine years
ago, but it could not be seen from my window, which was an object with me then."

Just then his quick ear detected that some one was at the parsonage door, and Rachel, turning
round, exclaimed with horror, "It is that unhappy Mr. Carleton."

"Poor young fellow," said Mr. Clare, with more of pity than of anger, "I had better speak to him."

But they were far from the path, and it was not possible to guide the blind steps rapidly between
the graves and head stones, so that before the pathway was reached young Carleton must have
received the sad reply to his inquiries, for hurrying from the door he threw himself on his
horse, and rode off at full speed.

By the afternoon, when Colonel Keith came to Bishopsworthy, Alick was lying on the sofa with
such a headache that he could neither see nor spell, and Rachel was writing letters for him,
both in the frame of mind in which the Colonel's genuine warm affection and admiration for
Bessie was very comforting, assisting them in putting all past misgivings out of sight. He
had induced his brother to see Mr. Harvey, and the result had been that Lord Keith had consented
to a consultation the next day with an eminent London surgeon, since it was clear that the
blow, not the sciatica, was answerable for the suffering which was evidently becoming severe.
The Colonel of course intended to remain with his brother, at least till after the funeral.

"Can you?" exclaimed Alick. "Ought you not to be at Avoncester?"

"I am not a witness, and the case is in excellent hands."

"Could you not run down? I shall be available tomorrow, and I could be with Lord Keith."

"Thank you, Alick, it is impossible for me to leave him," said Colin, so quietly that no one
could have guessed how keenly he felt the being deprived of bringing her brother to Ermine,
and being present at the crisis to which all his thoughts and endeavours had so long been directed.

That assize day had long been a dream of dread to Rachel, and perhaps even more so to her husband.
Yet how remote its interest actually seemed! They scarcely thought of it for the chief part
of the day. Alick looking very pale, though calling himself well, went early to Timber End,
and he had not long been gone before a card was brought in, with an urgent entreaty that Mrs.
Keith would see Mrs. Carleton. Rachel longed to consult Mr. Clare, but he had gone out to a
sick person, and she was obliged to decide that Alick could scarcely wish her to refuse, reluctant
and indignant as she felt. But her wrath lessened as she saw the lady's tears and agitation,
so great that for a moment no words were possible, and the first were broken apologies for
intruding, "Nothing should have induced her, but her poor son was in such a dreadful state."

Rachel again became cold and stern, and did not relent at the description of Charlie's horror
and agony; for she was wondering at the audacity of mentioning his grief to the wife of Lady
Keith's brother, and thinking that this weak, indulgent mother was the very person to make
a foolish, mischievous son, and it was on her tongue's end that she did not see to what she
was indebted for the favour of such a visit. Perhaps Mrs. Carleton perceived her resentment,
for she broke off, and urgently asked if poor dear Lady Keith had alluded to anything that
had passed. "Yes," Rachel was is forced to say; and when again pressed as to the manner of
alluding, replied, that "she was exceedingly distressed and displeased," with difficulty refraining
from saying who had done all the mischief. Mrs. Carleton was in no need of hearing it. "Ah!"
she said, "it was right, quite right. It was very wrong of my poor boy. Indeed I am not excusing
him, but if you only knew how he blames himself."

"I am sure he ought," Rachel could not help saying. Mrs. Carleton here entreated her to listen,
and seized her hand, so that there was no escape. The tale was broken and confused, but there
could be little doubt of its correctness. Poor Bessie had been the bane of young Carleton's
life. She had never either decidedly accepted or repelled his affection, but, as she had truly
said, let him follow her like a little dog, and amused herself with him in the absence of better
game. He was in his father's office, but her charms disturbed his application to business and
kept him trifling among the croquet lawns of Littleworthy, whence his mother never had the
resolution to banish her spoilt child. At last Miss Keith's refusal of him softened by a half-implied
hope, sent him forth to his uncle at Rio, on the promise that if he did his utmost there, he
should in three years be enabled to offer Miss Keith more than a competence. With this hope
he had for the first time applied himself to business in earnest, when he received the tidings
of her marriage, and like a true spoilt child broke down at once in resolution, capacity, and
health, so that his uncle was only too glad to ship him off for England. And when Lady Keith
made her temporary home in her old neighbourhood, the companionship began again, permitted
by her in good nature, and almost contempt, and allowed by his family in confidence of the
rectitude of both parties; and indeed nothing could be more true than that no harm had been
intended. But it was perilous ground; ladies, however highly principled, cannot leave off self-pleasing
habits all at once, and the old terms returned sufficiently to render the barrier but slightly
felt. When Lady Keith had spoken of her intention of leaving Timber End, the reply had been
the old complaint of her brother's harshness and jealousy of his ardent and lasting affection,
and reproof had not at once silenced him. This it was that had so startled her as to make her
hurry to her brother's side, unheeding of her steps.

As far as Rachel could make out, the poor young man's grief and despair had been poured out
to his mother, and she, unable to soothe, had come to try to extract some assurance that the
catastrophe had been unconnected with his folly. A very slight foundation would have served
her, but this Rachel would not give, honestly believing him the cause of the accident, and
also that the shock to the sense of duty higher than he could understand had occasioned the
excitement which had destroyed the slender possibility of recovery. She pitied the unhappy
man more than she had done at first, and she was much pained by his mother's endeavours to
obtain a palliative for him, but she could not be untrue. "Indeed," she said, "I fear no one
can say it was not so; I don't think anything is made better by blinking the reality."

"Oh, Mrs. Keith, it is so dreadful. I cannot tell my poor son. I don't know what might be the
consequence."

Tears came into Rachel's eyes. "Indeed," she said, "I am very sorry for you. I believe every
one knows that I have felt what it is to be guilty of fatal mischief, but, indeed, indeed I
am sure that to realize it all is the only way to endure it, so as to be the better for it.
Believe me, I am very sorry, but I don't think it would be any real comfort to your son to
hear that poor Bessie had never been careful, or that I was inexperienced, or the nurse ignorant.
It is better to look at it fairly. I hear Mr. Clare coming in. Will you see him?" she added
suddenly, much relieved.

But Mrs. Carleton did not wish to see him, and departed, thinking Alick Keith's wife as bad
as had ever been reported, and preparing an account of her mismanagement wherewith to remove
her son's remorse.

She was scarcely gone, and Rachel had not had time to speak to Mr. Clare, before another visitor
was upon her, no other than Lord Keith's daughter, Mrs. Comyn Menteith; or, as she introduced
herself, "I'm Isabel. I came down from London to-day because it was so very shocking and deplorable,
and I am dying to see my poor little brother and uncle Colin. I must keep away from poor papa
till the doctors are gone, so I came here."

She was a little woman in the delicately featured style of sandy prettiness, and exceedingly
talkative and good-natured. The rapid tongue, though low and modulated, jarred painfully on
Rachel's feelings in the shaded staircase, and she was glad to shut the door of the temporary
nursery, when Mrs. Menteith pounced upon the poor little baby, pitying him with all her might,
comparing him with her own children, and asking authoritative questions, coupled with demonstrations
of her intention of carrying him off to her own nursery establishment, which had been left
in Scotland with a head nurse, whose name came in with every fourth word--that is, if he lived
at all, which she seemed to think a hopeless matter.

She spoke of "poor dear Bessie," with such affection as was implied in "Oh, she was such a
darling! I got on with her immensely. Why didn't you send to me, though I don't know that Donald
would have let me come," and she insisted on learning the whole history, illustrating it profusely
with personal experiences. Rachel was constantly hoping to be released from a subject so intensely
painful; but curiosity prevailed through the chatter, and kept hold of the thread of the story.
Mrs. Menteith decidedly thought herself defrauded of a summons. "It was very odd of them all
not to telegraph for me. Those telegrams are such a dreadful shock. There came one just as
I set out from Timber End, and I made sure little Sandie was ill at home, for you know the
child is very delicate, and there are so many things going about, and what with all this dreadful
business, I was ready to faint, and after all it was only a stupid thing for Uncle Colin from
those people at Avoncester."

"You do not know what it was?"

"Somebody was convicted or acquitted, I forget which, but I know it had something to do with
Uncle Colin's journey to Russia; so ridiculous of him at his age, when he ought to know better,
and so unlucky for all the family, his engagement to that swindler's sister. By-the-bye, did
he not cheat you out of ever so much money?"

"Oh, that had nothing to do with it--it was not Miss Williams's brother--it was not he that
was tried."

"Wasn't he? I thought he was found guilty or something; but it is very unfortunate for the
family, for Uncle Colin won't give her up, though she is a terrible cripple, too. And to tell
you a secret, it was his obstinacy that made papa marry again; and now it is of no use, this
poor little fellow will never live, and this sharper's sister will be Lady Keith after all!
So unlucky! Papa says she is very handsome, and poor Bessie declares she is quite ladylike."

"The most superior person I ever knew," said Rachel, indignantly.

"Ah, yes, of course she must be very clever and artful if her brother is a swindler."

"But indeed he is not, he was cheated; the swindler was Maddox."

"Oh, but he was a glass-blower, or something, I know, and her sister is a governess. I am sure
it is no fault of mine! The parties I gave to get him and Jessie Douglas together! Donald was
quite savage about the bills. And after all Uncle Colin went and caught cold, and would not
come! I would not have minded half so much if it had been Jessie Douglas; but to have her at
Gowanbrae--a glass-blower's daughter--isn't it too bad?"

"Her father was a clergyman of a good Welsh family."

"Was he? Then her brother or somebody had something to do with glass."

Attempts at explanation were vain, the good lady had an incapacity of attention, and was resolved
on her grievance. She went away at last because "those horrid doctors will be gone now, and
I will be able to see poor papa, and tell him when I will take home the baby, though I don't
believe he will live to be taken anywhere, poor dear little man."

She handled him go much more scientifically than Rachel could do, that it was quite humiliating,
and yet to listen to her talk, and think of committing any child to her charge was sickening,
and Rachel already felt a love and pity for her little charge that made her wretched at the
thoughts of the prognostic about him.

"You are tired with your visitors my dear," said Mr. Clare, holding out his hand towards her,
when she returned to him.

"How do you know?" she asked.

"By the sound of your move across the room, and the stream of talk I heard above must be enough
to exhaust any one."

"She thinks badly of that poor child," said Rachel, her voice trembling.

"My dear, it would take a good deal to make me uneasy about anything I heard in that voice."

"And if he lives, she is to have the charge of him," added Rachel.

"That is another matter on which I would suspend my fears," said Mr. Clare. "Come out, and
take a turn in the peacock path. You want air more than rest. So you have been talked to death."

"And I am afraid she is gone to talk Alick to death! I wonder when Alick will come home," she
proceeded, as they entered on the path. "She says Colonel Keith had a telegram about the result
of the trial, but she does not know what it was, nor indeed who was tried."

"Alick will not keep you in doubt longer than he can help," said Mr. Clare.

"You know all about it;" said Rachel. "The facts every one must know, but I mean that which
led to them."

"Alick told me you had suffered very much."

"I don't know whether it is a right question, but if it is, I should much like to know what
Alick did say. I begged him to tell you all, or it would not have been fair towards you to
bring me here."

"He told me that he knew you had been blind and wilful, but that your confidence had been cruelly
abused, and you had been most unselfish throughout."

"I did not mean so much what I had done as what I am--what I was."

"The first time he mentioned you, it was as one of the reasons that he wished to take our dear
Bessie to Avonmouth. He said there was a girl there of a strong spirit, independent and thorough-going,
and thinking for herself. He said, 'to be sure, she generally thinks wrong, but there's a candour
and simplicity about her that make her wildest blunders better than parrot commonplace,' and
he thought your reality might impress his sister. Even then I gathered what was coming."

"And how wrong and foolish you must have thought it."

"I hoped I might trust my boy's judgment."

"Indeed, you could not think it worse for him than I did; but I was ill and weak, and could
not help letting Alick do what he would; but I have never understood it. I told him how unsettled
my views were, and he did not seem to mind--"

"My dear, may I ask if this sense of being unsettled is with you still?"

"I don't know! I had no power to read or think for a long time, and now, since I have been
here, I hope it has not been hypocrisy, for going on in your way and his has been very sweet
to me, and made me feel as I used when I was a young girl, with only an ugly dream between.
I don't like to look at it, and yet that dream was my real life that I made for myself."

"Dear child, I have little doubt that Alick knew it would come to this."

Rachel paused. "What, you and he think a woman's doubts so vague and shallow as to be always
mastered by a husband's influence?"

Mr. Clare was embarrassed. If he had thought so he had not expected her to make the inference.
He asked her if she could venture to look back on her dream so as to mention what had chiefly
distressed her. He could not see her frowning effort at recollection, but after a pause, she
said, "Things will seem to you like trifles, indeed, individual criticisms appear so to me;
but the difficulty to my mind is that I don't see these objections fairly grappled with. There
is either denunciation or weak argument; but I can better recollect the impression on my own
mind than what made it."

"Yes, I know that feeling; but are you sure you have seen all the arguments?"

"I cannot tell--perhaps not. Whenever I get a book with anything in it, somebody says it is
not sound."

"And you therefore conclude that a sound book can have nothing in it?" he asked, smiling.

"Well, most of the new 'sound' books that I have met are just what my mother and sister like--either
dull, or sentimental and trashy."

"Perhaps those that get into popular circulation do deserve some of your terms for them. Illogical
replies break down and carry off some who have pinned their faith to them; but are you sure
that though you have read much, you have read deep?"

"I have read more deeply than any one I know--women, I mean--or than any man ever showed me
he had read. Indeed, I am trying not to say it in conceit, but Ermine Williams does not read
argumentative books, and gentlemen almost always make as if they knew nothing about them."

"I think you may be of great use to me, my dear, if you will help me. The bishop has desired
me to preach the next visitation sermon, and he wishes it to be on some of these subjects.
Now, if you will help me with the book work, it will be very kind in you, and might serve to
clear your mind about some of the details, though you must be prepared for some questions being
unanswered."

"Best so," replied Rachel, "I don't like small answers to great questions."

"Nor I. Only let us take care not to get absorbed in admiring the boldness that picks out stones
to be stumbled over."

"Do you object to my having read, and thought, and tried?"

"Certainly not. Those who have the capability should, if they feel disturbed, work out the
argument. Nothing is gained while it is felt that both sides have not been heard. I do not
myself believe that a humble, patient, earnest spirit can go far wrong, though it may for a
time be tried, and people often cry out at the first stumbling block, and then feel committed
to the exclamations they have made."

The conversation was here ended by the sight of Alick coming slowly and wearily in from the
churchyard, looking as if some fresh weight were upon him, and he soon told them that the doctors
had pronounced that Lord Keith was in a critical state, and would probably have much to suffer
from the formation that had begun where he had received the neglected bruise in the side. No
word of censure of poor Bessie had been breathed, nor did Alick mention her name, but he deeply
suffered under the fulfilment of his own predictions, and his subdued, dejected manner expressed
far more than did his words. Rachel asked how Lord Keith seemed.

"Oh, there's no getting at his feelings. He was very civil to me--asked after you, Rachel--told
me to give you his thanks, but not a single word about anything nearer. Then I had to read
the paper to him--all that dinner at Liverpool, and he made remarks, and expected me to know
what it was about. I suppose he does feel; the Colonel says he is exceedingly cut up, and he
looks like a man of eighty, infinitely worse than last time I saw him, but I don't know what
to make of him."

"And, Alick, did you hear the verdict?"

"What verdict?"

"That man at Avoncester. Mrs. Menteith said there had been a telegram."

Alick looked startled. "This has put everything out of my head!" he said. "What was the verdict?"

"That was just what she could not tell. She did not quite know who was tried."

"And she came here and harassed you with it," he said, looking at her anxiously. "As if you
had not gone through enouqh already."

"Never mind that now. It seems so long ago now that I can hardly think much about it, and I
have had another visitor," she added, as Mr. Clare left them to themselves, "Mrs. Carleton--that
poor son of hers is in such distress."

"She has been palavering you over," he said, in a tone more like displeasure than he had ever
used towards her.

"Indeed, Alick, if you would listen, you would find him very much to be pitied."

"I only wish never to hear of any of them again." He did not speak like himself, and Rachel
was aghast.

"I thought you would not object to my letting her in," she began.

"I never said I did," he answered; "I can never think of him but as having caused her death,
and it was no thanks to him that there was nothing worse."

The sternness of his manner would have silenced Rachel but for her strong sense of truth and
justice, which made her persevere in saying, "There may have been more excuse than you believe."

"Do you suppose that is any satisfaction to me?" He walked decidedly away, and entered by the
library window, and she stood grieved and wondering whether she had been wrong in pitying,
or whether he were too harsh in his indignation. It was a sign that her tone and spirit had
recovered, that she did not succumb in judgment, though she felt utterly puzzled and miserable
till she recollected how unwell, weary, and unhappy he was, and that every fresh perception
of his sister's errors was like a poisoned arrow to him; and then she felt shocked at having
obtruded the subject on him at all, and when she found him leaning back in his chair, spent
and worn out, she waited on him in the quietest, gentlest way she could accomplish, and tried
to show that she had put the subject entirely aside. However, when they were next alone together,
he turned his face away and muttered, "What did that woman say to you?"

"Oh, Alick, I am sorry I began! It only gives you pain."

"Go on--"

She did go on till she had told all, and he uttered no word of comment. She longed to ask whether
he disapproved of her having permitted the interview; but as he did not again recur to the
topic, it was making a real and legitimate use of strength of mind to abstain from tearing
him on the matter. Yet when she recollected what worldly honour would once have exacted of
a military man, and the conflicts between religion and public opinion, she felt thankful indeed
that half a century lay between her and that terrible code, and even as it was, perceiving
the strong hold that just resentment had taken on her husband's silently determined nature,
she could not think of the neighbourhood of the Carleton family without dread.

CHAPTER XXVII. THE POST BAG.

"Thefts, like ivy on a ruin, make the rifts they seem to shade."--
                                                  C. G. DUFFY.

                                                 "August 3d, 7 A. M.

"My Dear Colonel Keith,--Papa is come, and I have got up so early in the morning that I have
nothing to do but to write to you before we go in to Avoncester. Papa and Mr. Beechum came
by the six o'clock train, and Lady Temple sent me in the waggonette to meet them. Aunt Ailie
would not go, because she was afraid Aunt Ermine would get anxious whilst she was waiting.
I saw papa directly, and yet I did not think it could be papa, because you were not there,
and he looked quite past me, and I do not think he would have found me or the carriage at all
if Mr. Beechum had not known me. And then, I am afraid I was very naughty, but I could not
help crying just a little when I found you had not come; but perhaps Lady Keith may be better,
and you may come before I go into court to-day, and then I shall tear up this letter. I am
afraid papa thought I was unkind to cry when he was just come home, for he did not talk to
me near so much as Mr. Beechum did, and his eyes kept looking out as if he did not see anything
near, only quite far away. And I suppose Russian coats must be made of some sort of sheep that
eats tobacco."

                                                 "August 3d, 10 A. M.

"Dearest Colin,--I have just lighted on poor little Rosie's before-breakfast composition, and
I can't refrain from sending you her first impressions, poor child, though no doubt they will
alter, as she sees more of her father. All are gone to Avoncester now, though with some doubts
whether this be indeed the critical day; I hope it may be, the sooner this is over the better,
but I am full of hope. I cannot believe but that the Providence that has done so much to discover
Edward's innocence to the world, will finish the work! I have little expectation though of
your coming down in time to see it, the copy of the telegraphic message, which you sent by
Harry, looks as bad as possible, and even allowing something for inexperience and fright, things
must be in a state in which you could hardly leave your brother, so unwell as he seems.

"2 p.m. I was interrupted by Lady Temple, who was soon followed by Mrs. Curtis, burning to
know whether I had any more intelligence than had floated to them. Pray, if you can say anything
to exonerate poor Rachel from mismanagement, say it strongly; her best friends are so engaged
in wishing themselves there, and pitying poor Bessie for being in her charge, that I long to
confute them, for I fully believe in her sense and spirit in any real emergency that she had
not ridden out to encounter.

"And I have written so far without a word on the great subject of all, the joy untold for which
our hearts had ached so long, and which we owe entirely to you, for Edward owns that nothing
but your personal representations would have brought him, and, as I suppose you already know--he
so much hated the whole subject of Maddox's treachery that he had flung aside, unread, all
that he saw related to it. Dear Colin, whatever else you have done, you have filled a famished
heart. Could you but have seen Ailie's face all last evening as she sat by his side, you would
have felt your reward--it was as if the worn, anxious, almost stern mask had been taken away,
and our Ailie's face was beaming out as of old when she was the family pet, before Julia took
her away to be finished. She sees no change; she is in an ecstasy of glamour that makes her
constantly repeat her rejoicings that Edward is so much himself, so unchanged, till I almost
feel unsisterly for seeing in him the traces that these sad years have left, and that poor
little Rose herself has detected. No, he is not so much changed as exaggerated. The living
to himself, and with so cruel a past, has greatly increased the old dreaminess that we always
tried to combat, and he seems less able than before to turn his mind into any channel but the
one immediately before him. He is most loving when roused, but infinitely more inclined to
fall off into a muse. I am afraid you must have had a troublesome charge in him, judging by
the uproar Harry makes about the difficulty of getting him safe from Paddington. It is good
to see him and Harry together--the old schoolboy ways are so renewed, all bitterness so entirely
forgotten, only Harry rages a little that he is not more wrapped up in Rose. To say the truth,
so do I; but if it were not for Harry's feeling the same, I should believe that you had taught
me to be exacting about my rosebud. Partly, it is that he is disappointed that she is not like
her mother; he had made up his mind to another Lucy, and her Williams face took him by surprise,
and, partly, he is not a man to adapt himself to a child. She must be trained to help unobtrusively
in his occupations; the unknowing little plaything her mother was, she never can be. I am afraid
he will never adapt himself to English life again--his soul seems to be in his mines, and if
as you say he is happy and valued there--though it is folly to look forward to the wrench again,
instead of rejoicing in the present, gladness; but often as I had fashioned that arrival in
my fancy, it was never that Harry's voice, not yours, should say the 'Here he is.'

"They all went this morning in the waggonette, and the two boys with Miss Curtis in the carriage.
Lady Temple is very kind in coming in and out to enliven me. I am afraid I must close and send
this before their return. What a day it is! And how are you passing it? I fear, even at the
best, in much anxiety. Lady Temple asks to put in a line.--Yours ever,                    
E. W."

                                                 "August 3d, 5 P. M.

"My Dear Colonel,--This is just to tell you that dear Ermine is very well, and bearing the
excitement and suspense wonderfully. We were all dreadfully shocked to hear about poor dear
Bessie; it is so sad her having no mother nor any one but Rachel to take care of her, though
Rachel would do her best, I know. If she would like to have me, or if you think I could do
any good, pray telegraph for me the instant you get this letter. I would have come this morning,
only I thought, perhaps, she had her aunt. That stupid telegram never said whether her baby
was alive, or what it was, I do hope it is all right. I should like to send nurse up at once--I
always thought she saved little Cyril when he was so ill. Pray send for nurse or me, or anything
I can send: anyway, I know nobody can be such a comfort as you; but the only thing there is
to wish about you is, that you could be in two places at once.

"The two boys are gone in to the trial, they were very eager about it; and dear Grace promises
to take care of Conrade's throat. Poor boys! they had got up a triumphal arch for your return,
but I am afraid I am telling secrets. Dear Ermine is so good and resolutely composed--quite
an example.--Yours affectionately,

                                                 "F. G. Temple."

                                                 "Avoncester,
                                                  August 3d, 2 P. M.

"My Dear Colonel Keith,--I am just come out of court, and I am to wait at the inn, for Aunt
Ailie does not like for me to hear the trial, but she says I may write to you to pass away
the time. I am sorry I left my letter out to go this morning, for Aunt Ailie says it is very
undutiful to say anything about the sheep's wool in Russia smelling of tobacco. Conrade says
it is all smoking, and that every one does it who has seen the world. Papa never stops smoking
but when he is with Aunt Ermine, he sat on the box and did it all the way to Avoncester, and
Mr. Beechum said it was to compose his mind. After we got to Avoncester we had a long, long
time to wait, and first one was called, and then another, and then they wanted me. I was not
nearly so frightened as I was that time when you sent for me, though there were so many more
people; but it was daylight, and the judge looked so kind, and the lawyer spoke so gently to
me, and Mr. Maddox did not look horrid like that first time. I think he must be sorry now he
has seen how much he has hurt papa. The lawyer asked me all about the noises, and the lions,
and the letters of light, just as Mr. Grey did; and they showed me papa's old seal ring, and
asked if I knew it, and a seal that was made with the new one that he got when the other was
lost! and I knew them because I used to make impressions on my arms with them when I was a
little girl. There was another lawyer that asked how old I was, and why I had not told before;
and I thought he was going to laugh at me for a silly little girl, but the judge would not
let him, and said I was a clear-headed little maiden; and Mr. Beechum came with Aunt Ailie,
and took me out of court, and told me to choose anything in the whole world he should give
me, so I chose the little writing case I am writing with now, and 'The Heroes' besides, so
I shall be able to read till the others come back, and we go home.--Your affectionate little
friend,

                                              "Rose Ermine Williams."

                                              "The Homestead,
                                               August 3d, 9 P. M.

"My Dear Alexander,--You made me promise to send you the full account of this day's proceedings,
or I do not think I should attempt it, when you may be so sadly engaged. Indeed, I should hardly
have gone to Avoncester had the sad intelligence reached me before I had set out, when I thought
my sudden return would be a greater alarm to my mother, and I knew that dear Fanny would do
all she could for her. Still she has had a very nervous day, thinking constantly of your dear
sister, and of Rachel's alarm and inexperience; but her unlimited confidence in your care of
Rachel is some comfort, and I am hoping that the alarm may have subsided, and you may be all
rejoicing. I have always thought that, with dear Rachel, some new event or sensation would
most efface the terrible memories of last spring. My mother is now taking her evening nap,
and I am using the time for telling you of the day's doings. I took with me Fanny's two eldest,
who were very good and manageable, and we met Mr. Grey, who put us in very good places, and
told us the case was just coming on. You will see the report in detail in the paper, so I will
only try to give you what you would not find there. I should tell you that Maddox has entirely
dropped his alias. Mr. Grey is convinced that was only a bold stroke to gain time and prevent
the committal, so as to be able to escape, and that he 'reckoned upon bullying a dense old
country magistrate;' but that he knew it was quite untenable before a body of unexceptionable
witnesses. Altogether the man looked greatly altered and crest-fallen, and there was a meanness
and vulgarity in his appearance that made me wonder at our ever having credited his account
of himself. He had an abject look, very unlike his confident manner at the sessions, nor did
he attempt his own defence. Mr. Grey kept on saying he must know that he had not a leg to stand
upon.

"The counsel for the prosecution told the whole story, and it was very touching. I had never
known the whole before; the sisters are so resolute and uncomplaining: but how they must have
suffered when every one thought them ruined by their brother's fraud! I grieve to think how
we neglected them, and only noticed them when it suited our convenience. Then he called Mr.
Beechum, and you will understand better than I can all about the concern in which they were
embarked, and Maddox coming to him for an advance of £300, giving him a note from Mr. Williams,
asking for it to carry out an invention. The order for the sum was put into Maddox's hands,
and the banker proved the paying it to him by an order on a German bank.

"Then came Mr. Williams. I had seen him for a moment in setting out, and was struck with his
strange, lost, dreamy look. There is something very haggard and mournful in his countenance;
and, though he has naturally the same fine features as his eldest sister, his cheeks are hollow,
his eyes almost glassy, and his beard, which is longer than the Colonel's, very grey. He gave
me the notion of the wreck of a man, stunned and crushed, and never thoroughly alive again;
but when he stood in the witness-box, face to face with the traitor, he was very different;
he lifted up his head, his eyes brightened, his voice became clear, and his language terse
and concentrated, so that I could believe in his having been the very able man he was described
to be. I am sure Maddox must have quailed under his glance, there was something so loftily
innocent in it, yet so wistful, as much as to say, 'how could you abuse my perfect confidence?'
Mr. Williams denied having received the money, written the letter, or even thought of making
the request. They showed him the impression of two seals. He said one was made with a seal-ring
given him by Colonel Keith, and lost some time before he went abroad; the other, with one with
which he had replaced it, and which he produced,--he had always worn it on his finger. They
matched exactly with the impressions; and there was a little difference in the hair of the
head upon the seal that was evident to every one. It amused the boys extremely to see some
of the old jurymen peering at them with their glasses. He was asked where he was on the 7th
of September (the date of the letter), and he referred to some notes of his own, which enabled
him to state that on the 6th he had come back to Prague from a village with a horrible Bohemian
name--all cs and zs--which I will not attempt to write, though much depended on the number
of the said letters.

"The rest of the examination must have been very distressing, for Maddox's counsel pushed him
hard about his reasons for not returning to defend himself, and he was obliged to tell how
ill his wife was, and how terrified; and they endeavoured to make that into an admission that
he thought himself liable. They tried him with bits of the handwriting, and he could not always
tell which were his own;--but I think every one must have been struck with his honourable scrupulosity
in explaining every doubt he had.

"Other people were called in about the writing, but Alison Williams was the clearest of all.
She was never puzzled by any scrap they showed her, and, moreover, she told of Maddox having
sent for her brother's address, and her having copied it from a letter of Mrs. Williams's,
which she produced, with the wrong spelling, just as it was in the forgery. The next day had
come a letter from the brother, which she showed, saying that they were going to leave the
place sooner than they had intended, and spelling it right. She gave the same account of the
seals, and nothing ever seemed to disconcert her. My boys were so much excited about their
'own Miss Williams,' that I was quite afraid they would explode into a cheer.

"That poor woman whom we used to call Mrs. Rawlins told her sad story next. She is much worn
and subdued, and Mr. Grey was struck with the change from the fierce excitement she showed
when she was first confronted with Maddox, after her own trial; but she held fast to the same
evidence, giving it not resentfully, but sadly and firmly, as if she felt it to be her duty.
She, as you know, explained how Maddox had obtained access to Mr. Williams's private papers,
and how she had, afterwards, found in his possession the seal ring, and the scraps of paper
in his patron's writing. A policeman produced them, and the seal perfectly filled the wax upon
the forged letter. The bits of paper showed that Maddox had been practising imitating Mr. Williams's
writing. It all seemed most distinct, but still there was some sharp cross-examination of her
on her own part in the matter, and Mr. Grey said it was well that little Rose could so exactly
confirm the facts she mentioned.

"Poor, dear little Rose looked very sweet and innocent, and not so much frightened as at her
first examination. She told her story of the savage way in which she had been frightened into
silence. Half the people in the court were crying, and I am sure it was a mercy that she was
not driven out of her senses, or even murdered that night. It seems that she was sent to bed
early, but the wretches knowing that she always woke and talked while her mother was going
to bed, the phosphoric letters were prepared to frighten her, and detain her in her room, and
then Maddox growled at her when she tried to pass the door. She was asked how she knew the
growl to be Maddox's, and she answered that she heard him cough. Rachel will, I am sure, remember
the sound of that little dry cough. Nothing could make it clearer than that the woman had spoken
the truth. The child identified the two seals with great readiness, and then was sent back
to the inn that she might not be perplexed with hearing the defence. This, of course, was very
trying to us all, since the best the counsel could do for his client was to try to pick holes
in the evidence, and make the most of the general acquiescence in Mr. Williams's guilt for
all these years. He brought forward letters that showed that Mr. Williams had been very sanguine
about the project, and had written about the possibility that an advance might be needed. Some
of the letters, which both Mr. Williams and his sister owned to be in his own writing, spoke
in most flourishing terms of his plans; and it was proved by documents and witnesses that the
affairs were in such a state that bankruptcy was inevitable, so that there was every motive
for securing a sum to live upon. It was very miserable all the time this was going on, the
whole interpretation, of Mr. Williams's conduct seemed to be so cruelly twisted aside, and
it was what every one had all along believed, his absence was made so much of, and all these
little circumstances that had seemed so important were held so cheap--one knew it was only
the counsel's representation, and yet Alison grew whiter and whiter under it. I wish you could
have heard the reply: drawing the picture of the student's absorption and generous confidence,
and his agent's treachery, creeping into his household, and brutally playing on the terrors
of his child.

"Well, I cannot tell you all, but the judge summed up strongly for a conviction, though he
said a good deal about culpable negligence almost inviting fraud, and I fear it must have been
very distressing to the Williamses, but the end was that Maddox was found guilty, and sentenced
to fourteen years' penal servitude, though I am afraid they will not follow Conrade's suggestion,
and chain up a lion by his bed every night of his life.

"We were very happy when we met at the inn, and all shook hands. Dr. Long was, I think, the
least at ease. He had come in case this indictment had in any way failed, to bring his own
matter forward, so that Maddox should not get off. I do not like him very much, he seemed unable
to be really hearty, and I think he must have once been harsh and now ashamed of it. Then he
was displeased at Colonel Keith's absence, and could hardly conceal how much he was put out
by the cause, as if he thought the Colonel had imposed himself on the family as next heir.
I hardly know how to send all this in the present state of things, but I believe you will wish
to have it, and will judge how much Rachel will bear to hear. Good night.--Your affectionate
Sister,

                                                 "Grace Curtis."

                                                 "Gowanbrae,
                                                  Avonmouth,
                                                  August 3d, 11 P. M.

"Dear Keith,--Before this day has ended you must have a few lines from the man whom your exertions
have relieved from a stigma, the full misery of which I only know by the comfort of its removal.
I told you there was much that could never be restored. I feel this all the more in the presence
of all that now remains to me, but I did not know how much could still be given back. The oppression
of the load of suspicion under which I laboured now seems to me to have been intolerable since
I have been freed from it. I cannot describe how changed a man I have felt, since Beechum shook
hands with me. The full blackness of Maddox's treachery I had not known, far less his cruelty
to my child. Had I been aware of all I could not have refrained from trying to bring him to
justice; but there is no need to enter into the past. It is enough that I owe to you a freed
spirit, and new life, and that my gratitude is not lessened by the knowledge that something
besides friendship urged you. Ermine is indeed as attractive as ever, and has improved in health
far more than I durst expect. I suppose it is your all-powerful influence. You are first with
all here, as you well deserve, even my child, who is as lovely and intelligent as you told
me, has every thought pervaded with 'the Colonel.' She is a sweet creature; but there was one
who will never be retraced, and forgive me, Keith, without her, even triumph must be bitterness.--Still
ever most gratefully yours,

                                                 "Edward Williams."

                                                 "August 3d, 11 P. M.

"Dearest Colin,--The one sound in my ears, the one song in my heart is, 'Let them give thanks.'
It is as if we had passed from a dungeon into sunshine. I suppose it would be too much if you
were here to share it. They sent Rose in first to tell me, but I knew in the sound of their
wheels that all was well. What an evening we have had, but I must not write more. Ailie is
watching me like a dragon, and will not rest till I am in bed; but I can't tell how to lose
one minute of gladness in sleep. Oh, Colin, Colin, truest of all true knights, what an achievement
yours has been!"

                                                 "August 4th.

"That was a crazy bit that I wrote last night, but I will not make away with it. I don't care
how crazy you think me. It would have been a pity not to have slept to wake to the knowledge
that all was not a dream, but then came the contrast with the sorrow you are watching. And
I have just had your letter. What a sudden close to that joyous life! She was one of the most
winning beings, as you truly say, that ever flashed across one's course, and if she had faults,
they were those of her day and her training. I suppose, by what you say, that she was too girlish
to be all the companion your brother required, and that this may account for his being more
shocked than sorrow-stricken, and his child, since he can dwell on the thought, is such a new
beginning of hope, that I wonder less than you do at his bearing up so well. Besides, pain
dulls the feelings, and is a great occupation. I wish you could have seen that dear Bessie,
but I gather that the end came on much more rapidly than had been expected. It seemed as if
she were one of those to whom even suffering was strangely lightened and shortened, as if she
had met only the flowers of life, and even the thorns and stings were almost lost in their
bright blossoms. And she could hardly have lived on without much either of temptation or sorrow.
I am glad of your testimony to Rachel's effectiveness, I wrote it out and sent it up to the
Homestead. There was a note this morning requesting Edward to come in to see Maddox, and Ailie
is gone with him, thinking she may get leave to see poor Maria. Think of writing 'Edward and
Ailie again! Dr. Long and Harry are gone with them. The broken thread is better pieced by Harry
than by the Doctor; but he wants Ailie and me to go and stay at Belfast. Now I must hear Rose
read, in order to bring both her and myself to our reasonable senses."

                                                 "5 P. M.

"They have been returned about an hour, and I must try to give you Edward's account of his
interview. Maddox has quite dropped his mask, and seems to have been really touched by being
brought into contact with Edward again, and, now it is all up with him, seemed to take a kind
of pleasure in explaining the whole web, almost, Edward said, with vanity at his own ingenuity.
His earlier history was as he used to represent it to Edward. He was a respectable ironmonger's
son, with a taste for art; he was not allowed to indulge it, and then came rebellion, and breaking
away from home. He studied at the Academy for a few years, but wanted application, and fancied
he had begun too late, tried many things and spent a shifty life, but never was consciously
dishonest till after he had fallen in with Edward; and the large sums left uninquired for in
his hands became a temptation to one already inclined to gambling. His own difficulties drove
him on, and before he ventured on the grand stroke, he had been in a course of using the sums
in his hands for his own purposes. The finding poor Maria open to the admiration he gave her
beauty, put it into his head to make a tool of her; and this was not the first time he had
used Edward's seal, or imitated his writing. No wonder there was such a confusion in the accounts
as told so much against Edward. He told the particulars, Edward says, with the strangest mixture
of remorse and exultation. At last came the journey to Bohemia, and his frauds became the more
easy, until he saw there must be a bankruptcy, and made the last bold stroke, investing the
money abroad in his own name, so that he would have been ready to escape if Edward had come
home again. He never expected but that Edward would have returned, and finding the affairs
hopeless, did this deed in order to have a resource. As to regret, he seemed to feel some when
he said the effects had gone farther than he anticipated; but 'I could not let him get into
that subject,' Edward said, and he soon came back to his amused complacency in his complete
hoodwinking of all concerned at home, almost thanking Edward for the facilities his absence
had given him. After this, he went abroad, taking Maria lest she should betray him on being
cast off; and they lived in such style at German gambling places that destitution brought them
back again to England, where he could better play the lecturer, and the artist in search of
subscriptions. Edward could not help smiling over some of his good stories, rather as 'the
lord' may have 'commended the wisdom of his unjust steward.' Well, here he came, and, as he
said, he really could hardly have helped himself; he had only to stand still and let poor Rachel
deceive herself, and the whole concern was in a manner thrust upon him. He was always expecting
to be able to get the main sum into his hands, as he obtained more confidence from Rachel,
and the woodcuts were an over-bold stroke for the purpose; he had not intended her to keep
or show them, but her ready credulity tempted him too far; and I cannot help laughing now at
poor Edward's reproofs to us for having been all so easily cheated, now that he has been admitted
behind the scenes. Maddox never suspected our neighbourhood, he had imagined us to be still
in London, and though he heard Alison's name, he did not connect it with us. After all, what
you thought would have been fatal to your hopes of tracing him, was really what gave him into
our hands--Lady Temple's sudden descent upon their F. U. E. E. If he had not been so hurried
and distressed as to be forced to leave Maria and the poor child to her fate, Maria would have
held by him to the last and without her testimony where should we have been? But with a summons
out against him, and hearing that Maria had been recognised, he could only fly to the place
at Bristol that he thought unknown to Maria. Even when seized by the police, he did not know
it was she who directed them, and had not expected her evidence till he actually saw and heard
her on the night of the sessions. It was all Colonel Keith's doing, he said, every other adversary
he would have despised, but your array of forces met him at every corner where he hoped to
escape, and the dear little Rosie gave him check-mate, like a gallant little knight's pawn
as she is. 'Who could have guessed that child would have such a confounded memory?' he said,
for Edward had listened with a sort of interest that had made him quite forget that he was
Rose's father, and that this wicked cunning Colonel was working in his cause. So off he goes
to penal servitude, and Edward is so much impressed and touched with his sharpness as to predict
that he will be the model prisoner before long, if he do not make his escape. As to poor Maria,
that was a much more sad meeting, though perhaps less really melancholy, for there can be no
doubt that she repents entirely, she speaks of every one as being very good to her, and indeed
the old influences only needed revival, they had never quite died out. Even that poor child's
name was given for love of Ailie, and the perception of having been used to bring about her
master's ruin had always preyed upon her, and further embittered her temper. The barbarity
seemed like a dream in connexion with her, but, as she told Ailie, when she once began something
came over her, and she could not help striking harder. It reminded me of horrible stories of
the Hathertons' usage of animals. Enough of this. I believe the Sisterhood will find a safe
shelter for her when her imprisonment is over, and that temptation will not again be put in
her way. We should never have trusted her in poor dear Lucy's household. Rose calls for the
letters. Good bye, dearest Colin and conqueror. I know all this will cheer you, for it is your
own doing. I can't stop saying so, it is such a pleasant sound--Your own,

                                                 "E. W."

CHAPTER XXVIII. VANITY OF VANITIES.

"Unfaith in aught is want of faith in all."
                                      TENNYSON.

The funeral was very quiet. By Colonel Keith's considerate arrangement the attendants met at
Timber End, so that the stillness of the Parsonage was not invaded, a measure the more expedient,
as Alick was suffering from a return of his old enemy, intermitting fever, and only was able
to leave his room in time to join the procession.

Many were present, for poor Bessie had been a general favourite, and her untimely fate had
stirred up feelings that had created her into a saint upon earth; but there was no one whose
token of respect she would have more esteemed than Colonel Hammond's, who in all the bustle
of the remove to Edinburgh had found time to come to Bishopsworthy to do honour to the daughter
of his old commanding officer. A flush of gratitude came over Alick's pale face when he became
aware of his colonel's presence, and when the choristers' hymn had pealed low and sweetly over
the tranquil meadows, and the mourners had turned away, Alick paused at the Parsonage gate
to hold out his hand, and bring in this one guest to hear how near to Bessie's heart the father's
Highland regiment had been in all the wanderings of her last moments.

The visit was prolonged for nearly an hour, while recollections of Alick's parents were talked
over, and Rachel thought him more cheered and gratified than by any other tribute that had
been paid to his sister. He was promised an extension of leave, if it were required on account
of Lord Keith's state, though under protest that he would have the aguish fever as long as
he remained overlooking the water meadows, and did not put himself under Dr. M'Vicar. Through
these meadows Colonel Hammond meant to walk back to the station, and Alick and Rachel conducted
him far enough to put him into the right path, and in going back again, they could not but
go towards the stile leading to that corner of the churchyard where the sexton had finished
his work, and smoothed the sods over that new grave.

Some one was standing at the foot--not the sexton--but a young man bending as with an intolerable
load of grief. Rachel saw him first, when Alick was helping her down the step, and her start
of dismay made him turn and look round. His brow contracted, and she clutched his arm with
an involuntary cry of, "Oh, don't," but he, with a gesture that at once awed and tranquillized
her, unclasped her hold and put her back, while he stepped forward.

She could hear every word, though his voice was low and deep with emotion. "Carleton, if I
have ever been harsh or unjust in my dealings towards you, I am sorry for it. We have both
had the saddest of all lessons. May we both take it as we ought."

He wrung the surprised and unwilling hand, and before the youth, startled and overcome, had
recovered enough to attempt a reply, he had come back to Rachel, resumed her arm, and crossed
the churchyard, still shivering and trembling with the agitation, and the force he had put
on himself. Rachel neither could nor durst speak; she only squeezed his hand, and when he had
shut himself up in his own room, she could not help repairing to his uncle, and telling him
the whole. Mr. Clare's "God bless you, my boy," had double meaning in it that night.

Not long after, Alick told Rachel of his having met poor young Carleton in the meadows, pretending
to occupy himself with his fishing-rod, but too wretched to do anything. And in a short time
Mrs. Carleton again called to pour out to Mrs. Keith her warm thanks to the Captain, for having
roused her son from his moody, unmanageable despair, and made him consent to accept a situation
in a new field of labour, in a spirit of manful duty that he had never evinced before.

This was a grave and subdued, but not wholly mournful, period at Bishopsworthy--a time very
precious to Rachel in the retrospect--though there was much to render it anxious. Alick continued
to suffer from recurrences of the fever, not very severe in themselves after the first two
or three, but laying him prostrate with shivering and headache every third day, and telling
heavily on his strength and looks when he called himself well. On these good days he was always
at Timber End, where his services were much needed. Lord Keith liked and esteemed him as a
sensible prudent young man, and his qualities as a first-rate nurse were of great assistance
to the Colonel. Lord Keith's illness was tedious and painful, the necessity of a dangerous
operation became increasingly manifest, but the progress towards such a crisis was slow and
the pain and discomfort great; the patient never moved beyond his dressing-room, and needed
incessant attention to support his spirits and assist his endeavours to occupy himself. It
was impossible to leave him for long together, and Colonel Keith was never set at liberty for
exercise or rest except when Alick came to his assistance, and fortunately this young brother-in-law
was an especial favourite, partly from Lord Keith's esteem for his prudence partly from his
experience in this especial species of suffering. At any rate the days of Alick's enforced
absence were always times of greater restlessness and uneasiness at Timber End.

Meantime Rachel was constantly thrown with Mr. Clare, supplying Alick's place to him, and living
in a round of duties that suited her well, details of parish work, walking with, writing for,
and reading to Mr Clare, and reaping much benefit from intercourse with such a mind. Many of
her errors had chiefly arisen from the want of some one whose superiority she could feel, and
her old presumptions withered up to nothing when she measured her own powers with those of
a highly educated man, while all the time he gave her thanks and credit for all she had effected,
but such as taught her humility by very force of infection.

Working in earnest at his visitation sermon, she was drawn up into the real principles and
bearings of the controversy, and Mr. Clare failed not to give full time and patience to pick
out all her difficulties, removing scruples at troubling him, by declaring that it was good
for his own purpose to unwind every tangle even if he did not use every thread. It was wonderful
how many puzzles were absolutely intangible, not even tangled threads, but a sort of nebulous
matter that dispersed itself on investigation. And after all, unwilling as she would have been
to own it, a woman's tone of thought is commonly moulded by the masculine intellect, which,
under one form or another, becomes the master of her soul. Those opinions, once made her own,
may be acted and improved upon, often carried to lengths never thought of by their inspirer,
or held with noble constancy and perseverance even when he himself may have fallen from them,
but from some living medium they are almost always adopted, and thus, happily for herself,
a woman's efforts at scepticism are but blind faith in her chosen leader, or, at the utmost,
in the spirit of the age. And Rachel having been more than usually removed from the immediate
influence of superior man, had been affected by the more feeble and distant power, a leading
that appeared to her the light of her independent mind; but it was not in the nature of things
that, from her husband and his uncle, her character should not receive that tincture for which
it had so long waited, strong and thorough in proportion to her nature, not rapid in receiving
impressions, but steadfast and uncompromising in retaining and working on them when once accepted,
a nature that Alick Keith had discerned and valued amid its worst errors far more than mere
attractiveness, of which his sister had perhaps made him weary and distrustful. Nor, indeed,
under the force of the present influences, was attractiveness wanting, and she suited Alick's
peculiarities far better than many a more charming person would have done, and his uncle, knowing
her only by her clear mellow voice, her consideration, helpfulness, and desire to think and
do rightly, never understood the doubtful amazement now and then expressed in talking of Alick's
choice. One great bond between Rachel and Mr. Clare was affection for the little babe, who
continued to be Rachel's special charge, and was a great deal dearer to her already than all
the seven Temples put together. She studied all the books on infant management that she could
obtain, constantly listened for his voice, and filled her letters to her mother with questions
and details on his health, and descriptions of his small person. Alick was amused whenever
he glanced at his strong-minded woman's correspondence, and now and then used to divert himself
with rousing her into emphatic declarations of her preference of this delicate little being
to "great, stout, coarse creatures that people call fine children." In fact, Alick's sensitive
tenderness towards his sister's motherless child took the form of avoiding the sight of it,
and being ironical when it was discussed; but with Mr. Clare, Rachel was sure of sympathy,
ever since the afternoon when he had said how the sounds upstairs reminded him of his own little
daughter; and sitting under the yew-tree, he had told Rachel all the long stored-up memories
of the little life that had been closed a few days after he had first heard himself called
papa by the baby lips. He had described all these events calmly, and not without smiles, and
had said how his own blindness had made him feel thankful that he had safely laid his little
Una on her mother's bosom under the church's shade; but when Rachel spoke of this conversation
to her husband, she learnt that it was the first time that he had ever talked of those buried
hopes. He had often spoken of his wife, but though always fond of children, few who had not
read little Una's name beneath her mother's cross, knew that he was a childless father. And
yet it was beautiful to see the pleasure he took in the touch of Bessie's infant, and how skilfully
and tenderly he would hold it, so that Rachel in full faith averred that the little Alexander
was never so happy as with him. The chief alarms came from Mrs Comyn Menteith, who used to
descend on the Rectory like a whirlwind, when the Colonel had politely expelled her from her
father's room at Timber End. Possessed with the idea of Rachel's being very dull at Bishopsworthy,
she sedulously enlivened her with melancholy prognostics as to the life, limbs, and senses
of the young heir, who would never live, poor little darling, even with the utmost care of
herself and her nurse, and it was very perverse of papa and the doctors still to keep him from
her--poor little darling--not that it mattered, for he was certain not to thrive, wherever
he was, and the Gowanbrae family would end with Uncle Colin and the glassblower's daughter;
a disaster on which she met with such condolence from Alick (N. B. the next heir) that Rachel
was once reduced to the depths of genuine despair by the conviction that his opinion of his
nephew's life was equally desponding; and another time was very angry with him for not defending
Ermine's gentility. She had not entirely learnt what Alick's assent might mean.

Once, when Mrs. Menteith had been besetting her father with entreaties for the keys of Lady
Keith's private possessions, she was decisively silenced, and the next day these same keys
were given to Alick, with a request that his wife would as soon as possible look over and take
to herself all that had belonged to his sister, except a few heirloom jewels that must return
to Scotland. Alick demurred greatly, but the old man would not brook contradiction, and Rachel
was very unwillingly despatched upon the mission on one of Alick's days of prostration at home.
His absence was the most consoling part of this sad day's work. Any way it could not be otherwise
than piteous to dismantle what had been lately so bright and luxurious, and the contrast of
the present state of things with that in which these dainty new wedding presents had been brought
together, could not but give many a pang; but beside this, there was a more than ordinary impression
of "vanity of vanities, all is vanity," very painful to affection that was striving to lose
the conviction that it had been a self-indulgent, plausible life. The accumulation of expensive
trinkets and small luxuries, was as surprising as perplexing to a person of Rachel's severely
simple and practical tastes. It was not only since the marriage; for Bessie had always had
at her disposal means rather ample, and had used them not exactly foolishly, but evidently
for her own gratification. Everything had some intrinsic worth, and was tasteful or useful,
but the multitude was perfectly amazing, and the constant echo in Rachel's ears was, "he heapeth
up riches and cannot tell who shall gather them." Lord Keith could hardly have found an executrix
for his poor young wife, to whom her properties would have done so little harm. Rachel set
many aside for the cousins, and for Mrs. Menteith, others she tried to persuade the Colonel
to call Gowanbrae belongings, and failing in this, she hoped through Grace, to smuggle some
of them into his Gowanbrae; but when all was done, there was a mass of things that Lord Keith
never wished to see again, and that seemed to Rachel to consist of more ornaments than she
could ever wear, and more knick-knacks than a captain's wife could ever carry about with her.

She was putting aside the various packets of letters and papers to be looked over more at leisure,
when the Colonel knocked at the morning-room door, and told her that his brother would like
to see her, when her work was done. "But first," he said, "I must ask you to be kind enough
to look over some of these papers, and try to find receipts for some of those bills."

"Here they are," said Rachel, "I was going to look them over at home."

"If you have time to examine them here with me," said Colonel Keith, gently, "I think it might
save Alick some pain and vexation."

Rachel was entirely unaware of his meaning, and supposed he only thought of the mere thrilling
of the recent wound; but when he sat down and took a long account out of a tradesman's envelope,
a chill of dismay came over her, followed by a glow of hope as she recollected a possible explanation:
"Have these wretched tradesmen been sending in bills over again at such a time as this?" she
exclaimed.

"I should be very glad to find their receipts," returned the Colonel.

They opened the most business-like looking bundles, all of them, though neatly kept, really
in hopeless confusion. In vain was the search, and notes came forth which rendered it but too
plain that there had been a considerable amount of debt even before the marriage, and that
she had made partial payments and promises of clearing all off gradually, but that her new
expenses were still growing upon her, and the few payments "on account," since she had been
Lady Keith, by no means tallied with the amount of new purchases and orders. No one had suspected
her money matters of being in disorder, and Rachel was very slow to comprehend; her simple,
country life had made her utterly unaware of the difficulties and ways and means of a young
lady of fashion. Even the direct evidence before her eyes would not at first persuade her that
it was not "all those wicked tradesmen;" she had always heard that fashionable shops were not
to be trusted.

"I am afraid," said Colonel Keith, "that the whole can scarcely be shifted on the tradesmen.
I fear poor Bessie was scarcely free from blame in this matter."

"Not paying! Going on in debt! Oh she could not have meant it;" said Rachel, still too much
astonished to understand. "Of course one hears of gay, thoughtless people doing such things,
but Bessie--who had so much thought and sense. It must be a mistake! Can't you go and speak
to the people?"

"It is very sad and painful to make such discoveries," said Colonel Keith; "but I am afraid
such things are not uncommon in the set she was too much thrown amongst."

"But she knew so well--she was so superior; and with Alick and her uncle to keep her above
them," said Rachel; "I cannot think she could have done such things."

"I could not think, but I see it was so," said Colonel Keith, gravely. "As I am obliged to
understand these things, she must have greatly exceeded her means, and have used much cleverness
and ingenuity in keeping the tradesmen quiet, and preventing all from coming to light."

"How miserable! I can't fancy living in such a predicament."

"I am much afraid," added the Colonel, looking over the papers, "that it explains the marriage--and
then Keith did not allow her as much as she expected."

"Oh, Colonel Keith, don't!" cried Rachel; "it is just the one thing where I could not bear
to believe Alick. She was so dear and beautiful, and spoke so rightly."

"To believe Alick!" repeated the Colonel, as Rachel's voice broke down.

"I thought--I ought not to have thought--he was hard upon her--but he knew better," said Rachel,
"of course he did not know of all this dreadful business!"

"Assuredly not," said the Colonel, "that is self-evident, but as you say, I am afraid he did
know his poor sister's character better than we did, when he came to warn me against the marriage."

"Did he? Oh how much it must have cost him."

"I am afraid I did not make it cost him less. I thought he judged her harshly, and that his
illness had made him magnify trifles, but though our interference would have been perfectly
useless, he was quite right in his warning. Now that, poor thing, she is no longer here to
enchant us with her witcheries, I see that my brother greatly suffered from being kept away
from home, and detained in this place, and that she left him far more alone than she ought
to have done."

"Yes, Alick thought so, but she had such good reasons, I am sure she believed them herself."

"If she had not believed them, she could not have had such perfect sincerity of manner," said
the Colonel; "she must have persuaded at least one half of herself that she was acting for
every one's good except her own."

"And Mr. Clare, whom Alick always thought she neglected, never felt it. Alick says he was too
unselfish to claim attention."

"I never doubted her for one moment till I came home, on that unhappy day, and found how ill
Keith was. I did think then, that considering how much she had seen of Alick while the splinters
were working out, she ought to have known better than to talk of sciatica; but she made me
quite believe in her extreme anxiety, and that she was only going out because it was necessary
for her to take care of you on your first appearance. How bright she looked, and how little
I thought I should never see her again!"

"Oh, she meant what she said! She always was kind to me! Most kind!" repeated Rachel; "so considerate
about all the dreadful spring--not one word did she say to vex me about the past! I am sure
she did go out on that day as much to shelter me as for anything else. I can't bear to think
all this--here in this pretty room that she had such pleasure in; where she made me so welcome,
after all my disagreeableness and foolishness."

The Colonel could almost have said, "Better such foolishness than such wisdom, such repulsion
than such attraction." He was much struck by Rachel's distress, and the absence of all female
spite and triumph, made him understand Ermine's defence of her as really large-minded and generous.

"It is a very sad moment to be undeceived," he said; "one would rather have one's faults come
to light in one's life than afterwards." It was almost more than Rachel could bear, sitting
in the midst of the hoards, for which poor Bessie had sold herself. She rose up, with a sob
of oppressive grief, and broke out, "Oh! at least it is a comfort that Alick was really the
kindest and rightest! Only too right! but you can settle all this without him," she added imploringly;
"need he know of this? I can't bear that he should."

"Nor I," said Colonel Keith, "it was the reason that I am glad you are here alone."

"Oh, thank you! No one need ever know," added Rachel.

"I fear my brother must see the accounts, as they have to be paid, but that need not be immediately."

"Is there anything else that is dreadful?" said Rachel, looking at the remaining papers, as
if they were a nest of adders. "I don't like to take them home now, if they will grieve Alick."

"You need not be afraid of that packet," said the Colonel; "I see his father's handwriting.
They look like his letters from India."

Rachel looked into one or two, and her face lighted up. "Oh!" she exclaimed, "this is enough
to make up for all. This is his letter to tell about Alick's wound. Oh how beautifully he speaks
of him," and Rachel, with no voice to read, handed the thin paper to her companion, that he
might see the full commendation, that had been wrung from the reserved father's heart by his
son's extremity.

"You must be prepared to hear that all is over," wrote the father to his daughter; "in fact,
I doubt whether he can live till morning, though M'Vicar declares that nothing vital has been
touched. Be it as it may, the boy has been in all respects, even more than I dared to wish,
and the comfort he has been ever since he came out to me has been unspeakable. We must not
grudge him such a soldier's death after his joyous life. But for you, my poor girl, I could
only wish the same for myself to-morrow. You will, at least, if you lose a brother's care,
have a memory of him, to which to live up. The thought of such a dead brother will be more
to you than many a living one can ever be to a sister."

Rachel's heart beat high, and her eyes were full of tears of exultation. And the Colonel was
well pleased to compensate for all the pain he had inflicted by giving her all the details
he could recollect of her husband's short campaign. They had become excellent friends over
their mournful work, and were sorry to have their tete-a-tete interrupted when a message was
brought that his Lordship was ready, if Mrs. Keith would be so good as to come into his sitting-room.

She wiped away the tears, and awe-struck and grave, followed the Colonel; a great contrast
to Lord Keith's more frequent lady-visitor, as she silently received the polished greeting,
its peculiar stateliness of courtesy, enhanced by the feeble state of the shattered old man,
unable to rise from his pillowed chair, and his face deeply lined by suffering. He would not
let her give him any account of her labours, nor refer any question to him, he only entreated
that everything might be taken away, and that he might hear nothing about it. He spoke warmly
of Alick's kindness and attention, and showed much solicitude about his indisposition, and
at last he inquired for Rachel's "little charge," hoping he was not clamorous or obnoxious
to her, or to Mr. Clare's household. Her eager description of his charms provoked a look of
interest and a sad smile, followed by a request, that weather and doctor permitting, she would
bring the child to be seen for a few minutes. The next day there was an appointment, at which
both the Colonel and Alick were wanted, but on the following one, the carriage should be sent
to bring her and the little one to Timber End.

The effect of this invitation amused Alick. The first thing he heard in the morning was a decided
announcement from Rachel that she must go up to London to procure equipments for the baby to
be presented in!

"You know I can't go with you to-day."

"Of course, but I must make him fit to be seen. You know he has been wearing little Una's things
all this time, and that will not do out of the nursery."

"A superior woman ought to know that his Lordship will never find out what his son has on."

"Then it is all the more reason that I should not let the poor dear little fellow go about
wrapped up in somebody's old shawl!"

"What will you do then--take your maid?"

"Certainly not. I can't have him left."

"Then take him with you?"

"What, Alick, a little unvaccinated baby! Where have you ever lived! I don't see the least
reason why I should not go alone."

"You need not begin beating about the world yet, Rachel. How many times did you say you had
been in London?"

"Three; once with my father when I was a child, once in the time of the Great Exhibition, and
passing through it now with you. But any one of common sense can manage."

"If you will wait till five o'clock I will come with you," said Alick, wearily.

"No, indeed, I had rather not go, than that you should, you are quite tired out enough at the
end of the day."

"Then do not go."

"Alick, why will you have no proper feeling for that poor dear child!" said Rachel with tears
in her eyes.

If he winced he did not show it. "My proper feeling takes the direction of my wife," he said.

"You don't really mean to forbid me to go," she exclaimed.

"I don't mean it, for I do so, unless you find some one to go with you."

It was the first real collision that had taken place, but Alick's quiet, almost languid tone
had an absolute determination in it from the very absence of argument, and Rachel, though extremely
annoyed, felt the uselessness of battling the point. She paused for a few moments, then said
with an effort, "May I take the housekeeper?"

"Yes, certainly," and then he added some advice about taking a brougham, and thus lightened
her heart; so that she presently said humbly,

"Have I been self-willed and overbearing, Alick?"

He laughed. "Not at all; you have persevered just where you ought. I dare say this is all more
essential than shows on the surface. And," he added, with a shaken voice, "if you were not
myself, Rachel, you know how I should thank you for caring for my poor Bessie's child." He
was gone almost as he spoke the words, but Rachel still felt the kiss and the hot tears that
had fallen on her face.

Mr. Clare readily consented to spare his housekeeper, but the housekeeper was untoward, she
was "busied in her housewife skep," and would not stir. Alick was gone to Timber End, and Rachel
was just talking of getting the schoolmaster's wife as an escort, when Mr. Clare said--

"Pray are you above accepting my services?"

"You! Oh, uncle; thank you, but--"

"What were your orders? Anybody with you, was it not? I flatter myself that I have some body,
at least."

"If Alick will not think I ought not!"

"The boy will not presume to object to what I do with you."

"I do wish it very much," said candid Rachel.

"Of course you do, my dear. Alick is not cured of a young man's notion that babies are a sort
of puppies. He is quite right not to let you run about London by yourself, but he will be quite
satisfied if you find eyes and I find discretion."

"But is it not very troublesome to you?"

"It is a capital lark!" said Mr. Clare, with a zest that only the slang word could imply, removing
all Rachel's scruples, and in effect Mr. Clare did enjoy the spice of adventure in a most amusing
way. He knew perfectly well how to manage, laid out the plan of operations, gave orders to
the driver, went into all the shops, and was an effective assistant in the choice of material
and even of embroidery. His touch and ear seemed to do more for him than many men's eyes do
for them; he heard odd scraps of conversation and retailed them with so much character; he
had such pleasant colloquies with all in whose way he fell, and so thoroughly enjoyed the flow
and babble of the full stream of life, that Rachel marvelled that the seclusion of his parsonage
was bearable to him. He took her to lunch with an old friend, a lady who had devoted herself
to the care of poor girls to be trained as servants, and Rachel had the first real sight of
one of the many great and good works set on foot by personal and direct labour.

"If I had been sensible, I might have come to something like this!" she said.

"Do you wish to undo these last three months?"

"No; I am not fit to be anything but an ordinary married woman, with an Alick to take care
of me; but I am glad some people can be what I meant to be."

"And you need not regret not being useful now," said Mr. Clare. "Where should any of us be
without you?"

It had not occurred to Rachel, but she was certainly of far more positive use in the world
at the present moment than ever she had bean in her most assuming maiden days.

Little Alexander was arrayed in all that could enhance his baby dignity, and Rachel was more
than ever resolved to assert his superiority over "great frightful fine children," resenting
vehemently an innocent observation from Alick, that the small features and white skin promised
sandiness of hair. Perhaps Alick delighted in saying such things for the sake of proving the
"very womanhood" of his Clever Woman. Rachel hung back, afraid of the presentation, and would
have sent her maid into the room with the child if Colonel Keith had not taken her in himself.
Even yet she was not dexterous in handling the baby, her hands were both occupied, and her
attention absorbed, and she could not speak, she felt it so mournful to show this frail motherless
creature to a father more like its grandfather, and already almost on the verge of the grave.
She came up to Lord Keith, and held the child to him in silence. He said, "Thank you," and
kissed not only the little one, but her own brow, and she kept the tears back with difficulty.

Colonel Keith gave her a chair and footstool, and she sat with the baby on her lap, while very
few words were spoken. It was the Colonel who asked her to take off the hood that hid the head
and brow, and who chiefly hazarded opinions as to likeness and colour of eyes. Lord Keith looked
earnestly and sadly, but hardly made any observation, except that it looked healthier than
he had been led to expect. He was sure it owed much to Mrs. Keith's great care and kindness.

Rachel feared he would not be able to part with his little son, and began to mention the arrangements
she had contemplated in case he wished to keep the child at Timber End. On this, Lord Keith
asked with some anxiety, if its presence were inconvenient to Mr. Clare; and being assured
of the contrary, said, "Then while you are so kind as to watch over him, I much prefer that
things should remain in their present state, than to bring him to a house like this. You do
not object?"

"Oh, no; I am so glad. I was only dreading the losing him. I thought Mrs. Menteith wished for
him when he is old enough to travel."

"Colin!" said Lord Keith, looking up sharply, "will nothing make the Menteiths understand that
I would rather put out the child to nurse in a Highland hut than in that Babel of a nursery
of theirs?"

Colin smiled and said, "Isabel does not easily accept an answer she dislikes."

"But remember, both of you," continued Lord Keith, "that happen what may, this poor child is
not to be in her charge. I've seen enough of her children left alone in perambulators in the
sun. You will be in Edinburgh?" he added, turning to Rachel.

"Yes, when Alick's leave ends."

"I shall return thither when this matter is over, I know I shall be better at home in Scotland,
and if I winter in Edinburgh, may be we could make some arrangement for his being still under
your eye."

Rachel went home more elevated than she had been for months past.

CHAPTER XXIX. AT LAST.

 "I bid thee hail, not as in former days,
  Not as my chosen only, but my bride,
  My very bride, coming to make my house
  A glorious temple."          A. H. HALLAM.

                                                  "Timber End,
                                                   Littleworthy,
                                                   September 10th.

"Dear Miss Williams,--I must begin by entreating your forgiveness for addressing you in a manner
for which perhaps you may be unprepared; but I trust you have always been aware, that any objections
that I may have offered to my brother Colin's attachment to yourself have never been personal,
or owing to anything but an unfortunate complication of circumstances. These difficulties are,
as no doubt he will explain to you, in great measure removed by the present condition of my
family, which will enable me to make such settlements as I could wish in the ease of one so
nearly connected with me; so that I am enabled to entreat of you at length to reward the persevering
constancy so well deserved. I have a further, and a personal cause for wishing that the event
should not be deferred, as regard for my feelings might have led you to propose. You are aware
of the present state of my health, and that it has become expedient to make immediate arrangements
for the future guardianship of my little boy. His uncles are of course his natural guardians,
and I have unbounded confidence in both; but Alexander Keith's profession renders it probable
that he may not always be at hand, and I am therefore desirous of being able to nominate yourself,
together with my brother, among the personal guardians. Indeed, I understand from Alexander
Keith, that such was the express wish of his sister. I mention this as an additional motive
to induce you to consent. For my own part, even without so stringent a cause, all that I have
ever seen or known of yourself would inspire me with the desire that you should take a mother's
place towards my son. But you must be aware that such an appointment could only be made when
you are already one of the family, and this it is that leads me to entreat you to overlook
any appearance of precipitancy on my brother's part, and return a favourable reply to the request,
which with my complete sanction, he is about to address to you.

"Yes, Ermine Williams, forgive all that is past, and feel for an old, it may be, a dying man,
and for a motherless infant. There is much to forget, but I trust to your overcoming any scruples,
and giving me all the comfort in your power, in thinking of the poor child who has come into
the world under such melancholy circumstances.

                                               "Yours most truly,

                                               "Keith of Gowanbrae"

"Poor Keith, he has given me his letter open, his real anxiety has been too much at last for
his dignity; and now, my Ermine, what do you say to his entreaty? The state of the case is
this. How soon this abscess may be ready for the operation is still uncertain, the surgeons
think it will be in about three weeks, and in this interval he wishes to complete all his arrangements.
In plain English, his strongest desire is to secure the poor little boy from falling into Menteith's
hands. Now, mine is a precarious life, and Alick and Rachel may of course be at the ends of
the earth, so the point is that you shall be 'one of the family,' before the will is signed.
Alick's leave has been extended to the 1st of October, no more is possible, and he undertakes
to nurse poor Keith for a fortnight from to-morrow, if you will consent to fulfil this same
request within that time. After the 1st, I should have to leave you, but as soon as Keith is
well enough to bear the journey, he wishes to return to Edinburgh, where he would be kindly
attended to by Alick and Rachel all the winter. There, Ermine, your victory is come, your consent
has been entreated at last by my brother, not for my sake, but as a personal favour to himself,
because there is no woman in the world of whom he thinks so highly. For myself I say little.
I grieve that you should be thus hurried and fluttered, and if Ailie thinks it would harm you,
she must telegraph back to me not to come down, and I will try to teach myself patience by
preaching it to Keith, but otherwise you will see me by four o'clock to-morrow. Every time
I hear Rachel's name, I think it ought to have been yours, and surely in this fourteenth year,
lesser objections may give way. But persuasions are out of the question, you must be entirely
led by your own feeling. If I could have seen you in July, this should not have come so suddenly
at last. "Yours, more than ever, decide as you may,

                                                  "Colin A Keith.

"P. S.--I am afraid Rose would hardly answer this purpose equally well."

Colonel Keith followed his letter at four o'clock, and entering his own study, found it in
a cloud of smoke, in the midst of which he dimly discerned a long beard and thin visage absorbed
in calculation.

"Edward! How is Ermine?"

"Oh?" (inquiringly) "Keith!" (as taken by surprise) "ah! you were to come home to-day. How
are you?"

"How is she? Has she had my letter?"

"What letter? You write every day, I thought."

"The letter of yesterday. Have you heard nothing of it?"

"Not that I know of. Look here, Keith, I told you I was sure the platinum--"

"Your brain is becoming platinum. I must go," and the chemist remained with merely a general
impression of having been interrupted.

Next the Colonel met Rose, watching at his own gate, and this time his answer was more explicit.

"Yes, Aunt Ermine said you were coming, and that I might meet you, but that I must let you
come in alone, for she had not seen you so long, that she wanted you all to herself."

"And how is she; how has she been?"

"She is well now," said Rose, in the grave, grown-up way she always assumed when speaking of
her aunt's health; "but she has been having a good deal of her nervous headache this summer,
and Lady Temple wanted her to see Mr. Frampton, but Aunt Ailie said it was only excitement
and wear of spirits. Oh, I am glad you have come back! We have so wearied after you."

Nevertheless Rose duteously loosed the hand to which she had been clinging till they came to
the door; and as Colin Keith opened it, again he was met by the welcoming glances of the bright
eyes. This time he did not pause till he was close to her, and kneeling on one knee beside
her, he put his arm round her, and held her hands in his.

The first words that passed were, "You had the letters?"

"Colin, Colin, my one prayer has been, 'Make Thy way plain before my face.'"

"And now it is?"

"The suspicion is gone; the displeasure is gone; the doubts are gone; and now there is nothing--nothing
but the lameness and the poverty; and if you like the old cinder, Colin, that is your concern;"
and she hid her face, with a sort of sobbing laugh.

"And even the haste; you consent to that?"

"I don't feel it like haste," she said, looking up with a smile, and then crimsoning.

"And Ailie gives leave, and thinks the hurry will not harm you?"

"Ailie! O Colin, did you think I could tell any one of your letter, before you had had your
answer?"

"Then Edward is not so moonstruck as I thought him! And when shall it be, dearest? Give me
as much time as you can. I must go back this day fortnight."

"I suppose your expectations are not high in the matter of finery," said Ermine, with a certain
archness of voice.

"Those eyes are all the finery I ever see."

"Then if you will not be scandalized at my natural Sunday dress, I don't see why this day week
should not do as well as any other time."

"Ermine, you are the only woman I ever met totally free from nonsense."

"Take care, it is very unfeminine and disagreeable to be devoid of nonsense."

"Very, and therefore you are talking it now! Ermine, how shall I thank you? Not only for the
sake of the ease of mind to my poor brother; but in the scenes we are going through, a drop
of happiness is wanted as a stimulant. When I looked at the young couple at Bishopsworthy,
I often felt as if another half-year of suspense was more than I could bear, and that I must
ask you to help me through with at least a definite hope."

"Ah! you have gone through a great deal I am sure it has been a time of great trouble."

"Indeed it has. The suffering has become unceasing and often most severe, and there is grievous
depression of spirits; I could not have left him even for a day, if he had not been so fervently
bent on this."

"Is he feeling his loss more acutely than at first?"

"Not so much that, as for the poor little boy, who is a heavy burthen on his mind. He has lived
in such a state of shrewd distrust that he has no power of confidence, and his complications
for making all the boy's guardians check one another till we come to a dead lock, and to make
provision for Isabel out of Menteith's reach, are enough to distract the brain of a man in health."

"Is he fond of the child?"

"It is an oppressive care to him, and he only once has made up his mind to see it, though it
is never off his mind, and it is very curious how from the first he has been resolved on your
taking charge of it. It is the most real testimony he could give you."

"It is very comfortable not to be brought in like an enemy in spite of him, as even a year
ago I could have been proud to do."

"And I to have brought you," he answered, "but it is far better as it is. He is very cordial,
and wants to give up the Auchinvar estate to me; indeed, he told me that he always meant me
to have it as soon as I had washed my hands of you--you wicked syren--but I think you will
agree with me that he had better leave it to his daughter Mary, who has nothing. We never reckoned
on it."

"Nor on anything else," said Ermine, smiling.

"You have never heard my ways and means," he said, "and as a prudent woman you ought, you know.
See," taking out his tablets, "here is my calculation."

"All that!"

"On the staff in India there were good opportunities of saving; then out of that sum I bought
the house, and with my half-pay, our income will be very fair, and there would be a pension
afterwards for you. This seems to me all we can reasonably want."

"Unless I became like 'die Ilsebill' in the German tale. After four years of living from hand
to mouth, this will be like untold gold. To wish to be above strict economy in wheeled chairs
has seemed like perilous discontent in Rose and me."

"I have ventured on the extravagance of taking the ponies and little carriage off my brother's
hands, it is low enough for you, and I shall teach Rose to ride one of the ponies with me."

"The dear little Rose! But, Colin, there is a dreadful whisper about her going with her father,
and Ailie too! You see now his character is cleared, he has been offered a really lucrative
post, so that he could have them with him."

"Does he wish it?"

"I dare not ask. I must be passive or I shall be selfish. You are all my world, and Edward
has no one. Make them settle it without me. Talk of something else! Tell me how your brother
is to be taken care of."

"There cannot be a better nurse than Alick Keith; and Ferguson, the agent, is there, getting
directions from Keith whenever he can bear it. I am best out of the way of all that. I have
said once for all that I will do anything for them except live at Gowanbrae, and I am sick
of demonstrating that the poor child's existence is the greatest possible relief to me; and
I hope now not to go back till the whole is settled and done with."

"You look regularly worn out with the discussions!"

"It was an endless business! The only refreshment was in now and then getting over to Bishopsworthy."

"What? to Rachel?" said Ermine archly.

"Rachel is showing to great advantage. I did not think it was in her to be so devoted to the
child, and it is beautiful to see her and Mr. Clare together."

"There's a triumph," said Ermine, smiling. "Do you grant that the happy medium is reached,
that Alick should learn to open his eyes and Rachel to shut hers?"

"Well! Her eyes are better, but he, poor lad, has been in no spirits to open his very wide.
The loss of his sister went very deep, and those aguish attacks, though they become much slighter,
make him look wretchedly ill. I should have doubted about leaving him in charge in his present
state, but that he was urgent on me, and he is spared all the night nursing. Any way, I must
not leave him longer than I can help. I may have one week with you at home--at our home, Ermine."

"And let us make the most of that," said Ermine, quickly.

Meanwhile Alison, sore and sick at heart, wandered on the esplanade, foreboding that the blow
was coming that she ought to rejoice at, if her love could only be more unselfish. At last
the Colonel joined her, and, as usual, his tone of consideration cheered and supported her
when in actual conference with him, and as he explained his plans, he added that he hoped there
would be scarcely any interruption to her intercourse with her sister.

"You know," she said abruptly, "that we could go to Ekaterinburg."

"And what is your feeling about it? Remember, Ailie, that I am your brother too." And as she
hesitated, "your feelings--no doubt you are in many minds!"

"Ah, yes; I never settled anything without Ermine, and she will not help me now. And she has
been so worn with the excitement and anxiety of all this long detention of yours, that I don't
dare to say a word that could prey on her."

"In fact, you would chiefly be decided by Edward's own wishes."

"If I were sure of them," sighed poor Alison; "but he lives on experiments, and can hardly
detach himself from them even to attend to Ermine herself. I don't know whether we should be
a comfort or a burthen, and he would be afraid to hurt our feelings by telling the truth. I
have been longing to consult you who have seen him at that place in Russia."

"And indeed, Ailie, he is so wedded to smoke and calculations, and so averse to this sublunary
world, that though your being with him might be beneficial, still I greatly question whether
the risk of carrying poor little Rose to so remote a place in such a climate, would be desirable.
If he were pining to have a home made for him, it would be worth doing; as it is, the sacrifice
would be disproportioned."

"It would be no sacrifice if he only wanted us."

"Where you are wanted is here. Ermine wants you. I want you. The Temples want you."

"Now, Colin, tell me truly. Edward feels as I do, and Dr. Long spoke seriously of it. Will
not my present position do you and Ermine harm among your friends?"

"With no friend we wish to make or keep!"

"If I do remain," continued Alison, "it must be as I am. I would not live upon you, even if
you asked me, which you have too much sense to do; and though dear Lady Temple is everything
to me, and wants me to forget that I am her governess, that would be a mere shuffle, but if
it is best for you that I should give it up, and go out, say so at once."

"Best for me to have eight Temples thrown on my hands, all in despair! To have you at Myrtlewood
is an infinite relief to me, both on their account and Ermine's. You should not suspect a penniless
Scotsman of such airs, Ailie."

"Not you, Colin, but your family."

"Isabel Menteith thinks a glass-blower was your father, and Mauleverer your brother, so yours
is by far the most respectable profession. No, indeed, my family might be thankful to have
any one in it who could do as you have done."

Alison's scruples were thus disposed of, and when Edward's brain cleared itself from platinum,
he showed himself satisfied with the decision, though he insisted on henceforth sending home
a sum sufficient for his daughter's expenses, and once said something that could be construed
into a hope of spending a quiet old age with her and his sister; but at present he was manifestly
out of his element, and was bent on returning to Ekaterinburg immediately after the marriage.

His presence was but a qualified pleasure. Naturally shy and absent, his broken spirits and
removal from domestic life, and from society, had exaggerated his peculiarities; and under
the pressure of misfortune, caused in a great measure by his own negligence, he had completely
given way, without a particle of his sister's patience or buoyancy, and had merely striven
to drown his troubles in engrossing problems of his favourite pursuit, till the habit of abstraction
had become too confirmed to be shaken off. When the blot on his name was removed, he was indeed
sensible that he was no longer an exile, but he could not resume his old standing, friendships
rudely severed could not be re-united; his absorption had grown by indulgence; old interests
had passed away; needful conformity to social habits was irksome, and even his foreign manner
and appearance testified to his entire unfitness for English life.

Tibbie was in constant dread of his burning the house down, so incalculable and preposterous
were his hours, and the Colonel, longing to render the house a perfect shrine for his bride,
found it hard to tolerate the fumes with which her brother saturated it. If he had been sure
that opium formed no portion of Edward's solace, his counsel to Alison would have been less
decisive. To poor little Rose, her father was an abiding perplexity and distress; she wanted
to love him, and felt it absolute naughtiness to be constantly disappointed by his insensibility
to her approaches, or else repelled and disgusted by that vice of the Russian sheep. And a
vague hint of being transported to the Ural mountains, away from Aunt Ermine, had haunted her
of late more dreadfully than even the lions of old; so that the relief was ineffable when her
dear Colonel confided to her that she was to be his niece and Aunt Ermine's handmaid, sent
her to consult with Tibbie on her new apartment, and invited Augustus to the most eligible
hole in the garden. The grotto that Rose, Conrade, and Francis proceeded to erect with pebbles
and shells, was likely to prove as alarming to that respectable reptile as a model cottage
to an Irish peasant.

Ermine had dropped all scruples about Rose's intercourse with other children, and the feeling
that she might associate with them on equal terms, perhaps, was the most complete assurance
of Edward's restoration. She was glad that companionship should render the little maiden more
active and childlike, for Edward's abstraction had made her believe that there might be danger
in indulging the dreaminess of the imaginative child.

No one welcomed the removal of these restraints more warmly than Lady Temple. She was perhaps
the happiest of the happy, for with her there was no drawback, no sorrow, no parting to fear.
Her first impulse, when Colonel Keith came to tell her his plans, was to seize on hat and shawl,
and rush down to Mackarel Lane to kiss Ermine with all her heart, and tell her that "it was
the most delightful thing of her to have consented at last, for nobody deserved so well to
be happy as that dear Colonel;" and then she clung to Alison, declaring that now she should
have her all to herself, and if she would only come to Myrtlewood, she would do her very best
to make her comfortable there, and it should be her home--her home always.

"In fact," said Ermine, afterwards to the Colonel, "when you go to Avoncester, I think you
may as well get a licence for the wedding of Alison Williams and Fanny Temple at the same time.
There has been quite a courtship on the lady's part."

The courtship had been the more ardent from Fanny's alarm lest the brother should deprive her
of Alison; and when she found her fears groundless, she thanked him with such fervour, and
talked so eagerly of his sister's excellences that she roused him into a lucid interval, in
which he told Colonel Keith that Lady Temple might give him an idea of the style of woman that
Lucy had been. Indeed, Colin began to think that it was as well that he was so well wrapped
up in smoke and chemistry, otherwise another might have been added to the list of Lady Temple's
hopeless adorers. The person least satisfied was Tibbie, who could not get over the speediness
of the marriage, nor forgive the injury to Miss Williams, "of bringing her hame like any pleughman's
wife, wantin' a honeymoon trip, forbye providin' hersel' with weddin' braws conformable. Gin
folk tak' sic daft notions aff the English, they'd be mair wise like to bide at hame, an' that's
my way o' thinkin'."

Crusty as she was, there was no danger of her not giving her warmest welcome, and thus the
morning came. Tibbie had donned her cap, with white satin ribbons, and made of lace once belonging
to the only heiress who had ever brought wealth to the Keiths. Edward Williams, all his goods
packed up, had gone to join his sisters, and the Colonel, only perceptibly differing from his
daily aspect in having a hat free from crape, was opening all the windows in hopes that a thorough
draft would remove the last of the tobacco, when the letters were brought in, and among them
one of the black bordered bulletins from Littleworthy, which ordinarily arrived by the second
post. It was a hurried note, evidently dashed off to catch the morning mail.

My Dear Colonel,--Alick tells me to write in haste to catch the morning
post, and beg you to telegraph the instant your wedding is over. The
doctors see cause to hasten their measures, but your brother will have
nothing done till the will is signed. He and Alick both desire you will
not come, but it is getting to be far too much for Alick. I would tell
you more if there were time before the post goes. Love to dear Ermine.
                                              Very sincerely yours,
                                                           R. KEITH.

There was so shocked and startled a look on Colin's face, that Tibbie believed that his brother
must be dead, and when in a few almost inaudible words he told her that he must start for Bishopsworthy
by the afternoon train, she fairly began to scold, partly by way of working off the irritation
left by her alarm. "The lad's clean demented! Heard ye ever the like, to rin awa' frae his
new-made wife afore the blessin's been weel spoke; an' a' for the whimsie of that daft English
lassie that made siccan a piece of work wi' her cantrips."

"I am afraid she is right now," said the Colonel, "and my brother must not be left any longer."

"Hout awa, Maister Colin, his lordship has come between you and your luve oft enough already,
without partin' ye at the very church door. Ye would na have the English cast up to us, that
one of your name did na ken better what was fittin by his bride!"

"My bride must be the judge, Tibbie. You shall see whether she bids me stay," said Colin, a
little restored by his amusement at her anxiety for his honour among the English. "Now desire
Smith to meet me at the church door, and ride at once from thence to Avoncester; and get your
face ready to give a cheerful welcome, Tibbie. Let her have that, at least, whatever may come
after."

Tibbie looked after him, and shook her head, understanding from her ain laddie's pallid check,
and resolute lip, nay, in the very sound of his footfall, how sore was his trial, and with
one-sided compassion she muttered, "Telegrafted awa on his vera weddin' day. His Lordship'll
be the death o' them baith before he's done."

As it was in every way desirable that the wedding should be unexpected by Avonmonth in general,
it was to take place at the close of the ordinary morning service, and Ermine in her usual
seat within the vestry, was screened from knowing how late was Colin's entrance, or seeing
the determined composure that would to her eyes have betrayed how much shaken he was. He was
completely himself again by the time the congregation dispersed, leaving only Grace Curtis,
Lady Temple, and the little best man, Conrade, a goodly sight in his grey suit and scarlet
hose. Then came the slow movement from the vestry, the only really bridal-looking figure being
Rose in white muslin and white ribbons; walking timidly and somewhat in awe beside her younger
aunt; while her father upheld and guided the elder. Both were in quiet, soft, dark dresses,
and straw bonnets, but over hers Ermine wore the small though exquisite Brussels lace veil
that had first appeared at her mother's wedding; and thankful joy and peaceful awe looked so
lovely on her noble brow, deep, soft dark eyes, and the more finely moulded, because somewhat
worn, features; and so beauteously deepened was the carnation on her cheek, that Mr. Mitchell
ever after maintained that he had never married any one to compare with that thirty-three years'
old bride upon crutches, and, as he reported to his wife, in no dress at all.

Her brother, who supported her all the time she stood, was infinitely more nervous than she
was. Her native grace and dignity, and absence of all false shame entirely covered her helplessness,
and in her earnestness, she had no room for confusion; her only quivering of voice was caught
for one moment from the tremulous intensity of feeling that Colin Keith could not wholly keep
from thrilling in his tones, as he at last proclaimed his right to love and to cherish her
for whom he had so long persevered.

Unobserved, he filled up the half-written despatch with the same pen with which he signed the
register, and sent Conrade to the door with it to his already mounted messenger. Then assuming
Edward's place as Ermine's supporter, he led her to the door, seated her in her wheeled chair,
and silently handing Rachel's note as his explanation to Alison, he turned away, and walked
alone by Ermine's side to his own house. Still silent, he took her into the bright drawing-room
he had so long planned for her, and seated her in her own peculiar chair. Then his first words
were, "Thank God for this!"

She knew his face. "Colin, your brother is worse?" He bent his head, he could not speak.

"And you have to go to him! This very day?"

"Ermine, you must decide. You are at last my first duty!"

"That means that you know you ought to go. Tell me what it is."

He told the substance of the note, ending with, "If you could come with me!"

"I would if I should not be a tie and hindrance. No, I must not do that; but here I am, Colin,
here I am. And it is all true--it has all come right at last! All we waited for. Nothing has
ever been like this."

She was the stronger. Tears, as much of loving thankfulness as of overflowing disappointment,
rushed into his eyes at such a fulfilment of the purpose that he had carried with him by sea
and land, in battle and sickness, through all the years of his manhood. And withal her one
thought was to infuse in its strongest measure the drop of happiness that was to sustain him
through the scenes that awaited him, to make him feel her indeed his wife, and to brighten
him with the sunbeam face that she knew had power to cheer him. Rallying her playfulness, she
took off her bonnet, and said as she settled her hair, "There, that is being at home! Take
my shawl, yes, and these white gloves, and put them out of sight, that I may not feel like
a visitor, and that you may see how I shall look when you come back. Do you know, I think your
being out of the way will be rather a gain, for there will be a tremendous feminine bustle
with the fitting of our possessions."

Her smile awoke a responsive look, and she began to gaze round and admire, feeling it safest
to skim on the surface; and he could not but be gratified by her appreciation of the pains
spent upon this, her especial home. He had recovered himself again by the time these few sentences
had passed; they discussed the few needful arrangements required by his departure, and Tibbie
presently found them so cheerful that she was quite scandalized, and when Ermine held out her
hands, saying, "What Tibbie, won't you come and kiss me, and wish me joy?" she exclaimed--

"Wish ye joy! It's like me to wish ye joy an yer lad hurled awa frae yer side i' the blink
o' an ee, by thae wild telegrams. I dinna see what joy's to come o't; it's clean again the
Scripture!"

"I told you I had left it to her to decide, Tibbie," said the Colonel.

"Weel, an what wad ye hae the puir leddy say? She kens what sorts ye, when the head of yer
name is sick an lyin' among thae English loons that hae brocht him to siccan a pass."

"Right, Tibbie," exclaimed Ermine, greatly amused at the unexpected turn, purely for the sake
of putting Maister Colin in the wrong. "If a gentleman won't be content without a bride who
can't walk, he must take the consequence, and take his wedding trip by himself! It is my belief,
Tibbie, as I have just been telling him, that you and I shall get the house in all the better
order for having him off our hands, just at first," she added, with a look of intelligence.

"Deed, an maybe we shall," responded Tibbie, with profound satisfaction. "He was aye a camsteary
child when there was any wark on hand."

Colin could not help laughing, and when once this had been effected, Ermine felt that his depression
had been sufficiently met, and that she might venture on deeper, and more serious sympathy,
befitting the chastened, thankful feelings with which they hailed the crowning of their youthful
love, the fulfilment of the hopes and prayers that the one had persisted in through doubt and
change, the other had striven to resign into the All-wise Hands.

They had an early meal together, chiefly for the sake of his wheeling her to the head of his
table, and "seeing how she looked there," and then the inexorable hour was come, and he left
her, with the echo of her last words in his ear, "Goodbye, Colin, stay as long as you ought.
It will make the meeting all the sweeter, and you have your wife to some back to now. Give
a sister's love to your brother, and thanks for having spared you," and his last look at the
door was answered with her sunshiny smile.

But when, a few minutes after, Edward came up with Alison for his farewell, they found her
lying back in her chair, half fainting, and her startled look told almost too plainly that
she had not thought of her brother. "Never mind," said Edward, affectionately, as much to console
Alison as Ermine for this oblivion; "of course it must be so, and I don't deserve otherwise.
Nothing brought me home but Colin Keith's telling me that he saw you would not have him till
my character was cleared up; and now he has repaired so much of the evil I did you, all I can
do is to work to make it up to you in other ways. Goodbye, Ermine, I leave you all in much
better hands than mine ever were, you are right enough in feeling that a week of his absence
outweighs a year of mine. Bless you for all that you and he have done for my child. She, at
least, is a comfort to you."

Ermine's powers were absolutely exhausted; she could only answer him by embraces and tears;
and all the rest of the day she was, to use her own expression, "good for nothing but to be
let alone." Nor, though she exerted herself that she might with truth write that she was well
and happy, was she good for much more on the next, and her jealous guardians allowed her to
see no one but soft, fondling Lady Temple, who insisted on a relationship (through Rachel),
and whose tender pensive quietness could not fail to be refreshment to the strained spirits,
and wearied physical powers, and who better than anybody could talk of the Colonel, nay, who
could understand, and even help Ermine herself to understand, that these ever-welling tears
came from a source by no means akin to grief or repining.

The whole aspect of the rooms was full of tokens of his love and thought for her. The ground-floor
had been altered for her accommodation, the furniture chosen in accordance with her known tastes
or with old memories, all undemonstratively prepared while yet she had not decided on her consent.
And what touched her above all, was the collection of treasures that he had year by year gathered
together for her throughout the weary waiting, purchases at which Lady Temple remembered her
mother's banter, with his quiet evasions of explanation. No wonder Ermine laid her head on
her hand, and could not retain her tears, as she recalled the white, dismayed face of the youth,
who had printed that one sad earliest kiss on her brow, as she lay fire-scathed and apparently
dying; and who had cherished the dream unbroken and unwaveringly, had denied himself consistently,
had garnered up those choice tokens when ignorant over whether she still lived; had relied
on her trust, and come back, heart-whole, to claim and win her, undaunted by her crippled state,
her poverty, and her brother's blotted name. "How can such love ever be met? Why am I favoured
beyond all I could have dared to image to myself?" she thought, and wept again; because, as
she murmured to Fanny, "I do thank God for it with all my heart, and I do long to tell him
all. I don't think my married life ought to begin by being sillier than ever I was before,
but I can't help it."

"And I do love you so much the better for it," said Fanny; a better companion to-day than the
grave, strong Alison, who would have been kind, but would have had to suppress some marvel
at the break-down, and some resentment that Edward had no greater share in it.

The morning's post brought her the first letter from her husband, and in the midst of all her
anxiety as to the contents, she could not but linger a moment on the aspect of the Honourable
Mrs. Colin Keith in his handwriting; there was a carefulness in the penmanship that assured
her that, let him have to tell her what he would, the very inditing of that address had been
enjoyment to him. That the border was black told nothing, but the intelligence was such as
she had been fully prepared for. Colin had arrived to find the surgeon's work over, but the
patient fast sinking. Even his recognition of his brother had been uncertain, and within twenty-four
hours of the morning that had given Colin a home of his own, the last remnant of the home circle
of his childhood had passed from him.

Still Ermine had to continue a widowed bride for full a fortnight, whilst the funeral and subsequent
arrangements necessitated Colin's presence in Scotland. It was on a crisp, beautiful October
evening that Rose, her chestnut hair flying about her brow, stood, lighted up by the sunbeams
in the porch, with upraised face and outstretched hands, and as the Colonel bent down to receive
her joyous embrace, said, "Aunt Ermine gave me leave to bring you to the door. Then I am going
to Myrtlewood till bed-time. And after that I shall always have you."

The open door showed Ermine, too tremulous to trust to her crutch, but leaning forward, her
eyes liquid with tears of thankfulness. The patient spirits had reached their home and haven,
the earthly haven of loving hearts, the likeness of the heavenly haven, and as her head leant,
at last, upon his shoulder, and his guardian arm encircled her, there was such a sense of rest
and calm that even the utterance of their inward thanksgiving, or of a word of tenderness would
have jarred upon them. It was not till a knock and message at the door interrupted them, that
they could break the blessed stillness.

"And there you are, my Ermine!" said Colin, standing on the hearth-rug, and surveying her with
satisfied eyes. "You are a queenly looking dame in your black draperies, and you look really
well, much better than Rachel led me to expect."

"Ah! when she was here I had no fixed day to look forward to. And receiving our poor little
orphan baby was not exactly like receiving his uncle, though Rachel seemed to think it ought
to make up for anything."

"She was thoroughly softened by that child! It was a spirited thing her bringing him down here
on the Monday when we started for Scotland, and then coming all the way alone with her maid.
I did not think Alick would have consented, but he said she would always be the happier for
having deposited her charge in your hands."

"It was a great wrench to her. I felt it like robbery when she put the little fellow down on
my lap and knelt over him, not able to get herself away, but saying that she was not fit to
have him; she could not bear it if she made him hate her as Conrade did! I am glad she has
had his first smile, she deserves it."

"Is Tibbie in charity with him?"

"Oh, more than in charity! She did not take the first announcement of his coming very amiably;
but when I told her she was to reign in the nursery, and take care the poor little chief know
the sound of a Scots' tongue, she began to thaw; and when he came into the house, pity or loyalty,
or both, flamed up hotly, and have quite relieved me; for at first she made a baby of me, and
was a perfect dragon of jealousy at poor Ailie's doing anything for me. It was a rich scene
when Rachel began giving her directions out of 'Hints for the Management of Infants,' just
in the old voice, and Tibbie swept round indignantly, 'His Lordship, Lord Keith of Gowanbrae,
suld hae the best tendance she could gie him. She did na lippen to thae English buiks, as though
she couldna rear a wean without bulk learning.' Poor Rachel nearly cried, and was not half
comforted by my promising to study the book as much as she pleased."

"It will never do to interfere with Tibbie, and I own I am much of her opinion, I had rather
trust to her than to Rachel, or the book!"

"Well, the more Rachel talked book, the more amiable surprise passed between her mother and
Lady Temple that the poor little follow should have lived at all, and I believe they were very
angry with me for thinking her views very sensible. Lady Temple is so happy with him. She says
it is so melancholy to have a house without a baby, that she comes in twice or three times
a day to console herself with this one."

"Did you not tell me that she and the Curtises spent the evening with you?"

"Yes, it was rather shocking to receive them without you, but it was the only way of being
altogether on Rachel's one evening here; and it was very amusing, Mrs. Curtis so happy with
her daughter looking well and bright, and Rachel with so much to tell about Bishopsworthy,
till at last Grace, in her sly odd way, said she thought dear Alexander had even taught Rachel
curatolatry; whereupon Rachel fired up at such an idea being named in connexion with Mr. Clare,
then came suddenly, and very prettily, down, and added, 'Living with Alick and Mr. Clare has
taught me what nonsense I talked in those days.'"

"Well done, Rachel! It proves what Alick always said, that her great characteristic is candour!"

"I hope she was not knocked up by the long night journey all at one stretch. Mrs. Curtis was
very uneasy about it, but nothing would move her; she owned that Alick did not expect her,
for she had taken care he should not object, by saying nothing of her intention, but she was
sure he would be ill on Wednesday morning, and then Mrs. Curtis not only gave in directly,
but all we married women turned upon poor Grace for hinting that Alick might prefer a day's
solitary illness to her being over-tired."

"She was extremely welcome! Alick was quite done for by all he had gone through; he was miserably
ill, and I hardly knew what to do with him, and he mended from the moment his face lightened
up at the sight of her."

"There's the use of strength of mind! How is Alick?"

"Getting better under M'Vicar and Edinburgh winds. It was hard on him to have borne the brunt
of all the nursing that terrible last week, and in fact I never knew how much he was going
through rather than summon me. His sauntering manner always conceals how much he is doing,
and poor Keith was so fond of him, and liked his care so much that almost the whole fell upon
him at last. And I believe he said more that was good for Keith, and brought in Mr. Clare more
than perhaps I should ever have been able to do. So though I must regret having been away,
it may have been the best thing."

"And it was by your brother's earnest wish," said Ermine; "it was not as if you had stayed
away for your own pleasure."

"No! Poor Keith repeatedly said he could not die in peace till he had secured our having the
sole charge of his son. It was a strong instinct that conquered inveterate prejudice! Did I
tell you about the will?"

"You said I should hear particulars when you came."

"The personal guardianship is left to us first, then to Alick and Rachel, with £300 a year
for the expenses. Then we have Auchinvar. The estate is charged with an equivalent settlement
upon Mary, a better plan, which I durst not propose, but with so long a minority the estate
will bear it. Alick has his sister's fortune back again, and the Menteith children a few hundreds;
but Menteith is rabid about the guardianship, and would hardly speak to Alick."

"And you?"

"They always keep the peace with me. Isabel even made us a wedding present--a pair of miniatures
of my father and mother, that I am very glad to rescue, though, as she politely told me, I
was welcome to them, for they were hideously dressed, and she wanted the frames for two sweet
photographs of Garibaldi and the Queen of Naples."

Then looking up as if to find a place for them--

"Why, Ermine, what have you done to the room? It is the old parsonage drawing-room!"

"Did not you mean it, when you took the very proportions of the bay window, and chose just
such a carpet?"

"But what have you done to it?"

"Ailie and Rose, and Lady Temple and her boys, have done it. I have sat looking on, and suggesting.
Old things that we kept packed up have seen the light, and your beautiful Indian curiosities
have found their corners."

"And the room has exactly the old geranium scent!"

"I think the Curtises must have brought half their greenhouse down. Do you remember the old
oak-leaf geranium that you used to gather a leaf of whenever you passed our old conservatory?"

"I have been wondering where the fragrance came from that made the likeness complete. I have
smelt nothing like it since!"

"I said that I wished for one, and Grace got off without a word, and searched everywhere at
Avoncester till she found one in a corner of the Dean's greenhouse. There, now you have a leaf
in your fingers, I think you do feel at home."

"Not quite, Ermine. It still has the dizziness of a dream. I have so often conjured up all
this as a vision, that now there is nothing to take me away from it, I can hardly feel it a
reality."

"Then I shall ring. Tibbie and the poor little Lord upstairs are substantial witnesses to the
cares and troubles of real life."

CHAPTER XXX. WHO IS THE CLEVER WOMAN?

 "Half-grown as yet, a child and vain,
  She cannot fight the fight of death.
  What is she cut from love and faith?"
                    Knowledge and Wisdom, TENNYSON.

It was long before the two Mrs. Keiths met again. Mrs. Curtis and Grace were persuaded to spend
the spring and summer in Scotland, and Alick's leave of absence was felt to be due to Mr. Clare,
and thus it was that the first real family gathering took place on occasion of the opening
of the institution that had grown out of the Burnaby Bargain. This work had cost Colonel Keith
and Mr. Mitchell an infinity of labour and perseverance before even the preliminaries could
be arranged, but they contrived at length to carry it out, and by the fourth spring after the
downfall of the F. U. E. E. a house had been erected for the convalescents, whose wants were
to be attended to by a matron, assisted by a dozen young girls in training for service.

The male convalescents were under the discipline of Sergeant O'Brien and the whole was to be
superintended by Colonel and Mrs. Keith. Ermine undertook to hear a class of the girls two
or three times a week, and lower rooms had been constructed with a special view to her being
wheeled into them, so as to visit the convalescents, and give them her attention and sympathy.
Mary Morris was head girl, most of the others were from Avonmouth, but two pale Londoners came
from Mr. Touchett's district, and a little motherless lassie from the --th Highlanders was
brought down with the nursery establishment, on which Mrs. Alexander Keith now practised the
"Hints on the management of Infants."

May was unusually propitious, and after an orthodox tea-drinking, the new pupils and all the
Sunday-schools were turned out to play on the Homestead slopes, with all the world to look
on at them. It was a warm, brilliant day, of joyous blossom and lively green, and long laughing
streaks of sunlight on the sea, and no one enjoyed it more than did Ermine, as she sat in her
chair delighting in the fresh sweetness of the old thorns, laughing at the freaks of the scampering
groups of children, gaily exchanging pleasant talk with one friend after another, and most
of all with Rachel, who seemed to gravitate back to her whenever any summons had for a time
interrupted their affluence of conversation.

And all the time Ermine's footstool was serving as a table for the various flowers that two
children were constantly gathering in the grass and presenting to her, to Rachel, or to each
other, with a constant stream of not very comprehensible prattle, full of pretty gesticulation
that seemed to make up for the want of distinctness. The yellow-haired, slenderly-made, delicately-featured
boy, whose personal pronouns were just developing, and his consonants very scanty, though the
elder of the two, dutifully and admiringly obeyed the more distinct, though less connected,
utterances of the little dark-eyed girl, eked out by pretty imperious gestures, that seemed
already to enchain the little white-frocked cavalier to her service. All the time it was droll
to see how the two ladies could pay full attention to the children, while going on with their
own unbroken stream of talk.

"I am not overwhelming you," suddenly exclaimed Rachel, checking herself in mid-career about
the mothers' meetings for the soldiers' wives.

"Far from it. Was I inattentive--?"

"Oh no--(Yes, Una dear, very pretty)--but I found myself talking in the voice that always makes
Alick shut his eyes."--"I should not think he often had to do so," said Ermine, much amused
by this gentle remedy--("Mind, Keith, that is a nettle. It will sting--")

"Less often than before," said Rachel--("Never mind the butterfly, Una)--I don't think I have
had more than one thorough fit of what he calls leaping into the gulf. It was about the soldiers'
wives married without leave, who, poor things, are the most miserable creatures in the world;
and when I first found out about them I was in the sort of mood I was in about the lace, and
raved about the system, and was resolved to employ one poor woman, and Alick looked meeker
and meeker, and assented to all I said, as if he was half asleep, and at last he quietly took
up a sheet of paper, and said he must write and sell out, since I was bent on my gulf, and
an officer's wife must be bound by the regulations of the service. I was nearly as bad as ever,
I could have written an article on the injustice of the army regulations, indeed I did begin,
but what do you think the end was? I got a letter from a good lady, who is always looking after
the poor, to thank Mrs. Alexander Keith for the help that had been sent for this poor woman,
to be given as if from the general fund. After that I could not help listening to him, and
then I found it was so impossible to know about character, or to be sure that one was not doing
more harm than--What is it, boys?" as three or four Temples rushed up.

"Aunt Rachel, Mr. Clare is going to teach us a new game, and he says you know it. Pray come."

"Come, Una. What, Keith, will you come too? I'll take care of him, Ermine."

And with a child in each hand, Rachel followed the deputation, and had scarcely disappeared
before the light gracious figure of Rose glanced through the thorn trees. "Aunt Ermine, you
must come nearer; it is so wonderful to see Mr. Clare teaching this game."

"Don't push my chair, my dear; it is much too heavy for you uphill."

"As if I could not drive you anywhere, and here is Conrade coming."

Conrade was in search of the deserter, but he applied himself heartily to the propulsion of
aunt Ermine, informing Rose that Mr. Clare was no end of a man, much better than if he could
see, and aunt Rachel was grown quite jolly.

"I think she has left off her long words," said Rose.

"She is not a civilian now," said Conrade, quite unconscious of Ermine's amusement at his confidences
as he pushed behind her. "I did think it a most benighted thing to marry her, but that's what
it is. Military discipline has made her conformable." Having placed the chair on a spot which
commanded the scene, the boy and girl rushed off to take their part in the sport, leaving Ermine
looking down a steep bank at the huge ring of performers, with linked hands, advancing and
receding to the measure of a chanted verse round a figure in the centre, who made gesticulations,
pursued and caught different individuals in the ring, and put them through a formula which
provoked shouts of mirth. Ermine much enjoyed the sight, it was pretty to watch the 'prononce'
dresses of the parish children, interspersed with the more graceful forms of the little gentry,
and here and there a taller lady. Then Ermine smiled to recognise Alison as usual among her
boys, and Lady Temple's soft greys and whites, and gentle floating movements, as she advanced
and receded with Stephana in one hand, and a shy infant-school child in the other. But Ermine's
eye roamed anxiously, for though Rachel's animated, characteristic gestures were fully discernible,
and her little Una's arch toss of the head marked her out, yet the companion whom she had beguiled
away, and who had become more to Ermine than any other of the frisking little ones of the flock,
was neither with her not with his chief protector, Rose. In a second or two, however, the step
that to her had most "music in't" of all footfalls that ever were trodden, was sounding on
the path that led circuitously up the path, and the Colonel appeared with the little runaway
holding his hand.

"Why, baby, you are soon come away!"

"I did not like it,--sit on mamma's knee," said the little fellow, scrambling to his place
then as one who felt it his own nest and throne.

"He was very soon frightened," said the Colonel; "it was only that little witch Una who could
have deluded him into such a crowd, and, as soon as she saw a bigger boy to beguile, she instantly
deserted Keith, so I relieved Rachel of him."

"See Rachel now; Mr. Clare is interrogating her. How she is making them laugh! I did not think
she could ever have so entered into fun."

"Alick must have made it a part of her education. When the Invalid has time for another essay,
Ermine, it should be on the Benefits of Ridicule."

"Against Clever Womanhood? But then the subject must have Rachel's perfect good humour."

"And the weapon must be in the most delicately skilful hands," added the Colonel. "Properly
wielded, it saves blunting the superior weapon by over-frequent use. Here the success is complete."

"It has been irony rather than ridicule," said Ermine, "though, when he taught her to laugh,
he won half the battle. It is beautiful to see her holding herself back, and most forbearing
where she feels most positive. I am glad to see him looking so much stronger and more substantial.
Where is he?"

"On the further bank, supposed by Mrs. Curtis to be asleep, but watching uncle, wife, and child
through his eyelashes. Did you ever see any one so like his sister as that child?"

"Much more so than this one. I am glad he may one day see such a shadow of his bright-faced
mother."

"You are mother!" said the the little orphan, looking up into Ermine's face with a startled,
wistful look, as having caught more of her meaning than she had intended, and she met his look
with a kiss, the time was not yet come for gainsaying the belief more than in the words, "Yes,
always a mother to you, my precious little man."

"Nor could you have had a bonnier face to look into," added the Colonel. "There, the game breaks
up. We should collect our flock, and get them them back to Les Invalides, as Alick calls it."

"Take care no one else does so," said Ermine, laughing. "It has been a most happy day, and
chief of all the pleasures has been the sight of Rachel just what I hoped, a thorough wife
and mother, all the more so for her being awake to larger interests, and doing common things
better for being the Clever Woman of the family. Where is she? I don't see her now."

Where is she? was asked by more than one of the party, but the next to see her was Alick, who
found her standing at the window of her own room, with her long-robed, two-months' old baby
in her arms. "Tired?" he asked.

"No; I only sent down nurse to drink tea with the other grandees. What a delightful day it
has been! I never hoped that such good fruit would rise out of my unhappy blunders."

"The blunders that brought so much good to me."

"Ah! the old places bring them back again. I have been recollecting how it used to seem to
me the depth of my fall that you were marrying me out of pure pity, without my having the spirit
to resent or prevent it, and now I just like to think how kind and noble it was in you."

"I am glad to hear it! I thought I was so foolishly in love, that I was very glad of any excuse
for pressing it on."

"Are the people dispersing? Where is your uncle?"

"He went home with the Colonel and his wife; he has quite lost his heart to Ermine."

"And Una--did you leave her with Grace?"

"No, she trotted down hand in hand with his little lordship: promising to lead her uncle back."

"My dear Alick, you don't mean that you trust to that?"

"Why, hardly implicitly."

"Is that the way you say so? They may be both over the cliffs. If you will just stay in the
room with baby, I will go down and fetch them up."

Alick very obediently held out his arms for his son, but when Rachel proceeded to take up her
hat, he added, "You have run miles enough to-day. I am going down as soon as my uncle has had
time to pay his visit in peace, without being hunted."

"Does he know that?"

"The Colonel does, which comes to the same thing. Is not this boy just of the age that little
Keith was when you gave him up?"

"Yes; and is it not delightful to see how much larger and heavier he is!"

"Hardly, considering your objections to fine children."

"Oh, that was only to coarse, over-grown ones. Una is really quite as tall as little Keith,
and much more active. You saw he could not play at the game at all, and she was all life and
enjoyment, with no notion of shyness."

"It does not enter into her composition."

"And she speaks much plainer. I never miss a word she says, and I don't understand Keith a
bit, though he tells such long stories."

"How backward!"

"Then she knows all her letters by sight--almost all, and Ermine can never get him to tell
b from d; and you know how she can repeat so many little verses, while he could not even say,
'Thank you, pretty cow,' this morning, when I wanted to hear him."

"Vast interval!"

"It is only eight months; but then Una is such a bright, forward child."

"Highly-developed precocity!"

"Now, Alick, what am I about? Why are you agreeing with me?"

"I am between the horns of a dilemma. Either our young chieftain must be a dunce, or we are
rearing the Clever Woman of the family."

"I hope not!" exclaimed Rachel.

"Indeed? I would not grudge her a superior implement, even if I had sometimes cut my own fingers."

"But, Alick, I really do not think I ever was such a Clever Woman."

"I never thought you one," he quietly returned.

She smiled. This faculty had much changed her countenance. "I see," she said, thoughtfully,
"I had a few intellectual tastes, and liked to think and read, which was supposed to be cleverness;
and my wilfulness made me fancy myself superior in force of character, in a way I could never
have imagined if I had lived more in the world. Contact with really clever people has shown
me that I am slow and unready."

"It was a rusty implement, and you tried weight instead of edge. Now it is infinitely brighter."

"But, Alick," she said, leaving the thought of herself for that of her child, "I believe you
may be right about Una, for," she added in low voice, "she is like the most practically clever
person I ever saw."

"True," he answered gravely, "I see it every day, in every saucy gesture and coaxing smile,
when she tries to turn away displeasure in her naughty fits. I hardly knew how to look on at
her airs with Keith, it was so exactly like the little sister I first knew. Rachel, such cleverness
as that is a far more perilous gift to woman than your plodding intellectuality could ever
be. God grant," he added, with one of the effusions which sometimes broke through his phlegmatic
temperament, "that this little fellow may be a kinder, wiser brother than ever I was, and that
we may bring her up to your own truth and unselfishness. Then such power would be a happy endowment."

"Yes," said Rachel, "may she never be out of your influence, or be left to untrustworthy hands.
I should have been much better if I had had either father or brother to keep me in order. Poor
child, she has a wonderful charm, not all my fancy, Alick. And yet there is one whose real
working talent has been more than that of any of us, who has made it effective for herself
and others, and has let it do her only good, not harm."

"You are right. If we are to show Una how intellect and brilliant power can be no snares, but
only blessings helping the spirits in infirmity and trouble, serving as a real engine for independence
and usefulness, winning love and influence for good, genuine talents in the highest sense of
the word, then commend me to such a Clever Woman of the family as Ermine Keith."