The water of the first sort, on the other hand, should be arrested by every device within our
reach. If the land is steep, the furrows in plowing should be run horizontally along the hill,
to prevent the escape of the water over the surface, and to allow it to descend readily into
the ground. Steep grass lands may have frequent, small, horizontal ditches for the same purpose.
If the soil is at all heavy, it should not, when wet, be trampled by animals, lest it be puddled,
and thus made less absorptive. If in cultivation, the surface should be kept loose and open,
ready to receive all of the rain and irrigation water that reaches it.

In descending through the soil, this water, in summer, gives up heat which it received from
the air and from the heated surface of the ground, and thus raises the temperature of the lower
soil. The fertilizing matters which it has obtained from the air,—carbonic acid, ammonia and
nitric acid,—are extracted from it, and held for the use of growing plants. Its fresh air,
and the air which follows the descent of the water-table, carries oxygen to the organic and
mineral parts of the soil, and hastens the rust and decay by which these are prepared for the
uses of vegetation. The water itself supplies, by means of their power of absorption, the moisture
which is needed by the particles of the soil; and, having performed its work, it goes down
to the level of the water below, and, swelling the tide above the brink of the dam, sets the
drains running, until it is all removed. In its descent through the ground, this water clears
the passages through which it flows, leaving a better channel for the water of future rains,
so that, in time, the heaviest clays, which will drain but imperfectly during the first one
or two years, will pass water, to a depth of four or five feet, almost as readily as the lighter
loams.

Now, imagine the drains to be closed up, leaving no outlet for the water, save at the surface.
This amounts to a raising of the dam to that height, and additions to the water will bring
the water-table even with the top of the soil. No provision being made for the removal of spring
and soakage water, this causes serious inconvenience, and even the rain-fall, finding no room
in the soil for its reception, can only lie upon, or flow over, the surface,—not yielding to
the soil the fertilizing matters which it contains, but, on the contrary, washing away some
of its finer and looser parts. The particles of the soil, instead of being furnished, by absorption,
with a healthful amount of moisture, are made unduly wet; and the spaces between them, being
filled with water, no air can enter, whereby the chemical processes by which the inert minerals,
and the roots and manure, in the soil are prepared for the use of vegetation, are greatly retarded.

Instead of carrying the heat of the air, and of the surface of the ground, to the subsoil,
the rain only adds so much to the amount of water to be evaporated, and increases, by so much,
the chilling effect of evaporation.

Instead of opening the spaces of the soil for the more free passage of water and air, as is
done by descending water, that which ascends by evaporation at the surface brings up soluble
matters, which it leaves at the point where it becomes a vapor, forming a crust that prevents
the free entrance of air at those times when the soil is dry enough to afford it space for
circulation.

Instead of crumbling to the fine condition of a loam, as it does, when well drained, by the
descent of water through it, heavy clay soil, being rapidly dried by evaporation, shrinks into
hard masses, separated by wide cracks.

In short, in wet seasons, on such land, the crops will be greatly lessened, or entirely destroyed,
and in dry seasons, cultivation will always be much more laborious, more hurried, and less
complete, than if it were well drained.

The foregoing general statements, concerning the action of water in drained, and in undrained
land, and of the effects of its removal, by gravitation, and by evaporation, are based on facts
which have been developed by long practice, and on a rational application of well know principles
of science. These facts and principles are worthy of examination, and they are set forth below,
somewhat at length, especially with reference to Absorption and Filtration; Evaporation; Temperature;
Drought; Porosity or Mellowness; and Chemical Action.

ABSORPTION AND FILTRATION.—The process of under-draining is a process of absorption and filtration,
as distinguished from surface-flow and evaporation. The completeness with which the latter
are prevented, and the former promoted, is the measure of the completeness of the improvement.
If water lie on the surface of the ground until evaporated, or if it flow off over the surface,
it will do harm; if it soak away through the soil, it will do good. The rapidity and ease with
which it is absorbed, and, therefore, the extent to which under-draining is successful, depend
on the physical condition of the soil, and on the manner in which its texture is affected by
the drying action of sun and wind, and by the downward passage of water through it.

In drying, all soils, except pure sands, shrink, and occupy less space than when they are saturated
with water. They shrink more or less, according to their composition, as will be seen by the
following table of results obtained in the experiments of Schuebler:

1,000 Parts of   Will Contract   1,000 Parts of   Will Contract
                 Parts.                           Parts.
Strong Limey     50.             Pure Clay        183.
Soil
Heavy Loam       60.             Peat             200.
Brick Maker’s    85.
Clay

Professor Johnson estimates that peat and heavy clay shrink one-fifth of their bulk.

If soil be dried suddenly, from a condition of extreme wetness, it will be divided into large
masses, or clods, separated by wide cracks. A subsequent wetting of the clods, which is not
sufficient to expand it to its former condition, will not entirely obliterate the cracks, and
the next drying will be followed by new fissures within the clods themselves; and a frequent
repetition of this process will make the network of fissures finer and finer, until the whole
mass of the soil is divided to a pulverulent condition. This is the process which follows the
complete draining of such lands as contain large proportions of clay or of peat. It is retarded,
in proportion to the amount of the free water in the soil which is evaporated from the surface,
and in proportion to the trampling of the ground, when very wet. It is greatly facilitated
by frost, and especially by deep frost.

The fissures which are formed by this process are, in time, occupied by the roots of plants,
which remain and decay, when the crop has been removed, and which prevent the soil from ever
again closing on itself so completely as before their penetration; and each season’s crop adds
new roots to make the separation more complete and more universal; but it is only after the
water of saturation, which occupies the lower soil for so large a part of the year, has been
removed by draining, that roots can penetrate to any considerable depth, and, in fact, the
cracking of undrained soils, in drying, never extends beyond the separation into large masses,
because each heavy rain, by saturating the soil and expanding it to its full capacity, entirely
obliterates the cracks and forms a solid mass, in which the operation has to be commenced anew
with the next drying.

Mr. Gisborne, in his capital essay on "Agricultural Drainage," which appeared in the Quarterly
Review, No. CLXXI, says: "We really thought that no one was so ignorant as not to be aware
that clay lands always shrink and crack with drought, and the stiffer the clay the greater
the shrinking, as brickmakers well know. In the great drought, 36 years ago, we saw in a very
retentive soil in the Vale of Belvoir, cracks which it was not very pleasant to ride among.
This very summer, on land which, with reference to this very subject, the owner stated to be
impervious, we put a walking stick three feet into a sun-crack, without finding a bottom, and
the whole surface was what Mr. Parkes, not inappropriately, calls a network of cracks. When
heavy rain comes upon a soil in this state, of course the cracks fill, the clay imbibes the
water, expands, and the cracks are abolished. But if there are four or five feet parallel drains
in the land, the water passes at once into them and is carried off. In fact, when heavy rain
falls upon clay lands in this cracked state, it passes off too quickly, without adequate filtration.
Into the fissures of the undrained soil the roots only penetrate to be perished by the cold
and wet of the succeeding winter; but in the drained soil the roots follow the threads of vegetable
mold which have been washed into the cracks, and get an abiding tenure. Earth worms follow
either the roots or the mold. Permanent schisms are established in the clay, and its whole
character is changed. An old farmer in a midland county began with 20-inch drains across the
hill, and, without ever reading a word, or, we believe, conversing with any one on the subject,
poked his way, step by step, to four or five feet drains, in the line of steepest descent.
Showing us his drains this spring, he said: ’They do better year by year; the water gets a
habit of coming to them ’—a very correct statement of fact, though not a very philosophical
explanation."

Alderman Mechi, of Tiptree Hall, says: "Filtration may be too sudden, as is well enough shown
by our hot sands and gravels; but I apprehend no one will ever fear rendering strong clays
too porous and manageable. The object of draining is to impart to such soils the mellowness
and dark color of self drained, rich and friable soil. That perfect drainage and cultivation
will do this, is a well known fact. I know it in the case of my own garden. How it does so
I am not chemist enough to explain in detail; but it is evident the effect is produced by the
fibers of the growing crop intersecting every particle of the soil, which they never could
do before draining; these, with their excretions, decompose on removal of the crop, and are
acted on by the alternating air and water, which also decompose and change, in a degree, the
inorganic substances of the soil. Thereby drained land, which was, before, impervious to air
and water, and consequently unavailable to air and roots, to worms, or to vegetable or animal
life, becomes, by drainage, populated by both, and is a great chemical laboratory, as our own
atmosphere is subject to all the changes produced by animated nature."

Experience proves that the descent of water through the soil renders it more porous, so that
it is easier for the water falling afterward to pass down to the drains, but no very satisfactory
reason for this has been presented, beyond that which is connected with the cracking of the
soil. The fact is well stated in the following extract from a letter to the Country Gentleman:

"A simple experiment will convince any farmer that the best means of permanently deepening
and mellowing the soil is by thorough drainage, to afford a ready exit for all surplus moisture.
Let him take in spring, while wet, a quantity of his hardest soil,—such as it is almost impossible
to plow in summer,—such as presents a baked and brick-like character under the influence of
drought,—and place it in a box or barrel, open at the bottom, and frequently during the season
let him saturate it with water. He will find it gradually becoming more and more porous and
friable,—holding water less and less perfectly as the experiment proceeds, and in the end it
will attain a state best suited to the growth of plants from its deep and mellow character."

It is equally a fact that the ascent of water in the soil, together with its evaporation at
the surface, has the effect of making the soil impervious to rains, and of covering the land
with a crust of hard, dry earth, which forms a barrier to the free entrance of air. So far
as the formation of crust is concerned, it is doubtless due to the fact that the water in the
soil holds in solution certain mineral matters, which it deposits at the point of evaporation,
the collection of these finely divided matters serving to completely fill the spaces between
the particles of soil at the surface,—pasting them together, as it were. How far below the
surface this direct action extends, cannot be definitely determined; but the process being
carried on for successive years, accumulating a quantity of these fine particles, each season,
they are, by cultivation, and by the action of heavy showers falling at a time when the soil
is more or less dry, distributed through a certain depth, and ordinarily, in all probability,
are most largely deposited at the top of the subsoil. It is found in practice that the first
foot in depth of retentive soils is more retentive than that which lies below. If this opinion
as to the cause of this greater imperviousness is correct, it will be readily seen how water,
descending to the drains, by carrying these soluble and finer parts downward and distributing
them more equally through the whole, should render the soil more porous.

Another cause of the retention of water by the surface soil, often a very serious one, is the
puddling which clayey lands undergo by working them, or feeding cattle upon them, when they
are wet. This is always injurious. By draining, land is made fit for working much earlier in
the spring, and is sooner ready for pasturing after a rain, but, no matter how thoroughly the
draining has been done, if there is much clay in the soil, the effect of the improvement will
be destroyed by plowing or trampling, while very wet; this impervious condition will be removed
in time, of course, but while it lasts, it places us as completely at the mercy of the weather
as we were before a ditch was dug.

In connection with the use of the word impervious, it should be understood that it is not used
in its strict sense, for no substance which can be wetted by water is really impervious and
the most retentive soil will become wet. Gisborne states the case clearly when he says: "Is
your subsoil moister after the rains of mid-winter, than it is after the drought of mid-summer?
If it is, it will drain."

The proportion of the rain-fall which will filtrate through the soil to the level of the drains,
varies with the composition of the soil, and with the effect that the draining has had upon them.

In a very loose, gravelly, or sandy soil, which has a perfect outlet for water below, all but
the heaviest falls of rain will sink at once, while on a heavy clay, no matter how well it
is drained, the process of filtration will be much more slow, and if the land be steeply inclined,
some of the water of ordinarily heavy rains must flow off over the surface, unless, by horizontal
plowing, or catch drains on the surface, its flow be retarded until it has time to enter the soil.

The power of drained soils to hold water, by absorption, is very great. A cubic foot of very
dry soil, of favorable character, has been estimated to absorb within its particles,—holding
no free water, or water of drainage,—about one-half its bulk of water; if this is true, the
amount required to moisten a dry soil, four feet deep, giving no excess to be drained away,
would amount to a rain fall of from 20 to 30 inches in depth. If we consider, in addition to
this, the amount of water drained away, we shall see that the soil has sufficient capacity
for the reception of all the rain water that falls upon it.

In connection with the question of absorption and filtration, it is interesting to investigate
the movements of water in the ground. The natural tendency of water, in the soil as well as
out of it, is to descend perpendicularly toward the center of the earth. If it meet a flat
layer of gravel lying upon clay, and having a free outlet, it will follow the course of the
gravel,—laterally,—and find the outlet; if it meet water which is dammed up in the soil, and
which has an outlet at a certain elevation, as at the floor of a drain, it will raise the general
level of the water, and force it out through the drain; if it meet water which has no outlet,
it will raise its level until the soil is filled, or until it accumulates sufficient pressure,
(head,) to force its way through the adjoining lands, or until it finds an outlet at the surface.

The first two cases named represent the condition which it is desirable to obtain, by either
natural or artificial drainage; the third case is the only one which makes drainage necessary.
It is a fixed rule that water, descending in the soil, will find the lowest outlet to which
there exists a channel through which it can flow, and that if, after heavy rains, it rise too
near the surface of the ground, the proper remedy is to tap it at a lower level, and thus remove
the water table to the proper distance from the surface. This subject will be more fully treated
in a future chapter, in considering the question of the depth, and the intervals, at which
drains should be placed.

*Evaporation.*—By evaporation is meant the process by which a liquid assumes the form of a
gas or vapor, or "dries up." Water, exposed to the air, is constantly undergoing this change.
It is changed from the liquid form, and becomes a vapor in the air. Water in the form of vapor
occupies nearly 2000 times the space that it filled as a liquid. As the vapor at the time of
its formation is of the same temperature with the water, and, from its highly expanded condition,
requires a great amount of heat to maintain it as vapor, it follows that a given quantity of
water contains, in the vapory form, many times as much heat as in the liquid form. This heat
is taken from surrounding substances,—from the ground and from the air,—which are thereby made
much cooler. For instance, if a shower moisten the ground, on a hot summer day, the drying
up of the water will cool both the ground and the air. If we place a wet cloth on the head,
and hasten the evaporation of the water by fanning, we cool the head; if we wrap a wet napkin
around a pitcher of water, and place it in a current of air, the water in the pitcher is made
cooler, by giving up its heat to the evaporating water of the napkin; when we sprinkle water
on the floor of a room, its evaporation cools the air of the room.

So great is the effect of evaporation, on the temperature of the soil, that Dr. Madden found
that the soil of a drained field, in which most of the water was removed from below, was 6-1/2°
Far. warmer than a similar soil undrained, from which the water had to be removed by evaporation.
This difference of 6-1/2° is equal to a difference of elevation of 1,950 feet.

It has been found, by experiments made in England, that the average evaporation of water from
wet soils is equal to a depth of two inches per month, from May to August, inclusive; in America
it must be very much greater than this in the summer months, but this is surely enough for
the purposes of illustration, as two inches of water, over an acre of land, would weigh about
two hundred tons. The amount of heat required to evaporate this is immense, and a very large
part of it is taken from the soil, which, thereby, becomes cooler, and less favorable for a
rapid growth. It is usual to speak of heavy, wet lands as being "cold," and it is now seen
why they are so.

If none of the water which falls on a field is removed by drainage, (natural or artificial,)
and if none runs off from the surface, the whole rain-fall of a year must be removed by evaporation,
and the cooling of the soil will be proportionately great. The more completely we withdraw
this water from the surface, and carry it off in underground drains, the more do we reduce
the amount to be removed by evaporation. In land which is well drained, the amount evaporated,
even in summer, will not be sufficient to so lower the temperature of the soil as to retard
the growth of plants; the small amount dried out of the particles of the soil, (water of absorption,)
will only keep it from being raised to too great a heat by the mid-summer sun.

An idea of the amount of heat lost to the soil, in the evaporation of water, may be formed
from the fact that to evaporate, by artificial heat, the amount of water contained in a rain-fall
of two inches on an acre, (200 tons,) would require over 20 tons of coal. Of course a considerable—probably
by far the larger,—part of the heat taken up in the process of evaporation is furnished by
the air; but the amount abstracted from the soil is great, and is in direct proportion to the
amount of water removed by this process; hence, the more we remove by draining, the more heat
we retain in the ground.

The season of growth is lengthened by draining, because, by avoiding the cooling effects of
evaporation, germination is more rapid, and the young plant grows steadily from the start,
instead of struggling against the retarding influence of a cold soil.

*Temperature.*—The temperature of the soil has great effect on the germination of seeds, the
growth of plants, and the ripening of the crops.

Gisborne says: "The evaporation of 1 lb. of water lowers the temperature of 100 lbs. of soil
10°,—that is to say, that, if to 100 lbs. of soil, holding all the water it can by attraction,
but containing no water of drainage, is added 1 lb. of water which it has no means of discharging,
except by evaporation, it will, by the time that it has so discharged it, be 60° colder than
it would have been, if it had the power of discharging this 1 lb. by filtration; or, more practically,
that, if rain, entering in the proportion of 1 lb. to 100 lbs. into a retentive soil, which
is saturated with water of attraction, is discharged by evaporation, it lowers the temperature
of that soil 10°. If the soil has the means of discharging that 1 lb. of water by filtration,
no effect is produced beyond what is due to the relative temperatures of the rain and of the soil."

It has been established by experiment that four times as much heat is required to evaporate
a certain quantity of water, as to raise the same quantity from the freezing to the boiling point.

It is, probably, in consequence of this cooling effect of evaporation, that wet lands are warmest
when shaded, because, under this condition, evaporation is less active. Such lands, in cloudy
weather, form an unnatural growth, such as results in the "lodging" of grain crops, from the
deficient strength of the straw which this growth produces.

In hot weather, the temperature of the lower soil is, of course, much lower than that of the
air, and lower than that of the water of warm rains. If the soil is saturated with water, the
water will, of course, be of an even temperature with the soil in which it lies, but if this
be drained off, warm air will enter from above, and give its heat to the soil, while each rain,
as it falls, will also carry its heat with it. Furthermore, the surface of the ground is sometimes
excessively heated by the summer sun, and the heat thus contained is carried down to the lower
soil by the descending water of rains, which thus cool the surface and warm the subsoil, both
beneficial.

Mr. Josiah Parkes, one of the leading draining engineers of England, has made some experiments
to test the extent to which draining affects the temperature of the soil. The results of his
observations are thus stated by Gisborne: "Mr. Parkes gives the temperature on a Lancashire
flat moss, but they only commence 7 inches below the surface, and do not extend to mid-summer.
At that period of the year the temperature, at 7 inches, never exceeded 66°, and was generally
from 10° to 15° below the temperature of the air in the shade, at 4 feet above the earth. Mr.
Parkes’ experiments were made simultaneously, on a drained, and on an undrained portion of
the moss; and the result was, that, on a mean of 35 observations, the drained soil at 7 inches
in depth was 10° warmer than the undrained, at the same depth. The undrained soil never exceeded
47°, whereas, after a thunder storm, the drained reached 66° at 7 inches, and 48° at 31 inches.
Such were the effects, at an early period of the year, on a black bog. They suggest some idea
of what they were, when, in July or August, thunder rain at 60° or 70° falls on a surface heated
to 130°, and carries down with it, into the greedy fissures of the earth, its augmented temperature.
These advantages, porous soils possess by nature, and retentive ones only acquire them by drainage."

Drained land, being more open to atmospheric circulation, and having lost the water which prevented
the temperature of its lower portions from being so readily affected by the temperature of
the air as it is when dry, will freeze to a greater depth in winter and thaw out earlier in
the spring. The deep freezing has the effect to greatly pulverize the lower soil, thus better
fitting it for the support of vegetation; and the earlier thawing makes it earlier ready for
spring work.

*Drought.*—At first thought, it is not unnatural to suppose that draining will increase the
ill effect of too dry seasons, by removing water which might keep the soil moist. Experience
has proven, however, that the result is exactly the opposite of this. Lands which suffer most
from drought are most benefited by draining,—more in their greater ability to withstand drought
than in any other particular.

The reasons for this action of draining become obvious, when its effects on the character of
the soil are examined. There is always the same amount of water in, and about, the surface
of the earth. In winter there is more in the soil than in summer, while in summer, that which
has been dried out of the soil exists in the atmosphere in the form of a vapor. It is held
in the vapory form by heat, which may be regarded as braces to keep it distended. When vapor
comes in contact with substances sufficiently colder than itself, it gives up its heat,—thus
losing its braces,—contracts, becomes liquid water, and is deposited as dew.

Many instances of this operation are familiar to all.

For instance, a cold pitcher in the summer robs the vapor in the air of its heat, and causes
it to be deposited on its own surface,—of course the water comes from the atmosphere, not through
the wall of the pitcher; if we breathe on a knife blade, it condenses, in the same manner,
the moisture of the breath, and becomes covered with a film of-water; stone-houses are damp
in summer, because the inner surface of their walls, being cooler than the atmosphere, causes
its moisture to be deposited in the manner described;(2) nearly every night, in summer, the
cold earth receives moisture from the atmosphere in the form of dew; a single large head of
cabbage, which at night is very cold, often condenses water to the amount of a gill or more.

The same operation takes place in the soil. When the air is allowed to circulate among its
lower and cooler, (because more shaded,) particles, they receive moisture by the same process
of condensation. Therefore, when, by the aid of under-drains, the lower soil becomes sufficiently
loose and open, to allow a circulation of air, the deposit of atmospheric moisture will keep
it supplied with water, at a point easily accessible to the roots of plants.

If we wish to satisfy ourselves that this is practically correct, we have only to prepare two
boxes of finely pulverized soil,—one three or four inches deep,—and the other fifteen or twenty
inches deep, and place them in the sun, at midday, in summer. The thinner soil will soon be
completely dried, while the deeper one, though it may have been previously dried in an oven,
will soon accumulate a large amount of water on those particles which, being lower and better
sheltered from the sun’s heat than the particles of the thin soil, are made cooler.

We have seen that even the most retentive soil,—the stiffest clay,—is made porous by the repeated
passage of water from the surface to the level of the drains, and that the ability to admit
air, which plowing gives it, is maintained for a much longer time than if it were usually saturated
with water which has no other means of escape than by evaporation at the surface. The power
of dry soils to absorb moisture from the air may be seen by an examination of the following
table of results obtained by Schuebler, who exposed 1,000 grains of dried soil of the various
kinds named to the action of the air:

Kind of Soil.       Amount of Water Absorbed
                    in 24 Hours.
Common Soil         22 grains.
Loamy Clay          26 grains.
Garden Soil         45 grains.
Brickmakers’ Clay   30 grains.

The effect of draining in overcoming drought, by admitting atmospheric vapor will, of course,
be very much increased if the land be thoroughly loosened by cultivation, and especially if
the surface be kept in an open and mellow condition.

In addition to the moisture received from the air, as above described, water is, in a porous
soil, drawn up from the wetter subsoil below, by the same attractive force which acts to wet
the whole of a sponge of which only the lower part touches the water;—as a hard, dry, compact
sponge will absorb water much less readily than one which is loose and open, so the hard clods,
into which undrained clay is dried, drink up water much less freely than they will do after
draining shall have made them more friable.

The source of this underground moisture is the "water table,"—the level of the soil below the
influence of the drains,—and this should be so placed that, while its water will easily rise
to a point occupied by the feeding roots of the crop, it should yield as little as possible
for evaporation at the surface.

Another source of moisture, in summer, is the deposit of dew on the surface of the ground.
The amount of this is very difficult to determine, and accurate American experiments on the
subject are wanting. Of course the amount of dew is greater here than in England, where Dr.
Dalton, a skillful examiner of atmospheric phenomena, estimates the annual deposit of dew to
equal a depth of five inches, or about one-fifth of the rain-fall. Water thus deposited on
the soil is absorbed more or less completely, in proportion to the porosity of the ground.

