Shortly before Christmas Day she called with her sister at the vicarage. Bell, in the course
of the visit, left the room with one of the Boyce girls, to look at the last chrysanthemums
of the year. Then Mrs Boyce took advantage of the occasion to make her little speech. "My dear
Lily," she said, "you will think me cold if I do not say one word to you." "No, I shall not,"
said Lily, almost sharply, shrinking from the finger that threatened to touch her sore. "There
are things which should never be talked about." "Well, well; perhaps so," said Mrs Boyce. But
for a minute or two she was unable to fall back upon any other topic, and sat looking at Lily
with painful tenderness. I need hardly say what were Lily's sufferings under such a gaze; but
she bore it, acknowledging to herself in her misery that the fault did not lie with Mrs Boyce.
How could Mrs Boyce have looked at her otherwise than tenderly?

It was settled, then, that Lily was to dine up at the Great House on Christmas Day, and thus
show to the Allington world that she was not to be regarded as a person shut out from the world
by the depth of her misfortune. That she was right there can, I think, be no doubt; but as
she walked across the little bridge, with her mother and sister, after returning from church,
she would have given much to be able to have turned round, and have gone to bed instead of
to her uncle's dinner.

CHAPTER XXXII

Pawkins's in Jermyn Street

The show of fat beasts in London took place this year on the twentieth day of December, and
I have always understood that a certain bullock exhibited by Lord De Guest was declared by
the metropolitan butchers to have realised all the possible excellences of breeding, feeding,
and condition. No doubt the butchers of the next half-century will have learned much better,
and the Guestwick beast, could it be embalmed and then produced, would excite only ridicule
at the agricultural ignorance of the present age; but Lord De Guest took the praise that was
offered to him, and found himself in a seventh heaven of delight. He was never so happy as
when surrounded by butchers, graziers, and salesmen who were able to appreciate the work of
his life, and who regarded him as a model nobleman. "Look at that fellow," he said to Eames,
pointing to the prize bullock. Eames had joined his patron at the show after his office hours,
looking on upon the living beef by gaslight. "Isn't he like his sire? He was got by Lambkin,
you know."

"Lambkin," said Johnny, who had not as yet been able to learn much about the Guestwick stock.

"Yes, Lambkin. The bull that we had the trouble with. He has just got his sire's back and fore-quarters.
Don't you see?"

"I daresay," said Johnny, who looked very hard, but could not see.

"It's very odd," exclaimed the earl, "but do you know, that bull has been as quiet since that
day,--as quiet as--as anything. I think it must have been my pocket-handkerchief."

"I daresay it was," said Johnny;--"Or perhaps the flies."

"Flies!" said the earl, angrily. "Do you suppose he isn't used to flies? Come away. I ordered
dinner at seven, and it's past six now. My brother-in-law, Colonel Dale, is up in town, and
he dines with us." So he took Johnny's arm, and led him off through the show, calling his attention
as he went to several beasts which were inferior to his own.

And then they walked down through Portman Square and Grosvenor Square, and across Piccadilly
to Jermyn Street. John Eames acknowledged to himself that it was odd that he should have an
earl leaning on his arm as he passed along through the streets. At home, in his own life, his
daily companions were Cradell and Amelia Roper, Mrs Lupex and Mrs Roper. The difference was
very great, and yet he found it quite as easy to talk to the earl as to Mrs Lupex.

"You know the Dales down at Allington, of course," said the earl.

"Oh, yes, I know them."

"But, perhaps, you never met the colonel."

"I don't think I ever did."

"He's a queer sort of fellow;--very well in his way, but he never does anything. He and my
sister live at Torquay, and as far as I can find out, they neither of them have any occupation
of any sort. He's come up to town now because we both had to meet our family lawyers and sign
some papers, but he looks on the journey as a great hardship. As for me, I'm a year older than
he is, but I wouldn't mind going up and down from Guestwick every day."

"It's looking after the bull that does it," said Eames.

"By George! you're right, Master Johnny. My sister and Crofts may tell me what they like, but
when a man's out in the open air for eight or nine hours every day, it doesn't much matter
where he goes to sleep after that. This is Pawkins's--capital good house, but not so good as
it used to be while old Pawkins was alive. Show Mr Eames up into a bedroom to wash his hands."

Colonel Dale was much like his brother in face, but was taller, even thinner, and apparently
older. When Eames went into the sitting-room, the colonel was there alone, and had to take
upon himself the trouble of introducing himself. He did not get up from his arm-chair, but
nodded gently at the young man. "Mr Eames, I believe? I knew your father at Guestwick, a great
many years ago;" then he turned his face back towards the fire and sighed.

"It's got very cold this afternoon," said Johnny, trying to make conversation.

"It's always cold in London," said the colonel.

"If you had to be here in August you wouldn't say so."

"God forbid," said the colonel, and he sighed again, with his eyes fixed upon the fire. Eames
had heard of the very gallant way in which Orlando Dale had persisted in running away with
Lord De Guest's sister, in opposition to very terrible obstacles, and as he now looked at the
intrepid lover, he thought that there must have been a great change since those days. After
that nothing more was said till the earl came down.

Pawkins's house was thoroughly old-fashioned in all things, and the Pawkins of that day himself
stood behind the earl's elbow when the dinner began, and himself removed the cover from the
soup tureen. Lord De Guest did not require much personal attention, but he would have felt
annoyed if this hadn't been done. As it was he had a civil word to say to Pawkins about the
fat cattle, thereby showing that he did not mistake Pawkins for one of the waiters. Pawkins
then took his lordship's orders about the wine and retired.

"He keeps up the old house pretty well," said the earl to his brother-in-law. "It isn't like
what it was thirty years ago, but then everything of that sort has got worse and worse."

"I suppose it has," said the colonel.

"I remember when old Pawkins had as good a glass of port as I've got at home,--or nearly. They
can't get it now, you know."

"I never drink port," said the colonel. "I seldom take anything after dinner, except a little
negus."

His brother-in-law said nothing, but made a most eloquent grimace as he turned his face towards
his soup-plate. Eames saw it, and could hardly refrain from laughing. When, at half-past nine
o'clock, the colonel retired from the room, the earl, as the door was closed, threw up his
hands, and uttered the one word "negus!" Then Eames took heart of grace and had his laughter out.

The dinner was very dull, and before the colonel went to bed Johnny regretted that he had been
induced to dine at Pawkins's. It might be a very fine thing to be asked to dinner with an earl;
and John Eames had perhaps received at his office some little accession of dignity from the
circumstance, of which he had been not unpleasantly aware; but, as he sat at the table, on
which there were four or five apples and a plate of dried nuts, looking at the earl, as he
endeavoured to keep his eyes open, and at the colonel, to whom it seemed absolutely a matter
of indifference whether his companions were asleep or awake, he confessed to himself that the
price he was paying was almost too dear. Mrs Roper's tea-table was not pleasant to him, but
even that would have been preferable to the black dinginess of Pawkins's mahogany, with the
company of two tired old men, with whom he seemed to have no mutual subject of conversation.
Once or twice he tried a word with the colonel, for the colonel sat with his eyes open looking
at the fire. But he was answered with monosyllables, and it was evident to him that the colonel
did not wish to talk. To sit still, with his hands closed over each other on his lap, was work
enough for Colonel Dale during his after-dinner hours.

But the earl knew what was going on. During that terrible conflict between him and his slumber,
in which the drowsy god fairly vanquished him for some twenty minutes, his conscience was always
accusing him of treating his guests badly. He was very angry with himself, and tried to arouse
himself and talk. But his brother-in-law would not help him in his efforts; and even Eames
was not bright in rendering him assistance. Then for twenty minutes he slept soundly, and at
the end of that he woke himself with one of his own snorts. "By George!" he said, jumping up
and standing on the rug, "we'll have some coffee"; and after that he did not sleep any more.

"Dale," said he, "won't you take some more wine?"

"Nothing more," said the colonel, still looking at the fire, and shaking his head very slowly.

"Come, Johnny, fill your glass." He had already got into the way of calling his young friend
Johnny, having found that Mrs Eames generally spoke of her son by that name.

"I have been filling my glass all the time," said Eames, taking the decanter again in his hand
as he spoke.

"I'm glad you've found something to amuse you, for it has seemed to me that you and Dale haven't
had much to say to each other. I've been listening all the time."

"You've been asleep," said the colonel.

"Then there's been some excuse for my holding my tongue," said the earl. "By-the-by, Dale,
what do you think of that fellow Crosbie?"

Eames's ears were instantly on the alert, and the spirit of dullness vanished from him.

"Think of him?" said the colonel.

"He ought to have every bone in his skin broken," said the earl.

"So he ought," said Eames, getting up from his chair in his eagerness, and speaking in a tone
somewhat louder than was perhaps becoming in the presence of his seniors. "So he ought, my
lord. He is the most abominable rascal that ever I met in my life. I wish I was Lily Dale's
brother." Then he sat down again, remembering that he was speaking in the presence of Lily's
uncle, and of the father of Bernard Dale, who might be supposed to occupy the place of Lily's
brother.

The colonel turned his head round, and looked at the young man with surprise. "I beg your pardon,
sir," said Eames, "but I have known Mrs Dale and your nieces all my life."

"Oh, have you?" said the colonel. "Nevertheless it is, perhaps, as well not to make too free
with a young lady's name. Not that I blame you in the least, Mr Eames."

"I should think not," said the earl. "I honour him for his feeling. Johnny, my boy, if ever
I am unfortunate enough to meet that man, I shall tell him my mind, and I believe you will
do the same." On hearing this John Eames winked at the earl, and made a motion with his head
towards the colonel, whose back was turned to him. And then the earl winked back at Eames.

"De Guest," said the colonel, "I think I'll go upstairs; I always have a little arrowroot in
my own room."

"I'll ring the bell for a candle," said the host. Then the colonel went, and as the door was
closed behind him, the earl raised his two hands and uttered that single word, "negus!" Whereupon
Johnny burst out laughing, and coming round to the fire, sat himself down in the arm-chair
which the colonel had left.

"I've no doubt it's all right," said the earl; "but I shouldn't like to drink negus myself,
nor yet to have arrowroot up in my bedroom."

"I don't suppose there's any harm in it."

"Oh dear, no; I wonder what Pawkins says about him. But I suppose they have them of all sorts
in an hotel."

"The waiter didn't seem to think much of it when he brought it."

"No, no. If he'd asked for senna and salts, the waiter wouldn't have showed any surprise. By-the-by,
you touched him up about that poor girl."

"Did I, my lord? I didn't mean it."

"You see he's Bernard Dale's father, and the question is, whether Bernard shouldn't punish
the fellow for what he has done. Somebody ought to do it. It isn't right that he should escape.
Somebody ought to let Mr Crosbie know what a scoundrel he has made himself."

"I'd do it to-morrow, only I'm afraid--"

"No, no, no," said the earl; "you are not the right person at all. What have you got to do
with it? You've merely known them as family friends, but that's not enough."

"No, I suppose not," said Eames, sadly.

"Perhaps it's best as it is," said the earl. "I don't know that any good would be got by knocking
him over the head. And if we are to be Christians, I suppose we ought to be Christians."

"What sort of a Christian has he been?"

"That's true enough; and if I was Bernard, I should be very apt to forget my Bible lessons
about meekness."

"Do you know, my lord, I should think it the most Christian thing in the world to pitch into
him; I should, indeed. There are some things for which a man ought to be beaten black and blue."

"So that he shouldn't do them again?"

"Exactly. You might say it isn't Christian to hang a man."

"I'd always hang a murderer. It wasn't right to hang men for stealing sheep."

"Much better hang such a fellow as Crosbie," said Eames.

"Well, I believe so. If any fellow wanted now to curry favour with the young lady, what an
opportunity he'd have."

Johnny remained silent for a moment or two before he answered. "I'm not so sure of that," he
said; mournfully, as though grieving at the thought that there was no chance of currying favour
with Lily by thrashing her late lover.

"I don't pretend to know much about girls," said Lord De Guest; "but I should think it would
be so. I should fancy that nothing would please her so much as hearing that he had caught it,
and that all the world knew that he'd caught it." The earl had declared that he didn't know
much about girls, and in so saving, he was no doubt right.

"If I thought so," said Eames, "I'd find him out to-morrow."

"Why so? what difference does it make to you?" Then there was another pause, during which Johnny
looked very sheepish.

"You don't mean to say that you're in love with Miss Lily Dale?"

"I don't know much about being in love with her," said Johnny, turning very red as he spoke.
And then he made up his mind, in a wild sort of way, to tell all the truth to his friend. Pawkins's
port wine may, perhaps, have had something to do with the resolution. "But I'd go through fire
and water for her, my lord. I knew her years before he had ever seen her, and have loved her
a great deal better than he will ever love any one. When I heard that she had accepted him,
I had half a mind to cut my own throat,--or else his."

"Highty tighty," said the earl.

"It's very ridiculous, I know," said Johnny, "and, of course, she would never have accepted me."

"I don't see that at all."

"I haven't a shilling in the world."

"Girls don't care much for that."

"And then a clerk in the Income-tax Office! It's such a poor thing."

"The other fellow was only a clerk in another office."

The earl living down at Guestwick did not understand that the Income-tax Office in the city,
and the General Committee Office at Whitehall, were as far apart as Dives and Lazarus and separated
by as impassable a gulf.

"Oh, yes," said Johnny; "but his office is another kind of thing, and then he was a swell himself."

"By George, I don't see it," said the earl.

"I don't wonder a bit at her accepting a fellow like that. I hated him the first moment I saw
him; but that's no reason she should hate him. He had that sort of manner, you know. He was
a swell, and girls like that kind of thing. I never felt angry with her, but I could have eaten
him." As he spoke he looked as though he would have made some such attempt had Crosbie been
present.

"Did you ever ask her to have you?" said the earl.

"No; how could I ask her, when I hadn't bread to give her?"

"And you never told her--that you were in love with her, I mean, and all that kind of thing."

"She knows it now," said Johnny; "I went to say good-bye to her the other day, when I thought
she was going to be married. I could not help telling her then."

"But it seems to me, my dear fellow, that you ought to be very much obliged to Crosbie;--that
is to say, if you've a mind to--"

"I know what you mean, my lord. I am not a bit obliged to him. It's my belief that all this
will about kill her. As to myself, if I thought she'd ever have me--"

Then he was again silent, and the earl could see that the tears were in his eyes.

"I think I begin to understand it," said the earl, "and I'll give you a bit of advice. You
come down and spend your Christmas with me at Guestwick."

"Oh, my lord!"

"Never mind my-lording me, but do as I tell you. Lady Julia sent you a message, though I forgot
all about it till now. She wants to thank you herself for what you did in the field."

"That's all nonsense, my lord."

"Very well; you can tell her so. You may take my word for this, too,--my sister hates Crosbie
quite as much as you do. I think she'd 'pitch into him,' as you call it, herself, if she knew
how. You come down to Guestwick for the Christmas, and then go over to Allington and tell them
all plainly what you mean."

"I couldn't say a word to her now."

"Say it to the squire, then. Go to him, and tell him what you mean,--holding your head up like
a man. Don't talk to me about swells. The man who means honestly is the best swell I know.
He's the only swell I recognise. Go to old Dale, and say you come from me,--from Guestwick
Manor. Tell him that if he'll put a little stick under the pot to make it boil, I'll put a
bigger one. He'll understand what that means."

"Oh, no, my lord."

"But I say, oh, yes;" and the earl, who was now standing on the rug before the fire, dug his
hands deep down into his trousers' pockets. "I'm very fond of that girl, and would do much
for her. You ask Lady Julia if I didn't say so to her before I ever knew of your casting a
sheep's-eye that way. And I've a sneaking kindness for you too, Master Johnny. Lord bless you,
I knew your father as well as I ever knew any man; and to tell the truth, I believe I helped
to ruin him. He held land of me, you know, and there can't be any doubt that he did ruin himself.
He knew no more about a beast when he'd done, than--than--than that waiter. If he'd gone on
to this day he wouldn't have been any wiser."

Johnny sat silent, with his eyes full of tears. What was he to say to his friend?

"You come down with me," continued the earl, "and you'll find we'll make it all straight. I
daresay you're right about not speaking to the girl just at present. But tell everything to
the uncle, and then to the mother. And, above all things, never think that you're not good
enough yourself. A man should never think that. My belief is that in life people will take
you very much at your own reckoning. If you are made of dirt, like that fellow Crosbie, you'll
be found out at last, no doubt. But then I don't think you are made of dirt."

"I hope not."

"And so do I. You can come down, I suppose, with me the day after to-morrow?"

"I'm afraid not. I have had all my leave."

"Shall I write to old Buffle, and ask it as a favour?"

"No," said Johnny; "I shouldn't like that. But I'll see to-morrow, and then I'll let you know.
I can go down by the mail train on Saturday, at any rate."

"That won't be comfortable. See and come with me if you can. Now, good-night, my dear fellow,
and remember this,--when I say a thing I mean it. I think I may boast that I never yet went
back from my word."

The earl as he spoke gave his left hand to his guest, and looking somewhat grandly up over
the young man's head, he tapped his own breast thrice with his right hand. As he went through
the little scene, John Eames felt that he was every inch an earl.

"I don't know what to say to you, my lord."

"Say nothing,--not a word more to me. But say to yourself that faint heart never won fair lady.
Good-night, my dear boy, good-night. I dine out to-morrow, but you can call and let me know
at about six."

Eames then left the room without another word, and walked out into the cold air of Jermyn Street.
The moon was clear and bright, and the pavement in the shining light seemed to be as clean
as a lady's hand. All the world was altered to him since he had entered Pawkins's Hotel. Was
it then possible that Lily Dale might even yet become his wife? Could it be true that he, even
now, was in a position to go boldly to the Squire of Allington, and tell him what were his
views with reference to Lily? And how far would he be justified in taking the earl at his word?
Some incredible amount of wealth would be required before he could marry Lily Dale. Two or
three hundred pounds a year at the very least! The earl could not mean him to understand that
any such sum as that would be made up with such an object! Nevertheless he resolved as he walked
home to Burton Crescent that he would go down to Guestwick, and that he would obey the earl's
behest. As regarded Lily herself he felt that nothing could be said to her for many a long
day as yet.

"Oh, John, how late you are!" said Amelia, slipping out from the back parlour as he let himself
in with his latch-key.

"Yes, I am;--very late," said John, taking his candle, and passing her by on the stairs without
another word.

CHAPTER XXXIII

"The Time Will Come"

"Did you hear that young Eames is staying at Guestwick Manor?"

As these were the first words which the squire spoke to Mrs Dale as they walked together up
to the Great House, after church, on Christmas Day, it was clear enough that the tidings of
Johnny's visit, when told to him, had made some impression.

"At Guestwick Manor!" said Mrs Dale. "Dear me! Do you hear that, Bell? There's promotion for
Master Johnny!"

"Don't you remember, mamma," said Bell, "that he helped his lordship in his trouble with the bull?"

Lily, who remembered accurately all the passages of her last interview with John Eames, said
nothing, but felt, in some sort, sore at the idea that he should be so near her at such a time.
In some unconscious way she had liked him for coming to her and saying all that he did say.
She valued him more highly after that scene than she did before. But now, she would feel herself
injured and hurt if he ever made his way into her presence under circumstances as they existed.

"I should not have thought that Lord De Guest was the man to show so much gratitude for so
slight a favour," said the squire. "However, I'm going to dine there to-morrow."

"To meet young Eames?" said Mrs Dale.

"Yes,--especially to meet young Eames. At least, I've been very specially asked to come, and
I've been told that he is to be there."

"And is Bernard going?"

"Indeed I'm not," said Bernard, "I shall come over and dine with you."

A half-formed idea flitted across Lily's mind, teaching her to imagine for a moment that she
might possibly be concerned in this arrangement. But the thought vanished as quickly as it
came, merely leaving some soreness behind it. There are certain maladies which make the whole
body sore. The patient, let him be touched on any point,--let him even be nearly touched,--will
roar with agony as though his whole body had been bruised. So it is also with maladies of the
mind. Sorrows such as that of poor Lily leave the heart sore at every point, and compel the
sufferer to be ever in fear of new wounds. Lily bore her cross bravely and well; but not the
less did it weigh heavily upon her at every turn because she had the strength to walk as though
she did not bear it. Nothing happened to her, or in her presence, that did not in some way
connect itself with her misery. Her uncle was going over to meet John Eames at Lord De Guest's.
Of course the men there would talk about her, and all such talking was an injury to her.

The afternoon of that day did not pass away brightly. As long as the servants were in the room
the dinner went on much as other dinners. At such times a certain amount of hypocrisy must
always be practised in closely domestic circles. At mixed dinner-parties people can talk before
Richard and William the same words that they would use if Richard and William were not there.
People so mixed do not talk together their inward home thoughts. But when close friends are
together, a little conscious reticence is practised till the door is tiled. At such a meeting
as this that conscious reticence was of service, and created an effect which was salutary.
When the door was tiled, and when the servants were gone, how could they be merry together?
By what mirth should the beards be made to wag on that Christmas Day?

"My father has been up in town," said Bernard. "He was with Lord De Guest at Pawkins's."

"Why didn't you go and see him?" asked Mrs Dale.

"Well, I don't know. He did not seem to wish it. I shall go down to Torquay in February. I
must be up in London you know, in a fortnight, for good." Then they were all silent again for
a few minutes. If Bernard could have owned the truth, he would have acknowledged that he had
not gone up to London, because he did not yet know how to treat Crosbie when he should meet
him. His thoughts on this matter threw some sort of shadow across poor Lily's mind, making
her feel that her wound was again opened.

"I want him to give up his profession altogether," said the squire, speaking firmly and slowly.
"It would be better, I think, for both of us that he should do so."

"Would it be wise at his time of life," said Mrs Dale, "and when he has been doing so well?"

"I think it would be wise. If he were my son it would be thought better that he should live
here upon the property, among the people who are to become his tenants, than remain up in London,
or perhaps be sent to India. He has one profession as the heir of this place, and that, I think,
should be enough."

"I should have but an idle life of it down here," said Bernard.

"That would be your own fault. But if you did as I would have you, your life would not be idle."
In this he was alluding to Bernard's proposed marriage, but as to that nothing further could
be said in Bell's presence. Bell understood it all, and sat quite silent, with demure countenance;--perhaps
even with something of sternness in her face.

"But the fact is," said Mrs Dale, speaking in a low tone, and having well considered what she
was about to say, "that Bernard is not exactly the same as your son."

"Why not?" said the squire. "I have even offered to settle the property on him if he will leave
the service."

"You do not owe him so much as you would owe your son;--and, therefore, he does not owe you
as much as he would owe his father."

"If you mean that I cannot constrain him, I know that well enough. As regards money, I have
offered to do for him quite as much as any father would feel called upon to do for an only son."

"I hope you don't think me ungrateful," said Bernard.

"No, I do not; but I think you unmindful. I have nothing more to say about it, however;--not
about that. If you should marry--" And then he stopped himself, feeling that he could not go
on in Bell's presence.

"If he should marry," said Mrs Dale, "it may well be that his wife would like a house of her own."

"Wouldn't she have this house?" said the squire, angrily. "Isn't it big enough? I only want
one room for myself, and I'd give up that if it were necessary."

"That's nonsense," said Mrs Dale.

"It isn't nonsense," said the squire.

"You'll be squire of Allington for the next twenty years," said Mrs Dale. "And as long as you
are the squire, you'll be master of this house; at least, I hope so. I don't approve of monarchs
abdicating in favour of young people."

"I don't think Uncle Christopher would look at all well like Charles the Fifth," said Lily.

"I would always keep a cell for you, my darling, if I did," said the squire, regarding her
with that painful, special tenderness. Lily, who was sitting next to Mrs Dale, put her hand
out secretly and got hold of her mother's, thereby indicating that she did not intend to occupy
the cell offered to her by her uncle; or to look to him as the companion of her monastic seclusion.
After that there was nothing more then said as to Bernard's prospects.

"Mrs Hearn is dining at the vicarage, I suppose?" asked the squire.

"Yes; she went in after church," said Bell. "I saw her go with Mrs Boyce."

"She told me she never would dine with them again after dark in winter," said Mrs Dale. "The
last time she was there, the boy let the lamp blow out as she was going home, and she lost
her way. The truth was, she was angry because Mr Boyce didn't go with her."

"She's always angry," said the squire. "She hardly speaks to me now. When she paid her rent
the other day to Jolliffe, she said she hoped it would do me much good; as though she thought
me a brute for taking it."

"So she does," said Bernard.

"She's very old, you know," said Bell.

"I'd give her the house for nothing, if I were you, uncle," said Lily.

"No, my dear; if you were me you would not. I should be very wrong to do so. Why should Mrs
Hearn have her house for nothing, any more than her meat or her clothes? It would be much more
reasonable were I to give her so much money into her hand yearly; but it would be wrong in
me to do so, seeing that she is not an object of charity;--and it would be wrong in her to
take it."

"And she wouldn't take it," said Mrs Dale.

"I don't think she would. But if she did, I'm sure she would grumble because it wasn't double
the amount. And if Mr Boyce had gone home with her, she would have grumbled because he walked
too fast."

"She is very old," said Bell, again.

"But, nevertheless, she ought to know better than to speak disparagingly of me to my servants.
She should have more respect for herself." And the squire showed by the tone of his voice that
he thought very much about it.

It was very long and very dull that Christmas evening, making Bernard feel strongly that he
would be very foolish to give up his profession, and tie himself down to a life at Allington.
Women are more accustomed than men to long, dull, unemployed hours; and, therefore, Mrs Dale
and her daughters bore the tedium courageously. While he yawned, stretched himself, and went
in and out of the room, they sat demurely, listening as the squire laid down the law on small
matters, and contradicting him occasionally when the spirit of either of them prompted her
specially to do so. "Of course you know much better than I do," he would say. "Not at all,"
Mrs Dale would answer. "I don't pretend to know anything about it. But--" So the evening wore
itself away; and when the squire was left alone at half-past nine, he did not feel that the
day had passed badly with him. That was his style of life, and he expected no more from it
than he got. He did not look to find things very pleasant, and, if not happy, he was, at any
rate, contented.

"Only think of Johnny Eames being at Guestwick Manor!" said Bell, as they were going home.

"I don't see why he shouldn't be there," said Lily. "I would rather it should be he than I,
because Lady Julia is so grumpy."

"But asking your Uncle Christopher especially to meet him!" said Mrs Dale. "There must be some
reason for it." Then Lily felt the soreness come upon her again, and spoke no further upon
the subject.

We all know that there was a special reason, and that Lily's soreness was not false in its
mysterious forebodings. Eames, on the evening after his dinner at Pawkins's, had seen the earl,
and explained to him that he could not leave town till the Saturday evening; but that he could
remain over the Tuesday. He must be at his office by twelve on Wednesday, and could manage
to do that by an early train from Guestwick.

"Very well, Johnny," said the earl, talking to his young friend with the bedroom candle in
his hand, as he was going up to dress. "Then I'll tell you what; I've been thinking of it.
I'll ask Dale to come over to dinner on Tuesday; and if he'll come, I'll explain the whole
matter to him myself. He's a man of business, and he'll understand. If he won't come, why then
you must go over to Allington, and find him, if you can, on the Tuesday morning; or I'll go
to him myself, which will be better. You mustn't keep me now, as I am ever so much too late."

Eames did not attempt to keep him, but went away feeling that the whole matter was being arranged
for him in a very wonderful way. And when he got to Allington he found that the squire had
accepted the earl's invitation. Then he declared to himself that there was no longer any possibility
of retractation for him. Of course he did not wish to retract. The one great longing of his
life was to call Lily Dale his own. But he felt afraid of the squire,--that the squire would
despise him and snub him, and that the earl would perceive that he had made a mistake when
he saw how his client was scorned and snubbed. It was arranged that the earl was to take the
squire into his own room for a few minutes before dinner, and Johnny felt that he would be
hardly able to stand his ground in the drawing-room when the two old men should make their
appearance together.

He got on very well with Lady Julia, who gave herself no airs, and made herself very civil.
Her brother had told her the whole story, and she felt as anxious as he did to provide Lily
with another husband in place of that horrible man Crosbie. "She has been very fortunate in
her escape," she said to her brother; "very fortunate." The earl agreed with this, saying that
in his opinion his own favourite Johnny would make much the nicer lover of the two. But Lady
Julia had her doubts as to Lily's acquiescence. "But, Theodore, he must not speak to Miss Lilian
Dale herself about it yet a while."

"No," said the earl, "not for a month or so."

"He will have a better chance if he can remain silent for six months," said Lady Julia.

"Bless my soul! somebody else will have picked her up before that," said the earl.

In answer to this Lady Julia merely shook her head.

Johnny went over to his mother on Christmas Day after church, and was received by her and by
his sister with great honour. And she gave him many injunctions as to his behaviour at the
earl's table, even descending to small details about his boots and linen. But Johnny had already
begun to feel at the Manor that, after all, people are not so very different in their ways
of life as they are supposed to be. Lady Julia's manners were certainly not quite those of
Mrs Roper; but she made the tea very much in the way in which it was made at Burton Crescent,
and Eames found that he could eat his egg, at any rate on the second morning, without any tremor
in his hand, in spite of the coronet on the silver egg-cup. He did feel himself to be rather
out of his place in the Manor pew on the Sunday, conceiving that all the congregation was looking
at him; but he got over this on Christmas Day, and sat quite comfortably in his soft corner
during the sermon, almost going to sleep. And when he walked with the earl after church to
the gate over which the noble peer had climbed in his agony, and inspected the hedge through
which he had thrown himself, he was quite at home with his little jokes, bantering his august
companion as to the mode of his somersault. But be it always remembered that there are two
modes in which a young man may be free and easy with his elder and superior,--the mode pleasant
and the mode offensive. Had it been in Johnny's nature to try the latter, the earl's back would
soon have been up, and the play would have been over. But it was not in Johnny's nature to
do so, and therefore it was that the earl liked him.

At last came the hour of dinner on Tuesday, or at least the hour at which the squire had been
asked to show himself at the Manor House. Eames, as by agreement with his patron, did not come
down so as to show himself till after the interview. Lady Julia, who had been present at their
discussions, had agreed to receive the squire; and then a servant was to ask him to step into
the earl's own room. It was pretty to see the way in which the three conspired together, planning
and plotting with an eagerness that was beautifully green and fresh.

"He can be as cross as an old stick when he likes it," said the earl, speaking of the squire,
"and we must take care not to rub him the wrong way."

"I shan't know what to say to him when I come down," said Johnny.

"Just shake hands with him and don't say anything," said Lady Julia.

"I'll give him some port wine that ought to soften his heart," said the earl, "and then we'll
see how he is in the evening."

Eames heard the wheels of the squire's little open carriage and trembled. The squire, unconscious
of all schemes, soon found himself with Lady Julia, and within two minutes of his entrance
was walked off to the earl's private room. "Certainly," he said, "certainly"; and followed
the man-servant. The earl, as he entered, was standing in the middle of the room, and his round
rosy face was a picture of good-humour.

"I'm very glad you've come, Dale," said he. "I've something I want to say to you."

Mr Dale, who neither in heart nor in manner was so light a man as the earl, took the proffered
hand of his host, and bowed his head slightly, signifying that he was willing to listen to
anything.

"I think I told you," continued the earl, "that young John Eames is down here; but he goes
back to-morrow, as they can't spare him at his office. He's a very good fellow,--as far as
I am able to judge, an uncommonly good young man. I've taken a great fancy to him myself."

In answer to this Mr Dale did not say much. He sat down, and in some general terms expressed
his good-will towards all the Eames family.

"As you know, Dale, I'm a very bad hand at talking, and therefore I won't beat about the bush
in what I've got to say at present. Of course we've all heard of that scoundrel Crosbie, and
the way he has treated your niece Lilian."

"He is a scoundrel,--an unmixed scoundrel. But the less we say about that the better. It is
ill mentioning a girl's name in such a matter as that."

"But, my dear Dale, I must mention it at the present moment. Dear young child, I would do anything
to comfort her! And I hope that something may be done to comfort her. Do you know that that
young man was in love with her long before Crosbie ever saw her?"

