There is a new joke too, a Red Book, out of which we are gradually becoming millionaires. It
is full of comfortable claims and allowances for gentlemen serving the KING overseas. The only
thing is it takes a bit of working out. There are so many channels of enrichment. Thus in June--I
forget the exact date--I spent a night in the train. Although I had a bed and beer in bottles
all the way from England, not to mention usual meals and part use of doctor, I became entitled
to one franc ten centimes in lieu of something which I have now forgotten. (Authority, W.O.
Letter 2719.) Then a broken revolver is worth no less than seventy-two shillings, but I have
to collect autographs to get that Unclaimed groom's allowance--I don't think my groom has claimed
it--comes to nearly four-and-sixpence; and I find I have been quite needlessly getting my hair
cut at my own expense these many months.

And yet I am afraid that when have made it all out and got a chartered accountant to account
for it--that ought to mean a few pounds Chartered Accountant allowance--my application will
be returned to me because the envelope is not that shade of mauve officially ordained for the
enclosure of Overseas Officers' Claims.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO "LIFE" OF NEW YORK.

(In acknowledgment of its "John Bull Number.")

  In earlier peaceful days your attitude
  Was witty and satirical and shrewd,
  But, whether you were serious or skittish,
  Always a candid critic of things British,
  Though, when you were unable to admire us,
  Life's "little ironies" were free from virus.
  But since the War began your English readers
  Have welcomed MARTIN's admirable leaders--
  Which prove that all that's honest, clean and wise
  In the United States is pro-Allies--
  And learned to recognise in Life a friend
  On whom to reckon to the bitter end.
  But these good services you now have crowned
  By something finer, braver, more profound--
  Your "John Bull Number," where we gladly trace
  Pride in the common glories of our race,
  Goodwill, good fellowship, kind words of cheer,
  So frank, so unmistakably sincere,
  That we can find (in ARTEMUS'S phrase)
  No "slopping over" of the pap of praise,
  But just the sort of message that one brother
  Would send in time of trial to another.
  And thus, whatever comes of WILSON's Notes,
  Of Neutral claims or of the tug for votes,
  Nothing that happens henceforth can detract
  From your fraternal and endearing act,
  Which fills your cup of kindness brimming full,
  And signals Sursum corda to John Bull.

(The War Week by Week, as seen from New York. Being Observations from "Life." By E.S. MARTIN.)

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Chairman said he should like to appeal to the good sense of
    the inhabitants of Duffield, through the Press, to do all they
    could to darken their windows not only at the front of the
    houses, but also at the back.

    The Clerk said the Council had no power to take action in this
    matter only by persuasion, and it was decided that 500 leaflets
    should be distributed by the lamplighters to each
    house."--Derbyshire Advertiser.

And with pulp so expensive, too!

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S POTTED FILMS. THE PLAY WITH A MORAL.

.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL JUMBOMANIA.

    "The piano with a thirty-foot keyboard, forty-five octaves, and
    five hundred and twenty-two keys, which Mr. Alfred Butt will
    'present' in 'Follow the Crowd' at the Empire Theatre, is now in
    course of construction. Six pianists will play it, and Mr.
    Irving Berlin, the composer of 'Watch Your Step,' is composing
    some special melodies for them."--Sunday Paper.

The new Bombastophone which the Titanola Company are constructing for Mr. Boomer, the famous
War lecturer, is approaching completion. This remarkable instrument, which roughly resembles
a double-bassoon, stands about 45 feet high, and has a compass of 500 octaves, from the low
B flat in profundissimo to the high G on the Doncaster St. Leger line. The use that Mr. Boomer
makes of the Bombastophone is very original and effective. Whenever he sees that the attention
of his audience is flagging he introduces an interlude of "bombination," which renders lethargy
impossible and exercises an indescribably stimulating effect on the tympanum. The current of
air is supplied by a bellows operated by an eight-cylinder Brome engine, but Mr. Boomer works
the keys himself, climbing up and down them with a rapidity which must be seen to be appreciated.

Another instrument which is expected to work a revolution in the realm of sonority is the Clumbungo
Drum, on which Mr. Wackford Bumpus will shortly give a recital at the Albert Hall. The drum,
which is made of teak and rhinoceros hide, is three hundred feet in circumference, but only
twenty feet high, and the drumsticks are of proportionate length. As Dr. Blamphin, the eminent
aurist, remarks, "The merit of the notes of this momentous instrument is their profound sincerity.
They cannot be disregarded even by the most absent-minded auditor."

       *       *       *       *       *

HINTS FOR AIR RAIDS.

The War Office have issued a notice reminding the public that they are greatly inconvenienced
by persons who telephone for information during the progress of an air raid. To avoid a repetition
of the trouble the attention of the public is called to the following information:--

(1) Elderly ladies may deposit their lap dogs in the bomb-proof shelter erected for that purpose
in the basement of the War Office buildings at Whitehall, a charge of one penny per dog per
raid being made.

(2) Persons removed from the interior of motor omnibuses by the explosion of bombs dropped
by airships cannot claim from the Government a refund of the fares paid by them.

(3) Persons having reason to believe that an air raid is in progress are requested to put on
their hats before leaving the house, as it has been ascertained that a hard hat is a substantial
protection against falling Zeppelins.

(4) For the benefit of editors and others who are dissatisfied with the precautions taken to
cope with the Zeppelin peril, Messrs. Selfgrove & Co. announce that their new Strafing Room
will shortly be open to the public.

(5) As the force of a bomb explosion is largely in an upward direction, those in the immediate
vicinity of a dropping bomb are advised to assume a recumbent position, in which they will
enjoy the added advantage of being indistinguishable from the pavement.

(6) As theatre audiences are notoriously subject to panic, actor-managers are earnestly requested
to prepare beforehand some suitable jest with which, in the event of a bomb entering the theatre,
the attention of the audience may be distracted.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BLOW FOR THE CRESCENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNDERGROUND GAME.

It was four o'clock on a wet wintry morning.

Captain Blank executed an inadvertent double-shuffle on a greasy trench plank and wondered
vaguely why the rain should always come from the north-east. Presently a figure squelched up
to him and halted.

"'Tis Sergeant O'Hagan, Sorr," it whispered hoarsely.

"Well, Sergeant, what is it?"

"'Tis the sintry at Fosse 19, Sorr. He's reported quare noises in that inimy sap beyant."

"Been dreaming, I expect," muttered the Captain, and then added briskly, "I think I'll have
a listen myself. Go ahead, Sergeant."

They made their way slowly along the uneven trench, past silent figures reclining in various
attitudes of ease or discomfort; past emplacements where machine-guns and trench-mortars were
innocently sleeping (with one eye always open) or being overhauled by an expert night-nurse.
Eventually, by that instinct common to trench-dwellers and professional poachers, they found
themselves at Fosse 19, and with superlative caution crept up to the sentry.

"What's wrong?" whispered the Captain tersely.

"Well, Sir," replied Private Blobbs, "I was standin' 'ere on listenin' duty, when I 'ears somethink
movin' very contagious, so I pops up me 'ead to 'ave a peep. Didn't see nothink, but I 'ears
a pecooliar noise like----There y'are, Sir."

He broke off abruptly, and, borne upon the wind, came a series of guttural murmurs.

"Now wouldn't ut give one a quare shtart, that?" remarked Sergeant O'Hagan, sotto voce.

"Um-m," said the Captain thoughtfully. "I think Mr. Hamilton had better have a look round."

A few minutes later, having invaded the privacy of "Whortleberry Villa," he was relentlessly
prodding a bundle of waterproofs.

"Come on, young fella!" he exclaimed when the bundle showed signs of life; "bombin' party forward.
Brother Bosch is playin' the piccolo just outside Fosse 19."

The Subaltern scrambled out of his wraps and, with incredible dispatch, gathered together the
Davids of his section. "All guaranteed," so he boasted, "to hit the cocoanut every time."

Accoutred with their infernal machines, the little band of hope passed along the trench as
silently as a party of Fenimore Cooper's North-American Indians.

"Yes, they're at home right enough," muttered the Subaltern, after a cramped interval of breathless
attention, "and fairly asking for it."

He proceeded to make his dispositions with the skill and assurance of an old hand. He was nearly
nineteen.

"We're going to stalk 'em this time," he whispered to the men; "you keep on crawling till I
say 'Go!' Then drop it on them quick."

He slid over the parapet like an eel and disappeared into the night. In a few moments the sentry
was alone in the trench. His state of mind was, from sheer excitement, almost insupportable.

After what seemed interminable hours, at last he heard the clear word of command, the clatter
of things falling and the immediate roar of the explosions. In reply, rifle fire began to break
out along the German first trenches, whilst, overhead, a star-shell burst into blossom; then
the stutter of machine-guns joined in the chorus. The sentry flattened himself like a poultice
against the side of the trench. Fosse 19 had, among other disadvantages, the reputation of
being open to enfilading by machine-gun fire.

The disturbance died away as quickly as it had arisen, but there were no indications that the
bombing party was returning. Private Blobbs danced with futile impatience and bent his head
to the approved angle of the expert listener. Suddenly a heavy body took him in the nape of
the neck.

"Ow!" he exclaimed, floundering in mud and water with an unseen and inconceivable presence.
He clutched the nightmare of an ear and kicked violently.

"Look aht, Percy," enjoined a hollow but reassuring voice, "'ere comes another!"

Private Blobbs removed himself with remarkable agility.....

"Good!" exclaimed the Subaltern when he finally slid into the trench. "This expedition hasn't
quite come up to expectations, but it's the nicest family of pigs I've seen for some time."

He flashed an electric torch on to the disordered carcasses.

"Corporal Leary," he added incisively, "will you kindly see that the officers' mess is served
with fresh pork?"

He snapped out the torch and, complete master of the situation, started on the return journey
to "Whortleberry Villa."

       *       *       *       *       *

BRINGING THE WAR HOME TO US.

Household Orders.

By Mrs. EMMA PIPP, Commanding 3rd (Home Service) Battalion, The Fire Guards. February 21st, 1916.

Detail.   Orderly Officer  ....   Mary Ann.
             Next for duty....       Sarah Jane.
             Charwoman of the day. . Mrs. Susanna Sudds.

Parade. 9.30 Shopping march under the Commanding Officer. Haversacks (for rations) will be carried.

Inspection. 12.0 O.C. Pantry will inspect all beetle-traps in her charge, and report if No.
13 (Kitchener pattern) has been found.

Decrease Strength. No. 4 Master T. Pipp, attached to Sea View House School, Boyton, for discipline.

Promotion. The Commanding Officer is pleased to approve of the following promotions:--Under-housemaid
Mary Jane, to be Acting-Sergeant Housemaid; Miss Jones, Lady Nurse, to be Nursery Governess.

Leave. No. 1 Father Pipp granted six days' leave, inclusive of two days for travelling. Credit
with six days' ration allowance at 1s. 9d. per diem.

Baths. Baths will be available for the nursery on Saturday evening from 6 to 7. O.C. Nursery
will report that they have been taken.

Signalling. The Commanding Officer is pleased to announce that at the Fortnightly Course of
Glad Eye Signalling, No. 2 Gertie Pipp gained a Flapper's Certificate.

Enquiry. A Court of Enquiry will assemble on the 25th inst. for the purpose of enquiring into
the circumstances whereby the wheel of No. 3 Perambulator became buckled on the 12th inst.

O.C. Nursery will arrange for the presence of the necessary witnesses, with the exception of
No. 9 Baby Pipp, now teething.

General Inspection. On the 1st prox., Uncle-General Towzer, L.S.D., will hold an inspection
of nephews and nieces at 5 o'clock on the front parade lawn.

Dress: Best bibs and tuckers, with smiles.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Hint for Slackers.

    "Drilling versus Broad-Casting Oats."

    Scotsman.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The British Tropical Committee for War Films exhibited a
    further series of pictures of the British Army in France at the
    West-end Cinema House, Coventry-street, yesterday."

    The Times.

Very hot stuff, no doubt!

       *       *       *       *       *

From a description of Sir SAMUEL EVANS' "lit de justice":--

    "Sir Samuel first heard one summons in camera, and then took two
    months of a formal nature, the time occupied being less than
    half an hour."--Morning Paper.

How time does fly when one's happy.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WANTED, Rehearse March 20, Comedian and Chambermaid. Light
    Comedy (Refined Part, capable Good Drunken Scene)."

    The Stage.

This is what is meant, no doubt, when people talk of "elevating" the drama.

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, February 15th.--To the regret of all loyal citizens, the curtain rang up at Westminster
to-day without the now customary Royal Overture. In the absence of HIS MAJESTY, the LORD CHANCELLOR
delivered the brief Speech from the Throne, expressing the unalterable determination of the
British people and their Allies to defeat the Power (name not given but possibly conjecturable)
"which mistakes force for right and expediency for honour." To emphasise the unity of the nation
the Address was moved by the Unionist Earl of CLARENDON and seconded by the Liberal Lord MUIR-MACKENZIE.
It was agreed to in good time for dinner.

