"No muckle o' that, sir," answered Dame Dods; "for if he was drinking this very tea that ye
gat doun from London wi' the mail, he wad mistake it for common bohea."

"Then he has not all his organs--wants a nose, or the use of one at least," said Mr. Touchwood;
"the tea is right gunpowder--a perfect nosegay."

"Aweel, that may be," said the landlady; "but I have gi'en the minister a dram frae my ain
best bottle of real Coniac brandy, and may I never stir frae the bit, if he didna commend my
whisky when he set down the glass! There is no ane o' them in the Presbytery but himsell--ay,
or in the Synod either--but wad hae kend whisky frae brandy."

"But what sort of man is he?--Has he learning?" demanded Touchwood.

"Learning?--eneugh o' that," answered Meg; "just dung donnart wi' learning--lets a' things
about the Manse gang whilk gate they will, sae they dinna plague him upon the score. An awfu'
thing it is to see sic an ill-red-up house!--If I had the twa tawpies that sorn upon the honest
man ae week under my drilling, I think I wad show them how to sort a lodging!"

"Does he preach well?" asked the guest.

"Oh, weel eneugh, weel eneugh--sometimes he will fling in a lang word or a bit of learning
that our farmers and bannet lairds canna sae weel follow--But what of that, as I am aye telling
them?--them that pay stipend get aye the mair for their siller."

"Does he attend to his parish?--Is he kind to the poor?"

"Ower muckle o' that, Maister Touchwood--I am sure he makes the Word gude, and turns not away
from those that ask o' him--his very pocket is picked by a wheen ne'er-do-weel blackguards,
that gae sorning through the country."

"Sorning through the country, Mrs. Dods?--what would you think if you had seen the Fakirs,
the Dervises, the Bonzes, the Imaums, the monks, and the mendicants, that I have seen?--But
go on, never mind--Does this minister of yours come much into company?"

"Company?--gae wa'," replied Meg, "he keeps nae company at a', neither in his ain house or
ony gate else. He comes down in the morning in a lang ragged nightgown, like a potato bogle,
and down he sits amang his books; and if they dinna bring him something to eat, the puir demented
body has never the heart to cry for aught, and he has been kend to sit for ten hours thegither,
black fasting, whilk is a' mere papistrie, though he does it just out o' forget."

"Why, landlady, in that case, your parson is any thing but the ordinary kind of man you described
him--Forget his dinner!--the man must be mad--he shall dine with me to-day--he shall have such
a dinner as I'll be bound he won't forget in a hurry."

"Ye'll maybe find that easier said than dune," said Mrs. Dods; "the honest man hasna, in a
sense, the taste of his mouth--forby, he never dines out of his ain house--that is, when he
dines at a'--A drink of milk and a bit of bread serves his turn, or maybe a cauld potato.--It's
a heathenish fashion of him, for as good a man as he is, for surely there is nae Christian
man but loves his own bowels."

"Why, that may be," answered Touchwood; "but I have known many who took so much care of their
own bowels, my good dame, as to have none for any one else.--But come--bustle to the work--get
us as good a dinner for two as you can set out--have it ready at three to an instant--get the
old hock I had sent me from Cockburn--a bottle of the particular Indian Sherry--and another
of your own old claret--fourth bin, you know, Meg.--And stay, he is a priest, and must have
port--have all ready, but don't bring the wine into the sun, as that silly fool Beck did the
other day.--I can't go down to the larder myself, but let us have no blunders."

"Nae fear, nae fear," said Meg, with a toss of the head, "I need naebody to look into my larder
but mysell, I trow--but it's an unco order of wine for twa folk, and ane o' them a minister."

"Why, you foolish person, is there not the woman up the village that has just brought another
fool into the world, and will she not need sack and caudle, if we leave some of our wine?"

"A gude ale-posset wad set her better," said Meg; "however, if it's your will, it shall be
my pleasure.--But the like of sic a gentleman as yoursell never entered my doors!"

The traveller was gone before she had completed the sentence; and, leaving Meg to bustle and
maunder at her leisure, away he marched, with the haste that characterised all his motions
when he had any new project in his head, to form an acquaintance with the minister of St. Ronan's,
whom, while he walks down the street to the Manse, we will endeavour to introduce to the reader.

The Rev. Josiah Cargill was the son of a small farmer in the south of Scotland; and a weak
constitution, joined to the disposition for study which frequently accompanies infirm health,
induced his parents, though at the expense of some sacrifices, to educate him for the ministry.
They were the rather led to submit to the privations which were necessary to support this expense,
because they conceived, from their family traditions, that he had in his veins some portion
of the blood of that celebrated Boanerges of the Covenant, Donald Cargill,[I-G] who was slain
by the persecutors at the town of Queensferry, in the melancholy days of Charles II., merely
because, in the plenitude of his sacerdotal power, he had cast out of the church, and delivered
over to Satan by a formal excommunication, the King and Royal Family, with all the ministers
and courtiers thereunto belonging. But if Josiah was really derived from this uncompromising
champion, the heat of the family spirit which he might have inherited was qualified by the
sweetness of his own disposition, and the quiet temper of the times in which he had the good
fortune to live. He was characterised by all who knew him as a mild, gentle, and studious lover
of learning, who, in the quiet prosecution of his own sole object, the acquisition of knowledge,
and especially of that connected with his profession, had the utmost indulgence for all whose
pursuits were different from his own. His sole relaxations were those of a retiring, mild,
and pensive temper, and were limited to a ramble, almost always solitary, among the woods and
hills, in praise of which, he was sometimes guilty of a sonnet, but rather because he could
not help the attempt, than as proposing to himself the fame or the rewards which attend the
successful poet. Indeed, far from seeking to insinuate his fugitive pieces into magazines and
newspapers, he blushed at his poetical attempts even while alone, and, in fact, was rarely
so indulgent to his vein as to commit them to paper.

From the same maid-like modesty of disposition, our student suppressed a strong natural turn
towards drawing, although he was repeatedly complimented upon the few sketches which he made,
by some whose judgment was generally admitted. It was, however, this neglected talent, which,
like the swift feet of the stag in the fable, was fated to render him a service which he might
in vain have expected from his worth and learning.

My Lord Bidmore, a distinguished connoisseur, chanced to be in search of a private tutor for
his son and heir, the Honourable Augustus Bidmore, and for this purpose had consulted the Professor
of Theology, who passed before him in review several favourite students, any of whom he conceived
well suited for the situation; but still his answer to the important and unlooked-for question,
"Did the candidate understand drawing?" was answered in the negative. The Professor, indeed,
added his opinion, that such an accomplishment was neither to be desired nor expected in a
student of theology; but, pressed hard with this condition as a sine qua non, he at length
did remember a dreaming lad about the Hall, who seldom could be got to speak above his breath,
even when delivering his essays, but was said to have a strong turn for drawing. This was enough
for my Lord Bidmore, who contrived to obtain a sight of some of young Cargill's sketches, and
was satisfied that, under such a tutor, his son could not fail to maintain that character for
hereditary taste which his father and grandfather had acquired at the expense of a considerable
estate, the representative value of which was now the painted canvass in the great gallery
at Bidmore-House.

Upon following up the enquiry concerning the young man's character, he was found to possess
all the other necessary qualifications of learning and morals, in a greater degree than perhaps
Lord Bidmore might have required; and, to the astonishment of his fellow-students, but more
especially to his own, Josiah Cargill was promoted to the desired and desirable situation of
private tutor to the Honourable Mr. Bidmore.

Mr. Cargill did his duty ably and conscientiously, by a spoiled though good-humoured lad, of
weak health and very ordinary parts. He could not, indeed, inspire into him any portion of
the deep and noble enthusiasm which characterises the youth of genius; but his pupil made such
progress in each branch of his studies as his capacity enabled him to attain. He understood
the learned languages, and could be very profound on the subject of various readings--he pursued
science, and could class shells, pack mosses, and arrange minerals--he drew without taste,
but with much accuracy; and although he attained no commanding height in any pursuit, he knew
enough of many studies, literary and scientific, to fill up his time, and divert from temptation
a head, which was none of the strongest in point of resistance.

Miss Augusta Bidmore, his lordship's only other child, received also the instructions of Cargill
in such branches of science as her father chose she should acquire, and her tutor was capable
to teach. But her progress was as different from that of her brother, as the fire of heaven
differs from that grosser element which the peasant piles upon his smouldering hearth. Her
acquirements in Italian and Spanish literature, in history, in drawing, and in all elegant
learning, were such as to enchant her teacher, while at the same time it kept him on the stretch,
lest, in her successful career, the scholar should outstrip the master.

Alas! such intercourse, fraught as it is with dangers arising out of the best and kindest,
as well as the most natural feelings on either side, proved in the present, as in many other
instances, fatal to the peace of the preceptor. Every feeling heart will excuse a weakness,
which we shall presently find carried with it its own severe punishment.

But Josiah Cargill was less fortunate, or less cautious. He suffered his fair pupil to become
inexpressibly dear to him, before he discovered the precipice towards which he was moving under
the direction of a blind and misplaced passion. He was indeed utterly incapable of availing
himself of the opportunities afforded by his situation, to involve his pupil in the toils of
a mutual passion. Honour and gratitude alike forbade such a line of conduct, even had it been
consistent with the natural bashfulness, simplicity, and innocence of his disposition. To sigh
and suffer in secret, to form resolutions of separating himself from a situation so fraught
with danger, and to postpone from day to day the accomplishment of a resolution so prudent,
was all to which the tutor found himself equal; and it is not improbable, that the veneration
with which he regarded his patron's daughter, with the utter hopelessness of the passion which
he nourished, tended to render his love yet more pure and disinterested.

At length, the line of conduct which reason had long since recommended, could no longer be
the subject of procrastination. Mr. Bidmore was destined to foreign travel for a twelvemonth,
and Mr. Cargill received from his patron the alternative of accompanying his pupil, or retiring
upon a suitable provision, the reward of his past instructions. It can hardly be doubted which
he preferred; for while he was with young Bidmore, he did not seem entirely separated from
his sister. He was sure to hear of Augusta frequently, and to see some part, at least, of the
letters which she was to write to her brother; he might also hope to be remembered in these
letters as her "good friend and tutor;" and to these consolations his quiet, contemplative,
and yet enthusiastic disposition, clung as to a secret source of pleasure, the only one which
life seemed to open to him.

But fate had a blow in store, which he had not anticipated. The chance of Augusta's changing
her maiden condition for that of a wife, probable as her rank, beauty, and fortune rendered
such an event, had never once occurred to him; and although he had imposed upon himself the
unwavering belief that she could never be his, he was inexpressibly affected by the intelligence
that she had become the property of another.

The Honourable Mr. Bidmore's letters to his father soon after announced that poor Mr. Cargill
had been seized with a nervous fever, and again, that his reconvalescence was attended with
so much debility, it seemed both of mind and body, as entirely to destroy his utility as a
travelling companion. Shortly after this the travellers separated, and Cargill returned to
his native country alone, indulging upon the road in a melancholy abstraction of mind, which
he had suffered to grow upon him since the mental shock which he had sustained, and which in
time became the most characteristical feature of his demeanour. His meditations were not even
disturbed by any anxiety about his future subsistence, although the cessation of his employment
seemed to render that precarious. For this, however, Lord Bidmore had made provision; for,
though a coxcomb where the fine arts were concerned, he was in other particulars a just and
honourable man, who felt a sincere pride in having drawn the talents of Cargill from obscurity,
and entertained due gratitude for the manner in which he had achieved the important task intrusted
to him in his family.

His lordship had privately purchased from the Mowbray family the patronage or advowson of the
living of St. Ronan's, then held by a very old incumbent, who died shortly afterwards; so that
upon arriving in England Cargill found himself named to the vacant living. So indifferent,
however, did he feel himself towards this preferment, that he might possibly not have taken
the trouble to go through the necessary steps previous to his ordination, had it not been on
account of his mother, now a widow, and unprovided for, unless by the support which he afforded
her. He visited her in her small retreat in the suburbs of Marchthorn, heard her pour out her
gratitude to Heaven, that she should have been granted life long enough to witness her son's
promotion to a charge, which in her eyes was more honourable and desirable than an Episcopal
see--heard her chalk out the life which they were to lead together in the humble independence
which had thus fallen on him--he heard all this, and had no power to crush her hopes and her
triumph by the indulgence of his own romantic feelings. He passed almost mechanically through
the usual forms, and was inducted into the living of St. Ronan's.

Although fanciful and romantic, it was not in Josiah Cargill's nature to yield to unavailing
melancholy; yet he sought relief, not in society, but in solitary study. His seclusion was
the more complete, that his mother, whose education had been as much confined as her fortunes,
felt awkward under her new dignities, and willingly acquiesced in her son's secession from
society, and spent her whole time in superintending the little household, and in her way providing
for all emergencies, the occurrence of which might call Josiah out of his favourite book-room.
As old age rendered her inactive, she began to regret the incapacity of her son to superintend
his own household, and talked something of matrimony, and the mysteries of the muckle wheel.
To these admonitions Mr. Cargill returned only slight and evasive answers; and when the old
lady slept in the village churchyard, at a reverend old age, there was no one to perform the
office of superintendent in the minister's family. Neither did Josiah Cargill seek for any,
but patiently submitted to all the evils with which a bachelor estate is attended, and which
were at least equal to those which beset the renowned Mago-Pico during his state of celibacy.[I-22]
His butter was ill churned, and declared by all but himself and the quean who made it, altogether
uneatable; his milk was burnt in the pan, his fruit and vegetables were stolen, and his black
stockings mended with blue and white thread.

For all these things the minister cared not, his mind ever bent upon far different matters.
Do not let my fair readers do Josiah more than justice, or suppose that, like Beltenebros in
the desert, he remained for years the victim of an unfortunate and misplaced passion. No--to
the shame of the male sex be it spoken, that no degree of hopeless love, however desperate
and sincere, can ever continue for years to embitter life. There must be hope--there must be
uncertainty--there must be reciprocity, to enable the tyrant of the soul to secure a dominion
of very long duration over a manly and well-constituted mind, which is itself desirous to will
its freedom. The memory of Augusta had long faded from Josiah's thoughts, or was remembered
only as a pleasing, but melancholy and unsubstantial dream, while he was straining forward
in pursuit of a yet nobler and coyer mistress, in a word, of Knowledge herself.

Every hour that he could spare from his parochial duties, which he discharged with zeal honourable
to his heart and head, was devoted to his studies, and spent among his books. But this chase
of wisdom, though in itself interesting and dignified, was indulged to an excess which diminished
the respectability, nay, the utility, of the deceived student; and he forgot, amid the luxury
of deep and dark investigations, that society has its claims, and that the knowledge which
is unimparted, is necessarily a barren talent, and is lost to society, like the miser's concealed
hoard, by the death of the proprietor. His studies were also under the additional disadvantage,
that, being pursued for the gratification of a desultory longing after knowledge, and directed
to no determined object, they turned on points rather curious than useful, and while they served
for the amusement of the student himself, promised little utility to mankind at large.

Bewildered amid abstruse researches, metaphysical and historical, Mr. Cargill, living only
for himself and his books, acquired many ludicrous habits, which exposed the secluded student
to the ridicule of the world, and which tinged, though they did not altogether obscure, the
natural civility of an amiable disposition, as well as the acquired habits of politeness which
he had learned in the good society that frequented Lord Bidmore's mansion. He not only indulged
in neglect of dress and appearance, and all those ungainly tricks which men are apt to acquire
by living very much alone, but besides, and especially, he became probably the most abstracted
and absent man of a profession peculiarly liable to cherish such habits. No man fell so regularly
into the painful dilemma of mistaking, or, in Scottish phrase, miskenning, the person he spoke
to, or more frequently enquired of an old maid for her husband, of a childless wife about her
young people, of the distressed widower for the spouse at whose funeral he himself had assisted
but a fortnight before; and none was ever more familiar with strangers whom he had never seen,
or seemed more estranged from those who had a title to think themselves well known to him.
The worthy man perpetually confounded sex, age, and calling; and when a blind beggar extended
his hand for charity, he has been known to return the civility by taking off his hat, making
a low bow, and hoping his worship was well.

Among his brethren, Mr. Cargill alternately commanded respect by the depth of his erudition,
and gave occasion to laughter from his odd peculiarities. On the latter occasions he used abruptly
to withdraw from the ridicule he had provoked; for notwithstanding the general mildness of
his character, his solitary habits had engendered a testy impatience of contradiction, and
a keener sense of pain arising from the satire of others, than was natural to his unassuming
disposition. As for his parishioners, they enjoyed, as may reasonably be supposed, many a hearty
laugh at their pastor's expense, and were sometimes, as Mrs. Dods hinted, more astonished than
edified by his learning; for in pursuing a point of biblical criticism, he did not altogether
remember that he was addressing a popular and unlearned assembly, not delivering a concio ad
clerum--a mistake, not arising from any conceit of his learning, or wish to display it, but
from the same absence of mind which induced an excellent divine, when preaching before a party
of criminals condemned to death, to break off by promising the wretches, who were to suffer
next morning, "the rest of the discourse at the first proper opportunity." But all the neighbourhood
acknowledged Mr. Cargill's serious and devout discharge of his ministerial duties; and the
poorer parishioners forgave his innocent peculiarities, in consideration of his unbounded charity;
while the heritors, if they ridiculed the abstractions of Mr. Cargill on some subjects, had
the grace to recollect that they had prevented him from suing an augmentation of stipend, according
to the fashion of the clergy around him, or from demanding at their hands a new manse, or the
repair of the old one. He once, indeed, wished that they would amend the roof of his book-room,
which "rained in"[I-23] in a very pluvious manner; but receiving no direct answer from our
friend Meiklewham, who neither relished the proposal nor saw means of eluding it, the minister
quietly made the necessary repairs at his own expense, and gave the heritors no farther trouble
on the subject.

Such was the worthy divine whom our bon vivant at the Cleikum Inn hoped to conciliate by a
good dinner and Cockburn's particular; an excellent menstruum in most cases, but not likely
to be very efficacious on the present occasion.

FOOTNOTES:

[I-22] Note III.--Mago-Pico.

[I-23] Scotticé, for "admitted the rain."

CHAPTER XVII.

THE ACQUAINTANCE.

    'Twixt us thus the difference trims:--
    Using head instead of limbs,
      You have read what I have seen;
    Using limbs instead of head,
    I have seen what you have read--
      Which way does the balance lean?

BUTLER.

Our traveller, rapid in all his resolutions and motions, strode stoutly down the street, and
arrived at the Manse, which was, as we have already described it, all but absolutely ruinous.
The total desolation and want of order about the door, would have argued the place uninhabited,
had it not been for two or three miserable tubs with suds, or such like sluttish contents,
which were left there, that those who broke their shins among them might receive a sensible
proof, that "here the hand of woman had been." The door being half off its hinges, the entrance
was for the time protected by a broken harrow, which must necessarily be removed before entry
could be obtained. The little garden, which might have given an air of comfort to the old house
had it been kept in any order, was abandoned to a desolation, of which that of the sluggard
was only a type; and the minister's man, an attendant always proverbial for doing half work,
and who seemed in the present instance to do none, was seen among docks and nettles, solacing
himself with the few gooseberries which remained on some moss-grown bushes. To him Mr. Touchwood
called loudly, enquiring after his master; but the clown, conscious of being taken in flagrant
delict, as the law says, fled from him like a guilty thing, instead of obeying his summons,
and was soon heard hupping and geeing to the cart, which he had left on the other side of the
broken wall.

Disappointed in his application to the man-servant, Mr. Touchwood knocked with his cane, at
first gently, then harder, holloaed, bellowed, and shouted, in the hope of calling the attention
of some one within doors, but received not a word in reply. At length, thinking that no trespass
could be committed upon so forlorn and deserted an establishment, he removed the obstacles
to entrance with such a noise as he thought must necessarily have alarmed some one, if there
was any live person about the house at all. All was still silent; and, entering a passage where
the damp walls and broken flags corresponded to the appearance of things out of doors, he opened
a door to the left, which, wonderful to say, still had a latch remaining, and found himself
in the parlour, and in the presence of the person whom he came to visit.

Amid a heap of books and other literary lumber, which had accumulated around him, sat, in his
well-worn leathern elbow chair, the learned minister of St. Ronan's; a thin, spare man, beyond
the middle age, of a dark complexion, but with eyes which, though now obscured and vacant,
had been once bright, soft, and expressive, and whose features seemed interesting, the rather
that, notwithstanding the carelessness of his dress, he was in the habit of performing his
ablutions with Eastern precision; for he had forgot neatness, but not cleanliness. His hair
might have appeared much more disorderly, had it not been thinned by time, and disposed chiefly
around the sides of his countenance and the back part of his head; black stockings, ungartered,
marked his professional dress, and his feet were thrust into the old slipshod shoes, which
served him instead of slippers. The rest of his garments, as far as visible, consisted in a
plaid nightgown wrapt in long folds round his stooping and emaciated length of body, and reaching
down to the slippers aforesaid. He was so intently engaged in studying the book before him,
a folio of no ordinary bulk, that he totally disregarded the noise which Mr. Touchwood made
in entering the room, as well as the coughs and hems with which he thought it proper to announce
his presence.

No notice being taken of these inarticulate signals, Mr. Touchwood, however great an enemy
he was to ceremony, saw the necessity of introducing his business, as an apology for his intrusion.

"Hem! sir--Ha, hem!--You see before you a person in some distress for want of society, who
has taken the liberty to call on you as a good pastor, who may be, in Christian charity, willing
to afford him a little of your company, since he is tired of his own."

Of this speech Mr. Cargill only understood the words "distress" and "charity," sounds with
which he was well acquainted, and which never failed to produce some effect on him. He looked
at his visitor with lack-lustre eye, and, without correcting the first opinion which he had
formed, although the stranger's plump and sturdy frame, as well as his nicely-brushed coat,
glancing cane, and, above all, his upright and self-satisfied manner, resembled in no respect
the dress, form, or bearing of a mendicant, he quietly thrust a shilling into his hand, and
relapsed into the studious contemplation which the entrance of Touchwood had interrupted.

"Upon my word, my good sir," said his visitor, surprised at a degree of absence of mind which
he could hardly have conceived possible, "you have entirely mistaken my object."

"I am sorry my mite is insufficient, my friend," said the clergyman, without again raising
his eyes, "it is all I have at present to bestow."

"If you will have the kindness to look up for a moment, my good sir," said the traveller, "you
may possibly perceive that you labour under a considerable mistake."

Mr. Cargill raised his head, recalled his attention, and, seeing that he had a well-dressed,
respectable-looking person before him, he exclaimed in much confusion, "Ha!--yes--on my word,
I was so immersed in my book--I believe--I think I have the pleasure to see my worthy friend,
Mr. Lavender?"

"No such thing, Mr. Cargill," replied Mr Touchwood. "I will save you the trouble of trying
to recollect me--you never saw me before.--But do not let me disturb your studies--I am in
no hurry, and my business can wait your leisure."

"I am much obliged," said Mr. Cargill; "have the goodness to take a chair, if you can find
one--I have a train of thought to recover--a slight calculation to finish--and then I am at
your command."

The visitor found among the broken furniture, not without difficulty, a seat strong enough
to support his weight, and sat down, resting upon his cane, and looking attentively at his
host, who very soon became totally insensible of his presence. A long pause of total silence
ensued, only disturbed by the rustling leaves of the folio from which Mr. Cargill seemed to
be making extracts, and now and then by a little exclamation of surprise and impatience, when
he dipped his pen, as happened once or twice, into his snuff-box, instead of the inkstandish
which stood beside it. At length, just as Mr. Touchwood began to think the scene as tedious
as it was singular, the abstracted student raised his head, and spoke as if in soliloquy, "From
Acon, Accor, or St. John d'Acre, to Jerusalem, how far?"

"Twenty-three miles north north-west," answered his visitor, without hesitation.

Mr. Cargill expressed no more surprise at a question which he had put to himself being answered
by the voice of another, than if he had found the distance on the map, and indeed, was not
probably aware of the medium through which his question had been solved; and it was the tenor
of the answer alone which he attended to in his reply.--"Twenty-three miles--Ingulphus," laying
his hand on the volume, "and Jeffrey Winesauf, do not agree in this."

"They may both be d----d, then, for lying block-heads," answered the traveller.

"You might have contradicted their authority, sir, without using such an expression," said
the divine, gravely.

"I cry you mercy, Doctor," said Mr. Touchwood; "but would you compare these parchment fellows
with me, that have made my legs my compasses over great part of the inhabited world?"

"You have been in Palestine, then?" said Mr. Cargill, drawing himself upright in his chair,
and speaking with eagerness and with interest.

"You may swear that, Doctor, and at Acre too. Why, I was there the month after Boney had found
it too hard a nut to crack.--I dined with Sir Sydney's chum, old Djezzar Pacha, and an excellent
dinner we had, but for a dessert of noses and ears brought on after the last remove, which
spoiled my digestion. Old Djezzar thought it so good a joke, that you hardly saw a man in Acre
whose face was not as flat as the palm of my hand--Gad, I respect my olfactory organ, and set
off the next morning as fast as the most cursed hard-trotting dromedary that ever fell to poor
pilgrim's lot could contrive to tramp."

"If you have really been in the Holy Land, sir," said Mr. Cargill, whom the reckless gaiety
of Touchwood's manner rendered somewhat suspicious of a trick, "you will be able materially
to enlighten me on the subject of the Crusades."

"They happened before my time, Doctor," replied the traveller.

"You are to understand that my curiosity refers to the geography of the countries where these
events took place," answered Mr. Cargill.

"O! as to that matter, you are lighted on your feet," said Mr. Touchwood; "for the time present
I can fit you. Turk, Arab, Copt, and Druse, I know every one of them, and can make you as well
acquainted with them as myself. Without stirring a step beyond your threshold, you shall know
Syria as well as I do.--But one good turn deserves another--in that case, you must have the
goodness to dine with me."

"I go seldom abroad, sir," said the minister, with a good deal of hesitation, for his habits
of solitude and seclusion could not be entirely overcome, even by the expectation raised by
the traveller's discourse; "yet I cannot deny myself the pleasure of waiting on a gentleman
possessed of so much experience."

"Well then," said Mr. Touchwood, "three be the hour--I never dine later, and always to a minute--and
the place, the Cleikum Inn, up the way; where Mrs. Dods is at this moment busy in making ready
such a dinner as your learning has seldom seen, Doctor, for I brought the receipts from the
four different quarters of the globe."

Upon this treaty they parted; and Mr. Cargill, after musing for a short while upon the singular
chance which had sent a living man to answer those doubts for which he was in vain consulting
ancient authorities, at length resumed, by degrees, the train of reflection and investigation
which Mr. Touchwood's visit had interrupted, and in a short time lost all recollection of his
episodical visitor, and of the engagement which he had formed.

Not so Mr. Touchwood, who, when not occupied with business of real importance, had the art,
as the reader may have observed, to make a prodigious fuss about nothing at all. Upon the present
occasion, he bustled in and out of the kitchen, till Mrs. Dods lost patience, and threatened
to pin the dish-clout to his tail; a menace which he pardoned, in consideration, that in all
the countries which he had visited, which are sufficiently civilized to boast of cooks, these
artists, toiling in their fiery element, have a privilege to be testy and impatient. He therefore
retreated from the torrid region of Mrs. Dods's microcosm, and employed his time in the usual
devices of loiterers, partly by walking for an appetite, partly by observing the progress of
his watch towards three o'clock, when he had happily succeeded in getting an employment more
serious. His table, in the blue parlour, was displayed with two covers, after the fairest fashion
of the Cleikum Inn; yet the landlady, with a look "civil but sly," contrived to insinuate a
doubt whether the clergyman would come, "when a' was dune."

Mr. Touchwood scorned to listen to such an insinuation until the fated hour arrived, and brought
with it no Mr. Cargill. The impatient entertainer allowed five minutes for difference of clocks,
and variation of time, and other five for the procrastination of one who went little into society.
But no sooner were the last five minutes expended, than he darted off for the Manse, not, indeed,
much like a greyhound or a deer, but with the momentum of a corpulent and well-appetized elderly
gentleman, who is in haste to secure his dinner. He bounced without ceremony into the parlour,
where he found the worthy divine clothed in the same plaid nightgown, and seated in the very
elbow-chair, in which he had left him five hours before. His sudden entrance recalled to Mr.
Cargill, not an accurate, but something of a general, recollection, of what had passed in the
morning, and he hastened to apologize with "Ha!--indeed--already?--upon my word, Mr. A--a--,
I mean my dear friend--I am afraid I have used you ill--I forgot to order any dinner--but we
will do our best.--Eppie--Eppie!"

Not at the first, second, nor third call, but ex intervallo, as the lawyers express it, Eppie,
a bare-legged, shock-headed, thick-ankled, red-armed wench, entered, and announced her presence
by an emphatic "What's your wull?"

"Have you got any thing in the house for dinner, Eppie?"

"Naething but bread and milk, plenty o't--what should I have?"

"You see, sir," said Mr. Cargill, "you are like to have a Pythagorean entertainment; but you
are a traveller, and have doubtless been in your time thankful for bread and milk."

"But never when there was any thing better to be had," said Mr. Touchwood. "Come, Doctor, I
beg your pardon, but your wits are fairly gone a wool-gathering; it was I invited you to dinner,
up at the inn yonder, and not you me."

"On my word, and so it was," said Mr. Cargill; "I knew I was quite right--I knew there was
a dinner engagement betwixt us, I was sure of that, and that is the main point.--Come, sir,
I wait upon you."

"Will you not first change your dress?" said the visitor, seeing with astonishment that the
divine proposed to attend him in his plaid nightgown; "why, we shall have all the boys in the
village after us--you will look like an owl in sunshine, and they will flock round you like
so many hedge-sparrows."

"I will get my clothes instantly," said the worthy clergyman; "I will get ready directly--I
am really ashamed to keep you waiting, my dear Mr.--eh--eh--your name has this instant escaped me."

"It is Touchwood, sir, at your service; I do not believe you ever heard it before," answered
the traveller.

"True--right--no more I have--well, my good Mr. Touchstone, will you sit down an instant until
we see what we can do?--strange slaves we make ourselves to these bodies of ours, Mr. Touchstone--the
clothing and the sustaining of them costs us much thought and leisure, which might be better
employed in catering for the wants of our immortal spirits."

Mr. Touchwood thought in his heart that never had Bramin or Gymnosophist less reason to reproach
himself with excess in the indulgence of the table, or of the toilet, than the sage before
him; but he assented to the doctrine, as he would have done to any minor heresy, rather than
protract matters by farther discussing the point at present. In a short time the minister was
dressed in his Sunday's suit, without any farther mistake than turning one of his black stockings
inside out; and Mr. Touchwood, happy as was Boswell when he carried off Dr. Johnson in triumph
to dine with Strahan and John Wilkes, had the pleasure of escorting him to the Cleikum Inn.

In the course of the afternoon they became more familiar, and the familiarity led to their
forming a considerable estimate of each other's powers and acquirements. It is true, the traveller
thought the student too pedantic, too much attached to systems, which, formed in solitude,
he was unwilling to renounce, even when contradicted by the voice and testimony of experience;
and, moreover, considered his utter inattention to the quality of what he eat and drank, as
unworthy of a rational, that is, of a cooking creature, or of a being who, as defined by Johnson,
holds his dinner as the most important business of the day. Cargill did not act up to this
definition, and was, therefore, in the eyes of his new acquaintance, so far ignorant and uncivilized.
What then? He was still a sensible, intelligent man, however abstemious and bookish.

On the other hand, the divine could not help regarding his new friend as something of an epicure
or belly-god, nor could he observe in him either the perfect education, or the polished bearing,
which mark the gentleman of rank, and of which, while he mingled with the world, he had become
a competent judge. Neither did it escape him, that in the catalogue of Mr. Touchwood's defects,
occurred that of many travellers, a slight disposition to exaggerate his own personal adventures,
and to prose concerning his own exploits. But then, his acquaintance with Eastern manners,
existing now in the same state in which they were found during the time of the Crusades, formed
a living commentary on the works of William of Tyre, Raymund of Saint Giles, the Moslem annals
of Abulfaragi, and other historians of the dark period, with which his studies were at present
occupied.

A friendship, a companionship at least, was therefore struck up hastily betwixt these two originals;
and to the astonishment of the whole parish of St. Ronan's, the minister thereof was seen once
more leagued and united with an individual of his species, generally called among them the
Cleikum Nabob. Their intercourse sometimes consisted in long walks, which they took in company,
traversing, however, as limited a space of ground, as if it had been actually roped in for
their pedestrian exercise. Their parade was, according to circumstances, a low haugh at the
nether end of the ruinous hamlet, or the esplanade in the front of the old castle; and, in
either case, the direct longitude of their promenade never exceeded a hundred yards. Sometimes,
but rarely, the divine took share of Mr. Touchwood's meal, though less splendidly set forth
than when he was first invited to partake of it; for, like the owner of the gold cup in Parnell's
Hermit, when cured of his ostentation,

    ----"Still he welcomed, but with less of cost."

On these occasions, the conversation was not of the regular and compacted nature, which passes
betwixt men, as they are ordinarily termed, of this world. On the contrary, the one party was
often thinking of Saladin and Coeur de Lion, when the other was haranguing on Hyder Ali and
Sir Eyre Coote. Still, however, the one spoke, and the other seemed to listen; and, perhaps,
the lighter intercourse of society, where amusement is the sole object, can scarcely rest on
a safer and more secure basis.

It was on one of the evenings when the learned divine had taken his place at Mr. Touchwood's
social board, or rather at Mrs. Dods's,--for a cup of excellent tea, the only luxury which
Mr. Cargill continued to partake of with some complacence, was the regale before them,--that
a card was delivered to the Nabob.

    "Mr. and Miss Mowbray see company at Shaws-Castle on the twentieth
    current, at two o'clock--a déjeûner--dresses in character
    admitted--A dramatic picture."

"See company? the more fools they," he continued by way of comment. "See company?--choice phrases
are ever commendable--and this piece of pasteboard is to intimate that one may go and meet
all the fools of the parish, if they have a mind--in my time they asked the honour, or the
pleasure, of a stranger's company. I suppose, by and by, we shall have in this country the
ceremonial of a Bedouin's tent, where every ragged Hadgi, with his green turban, comes in slap
without leave asked, and has his black paw among the rice, with no other apology than Salam
Alicum.--'Dresses in character--Dramatic picture'--what new tomfoolery can that be?--but it
does not signify.--Doctor! I say Doctor!--but he is in the seventh heaven--I say, Mother Dods,
you who know all the news--Is this the feast that was put off until Miss Mowbray should be better?"

"Troth is it, Maister Touchwood--they are no in the way of giving twa entertainments in one
season--no very wise to gie ane maybe--but they ken best."

"I say, Doctor, Doctor!--Bless his five wits, he is charging the Moslemah with stout King Richard--I
say, Doctor, do you know any thing of these Mowbrays?"

"Nothing extremely particular," answered Mr. Cargill, after a pause; "it is an ordinary tale
of greatness, which blazes in one century, and is extinguished in the next. I think Camden
says, that Thomas Mowbray, who was Grand-Marshal of England, succeeded to that high office,
as well as to the Dukedom of Norfolk, as grandson of Roger Bigot, in 1301."

"Pshaw, man, you are back into the 14th century--I mean these Mowbrays of St. Ronan's--now,
don't fall asleep again until you have answered my question--and don't look so like a startled
hare--I am speaking no treason."

The clergyman floundered a moment, as is usual with an absent man who is recovering the train
of his ideas, or a somnambulist when he is suddenly awakened, and then answered, still with
hesitation,--

"Mowbray of St. Ronan's?--ha--eh--I know--that is--I did know the family."

"Here they are going to give a masquerade, a bal paré, private theatricals, I think, and what
not," handing him the card.

"I saw something of this a fortnight ago," said Mr. Cargill; "indeed, I either had a ticket
myself, or I saw such a one as that."

"Are you sure you did not attend the party, Doctor?" said the Nabob.

"Who attend? I? you are jesting, Mr. Touchwood."

"But are you quite positive?" demanded Mr. Touchwood, who had observed, to his infinite amusement,
that the learned and abstracted scholar was so conscious of his own peculiarities, as never
to be very sure on any such subject.

"Positive!" he repeated with embarrassment; "my memory is so wretched that I never like to
be positive--but had I done any thing so far out of my usual way, I must have remembered it,
one would think--and--I am positive I was not there."

"Neither could you, Doctor," said the Nabob, laughing at the process by which his friend reasoned
himself into confidence, "for it did not take place--it was adjourned, and this is the second
invitation--there will be one for you, as you had a card to the former.--Come, Doctor, you
must go--you and I will go together--I as an Imaum--I can say my Bismillah with any Hadgi of
them all--You as a cardinal, or what you like best."

"Who, I?--it is unbecoming my station, Mr. Touchwood," said the clergyman--"a folly altogether
inconsistent with my habits."

"All the better--you shall change your habits."

"You had better gang up and see them, Mr. Cargill," said Mrs. Dods; "for it's maybe the last
sight ye may see of Miss Mowbray--they say she is to be married and off to England ane of thae
odd-come-shortlies, wi' some of the gowks about the Waal down-by."

"Married!" said the clergyman; "it is impossible!"

"But where's the impossibility, Mr. Cargill, when ye see folk marry every day, and buckle them
yoursell into the bargain?--Maybe ye think the puir lassie has a bee in her bannet; but ye
ken yoursell if naebody but wise folk were to marry, the warld wad be ill peopled. I think
it's the wise folk that keep single, like yoursell and me, Mr. Cargill.--Gude guide us!--are
ye weel?--will ye taste a drap o' something?"

"Sniff at my ottar of roses," said Mr. Touchwood; "the scent would revive the dead--why, what
in the devil's name is the meaning of this?--you were quite well just now."

"A sudden qualm," said Mr. Cargill, recovering himself.

"Oh! Mr. Cargill," said Dame Dods, "this comes of your lang fasts."

"Right, dame," subjoined Mr. Touchwood; "and of breaking them with sour milk and pease bannock--the
least morsel of Christian food is rejected by stomach, just as a small gentleman refuses the
visit of a creditable neighbour, lest he see the nakedness of the land--ha! ha!"

"And there is really a talk of Miss Mowbray of St Ronan's being married?" said the clergyman.

"Troth is there," said the dame; "it's Trotting Nelly's news; and though she likes a drappie,
I dinna think she would invent a lee or carry ane--at least to me, that am a gude customer."

"This must be looked to," said Mr. Cargill, as if speaking to himself.

"In troth, and so it should," said Dame Dods; "it's a sin and a shame if they should employ
the tinkling cymbal they ca' Chatterly, and sic a Presbyterian trumpet as yoursell in the land,
Mr. Cargill; and if ye will take a fule's advice, ye winna let the multure be ta'en by your
ain mill, Mr. Cargill."

"True, true, good Mother Dods," said the Nabob; "gloves and hatbands are things to be looked
after, and Mr. Cargill had better go down to this cursed festivity with me, in order to see
after his own interest."

"I must speak with the young lady," said the clergyman, still in a brown study.

"Right, right, my boy of black-letter," said the Nabob; "with me you shall go, and we'll bring
them to submission to mother-church, I warrant you--Why, the idea of being cheated in such
a way, would scare a Santon out of his trance.--What dress will you wear?"

"My own, to be sure," said the divine, starting from his reverie.

"True, thou art right again--they may want to knit the knot on the spot, and who would be married
by a parson in masquerade?--We go to the entertainment though--it is a done thing."

The clergyman assented, provided he should receive an invitation; and as that was found at
the Manse, he had no excuse for retracting, even if he had seemed to desire one.

CHAPTER XVIII.

FORTUNE'S FROLICS.

    Count Basset. We gentlemen, whose carriages run on the four aces,
    are apt to have a wheel out of order.

The Provoked Husband.

Our history must now look a little backwards; and although it is rather foreign to our natural
style of composition, it must speak more in narrative, and less in dialogue, rather telling
what happened, than its effects upon the actors. Our purpose, however, is only conditional,
for we foresee temptations which may render it difficult for us exactly to keep it.

The arrival of the young Earl of Etherington at the salutiferous fountain of St. Ronan's had
produced the strongest sensation; especially, as it was joined with the singular accident of
the attempt upon his lordship's person, as he took a short cut through the woods on foot, at
a distance from his equipage and servants. The gallantry with which he beat off the highwayman,
was only equal to his generosity; for he declined making any researches after the poor devil,
although his lordship had received a severe wound in the scuffle.

Of the "three black Graces," as they have been termed by one of the most pleasant companions
of our time, Law and Physic hastened to do homage to Lord Etherington, represented by Mr. Meiklewham
and Dr. Quackleben; while Divinity, as favourable, though more coy, in the person of the Reverend
Mr. Simon Chatterly, stood on tiptoe to offer any service in her power.

For the honourable reason already assigned, his lordship, after thanking Mr. Meiklewham, and
hinting, that he might have different occasion for his services, declined his offer to search
out the delinquent by whom he had been wounded; while to the care of the Doctor he subjected
the cure of a smart flesh-wound in the arm, together with a slight scratch on the temple; and
so very genteel was his behaviour on the occasion, that the Doctor, in his anxiety for his
safety, enjoined him a month's course of the waters, if he would enjoy the comfort of a complete
and perfect recovery. Nothing so frequent, he could assure his lordship, as the opening of
cicatrized wounds; and the waters of St. Ronan's spring being, according to Dr. Quackleben,
a remedy for all the troubles which flesh is heir to, could not fail to equal those of Barege,
in facilitating the discharge of all splinters or extraneous matter, which a bullet may chance
to incorporate with the human frame, to its great annoyance. For he was wont to say, that although
he could not declare the waters which he patronised to be an absolute panpharmacon, yet he
would with word and pen maintain, that they possessed the principal virtues of the most celebrated
medicinal springs in the known world. In short, the love of Alpheus for Arethusa was a mere
jest, compared to that which the Doctor entertained for his favourite fountain.

The new and noble guest, whose arrival so much illustrated these scenes of convalescence and
of gaiety, was not at first seen so much at the ordinary, and other places of public resort,
as had been the hope of the worthy company assembled. His health and his wound proved an excuse
for making his visits to the society few and far between.

But when he did appear, his manners and person were infinitely captivating; and even the carnation-coloured
silk handkerchief, which suspended his wounded arm, together with the paleness and languor
which loss of blood had left on his handsome and open countenance, gave a grace to the whole
person which many of the ladies declared irresistible. All contended for his notice, attracted
at once by his affability, and piqued by the calm and easy nonchalance with which it seemed
to be blended. The scheming and selfish Mowbray, the coarse-minded and brutal Sir Bingo, accustomed
to consider themselves, and to be considered, as the first men of the party, sunk into comparative
insignificance. But chiefly Lady Penelope threw out the captivations of her wit and her literature;
while Lady Binks, trusting to her natural charms, endeavoured equally to attract his notice.
The other nymphs of the Spa held a little back, upon the principle of that politeness, which,
at continental hunting parties, affords the first shot at a fine piece of game, to the person
of the highest rank present; but the thought throbbed in many a fair bosom, that their ladyships
might miss their aim, in spite of the advantages thus allowed them, and that there might then
be room for less exalted, but perhaps not less skilful, markswomen, to try their chance.

But while the Earl thus withdrew from public society, it was necessary, at least natural, that
he should choose some one with whom to share the solitude of his own apartment; and Mowbray,
superior in rank to the half-pay whisky-drinking Captain MacTurk; in dash to Winterblossom,
who was broken down, and turned twaddler; and in tact and sense to Sir Bingo Binks, easily
manoeuvred himself into his lordship's more intimate society; and internally thanking the honest
footpad, whose bullet had been the indirect means of secluding his intended victim from all
society but his own, he gradually began to feel the way, and prove the strength of his antagonist,
at the various games of skill and hazard which he introduced, apparently with the sole purpose
of relieving the tedium of a sick-chamber.

Meiklewham, who felt, or affected, the greatest possible interest in his patron's success,
and who watched every opportunity to enquire how his schemes advanced, received at first such
favourable accounts as made him grin from ear to ear, rub his hands, and chuckle forth such
bursts of glee as only the success of triumphant roguery could have extorted from him. Mowbray
looked grave, however, and checked his mirth.

"There was something in it after all," he said, "that he could not perfectly understand. Etherington,
an used hand--d----d sharp--up to every thing, and yet he lost his money like a baby."

"And what the matter how he loses it, so you win it like a man?" said his legal friend and adviser.

"Why, hang it, I cannot tell," replied Mowbray--"were it not that I think he has scarce the
impudence to propose such a thing to succeed, curse me but I should think he was coming the
old soldier over me, and keeping up his game.--But no--he can scarce have the impudence to
think of that.--I find, however, that he has done Wolverine--cleaned out poor Tom--though Tom
wrote to me the precise contrary, yet the truth has since come out--Well, I shall avenge him,
for I see his lordship is to be had as well as other folk."

"Weel, Mr. Mowbray," said the lawyer, in a tone of affected sympathy, "ye ken your own ways
best--but the heavens will bless a moderate mind. I would not like to see you ruin this poor
lad, funditus, that is to say, out and out. To lose some of the ready will do him no great
harm, and maybe give him a lesson he may be the better of as long as he lives--but I wad not,
as an honest man, wish you to go deeper--you should spare the lad, Mr. Mowbray."

"Who spared me, Meiklewham?" said Mowbray, with a look and tone of deep emphasis--"No, no--he
must go through the mill--money and money's worth.--His seat is called Oakendale--think of
that, Mick--Oakendale! Oh, name of thrice happy augury!--Speak not of mercy, Mick--the squirrels
of Oakendale must be dismounted, and learn to go a-foot.--What mercy can the wandering lord
of Troy expect among the Greeks?--The Greeks!--I am a very Suliote--the bravest of Greeks.

    'I think not of pity, I think not of fear,
    He neither must know who would serve the Vizier.'

And necessity, Mick," he concluded, with a tone something altered, "necessity is as unrelenting
a leader as any Vizier or Pacha, whom Scanderbeg ever fought with, or Byron has sung."

Meiklewham echoed his patron's ejaculation with a sound betwixt a whine, a chuckle, and a groan;
the first being designed to express his pretended pity for the destined victim; the second
his sympathy with his patron's prospects of success; and the third being a whistle admonitory
of the dangerous courses through which his object was to be pursued.

Suliote as he boasted himself, Mowbray had, soon after this conversation, some reason to admit
that,

    "When Greek meets Greek, then comes the tug of war."

The light skirmishing betwixt the parties was ended, and the serious battle commenced with
some caution on either side; each perhaps, desirous of being master of his opponent's system
of tactics, before exposing his own. Piquet, the most beautiful game at which a man can make
sacrifice of his fortune, was one with which Mowbray had, for his misfortune perhaps, been
accounted, from an early age, a great proficient, and in which the Earl of Etherington, with
less experience, proved no novice. They now played for such stakes as Mowbray's state of fortune
rendered considerable to him, though his antagonist appeared not to regard the amount. And
they played with various success; for, though Mowbray at times returned with a smile of confidence
the enquiring looks of his friend Meiklewham, there were other occasions on which he seemed
to evade them, as if his own had a sad confession to make in reply.

These alternations, though frequent, did not occupy, after all, many days; for Mowbray, a friend
of all hours, spent much of his time in Lord Etherington's apartment, and these few days were
days of battle. In the meantime, as his lordship was now sufficiently recovered to join the
Party at Shaws-Castle, and Miss Mowbray's health being announced as restored, that proposal
was renewed, with the addition of a dramatic entertainment, the nature of which we shall afterwards
have occasion to explain. Cards were anew issued to all those who had been formerly included
in the invitation, and of course to Mr. Touchwood, as formerly a resident at the Well, and
now in the neighbourhood; it being previously agreed among the ladies, that a Nabob, though
sometimes a dingy or damaged commodity, was not to be rashly or unnecessarily neglected. As
to the parson, he had been asked, of course, as an old acquaintance of the Mowbray house, not
to be left out when the friends of the family were invited on a great scale; but his habits
were well known, and it was no more expected that he would leave his manse on such an occasion,
than that the kirk should loosen itself from its foundations.

It was after these arrangements had been made, that the Laird of St. Ronan's suddenly entered
Meiklewham's private apartment with looks of exultation. The worthy scribe turned his spectacled
nose towards his patron, and holding in one hand the bunch of papers which he had been just
perusing, and in the other the tape with which he was about to tie them up again, suspended
that operation to await with open eyes and ears the communication of Mowbray.

"I have done him!" he said, exultingly, yet in a tone of voice lowered almost to a whisper;
"capotted his lordship for this bout--doubled my capital, Mick, and something more.--Hush,
don't interrupt me--we must think of Clara now--she must share the sunshine, should it prove
but a blink before a storm.--You know, Mick, these two d----d women, Lady Penelope and the
Binks, have settled that they will have something like a bal paré on this occasion, a sort
of theatrical exhibition, and that those who like it shall be dressed in character.--I know
their meaning--they think Clara has no dress fit for such foolery, and so they hope to eclipse
her; Lady Pen, with her old-fashioned, ill-set diamonds, and my Lady Binks, with the new-fashioned
finery which she swopt her character for. But Clara shan't borne down so, by ----! I got that
affected slut, Lady Binks's maid, to tell me what her mistress had set her mind on, and she
is to wear a Grecian habit, forsooth, like one of Will Allan's Eastern subjects.--But here's
the rub--there is only one shawl for sale in Edinburgh that is worth showing off in, and that
is at the Gallery of Fashion.--Now, Mick, my friend, that shawl must be had for Clara, with
the other trankums of muslin and lace, and so forth, which you will find marked in the paper
there.--Send instantly and secure it, for, as Lady Binks writes by to-morrow's post, your order
can go by to-night's mail--There is a note for L.100."

From a mechanical habit of never refusing any thing, Meiklewham readily took the note, but
having looked at it through his spectacles, he continued to hold it in his hand as he remonstrated
with his patron.--"This is a' very kindly meant, St. Ronan's--very kindly meant; and I wad
be the last to say that Miss Clara does not merit respect and kindness at your hand; but I
doubt mickle if she wad care a bodle for thae braw things. Ye ken yoursell, she seldom alters
her fashions. Od, she thinks her riding-habit dress eneugh for ony company; and if you were
ganging by good looks, so it is--if she had a thought mair colour, poor dear."

"Well, well," said Mowbray, impatiently, "let me alone to reconcile a woman and a fine dress."

"To be sure, ye ken best," said the writer; "but, after a', now, wad it no be better to lay
by this hundred pound in Tam Turnpenny's, in case the young lady should want it afterhend,
just for a sair foot?"

"You are a fool, Mick; what signifies healing a sore foot, when there will be a broken heart
in the case?--No, no--get the things as I desire you--we will blaze them down for one day at
least; perhaps it will be the beginning of a proper dash."

"Weel, weel, I wish it may be so," answered Meiklewham; "but this young Earl--hae ye found
the weak point?--Can ye get a decerniture against him, with expenses?--that is the question."

"I wish I could answer it," said Mowbray, thoughtfully.--"Confound the fellow--he is a cut
above me in rank and in society too--belongs to the great clubs, and is in with the Superlatives
and Inaccessibles, and all that sort of folk.--My training has been a peg lower--but, hang
it, there are better dogs bred in the kennel than in the parlour. I am up to him, I think--at
least I will soon know, Mick, whether I am or no, and that is always one comfort. Never mind--do
you execute my commission, and take care you name no names--I must save my little Abigail's
reputation."

They parted, Meiklewham to execute his patron's commission--his patron to bring to the test
those hopes, the uncertainty of which he could not disguise from his own sagacity.

Trusting to the continuance of his run of luck, Mowbray resolved to bring affairs to a crisis
that same evening. Every thing seemed in the outset to favour his purpose. They had dined together
in Lord Etherington's apartments--his state of health interfered with the circulation of the
bottle, and a drizzly autumnal evening rendered walking disagreeable, even had they gone no
farther than the private stable where Lord Etherington's horses were kept, under the care of
a groom of superior skill. Cards were naturally, almost necessarily, resorted to, as the only
alternative for helping away the evening, and piquet was, as formerly, chosen for the game.

Lord Etherington seemed at first indolently careless and indifferent about his play, suffering
advantages to escape him, of which, in a more attentive state of mind, he could not have failed
to avail himself. Mowbray upbraided him with his inattention, and proposed a deeper stake,
in order to interest him in the game. The young nobleman complied; and in the course of a few
hands, the gamesters became both deeply engaged in watching and profiting by the changes of
fortune. These were so many, so varied, and so unexpected, that the very souls of the players
seemed at length centred in the event of the struggle; and, by dint of doubling stakes, the
accumulated sum of a thousand pounds and upwards, upon each side, came to be staked in the
issue of the game.--So large a risk included all those funds which Mowbray commanded by his
sister's kindness, and nearly all his previous winnings, so to him the alternative was victory
or ruin. He could not hide his agitation, however desirous to do so. He drank wine to supply
himself with courage--he drank water to cool his agitation; and at length bent himself to play
with as much care and attention as he felt himself enabled to command.

In the first part of the game their luck appeared tolerably equal, and the play of both befitting
gamesters who had dared to place such a sum on the cast. But, as it drew towards a conclusion,
fortune altogether deserted him who stood most in need of her favour, and Mowbray, with silent
despair, saw his fate depend on a single trick, and that with every odds against him, for Lord
Etherington was elder hand. But how can fortune's favour secure any one who is not true to
himself?--By an infraction of the laws of the game, which could only have been expected from
the veriest bungler that ever touched a card, Lord Etherington called a point without showing
it, and, by the ordinary rule, Mowbray was entitled to count his own--and in the course of
that and the next hand, gained the game and swept the stakes. Lord Etherington showed chagrin
and displeasure, and seemed to think that the rigour of the game had been more insisted upon
than in courtesy it ought to have been, when men were playing for so small a stake. Mowbray
did not understand this logic. A thousand pounds, he said, were in his eyes no nutshells; the
rules of piquet were insisted on by all but boys and women; and for his part, he had rather
not play at all than not play the game.

"So it would seem, my dear Mowbray," said the Earl; "for on my soul, I never saw so disconsolate
a visage as thine during that unlucky game--it withdrew all my attention from my hand; and
I may safely say, your rueful countenance has stood me in a thousand pounds. If I could transfer
thy long visage to canvass, I should have both my revenge and my money; for a correct resemblance
would be worth not a penny less than the original has cost me."

"You are welcome to your jest, my lord," said Mowbray, "it has been well paid for; and I will
serve you in ten thousand at the same rate. What say you?" he proceeded, taking up and shuffling
the cards, "will you do yourself more justice in another game?--Revenge, they say, is sweet."

"I have no appetite for it this evening," said the Earl, gravely; "if I had, Mowbray, you might
come by the worse. I do not always call a point without showing it."

"Your lordship is out of humour with yourself for a blunder that might happen to any man--it
was as much my good luck as a good hand would have been, and so fortune be praised."

"But what if with this Fortune had nought to do?" replied Lord Etherington.--"What if, sitting
down with an honest fellow and a friend like yourself, Mowbray, a man should rather choose
to lose his own money, which he could afford, than to win what it might distress his friend
to part with?"

"Supposing a case so far out of supposition, my lord," answered Mowbray, who felt the question
ticklish--"for, with submission, the allegation is easily made, and is totally incapable of
proof--I should say, no one had a right to think for me in such a particular, or to suppose
that I played for a higher stake than was convenient."

"And thus your friend, poor devil," replied Lord Etherington, "would lose his money, and run
the risk of a quarrel into the boot!--We will try it another way--Suppose this good-humoured
and simple-minded gamester had a favour of the deepest import to ask of his friend, and judged
it better to prefer his request to a winner than to a loser?"

"If this applies to me, my lord," replied Mowbray, "it is necessary I should learn how I can
oblige your lordship."

"That is a word soon spoken, but so difficult to be recalled, that I am almost tempted to pause--but
yet it must be said.--Mowbray, you have a sister."

Mowbray started.--"I have indeed a sister, my lord; but I can conceive no case in which her
name can enter with propriety into our present discussion."

"Again in the menacing mood!" said Lord Etherington, in his former tone; "now, here is a pretty
fellow--he would first cut my throat for having won a thousand pounds from me, and then for
offering to make his sister a countess!"

"A countess, my lord?" said Mowbray; "you are but jesting--you have never even seen Clara Mowbray."

"Perhaps not--but what then?--I may have seen her picture, as Puff says in the Critic, or fallen
in love with her from rumour--or, to save farther suppositions, as I see they render you impatient,
I may be satisfied with knowing that she is a beautiful and accomplished young lady, with a
large fortune."

"What fortune do you mean, my lord?" said Mowbray, recollecting with alarm some claims, which,
according to Meiklewham's view of the subject, his sister might form upon his property.--"What
estate?--there is nothing belongs to our family, save these lands of St. Ronan's, or what is
left of them; and of these I am, my lord, an undoubted heir of entail in possession."

"Be it so," said the Earl, "for I have no claim on your mountain realms here, which are, doubtless,

    ----'renown'd of old
    For knights, and squires, and barons bold;'

my views respect a much richer, though less romantic domain--a large manor, hight Nettlewood.
House old, but standing in the midst of such glorious oaks--three thousand acres of land, arable,
pasture, and woodland, exclusive of the two closes, occupied by Widow Hodge and Goodman Trampclod--manorial
rights--mines and minerals--and the devil knows how many good things besides, all lying in
the vale of Bever."

"And what has my sister to do with all this?" asked Mowbray, in great surprise.

"Nothing; but that it belongs to her when she becomes Countess of Etherington."

"It is, then, your lordship's property already?"

"No, by Jove! nor can it, unless your sister honours me with her approbation of my suit," replied
the Earl.

"This is a sorer puzzle than one of Lady Penelope's charades, my lord," said Mr. Mowbray; "I
must call in the assistance of the Reverend Mr. Chatterly."

"You shall not need," said Lord Etherington; "I will give you the key, but listen to me with
patience.--You know that we nobles of England, less jealous of our sixteen quarters than those
on the continent, do not take scorn to line our decayed ermines with the little cloth of gold
from the city; and my grandfather was lucky enough to get a wealthy wife, with a halting pedigree,--rather
a singular circumstance, considering that her father was a countryman of yours. She had a brother,
however, still more wealthy than herself, and who increased his fortune by continuing to carry
on the trade which had first enriched his family. At length he summed up his books, washed
his hands of commerce, and retired to Nettlewood, to become a gentleman; and here my much respected
grand-uncle was seized with the rage of making himself a man of consequence. He tried what
marrying a woman of family would do; but he soon found that whatever advantage his family might
derive from his doing so, his own condition was but little illustrated. He next resolved to
become a man of family himself. His father had left Scotland when very young, and bore, I blush
to say, the vulgar name of Scrogie. This hapless dissyllable my uncle carried in person to
the herald office in Scotland; but neither Lyon, nor Marchmont, nor Islay, nor Snadoun, neither
herald nor pursuivant, would patronise Scrogie.--Scrogie!--there could nothing be made out
of it--so that my worthy relative had recourse to the surer side of the house, and began to
found his dignity on his mother's name of Mowbray. In this he was much more successful, and
I believe some sly fellow stole for him a slip from your own family tree, Mr. Mowbray of St.
Ronan's, which, I daresay, you have never missed. At any rate, for his argent and or, he got
a handsome piece of parchment, blazoned with a white lion for Mowbray, to be borne quarterly,
with three stunted or scrog-bushes for Scrogie, and became thenceforth Mr. Scrogie Mowbray,
or rather, as he subscribed himself, Reginald (his former Christian name was Ronald) S. Mowbray.
He had a son who most undutifully laughed at all this, refused the honours of the high name
of Mowbray, and insisted on retaining his father's original appellative of Scrogie, to the
great annoyance of his said father's ears, and damage of his temper."

"Why, faith, betwixt the two," said Mowbray, "I own I should have preferred my own name, and
I think the old gentleman's taste rather better than the young one's."

"True; but both were wilful, absurd originals, with a happy obstinacy of temper, whether derived
from Mowbray or Scrogie I know not, but which led them so often into opposition, that the offended
father, Reginald S. Mowbray, turned his recusant son Scrogie fairly out of doors; and the fellow
would have paid for his plebeian spirit with a vengeance, had he not found refuge with a surviving
partner of the original Scrogie of all, who still carried on the lucrative branch of traffic
by which the family had been first enriched. I mention these particulars to account, in so
far as I can, for the singular predicament in which I now find myself placed."

"Proceed, my lord," said Mr. Mowbray; "there is no denying the singularity of your story, and
I presume you are quite serious in giving me such an extraordinary detail."

"Entirely so, upon my honour--and a most serious matter it is, you will presently find. When
my worthy uncle, Mr. S. Mowbray, (for I will not call him Scrogie even in the grave,) paid
his debt to nature, every body concluded he would be found to have disinherited his son, the
unfilial Scrogie, and so far every body was right--But it was also generally believed that
he would settle the estate on my father, Lord Etherington, the son of his sister, and therein
every one was wrong. For my excellent grand-uncle had pondered with himself, that the favoured
name of Mowbray would take no advantage, and attain no additional elevation, if his estate
of Nettlewood (otherwise called Mowbray-Park) should descend to our family without any condition;
and with the assistance of a sharp attorney, he settled it on me, then a schoolboy, on condition
that I should, before attaining the age of twenty-five complete, take unto myself in holy wedlock
a young lady of good fame, of the name of Mowbray, and, by preference, of the house of St.
Ronan's, should a damsel of that house exist.--Now my riddle is read."

"And a very extraordinary one it is," replied Mowbray, thoughtfully.

"Confess the truth," said Lord Etherington, laying his hand on his shoulder; "you think the
story will bear a grain of a scruple of doubt, if not a whole scruple itself?"

"At least, my lord," answered Mowbray, "your lordship will allow, that, being Miss Mowbray's
only near relation, and sole guardian, I may, without offence, pause upon a suit for her hand,
made under such odd circumstances."

"If you have the least doubt either respecting my rank or fortune, I can give, of course, the
most satisfactory references," said the Earl of Etherington.

"That I can easily believe, my lord," said Mowbray; "nor do I in the least fear deception,
where detection would be so easy. Your lordship's proceedings towards me, too," (with a conscious
glance at the bills he still held in his hand,) "have, I admit, been such as to intimate some
such deep cause of interest as you have been pleased to state. But it seems strange that your
lordship should have permitted years to glide away, without so much as enquiring after the
young lady, who, I believe, is the only person qualified as your grand-uncle's will requires,
with whom you can form an alliance. It appears to me, that long before now, this matter ought
to have been investigated; and that, even now, it would have been more natural and more decorous
to have at least seen my sister before proposing for her hand."

"On the first point, my dear Mowbray," said Lord Etherington, "I am free to own to you, that,
without meaning your sister the least affront, I would have got rid of this clause if I could;
for every man would fain choose a wife for himself, and I feel no hurry to marry at all. But
the rogue-lawyers, after taking fees, and keeping me in hand for years, have at length roundly
told me the clause must be complied with, or Nettlewood must have another master. So I thought
it best to come down here in person, in order to address the fair lady; but as accident has
hitherto prevented my seeing her, and as I found in her brother a man who understands the world,
I hope you will not think the worse of me, that I have endeavoured in the outset to make you
my friend. Truth is, I shall be twenty-five in the course of a month; and without your favour,
and the opportunities which only you can afford me, that seems a short time to woo and win
a lady of Miss Mowbray's merit."

"And what is the alternative if you do not form this proposed alliance, my lord?" said Mowbray.

"The bequest of my grand-uncle lapses," said the Earl, "and fair Nettlewood, with its old house,
and older oaks, manorial rights, Hodge Trampclod, and all, devolves on a certain cousin-german
of mine, whom Heaven of his mercy confound!"

"You have left yourself little time to prevent such an event, my lord," said Mowbray; "but
things being as I now see them, you shall have what interest I can give you in the affair.--We
must stand, however, on more equal terms, my lord--I will condescend so far as to allow it
would have been inconvenient for me at this moment to have lost that game, but I cannot in
the circumstances think of acting as if I had fairly won it. We must draw stakes, my lord."

"Not a word of that, if you really mean me kindly, my dear Mowbray. The blunder was a real
one, for I was indeed thinking, as you may suppose, on other things than the showing my point--All
was fairly lost and won.--I hope I shall have opportunities of offering real services, which
may perhaps give me some right to your partial regard--at present we are on equal footing on
all sides--perfectly so."

"If your lordship thinks so," said Mowbray,--and then passing rapidly to what he felt he could
say with more confidence,--"Indeed, at any rate, no personal obligation to myself could prevent
my doing my full duty as guardian to my sister."

"Unquestionably, I desire nothing else," replied the Earl of Etherington.

"I must therefore understand that your lordship is quite serious in your proposal; and that
it is not to be withdrawn, even if upon acquaintance with Miss Mowbray, you should not perhaps
think her so deserving of your lordship's attentions, as report may have spoken her."

"Mr. Mowbray," replied the Earl, "the treaty between you and me shall be as definite as if
I were a sovereign prince, demanding in marriage the sister of a neighbouring monarch, whom,
according to royal etiquette, he neither has seen nor could see. I have been quite frank with
you, and I have stated to you that my present motives for entering upon negotiation are not
personal, but territorial; when I know Miss Mowbray, I have no doubt they will be otherwise.
I have heard she is beautiful."

"Something of the palest, my lord," answered Mowbray.

"A fine complexion is the first attraction which is lost in the world of fashion, and that
which it is easiest to replace."

"Dispositions, my lord, may differ," said Mowbray, "without faults on either side. I presume
your lordship has enquired into my sister's. She is amiable, accomplished, sensible, and high-spirited;
but yet"----

"I understand you, Mr. Mowbray, and will spare you the pain of speaking out. I have heard Miss
Mowbray is in some respects--particular; to use a broader word--a little whimsical.--No matter.
She will have the less to learn when she becomes a countess, and a woman of fashion."

"Are you serious, my lord?" said Mowbray.

"I am--and I will speak my mind still more plainly. I have good temper, and excellent spirits,
and can endure a good deal of singularity in those I live with. I have no doubt your sister
and I will live happily together--But in case it should prove otherwise, arrangements may be
made previously, which will enable us in certain circumstances to live happily apart. My own
estate is large, and Nettlewood will bear dividing."

"Nay, then," said Mowbray, "I have little more to say--nothing indeed remains for enquiry,
so far as your lordship is concerned. But my sister must have free liberty of choice--so far
as I am concerned, your lordship's suit has my interest."

"And I trust we may consider it as a done thing?"

"With Clara's approbation--certainly," answered Mowbray.

"I trust there is no chance of personal repugnance on the young lady's part?" said the young peer.

"I anticipate nothing of the kind, my lord," answered Mowbray, "as I presume there is no reason
for any; but young ladies will be capricious, and if Clara, after I have done and said all
that a brother ought to do, should remain repugnant, there is a point in the exertion of my
influence which it would be cruelty to pass."

The Earl of Etherington walked a turn through the apartment, then paused, and said, in a grave
and doubtful tone, "In the meanwhile, I am bound, and the young lady is free, Mowbray. Is this
quite fair?"

"It is what happens in every case, my lord, where a gentleman proposes for a lady," answered
Mowbray; "he must remain, of course, bound by his offer, until, within a reasonable time, it
is accepted or rejected. It is not my fault that your lordship has declared your wishes to
me, before ascertaining Clara's inclination. But while as yet the matter is between ourselves--I
make you welcome to draw back if you think proper. Clara Mowbray needs not push for a catch-match."

"Nor do I desire," said the young nobleman, "any time to reconsider the resolution which I
have confided to you. I am not in the least fearful that I shall change my mind on seeing your
sister, and I am ready to stand by the proposal which I have made to you.--If, however, you
feel so extremely delicately on my account," he continued, "I can see and even converse with
Miss Mowbray at this fête of yours, without the necessity of being at all presented to her--The
character which I have assumed in a manner obliges me to wear a mask."

"Certainly," said the Laird of St. Ronan's, "and I am glad, for both our sakes, your lordship
thinks of taking a little law upon this occasion."

"I shall profit nothing by it," said the Earl; "my doom is fixed before I start--but if this
mode of managing the matter will save your conscience, I have no objection to it--it cannot
consume much time, which is what I have to look to."

They then shook hands and parted, without any farther discourse which could interest the reader.

Mowbray was glad to find himself alone, in order to think over what had happened, and to ascertain
the state of his own mind, which at present was puzzling even to himself. He could not but
feel that much greater advantages of every kind might accrue to himself and his family from
the alliance of the wealthy young Earl, than could have been derived from any share of his
spoils which he had proposed to gain by superior address in play, or greater skill on the turf.
But his pride was hurt when he recollected that he had placed himself entirely in Lord Etherington's
power; and the escape from absolute ruin which he had made, solely by the sufferance of his
opponent, had nothing in it consolatory to his wounded feelings. He was lowered in his own
eyes, when he recollected how completely the proposed victim of his ingenuity had seen through
his schemes, and only abstained from baffling them entirely, because to do so suited best with
his own. There was a shade of suspicion, too, which he could not entirely eradicate from his
mind.--What occasion had this young nobleman to preface, by the voluntary loss of a brace of
thousands, a proposal which must have been acceptable in itself, without any such sacrifice?
And why should he, after all, have been so eager to secure his accession to the proposed alliance,
before he had even seen the lady who was the object of it? However hurried for time, he might
have waited the event at least of the entertainment at Shaws-Castle, at which Clara was necessarily
obliged to make her appearance.--Yet such conduct, however unusual, was equally inconsistent
with any sinister intentions; since the sacrifice of a large sum of money, and the declaration
of his views upon a portionless young lady of family, could scarcely be the preface to any
unfair practice. So that, upon the whole, Mowbray settled, that what was uncommon in the Earl's
conduct arose from the hasty and eager disposition of a rich young Englishman, to whom money
is of little consequence, and who is too headlong in pursuit of the favourite plan of the moment,
to proceed in the most rational or most ordinary manner. If, however, there should prove any
thing farther in the matter than he could at present discover, Mowbray promised himself that
the utmost circumspection on his part could not fail to discover it, and that in full time
to prevent any ill consequences to his sister or himself.

Immersed in such cogitations, he avoided the inquisitive presence of Mr. Meiklewham, who, as
usual, had been watching for him to learn how matters were going on; and although it was now
late, he mounted his horse, and rode hastily to Shaws-Castle. On the way, he deliberated with
himself whether to mention to his sister the application which had been made to him, in order
to prepare her to receive the young Earl as a suitor, favoured with her brother's approbation.
"But no, no, no;" such was the result of his contemplation. "She might take it into her head
that his thoughts were bent less upon having her for a countess, than on obtaining possession
of his grand-uncle's estate.--We must keep quiet," concluded he, "until her personal appearance
and accomplishments may appear at least to have some influence upon his choice.--We must say
nothing till this blessed entertainment has been given and received."

CHAPTER XIX.

A LETTER.

    "Has he so long held out with me untired,
    And stops he now for breath?--Well--Be it so."

Richard III.

Mowbray had no sooner left the Earl's apartment, than the latter commenced an epistle to a
friend and associate, which we lay before the reader, as best calculated to illustrate the
views and motives of the writer. It was addressed to Captain Jekyl, of the ---- regiment of
Guards, at the Green Dragon, Harrowgate, and was of the following tenor:--

    "Dear Harry,

    "I have expected you here these ten days past, anxiously as ever man
    was looked for; and have now to charge your absence as high treason
    to your sworn allegiance. Surely you do not presume, like one of
    Napoleon's new-made monarchs, to grumble for independence, as if
    your greatness were of your own making, or as if I had picked you
    out of the whole of St. James's coffee-house to hold my back-hand,
    for your sake, forsooth, not for my own? Wherefore, lay aside all
    your own proper business, be it the pursuit of dowagers, or the
    plucking of pigeons, and instantly repair to this place, where I may
    speedily want your assistance.--May want it, said I? Why, most
    negligent of friends and allies, I have wanted it already, and
    that when it might have done me yeoman's service. Know that I have
    had an affair since I came hither--have got hurt myself, and have
    nearly shot my friend; and if I had, I might have been hanged for
    it, for want of Harry Jekyl to bear witness in my favour. I was so
    far on my road to this place, when, not choosing, for certain
    reasons, to pass through the old village, I struck by a footpath
    into the woods which separate it from the new Spa, leaving my
    carriage and people to go the carriage-way. I had not walked half a
    mile when I heard the footsteps of some one behind, and, looking
    round, what should I behold but the face in the world which I most
    cordially hate and abhor--I mean that which stands on the shoulders
    of my right trusty and well-beloved cousin and counsellor, Saint
    Francis. He seemed as much confounded as I was at our unexpected
    meeting; and it was a minute ere he found breath to demand what I
    did in Scotland, contrary to my promise, as he was pleased to
    express it.--I retaliated, and charged him with being here, in
    contradiction to his.--He justified, and said he had only come down
    upon the express information that I was upon my road to St.
    Ronan's.--Now, Harry, how the devil should he have known this hadst
    thou been quite faithful? for I am sure, to no ear but thine own did
    I breathe a whisper of my purpose.--Next, with the insolent
    assumption of superiority, which he founds on what he calls the
    rectitude of his purpose, he proposed we should both withdraw from a
    neighbourhood into which we could bring nothing but wretchedness.--I
    have told you how difficult it is to cope with the calm and resolute
    manner that the devil gifts him with on such occasions; but I was
    determined he should not carry the day this time. I saw no chance
    for it, however, but to put myself into a towering passion, which,
    thank Heaven, I can always do on short notice.--I charged him with
    having imposed formerly on my youth, and made himself judge of my
    rights; and I accompanied my defiance with the strongest terms of
    irony and contempt, as well as with demand of instant satisfaction.
    I had my travelling pistols with me, (et pour cause,) and, to my
    surprise, my gentleman was equally provided.--For fair play's sake,
    I made him take one of my pistols--right Kuchenritters--a brace of
    balls in each, but that circumstance I forgot.--I would fain have
    argued the matter a little longer; but I thought at the time, and
    think still, that the best arguments which he and I can exchange,
    must come from the point of the sword, or the muzzle of the
    pistol.--We fired nearly together, and I think both dropped--I am
    sure I did, but recovered in a minute, with a damaged arm and a
    scratch on the temple--it was the last which stunned me--so much for
    double-loaded pistols.--My friend was invisible, and I had nothing
    for it but to walk to the Spa, bleeding all the way like a calf, and
    tell a raw-head-and-bloody-bone story about a footpad, which, but
    for my earldom, and my gory locks, no living soul would have
    believed.

    "Shortly after, when I had been installed in a sick room, I had the
    mortification to learn, that my own impatience had brought all this
    mischief upon me, at a moment when I had every chance of getting rid
    of my friend without trouble, had I but let him go on his own
    errand; for it seems he had an appointment that morning with a booby
    Baronet, who is said to be a bullet-slitter, and would perhaps have
    rid me of Saint Francis without any trouble or risk on my part.
    Meantime, his non-appearance at this rendezvous has placed Master
    Francis Tyrrel, as he chooses to call himself, in the worst odour
    possible with the gentry at the Spring, who have denounced him as a
    coward and no gentleman.--What to think of the business myself, I
    know not; and I much want your assistance to see what can have
    become of this fellow, who, like a spectre of ill omen, has so often
    thwarted and baffled my best plans. My own confinement renders me
    inactive, though my wound is fast healing. Dead he cannot be; for,
    had he been mortally wounded, we should have heard of him somewhere
    or other--he could not have vanished from the earth like a bubble of
    the elements. Well and sound he cannot be; for, besides that I am
    sure I saw him stagger and drop, firing his pistol as he fell, I
    know him well enough to swear, that, had he not been severely
    wounded, he would have first pestered me with his accursed presence
    and assistance, and then walked forward with his usual composure to
    settle matters with Sir Bingo Binks. No--no--Saint Francis is none
    of those who leave such jobs half finished--it is but doing him
    justice to say, he has the devil's courage to back his own
    deliberate impertinence. But then, if wounded severely, he must be
    still in this neighbourhood, and probably in concealment--this is
    what I must discover, and I want your assistance in my enquiries
    among the natives.--Haste hither, Harry, as ever you look for good
    at my hand.

    "A good player, Harry, always studies to make the best of bad
    cards--and so I have endeavoured to turn my wound to some account;
    and it has given me the opportunity to secure Monsieur le Frere in
    my interests. You say very truly, that it is of consequence to me to
    know the character of this new actor on the disordered scene of my
    adventures.--Know, then, he is that most incongruous of all
    monsters--a Scotch Buck--how far from being buck of the season you
    may easily judge. Every point of national character is opposed to
    the pretensions of this luckless race, when they attempt to take on
    them a personage which is assumed with so much facility by their
    brethren of the Isle of Saints. They are a shrewd people, indeed,
    but so destitute of ease, grace, pliability of manners, and
    insinuation of address, that they eternally seem to suffer actual
    misery in their attempts to look gay and careless. Then their pride
    heads them back at one turn, their poverty at another, their
    pedantry at a third, their mauvaise honte at a fourth; and with
    so many obstacles to make them bolt off the course, it is positively
    impossible they should win the plate. No, Harry, it is the grave
    folk in Old England who have to fear a Caledonian invasion--they
    will make no conquests in the world of fashion. Excellent bankers
    the Scots may be, for they are eternally calculating how to add
    interest to principal;--good soldiers, for they are, if not such
    heroes as they would be thought, as brave, I suppose, as their
    neighbours, and much more amenable to discipline;--lawyers they are
    born; indeed every country gentleman is bred one, and their patient
    and crafty disposition enables them, in other lines, to submit to
    hardships which other natives could not bear, and avail themselves
    of advantages which others would let pass under their noses
    unavailingly. But assuredly Heaven did not form the Caledonian for
    the gay world; and his efforts at ease, grace, and gaiety, resemble
    only the clumsy gambols of the ass in the fable. Yet the Scot has
    his sphere too, (in his own country only,) where the character which
    he assumes is allowed to pass current. This Mowbray, now--this
    brother-in-law of mine--might do pretty well at a Northern Meeting,
    or the Leith races, where he could give five minutes to the sport of
    the day, and the next half hour to county politics, or to farming;
    but it is scarce necessary to tell you, Harry, that this half
    fellowship will not pass on the better side of the Tweed.

    "Yet, for all I have told you, this trout was not easily tickled;
    nor should I have made much of him, had he not, in the plenitude of
    his northern conceit, entertained that notion of my being a good
    subject of plunder, which you had contrived (blessings on your
    contriving brain!) to insinuate into him by means of Wolverine. He
    commenced this hopeful experiment, and, as you must have
    anticipated, caught a Tartar with a vengeance. Of course, I used my
    victory only so far as to secure his interest in accomplishing my
    principal object; and yet, I could see my gentleman's pride was so
    much injured in the course of the negotiation, that not all the
    advantages which the match offered to his damned family, were able
    entirely to subdue the chagrin arising from his defeat. He did gulp
    it down, though, and we are friends and allies, for the present at
    least--not so cordially so, however, as to induce me to trust him
    with the whole of the strangely complicated tale. The circumstance
    of the will it was necessary to communicate, as affording a
    sufficiently strong reason for urging my suit; and this partial
    disclosure enabled me for the present to dispense with farther
    confidence.

    "You will observe, that I stand by no means secure; and besides the
    chance of my cousin's reappearance--a certain event, unless he is
    worse than I dare hope for--I have perhaps to expect the fantastic
    repugnance of Clara herself, or some sulky freak on her brother's
    part.--In a word--and let it be such a one as conjurers raise the
    devil with--Harry Jekyl, I want you.

    "As well knowing the nature of my friend, I can assure you that his
    own interest, as well as mine, may be advanced by his coming hither
    on duty. Here is a blockhead, whom I already mentioned, Sir Bingo
    Binks, with whom something may be done worth your while, though
    scarce worth mine. The Baronet is a perfect buzzard, and when I
    came here he was under Mowbray's training. But the awkward Scot had
    plucked half-a-dozen penfeathers from his wing with so little
    precaution, that the Baronet has become frightened and shy, and is
    now in the act of rebelling against Mowbray, whom he both hates and
    fears--the least backing from a knowing hand like you, and the bird
    becomes your own, feathers and all.--Moreover,

            ----'by my life,
    This Bingo hath a mighty pretty wife.'

    A lovely woman, Harry--rather plump, and above the middle
    size--quite your taste--A Juno in beauty, looking with such scorn on
    her husband, whom she despises and hates, and seeming, as if she
    could look so differently on any one whom she might like better,
    that, on my faith, 'twere sin not to give her occasion. If you
    please to venture your luck, either with the knight or the lady, you
    shall have fair play, and no interference--that is, provided you
    appear upon this summons; for, otherwise, I may be so placed, that
    the affairs of the knight and the lady may fall under my own
    immediate cognizance. And so, Harry, if you wish to profit by these
    hints, you had best make haste, as well for your own concerns, as to
    assist me in mine.--Yours, Harry, as you behave yourself,

    "ETHERINGTON."

Having finished this eloquent and instructive epistle, the young Earl demanded the attendance
of his own valet Solmes, whom he charged to put it into the post-office without delay, and
with his own hand.

AUTHOR'S NOTES.

Note I., p. 14.--BUILDING-FEUS IN SCOTLAND.

In Scotland a village is erected upon a species of landright, very different from the copyhold
so frequent in England. Every alienation or sale of landed property must be made in the shape
of a feudal conveyance, and the party who acquires it holds thereby an absolute and perfect
right of property in the fief, while he discharges the stipulations of the vassal, and, above
all, pays the feu-duties. The vassal or tenant of the site of the smallest cottage holds his
possession as absolutely as the proprietor, of whose large estate it is perhaps scarce a perceptible
portion. By dint of excellent laws, the sasines, or deeds of delivery of such fiefs, are placed
on record in such order, that every burden affecting the property can be seen for payment of
a very moderate fee; so that a person proposing to lend money upon it, knows exactly the nature
and extent of his security.

From the nature of these landrights being so explicit and secure, the Scottish people have
been led to entertain a jealousy of building-leases, of however long duration. Not long ago,
a great landed proprietor took the latter mode of disposing of some ground near a thriving
town in the west country. The number of years in the lease was settled at nine hundred and
ninety-nine. All was agreed to, and the deeds were ordered to be drawn. But the tenant, as
he walked down the avenue, began to reflect that the lease, though so very long as to be almost
perpetual, nevertheless had a termination; and that after the lapse of a thousand years, lacking
one, the connexion of his family and representatives with the estate would cease. He took a
qualm at the thought of the loss to be sustained by his posterity a thousand years hence; and
going back to the house of the gentleman who feued the ground, he demanded, and readily obtained,
the additional term of fifty years to be added to the lease.

Note II., p. 90.--DARK LADYE.

The Dark Ladye is one of those tantalizing fragments, in which Mr. Coleridge has shown us what
exquisite powers of poetry he has suffered to remain uncultivated. The verses beginning the
poem which are published separately, are said to have soothed the last hours of Mr. Fox. They
are the stanzas entitled LOVE.

Note III., p. 252.--MAGO-PICO.

This satire, very popular even in Scotland, at least with one party, was composed at the expense
of a reverend presbyterian divine, of whom many stories are preserved, being Mr. Pyet, the
Mago-Pico of the Tale, minister of Dunbar. The work is now little known in Scotland, and not
at all in England, though written with much strong and coarse humour, resembling the style
of Arbuthnot. It was composed by Mr. Haliburton, a military chaplain. The distresses attending
Mago-Pico's bachelor life, are thus stated:--

    "At the same time I desire you will only figure out to yourself his
    situation during his celibacy in the ministerial charge--a house
    lying all heaps upon heaps; his bed ill-made, swarming with fleas,
    and very cold on the winter nights; his sheep's-head not to be eaten
    for wool and hair, his broth singed, his bread mouldy, his lamb and
    pig all scouthered, his house neither washed nor plastered; his
    black stockings darned with white worsted above the shoes; his
    butter made into cat's harns; his cheese one heap of mites and
    maggots, and full of large avenues for rats and mice to play at
    hide-and-seek and make their nests in. Frequent were the admonitions
    he had given his maid-servants on this score, and every now and then
    he was turning them off; but still the last was the worst, and in
    the meanwhile the poor man was the sufferer. At any rate, therefore,
    matrimony must turn to his account, though his wife should prove to
    be nothing but a creature of the feminine gender, with a tongue in
    her head, and ten fingers on her hands, to clear out the papers of
    the housemaid, not to mention the convenience of a man's having it
    in his power lawfully to beget sons and daughters in his own
    house."--Memoirs of Mago-Pico. Second edition. Edinburgh, 1761, p.
    19.

EDITOR'S NOTES.

[I-A] p. 1. "David M'Pherson's map." In his "Geographical History," London, 4to, 1796.

[I-B] p. 11. "Jenny Dods ... at Howgate." Scott admitted to Erskine that the name of "Dods"
was borrowed from this slatternly heroine.

[I-C] p. 33. "He was nae Roman, but only a Cuddie, or Culdee." Some Scottish Protestants took
pride in believing that their Kirk descended from Culdees, who were not of the Roman Communion.
The Culdees have given rise to a world of dispute, and he would be a bold man who pretended
to understand their exact position. The name seems to be Cele De, "servant [gillie] of God."
They were not Columban monks, but fill a gap between the expulsion of the Columbans by the
Picts, and the Anglicising and Romanising of the Scottish Church by St. Margaret and her sons.
Originally solitary ascetics, they clustered into groups, and, if we are to believe their supplanters
at St. Andrews, the Canons Regular, they were married men, and used church property for family
profit. Their mass they celebrated with a rite of their own, in their little church. They were
gradually merged in, and overpowered at St. Andrews, for example, by the Canons Regular, and
are last heard of in prosecuting a claim to elect the Bishop, at the time of Edward the First's
interference with Scottish affairs. The points on which they differed from Roman practice would
probably have seemed very insignificant to such a theologian as Meg Dods.

[I-D] p. 47. "Fortunio, in the fairy-tale." The gifted companions of Fortunio, Keen-eye, Keen-ear,
and so forth, are very old stock characters in Märchen: their first known appearance is in
the saga of Jason and the Fleece of Gold.

[I-E] p. 169. "The sportsman's sense of his own cruelty." In the reminiscences of Captain Basil
Hall, published by Lockhart, he mentions that Scott himself had a dislike of shooting, from
a sentiment as to the cruelty of the sport. "I was never quite at ease when I had knocked down
my blackcock, and going to pick him up he cast back his dying eye with a look of reproach.
I don't affect to be more squeamish than my neighbours, but I am not ashamed to say that no
practice ever reconciled me fully to the cruelty of the affair. At all events, now that I can
do as I like without fear of ridicule, I take more pleasure in seeing the birds fly past me
unharmed." (Lockhart, vii. 331.)

[I-F] p. 240. "Tintock." A hill on the Upper Tweed, celebrated in local rhyme as--

    On Tintock tap there is a mist,
    And in the mist there is a kist,
    And in the kist there is a cap,
    And in the cap there is a drap.
    Tak' up the cap, drink out the drap,
    And set it down on Tintock tap.

[I-G] p. 245. "Donald Cargill." See Editor's Notes to "Redgauntlet." Howie of Lochgoin says
Cargill was executed in Edinburgh, not at Queensferry, as stated here.

ANDREW LANG December 1893.

GLOSSARY.

A', all

"A. B. Memorial," a legal statement which does not give the names of the parties concerned.

Abee, alone.

Ae, one.

Aff, off.

Afterhend, afterwards.

Ain, own.

Airn, iron.

Ajee, awry.

Amaist, almost.

Andrew Ferrara, a sword.

Ane, one.

Assoilzie, to acquit.

Asteer, astir.

Atween, between.

Aught, possession; to own, to possess.

Auld, old. "Auld lang syne," the days of long ago.

Aw, all.

Awa, away.

Awing, owing, or bill.

Awmry, a cupboard.

Bairn, a child.

Baith, both.

Ballant, a ballad.

Bane, a bone.

Bangster, a victor

Bawbee, a halfpenny.

Bee--"to hae a bee in one's bonnet," to be harebrained.

Beltane, a festival on the first of May, hence Whitsuntide.

"Bent, to take the," to provide for one's safety, to flee country.

Bide, to stay, to remain; to bear, to endure.

Bigg, to build.

Bind, one's ability or power.

Bink, a plate-rack.

Birl, to turn, to toss.

"Blaw in my lug," a flatterer.

Blude, bluid, blood.

Bodle, a small copper coin.

Bogle, a scarecrow.

Bombazine, the silk and worsted stuff of which a lawyer's gown was made.

Bonnet-laird, a small proprietor or freeholder who farms his own land.

"Bow Street runners," London detectives.

Braw, brave, fine.

Bruick, possessed.

"By ordinar," out of the common run.

Ca', to call. Ca'd, called.

Callant, a lad.

Caller, fresh.

Canna, cannot.

Cantle, the crown of the head.

Canty, lively, cheerful.

Capillaire, a syrup made from maidenhair fern.

Cappie, a kind of beer.

Carle, a fellow.

Carline, a witch.

Carvy, carraway.

Cauld, cold.

Cheek-haffit, side of the cheek.

Chucky, a pebble.

Claithes, clothes.

Claver, gossip.

Claw, to beat.

Cleck, clack or hatch.

Cleeket, cleiket, caught, ensnared, taken.

Clink, to chime, to rhyme.

Clouted, patched, and so strengthened.

Cock-a-leeky, cockie-leekie, soup made of a cock boiled with leeks.

Cock-bree, cock-broth.

Cockernonnie, a top-knot.

Cogue, a wooden measure.

Condiddling, appropriating.

Courie, cowry, a shell used as money in parts of Southern Asia and Africa.

Coventry. To send one to Coventry is to refuse to have anything to do with him socially, not
even to speak to him.

Cowt, a colt.

Craig, a rock.

Crap, a wig of rough short hair.

Craw, a crow.

Cuitle, to wheedle.

Cumbers, drawbacks, vexations.

Cutty, a jade.

Daffing, frolicking.

Daft, crazy.

Daur, to dare.

"Day, the," to-day.

Decerniture, a decree of the court.

Deil, the devil. "Deil's buckie," devil's imp.

Deleerit, distracted.

Diet-loaf, a kind of spongecake.

Dinna, don't.

Doited, dotard.

Donnart, stupid.

Dookit, ducked.

Douce, quiet, sensible.

Dought, was able.

Doun, down.

Dowcot, a dovecot.

Drap, a drop.

Drappie, a drop of spirits.

Dree'd, endured.

Drogs, drugs.

Dung, knocked, beaten.

Ee, the eye

Een, eyes.

Eneugh, enough.

Fa'an, fallen.

Fash, trouble.

Fashious, troublesome.

Faut, fault.

Feck, part, the greater part.

Feckless, spiritless.

Fend, defence.

Fern-seed. Certain kinds were supposed to render invisible those who carried it on their person.

Feuar, one who holds lands in feu--i.e., on lease.

File, foul.

Flee, a fly.

Fleeching, flattering.

Flesher, a butcher.

Flichtering, fluttering, fussing.

Flight--"hail flight," the whole lot.

Flyting, scolding.

Follies, ornaments, laces, &c.

Forbears, ancestors.

Forby, besides.

Fou, full.

Fouest, fullest.

Frae, from.

Fu', full.

Fule, a fool.

Gaed, went.

Gaen, gone.

Galliard, sprightly.

Gane, gone.

Gang, go.

Ganging, going.

Gar, to force, to make.

Gate, way, direction.

Gaun, going.

Geisen'd, leaking.

Gie, give.

Gill-flirt, a giddy flirt.

Girning, crabbed, ill-tempered.

Gled, a kite.

Gnostic, knowing, sharp.

Gomeril, an ass, a fool.

Goupin, a double handful.

Gowd, gold.

Gowk, a fool.

Gree, to agree.

Grosert, a gooseberry.

Gude, good.

Gudes, possessions, property.

Gully, a large knife.

Ha', a hall.

Hae, have.

Hail, haill, whole.

Harns, brains.

Haud, hold. "Neither to haud nor to bind," a proverbial phrase expressive of violent excitement.

Haugh, low-lying flat ground, properly on the border of a river, and such as is sometimes overflowed.

Haverils, foolish chatterers.

Heather-tap, a tuft or bunch of heather.

Hellicate, giddy, wild.

Hempie, roguish, romping.

Het, hot.

Holm, the level low ground on the banks of a river.

Hooly, softly, slowly.

Hotch, to jerk oneself along in a sitting posture.

Hottle, an hotel.

"Hout fie! hout awa!" expressions of dissatisfaction.

Howff, a favourite resort.

Howk, to dig.

Hurley-hacket, a badly hung carriage.

Huzzie, a jade.

Ilk, ilka, each, every.

I'se, I shall.

Jaugs, saddle bags.

Jer-falcon, a species of hawk.

Jirbling, emptying liquids from vessel to vessel.

Kale, broth.

Ken, to know.

Ken'd, knew.

Kitchen-fee, dripping.

Kittle, to tickle, to manage.

Kittled, were born.

Knap, to break in two; also, to speak after the manner of the English.

Kouscousou, a Moorish dish of various compounds.

Laird, a squire, lord of the manor.

Lamer, amber.

Landlouper, a charlatan, an adventurer.

Lang, long.

Lave, the remainder.

Lawing, a tavern reckoning.

Lea-rig, unploughed land or hill-side.

Lee, a lie.

Leeving, living.

"Let abee," let alone.

Lick, to beat, to overcome.

Linking, walking arm in arm.

Linkit, linked.

"Link out," to pay down smartly.

Lippen, to trust.

Loon, a fellow, a person.

Loot, allowed.

Loup, leap.

Lug, the ear.

Mailing, a farm.

Mair, more.

Maist, most.

Mansworn, perjured.

Mask, to brew.

Maun, must. Maunna, must not.

Mawkin, a hare.

Mazareen, mazarin, a deep blue colour.

Meith, a mark.

Mell, to maul, to meddle with.

"Minced collops," meat cut up very fine.

Mind, to remember.

Muckle, much.

Muir, a moor.

Multiplepoinding, a method of settling rival claims to the same fund.

Multure, the miller's fee for grinding grain.

Murgeons, mouths, distorted gestures.

Mutch, a woman's cap.

Mutchkin, a measure equal to an English pint.

Na, nae, no, not.

Naig, a nag.

Neist, next.

Odd-come-shortlies, chance times not far off.

Ony, any.

Or, before. "Or they wan hame," before they get home.

Ower, over.

Owerta'en, overtaken.

Palinode, in Scotch libel cases a formal recantation exacted in addition to damages.

Parritch, porridge.

Pat, put.

Pawky, shrewd.

Pice, an Indian coin.

Plack, a small copper coin = 1/3d.

Pock, a poke, a bag.

Poney, £25.

Pootry, poultry.

Pow, the head.

Pownie, a pony.

Prieve, proof, legal probation.

Puir, poor.

Pyot, a magpie.

Quaigh, a whisky measure.

Raff, a worthless fellow, a nobody.

Rattan, a cane or walking-stick.

Rax, to stretch.

Redd, to tidy. "An ill-red-up house," an untidy house.

Reekie, smoky.

Reise-sac, a travelling-bag.

Rin, run.

Rouleau, a roll of coined money.

Row, roll.

Sae, so.

Sair, sore.

"Salam alicum!" The usual Mohammedan greeting, meaning, Peace be with you!

Sall, shall.

Sasine, a mode of investiture in lands, according to ancient Scottish law.

Saumon, salmon.

Sax, six.

Scart, scratch.

Scate-rumple, skate-tail.

"Scauff and raff," tag-rag and bobtail.

Sclate, slate.

Scouthered, slightly toasted or singed.

Seeven, seven.

Shave, a slice.

Shool, a shovel.

Shouther, the shoulder.

Sib, related by blood.

Sic, such.

Siller, money.

Skeely, skilful.

Skylarked, tricked.

Slaister, a mess.

Sloan, a rebuff.

Smoor, to smother.

Snap, a small biscuit.

Sneck-drawing, crafty.

Snooded, bound up with a snood or fillet for the hair.

Sorn, to spunge, to live upon.

Sort, to arrange, to manage.

Sough, a sigh. "To keep a calm sough," to keep a quiet tongue.

Speer, to inquire.

Steer, stir.

Steered, disturbed.

Streekit, stretched (applied to a corpse).

Suld, should.

Syllabub, a curd made of wins or cider with milk or cream.

Synd, to rinse.

Syne, since, ago.

Tailzie, a bond of entail.

Tane, the one.

Tappet-hen, a large measure of claret holding three magnums or Scots pints.

Tauld, told.

Taupie, tawpie, an awkward girl, a tomboy.

Thae, these, those.

Thrawn, thwarted or twisted.

Threepit, averred, persisted.

Till't, to it.

Tither, the other.

Toom, empty.

Topping, excellent.

Trankums, flimsy ornaments, laces, &c.

Trewed, believed.

Twa, two.

Twal, twelve.

Unco, very, particular, uncommon.

Vilipend, to slight, to undervalue.

Wad, would.

Wadna, would not.

Wae, woful, sad.

Walth, wealth.

Wame-fou, bellyful.

"Wan to," reached.

Warld, world.

Waur, worse.

Weel, well.

Weird, destiny.

Wha, who.

"What for no?" why not?

Wheen, a few.

Whiles, sometimes.

Whilk, which.

Whully-whaing, flattery.

Wi', with.

Winna, will not.

Wud, mad. "Ance wud and aye waur," increasing in insanity--applied to one who, being in a passion,
still waxes more furious.

Wull, will.

Wuss, wish.

Yanking, smart, active.

Yont, beyond.

ST. RONAN'S WELL.

    A merry place, 'tis said, in days of yore;
    But something ails it now,--the place is cursed.

WORDSWORTH.

ST. RONAN'S WELL.

CHAPTER I.

THEATRICALS.

    ----The play's the thing.

Hamlet.

The important day had now arrived, the arrangement for which had for some time occupied all
the conversation and thoughts of the good company at the Well of St. Ronan's. To give it, at
the same time, a degree of novelty and consequence, Lady Penelope Penfeather had long since
suggested to Mr. Mowbray, that the more gifted and accomplished part of the guests might contribute
to furnish out entertainment for the rest, by acting a few scenes of some popular drama; an
accomplishment in which her self-conceit assured her that she was peculiarly qualified to excel.
Mr. Mowbray, who seemed on this occasion to have thrown the reins entirely into her ladyship's
hands, made no objection to the plan which she proposed, excepting that the old-fashioned hedges
and walks of the garden at Shaws-Castle must necessarily serve for stage and scenery, as there
was no time to fit up the old hall for the exhibition of the proposed theatricals.[II-1] But
upon enquiry among the company, this plan was wrecked upon the ordinary shelve, to wit, the
difficulty of finding performers who would consent to assume the lower characters of the drama.
For the first parts there were candidates more than enough; but most of these were greatly
too high-spirited to play the fool, except they were permitted to top the part. Then amongst
the few unambitious underlings, who could be coaxed or cajoled to undertake subordinate characters,
there were so many bad memories, and short memories, and treacherous memories, that at length
the plan was resigned in despair.

A substitute, proposed by Lady Penelope, was next considered. It was proposed to act what the
Italians call a Comedy of Character; that is, not an exact drama, in which the actors deliver
what is set down for them by the author; but one, in which the plot having been previously
fixed upon, and a few striking scenes adjusted, the actors are expected to supply the dialogue
extempore, or, as Petruchio says, from their mother wit. This is an amusement which affords
much entertainment in Italy, particularly in the state of Venice, where the characters of their
drama have been long since all previously fixed, and are handed down by tradition; and this
species of drama, though rather belonging to the mask than the theatre, is distinguished by
the name of Commedia dell' Arte.[II-2] But the shamefaced character of Britons is still more
alien from a species of display, where there is a constant and extemporaneous demand for wit,
or the sort of ready small-talk which supplies its place, than from the regular exhibitions
of the drama, where the author, standing responsible for language and sentiment, leaves to
the personators of the scenes only the trouble of finding enunciation and action.

But the ardent and active spirit of Lady Penelope, still athirst after novelty, though baffled
in her two first projects, brought forward a third, in which she was more successful. This
was the proposal to combine a certain number, at least, of the guests, properly dressed for
the occasion, as representing some well-known historical or dramatic characters, in a group,
having reference to history, or to a scene of the drama. In this representation, which may
be called playing a picture, action, even pantomimical action, was not expected; and all that
was required of the performers, was to throw themselves into such a group as might express
a marked and striking point of an easily remembered scene, but where the actors are at a pause,
and without either speech or motion. In this species of representation there was no tax, either
on the invention or memory of those who might undertake parts; and, what recommended it still
farther to the good company, there was no marked difference betwixt the hero and heroine of
the group, and the less distinguished characters by whom they were attended on the stage; and
every one who had confidence in a handsome shape and a becoming dress, might hope, though standing
in not quite so broad and favourable a light as the principal personages, to draw, nevertheless,
a considerable portion of attention and applause. This motion, therefore, that the company,
or such of them as might choose to appear properly dressed for the occasion, should form themselves
into one or more groups, which might be renewed and varied as often as they pleased, was hailed
and accepted as a bright idea, which assigned to every one a share of the importance attached
to its probable success.

Mowbray, on his side, promised to contrive some arrangement which should separate the actors
in this mute drama from the spectators, and enable the former to vary the amusement, by withdrawing
themselves from the scene, and again appearing upon it under a different and new combination.
This plan of exhibition, where fine clothes and affected attitudes supplied all draughts upon
fancy or talent, was highly agreeable to most of the ladies present; and even Lady Binks, whose
discontent seemed proof against every effort that could be proposed to soothe it, acquiesced
in the project, with perfect indifference indeed, but with something less of sullenness than usual.

It now only remained to rummage the circulating library, for some piece of sufficient celebrity
to command attention, and which should be at the same time suited to the execution of their
project. Bell's British Theatre, Miller's Modern and Ancient Drama, and about twenty odd volumes,
in which stray tragedies and comedies were associated, like the passengers in a mail-coach,
without the least attempt at selection or arrangement, were all examined in the course of their
researches. But Lady Penelope declared loftily and decidedly for Shakspeare, as the author
whose immortal works were fresh in every one's recollection. Shakspeare was therefore chosen,
and from his works the Midsummer Night's Dream was selected, as the play which afforded the
greatest variety of characters, and most scope of course for the intended representation. An
active competition presently occurred among the greater part of the company, for such copies
of the Midsummer Night's Dream, or the volume of Shakspeare containing it, as could be got
in the neighbourhood; for, notwithstanding Lady Penelope's declaration, that every one who
could read had Shakspeare's plays by heart, it appeared that such of his dramas as have not
kept possession of the stage, were very little known at St. Ronan's, save among those people
who are emphatically called readers.

The adjustment of the parts was the first subject of consideration, so soon as those who intended
to assume characters had refreshed their recollection on the subject of the piece. Theseus
was unanimously assigned to Mowbray, the giver of the entertainment, and therefore justly entitled
to represent the Duke of Athens. The costume of an Amazonian crest and plume, a tucked-up vest,
and a tight buskin of sky-blue silk, buckled with diamonds, reconciled Lady Binks to the part
of Hippolyta. The superior stature of Miss Mowbray to Lady Penelope, made it necessary that
the former should perform the part of Helena, and her ladyship rest contented with the shrewish
character of Hermia. It was resolved to compliment the young Earl of Etherington with the part
of Lysander, which, however, his lordship declined, and, preferring comedy to tragedy, refused
to appear in any other character than that of the magnanimous Bottom; and he gave them such
a humorous specimen of his quality in that part, that all were delighted at once with his condescension
in assuming, and his skill in performing, the presenter of Pyramus.

The part of Egeus was voted to Captain MacTurk, whose obstinacy in refusing to appear in any
other than the full Highland garb, had nearly disconcerted the whole affair. At length this
obstacle was got over, on the authority of Childe Harold, who remarks the similarity betwixt
the Highland and Grecian costume,[II-3] and the company, dispensing with the difference of
colour, voted the Captain's variegated kilt, of the MacTurk tartan, to be the kirtle of a Grecian
mountaineer,--Egeus to be an Arnout, and the Captain to be Egeus. Chatterly and the painter,
walking gentlemen by profession, agreed to walk through the parts of Demetrius and Lysander,
the two Athenian lovers; and Mr. Winterblossom, loath and lazy, after many excuses, was bribed
by Lady Penelope with an antique, or supposed antique cameo, to play the part of Philostratus,
master of the revels, provided his gout would permit him to remain so long upon the turf, which
was to be their stage.

Muslin trowsers, adorned with spangles, a voluminous turban of silver gauze, and wings of the
same, together with an embroidered slipper, converted at once Miss Digges into Oberon, the
King of Shadows, whose sovereign gravity, however, was somewhat indifferently represented by
the silly gaiety of Miss in her Teens, and the uncontrolled delight which she felt in her fine
clothes. A younger sister represented Titania; and two or three subordinate elves were selected,
among families attending the salutiferous fountain, who were easily persuaded to let their
children figure in fine clothes at so juvenile an age, though they shook their head at Miss
Digges and her pantaloons, and no less at the liberal display of Lady Binks's right leg, with
which the Amazonian garb gratified the public of St. Ronan's.

Dr. Quackleben was applied to to play Wall, by the assistance of such a wooden horse, or screen,
as clothes are usually dried upon; the old Attorney stood for Lion; and the other characters
of Bottom's drama were easily found among the unnamed frequenters of the Spring. Dressed rehearsals,
and so forth, went merrily on--all voted there was a play fitted.

But even the Doctor's eloquence could not press Mrs. Blower into the scheme, although she was
particularly wanted to represent Thisbe.

"Truth is," she replied, "I dinna greatly like stage-plays. John Blower, honest man, as sailors
are aye for some spree or another, wad take me ance to see ane Mrs. Siddons--I thought we should
hae been crushed to death before we gat in--a' my things riven aff my back, forby the four
lily-white shillings that it cost us--and then in came three frightsome carlines wi' besoms,
and they wad bewitch a sailor's wife--I was lang eneugh there--and out I wad be, and out John
Blower gat me, but wi' nae sma' fight and fend.--My Lady Penelope Penfitter, and the great
folk, may just take it as they like; but in my mind, Dr. Cacklehen, it's a mere blasphemy for
folk to gar themselves look otherwise than their Maker made them; and then the changing the
name which was given them at baptism, is, I think, an awful falling away from our vows; and
though Thisby, which I take to be Greek for Tibbie, may be a very good name, yet Margaret was
I christened, and Margaret will I die."

"You mistake the matter entirely, my dear Mrs. Blower," said the Doctor; "there is nothing
serious intended--a mere placebo--just a divertisement to cheer the spirits, and assist the
effect of the waters--cheerfulness is a great promoter of health."

"Dinna tell me o' health, Dr. Kittlepin!--Can it be for the puir body M'Durk's health to major
about in the tartans like a tobacconist's sign in a frosty morning, wi' his poor wizzened houghs
as blue as a blawort?--weel I wot he is a humbling spectacle. Or can it gie ony body health
or pleasure either to see your ainsell, Doctor, ganging about wi' a claise screen tied to your
back, covered wi' paper, and painted like a stane and lime wa'?--I'll gang to see nane o' their
vanities, Dr. Kittlehen; and if there is nae other decent body to take care o' me, as I dinna
like to sit a haill afternoon by mysell, I'll e'en gae doun to Mr. Sowerbrowst the maltster's--he
is a pleasant, sensible man, and a sponsible man in the world, and his sister's a very decent
woman."

"Confound Sowerbrowst," thought the Doctor; "if I had guessed he was to come across me thus,
he should not have got the better of his dyspepsy so early.--My dear Mrs. Blower," he continued,
but aloud, "it is a foolish affair enough, I must confess; but every person of style and fashion
at the Well has settled to attend this exhibition; there has been nothing else talked of for
this month through the whole country, and it will be a year before it is forgotten. And I would
have you consider how ill it will look, my dear Mrs. Blower, to stay away--nobody will believe
you had a card--no, not though you were to hang it round your neck like a label round a vial
of tincture, Mrs. Blower."

"If ye thought that, Doctor Kickherben," said the widow, alarmed at the idea of losing caste,
"I wad e'en gang to the show, like other folk; sinful and shameful if it be, let them that
make the sin bear the shame. But then I will put on nane of their Popish disguises--me that
has lived in North Leith, baith wife and lass, for I shanna say how mony years, and has a character
to keep up baith with saint and sinner.--And then, wha's to take care of me, since you are
gaun to make a lime-and-stane wa' of yoursell, Dr. Kickinben?"

"My dear Mrs. Blower, if such is your determination, I will not make a wall of myself. Her
ladyship must consider my profession--she must understand it is my function to look after my
patients, in preference to all the stage-plays in this world--and to attend on a case like
yours, Mrs. Blower, it is my duty to sacrifice, were it called for, the whole drama from Shakspeare
to O'Keefe."

On hearing this magnanimous resolution, the widow's heart was greatly cheered; for, in fact,
she might probably have considered the Doctor's perseverance in the plan, of which she had
expressed such high disapprobation, as little less than a symptom of absolute defection from
his allegiance. By an accommodation, therefore, which suited both parties, it was settled that
the Doctor should attend his loving widow to Shaws-Castle, without mask or mantle; and that
the painted screen should be transferred from Quackleben's back to the broad shoulders of a
briefless barrister, well qualified for the part of Wall, since the composition of his skull
might have rivalled in solidity the mortar and stone of the most approved builder.

We must not pause to dilate upon the various labours of body and spirit which preceded the
intervening space, betwixt the settlement of this gay scheme, and the time appointed to carry
it into execution. We will not attempt to describe how the wealthy, by letter and by commissioners,
urged their researches through the stores of the Gallery of Fashion for specimens of Oriental
finery--how they that were scant of diamonds supplied their place with paste and Bristol stones--how
the country dealers were driven out of patience by the demand for goods of which they had never
before heard the name--and, lastly, how the busy fingers of the more economical damsels twisted
handkerchiefs into turbans, and converted petticoats into pantaloons, shaped and sewed, cut
and clipped, and spoiled many a decent gown and petticoat, to produce something like a Grecian
habit. Who can describe the wonders wrought by active needles and scissors, aided by thimbles
and thread, upon silver gauze, and sprigged muslin? or who can show how, if the fair nymphs
of the Spring did not entirely succeed in attaining the desired resemblance to heathen Greeks,
they at least contrived to get rid of all similitude to sober Christians?

Neither is it necessary to dwell upon the various schemes of conveyance which were resorted
to, in order to transfer the beau monde of the Spa to the scene of revelry at Shaws-Castle.
These were as various as the fortunes and pretensions of the owners; from the lordly curricle,
with its outriders, to the humble taxed cart, nay, untaxed cart, which conveyed the personages
of lesser rank. For the latter, indeed, the two post-chaises at the Inn seemed converted into
hourly stages, so often did they come and go between the Hotel and the Castle--a glad day for
the postilions, and a day of martyrdom for the poor post-horses; so seldom is it that every
department of any society, however constituted, can be injured or benefited by the same occurrence.

Such, indeed, was the penury of vehicular conveyance, that applications were made in manner
most humble, even to Meg Dods herself, entreating she would permit her old whiskey to ply (for
such might have been the phrase) at St. Ronan's Well, for that day only, and that upon good
cause shown. But not for sordid lucre would the undaunted spirit of Meg compound her feud with
her neighbours of the detested Well. "Her carriage," she briefly replied, "was engaged for
her ain guest and the minister, and deil anither body's fit should gang intill't. Let every
herring hing by its ain head." And, accordingly, at the duly appointed hour, creaked forth,
the leathern convenience, in which, carefully screened by the curtain from the gaze of the
fry of the village, sat Nabob Touchwood, in the costume of an Indian merchant, or Shroff, as
they are termed. The clergyman would not, perhaps, have been so punctual, had not a set of
notes and messages from his friend at the Cleikum, ever following each other as thick as the
papers which decorate the tail of a schoolboy's kite, kept him so continually on the alert
from daybreak till noon, that Mr. Touchwood found him completely dressed; and the whiskey was
only delayed for about ten minutes before the door of the manse, a space employed by Mr. Cargill
in searching for the spectacles, which at last were happily discovered upon his own nose.

At length, seated by the side of his new friend, Mr. Cargill arrived safe at Shaws-Castle,
the gate of which mansion was surrounded by a screaming group of children, so extravagantly
delighted at seeing the strange figures to whom each successive carriage gave birth, that even
the stern brow and well-known voice of Johnie Tirlsneck, the beadle, though stationed in the
court on express purpose, was not equal to the task of controlling them. These noisy intruders,
however, who, it was believed, were somewhat favoured by Clara Mowbray, were excluded from
the court which opened before the house, by a couple of grooms or helpers armed with their
whips, and could only salute, with their shrill and wondering hailing, the various personages,
as they passed down a short avenue leading from the exterior gate.

The Cleikum nabob and the minister were greeted with shouts not the least clamorous; which
the former merited by the ease with which he wore the white turban, and the latter, by the
infrequency of his appearance in public, and both, by the singular association of a decent
clergyman of the church of Scotland, in a dress more old-fashioned than could now be produced
in the General Assembly, walking arm in arm, and seemingly in the most familiar terms, with
a Parsee merchant. They stopped a moment at the gate of the court-yard to admire the front
of the old mansion, which had been disturbed with so unusual a scene of gaiety.

Shaws-Castle, though so named, presented no appearance of defence; and the present edifice
had never been designed for more than the accommodation of a peaceful family, having a low,
heavy front, loaded with some of that meretricious ornament, which, uniting, or rather confounding,
the Gothic and Grecian architecture, was much used during the reigns of James VI. of Scotland,
and his unfortunate son. The court formed a small square, two sides of which were occupied
by such buildings as were required for the family, and the third by the stables, the only part
to which much attention had been paid, the present Mr. Mowbray having put them into excellent
order. The fourth side of the square was shut up by a screen wall, through which a door opened
to the avenue; the whole being a kind of structure, which may be still found on those old Scottish
properties, where a rage to render their place Parkish, as was at one time the prevailing phrase,
has not induced the owners to pull down the venerable and sheltering appendages with which
their wiser fathers had screened their mansion, and to lay the whole open to the keen north-east;
much after the fashion of a spinster of fifty, who chills herself to gratify the public by
an exposure of her thin red elbows, and shrivelled neck and bosom.

A double door, thrown hospitably open on the present occasion, admitted the company into a
dark and low hall, where Mowbray himself, wearing the under dress of Theseus, but not having
yet assumed his ducal cap and robes, stood to receive his guests with due courtesy, and to
indicate to each the road allotted to him. Those who were to take a share in the representation
of the morning, were conducted to an old saloon, destined for a green-room, and which communicated
with a series of apartments on the right, hastily fitted with accommodations for arranging
and completing their toilet; while others, who took no part in the intended drama, were ushered
to the left, into a large, unfurnished, and long disused dining parlour, where a sashed door
opened into the gardens, crossed with yew and holly hedges, still trimmed and clipped by the
old grey-headed gardener, upon those principles which a Dutchman thought worthy of commemorating
in a didactic poem upon the Ars Topiaria.

A little wilderness, surrounding a beautiful piece of the smoothest turf, and itself bounded
by such high hedges as we have described, had been selected as the stage most proper for the
exhibition of the intended dramatic picture. It afforded many facilities; for a rising bank
exactly in front was accommodated with seats for the spectators, who had a complete view of
the silvan theatre, the bushes and shrubs having been cleared away, and the place supplied
with a temporary screen, which, being withdrawn by the domestics appointed for that purpose,
was to serve for the rising of the curtain. A covered trellis, which passed through another
part of the garden, and terminated with a private door opening from the right wing of the building,
seemed as if it had been planted on purpose for the proposed exhibition, as it served to give
the personages of the drama a convenient and secret access from the green-room to the place
of representation. Indeed, the dramatis personæ, at least those who adopted the management
of the matter, were induced, by so much convenience, to extend, in some measure, their original
plan; and, instead of one group, as had been at first proposed, they now found themselves able
to exhibit to the good company a succession of three or four, selected and arranged from different
parts of the drama; thus giving some duration, as well as some variety, to the entertainment,
besides the advantage of separating and contrasting the tragic and the comic scenes. A delay
of about ten minutes began to excite some suppressed murmurs of impatience among the audience,
when the touch of Gow's fiddle suddenly burst from a neighbouring hedge, behind which he had
established his little orchestra. All were of course silent,

    "As through his dear strathspeys he bore with Highland rage."

And when he changed his strain to an adagio, and suffered his music to die away in the plaintive
notes of Roslin Castle, the echoes of the old walls were, after a long slumber, awakened by
that enthusiastic burst of applause, with which the Scots usually received and rewarded their
country's gifted minstrel.

"He is his father's own son," said Touchwood to the clergyman, for both had gotten seats near
about the centre of the place of audience. "It is many a long year since I listened to old
Neil at Inver, and, to say truth, spent a night with him over pancakes and Athole brose; and
I never expected to hear his match again in my lifetime. But stop--the curtain rises."

The screen was indeed withdrawn, and displayed Hermia, Helena, and their lovers, in attitudes
corresponding to the scene of confusion occasioned by the error of Puck.

Messrs. Chatterly and the Painter played their parts neither better nor worse than amateur
actors in general; and the best that could be said of them was, that they seemed more than
half ashamed of their exotic dresses, and of the public gaze.

But against this untimely weakness Lady Penelope was guarded, by the strong shield of self-conceit.
She minced, ambled, and, notwithstanding the slight appearance of her person, and the depredations
which time had made on a countenance that had never been very much distinguished for beauty,
seemed desirous to top the part of the beautiful daughter of Egeus. The sullenness which was
proper to the character of Hermia, was much augmented by the discovery that Miss Mowbray was
so much better dressed than herself,--a discovery which she had but recently made, as that
young lady had not attended on the regular rehearsals at the Well, but once, and then without
her stage habit. Her ladyship, however, did not permit this painful sense of inferiority, where
she had expected triumph, so far to prevail over her desire of shining, as to interrupt materially
the manner in which she had settled to represent her portion of the scene. The nature of the
exhibition precluded much action, but Lady Penelope made amends by such a succession of grimaces,
as might rival, in variety at least, the singular display which Garrick used to call "going
his rounds." She twisted her poor features into looks of most desperate love towards Lysander;
into those of wonder and offended pride, when she turned them upon Demetrius; and finally settled
them on Helena, with the happiest possible imitation of an incensed rival, who feels the impossibility
of relieving her swollen heart by tears alone, and is just about to have recourse to her nails.

No contrast could be stronger in looks, demeanour, and figure, than that between Hermia and
Helena. In the latter character, the beautiful form and foreign dress of Miss Mowbray attracted
all eyes. She kept her place on the stage, as a sentinel does that which his charge assigns
him; for she had previously told her brother, that though she consented, at his importunity,
to make part of the exhibition, it was as a piece of the scene, not as an actor, and accordingly
a painted figure could scarce be more immovable. The expression of her countenance seemed to
be that of deep sorrow and perplexity, belonging to her part, over which wandered at times
an air of irony or ridicule, as if she were secretly scorning the whole exhibition, and even
herself for condescending to become part of it. Above all, a sense of bashfulness had cast
upon her cheek a colour, which, though sufficiently slight, was more than her countenance was
used to display; and when the spectators beheld, in the splendour and grace of a rich Oriental
dress, her whom they had hitherto been accustomed to see attired only in the most careless
manner, they felt the additional charms of surprise and contrast; so that the bursts of applause
which were vollied towards the stage, might be said to be addressed to her alone, and to vie
in sincerity with those which have been forced from an audience by the most accomplished performer.

"Oh, that puir Lady Penelope!" said honest Mrs. Blower, who, when her scruples against the
exhibition were once got over, began to look upon it with particular interest,--"I am really
sorry for her puir face, for she gars it work like the sails of John Blower's vesshel in a
stiff breeze.--Oh, Doctor Cacklehen, dinna ye think she wad need, if it were possible, to rin
ower her face wi' a gusing iron, just to take the wrunkles out o't?"

"Hush, hush! my good dear Mrs. Blower," said the Doctor; "Lady Penelope is a woman of quality,
and my patient, and such people always act charmingly--you must understand there is no hissing
at a private theatre--Hem!"

"Ye may say what ye like, Doctor, but there is nae fule like an auld fule--To be sure, if she
was as young and beautiful as Miss Mowbray--hegh me, and I didna use to think her sae bonny
neither--but dress--dress makes an unco difference--That shawl o' hers--I daur say the like
o't was ne'er seen in braid Scotland--It will be real Indian, I'se warrant."

"Real Indian!" said Mr. Touchwood, in an accent of disdain, which rather disturbed Mrs. Blower's
equanimity,--"why, what do you suppose it should be, madam?"

"I dinna ken, sir," said she, edging somewhat nearer the Doctor, not being altogether pleased,
as she afterwards allowed, with the outlandish appearance and sharp tone of the traveller;
then pulling her own drapery round her shoulders, she added, courageously, "There are braw
shawls made at Paisley, that ye will scarce ken frae foreign."

"Not know Paisley shawls from Indian, madam?" said Touchwood; "why, a blind man could tell
by the slightest touch of his little finger. Yon shawl, now, is the handsomest I have seen
in Britain--and at this distance I can tell it to be a real Tozie."

"Cozie may she weel be that wears it," said Mrs. Blower. "I declare, now I look on't again,
it's a perfect beauty."

"It is called Tozie, ma'am, not cozie," continued the traveller; "the Shroffs at Surat told
me in 1801, that it is made out of the inner coat of a goat."

"Of a sheep, sir, I am thinking ye mean, for goats has nae woo'."

"Not much of it, indeed, madam, but you are to understand they use only the inmost coat; and
then their dyes--that Tozie now will keep its colour while there is a rag of it left--men bequeath
them in legacies to their grandchildren."

"And a very bonny colour it is," said the dame; "something like a mouse's back, only a thought
redder--I wonder what they ca' that colour."

"The colour is much admired, madam," said Touchwood, who was now on a favourite topic; "the
Mussulmans say the colour is betwixt that of an elephant and the breast of the faughta."

"In troth, I am as wise as I was," said Mrs. Blower.

"The faughta, madam, so called by the Moors, (for the Hindhus call it hollah,) is a sort of
pigeon, held sacred among the Moslem of India, because they think it dyed its breast in the
blood of Ali.--But I see they are closing the scene.--Mr. Cargill, are you composing your sermon,
my good friend, or what can you be thinking of?"

Mr. Cargill had, during the whole scene, remained with his eyes fixed, in intent and anxious,
although almost unconscious gaze, upon Clara Mowbray; and when the voice of his companion startled
him out of his reverie, he exclaimed, "Most lovely--most unhappy--yes--I must and will see her!"

"See her?" replied Touchwood, too much accustomed to his friend's singularities to look for
much reason or connexion in any thing he said or did; "Why, you shall see her and talk to her
too, if that will give you pleasure.--They say now," he continued, lowering his voice to a
whisper, "that this Mowbray is ruined. I see nothing like it, since he can dress out his sister
like a Begum. Did you ever see such a splendid shawl?"

"Dearly purchased splendour," said Mr. Cargill, with a deep sigh; "I wish that the price be
yet fully paid!"

"Very likely not," said the traveller; "very likely it's gone to the book; and for the price,
I have known a thousand rupees given for such a shawl in the country.--But hush, hush, we are
to have another tune from Nathaniel--faith, and they are withdrawing the screen--Well, they
have some mercy--they do not let us wait long between the acts of their follies at least--I
love a quick and rattling fire in these vanities--Folly walking a funeral pace, and clinking
her bells to the time of a passing knell, makes sad work indeed."

A strain of music, beginning slowly, and terminating in a light and wild allegro, introduced
on the stage those delightful creatures of the richest imagination that ever teemed with wonders,
the Oberon and Titania of Shakspeare. The pigmy majesty of the captain of the fairy band had
no unapt representative in Miss Digges, whose modesty was not so great an intruder as to prevent
her desire to present him in all his dignity, and she moved, conscious of the graceful turn
of a pretty ankle, which, encircled with a string of pearls, and clothed in flesh-coloured
silk, of the most cobweb texture, rose above the crimson sandal. Her jewelled tiara, too, gave
dignity to the frown with which the offended King of Shadows greeted his consort, as each entered
upon the scene at the head of their several attendants.

The restlessness of the children had been duly considered; and, therefore, their part of the
exhibition had been contrived to represent dumb show, rather than a stationary picture. The
little Queen of Elves was not inferior in action to her moody lord, and repaid, with a look
of female impatience and scorn, the haughty air which seemed to express his sullen greeting,

    "Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania."

The other children were, as usual, some clever and forward, some loutish and awkward enough;
but the gambols of childhood are sure to receive applause, paid, perhaps, with a mixture of
pity and envy, by those in advanced life; and besides, there were in the company several fond
papas and mammas, whose clamorous approbation, though given apparently to the whole performers,
was especially dedicated in their hearts to their own little Jackies and Marias,--for Mary,
though the prettiest and most classical of Scottish names, is now unknown in the land. The
elves, therefore, played their frolics, danced a measure, and vanished with good approbation.

The anti-mask, as it may be called, of Bottom, and his company of actors, next appeared on
the stage, and a thunder of applause received the young Earl, who had, with infinite taste
and dexterity, transformed himself into the similitude of an Athenian clown; observing the
Grecian costume, yet so judiciously discriminated from the dress of the higher characters,
as at once to fix the character of a thick-skinned mechanic on the wearer. Touchwood, in particular,
was loud in his approbation, from which the correctness of the costume must be inferred; for
that honest gentleman, like many other critics, was indeed not very much distinguished for
good taste, but had a capital memory for petty matters of fact; and, while the most impressive
look or gesture of an actor might have failed to interest him, would have censured most severely
the fashion of a sleeve, or the colour of a shoe-tie.

But the Earl of Etherington's merits were not confined to his external appearance; for, had
his better fortunes failed him, his deserts, like those of Hamlet, might have got him a fellowship
in a cry of players. He presented, though in dumb show, the pragmatic conceit of Bottom, to
the infinite amusement of all present, especially of those who were well acquainted with the
original; and when he was "translated" by Puck, he bore the ass's head, his newly-acquired
dignity, with an appearance of conscious greatness, which made the metamorphosis, though in
itself sufficiently farcical, irresistibly comic. He afterwards displayed the same humour in
his frolics with the fairies, and the intercourse which he held with Messrs. Cobweb, Mustard-seed,
Pease-blossom, and the rest of Titania's cavaliers, who lost all command of their countenances
at the gravity with which he invited them to afford him the luxury of scratching his hairy
snout. Mowbray had also found a fitting representative for Puck in a queer-looking, small-eyed
boy of the Aultoun of St. Ronan's, with large ears projecting from his head like turrets from
a Gothic building. This exotic animal personified the merry and mocking spirit of Hobgoblin
with considerable power, so that the group bore some resemblance to the well-known and exquisite
delineation of Puck by Sir Joshua, in the select collection of the Bard of Memory. It was,
however, the ruin of the St. Ronan's Robin Goodfellow, who did no good afterwards,--"gaed an
ill gate," as Meg Dods said, and "took on" with a party of strolling players.

The entertainment closed with a grand parade of all the characters that had appeared, during
which Mowbray concluded that the young lord himself, unremarked, might have time enough to
examine the outward form, at least, of his sister Clara, whom, in the pride of his heart, he
could not help considering superior in beauty, dressed as she now was, with every advantage
of art, even to the brilliant Amazon, Lady Binks. It is true, Mowbray was not a man to give
preference to the intellectual expression of poor Clara's features over the sultana-like beauty
of the haughty dame, which promised to an admirer all the vicissitudes that can be expressed
by a countenance lovely in every change, and changing as often as an ardent and impetuous disposition,
unused to constraint, and despising admonition, should please to dictate. Yet, to do him justice,
though his preference was perhaps dictated more by fraternal partiality than by purity of taste,
he certainly, on the present occasion, felt the full extent of Clara's superiority; and there
was a proud smile on his lip, as, at the conclusion of the divertisement, he asked the Earl
how he had been pleased. The rest of the performers had separated, and the young lord remained
on the stage, employed in disembarrassing himself of his awkward visor, when Mowbray put this
question, to which, though general in terms, he naturally gave a particular meaning.

"I could wear my ass's head for ever," he said, "on condition my eyes were to be so delightfully
employed as they have been during the last scene.--Mowbray, your sister is an angel!"

"Have a care that that headpiece of yours has not perverted your taste, my lord," said Mowbray.
"But why did you wear that disguise on your last appearance? You should, I think, have been
uncovered."

"I am ashamed to answer you," said the Earl; "but truth is, first impressions are of consequence,
and I thought I might do as wisely not to appear before your sister, for the first time, in
the character of Bully Bottom."

"Then you change your dress, my lord, for dinner, if we call our luncheon by that name?" said
Mowbray.

"I am going to my room this instant for that very purpose," replied the Earl.

"And I," said Mowbray, "must step in front, and dismiss the audience; for I see they are sitting
gaping there, waiting for another scene."

They parted upon this; and Mowbray, as Duke Theseus, stepped before the screen, and announcing
the conclusion of the dramatic pictures which they had had the honour to present before the
worshipful company, thanked the spectators for the very favourable reception which they had
afforded; and intimated to them, that if they could amuse themselves by strolling for an hour
among the gardens, a bell would summon to the house at the expiry of that time, when some refreshments
would wait their acceptance. This annunciation was received with the applause due to the Amphitryon
ou l'on dine; and the guests, arising from before the temporary theatre, dispersed through
the gardens, which were of some extent, to seek for or create amusement to themselves. The
music greatly aided them in this last purpose, and it was not long ere a dozen of couples and
upwards, were "tripping it on the light fantastic toe," (I love a phrase that is not hackneyed,)
to the tune of Monymusk.

Others strolled through the grounds, meeting some quaint disguise at the end of every verdant
alley, and communicating to others the surprise and amusement which they themselves were receiving.
The scene, from the variety of dresses, the freedom which it gave to the display of humour
amongst such as possessed any, and the general disposition to give and receive pleasure, rendered
the little masquerade more entertaining than others of the kind for which more ample and magnificent
preparations have been made. There was also a singular and pleasing contrast between the fantastic
figures who wandered through the gardens, and the quiet scene itself, to which the old clipt
hedges, the formal distribution of the ground, and the antiquated appearance of one or two
fountains and artificial cascades, in which the naiads had been for the nonce compelled to
resume their ancient frolics, gave an appearance of unusual simplicity and seclusion, and which
seemed rather to belong to the last than to the present generation.

FOOTNOTES:

[II-1] At Kilruddery, the noble seat of Lord Meath, in the county of Wicklow, there is a situation
for private theatrical exhibitions in the open air, planted out with the evergreens which arise
there in the most luxuriant magnificence. It has a wild and romantic effect, reminding one
of the scene in which Bottom rehearsed his pageant, with a green plot for a stage, and a hawthorn
brake for a tiringroom.

[II-2] See Mr. William Stewart Rose's very interesting Letters from the North of Italy, Vol.
I. Letter XXX., where this curious subject is treated with the information and precision which
distinguish that accomplished author.

CHAPTER II.

PERPLEXITIES.

    For revels, dances, masks, and merry hours,
    Fore-run fair Love, strewing his way with flowers.

Love's Labour's Lost.

    Worthies, away--the scene begins to cloud.

Ibidem.

Mr. Touchwood, and his inseparable friend, Mr. Cargill, wandered on amidst the gay groups we
have described, the former censuring with great scorn the frequent attempts which he observed
towards an imitation of the costume of the East, and appealing with self-complacence to his
own superior representation, as he greeted, in Moorish and in Persic, the several turban'd
figures who passed his way; while the clergyman, whose mind seemed to labour with some weighty
and important project, looked in every direction for the fair representative of Helena, but
in vain. At length he caught a glimpse of the memorable shawl, which had drawn forth so learned
a discussion from his companion; and, starting from Touchwood's side with a degree of anxious
alertness totally foreign to his usual habits, he endeavoured to join the person by whom it
was worn.

"By the Lord," said his companion, "the Doctor is beside himself!--the parson is mad!--the
divine is out of his senses, that is clear; and how the devil can he, who scarce can find his
road from the Cleikum to his own manse, venture himself unprotected into such a scene of confusion?--he
might as well pretend to cross the Atlantic without a pilot--I must push off in chase of him,
lest worse come of it."

But the traveller was prevented from executing his friendly purpose by a sort of crowd which
came rushing down the alley, the centre of which was occupied by Captain MacTurk, in the very
act of bullying two pseudo Highlanders, for having presumed to lay aside their breeches before
they had acquired the Gaelic language. The sounds of contempt and insult with which the genuine
Celt was overwhelming the unfortunate impostors, were not, indeed, intelligible otherwise than
from the tone and manner of the speaker; but these intimated so much displeasure, that the
plaided forms whose unadvised choice of a disguise had provoked it--two raw lads from a certain
great manufacturing town--heartily repented their temerity, and were in the act of seeking
for the speediest exit from the gardens; rather choosing to resign their share of the dinner,
than to abide the farther consequences that might follow from the displeasure of this highland
Termagant.

Touchwood had scarcely extricated himself from this impediment, and again commenced his researches
after the clergyman, when his course was once more interrupted by a sort of pressgang, headed
by Sir Bingo Binks, who, in order to play his character of a drunken boatswain to the life,
seemed certainly drunk enough, however little of a seaman. His cheer sounded more like a view-hollo
than a hail, when, with a volley of such oaths as would have blown a whole fleet of the Bethel
Union out of the water, he ordered Touchwood "to come under his lee, and be d----d; for, smash
his old timbers, he must go to sea again, for as weather-beaten a hulk as he was."

Touchwood answered instantly, "To sea with all my heart, but not with a land-lubber for commander.--Harkye,
brother, do you know how much of a horse's furniture belongs to a ship?"

"Come, none of your quizzing, my old buck," said Sir Bingo--"What the devil has a ship to do
with horse's furniture?--Do you think we belong to the horse-marines?--ha! ha! I think you're
matched, brother."

"Why, you son of a fresh-water gudgeon," replied the traveller, "that never in your life sailed
farther than the Isle of Dogs, do you pretend to play a sailor, and not know the bridle of
the bow-line, and the saddle of the boltsprit, and the bit for the cable, and the girth to
hoist the rigging, and the whip to serve for small tackle?--There is a trick for you to find
out an Abram-man, and save sixpence when he begs of you as a disbanded seaman.--Get along with
you! or the constable shall be charged with the whole pressgang to man the workhouse."

A general laugh arose at the detection of the swaggering boatswain; and all that the Baronet
had for it was to sneak off, saying, "D--n the old quiz, who the devil thought to have heard
so much slang from an old muslin nightcap!"

Touchwood being now an object of some attention, was followed by two or three stragglers, whom
he endeavoured to rid himself of the best way he could, testifying an impatience a little inconsistent
with the decorum of his Oriental demeanour, but which arose from his desire to rejoin his companion,
and some apprehension of inconvenience which he feared Cargill might sustain during his absence.
For, being in fact as good-natured a man as any in the world, Mr. Touchwood was at the same
time one of the most conceited, and was very apt to suppose, that his presence, advice, and
assistance, were of the most indispensable consequence to those with whom he lived; and that
not only on great emergencies, but even in the most ordinary occurrences of life.

Meantime, Mr. Cargill, whom he sought in vain, was, on his part, anxiously keeping in sight
of the beautiful Indian shawl, which served as a flag to announce to him the vessel which he
held in chase. At length he approached so close as to say, in an anxious whisper, "Miss Mowbray--Miss
Mowbray--I must speak with you."

"And what would you have with Miss Mowbray?" said the fair wearer of the beautiful shawl, but
without turning round her head.

"I have a secret--an important secret, of which to make you aware; but it is not for this place.--Do
not turn from me!--Your happiness in this, and perhaps in the next life, depends on your listening
to me."

The lady led the way, as if to give him an opportunity of speaking with her more privately,
to one of those old-fashioned and deeply-embowered recesses, which are commonly found in such
gardens as that of Shaws-Castle; and, with her shawl wrapped around her head, so as in some
degree to conceal her features, she stood before Mr. Cargill in the doubtful light and shadow
of a huge platanus tree, which formed the canopy of the arbour, and seemed to await the communication
he had promised.

"Report says," said the clergyman, speaking in an eager and hurried manner, yet with a low
voice, and like one desirous of being heard by her whom he addressed, and by no one else,--"Report
says that you are about to be married."

"And is report kind enough to say to whom?" answered the lady, with a tone of indifference
which seemed to astound her interrogator.

"Young lady," he answered, with a solemn voice, "had this levity been sworn to me, I could
never have believed it! Have you forgot the circumstances in which you stand?--Have you forgotten
that my promise of secrecy, sinful perhaps even in that degree, was but a conditional promise?--or
did you think that a being so sequestered as I am was already dead to the world, even while
he was walking upon its surface?--Know, young lady, that I am indeed dead to the pleasures
and the ordinary business of life, but I am even therefore the more alive to its duties."

"Upon my honour, sir, unless you are pleased to be more explicit, it is impossible for me either
to answer or understand you," said the lady; "you speak too seriously for a masquerade pleasantry,
and yet not clearly enough to make your earnest comprehensible."

"Is this sullenness, Miss Mowbray?" said the clergyman, with increased animation; "Is it levity?--Or
is it alienation of mind?--Even after a fever of the brain, we retain a recollection of the
causes of our illness.--Come, you must and do understand me, when I say, that I will not consent
to your committing a great crime to attain temporal wealth and rank, no, not to make you an
empress. My path is a clear one; and should I hear a whisper breathed of your alliance with
this Earl, or whatever he may be, rely upon it, that I will withdraw the veil, and make your
brother, your bridegroom, and the whole world, acquainted with the situation in which you stand,
and the impossibility of your forming the alliance which you propose to yourself, I am compelled
to say, against the laws of God and man."

"But, sir--sir," answered the lady, rather eagerly than anxiously, "you have not yet told me
what business you have with my marriage, or what arguments you can bring against it."

"Madam," replied Mr. Cargill, "in your present state of mind, and in such a scene as this,
I cannot enter upon a topic for which the season is unfit, and you, I am sorry to say, are
totally unprepared. It is enough that you know the grounds on which you stand. At a fitter
opportunity, I will, as it is my duty, lay before you the enormity of what you are said to
have meditated, with the freedom which becomes one, who, however humble, is appointed to explain
to his fellow-creatures the laws of his Maker. In the meantime, I am not afraid that you will
take any hasty step, after such a warning as this."

So saying, he turned from the lady with that dignity which a conscious discharge of duty confers,
yet, at the same time, with a sense of deep pain, inflicted by the careless levity of her whom
he addressed. She did not any longer attempt to detain him, but made her escape from the arbour
by one alley, as she heard voices which seemed to approach it from another. The clergyman,
who took the opposite direction, met in full encounter a whispering and tittering pair, who
seemed, at his sudden appearance, to check their tone of familiarity, and assume an appearance
of greater distance towards each other. The lady was no other than the fair Queen of the Amazons,
who seemed to have adopted the recent partiality of Titania towards Bully Bottom, being in
conference such and so close as we have described, with the late representative of the Athenian
weaver, whom his recent visit to his chamber had metamorphosed into the more gallant disguise
of an ancient Spanish cavalier. He now appeared with cloak and drooping plume, sword, poniard,
and guitar, richly dressed at all points, as for a serenade beneath his mistress's window;
a silk mask at the breast of his embroidered doublet hung ready to be assumed in case of intrusion,
as an appropriate part of the national dress.

It sometimes happened to Mr. Cargill, as we believe it may chance to other men much subject
to absence of mind, that, contrary to their wont, and much after the manner of a sunbeam suddenly
piercing a deep mist, and illuminating one particular object in the landscape, some sudden
recollection rushes upon them, and seems to compel them to act under it, as under the influence
of complete certainty and conviction. Mr. Cargill had no sooner set eyes on the Spanish cavalier,
in whom he neither knew the Earl of Etherington, nor recognised Bully Bottom, than with hasty
emotion he seized on his reluctant hand, and exclaimed, with a mixture of eagerness and solemnity,
"I rejoice to see you!--Heaven has sent you here in its own good time."

"I thank you, sir," replied Lord Etherington, very coldly, "I believe you have the joy of the
meeting entirely on your side, as I cannot remember having seen you before."

"Is not your name Bulmer?" said the clergyman. "I--I know--I am sometimes apt to make mistakes--But
I am sure your name is Bulmer?"

"Not that ever I or my godfathers heard of--my name was Bottom half an hour ago--perhaps that
makes the confusion," answered the Earl, with very cold and distant politeness;--"Permit me
to pass, sir, that I may attend the lady."

"Quite unnecessary," answered Lady Binks; "I leave you to adjust your mutual recollections
with your new old friend, my lord--he seems to have something to say." So saying, the lady
walked on, not perhaps sorry of an opportunity to show apparent indifference for his lordship's
society in the presence of one who had surprised them in what might seem a moment of exuberant
intimacy.

"You detain me, sir," said the Earl of Etherington to Mr. Cargill, who, bewildered and uncertain,
still kept himself placed so directly before the young nobleman, as to make it impossible for
him to pass, without absolutely pushing him to one side. "I must really attend the lady," he
added, making another effort to walk on.

"Young man," said Mr. Cargill, "you cannot disguise yourself from me. I am sure--my mind assures
me, that you are that very Bulmer whom Heaven hath sent here to prevent crime."

"And you," said Lord Etherington, "whom my mind assures me I never saw in my life, are sent
hither by the devil, I think, to create confusion."

"I beg pardon, sir," said the clergyman, staggered by the calm and pertinacious denial of the
Earl--"I beg pardon if I am in a mistake--that is, if I am really in a mistake--but I am not--I
am sure I am not!--That look--that smile--I am NOT mistaken. You are Valentine Bulmer--the
very Valentine Bulmer whom I--but I will not make your private affairs any part of this exposition--enough,
you are Valentine Bulmer."

"Valentine?--Valentine?" answered Lord Etherington, impatiently,--"I am neither Valentine nor
Orson--I wish you good-morning, sir."

"Stay, sir, stay, I charge you," said the clergyman; "if you are unwilling to be known yourself,
it may be because you have forgotten who I am--Let me name myself as the Reverend Josiah Cargill,
minister of St. Ronan's."

"If you bear a character so venerable, sir," replied the young nobleman,--"in which, however,
I am not in the least interested,--I think when you make your morning draught a little too
potent, it might be as well for you to stay at home and sleep it off, before coming into company."

"In the name of Heaven, young gentleman," said Mr. Cargill, "lay aside this untimely and unseemly
jesting! and tell me if you be not--as I cannot but still believe you to be--that same youth,
who, seven years since, left in my deposit a solemn secret, which, if I should unfold to the
wrong person, woe would be my own heart, and evil the consequences which might ensue!"

"You are very pressing with me, sir," said the Earl; "and, in exchange, I will be equally frank
with you.--I am not the man whom you mistake me for, and you may go seek him where you will--It
will be still more lucky for you if you chance to find your own wits in the course of your
researches; for I must tell you plainly, I think they are gone somewhat astray." So saying,
with a gesture expressive of a determined purpose to pass on, Mr. Cargill had no alternative
but to make way, and suffer him to proceed.

The worthy clergyman stood as if rooted to the ground, and, with his usual habit of thinking
aloud exclaimed to himself, "My fancy has played me many a bewildering trick, but this is the
most extraordinary of them all!--What can this young man think of me? It must have been my
conversation with that unhappy young lady that has made such an impression upon me as to deceive
my very eyesight, and causes me to connect with her history the face of the next person that
I met--What must the stranger think of me!"

"Why, what every one thinks of thee that knows thee, prophet," said the friendly voice of Touchwood,
accompanying his speech with an awakening slap on the clergyman's shoulder; "and that is, that
thou art an unfortunate philosopher of Laputa, who has lost his flapper in the throng.--Come
along--having me once more by your side, you need fear nothing. Why, now I look at you closer,
you look as if you had seen a basilisk--not that there is any such thing, otherwise I must
have seen it myself, in the course of my travels--but you seem pale and frightened--What the
devil is the matter?"

"Nothing," answered the clergyman, "except that I have even this very moment made an egregious
fool of myself."

"Pooh, pooh, that is nothing to sigh over, prophet.--Every man does so at least twice in the
four-and-twenty hours," said Touchwood.

"But I had nearly betrayed to a stranger, a secret deeply concerning the honour of an ancient
family."

"That was wrong, Doctor," said Touchwood; "take care of that in future; and, indeed, I would
advise you not to speak even to your beadle, Johnie Tirlsneck, until you have assured yourself,
by at least three pertinent questions and answers, that you have the said Johnie corporeally
and substantially in presence before you, and that your fancy has not invested some stranger
with honest Johnie's singed periwig and threadbare brown joseph--Come along--come along."

So saying, he hurried forward the perplexed clergyman, who in vain made all the excuses he
could think of in order to effect his escape from the scene of gaiety, in which he was so unexpectedly
involved. He pleaded headache; and his friend assured him that a mouthful of food, and a glass
of wine, would mend it. He stated he had business; and Touchwood replied that he could have
none but composing his next sermon, and reminded him that it was two days till Sunday. At length,
Mr. Cargill confessed that he had some reluctance again to see the stranger, on whom he had
endeavoured with such pertinacity to fix an acquaintance, which he was now well assured existed
only in his own imagination. The traveller treated his scruples with scorn, and said, that
guests meeting in this general manner, had no more to do with each other than if they were
assembled in a caravansary.

"So that you need not say a word to him in the way of apology or otherwise--or, what will be
still better, I, who have seen so much of the world, will make the pretty speech for you."
As they spoke, he dragged the divine towards the house, where they were now summoned by the
appointed signal, and where the company were assembling in the old saloon already noticed,
previous to passing into the dining-room, where the refreshments were prepared. "Now, Doctor,"
continued the busy friend of Mr. Cargill, "let us see which of all these people has been the
subject of your blunder. Is it yon animal of a Highlandman?--or the impertinent brute that
wants to be thought a boatswain?--or which of them all is it?--Ay, here they come, two and
two, Newgate fashion--the young Lord of the Manor with old Lady Penelope--does he set up for
Ulysses, I wonder?--The Earl of Etherington with Lady Bingo--methinks it should have been with
Miss Mowbray."

"The Earl of what, did you say?" quoth the clergyman, anxiously. "How is it you titled that
young man in the Spanish dress?"

"Oho!" said the traveller; "what, I have discovered the goblin that has scared you?--Come along--come
along--I will make you acquainted with him." So saying, he dragged him towards Lord Etherington;
and before the divine could make his negative intelligible, the ceremony of introduction had
taken place. "My Lord Etherington, allow me to present Mr. Cargill, minister of this parish--a
learned gentleman, whose head is often in the Holy Land, when his person seems present among
his friends. He suffers extremely, my lord, under the sense of mistaking your lordship for
the Lord knows who; but when you are acquainted with him, you will find that he can make a
hundred stranger mistakes than that, so we hope that your lordship will take no prejudice or
offence."

"There can be no offence taken where no offence is intended," said Lord Etherington, with much
urbanity. "It is I who ought to beg the reverend gentleman's pardon, for hurrying from him
without allowing him to make a complete eclaircissement. I beg his pardon for an abruptness
which the place and the time--for I was immediately engaged in a lady's service--rendered unavoidable."

Mr. Cargill gazed on the young nobleman as he pronounced these words, with the easy indifference
of one who apologizes to an inferior in order to maintain his own character for politeness,
but with perfect indifference whether his excuses are or are not held satisfactory. And as
the clergyman gazed, the belief which had so strongly clung to him that the Earl of Etherington
and young Valentine Bulmer were the same individual person, melted away like frostwork before
the morning sun, and that so completely, that he marvelled at himself for having ever entertained
it. Some strong resemblance of features there must have been to have led him into such a delusion;
but the person, the tone, the manner of expression, were absolutely different; and his attention
being now especially directed towards these particulars, Mr. Cargill was inclined to think
the two personages almost totally dissimilar.

The clergyman had now only to make his apology, and fall back from the head of the table to
some lower seat, which his modesty would have preferred, when he was suddenly seized upon by
the Lady Penelope Penfeather, who, detaining him in the most elegant and persuasive manner
possible, insisted that they should be introduced to each other by Mr. Mowbray, and that Mr.
Cargill should sit beside her at table.--She had heard so much of his learning--so much of
his excellent character--desired so much to make his acquaintance, that she could not think
of losing an opportunity, which Mr. Cargill's learned seclusion rendered so very rare--in a
word, catching the Black Lion was the order of the day; and her ladyship having trapped her
prey, soon sat triumphant with him by her side.

A second separation was thus effected betwixt Touchwood and his friend; for the former, not
being included in the invitation, or, indeed, at all noticed by Lady Penelope, was obliged
to find room at a lower part of the table, where he excited much surprise by the dexterity
with which he dispatched boiled rice with chop-sticks.

Mr. Cargill being thus exposed, without a consort, to the fire of Lady Penelope, speedily found
it so brisk and incessant, as to drive his complaisance, little tried as it had been for many
years by small talk, almost to extremity. She began by begging him to draw his chair close,
for an instinctive terror of fine ladies had made him keep his distance. At the same time,
she hoped "he was not afraid of her as an Episcopalian; her father had belonged to that communion;
for," she added, with what was intended for an arch smile, "we were somewhat naughty in the
forty-five, as you may have heard; but all that was over, and she was sure Mr. Cargill was
too liberal to entertain any dislike or shyness on that score.--She could assure him she was
far from disliking the Presbyterian form--indeed she had often wished to hear it, where she
was sure to be both delighted and edified" (here a gracious smile) "in the church of St. Ronan's--and
hoped to do so whenever Mr. Mowbray had got a stove, which he had ordered from Edinburgh, on
purpose to air his pew for her accommodation."

All this, which was spoken with wreathed smiles and nods, and so much civility as to remind
the clergyman of a cup of tea over-sweetened to conceal its want of strength, and flavour,
required and received no farther answer than an accommodating look and acquiescent bow.

"Ah, Mr. Cargill," continued the inexhaustible Lady Penelope, "your profession has so many
demands on the heart as well as the understanding--is so much connected with the kindnesses
and charities of our nature--with our best and purest feelings, Mr. Cargill! You know what
Goldsmith says:--

    ----'to his duty prompt at every call,
    He watch'd, and wept, and felt, and pray'd for all.'

And then Dryden has such a picture of a parish priest, so inimitable, one would think, did
we not hear now and then of some living mortal presuming to emulate its features," (here another
insinuating nod and expressive smile.)

    "'Refined himself to soul to curb the sense,
    And almost made a sin of abstinence.
    Yet had his aspect nothing of severe,
    But such a face as promised him sincere;
    Nothing reserved or sullen was to see,
    But sweet regard and pleasing sanctity.'"

While her ladyship declaimed, the clergyman's wandering eye confessed his absent mind; his
thoughts travelling, perhaps, to accomplish a truce betwixt Saladin and Conrade of Mountserrat,
unless they chanced to be occupied with some occurrences of that very day, so that the lady
was obliged to recall her indocile auditor with the leading question, "You are well acquainted
with Dryden, of course, Mr. Cargill?"

"I have not the honour, madam," said Mr. Cargill, starting from his reverie, and but half understanding
the question he replied to.

"Sir!" said the lady in surprise.

"Madam!--my lady!" answered Mr. Cargill, in embarrassment.

"I asked you if you admired Dryden;--but you learned men are so absent--perhaps you thought
I said Leyden."

"A lamp too early quenched, madam," said Mr Cargill; "I knew him well."

"And so did I," eagerly replied the lady of the cerulean buskin; "he spoke ten languages--how
mortifying to poor me, Mr. Cargill, who could only boast of five!--but I have studied a little
since that time--I must have you to help me in my studies, Mr. Cargill--it will be charitable--but
perhaps you are afraid of a female pupil?"

A thrill, arising from former recollections, passed through poor Cargill's mind, with as much
acuteness as the pass of a rapier might have done through his body; and we cannot help remarking,
that a forward prater in society, like a busy bustler in a crowd, besides all other general
points of annoyance, is eternally rubbing upon some tender point, and galling men's feelings,
without knowing or regarding it.

"You must assist me, besides, in my little charities, Mr. Cargill, now that you and I are become
so well acquainted.--There is that Anne Heggie--I sent her a trifle yesterday, but I am told--I
should not mention it, but only one would not have the little they have to bestow lavished
on an improper object--I am told she is not quite proper--an unwedded mother, in short, Mr.
Cargill--and it would be especially unbecoming in me to encourage profligacy."

"I believe, madam," said the clergyman, gravely, "the poor woman's distress may justify your
ladyship's bounty, even if her conduct has been faulty."

"O, I am no prude, neither, I assure you, Mr. Cargill," answered the Lady Penelope. "I never
withdraw my countenance from any one but on the most irrefragable grounds. I could tell you
of an intimate friend of my own, whom I have supported against the whole clamour of the people
at the Well, because I believe, from the bottom of my soul, she is only thoughtless--nothing
in the world but thoughtless--O Mr. Cargill, how can you look across the table so intelligently?--who
would have thought it of you?--Oh fie, to make such personal applications!"

"Upon my word, madam, I am quite at a loss to comprehend"----

"Oh fie, fie, Mr. Cargill," throwing in as much censure and surprise as a confidential whisper
can convey--"you looked at my Lady Binks--I know what you think, but you are quite wrong, I
assure you; you are entirely wrong.--I wish she would not flirt quite so much with that young
Lord Etherington though, Mr. Cargill--her situation is particular.--Indeed, I believe she wears
out his patience; for see he is leaving the room before we sit down--how singular!--And then,
do you not think it very odd, too, that Miss Mowbray has not come down to us?"

"Miss Mowbray!--what of Miss Mowbray--is she not here?" said Mr. Cargill, starting, and with
an expression of interest which he had not yet bestowed on any of her ladyship's liberal communications.

"Ay, poor Miss Mowbray," said Lady Penelope, lowering her voice, and shaking her head; "she
has not appeared--her brother went up stairs a few minutes since, I believe, to bring her down,
and so we are all left here to look at each other.--How very awkward!--But you know Clara Mowbray."

"I, madam?" said Mr. Cargill, who was now sufficiently attentive; "I really--I know Miss Mowbray--that
is, I knew her some years since--but your ladyship knows she has been long in bad health--uncertain
health at least, and I have seen nothing of the young lady for a very long time."

"I know it, my dear Mr. Cargill--I know it," continued the Lady Penelope, in the same tone
of deep sympathy, "I know it; and most unhappy surely have been the circumstances that have
separated her from your advice and friendly counsel.--All this I am aware of--and to say truth,
it has been chiefly on poor Clara's account that I have been giving you the trouble of fixing
an acquaintance upon you.--You and I together, Mr. Cargill, might do wonders to cure her unhappy
state of mind--I am sure we might--that is, if you could bring your mind to repose absolute
confidence in me."

"Has Miss Mowbray desired your ladyship to converse with me upon any subject which interests
her?" said the clergyman, with more cautious shrewdness than Lady Penelope had suspected him
of possessing. "I will in that case be happy to hear the nature of her communication; and whatever
my poor services can perform, your ladyship may command them."

"I--I--I cannot just assert," said her ladyship with hesitation, "that I have Miss Mowbray's
direct instructions to speak to you, Mr. Cargill, upon the present subject. But my affection
for the dear girl is so very great--and then, you know, the inconveniences which may arise
from this match."

"From which match, Lady Penelope?" said Mr. Cargill.

"Nay, now, Mr. Cargill, you really carry the privilege of Scotland too far--I have not put
a single question to you, but what you have answered by another--let us converse intelligibly
for five minutes, if you can but condescend so far."

"For any length of time which your ladyship may please to command," said Mr. Cargill, "provided
the subject regard your ladyship's own affairs or mine,--could I suppose these last for a moment
likely to interest you."

"Out upon you," said the lady, laughing affectedly; "you should really have been a Catholic
priest instead of a Presbyterian. What an invaluable father confessor have the fair sex lost
in you, Mr. Cargill, and how dexterously you would have evaded any cross-examinations which
might have committed your penitents!"

"Your ladyship's raillery is far too severe for me to withstand or reply to," said Mr. Cargill,
bowing with more ease than her ladyship expected; and, retiring gently backward, he extricated
himself from a conversation which he began to find somewhat embarrassing.

At that moment a murmur of surprise took place in the apartment, which was just entered by
Miss Mowbray, leaning on her brother's arm. The cause of this murmur will be best understood,
by narrating what had passed betwixt the brother and sister.

CHAPTER III.

EXPOSTULATION.

    Seek not the feast in these irreverent robes;
    Go to my chamber--put on clothes of mine.

The Taming of the Shrew.

It was with a mixture of anxiety, vexation, and resentment, that Mowbray, just when he had
handed Lady Penelope into the apartment where the tables were covered, observed that his sister
was absent, and that Lady Binks was hanging on the arm of Lord Etherington, to whose rank it
would properly have fallen to escort the lady of the house. An anxious and hasty glance cast
through the room, ascertained that she was absent, nor could the ladies present give any account
of her after she had quitted the gardens, except that Lady Penelope had spoken a few words
with her in her own apartment, immediately after the scenic entertainment was concluded.

Thither Mowbray hurried, complaining aloud of his sister's laziness in dressing, but internally
hoping that the delay was occasioned by nothing of a more important character.

He hastened up stairs, entered her sitting-room without ceremony, and knocking at the door
of her dressing-room, begged her to make haste.

"Here is the whole company impatient," he said, assuming a tone of pleasantry; "and Sir Bingo
Binks exclaiming for your presence, that he may be let loose on the cold meat."

"Paddock calls," said Clara from within; "anon--anon!"

"Nay, it is no jest, Clara," continued her brother; "for here is Lady Penelope miauling like
a starved cat!"

"I come--I come, greymalkin," answered Clara, in the same vein as before, and entered the parlour
as she spoke, her finery entirely thrown aside, and dressed in the riding-habit which was her
usual and favourite attire.

Her brother was both surprised and offended. "On my soul," he said, "Clara, this is behaving
very ill. I indulge you in every freak upon ordinary occasions, but you might surely on this
day, of all others, have condescended to appear something like my sister, and a gentlewoman
receiving company in her own house."

"Why, dearest John," said Clara, "so that the guests have enough to eat and drink, I cannot
conceive why I should concern myself about their finery, or they trouble themselves about my
plain clothes."

"Come, come, Clara, this will not do," answered Mowbray; "you must positively go back into
your dressing-room, and huddle your things on as fast as you can. You cannot go down to the
company dressed as you are."

"I certainly can, and I certainly will, John--I have made a fool of myself once this morning
to oblige you, and for the rest of the day I am determined to appear in my own dress; that
is, in one which shows I neither belong to the world, nor wish to have any thing to do with
its fashions."

"By my soul, Clara, I will make you repent this!" said Mowbray, with more violence than he
usually exhibited where his sister was concerned.

"You cannot, dear John," she coolly replied, "unless by beating me; and that I think you would
repent of yourself."

"I do not know but what it were the best way of managing you," said Mowbray, muttering between
his teeth; but, commanding his violence, he only said aloud, "I am sure, from long experience,
Clara, that your obstinacy will at the long run beat my anger. Do let us compound the point
for once--keep your old habit, since you are so fond of making a sight of yourself, and only
throw the shawl round your shoulders--it has been exceedingly admired, and every woman in the
house longs to see it closer--they can hardly believe it genuine."

"Do be a man, Mowbray," answered his sister; "meddle with your horse-sheets, and leave shawls
alone."

"Do you be a woman, Clara, and think a little on them, when custom and decency render it necessary.--Nay,
is it possible!--Will you not stir--not oblige me in such a trifle as this?"

"I would indeed if I could," said Clara; "but since you must know the truth--do not be angry--I
have not the shawl. I have given it away--given it up, perhaps I should say, to the rightful
owner.--She has promised me something or other in exchange for it, however. I have given it
to Lady Penelope."

"Yes," answered Mowbray, "some of the work of her own fair hands, I suppose, or a couple of
her ladyship's drawings, made up into fire-screens.--On my word--on my soul, this is too bad!--It
is using me too ill, Clara--far too ill. If the thing had been of no value, my giving it to
you should have fixed some upon it.--Good-even to you; we will do as well as we can without you."

"Nay, but, my dear John--stay but a moment," said Clara, taking his arm as he sullenly turned
towards the door; "there are but two of us on the earth--do not let us quarrel about a trumpery
shawl."

"Trumpery!" said Mowbray; "It cost fifty guineas, by G--, which I can but ill spare--trumpery!"

"O, never think of the cost," said Clara; "it was your gift, and that should, I own, have been
enough to have made me keep to my death's day the poorest rag of it. But really Lady Penelope
looked so very miserable, and twisted her poor face into so many odd expressions of anger and
chagrin, that I resigned it to her, and agreed to say she had lent it to me for the performance.
I believe she was afraid that I would change my mind, or that you would resume it as a seignorial
waif; for, after she had walked a few turns with it wrapped around her, merely by way of taking
possession, she dispatched it by a special messenger to her apartment at the Well."

"She may go to the devil," said Mowbray, "for a greedy unconscionable jade, who has varnished
over a selfish, spiteful heart, that is as hard as a flint, with a fine glossing of taste and
sensibility!"

"Nay, but, John," replied his sister, "she really had something to complain of in the present
case. The shawl had been bespoken on her account, or very nearly so--she showed me the tradesman's
letter--only some agent of yours had come in between with the ready money, which no tradesman
can resist.--Ah, John! I suspect half of your anger is owing to the failure of a plan to mortify
poor Lady Pen, and that she has more to complain of than you have.--Come, come, you have had
the advantage of her in the first display of this fatal piece of finery, if wearing it on my
poor shoulders can be called a display--e'en make her welcome to the rest for peace's sake,
and let us go down to these good folks, and you shall see how pretty and civil I shall behave."

Mowbray, a spoiled child, and with all the petted habits of indulgence, was exceedingly fretted
at the issue of the scheme which he had formed for mortifying Lady Penelope; but he saw at
once the necessity of saying nothing more to his sister on the subject. Vengeance he privately
muttered against Lady Pen, whom he termed an absolute harpy in blue-stockings; unjustly forgetting,
that in the very important affair at issue, he himself had been the first to interfere with
and defeat her ladyship's designs on the garment in question.

"But I will blow her," he said, "I will blow her ladyship's conduct in the business! She shall
not outwit a poor whimsical girl like Clara, without hearing it on more sides than one."

With this Christian and gentlemanlike feeling towards Lady Penelope, he escorted his sister
into the eating-room, and led her to her proper place at the head of the table. It was the
negligence displayed in her dress, which occasioned the murmur of surprise that greeted Clara
on her entrance. Mowbray, as he placed his sister in her chair, made her general apology for
her late appearance, and her riding-habit. "Some fairies," he supposed, "Puck, or such like
tricksy goblin, had been in her wardrobe, and carried off whatever was fit for wearing."

There were answers from every quarter--that it would have been too much to expect Miss Mowbray
to dress for their amusement a second time--that nothing she chose to wear could misbecome
Miss Mowbray--that she had set like the sun, in her splendid scenic dress, and now rose like
the full moon in her ordinary attire, (this flight was by the Reverend Mr. Chatterly,)--and
that "Miss Mowbray being at hame, had an unco gude right to please hersell;" which last piece
of politeness, being at least as much to the purpose as any that had preceded it, was the contribution
of honest Mrs. Blower; and was replied to by Miss Mowbray with a particular and most gracious bow.

Mrs. Blower ought to have rested her colloquial fame, as Dr. Johnson would have said, upon
a compliment so evidently acceptable, but no one knows where to stop. She thrust her broad,
good-natured, delighted countenance forward, and sending her voice from the bottom to the top
of the table, like her umquhile husband when calling to his mate during a breeze, wondered
"why Miss Clara Moubrie didna wear that grand shawl she had on at the play-making, and her
just sitting upon the wind of a door. Nae doubt it was for fear of the soup, and the butter-boats,
and the like;--but she had three shawls, which she really fand was ane ower mony--if Miss Moubrie
wad like to wear ane o' them--it was but imitashion, to be sure--but it wad keep her shouthers
as warm as if it were real Indian, and if it were dirtied it was the less matter."

"Much obliged, Mrs. Blower," said Mowbray unable to resist the temptation which this speech
offered; "but my sister is not yet of quality sufficient, to entitle her to rob her friends
of their shawls."

Lady Penelope coloured to the eyes, and bitter was the retort that arose to her tongue; but
she suppressed it, and nodding to Miss Mowbray in the most friendly way in the world, yet with
a very particular expression, she only said, "So you have told your brother of the little transaction
which we have had this morning?--Tu me lo pagherai--I give you fair warning, take care none
of your secrets come into my keeping--that's all."

Upon what mere trifles do the important events of human life sometimes depend! If Lady Penelope
had given way to her first movements of resentment, the probable issue would have been some
such half-comic half-serious skirmish, as her ladyship and Mr. Mowbray had often amused the
company withal. But revenge which is suppressed and deferred, is always most to be dreaded;
and to the effects of the deliberate resentment which Lady Penelope cherished upon this trifling
occasion, must be traced the events which our history has to record. Secretly did she determine
to return the shawl, which she had entertained hopes of making her own upon very reasonable
terms; and as secretly did she resolve to be revenged both upon brother and sister, conceiving
herself already possessed, to a certain degree, of a clew to some part of their family history,
which might serve for a foundation on which to raise her projected battery. The ancient offences
and emulation of importance of the Laird of St. Ronan's, and the superiority which had been
given to Clara in the exhibition of the day, combined with the immediate cause of resentment;
and it only remained for her to consider how her revenge should be most signally accomplished.

Whilst such thoughts were passing through Lady Penelope's mind, Mowbray was searching with
his eyes for the Earl of Etherington, judging that it might be proper, in the course of the
entertainment, or before the guests had separated, to make him formally acquainted with his
sister, as a preface to the more intimate connexion which must, in prosecution of the plan
agreed upon, take place betwixt them. Greatly to his surprise, the young Earl was no where
visible, and the place which he had occupied by the side of Lady Binks had been quietly appropriated
by Winterblossom, as the best and softest chair in the room, and nearest to the head of the
table, where the choicest of the entertainment is usually arranged. This honest gentleman,
after a few insipid compliments to her ladyship upon her performance as Queen of the Amazons,
had betaken himself to the much more interesting occupation of ogling the dishes, through the
glass which hung suspended at his neck by a gold chain of Maltese workmanship. After looking
and wondering for a few seconds, Mowbray addressed himself to the old beau-garçon, and asked
him what had become of Etherington.

"Retreated," said Winterblossom, "and left but his compliments to you behind him--a complaint,
I think, in his wounded arm.--Upon my word, that soup has a most appetizing flavour!--Lady
Penelope, shall I have the honour to help you?--no!--nor you, Lady Binks?--you are too cruel!--I
must comfort myself, like a heathen priest of old, by eating the sacrifice which the deities
have scorned to accept of."

Here he helped himself to the plate of soup which he had in vain offered to the ladies, and
transferred the further duty of dispensing it to Mr. Chatterly; "it is your profession, sir,
to propitiate the divinities--ahem!"

"I did not think Lord Etherington would have left us so soon," said Mowbray; "but we must do
the best we can without his countenance."

So saying, he assumed his place at the bottom of the table, and did his best to support the
character of a hospitable and joyous landlord, while on her part, with much natural grace,
and delicacy of attention calculated to set every body at their ease, his sister presided at
the upper end of the board. But the vanishing of Lord Etherington in a manner so sudden and
unaccountable--the obvious ill-humour of Lady Penelope--and the steady, though passive, sullenness
of Lady Binks, spread among the company a gloom like that produced by an autumnal mist upon
a pleasing landscape. The women were low-spirited, dull, nay, peevish, they did not well know
why; and the men could not be joyous, though the ready resource of old hock and champagne made
some of them talkative.--Lady Penelope broke up the party by well-feigned apprehension of the
difficulties, nay, dangers, of returning by so rough a road. Lady Binks begged a seat with
her ladyship, as Sir Bingo, she said, judging from his devotion to the green flask, was likely
to need their carriage home. From the moment of their departure, it became bad tone to remain
behind; and all, as in a retreating army, were eager to be foremost, excepting MacTurk and
a few stanch topers, who, unused to meet with such good cheer every day of their lives, prudently
determined to make the most of the opportunity.

We will not dwell on the difficulties attending the transportation of a large company by few
carriages, though the delay and disputes thereby occasioned were of course more intolerable
than in the morning, for the parties had no longer the hopes of a happy day before them, as
a bribe to submit to temporary inconvenience. The impatience of many was so great, that, though
the evening was raw, they chose to go on foot rather than await the dull routine of the returning
carriages; and as they retired they agreed, with one consent, to throw the blame of whatever
inconvenience they might sustain on their host and hostess, who had invited so large a party
before getting a shorter and better road made between the Well and Shaws-Castle.

"It would have been so easy to repair the path by the Buck-stane!"

And this was all the thanks which Mr. Mowbray received for an entertainment which had cost
him so much trouble and expense, and had been looked forward to by the good society at the
Well with such impatient expectation.

"It was an unco pleasant show," said the good-natured Mrs. Blower, "only it was a pity it was
sae tediousome; and there was surely an awfu' waste of gauze and muslin."

But so well had Dr. Quackleben improved his numerous opportunities, that the good lady was
much reconciled to affairs in general, by the prospect of coughs, rheumatisms, and other maladies
acquired upon the occasion, which were likely to afford that learned gentleman, in whose prosperity
she much interested herself, a very profitable harvest.

Mowbray, somewhat addicted to the service of Bacchus, did not find himself freed, by the secession
of so large a proportion of the company, from the service of the jolly god, although, upon
the present occasion, he could well have dispensed with his orgies. Neither the song, nor the
pun, nor the jest, had any power to kindle his heavy spirit, mortified as he was by the event
of his party being so different from the brilliant consummation which he had anticipated. The
guests, stanch boon companions, suffered not, however, their party to flag for want of the
landlord's participation, but continued to drink bottle after bottle, with as little regard
for Mr. Mowbray's grave looks, as if they had been carousing at the Mowbray Arms, instead of
the Mowbray mansion-house. Midnight at length released him, when, with an unsteady step, he
sought his own apartment; cursing himself and his companions, consigning his own person with
all dispatch to his bed, and bequeathing those of the company to as many mosses and quagmires,
as could be found betwixt Shaws-Castle and St. Ronan's Well.

CHAPTER IV.

THE PROPOSAL.

    Oh! you would be a vestal maid, I warrant,
    The bride of Heaven--Come--we may shake your purpose;
    For here I bring in hand a jolly suitor
    Hath ta'en degrees in the seven sciences
    That ladies love best--He is young and noble,
    Handsome and valiant, gay, and rich, and liberal.

The Nun.

The morning after a debauch is usually one of reflection, even to the most determined boon
companion; and, in the retrospect of the preceding day, the young Laird of St. Ronan's saw
nothing very consolatory, unless that the excess was not, in the present case, of his own seeking,
but had arisen out of the necessary duties of a landlord, or what were considered as such by
his companions.

But it was not so much his dizzy recollections of the late carouse which haunted him on awakening,
as the inexplicability which seemed to shroud the purposes and conduct of his new ally, the
Earl of Etherington.

That young nobleman had seen Miss Mowbray, had declared his high satisfaction, had warmly and
voluntarily renewed the proposal which he had made ere she was yet known to him--and yet, far
from seeking an opportunity to be introduced to her, he had even left the party abruptly, in
order to avoid the necessary intercourse which must there have taken place between them. His
lordship's flirtation with Lady Binks had not escaped the attention of the sagacious Mowbray--her
ladyship also had been in a hurry to leave Shaws-Castle; and Mowbray promised to himself to
discover the nature of this connexion through Mrs. Gingham, her ladyship's attendant, or otherwise;
vowing deeply at the same time, that no peer in the realm should make an affectation of addressing
Miss Mowbray a cloak for another and more secret intrigue. But his doubts on this subject were
in great measure removed by the arrival of one of Lord Etherington's grooms with the following
letter:--

    "My Dear Mowbray,--You would naturally be surprised at my escape
    from the table yesterday before you returned to it, or your lovely
    sister had graced it with her presence. I must confess my folly; and
    I may do so the more boldly, for, as the footing on which I first
    opened this treaty was not a very romantic one, you will scarce
    suspect me of wishing to render it such. But I did in reality feel,
    during the whole of yesterday, a reluctance which I cannot express,
    to be presented to the lady on whose favour the happiness of my
    future life is to depend, upon such a public occasion, and in the
    presence of so promiscuous a company. I had my mask, indeed, to wear
    while in the promenade, but, of course, that was to be laid aside at
    table, and, consequently, I must have gone through the ceremony of
    introduction; a most interesting moment, which I was desirous to
    defer till a fitter season. I trust you will permit me to call upon
    you at Shaws-Castle this morning, in the hope--the anxious hope--of
    being allowed to pay my duty to Miss Mowbray, and apologize for not
    waiting upon her yesterday. I expect your answer with the utmost
    impatience, being always yours, &c. &c. &c.

"ETHERINGTON."

"This," said St. Ronan's to himself, as he folded the letter deliberately, after having twice
read it over, "seems all fair and above board; I could not wish any thing more explicit; and,
moreover, it puts into black and white, as old Mick would say, what only rested before on our
private conversation. An especial cure for the headache, such a billet as this in a morning."

So saying, he sat him down and wrote an answer, expressing the pleasure he should have in seeing
his lordship as soon as he thought proper. He watched even the departure of the groom, and
beheld him gallop off, with the speed of one who knows that his quick return was expected by
an impatient master.

Mowbray remained for a few minutes by himself, and reflected with delight upon the probable
consequences of this match;--the advancement of his sister--and, above all, the various advantages
which must necessarily accrue to himself, by so close an alliance with one whom he had good
reason to think deep in the secret, and capable of rendering him the most material assistance
in his speculations on the turf and in the sporting world. He then sent a servant to let Miss
Mowbray know that he intended to breakfast with her.

"I suppose, John," said Clara, as her brother entered the apartment, "you are glad of a weaker
cup this morning than those you were drinking last night--you were carousing till after the
first cock."

"Yes," said Mowbray, "that sandbed, old MacTurk, upon whom whole hogsheads make no impression,
did make a bad boy of me--but the day is over, and they will scarce catch me in such another
scrape.--What did you think of the masks?"

"Supported as well," said Clara, "as such folk support the disguise of gentlemen and ladies
during life; and that is, with a great deal of bustle, and very little propriety."

"I saw only one good mask there, and that was a Spaniard," said her brother.

"O, I saw him too," answered Clara; "but he wore his visor on. An old Indian merchant, or some
such thing, seemed to me a better character--the Spaniard did nothing but stalk about and twangle
his guitar, for the amusement of my Lady Binks, as I think."

"He is a very clever fellow, though, that same Spaniard," rejoined Mowbray--"Can you guess
who he is?"

"No, indeed; nor shall I take the trouble of trying. To set to guessing about it, were as bad
as seeing the whole mummery over again."

"Well," replied her brother, "you will allow one thing at least--Bottom was well acted--you
cannot deny that."

"Yes," replied Clara, "that worthy really deserved to wear his ass's head to the end of the
chapter--but what of him?"

"Only conceive that he should be the very same person with that handsome Spaniard," replied
Mowbray.

"Then there is one fool fewer than I thought there was," replied Clara, with the greatest indifference.

Her brother bit his lip.

"Clara," he said, "I believe you are an excellent good girl, and clever to boot, but pray do
not set up for wit and oddity; there is nothing in life so intolerable as pretending to think
differently from other people.--That gentleman was the Earl of Etherington."

This annunciation, though made in what was meant to be an imposing tone, had no impression
on Clara.

"I hope he plays the peer better than the Fidalgo," she replied, carelessly.

"Yes," answered Mowbray, "he is one of the handsomest men of the time, and decidedly fashionable--you
will like him much when you see him in private."

"It is of little consequence whether I do or no," answered Clara.

"You mistake the matter," said Mowbray, gravely; "it may be of considerable consequence."

"Indeed!" said Clara, with a smile; "I must suppose myself, then, too important a person not
to make my approbation necessary to one of your first-rates? He cannot pretend to pass muster
at St. Ronan's without it?--Well, I will depute my authority to Lady Binks, and she shall pass
your new recruits instead of me."

"This is all nonsense, Clara," said Mowbray. "Lord Etherington calls here this very morning,
and wishes to be made known to you. I expect you will receive him as a particular friend of mine."

"With all my heart--so you will engage, after this visit, to keep him down with your other
particular friends at the Well--you know it is a bargain that you bring neither buck nor pointer
into my parlour--the one worries my cat, and the other my temper."

"You mistake me entirely, Clara--this is a very different visitor from any I have ever introduced
to you--I expect to see him often here, and I hope you and he will be better friends than you
think of. I have more reasons for wishing this, than I have now time to tell you."

Clara remained silent for an instant, then looked at her brother with an anxious and scrutinizing
glance, as if she wished to penetrate into his inmost purpose.

"If I thought,"--she said, after a minute's consideration, and with an altered and disturbed
tone; "but no--I will not think that Heaven intends me such a blow--least of all, that it should
come from your hands." She walked hastily to the window, and threw it open--then shut it again,
and returned to her seat, saying, with a constrained smile, "May Heaven forgive you, brother,
but you frightened me heartily."

"I did not mean to do so, Clara," said Mowbray, who saw the necessity of soothing her; "I only
alluded in joke to those chances that are never out of other girls' heads, though you never
seem to calculate on them."

"I wish you, my dear John," said Clara, struggling to regain entire composure, "I wish you
would profit by my example, and give up the science of chance also--it will not avail you."

"How d'ye know that?--I'll show you the contrary, you silly wench," answered Mowbray--"Here
is a banker's bill, payable to your own order, for the cash you lent me, and something over--don't
let old Mick have the fingering, but let Bindloose manage it for you--he is the honester man
between two d----d knaves."

"Will not you, brother, send it to the man Bindloose yourself?"

"No,--no," replied Mowbray--"he might confuse it with some of my transactions, and so you forfeit
your stake."

"Well, I am glad you are able to pay me, for I want to buy Campbell's new work."

"I wish you joy of your purchase--but don't scratch me for not caring about it--I know as little
of books as you of the long odds. And come now, be serious, and tell me if you will be a good
girl--lay aside your whims, and receive this English young nobleman like a lady as you are?"

"That were easy," said Clara--"but--but--Pray, ask no more of me than just to see him.--Say
to him at once, I am a poor creature in body, in mind, in spirits, in temper, in understanding--above
all, say that I can receive him only once."

"I shall say no such thing," said Mowbray, bluntly; "it is good to be plain with you at once--I
thought of putting off this discussion--but since it must come, the sooner it is over the better.--You
are to understand, Clara Mowbray, that Lord Etherington has a particular view in this visit,
and that his view has my full sanction and approbation."

"I thought so," said Clara, in the same altered tone of voice in which she had before spoken;
"my mind foreboded this last of misfortunes!--But, Mowbray, you have no child before you--I
neither will nor can see this nobleman."

"How!" exclaimed Mowbray, fiercely; "do you dare return me so peremptory an answer?--Think
better of it, for, if we differ, you will find you will have the worst of the game."

"Rely upon it," she continued, with more vehemence, "I will see him nor no man upon the footing
you mention--my resolution is taken, and threats and entreaties will prove equally unavailing."

"Upon my word, madam," said Mowbray, "you have, for a modest and retired young lady, plucked
up a goodly spirit of your own!--But you shall find mine equals it. If you do not agree to
see my friend Lord Etherington, ay, and to receive him with the politeness due to the consideration
I entertain for him, by Heaven! Clara, I will no longer regard you as my father's daughter.
Think what you are giving up--the affection and protection of a brother--and for what?--merely
for an idle point of etiquette.--You cannot, I suppose, even in the workings of your romantic
brain, imagine that the days of Clarissa Harlowe and Harriet Byron are come back again, when
women were married by main force? and it is monstrous vanity in you to suppose that Lord Etherington,
since he has honoured you with any thoughts at all, will not be satisfied with a proper and
civil refusal--You are no such prize, methinks, that the days of romance are to come back for you."

"I care not what days they are," said Clara--"I tell you I will not see Lord Etherington, or
any one else, upon such preliminaries as you have stated--I cannot--I will not--and I ought
not.--Had you meant me to receive him, which can be a matter of no consequence whatever, you
should have left him on the footing of an ordinary visitor--as it is, I will not see him."

"You shall see and hear him both," said Mowbray; "you shall find me as obstinate as you are--as
willing to forget I am a brother, as you to forget that you have one."

"It is time, then," replied Clara, "that this house, once our father's, should no longer hold
us both. I can provide for myself, and may God bless you!"

"You take it coolly, madam," said her brother, walking through the apartment with much anxiety
both of look and gesture.

"I do," she answered, "for it is what I have often foreseen--Yes, brother, I have often foreseen
that you would make your sister the subject of your plots and schemes, so soon as other stakes
failed you. That hour is come, and I am, as you see, prepared to meet it."

"And where may you propose to retire to?" said Mowbray. "I think that I, your only relation
and natural guardian, have a right to know that--my honour and that of my family is concerned."

"Your honour!" she retorted, with a keen glance at him; "your interest, I suppose you mean,
is somehow connected with the place of my abode.--But keep yourself patient--the den of the
rock, the linn of the brook, should be my choice, rather than a palace without my freedom."

"You are mistaken, however," said Mowbray, sternly, "if you hope to enjoy more freedom than
I think you capable of making a good use of. The law authorizes, and reason, and even affection,
require, that you should be put under restraint for your own safety, and that of your character.
You roamed the woods a little too much in my father's time, if all stories be true."

"I did--I did indeed, Mowbray," said Clara, weeping; "God pity me, and forgive you for upbraiding
me with my state of mind--I know I cannot sometimes trust my own judgment; but is it for you
to remind me of this?"

Mowbray was at once softened and embarrassed.

"What folly is this?" he said; "you say the most cutting things to me--are ready to fly from
my house--and when I am provoked to make an angry answer, you burst into tears!"

"Say you did not mean what you said, my dearest brother!" exclaimed Clara; "O say you did not
mean it!--Do not take my liberty from me--it is all I have left, and, God knows, it is a poor
comfort in the sorrows I undergo. I will put a fair face on every thing--will go down to the
Well--will wear what you please, and say what you please--but O! leave me the liberty of my
solitude here--let me weep alone in the house of my father--and do not force a broken-hearted
sister to lay her death at your door.--My span must be a brief one, but let not your hand shake
the sand-glass!--Disturb me not--let me pass quietly--I do not ask this so much for my sake
as for your own. I would have you think of me, sometimes, Mowbray, after I am gone, and without
the bitter reflections which the recollection of harsh usage will assuredly bring with it.
Pity me, were it but for your own sake.--I have deserved nothing but compassion at your hand--There
are but two of us on earth, why should we make each other miserable?"

She accompanied these entreaties with a flood of tears, and the most heart-bursting sobs. Mowbray
knew not what to determine. On the one hand, he was bound by his promise to the Earl; on the
other, his sister was in no condition to receive such a visitor; nay, it was most probable,
that if he adopted the strong measure of compelling her to receive him, her behaviour would
probably be such as totally to break off the projected match, on the success of which he had
founded so many castles in the air. In this dilemma, he had again recourse to argument.

"Clara," he said, "I am, as I have repeatedly said, your only relation and guardian--if there
be any real reason why you ought not to receive, and, at least, make a civil reply to such
a negotiation as the Earl of Etherington has thought fit to open, surely I ought to be intrusted
with it. You enjoyed far too much of that liberty which you seem to prize so highly during
my father's lifetime--in the last years of it at least--have you formed any foolish attachment
during that time, which now prevents you from receiving such a visit as Lord Etherington has
threatened?"

"Threatened!--the expression is well chosen," said Miss Mowbray; "and nothing can be more dreadful
than such a threat, excepting its accomplishment."

"I am glad your spirits are reviving," replied her brother; "but that is no answer to my question."

"Is it necessary," said Clara, "that one must have actually some engagement or entanglement,
to make them unwilling to be given in marriage, or even to be pestered upon such a subject?--Many
young men declare they intend to die bachelors, why may not I be permitted to commence old
maid at three-and-twenty?--Let me do so, like a kind brother, and there were never nephews
and nieces so petted and so scolded, so nursed and so cuffed by a maiden aunt, as your children,
when you have them, shall be by aunt Clara."

"And why not say all this to Lord Etherington?" said Mowbray; "wait until he propose such a
terrible bugbear as matrimony, before you refuse to receive him. Who knows, the whim that he
hinted at may have passed away--he was, as you say, flirting with Lady Binks, and her ladyship
has a good deal of address, as well as beauty."

"Heaven improve both, (in an honest way,) if she will but keep his lordship to herself!" said
Clara.

"Well, then," continued her brother, "things standing thus, I do not think you will have much
trouble with his lordship--no more, perhaps, than just to give him a civil denial. After having
spoken on such a subject to a man of my condition, he cannot well break off without you give
him an apology."

"If that is all," said Clara, "he shall, as soon as he gives me an opportunity, receive such
an answer as will leave him at liberty to woo any one whatsoever of Eve's daughters, excepting
Clara Mowbray. Methinks I am so eager to set the captive free, that I now wish as much for
his lordship's appearance as I feared it a little while since."

"Nay, nay, but let us go fair and softly," said her brother. "You are not to refuse him before
he asks the question."

"Certainly," said Clara; "but I well know how to manage that--he shall never ask the question
at all. I will restore Lady Binks's admirer, without accepting so much as a civility in ransom."

"Worse and worse, Clara," answered Mowbray; "you are to remember he is my friend and guest,
and he must not be affronted in my house. Leave things to themselves.--Besides, consider an
instant, Clara--had you not better take a little time for reflection in this case? The offer
is a splendid one--title--fortune--and, what is more, a fortune which you will be well entitled
to share largely in."

"This is beyond our implied treaty," said Clara. "I have yielded more than ever I thought I
should have done, when I agreed that this Earl should be introduced to me on the footing of
a common visitor; and now you talk favourably of his pretensions. This is an encroachment,
Mowbray, and now I shall relapse into my obstinacy, and refuse to see him at all."

"Do as you will," replied Mowbray, sensible that it was only by working on her affections that
he had any chance of carrying a point against her inclination,--"Do as you will, my dear Clara;
but, for Heaven's sake, wipe your eyes."

"And behave myself," said she, trying to smile as she obeyed him,--"behave myself, you would
say, like folks of this world; but the quotation is lost on you, who never read either Prior
or Shakspeare."

"I thank Heaven for that," said Mowbray. "I have enough to burden my brain, without carrying
such a lumber of rhymes in it as you and Lady Pen do.--Come, that is right; go to the mirror,
and make yourself decent."

A woman must be much borne down indeed by pain and suffering, when she loses all respect for
her external appearance. The madwoman in Bedlam wears her garland of straw with a certain air
of pretension; and we have seen a widow whom we knew to be most sincerely affected by a recent
deprivation, whose weeds, nevertheless, were arranged with a dolorous degree of grace, which
amounted almost to coquetry. Clara Mowbray had also, negligent as she seemed to be of appearances,
her own art of the toilet, although of the most rapid and most simple character. She took off
her little riding-hat, and, unbinding a lace of Indian gold which retained her locks, shook
them in dark and glossy profusion over her very handsome form, which they overshadowed down
to her slender waist; and while her brother stood looking on her with a mixture of pride, affection,
and compassion, she arranged them with a large comb, and, without the assistance of any femme
d'atours, wove them, in the course of a few minutes, into such a natural head-dress as we see
on the statues of the Grecian nymphs.

"Now let me but find my best muff," she said, "come prince and peer, I shall be ready to receive
them."

"Pshaw! your muff--who has heard of such a thing these twenty years? Muffs were out of fashion
before you were born."

"No matter, John," replied his sister; "when a woman wears a muff, especially a determined
old maid like myself, it is a sign she has no intentions to scratch; and therefore the muff
serves all the purposes of a white flag, and prevents the necessity of drawing on a glove,
so prudentially recommended by the motto of our cousins, the M'Intoshes."[II-4]

"Be it as you will, then," said Mowbray; "for other than you do will it, you will not suffer
it to be.--But how is this!--another billet?--We are in request this morning."

"Now, Heaven send his lordship may have judiciously considered all the risks which he is sure
to encounter on this charmed ground, and resolved to leave his adventure unattempted," said
Miss Mowbray.

Her brother glanced a look of displeasure at her, as he broke the seal of the letter, which
was addressed to him with the words, "Haste and secrecy," written on the envelope. The contents,
which greatly surprised him, we remit to the commencement of the next chapter.

FOOTNOTE:

[II-4] The well known crest of this ancient race, is a cat rampant with a motto bearing the
caution--"Touch not the cat, but [i.e. be out, or without] the glove."

CHAPTER V.

PRIVATE INFORMATION.

    ----Ope this letter;
    I can produce a champion that will prove
    What is avouched there.----

King Lear.

The billet which Mowbray received, and read in his sister's presence, contained these words:--

    "Sir,--Clara Mowbray has few friends--none, perhaps, excepting
    yourself, in right of blood, and the writer of this letter, by right
    of the fondest, truest, and most disinterested attachment, that ever
    man bore to woman. I am thus explicit with you, because, though it
    is unlikely that I should ever again see or speak to your sister, I
    am desirous that you should be clearly acquainted with the cause of
    that interest, which I must always, even to my dying breath, take in
    her affairs.

    "The person, calling himself Lord Etherington, is, I am aware, in
    the neighbourhood of Shaws-Castle, with the intention of paying his
    addresses to Miss Mowbray; and it is easy for me to foresee, arguing
    according to the ordinary views of mankind, that he may place his
    proposals in such a light as may make them seem highly desirable.
    But ere you give this person the encouragement which his offers may
    seem to deserve, please to enquire whether his fortune is certain,
    or his rank indisputable; and be not satisfied with light evidence
    on either point. A man may be in possession of an estate and title,
    to which he has no better right than his own rapacity and
    forwardness of assumption; and supposing Mr. Mowbray jealous, as he
    must be, of the honour of his family, the alliance of such a one
    cannot but bring disgrace. This comes from one who will make good
    what he has written."

On the first perusal of a billet so extraordinary, Mowbray was inclined to set it down to the
malice of some of the people at the Well, anonymous letters being no uncommon resource of the
small wits who frequent such places of general resort, as a species of deception safely and
easily executed, and well calculated to produce much mischief and confusion. But upon closer
consideration, he was shaken in this opinion, and, starting suddenly from the reverie into
which he had fallen, asked for the messenger who had brought the letter. "He was in the hall,"
the servant thought, and Mowbray ran to the hall. No--the messenger was not there, but Mowbray
might see his back as he walked up the avenue.--He hollo'd--no answer was returned--he ran
after the fellow, whose appearance was that of a countryman. The man quickened his pace as
he saw himself pursued, and when he got out of the avenue, threw himself into one of the numerous
bypaths which wanderers, who strayed in quest of nuts, or for the sake of exercise, had made
in various directions through the extensive copse which surrounded the Castle, and were doubtless
the reason of its acquiring the name of Shaws, which signifies, in the Scottish dialect, a
wood of this description.

Irritated by the man's obvious desire to avoid him, and naturally obstinate in all his resolutions,
Mowbray pursued for a considerable way, until he fairly lost breath; and the flier having been
long out of sight, he recollected at length that his engagement with the Earl of Etherington
required his attendance at the Castle.

The young lord, indeed, had arrived at Shaws-Castle, so few minutes after Mowbray's departure,
that it was wonderful they had not met in the avenue. The servant to whom he applied, conceiving
that his master must return instantly, as he had gone out without his hat, ushered the Earl,
without farther ceremony, into the breakfast-room, where Clara was seated upon one of the window-seats,
so busily employed with a book, or perhaps with her own thoughts while she held a book in her
hands, that she scarce raised her head, until Lord Etherington, advancing, pronounced the words,
"Miss Mowbray." A start, and a loud scream, announced her deadly alarm, and these were repeated
as he made one pace nearer, and in a firmer accent said, "Clara."

"No nearer--no nearer," she exclaimed, "if you would have me look upon you and live!" Lord
Etherington remained standing, as if uncertain whether to advance or retreat, while with incredible
rapidity she poured out her hurried entreaties that he would begone, sometimes addressing him
as a real personage, sometimes, and more frequently, as a delusive phantom, the offspring of
her own excited imagination. "I knew it," she muttered, "I knew what would happen, if my thoughts
were forced into that fearful channel.--Speak to me, brother! speak to me while I have reason
left, and tell me that what stands before me is but an empty shadow! But it is no shadow--it
remains before me in all the lineaments of mortal substance!"

"Clara," said the Earl, with a firm, yet softened voice, "collect and compose yourself. I am,
indeed, no shadow--I am a much-injured man, come to demand rights which have been unjustly
withheld from me. I am now armed with power as well as justice, and my claims shall be heard."

"Never--never!" replied Clara Mowbray; "since extremity is my portion, let extremity give me
courage.--You have no rights--none--I know you not, and I defy you."

"Defy me not, Clara Mowbray," answered the Earl, in a tone, and with a manner how different
from those which delighted society! for now he was solemn, tragic, and almost stern, like the
judge when he passes sentence upon a criminal. "Defy me not," he repeated. "I am your Fate,
and it rests with you to make me a kind or severe one."

"Dare you speak thus?" said Clara, her eyes flashing with anger, while her lips grew white,
and quivered for fear--"Dare you speak thus, and remember that the same heaven is above our
heads, to which you so solemnly vowed you would never see me more without my own consent?"

"That vow was conditional--Francis Tyrrel, as he calls himself, swore the same--hath he not
seen you?" He fixed a piercing look on her; "He has--you dare not disown it!--And shall an
oath, which to him is but a cobweb, be to me a shackle of iron?"

"Alas! it was but for a moment," said Miss Mowbray, sinking in courage, and drooping her head
as she spoke.

"Were it but the twentieth part of an instant--the least conceivable space of subdivided time--still,
you did meet--he saw you--you spoke to him. And me also you must see--me also you must hear!
Or I will first claim you for my own in the face of the world; and, having vindicated my rights,
I will seek out and extinguish the wretched rival who has dared to interfere with them."

"Can you speak thus?" said Clara--"can you so burst through the ties of nature?--Have you a heart!"

"I have; and it shall be moulded like wax to your slightest wishes, if you agree to do me justice;
but not granite, nor aught else that nature has of hardest, will be more inflexible if you
continue an useless opposition!--Clara Mowbray, I am your Fate."

"Not so, proud man," said Clara, rising, "God gave not one potsherd the power to break another,
save by his divine permission--my fate is in the will of Him, without whose will even a sparrow
falls not to the ground.--Begone--I am strong in faith of heavenly protection."

"Do you speak thus in sincerity?" said the Earl of Etherington; "consider first what is the
prospect before you. I stand here in no doubtful or ambiguous character--I offer not the mere
name of a husband--propose to you not a humble lot of obscurity and hardship, with fears for
the past and doubts for the future; yet there was a time when to a suit like this you could
listen favourably.--I stand high among the nobles of the country, and offer you, as my bride,
your share in my honours, and in the wealth which becomes them.--Your brother is my friend,
and favours my suit. I will raise from the ground, and once more render illustrious, your ancient
house--your motions shall be regulated by your wishes, even by your caprices--I will even carry
my self-denial so far, that you shall, should you insist on so severe a measure, have your
own residence, your own establishment, and without intrusion on my part, until the most devoted
love, the most unceasing attentions, shall make way on your inflexible disposition.--All this
I will consent to for the future--all that is past shall be concealed from the public.--But
mine, Clara Mowbray, you must be."

"Never--never!" she said with increasing vehemence. "I can but repeat a negative, but it shall
have all the force of an oath.--Your rank is nothing to me--your fortune I scorn--my brother
has no right, by the law of Scotland, or of nature, to compel my inclinations.--I detest your
treachery, and I scorn the advantage you propose to attain by it.--Should the law give you
my hand, it would but award you that of a corpse."

"Alas! Clara," said the Earl, "you do but flutter in the net; but I will urge you no farther,
now--there is another encounter before me."

He was turning away, when Clara, springing forward, caught him by the arm, and repeated, in
a low and impressive voice, the commandment,--"Thou shalt do no murder!"

"Fear not any violence," he said, softening his voice, and attempting to take her hand, "but
what may flow from your own severity.--Francis is safe from me, unless you are altogether unreasonable.--Allow
me but what you cannot deny to any friend of your brother, the power of seeing you at times--suspend
at least the impetuosity of your dislike to me, and I will, on my part, modify the current
of my just and otherwise uncontrollable resentment."

Clara, extricating herself, and retreating from him, only replied, "There is a Heaven above
us, and THERE shall be judged our actions towards each other! You abuse a power most treacherously
obtained--you break a heart that never did you wrong--you seek an alliance with a wretch who
only wishes to be wedded to her grave.--If my brother brings you hither, I cannot help it--and
if your coming prevents bloody and unnatural violence, it is so far well.--But by my consent
you come not; and, were the choice mine, I would rather be struck with life-long blindness,
than that my eyes should again open on your person--rather that my ears were stuffed with the
earth of the grave, than that they should again hear your voice!"

The Earl of Etherington smiled proudly, and replied, "Even this, madam, I can hear without
resentment. Anxious and careful as you are to deprive your compliance of every grace and of
every kindness, I receive the permission to wait on you, as I interpret your words."

"Do not so interpret them," she replied; "I do but submit to your presence as an unavoidable
evil. Heaven be my witness, that, were it not to prevent greater and more desperate evil, I
would not even so far acquiesce."

"Let acquiescence, then, be the word," he said; "and so thankful will I be, even for your acquiescence,
Miss Mowbray, that all shall remain private, which I conceive you do not wish to be disclosed;
and, unless absolutely compelled to it in self-defence, you may rely, no violence will be resorted
to by me in any quarter.--I relieve you from my presence."

So saying, he withdrew from the apartment.

CHAPTER VI.

EXPLANATORY.

    ----By your leave, gentle wax.

SHAKSPEARE.

In the hall of Shaws-Castle the Earl of Etherington met Mowbray, returned from his fruitless
chase after the bearer of the anonymous epistle before recited; and who had but just learned,
on his return, that the Earl of Etherington was with his sister. There was a degree of mutual
confusion when they met; for Mowbray had the contents of the anonymous letter fresh in his
mind, and Lord Etherington, notwithstanding all the coolness which he had endeavoured to maintain,
had not gone through the scene with Clara without discomposure. Mowbray asked the Earl whether
he had seen his sister, and invited him, at the same time, to return to the parlour; and his
lordship replied, in a tone as indifferent as he could assume, that he had enjoyed the honour
of the lady's company for several minutes, and would not now intrude farther upon Miss Mowbray's
patience.

"You have had such a reception as was agreeable, my lord, I trust?" said Mowbray. "I hope Clara
did the honours of the house with propriety during my absence?"

"Miss Mowbray seemed a little fluttered with my sudden appearance," said the Earl; "the servant
showed me in rather abruptly; and, circumstanced as we were, there is always awkwardness in
a first meeting, where there is no third party to act as master of the ceremonies.--I suspect,
from the lady's looks, that you have not quite kept my secret, my good friend. I myself, too,
felt a little consciousness in approaching Miss Mowbray--but it is over now; and, the ice being
fairly broken, I hope to have other and more convenient opportunities to improve the advantage
I have just gained in acquiring your lovely sister's personal acquaintance."

"So be it," said Mowbray; "but, as you declare for leaving the castle just now, I must first
speak a single word with your lordship, for which this place is not altogether convenient."

"I can have no objections, my dear Jack," said Etherington, following him with a thrill of
conscious feeling, somewhat perhaps like that of the spider when he perceives his deceitful
web is threatened with injury, and sits balanced in the centre, watching every point, and uncertain
which he may be called upon first to defend. Such is one part, and not the slightest part,
of the penance which never fails to wait on those, who, abandoning the "fair play of the world,"
endeavour to work out their purposes by a process of deception and intrigue.

"My lord," said Mowbray, when they had entered a little apartment, in which the latter kept
his guns, fishing-tackle, and other implements of sport, "you have played on the square with
me; nay, more--I am bound to allow you have given me great odds. I am therefore not entitled
to hear any reports to the prejudice of your lordship's character, without instantly communicating
them. There is an anonymous letter which I have just received. Perhaps your lordship may know
the hand, and thus be enabled to detect the writer."

"I do know the hand," said the Earl, as he received the note from Mowbray; "and, allow me to
say, it is the only one which could have dared to frame any calumny to my prejudice. I hope,
Mr. Mowbray, it is impossible for you to consider this infamous charge as any thing but a falsehood?"

"My placing it in your lordship's hands, without farther enquiry, is a sufficient proof that
I hold it such, my lord; at the same time that I cannot doubt for a moment that your lordship
has it in your power to overthrow so frail a calumny by the most satisfactory evidence."

"Unquestionably I can, Mr. Mowbray," said the Earl; "for, besides my being in full possession
of the estate and title of my father, the late Earl of Etherington, I have my father's contract
of marriage, my own certificate of baptism, and the evidence of the whole country, to establish
my right. All these shall be produced with the least delay possible. You will not think it
surprising that one does not travel with this sort of documents in one's post-chaise."

"Certainly not, my lord," said Mowbray; "it is sufficient they are forthcoming when called
for. But, may I enquire, my lord, who the writer of this letter is, and whether he has any
particular spleen to gratify by this very impudent assertion, which is so easily capable of
being disproved?"

"He is," said Etherington, "or, at least, has the reputation of being, I am sorry to say, a
near--a very near relation of my own--in fact, a brother by the father's side, but illegitimate.--My
father was fond of him--I loved him also, for he has uncommonly fine parts, and is accounted
highly accomplished. But there is a strain of something irregular in his mind--a vein, in short,
of madness, which breaks out in the usual manner, rendering the poor young man a dupe to vain
imaginations of his own dignity and grandeur, which is perhaps the most ordinary effect of
insanity, and inspiring the deepest aversion against his nearest relatives, and against myself
in particular. He is a man extremely plausible, both in speech and manners; so much so, that
many of my friends think there is more vice than insanity in the irregularities which he commits;
but I may, I hope, be forgiven, if I have formed a milder judgment of one supposed to be my
father's son. Indeed, I cannot help being sorry for poor Frank, who might have made a very
distinguished figure in the world."

"May I ask the gentleman's name, my lord?" said Mowbray.

"My father's indulgence gave him our family name of Tyrrel, with his own Christian name Francis;
but his proper name, to which alone he has a right, is Martigny."

"Francis Tyrrel!" exclaimed Mowbray; "why, that is the name of the very person who made some
disturbance at the Well just before your lordship arrived.--You may have seen an advertisement--a
sort of placard."

"I have, Mr. Mowbray," said the Earl. "Spare me on that subject, if you please--it has formed
a strong reason why I did not mention my connexion with this unhappy man before; but it is
no unusual thing for persons, whose imaginations are excited, to rush into causeless quarrels,
and then to make discreditable retreats from them."

"Or," said Mr. Mowbray, "he may have, after all, been prevented from reaching the place of
rendezvous--it was that very day on which your lordship, I think, received your wound; and,
if I mistake not, you hit the man from whom you got the hurt."

"Mowbray," said Lord Etherington, lowering his voice, and taking him by the arm, "it is true
that I did so--and truly glad I am to observe, that, whatever might have been the consequences
of such an accident, they cannot have been serious.--It struck me afterwards, that the man
by whom I was so strangely assaulted, had some resemblance to the unfortunate Tyrrel--but I
had not seen him for years.--At any rate, he cannot have been much hurt, since he is now able
to resume his intrigues to the prejudice of my character."

"Your lordship views the thing with a firm eye," said Mowbray; "firmer than I think most people
would be able to command, who had so narrow a chance of a scrape so uncomfortable."

"Why, I am, in the first place, by no means sure that the risk existed," said the Earl of Etherington;
"for, as I have often told you, I had but a very transient glimpse of the ruffian; and, in
the second place, I am sure that no permanent bad consequences have ensued. I am too old a
fox-hunter to be afraid of a leap after it is cleared, as they tell of the fellow who fainted
in the morning at the sight of the precipice he had clambered over when he was drunk on the
night before. The man who wrote that letter," touching it with his finger, "is alive, and able
to threaten me; and if he did come to any hurt from my hand, it was in the act of attempting
my life, of which I shall carry the mark to my grave."

"Nay, I am far from blaming your lordship," said Mowbray, "for what you did in self-defence,
but the circumstance might have turned out very unpleasant.--May I ask what you intend to do
with this unfortunate gentleman, who is in all probability in the neighbourhood?"

"I must first discover the place of his retreat," said Lord Etherington, "and then consider
what is to be done both for his safety, poor fellow, and my own. It is probable, too, that
he may find sharpers to prey upon what fortune he still possesses, which, I assure you, is
sufficient to attract a set of folk, who may ruin while they humour him.--May I beg that you,
too, will be on the outlook, and let me know if you hear or see more of him?"

"I shall, most certainly, my lord," answered Mowbray; "but the only one of his haunts which
I know, is the old Cleikum Inn, where he chose to take up his residence. He has now left it,
but perhaps the old crab-fish of a landlady may know something of him."

"I will not fail to enquire," said Lord Etherington; and, with these words, he took a kind
farewell of Mowbray, mounted his horse, and rode up the avenue.

"A cool fellow," said Mowbray, as he looked after him, "a d--d cool fellow, this brother-in-law
of mine, that is to be--takes a shot at his father's son with as little remorse as at a blackcock--what
would he do with me, were we to quarrel?--Well, I can snuff a candle, and strike out the ace
of hearts; and so, should things go wrong, he has no Jack Raw to deal with, but Jack Mowbray."

Meanwhile the Earl of Etherington hastened home to his own apartments at the Hotel; and, not
entirely pleased with the events of the day, commenced a letter to his correspondent, agent,
and confidant, Captain Jekyl, which we have fortunately the means of presenting to our readers.--

    "Friend Harry,--They say a falling house is best known by the rats
    leaving it--a falling state, by the desertion of confederates and
    allies--and a falling man, by the desertion of his friends. If this
    be true augury; your last letter may be considered as ominous of my
    breaking down. Methinks, you have gone far enough, and shared deep
    enough with me, to have some confidence in my savoir faire--some
    little faith both in my means and management. What crossgrained
    fiend has at once inspired you with what I suppose you wish me to
    call politic doubts and scruples of conscience, but which I can only
    regard as symptoms of fear and disaffection? You can have no idea of
    'duels betwixt relations so nearly connected'--and 'the affair seems
    very delicate and intricate'--and again, 'the matter has never been
    fully explained to you'--and, moreover, 'if you are expected to take
    an active part in the business, it must be when you are honoured
    with my full and unreserved confidence, otherwise how could you be
    of the use to me which I might require?' Such are your expressions.

    "Now, as to scruples of conscience about near relations, and so
    forth, all that has blown by without much mischief, and certainly is
    not likely to occur again--besides, did you never hear of friends
    quarrelling before? And are they not to exercise the usual
    privileges of gentlemen when they do? Moreover, how am I to know
    that this plaguy fellow is actually related to me?--They say it is
    a wise child knows its own father; and I cannot be expected wise
    enough to know to a certainty my father's son.--So much for
    relationship.--Then, as to full and unreserved confidence--why,
    Harry, this is just as if I were to ask you to look at a watch, and
    tell what it was o'clock, and you were to reply, that truly you
    could not inform me, because you had not examined the springs, the
    counter-balances, the wheels, and the whole internal machinery of
    the little timepiece.--But the upshot of the whole is this. Harry
    Jekyl, who is as sharp a fellow as any other, thinks he has his
    friend Lord Etherington at a dead lock, and that he knows already so
    much of the said noble lord's history as to oblige his lordship to
    tell him the whole. And perhaps he not unreasonably concludes, that
    the custody of a whole secret is more creditable, and probably more
    lucrative, than that of a half one; and, in short,--he is resolved
    to make the most of the cards in his hand. Another, mine honest
    Harry, would take the trouble to recall to your mind past times and
    circumstances, and conclude with expressing a humble opinion, that
    if Harry Jekyl were asked now to do any service for the noble lord
    aforesaid, Harry had got his reward in his pocket aforehand. But I
    do not argue thus, because I would rather be leagued with a friend
    who assists me with a view to future profit, than from respect to
    benefits already received. The first lies like the fox's scent when
    on his last legs, increasing every moment; the other is a
    back-scent, growing colder the longer you follow it, until at last
    it becomes impossible to puzzle it out. I will, therefore, submit to
    circumstances, and tell you the whole story, though somewhat
    tedious, in hopes that I can conclude with such a trail as you will
    open upon breast-high.

    "Thus then it was.--Francis, fifth Earl of Etherington, and my
    much-honoured father, was what is called a very eccentric man--that
    is, he was neither a wise man nor a fool--had too much sense to walk
    into a well, and yet in some of the furious fits which he was
    visited with, I have seen him quite mad enough to throw any one
    else into it.--Men said there was a lurking insanity--but it is an
    ill bird, &c., and I will say no more about it. This shatterbrained
    peer was, in other respects, a handsome accomplished man, with an
    expression somewhat haughty, yet singularly pleasing when he chose
    it--a man, in short, who might push his fortune with the fair sex.

    "Lord Etherington, such as I have described him, being upon his
    travels in France, formed an attachment of the heart--ay, and some
    have pretended, of the hand also, with a certain beautiful orphan,
    Marie de Martigny. Of this union is said to have sprung (for I am
    determined not to be certain on that point) that most incommodious
    person, Francis Tyrrel, as he calls himself, but as I would rather
    call him, Francis Martigny; the latter suiting my views, as perhaps
    the former name agrees better with his pretensions. Now, I am too
    good a son to subscribe to the alleged regularity of the marriage
    between my right honourable and very good lord father, because my
    said right honourable and very good lord did, on his return to
    England, become wedded, in the face of the church, to my very
    affectionate and well-endowed mother, Ann Bulmer of Bulmer-hall,
    from which happy union sprung I, Francis Valentine Bulmer Tyrrel,
    lawful inheritor of my father and mother's joint estates, as I was
    the proud possessor of their ancient names. But the noble and
    wealthy pair, though blessed with such a pledge of love as myself,
    lived mighty ill together, and the rather, when my right honourable
    father, sending for this other Sosia, this unlucky Francis Tyrrel,
    senior, from France, insisted, in the face of propriety, that he
    should reside in his house, and share, in all respects, in the
    opportunities of education by which the real Sosia, Francis
    Valentine Bulmer Tyrrel, then commonly called Lord Oakendale, hath
    profited in such an uncommon degree.

    "Various were the matrimonial quarrels which arose between the
    honoured lord and lady, in consequence of this unseemly conjunction
    of the legitimate and illegitimate; and to these, we, the subjects
    of the dispute, were sometimes very properly, as well as decorously,
    made the witnesses. On one occasion, my right honourable mother, who
    was a free-spoken lady, found the language of her own rank quite
    inadequate to express the strength of her generous feelings, and
    borrowing from the vulgar two emphatic words, applied them to Marie
    de Martigny, and her son Francis Tyrrel. Never did Earl that ever
    wore coronet fly into a pitch of more uncontrollable rage, than did
    my right honourable father: and in the ardour of his reply, he
    adopted my mother's phraseology, to inform her, that if there was
    a whore and bastard connected with his house, it was herself and her
    brat.

    "I was even then a sharp little fellow, and was incredibly struck
    with the communication, which, in this hour of ungovernable
    irritation, had escaped my right honourable father. It is true, he
    instantly gathered himself up again; and, he perhaps recollecting
    such a word as bigamy, and my mother, on her side, considering the
    consequences of such a thing as a descent from the Countess of
    Etherington into Mrs. Bulmer, neither wife, maid, nor widow, there
    was an apparent reconciliation between them, which lasted for some
    time. But the speech remained deeply imprinted on my remembrance;
    the more so, that once, when I was exerting over my friend Francis
    Tyrrel, the authority of a legitimate brother, and Lord Oakendale,
    old Cecil, my father's confidential valet, was so much scandalized,
    as to intimate a possibility that we might one day change
    conditions. These two accidental communications seemed to me a key
    to certain long lectures, with which my father used to regale us
    boys, but me in particular, upon the extreme mutability of human
    affairs,--the disappointment of the best-grounded hopes and
    expectations,--and the necessity of being so accomplished in all
    useful branches of knowledge, as might, in case of accidents, supply
    any defalcation in our rank and fortune;--as if any art or science
    could make amends for the loss of an Earldom, and twelve thousand
    a-year! All this prosing seemed to my anxious mind designed to
    prepare me for some unfortunate change; and when I was old enough to
    make such private enquiries as lay in my power, I became still more
    persuaded that my right honourable father nourished some thoughts of
    making an honest woman of Marie de Martigny, and a legitimate elder
    brother of Francis, after his death at least, if not during his
    life. I was the more convinced of this, when a little affair, which
    I chanced to have with the daughter of my Tu----, drew down my
    father's wrath upon me in great abundance, and occasioned my being
    banished to Scotland, along with my brother, under a very poor
    allowance, without introductions, except to one steady, or call it
    rusty, old Professor, and with the charge that I should not assume
    the title of Lord Oakendale, but content myself with my maternal
    grandfather's name of Valentine Bulmer, that of Francis Tyrrel being
    pre-occupied.

    "Upon this occasion, notwithstanding the fear which I entertained of
    my father's passionate temper, I did venture to say, that since I
    was to resign my title, I thought I had a right to keep my family
    name, and that my brother might take his mother's. I wish you had
    seen the look of rage with which my father regarded me when I gave
    him this spirited hint. 'Thou art,' he said, and paused, as if to
    find out the bitterest epithet to supply the blank--'thou art thy
    mother's child, and her perfect picture'--(this seemed the severest
    reproach that occurred to him.)--'Bear her name then, and bear it
    with patience and in secrecy; or, I here give you my word, you shall
    never bear another the whole days of your life.' This sealed my
    mouth with a witness; and then, in allusion to my flirtation with
    the daughter of my Tu---- aforesaid, he enlarged on the folly and
    iniquity of private marriages, warned me that in the country I was
    going to, the matrimonial noose often lies hid under flowers, and
    that folks find it twitched round their neck when they least expect
    such a cravat; assured me, that he had very particular views for
    settling Francis and me in life, and that he would forgive neither
    of us who should, by any such rash entanglements, render them
    unavailing.

    "This last minatory admonition was the more tolerable, that my rival
    had his share of it; and so we were bundled off to Scotland, coupled
    up like two pointers in a dog-cart, and--I can speak for one at
    least--with much the same uncordial feelings towards each other. I
    often, indeed, detected Francis looking at me with a singular
    expression, as of pity and anxiety, and once or twice he seemed
    disposed to enter on something respecting the situation in which we
    stood towards each other; but I felt no desire to encourage his
    confidence. Meantime, as we were called, by our father's directions,
    not brothers, but cousins, so we came to bear towards each other the
    habits of companionship, though scarcely of friendship. What Francis
    thought, I know not; for my part, I must confess, that I lay by on
    the watch for some opportunity when I might mend my own situation
    with my father, though at the prejudice of my rival. And Fortune,
    while she seemed to prevent such an opportunity, involved us both in
    one of the strangest and most entangled mazes that her capricious
    divinityship ever wove, and out of which I am even now struggling,
    by sleight or force, to extricate myself. I can hardly help
    wondering, even yet, at the odd conjunction, which has produced such
    an intricacy of complicated incidents.

    "My father was a great sportsman, and Francis and I had both
    inherited his taste for field-sports; but I in a keener and more
    ecstatic degree. Edinburgh, which is a tolerable residence in winter
    and spring, becomes disagreeable in summer, and in autumn is the
    most melancholy sejour that ever poor mortals were condemned to.
    No public places are open, no inhabitant of any consideration
    remains in the town; those who cannot get away, hide themselves in
    obscure corners, as if ashamed to be seen in the streets. The gentry
    go to their country-houses--the citizens to their sea-bathing
    quarters--the lawyers to their circuits--the writers to visit their
    country clients--and all the world to the moors to shoot grouse. We,
    who felt the indignity of remaining in town during this deserted
    season, obtained, with some difficulty, permission from the Earl to
    betake ourselves to any obscure corner, and shoot grouse, if we
    could get leave to do so on our general character of English
    students at the University of Edinburgh, without quoting any thing
    more.

    "The first year of our banishment we went to the neighbourhood of
    the Highlands; but finding our sport interrupted by gamekeepers and
    their gillies, on the second occasion we established ourselves at
    this little village of St. Ronan's, where there were then no Spa, no
    fine people, no card tables, no quizzes, excepting the old quiz of a
    landlady with whom we lodged. We found the place much to our mind;
    the old landlady had interest with some old fellow, agent of a
    non-residing nobleman, who gave us permission to sport over his
    moors, of which I availed myself keenly, and Francis with more
    moderation. He was, indeed, of a grave musing sort of habit, and
    often preferred solitary walks, in the wild and beautiful scenery
    with which the village is surrounded, to the use of the gun. He was
    attached to fishing, moreover, that dullest of human amusements, and
    this also tended to keep us considerably apart. This gave me rather
    pleasure than concern;--not that I hated Francis at that time; nay,
    not that I greatly disliked his society; but merely because it was
    unpleasant to be always with one, whose fortunes I looked upon as
    standing in direct opposition to my own. I also rather despised the
    indifference about sport, which indeed seemed to grow upon him; but
    my gentleman had better taste than I was aware of. If he sought no
    grouse on the hill, he had flushed a pheasant in the wood.

    "Clara Mowbray, daughter of the Lord of the more picturesque than
    wealthy domain of St. Ronan's, was at that time scarce sixteen years
    old, and as wild and beautiful a woodland nymph as the imagination
    can fancy--simple as a child in all that concerned the world and its
    ways, acute as a needle in every point of knowledge which she had
    found an opportunity of becoming acquainted with; fearing harm from
    no one, and with, a lively and natural strain of wit, which brought
    amusement and gaiety wherever she came. Her motions were under no
    restraint, save that of her own inclination; for her father, though
    a cross, peevish, old man, was confined to his chair with the gout,
    and her only companion, a girl of somewhat inferior caste, bred up
    in the utmost deference to Miss Mowbray's fancies, served for
    company indeed in her strolls through the wild country on foot and
    on horseback, but never thought of interfering with her will and
    pleasure.

    "The extreme loneliness of the country, (at that time,) and the
    simplicity of its inhabitants, seemed to render these excursions
    perfectly safe. Francis, happy dog, became the companion of the
    damsels on such occasions through the following accident. Miss
    Mowbray had dressed herself and her companion like country wenches,
    with a view to surprise the family of one of their better sort of
    farmers. They had accomplished their purpose greatly to their
    satisfaction, and were hying home after sunset, when they were
    encountered by a country fellow--a sort of Harry Jekyl in his
    way--who, being equipped with a glass or two of whisky, saw not the
    nobility of blood through her disguise, and accosted the daughter of
    a hundred sires as he would have done a ewe-milker. Miss Mowbray
    remonstrated--her companion screamed--up came cousin Francis with a
    fowlingpiece on his shoulder, and soon put the sylvan to flight.

    "This was the beginning of an acquaintance, which had gone great
    lengths before I found it out. The fair Clara, it seems, found it
    safer to roam in the woods with an escort than alone, and my
    studious and sentimental relative was almost her constant companion.
    At their age, it was likely that some time might pass ere they came
    to understand each other; but full confidence and intimacy was
    established between them ere I heard of their amour.

    "And here, Harry, I must pause till next morning, and send you the
    conclusion under a separate cover. The rap which I had over the
    elbow the other day, is still tingling at the end of my fingers, and
    you must not be critical with my manuscript."

CHAPTER VII.

LETTER CONTINUED.

    --------Must I then ravel out
    My weaved-up follies?--------

SHAKSPEARE.

    "I resume my pen, Harry, to mention, without attempting to describe
    my surprise, that Francis, compelled by circumstances, made me the
    confidant of his love-intrigue. My grave cousin in love, and very
    much in the mind of approaching the perilous verge of clandestine
    marriage--he who used every now and then, not much to the
    improvement of our cordial regard, to lecture me upon filial duty,
    just upon the point of slipping the bridle himself! I could not for
    my life tell whether surprise, or a feeling of mischievous
    satisfaction, was predominant. I tried to talk to him as he used to
    talk to me; but I had not the gift of persuasion, or he the power of
    understanding the words of wisdom. He insisted our situation was
    different--that his unhappy birth, as he termed it, freed him at
    least from dependence on his father's absolute will--that he had, by
    bequest from some relative of his mother, a moderate competence,
    which Miss Mowbray had consented to share with him; in fine, that he
    desired not my counsel but my assistance. A moment's consideration
    convinced me, that I should be unkind, not to him only, but to
    myself, unless I gave him all the backing I could in this his most
    dutiful scheme. I recollected our right honourable father's
    denunciations against Scottish marriages, and secret marriages of
    all sorts,--denunciations perhaps not the less vehement, that he
    might feel some secret prick of conscience on the subject himself. I
    remembered that my grave brother had always been a favourite, and I
    forgot not--how was it possible I could forget--those ominous
    expressions, which intimated a possibility of the hereditary estate
    and honours being transferred to the elder, instead of the younger
    son. Now, it required no conjurer to foresee, that should Francis
    commit this inexpiable crime of secretly allying himself with a
    Scottish beauty, our sire would lose all wish to accomplish such a
    transference in his favour; and while my brother's merits were
    altogether obscured by such an unpardonable act of disobedience, my
    own, no longer overshadowed by prejudice or partiality, would shine
    forth in all their natural brilliancy. These considerations, which
    flashed on me with the rapidity of lightning, induced me to consent
    to hold Frank's back-hand, during the perilous game he proposed to
    play. I had only to take care that my own share in the matter should
    not be so prominent as to attract my father's attention; and this I
    was little afraid of, for his wrath was usually of that vehement and
    forcible character, which, like lightning, is attracted to one
    single point, there bursting with violence as undivided as it was
    uncontrollable.

    "I soon found the lovers needed my assistance more than I could have
    supposed; for they were absolute novices in any sort of intrigue,
    which to me seemed as easy and natural as lying. Francis had been
    detected by some tattling spy in his walks with Clara, and the news
    had been carried to old Mowbray, who was greatly incensed at his
    daughter, though little knowing that her crime was greater than
    admitting an unknown English student to form a personal acquaintance
    with her. He prohibited farther intercourse--resolved, in
    justice-of-peace phrase, to rid the country of us; and, prudently
    sinking all mention of his daughter's delinquency, commenced an
    action against Francis, under pretext of punishing him as an
    encroacher upon his game, but in reality to scare him from the
    neighbourhood. His person was particularly described to all the
    keepers and satellites about Shaws-Castle, and any personal
    intercourse betwixt him and Clara became impossible, except under
    the most desperate risks. Nay, such was their alarm, that Master
    Francis thought it prudent, for Miss Mowbray's sake, to withdraw as
    far as a town called Marchthorn, and there to conceal himself,
    maintaining his intercourse with Clara only by letter.

    "It was then I became the sheet-anchor of the hope of the lovers; it
    was then my early dexterity and powers of contrivance were first put
    to the test; and it would be too long to tell you in how many
    shapes, and by how many contrivances, I acted as agent,
    letter-carrier, and go-between, to maintain the intercourse of these
    separated turtles. I have had a good deal of trouble in that way on
    my own account, but never half so much as I took on account of this
    brace of lovers. I scaled walls and swam rivers, set bloodhounds,
    quarterstaves, and blunderbusses at defiance; and, excepting the
    distant prospect of self-interest which I have hinted at, I was
    neither to have honour nor reward for my pains. I will own to you,
    that Clara Mowbray was so very beautiful--so absolutely confiding in
    her lover's friend--and thrown into such close intercourse with me,
    that there were times when I thought that, in conscience, she ought
    not to have scrupled to have contributed a mite to reward the
    faithful labourer. But then, she looked like purity itself; and I
    was such a novice at that time of day, that I did not know how it
    might have been possible for me to retreat, if I had made too bold
    an advance--and, in short, I thought it best to content myself with
    assisting true love to run smooth, in the hope that its course
    would assure me, in the long-run, an Earl's title, and an Earl's
    fortune.

    "Nothing was, therefore, ventured on my part which could raise
    suspicion, and, as the confidential friend of the lovers, I prepared
    every thing for their secret marriage. The pastor of the parish
    agreed to perform the ceremony, prevailed upon by an argument which
    I used to him, and which Clara, had she guessed it, would have
    little thanked me for. I led the honest man to believe, that, in
    declining to do his office, he might prevent a too successful lover
    from doing justice to a betrayed maiden; and the parson, who, I
    found, had a spice of romance in his disposition, resolved, under
    such pressing circumstances, to do them the kind office of binding
    them together, although the consequence might be a charge of
    irregularity against himself. Old Mowbray was much confined to his
    room, his daughter less watched since Frank had removed from the
    neighbourhood--the brother (which, by the by, I should have said
    before) not then in the country--and it was settled that the lovers
    should meet at the Old Kirk of Saint Ronan's when the twilight
    became deep, and go off in a chaise for England so soon as the
    ceremony was performed.

    "When all this was arranged save the actual appointment of the day,
    you cannot conceive the happiness and the gratitude of my sage
    brother. He looked upon himself as approaching to the seventh
    heaven, instead of losing his chance of a good fortune, and
    encumbering himself at nineteen with a wife, and all the
    probabilities of narrow circumstances, and an increasing family.
    Though so much younger myself, I could not help wondering at his
    extreme want of knowledge of the world, and feeling ashamed that I
    had ever allowed him to take the airs of a tutor with me; and this
    conscious superiority supported me against the thrill of jealousy
    which always seized me when I thought of his carrying off the
    beautiful prize, which, without my address, he could never have
    made his own.--But at this important crisis, I had a letter from my
    father, which, by some accident, had long lain at our lodgings in
    Edinburgh; and then visited our former quarters in the Highlands;
    again returned to Edinburgh, and at length reached me at Marchthorn
    in a most critical time.

    "It was in reply to a letter of mine, in which, among other matters,
    such as good boys send to their papas, descriptions of the country,
    accounts of studies, exercises, and so forth, I had, to fill up the
    sheet to a dutiful length, thrown in something about the family of
    St. Ronan's, in the neighbourhood of which I was writing. I had no
    idea what an effect the name would produce on the mind of my right
    honourable father, but his letter sufficiently expressed it. He
    charged me to cultivate the acquaintance of Mr. Mowbray as fast and
    as intimately as possible; and, if need were, to inform him candidly
    of our real character and situation in life. Wisely considering, at
    the same time, that his filial admonition might be neglected if not
    backed by some sufficient motive, his lordship frankly let me into
    the secret of my granduncle by the mother's side, Mr. S. Mowbray of
    Nettlewood's last will and testament, by which I saw, to my
    astonishment and alarm, that a large and fair estate was bequeathed
    to the eldest son and heir of the Earl of Etherington, on condition
    of his forming a matrimonial alliance with a lady of the house of
    Mowbray, of St. Ronan's.--Mercy of Heaven! how I stared! Here had I
    been making every preparation for wedding Francis to the very girl,
    whose hand would insure to myself wealth and independence!--And even
    the first loss, though great, was not likely to be the last. My
    father spoke of the marriage like a land-surveyor, but of the estate
    of Nettlewood like an impassioned lover. He seemed to dote on every
    acre of it, and dwelt on its contiguity to his own domains as a
    circumstance which rendered the union of the estates not desirable
    merely, but constituted an arrangement, pointed out by the hand of
    nature. And although he observed, that, on account of the youth of
    the parties, treaty of marriage could not be immediately undertaken,
    it was yet clear he would approve at heart of any bold stroke which
    would abolish the interval of time that might otherwise intervene,
    ere Oakendale and Nettlewood became one property.

    "Here, then, were shipwrecked my fair hopes. It was clear as
    sunshine, that a private marriage, unpardonable in the abstract,
    would become venial, nay, highly laudable, in my father's eyes, if
    it united his heir with Clara Mowbray; and if he really had, as my
    fears suggested, the means of establishing legitimacy on my
    brother's part, nothing was so likely to tempt him to use them, as
    the certainty that, by his doing so, Nettlewood and Oakendale would
    be united into one. The very catastrophe which I had prepared, as
    sure to exclude my rival from his father's favour, was thus likely,
    unless it could be prevented, to become a strong motive and argument
    for the Earl placing his rights above mine.

    "I shut myself up in my bedroom; locked the door; read, and again
    read my father's letter; and, instead of giving way to idle passion,
    (beware of that, Harry, even in the most desperate circumstances,) I
    considered, with keen investigation, whether some remedy could not
    yet be found.--To break off the match for the time, would have been
    easy--a little private information to Mr. Mowbray would have done
    that with a vengeance--But then the treaty might be renewed under my
    father's auspices;--at all events, the share which I had taken in
    the intrigue between Clara and my brother, rendered it almost
    impossible for me to become a suitor in my own person.--Amid these
    perplexities, it suddenly occurred to my adventurous heart and
    contriving brain--what if I should personate the bridegroom?--This
    strange thought, you will recollect, occurred to a very youthful
    brain--it was banished--it returned--returned again and again--was
    viewed under every different shape--became familiar--was
    adopted.--It was easy to fix the appointment with Clara and the
    clergyman for I managed the whole correspondence--the resemblance
    between Francis and me in stature and in proportion--the disguise
    which we were to assume--the darkness of the church--the hurry of
    the moment--might, I trusted, prevent Clara from recognising me. To
    the minister I had only to say, that though I had hitherto talked of
    a friend, I myself was the happy man. My first name was Francis as
    well as his; and I had found Clara so gentle, so confiding, so
    flatteringly cordial in her intercourse with me, that, once within
    my power, and prevented from receding by shame, and a thousand
    contradictory feelings, I had, with the vanity of an amoureux de
    seize ans, the confidence to believe I could reconcile the fair
    lady to the exchange.

    "There certainly never came such a thought into a madcap's brain;
    and, what is more extraordinary--but that you already know--it was
    so far successful, that the marriage ceremony was performed between
    us in the presence of a servant of mine, Clara's accommodating
    companion, and the priest.--We got into the carriage, and were a
    mile from the church, when my unlucky or lucky brother stopped the
    chaise by force--through what means he had obtained knowledge of my
    little trick, I never have been able to learn. Solmes has been
    faithful to me in too many instances, that I should suspect him in
    this important crisis. I jumped out of the carriage, pitched
    fraternity to the devil, and, betwixt desperation and something very
    like shame, began to cut away with a couteau de chasse, which I had
    provided in case of necessity.--All was in vain--I was hustled down
    under the wheel of the carriage, and, the horses taking fright, it
    went over my body.

    "Here ends my narrative; for I neither heard not saw more until I
    found myself stretched on a sick-bed many miles from the scene of
    action, and Solmes engaged in attending on me. In answer to my
    passionate enquiries, he briefly informed me, that Master Francis
    had sent back the young lady to her own dwelling, and that she
    appeared to be extremely ill in consequence of the alarm she had
    sustained. My own health, he assured me, was considered as very
    precarious, and added, that Tyrrel, who was in the same house, was
    in the utmost perturbation on my account. The very mention of his
    name brought on a crisis in which I brought up much blood; and it is
    singular that the physician who attended me--a grave gentleman, with
    a wig--considered that this was of service to me. I know it
    frightened me heartily, and prepared me for a visit from Master
    Frank, which I endured with a tameness he would not have
    experienced, had the usual current of blood flowed in my veins. But
    sickness and the lancet make one very tolerant of sermonizing.--At
    last, in consideration of being relieved from his accursed presence,
    and the sound of his infernally calm voice, I slowly and reluctantly
    acquiesced in an arrangement, by which he proposed that we should
    for ever bid adieu to each other, and to Clara Mowbray. I would have
    hesitated at this last stipulation. 'She was,' I said, 'my wife, and
    I was entitled to claim her as such.'

    "This drew down a shower of most moral reproaches, and an assurance
    that Clara disowned and detested my alliance; and that where there
    had been an essential error in the person, the mere ceremony could
    never be accounted binding by the law of any Christian country. I
    wonder this had not occurred to me; but my ideas of marriage were
    much founded on plays and novels, where such devices as I had
    practised are often resorted to for winding up the plot, without any
    hint of their illegality; besides, I had confided, as I mentioned
    before, a little too rashly perhaps, in my own powers of persuading
    so young a bride as Clara to be contented with one handsome fellow
    instead of another.

    "Solmes took up the argument, when Francis released me by leaving
    the room. He spoke of my father's resentment, should this enterprise
    reach his ears--of the revenge of Mowbray of St. Ronan's, whose
    nature was both haughty and rugged--of risk from the laws of the
    country, and God knows what bugbears besides, which, at a more
    advanced age, I would have laughed at. In a word, I sealed the
    capitulation, vowed perpetual absence, and banished myself, as they
    say in this country, forth of Scotland.

    "And here, Harry, observe and respect my genius. Every circumstance
    was against me in this negotiation. I had been the aggressor in the
    war; I was wounded, and, it might be said, a prisoner in my
    antagonist's hands; yet I could so far avail myself of Monsieur
    Martigny's greater eagerness for peace, that I clogged the treaty
    with a condition highly advantageous to myself, and equally
    unfavourable to him.--Said Mr. Francis Martigny was to take upon
    himself the burden of my right honourable father's displeasure; and
    our separation, which was certain to give immense offence, was to be
    represented as his work, not as mine. I insisted, tender-hearted,
    dutiful soul, as I was, that I would consent to no measure which was
    to bring down papa's displeasure. This was a sine qua non in our
    negotiation.

        'Voila ce que c'est d'avoir des talens!'

    "Monsieur Francis would, I suppose, have taken the world on his
    shoulders, to have placed an eternal separation betwixt his
    turtledove and the falcon who had made so bold a pounce at
    her.--What he wrote to my father, I know not; as for myself, in all
    duty, I represented the bad state of my health from an accident, and
    that my brother and companion having been suddenly called from me
    by some cause which he had not explained, I had thought it necessary
    to get to London for the best advice, and only waited his lordship's
    permission to return to the paternal mansion. This I soon received,
    and found, as I expected, that he was in towering wrath against my
    brother for his disobedience; and, after some time, I even had
    reason to think, (as how could it be otherwise, Harry?) that, on
    becoming better acquainted with the merits and amiable manners of
    his apparent heir, he lost any desire which he might formerly have
    entertained, of accomplishing any change in my circumstances in
    relation to the world. Perhaps the old peer turned a little ashamed
    of his own conduct, and dared not aver to the congregation of the
    righteous, (for he became saintly in his latter days,) the very
    pretty frolics which he seems to have been guilty of in his youth.
    Perhaps, also, the death of my right honourable mother operated in
    my favour, since, while she lived, my chance was the worse--there is
    no saying what a man will do to spite his wife.--Enough, he
    died--slept with his right honourable fathers, and I became, without
    opposition, Right Honourable in his stead.

    "How I have borne my new honours, thou, Harry, and our merry set,
    know full well. Newmarket and Tattersal's may tell the rest. I think
    I have been as lucky as most men where luck is most prized, and so I
    shall say no more on that subject.

    "And now, Harry, I will suppose thee in a moralizing mood; that is,
    I will fancy the dice have run wrong--or your double-barrel has hung
    fire--or a certain lady has looked cross--or any such weighty cause
    of gravity has occurred, and you give me the benefit of your
    seriousness.--'My dear Etherington,' say you pithily, 'you are a
    precious fool!--Here you are, stirring up a business rather
    scandalous in itself, and fraught with mischief to all concerned--a
    business which might sleep for ever, if you let it alone, but which
    is sure, like a sea-coal fire, to burst into a flame if you go on
    poking it. I would like to ask your lordship only two
    questions,'--say you, with your usual graceful attitude of adjusting
    your perpendicular shirt-collar, and passing your hand over the knot
    of your cravat, which deserves a peculiar place in the
    Tietania[II-A][II-5]--'only two questions--that is, Whether you do
    not repent the past, and whether you do not fear the future?' Very
    comprehensive queries, these of yours, Harry; for they respect both
    the time past and the time to come--one's whole life, in short.
    However, I shall endeavour to answer them as well as I may.

    "Repent the past, said you?--Yes, Harry, I think I do repent the
    past--that is, not quite in the parson's style of repentance, which
    resembles yours when you have a headache, but as I would repent a
    hand at cards which I had played on false principles. I should have
    begun with the young lady--availed myself in a very different manner
    of Monsieur Martigny's absence, and my own intimacy with her, and
    thus superseded him, if possible, in the damsel's affections. The
    scheme I adopted, though there was, I think, both boldness and
    dexterity in it, was that of a novice of premature genius, who could
    not calculate chances. So much for repentance.--Do I not fear the
    future?--Harry, I will not cut your throat for supposing you to have
    put the question, but calmly assure you, that I never feared any
    thing in my life. I was born without the sensation, I believe; at
    least, it is perfectly unknown to me. When I felt that cursed wheel
    pass across my breast, when I felt the pistol-ball benumb my arm, I
    felt no more agitation than at the bounce of a champagne-cork. But I
    would not have you think that I am fool enough to risk plague,
    trouble, and danger, all of which, besides considerable expense, I
    am now prepared to encounter, without some adequate motive,--and
    here it is.

    "From various quarters, hints, rumours, and surmises have reached
    me, that an attack will be made on my rank and status in society,
    which can only be in behalf of this fellow Martigny, (for I will not
    call him by his stolen name of Tyrrel.) Now, this I hold to be a
    breach of the paction betwixt us, by which--that is, by that which I
    am determined to esteem its true meaning and purport--he was to
    leave my right honourable father and me to settle our own matters
    without his interference, which amounted to a virtual resignation of
    his rights, if the scoundrel ever had any. Can he expect I am to
    resign my wife, and what is a better thing, old Scrogie Mowbray's
    estate of Nettlewood, to gratify the humour of a fellow who sets up
    claims to my title and whole property? No, by ----! If he assails me
    in a point so important, I will retaliate upon him in one where he
    will feel as keenly; and that he may depend upon.--And now,
    methinks, you come upon me with a second edition of your grave
    remonstrances, about family feuds, unnatural rencontres, offence to
    all the feelings of all the world, et cetera, et cetera, which you
    might usher in most delectably with the old stave about brethren
    dwelling together in unity. I will not stop to enquire, whether all
    these delicate apprehensions are on account of the Earl of
    Etherington, his safety, and his reputation; or whether my friend
    Harry Jekyl be not considering how far his own interference with
    such a naughty business will be well taken at Head-quarters; and so,
    without pausing on that question, I shall barely and briefly say,
    that you cannot be more sensible than I am of the madness of
    bringing matters to such an extremity--I have no such intention, I
    assure you, and it is with no such purpose that I invite you
    here.--Were I to challenge Martigny, he would refuse me the
    meeting; and all less ceremonious ways of arranging such an affair
    are quite old-fashioned.

    "It is true, at our first meeting, I was betrayed into the scrape I
    told you of--just as you may have shot (or shot at, for I think
    you are no downright hitter) a hen-pheasant, when flushed within
    distance, by a sort of instinctive movement, without reflecting on
    the enormity you are about to commit. The truth is, there is an
    ignis fatuus influence, which seems to govern our house--it poured
    its wildfire through my father's veins--it has descended to me in
    full vigour, and every now and then its impulse is irresistible.
    There was my enemy, and here were my pistols, was all I had time to
    think about the matter. But I will be on my guard in future, the
    more surety, as I cannot receive any provocation from him; on the
    contrary, if I must confess the truth, though I was willing to gloss
    it a little in my first account of the matter, (like the Gazette,
    when recording a defeat,) I am certain he would never voluntarily
    have fired at me, and that his pistol went off as he fell. You know
    me well enough to be assured, that I will never be again in the
    scrape of attacking an unresisting antagonist, were he ten times my
    brother.

    "Then, as to this long tirade about hating my brother--Harry, I do
    not hate him more than the first-born of Egypt are in general hated
    by those whom they exclude from entailed estates, and so forth--not
    one lauded man in twenty of us that is not hated by his younger
    brothers, to the extent of wishing him quiet in his grave, as an
    abominable stumbling-block in their path of life; and so far only do
    I hate Monsieur Martigny. But for the rest, I rather like him as
    otherwise; and would he but die, would give my frank consent to his
    being canonized: and while he lives, I am not desirous that he
    should be exposed to any temptation from rank and riches, those
    main obstacles to the self-denying course of life, by which the
    odour of sanctity is attained.

    "Here again you break in with your impertinent queries--If I have no
    purpose of quarrelling personally with Martigny, why do I come into
    collision with him at all?--why not abide by the treaty of
    Marchthorn, and remain in England, without again approaching Saint
    Ronan's, or claiming my maiden bride?

    "Have I not told you, I want him to cease all threatened attempts
    upon my fortune and dignity? Have I not told you, that I want to
    claim my wife, Clara Mowbray, and my estate of Nettlewood, fairly
    won by marrying her?--And, to let you into the whole secret, though
    Clara is a very pretty woman, yet she goes for so little in the
    transaction with me, her animpassioned bridegroom, that I hope to
    make some relaxation of my rights over her the means of obtaining
    the concessions which I think most important.

    "I will not deny, that an aversion to awakening bustle, and
    encountering reproach, has made me so slow in looking after my
    interest, that the period will shortly expire, within which I ought,
    by old Scrog Mowbray's will, to qualify myself for becoming his
    heir, by being the accepted husband of Miss Mowbray of St. Ronan's.
    Time was--time is--and, if I catch it not by the forelock as it
    passes, time will be no more--Nettlewood will be forfeited--and if I
    have in addition a lawsuit for my title, and for Oakendale, I run a
    risk of being altogether capotted. I must, therefore, act at all
    risks, and act with vigour--and this is the general plan of my
    campaign, subject always to be altered according to circumstances. I
    have obtained--I may say purchased--Mowbray's consent to address his
    sister. I have this advantage, that if she agrees to take me, she
    will for ever put a stop to all disagreeable reports and
    recollections, founded on her former conduct. In that case I secure
    the Nettlewood property, and am ready to wage war for my paternal
    estate. Indeed, I firmly believe, that should this happy
    consummation take place, Monsieur Martigny will be too much
    heart-broken to make further fight, but will e'en throw helve after
    hatchet, and run to hide himself, after the fashion of a true lover,
    in some desert beyond seas.

    "But supposing the lady has the bad taste to be obstinate, and will
    none of me, I still think that her happiness, or her peace of mind,
    will be as dear to Martigny, as Gibraltar is to the Spaniards, and
    that he will sacrifice a great deal to induce me to give up my
    pretensions. Now, I shall want some one to act as my agent in
    communicating with this fellow; for I will not deny that my old
    appetite for cutting his throat may awaken suddenly, were I to hold
    personal intercourse with him. Come thou, therefore, without delay,
    and hold my back-hand--Come, for you know me, and that I never left
    a kindness unrewarded. To be specific, you shall have means to pay
    off a certain inconvenient mortgage, without troubling the tribe of
    Issachar, if you will be but true to me in this matter--Come,
    therefore, without further apologies or further delay. There shall,
    I give you my word, neither be risk or offence in the part of the
    drama which I intend to commit to your charge.

    "Talking of the drama, we had a miserable attempt at a sort of
    bastard theatricals, at Mowbray's rat-gnawed mansion. There were two
    things worth noticing--One, that I lost all the courage on which I
    pique myself, and fairly fled from the pit, rather than present
    myself before Miss Clara Mowbray, when it came to the push. And upon
    this I pray you to remark, that I am a person of singular delicacy
    and modesty, instead of being the Drawcansir and Daredevil that you
    would make of me. The other memorabile is of a more delicate nature,
    respecting the conduct of a certain fair lady, who seemed determined
    to fling herself at my head. There is a wonderful degree of
    freemasonry among us folk of spirit; and it is astonishing how soon
    we can place ourselves on a footing with neglected wives and
    discontented daughters. If you come not soon, one of the rewards
    held out to you in my former letter, will certainly not be
    forthcoming. No schoolboy keeps gingerbread, for his comrade,
    without feeling a desire to nibble at it; so, if you appear not to
    look after your own interest, say you had fair warning. For my own
    part, I am rather embarrassed than gratified by the prospect of such
    an affair, when I have on the tapis another of a different nature.
    This enigma I will explain at meeting.

    "Thus finishes my long communication. If my motives of action do not
    appear explicit, think in what a maze fortune has involved me, and
    how much must necessarily depend on the chapter of accidents.

    "Yesterday I may be said to have opened my siege, for I presented
    myself before Clara. I had no very flattering reception--that was of
    little consequence, for I did not expect one. By alarming her fears,
    I made an impression thus far, that she acquiesces in my appearing
    before her as her brother's guest, and this is no small point
    gained. She will become accustomed to look on me, and will remember
    with less bitterness the trick which I played her formerly; while I,
    on the other hand, by a similar force of habit, will get over
    certain awkward feelings with which I have been compunctiously
    visited whenever I look upon her.--Adieu! Health and brotherhood.

    "Thine,
        "ETHERINGTON."

CHAPTER VIII.

THE REPLY.

    Thou bear'st a precious burden, gentle post,
    Nitre and sulphur--See that it explode not!

Old Play.

    "I have received your two long letters, my dear Etherington, with
    equal surprise and interest; for what I knew of your Scottish
    adventures before, was by no means sufficient to prepare me for a
    statement so perversely complicated. The Ignis Fatuus which, you
    say, governed your father, seems to have ruled the fortunes of your
    whole house, there is so much eccentricity in all that you have told
    me. But n'importe, Etherington, you were my friend--you held me up
    when I was completely broken down; and, whatever you may think, my
    services are at your command much more from reflections on the past,
    than hopes for the future. I am no speechmaker, but this you may
    rely on while I continue to be Harry Jekyl. You have deserved some
    love at my hands, Etherington, and you have it.

    "Perhaps I love you the better since your perplexities have become
    known to me; for, my dear Etherington, you were before too much an
    object of envy to be entirely an object of affection. What a happy
    fellow! was the song of all who named you. Bank, and a fortune to
    maintain it--luck sufficient to repair all the waste that you could
    make in your income, and skill to back that luck, or supply it
    should it for a moment fail you.--The cards turning up as if to
    your wish--the dice rolling, it almost seemed, at your wink--it was
    rather your look than the touch of your cue that sent the ball into
    the pocket. You seemed to have fortune in chains, and a man of less
    honour would have been almost suspected of helping his luck by a
    little art.--You won every bet; and the instant that you were
    interested, one might have named the winning horse--it was always
    that which you were to gain most by.--You never held out your piece
    but the game went down--and then the women!--with face, manners,
    person, and, above all, your tongue--what wild work have you made
    among them!--Good heaven! and have you had the old sword hanging
    over your head by a horsehair all this while?--Has your rank been
    doubtful?--Your fortune unsettled?--And your luck, so constant in
    every thing else, has that, as well as your predominant influence
    with the women, failed you, when you wished to form a connexion for
    life, and when the care of your fortune required you to do
    so?--Etherington, I am astonished!--The Mowbray scrape I always
    thought an inconvenient one, as well as the quarrel with this same
    Tyrrel, or Martigny; but I was far from guessing the complicated
    nature of your perplexities.

    "But I must not run on in a manner which, though it relieves my own
    marvelling mind, cannot be very pleasant to you. Enough, I look on
    my obligations to you as more light to be borne, now I have some
    chance of repaying them to a certain extent; but, even were the full
    debt paid, I would remain as much attached to you as ever. It is
    your friend who speaks, Etherington; and, if he offers his advice in
    somewhat plain language, do not, I entreat you, suppose that your
    confidence has encouraged an offensive familiarity, but consider me
    as one who, in a weighty matter, writes plainly, to avoid the least
    chance of misconstruction.

    "Etherington, your conduct hitherto has resembled anything rather
    than the coolness and judgment which are so peculiarly your own
    when you choose to display them. I pass over the masquerade of your
    marriage--it was a boy's trick, which could hardly have availed you
    much, even if successful; for what sort of a wife would you have
    acquired, had this same Clara Mowbray proved willing to have
    accepted the change which you had put upon her, and transferred
    herself, without repugnance, from one bridegroom to another?--Poor
    as I am, I know that neither Nettlewood nor Oakendale should have
    bribed me to marry such a ---- I cannot decorously fill up the
    blank.

    "Neither, my dear Etherington, can I forgive you the trick you put
    on the clergyman, in whose eyes you destroyed the poor girl's
    character to induce him to consent to perform the ceremony, and have
    thereby perhaps fixed an indelible stain on her for life--this was
    not a fair ruse de guerre.--As it is, you have taken little by
    your stratagem--unless, indeed, it should be difficult for the young
    lady to prove the imposition put upon her--for that being admitted,
    the marriage certainly goes for nothing. At least, the only use you
    can make of it, would be to drive her into a more formal union, for
    fear of having this whole unpleasant discussion brought into a court
    of law; and in this, with all the advantages you possess, joined to
    your own arts of persuasion, and her brother's influence, I should
    think you very likely to succeed. All women are necessarily the
    slaves of their reputation. I have known some who have given up
    their virtue to preserve their character, which is, after all, only
    the shadow of it. I therefore would not conceive it difficult for
    Clara Mowbray to persuade herself to become a countess, rather than
    be the topic of conversation for all Britain, while a lawsuit
    betwixt you is in dependence; and that may be for the greater part
    of both your lives.

    "But, in Miss Mowbray's state of mind, it may require time to bring
    her to such a conclusion; and I fear you will be thwarted in your
    operations by your rival--I will not offend you by calling him your
    brother. Now, it is here that I think with pleasure I may be of some
    use to you,--under this special condition, that there shall be no
    thoughts of farther violence taking place between you. However you
    may have smoothed over your rencontre to yourself, there is no doubt
    that the public would have regarded any accident which might have
    befallen on that occasion, as a crime of the deepest dye, and that
    the law would have followed it with the most severe punishment. And
    for all that I have said of my serviceable disposition, I would fain
    stop short on this side of the gallows--my neck is too long already.
    Without a jest, Etherington, you must be ruled by counsel in this
    matter. I detect your hatred to this man in every line of your
    letter, even when you write with the greatest coolness; even where
    there is an affectation of gaiety, I read your sentiments on this
    subject; and they are such as--I will not preach to you--I will not
    say a good man--but such as every wise man--every man who wishes to
    live on fair terms with the world, and to escape general
    malediction, and perhaps a violent death, where all men will clap
    their hands and rejoice at the punishment of the fratricide,--would,
    with all possible speed, eradicate from his breast. My services
    therefore, if they are worth your acceptance, are offered on the
    condition that this unholy hatred be subdued with the utmost force
    of your powerful mind, and that you avoid every thing which can
    possibly lead to such a catastrophe as you have twice narrowly
    escaped. I do not ask you to like this man, for I know well the deep
    root which your prejudices hold in your mind; I merely ask you to
    avoid him, and to think of him as one, who, if you do meet him, can
    never be the object of personal resentment.

    "On these conditions, I will instantly join you at your Spa, and
    wait but your answer to throw myself into the post-chaise. I will
    seek out this Martigny for you, and I have the vanity to think I
    shall be able to persuade him to take the course which his own true
    interest, as well as yours, so plainly points out--and that is, to
    depart and make us free of him. You must not grudge a round sum of
    money, should that prove necessary--we must make wings for him to
    fly with, and I must be empowered by you to that purpose. I cannot
    think you have any thing serious to fear from a lawsuit. Your father
    threw out this sinister hint at a moment when he was enraged at his
    wife, and irritated by his son; and I have little doubt that his
    expressions were merely flashes of anger at the moment, though I see
    they have made a deep impression on you. At all events, he spoke of
    a preference to his illegitimate son, as something which it was in
    his own power to give or to withhold; and he has died without
    bestowing it. The family seem addicted to irregular matrimony, and
    some left-handed marriage there may have been used to propitiate the
    modesty, and save the conscience, of the French lady; but, that any
    thing of the nature of a serious and legal ceremony took place,
    nothing but the strongest proof can make me believe.

    "I repeat, then, that I have little doubt that the claims of
    Martigny, whatever they are, may be easily compounded, and England
    made clear of him. This will be more easily done, if he really
    entertains such a romantic passion, as you describe, for Miss Clara
    Mowbray. It would be easy to show him, that whether she is disposed
    to accept your lordship's hand or not, her quiet and peace of mind
    must depend on his leaving the country. Rely on it, I shall find out
    the way to smooth him down, and whether distance or the grave divide
    Martigny and you, is very little to the purpose; unless in so far as
    the one point can be attained with honour and safety, and the other,
    if attempted, would only make all concerned the subject of general
    execration and deserved punishment.--Speak the word, and I attend
    you, as your truly grateful and devoted

    "HENRY JEKYL."

To this admonitory epistle, the writer received, in the course of post, the following answer:--

    "My truly grateful and devoted Henry Jekyl has adopted a tone, which
    seems to be exalted without any occasion. Why, thou suspicious
    monitor, have I not repeated a hundred times that I repent sincerely
    of the foolish rencontre, and am determined to curb my temper, and
    be on my guard in future--And what need you come upon me, with your
    long lesson about execration, and punishment, and fratricide, and so
    forth?--You deal with an argument as a boy does with the first hare
    he shoots, which he never thinks dead till he has fired the second
    barrel into her. What a fellow you would have been for a lawyer! how
    long you would have held forth upon the plainest cause, until the
    poor bothered judge was almost willing to decide against justice,
    that he might be revenged on you. If I must repeat what I have said
    twenty times, I tell you I have no thoughts of proceeding with this
    fellow as I would with another. If my father's blood be in his
    veins, it shall save the skin his mother gave him. And so come,
    without more parade, either of stipulation or argument. Thou art,
    indeed, a curious animal! One would think, to read your
    communication, that you had yourself discovered the propriety of
    acting as a negotiator, and the reasons which might, in the course
    of such a treaty, be urged with advantage to induce this fellow to
    leave the country--Why, this is the very course chalked out in my
    last letter! You are bolder than the boldest gipsy, for you not only
    steal my ideas, and disfigure them that they may pass for yours, but
    you have the assurance to come a-begging with them to the door of
    the original parent! No man like you for stealing other men's
    inventions, and cooking them up in your own way. However, Harry,
    bating a little self-conceit and assumption, thou art as honest a
    fellow as ever man put faith in--clever, too, in your own style,
    though not quite the genius you would fain pass for.--Come on thine
    own terms, and come as speedily as thou canst. I do not reckon the
    promise I made the less binding, that you very generously make no
    allusion to it.

    "Thine,
        "ETHERINGTON.

    "P.S. One single caution I must add--do not mention my name to any
    one at Harrowgate, or your prospect of meeting me, or the route
    which you are about to take. On the purpose of your journey, it is
    unnecessary to recommend silence. I know not whether such doubts are
    natural to all who have secret measures to pursue, or whether nature
    has given me an unusual share of anxious suspicion; but I cannot
    divest myself of the idea, that I am closely watched by some one
    whom I cannot discover. Although I concealed my purpose of coming
    hither from all mankind but you, whom I do not for an instant
    suspect of blabbing, yet it was known to this Martigny, and he is
    down here before me. Again, I said not a word--gave not a hint to
    any one of my views towards Clara, yet the tattling people here had
    spread a report of a marriage depending between us, even before I
    could make the motion to her brother. To be sure, in such society
    there is nothing talked of but marrying and giving in marriage; and
    this, which alarms me, as connected with my own private purposes,
    may be a bare rumour, arising out of the gossip of the place--Yet I
    feel like the poor woman in the old story, who felt herself watched
    by an eye that glared upon her from behind the tapestry.

    "I should have told you in my last, that I had been recognised at a
    public entertainment by the old clergyman, who pronounced the
    matrimonial blessing on Clara and me, nearly eight years ago. He
    insisted upon addressing me by the name of Valentine Bulmer, under
    which I was then best known. It did not suit me at present to put
    him into my confidence, so I cut him, Harry, as I would an old
    pencil. The task was the less difficult, that I had to do with one
    of the most absent men that ever dreamed with his eyes open. I
    verily believe he might be persuaded that the whole transaction was
    a vision, and that he had never in reality seen me before. Your
    pious rebuke, therefore, about what I told him formerly concerning
    the lovers, is quite thrown away. After all, if what I said was not
    accurately true, as I certainly believe it was an exaggeration, it
    was all Saint Francis of Martigny's fault, I suppose. I am sure he
    had love and opportunity on his side.

    "Here you have a postscript, Harry, longer than the letter, but it
    must conclude with the same burden--Come, and come quickly."

CHAPTER IX.

THE FRIGHT.

    As shakes the bough of trembling leaf,
      When sudden whirlwinds rise;
    As stands aghast the warrior chief,
      When his base army flies.
     . . . . . .

It had been settled by all who took the matter into consideration, that the fidgety, fiery,
old Nabob would soon quarrel with his landlady, Mrs. Dods, and become impatient of his residence
at St. Ronan's. A man so kind to himself, and so inquisitive about the affairs of others, could
have, it was supposed, a limited sphere for gratification either of his tastes or of his curiosity,
in the Aultoun of St. Ronan's: and many a time the precise day and hour of his departure were
fixed by the idlers at the Spa. But still old Touchwood appeared amongst them when the weather
permitted, with his nut-brown visage, his throat carefully wrapped up in an immense Indian
kerchief, and his gold-headed cane, which he never failed to carry over his shoulder; his short,
but stout limbs, and his active step, showing plainly that he bore it rather as a badge of
dignity than a means of support. There he stood, answering shortly and gruffly to all questions
proposed to him, and making his remarks aloud upon the company, with great indifference as
to the offence which plight be taken; and as soon as the ancient priestess had handed him his
glass of the salutiferous water, turned on his heel with a brief good-morning, and either marched
back to hide himself in the Manse, with his crony Mr. Cargill, or to engage in some hobby-horsical
pursuit connected with his neighbours in the Aultoun.

The truth was, that the honest gentleman having, so far as Mrs. Dods would permit, put matters
to rights within her residence, wisely abstained from pushing his innovations any farther,
aware that it is not every stone which is capable of receiving the last degree of polish. He
next set himself about putting Mr. Cargill's house into order; and without leave asked or given
by that reverend gentleman, he actually accomplished as wonderful a reformation in the Manse,
as could have been effected by a benevolent Brownie. The floors were sometimes swept--the carpets
were sometimes shaken--the plates and dishes were cleaner--there was tea and sugar in the tea-chest,
and a joint of meat at proper times was to be found in the larder. The elder maid-servant wore
a good stuff gown--the younger snooded up her hair, and now went about the house a damsel so
trig and neat, that some said she was too handsome for the service of a bachelor divine; and
others, that they saw no business so old a fool as the Nabob had to be meddling with a lassie's
busking. But for such evil bruits Mr. Touchwood cared not, even if he happened to hear of them,
which was very doubtful. Add to all these changes, that the garden was weeded, and the glebe
was regularly laboured.

The talisman by which all this desirable alteration was wrought, consisted partly in small
presents, partly in constant attention. The liberality of the singular old gentleman gave him
a perfect right to scold when he saw things wrong; the domestics, who had fallen into total
sloth and indifference, began to exert themselves under Mr. Touchwood's new system of rewards
and surveillance; and the minister, half unconscious of the cause, reaped the advantage of
the exertions of his busy friend. Sometimes he lifted his head, when he heard workmen thumping
and bouncing in the neighbourhood of his study, and demanded the meaning of the clatter which
annoyed him; but on receiving for answer that it was by order of Mr. Touchwood, he resumed
his labours, under the persuasion that all was well.

But even the Augean task of putting the Manse in order, did not satisfy the gigantic activity
of Mr. Touchwood. He aspired to universal dominion in the Aultoun of St. Ronan's; and, like
most men of an ardent temper, he contrived, in a great measure, to possess himself of the authority
which he longed after. Then was there war waged by him with all the petty, but perpetual nuisances,
which infest a Scottish town of the old stamp--then was the hereditary dunghill, which had
reeked before the window of the cottage for fourscore years, transported behind the house--then
was the broken wheelbarrow, or unserviceable cart, removed out of the footpath--the old hat,
or blue petticoat, taken from the window into which it had been stuffed, to "expel the winter's
flaw," was consigned to the gutter, and its place supplied by good perspicuous glass. The means
by which such reformation was effected, were the same as resorted to in the Manse--money and
admonition. The latter given alone would have met little attention--perhaps would have provoked
opposition--but, softened and sweetened by a little present to assist the reform recommended,
it sunk into the hearts of the hearers, and in general overcame their objections. Besides,
an opinion of the Nabob's wealth was high among the villagers; and an idea prevailed amongst
them, that, notwithstanding his keeping no servants or equipage, he was able to purchase, if
he pleased, half the land in the country. It was not grand carriages and fine liveries that
made heavy purses, they rather helped to lighten them; and they said, who pretended to know
what they were talking about, that old Turnpenny, and Mr. Bindloose to boot, would tell down
more money on Mr. Touchwood's mere word, than upon the joint bond of half the fine folk at
the Well. Such an opinion smoothed every thing before the path of one, who showed himself neither
averse to give nor to lend; and it by no means diminished the reputation of his wealth, that
in transactions of business he was not carelessly negligent of his interest, but plainly showed
he understood the value of what he was parting with. Few, therefore, cared to withstand the
humours of a whimsical old gentleman, who had both the will and the means of obliging those
disposed to comply with his fancies; and thus the singular stranger contrived, in the course
of a brief space of days or weeks, to place the villagers more absolutely at his devotion,
than they had been to the pleasure of any individual since their ancient lords had left the
Aultoun. The power of the baron-bailie himself, though the office was vested in the person
of old Meiklewham, was a subordinate jurisdiction, compared to the voluntary allegiance which
the inhabitants paid to Mr. Touchwood.

There were, however, recusants, who declined the authority thus set up amongst them, and, with
the characteristic obstinacy of their countrymen, refused to hearken to the words of the stranger,
whether they were for good or for evil. These men's dunghills were not removed, nor the stumbling-blocks
taken from the footpath, where it passed the front of their houses. And it befell, that while
Mr. Touchwood was most eager in abating the nuisances of the village, he had very nearly experienced
a frequent fate of great reformers--that of losing his life by means of one of those enormities
which as yet had subsisted in spite of all his efforts.

The Nabob finding his time after dinner hang somewhat heavy on his hand, and the moon being
tolerably bright, had, one harvest evening, sought his usual remedy for dispelling ennui by
a walk to the Manse, where he was sure, that, if he could not succeed in engaging the minister
himself in some disputation, he would at least find something in the establishment to animadvert
upon and to restore to order.

Accordingly, he had taken the opportunity to lecture the younger of the minister's lasses upon
the duty of wearing shoes and stockings; and, as his advice came fortified by a present of
six pair of white cotton hose, and two pair of stout leathern shoes, it was received, not with
respect only, but with gratitude, and the chuck under the chin that rounded up the oration,
while she opened the outer door for his honour, was acknowledged with a blush and a giggle.
Nay, so far did Grizzy carry her sense of Mr. Touchwood's kindness, that, observing the moon
was behind a cloud, she very carefully offered to escort him to the Cleikum Inn with a lantern,
in case he should come to some harm by the gate. This the traveller's independent spirit scorned
to listen to; and, having briefly assured her that he had walked the streets of Paris and of
Madrid whole nights without such an accommodation, he stoutly strode off on his return to his
lodgings.

An accident, however, befell him, which, unless the police of Madrid and Paris be belied, might
have happened in either of those two splendid capitals, as well as in the miserable Aultoun
of St. Ronan's. Before the door of Saunders Jaup, a feuar of some importance, "who held his
land free, and caredna a bodle for any one," yawned that odoriferous gulf, ycleped, in Scottish
phrase, the jawhole; in other words, an uncovered common sewer. The local situation of this
receptacle of filth was well known to Mr. Touchwood; for Saunders Jaup was at the very head
of those who held out for the practices of their fathers, and still maintained those ancient
and unsavoury customs which our traveller had in so many instances succeeded in abating. Guided,
therefore, by his nose, the Nabob made a considerable circuit to avoid the displeasure and
danger of passing this filthy puddle at the nearest, and by that means fell upon Scylla as
he sought to avoid Charybdis. In plain language, he approached so near the bank of a little
rivulet, which in that place passed betwixt the footpath and the horse-road, that he lost his
footing, and fell into the channel of the streamlet from a height of three or four feet. It
was thought that the noise of his fall, or at least his call for assistance, must have been
heard in the house of Saunders Jaup; but that honest person was, according to his own account,
at that time engaged in the exercise of the evening; an excuse which passed current, although
Saunders was privately heard to allege, that the town would have been the quieter, "if the
auld, meddling busybody had bidden still in the burn for gude and a'."

But Fortune had provided better for poor Touchwood, whose foibles, as they arose out of the
most excellent motives, would have ill deserved so severe a fate. A passenger, who heard him
shout for help, ventured cautiously to the side of the bank, down which he had fallen; and,
after ascertaining the nature of the ground as carefully as the darkness permitted, was at
length, and not without some effort, enabled to assist him out of the channel of the rivulet.

"Are you hurt materially?" said this good Samaritan to the object of his care.

"No--no--d--n it--no," said Touchwood, extremely angry at his disaster, and the cause of it.
"Do you think I, who have been at the summit of Mount Athos, where the precipice sinks a thousand
feet on the sea, care a farthing about such a fall as this is?"

But, as he spoke, he reeled, and his kind assistant caught him by the arm to prevent his falling.

"I fear you are more hurt than you suppose, sir," said the stranger: "permit me to go home
along with you."

"With all my heart," said Touchwood; "for though it is impossible I can need help in such a
foolish matter, yet I am equally obliged to you, friend; and if the Cleikum Inn be not out
of your road, I will take your arm so far, and thank you to the boot."

"It is much at your service, sir," said the stranger; "indeed, I was thinking to lodge there
for the night."

"I am glad to hear it," resumed Touchwood; "you shall be my guest, and I will make them look
after you in proper fashion--You seem to be a very civil sort of fellow, and I do not find
your arm inconvenient--it is the rheumatism makes me walk so ill--the pest of all that have
been in hot climates when they settle among these d--d fogs."

"Lean as hard and walk as slow as you will, sir," said the benevolent assistant--"this is a
rough street."

"Yes, sir--and why is it rough?" answered Touchwood. "Why, because the old pig-headed fool,
Saunders Jaup, will not allow it to be made smooth. There he sits, sir, and obstructs all rational
improvement; and, if a man would not fall into his infernal putrid gutter, and so become an
abomination to himself and odious to others, for his whole life to come, he runs the risk of
breaking his neck, as I have done to-night."

"I am afraid, sir," said his companion, "you have fallen on the most dangerous side.--You remember
Swift's proverb, 'The more dirt, the less hurt.'"

"But why should there be either dirt or hurt in a well-regulated place?" answered Touchwood--"Why
should not men be able to go about their affairs at night, in such a hamlet as this, without
either endangering necks or noses?--Our Scottish magistrates are worth nothing, sir--nothing
at all. Oh for a Turkish Cadi, now, to trounce the scoundrel--or the Mayor of Calcutta to bring
him into his court--or were it but an English Justice of the Peace that is newly included in
the commission, they would abate the villain's nuisance with a vengeance on him!--But here
we are--this is the Cleikum Inn.--Hallo--hilloa--house!--Eppie Anderson!--Beenie Chambermaid!--boy
Boots!--Mrs. Dods!--are you all of you asleep and dead?--Here have I been half murdered, and
you let me stand bawling at the door!"

Eppie Anderson came with a light, and so did Beenie Chambermaid with another; but no sooner
did they look upon the pair who stood in the porch under the huge sign that swung to and fro
with heavy creaking, than Beenie screamed, flung away her candle, although a four in the pound,
and in a newly japanned candlestick, and fled one way, while Eppie Anderson, echoing the yell,
brandished her light round her head like a Bacchante flourishing her torch, and ran off in
another direction.

"Ay--I must be a bloody spectacle," said Mr. Touchwood, letting himself fall heavily upon his
assistant's shoulder, and wiping his face, which trickled with wet--"I did not think I had
been so seriously hurt; but I find my weakness now--I must have lost much blood."

"I hope you are still mistaken," said the stranger; "but here lies the way to the kitchen--we
shall find light there, since no one chooses to bring it to us."

He assisted the old gentleman into the kitchen, where a lamp, as well as a bright fire, was
burning, by the light of which he could easily discern that the supposed blood was only water
of the rivulet, and, indeed, none of the cleanest, although much more so than the sufferer
would have found it a little lower, where the stream is joined by the superfluities of Saunders
Jaup's palladium. Relieved by his new friend's repeated assurances that such was the case,
the Senior began to bustle up a little, and his companion, desirous to render him every assistance,
went to the door of the kitchen to call for a basin and water. Just as he was about to open
the door, the voice of Mrs. Dods was heard as she descended the stairs, in a tone of indignation
by no means unusual to her, yet mingled at the same time with a few notes that sounded like
unto the quaverings of consternation.

"Idle limmers--silly sluts--I'll warrant nane o' ye will ever see ony thing waur than yoursell,
ye silly tawpies--Ghaist, indeed!--I'll warrant it's some idle dub-skelper frae the Waal, coming
after some o' yoursells on nae honest errand--Ghaist, indeed!--Haud up the candle, John Ostler--I'se
warrant it a twa-handed ghaist, and the door left on the sneck. There's somebody in the kitchen--gang
forward wi' the lantern, John Ostler."

