 There was,
 The open shoe.
 The close shoe.
 The slip shoe.
 The wooden shoe.
 The soc.
 The buskin.
 And The military shoe with hobnails in it, which Juvenal takes
    notice of.

 There were,
 The clogs.
 The pattins.
 The pantoufles.
 The brogues.
 The sandals, with latchets to them.

 There was,
 The felt shoe.
 The linen shoe.
 The laced shoe.
 The braided shoe.
 The calceus incisus.
 And The calceus rostratus.

Rubenius shewed my father how well they all fitted,--in what manner they laced on,--with what
points, straps, thongs, latchets, ribbands, jaggs, and ends.--

--But I want to be informed about the breeches, said my father.

Albertus Rubenius informed my father that the Romans manufactured stuffs of various fabrics,--some
plain,--some striped,--others diapered throughout the whole contexture of the wool, with silk
and gold--That linen did not begin to be in common use till towards the declension of the empire,
when the Egyptians coming to settle amongst them, brought it into vogue.

--That persons of quality and fortune distinguished themselves by the fineness and whiteness
of their clothes; which colour (next to purple, which was appropriated to the great offices)
they most affected, and wore on their birth-days and public rejoicings.--That it appeared from
the best historians of those times, that they frequently sent their clothes to the fuller,
to be clean'd and whitened:--but that the inferior people, to avoid that expence, generally
wore brown clothes, and of a something coarser texture,--till towards the beginning of Augustus's
reign, when the slave dressed like his master, and almost every distinction of habiliment was
lost, but the Latus Clavus.

And what was the Latus Clavus? said my father.

Rubenius told him, that the point was still litigating amongst the learned:--That Egnatius,
Sigonius, Bossius Ticinensis, Bayfius Budaeus, Salmasius, Lipsius, Lazius, Isaac Casaubon,
and Joseph Scaliger, all differed from each other,--and he from them: That some took it to
be the button,--some the coat itself,--others only the colour of it;--That the great Bayfuis
in his Wardrobe of the Ancients, chap. 12--honestly said, he knew not what it was,--whether
a tibula,--a stud,--a button,--a loop,--a buckle,--or clasps and keepers.--

--My father lost the horse, but not the saddle--They are hooks and eyes, said my father--and
with hooks and eyes he ordered my breeches to be made.

Chapter 3.LXIII.

We are now going to enter upon a new scene of events.--

--Leave we then the breeches in the taylor's hands, with my father standing over him with his
cane, reading him as he sat at work a lecture upon the latus clavus, and pointing to the precise
part of the waistband, where he was determined to have it sewed on.--

Leave we my mother--(truest of all the Poco-curante's of her sex!)--careless about it, as about
every thing else in the world which concerned her;--that is,--indifferent whether it was done
this way or that,--provided it was but done at all.--

Leave we Slop likewise to the full profits of all my dishonours.--

Leave we poor Le Fever to recover, and get home from Marseilles as he can.--And last of all,--because
the hardest of all--

Let us leave, if possible, myself:--But 'tis impossible,--I must go along with you to the end
of the work.

Chapter 3.LXIV.

When the place was finished in this manner, and put into a proper posture of defence,--it was
invested,--and my uncle Toby and the corporal began to run their first parallel.--I beg I may
not be interrupted in my story, by being told, That the first parallel should be at least three
hundred toises distant from the main body of the place,--and that I have not left a single
inch for it;--for my uncle Toby took the liberty of incroaching upon his kitchen-garden, for
the sake of enlarging his works on the bowling-green, and for that reason generally ran his
first and second parallels betwixt two rows of his cabbages and his cauliflowers; the conveniences
and inconveniences of which will be considered at large in the history of my uncle Toby's and
the corporal's campaigns, of which, this I'm now writing is but a sketch, and will be finished,
if I conjecture right, in three pages (but there is no guessing)--The campaigns themselves
will take up as many books; and therefore I apprehend it would be hanging too great a weight
of one kind of matter in so flimsy a performance as this, to rhapsodize them, as I once intended,
into the body of the work--surely they had better be printed apart,--we'll consider the affair--so
take the following sketch of them in the mean time.

Chapter 3.LXV.

The first year's campaign was carried on from beginning to end, in the plain and simple method
I've related.

In the second year, in which my uncle Toby took Liege and Ruremond, he thought he might afford
the expence of four handsome draw-bridges; of two of which I have given an exact description
in the former part of my work.

At the latter end of the same year he added a couple of gates with port-cullises:--These last
were converted afterwards into orgues, as the better thing; and during the winter of the same
year, my uncle Toby, instead of a new suit of clothes, which he always had at Christmas, treated
himself with a handsome sentry-box, to stand at the corner of the bowling-green, betwixt which
point and the foot of the glacis, there was left a little kind of an esplanade for him and
the corporal to confer and hold councils of war upon.

--The sentry-box was in case of rain.

All these were painted white three times over the ensuing spring, which enabled my uncle Toby
to take the field with great splendour.

My father would often say to Yorick, that if any mortal in the whole universe had done such
a thing except his brother Toby, it would have been looked upon by the world as one of the
most refined satires upon the parade and prancing manner in which Lewis XIV. from the beginning
of the war, but particularly that very year, had taken the field--But 'tis not my brother Toby's
nature, kind soul! my father would add, to insult any one.

--But let us go on.

Chapter 3.LXVI.

I must observe, that although in the first year's campaign, the word town is often mentioned,--yet
there was no town at that time within the polygon; that addition was not made till the summer
following the spring in which the bridges and sentry-box were painted, which was the third
year of my uncle Toby's campaigns,--when upon his taking Amberg, Bonn, and Rhinberg, and Huy
and Limbourg, one after another, a thought came into the corporal's head, that to talk of taking
so many towns, without one Town to shew for it,--was a very nonsensical way of going to work,
and so proposed to my uncle Toby, that they should have a little model of a town built for
them,--to be run up together of slit deals, and then painted, and clapped within the interior
polygon to serve for all.

My uncle Toby felt the good of the project instantly, and instantly agreed to it, but with
the addition of two singular improvements, of which he was almost as proud as if he had been
the original inventor of the project itself.

The one was, to have the town built exactly in the style of those of which it was most likely
to be the representative:--with grated windows, and the gable ends of the houses, facing the
streets, &c. &c.--as those in Ghent and Bruges, and the rest of the towns in Brabant and Flanders.

The other was, not to have the houses run up together, as the corporal proposed, but to have
every house independent, to hook on, or off, so as to form into the plan of whatever town they
pleased. This was put directly into hand, and many and many a look of mutual congratulation
was exchanged between my uncle Toby and the corporal, as the carpenter did the work.

--It answered prodigiously the next summer--the town was a perfect Proteus--It was Landen,
and Trerebach, and Santvliet, and Drusen, and Hagenau,--and then it was Ostend and Menin, and
Aeth and Dendermond.

--Surely never did any Town act so many parts, since Sodom and Gomorrah, as my uncle Toby's
town did.

In the fourth year, my uncle Toby thinking a town looked foolishly without a church, added
a very fine one with a steeple.--Trim was for having bells in it;--my uncle Toby said, the
metal had better be cast into cannon.

This led the way the next campaign for half a dozen brass field-pieces, to be planted three
and three on each side of my uncle Toby's sentry-box; and in a short time, these led the way
for a train of somewhat larger,--and so on--(as must always be the case in hobby-horsical affairs)
from pieces of half an inch bore, till it came at last to my father's jack boots.

The next year, which was that in which Lisle was besieged, and at the close of which both Ghent
and Bruges fell into our hands,--my uncle Toby was sadly put to it for proper ammunition;--I
say proper ammunition--because his great artillery would not bear powder; and 'twas well for
the Shandy family they would not--For so full were the papers, from the beginning to the end
of the siege, of the incessant firings kept up by the besiegers,--and so heated was my uncle
Toby's imagination with the accounts of them, that he had infallibly shot away all his estate.

Something therefore was wanting as a succedaneum, especially in one or two of the more violent
paroxysms of the siege, to keep up something like a continual firing in the imagination,--and
this something, the corporal, whose principal strength lay in invention, supplied by an entire
new system of battering of his own,--without which, this had been objected to by military critics,
to the end of the world, as one of the great desiderata of my uncle Toby's apparatus.

This will not be explained the worse, for setting off, as I generally do, at a little distance
from the subject.

Chapter 3.LXVII.

With two or three other trinkets, small in themselves, but of great regard, which poor Tom,
the corporal's unfortunate brother, had sent him over, with the account of his marriage with
the Jew's widow--there was

A Montero-cap and two Turkish tobacco-pipes.

The Montero-cap I shall describe by and bye.--The Turkish tobacco-pipes had nothing particular
in them, they were fitted up and ornamented as usual, with flexible tubes of Morocco leather
and gold wire, and mounted at their ends, the one of them with ivory,--the other with black
ebony, tipp'd with silver.

My father, who saw all things in lights different from the rest of the world, would say to
the corporal, that he ought to look upon these two presents more as tokens of his brother's
nicety, than his affection.--Tom did not care, Trim, he would say, to put on the cap, or to
smoke in the tobacco-pipe of a Jew.--God bless your honour, the corporal would say (giving
a strong reason to the contrary)--how can that be?

The Montero-cap was scarlet, of a superfine Spanish cloth, dyed in grain, and mounted all round
with fur, except about four inches in the front, which was faced with a light blue, slightly
embroidered,--and seemed to have been the property of a Portuguese quarter-master, not of foot,
but of horse, as the word denotes.

The corporal was not a little proud of it, as well for its own sake, as the sake of the giver,
so seldom or never put it on but upon Gala-days; and yet never was a Montero-cap put to so
many uses; for in all controverted points, whether military or culinary, provided the corporal
was sure he was in the right,--it was either his oath,--his wager,--or his gift.

--'Twas his gift in the present case.

I'll be bound, said the corporal, speaking to himself, to give away my Montero-cap to the first
beggar who comes to the door, if I do not manage this matter to his honour's satisfaction.

The completion was no further off, than the very next morning; which was that of the storm
of the counterscarp betwixt the Lower Deule, to the right, and the gate St. Andrew,--and on
the left, between St. Magdalen's and the river.

As this was the most memorable attack in the whole war,--the most gallant and obstinate on
both sides,--and I must add the most bloody too, for it cost the allies themselves that morning
above eleven hundred men,--my uncle Toby prepared himself for it with a more than ordinary
solemnity.

The eve which preceded, as my uncle Toby went to bed, he ordered his ramallie wig, which had
laid inside out for many years in the corner of an old campaigning trunk, which stood by his
bedside, to be taken out and laid upon the lid of it, ready for the morning;--and the very
first thing he did in his shirt, when he had stepped out of bed, my uncle Toby, after he had
turned the rough side outwards,--put it on:--This done, he proceeded next to his breeches,
and having buttoned the waist-band, he forthwith buckled on his sword-belt, and had got his
sword half way in,--when he considered he should want shaving, and that it would be very inconvenient
doing it with his sword on,--so took it off:--In essaying to put on his regimental coat and
waistcoat, my uncle Toby found the same objection in his wig,--so that went off too:--So that
what with one thing and what with another, as always falls out when a man is in the most haste,--'twas
ten o'clock, which was half an hour later than his usual time, before my uncle Toby sallied out.

Chapter 3.LXVIII.

My uncle Toby had scarce turned the corner of his yew hedge, which separated his kitchen-garden
from his bowling-green, when he perceived the corporal had begun the attack without him.--

Let me stop and give you a picture of the corporal's apparatus; and of the corporal himself
in the height of his attack, just as it struck my uncle Toby, as he turned towards the sentry-box,
where the corporal was at work,--for in nature there is not such another,--nor can any combination
of all that is grotesque and whimsical in her works produce its equal.

The corporal--

--Tread lightly on his ashes, ye men of genius,--for he was your kinsman:

Weed his grave clean, ye men of goodness,--for he was your brother.--Oh corporal! had I thee,
but now,--now, that I am able to give thee a dinner and protection,--how would I cherish thee!
thou should'st wear thy Montero-cap every hour of the day, and every day of the week.--and
when it was worn out, I would purchase thee a couple like it:--But alas! alas! alas! now that
I can do this in spite of their reverences--the occasion is lost--for thou art gone;--thy genius
fled up to the stars from whence it came;--and that warm heart of thine, with all its generous
and open vessels, compressed into a clod of the valley!

--But what--what is this, to that future and dreaded page, where I look towards the velvet
pall, decorated with the military ensigns of thy master--the first--the foremost of created
beings;--where, I shall see thee, faithful servant! laying his sword and scabbard with a trembling
hand across his coffin, and then returning pale as ashes to the door, to take his mourning
horse by the bridle, to follow his hearse, as he directed thee;--where--all my father's systems
shall be baffled by his sorrows; and, in spite of his philosophy, I shall behold him, as he
inspects the lackered plate, twice taking his spectacles from off his nose, to wipe away the
dew which nature has shed upon them--When I see him cast in the rosemary with an air of disconsolation,
which cries through my ears,--O Toby! in what corner of the world shall I seek thy fellow?

--Gracious powers! which erst have opened the lips of the dumb in his distress, and made the
tongue of the stammerer speak plain--when I shall arrive at this dreaded page, deal not with
me, then, with a stinted hand.

Chapter 3.LXIX.

The corporal, who the night before had resolved in his mind to supply the grand desideratum,
of keeping up something like an incessant firing upon the enemy during the heat of the attack,--had
no further idea in his fancy at that time, than a contrivance of smoking tobacco against the
town, out of one of my uncle Toby's six field-pieces, which were planted on each side of his
sentry-box; the means of effecting which occurring to his fancy at the same time, though he
had pledged his cap, he thought it in no danger from the miscarriage of his projects.

Upon turning it this way, and that, a little in his mind, he soon began to find out, that by
means of his two Turkish tobacco-pipes, with the supplement of three smaller tubes of wash-leather
at each of their lower ends, to be tagg'd by the same number of tin-pipes fitted to the touch-holes,
and sealed with clay next the cannon, and then tied hermetically with waxed silk at their several
insertions into the Morocco tube,--he should be able to fire the six field-pieces all together,
and with the same ease as to fire one.--

--Let no man say from what taggs and jaggs hints may not be cut out for the advancement of
human knowledge. Let no man, who has read my father's first and second beds of justice, ever
rise up and say again, from collision of what kinds of bodies light may or may not be struck
out, to carry the arts and sciences up to perfection.--Heaven! thou knowest how I love them;--thou
knowest the secrets of my heart, and that I would this moment give my shirt--Thou art a fool,
Shandy, says Eugenius, for thou hast but a dozen in the world,--and 'twill break thy set.--

No matter for that, Eugenius; I would give the shirt off my back to be burnt into tinder, were
it only to satisfy one feverish enquirer, how many sparks at one good stroke, a good flint
and steel could strike into the tail of it.--Think ye not that in striking these in,--he might,
per-adventure, strike something out? as sure as a gun.--

--But this project, by the bye.

The corporal sat up the best part of the night, in bringing his to perfection; and having made
a sufficient proof of his cannon, with charging them to the top with tobacco,--he went with
contentment to bed.

Chapter 3.LXX.

The corporal had slipped out about ten minutes before my uncle Toby, in order to fix his apparatus,
and just give the enemy a shot or two before my uncle Toby came.

He had drawn the six field-pieces for this end, all close up together in front of my uncle
Toby's sentry-box, leaving only an interval of about a yard and a half betwixt the three, on
the right and left, for the convenience of charging, &c.--and the sake possibly of two batteries,
which he might think double the honour of one.

In the rear and facing this opening, with his back to the door of the sentry-box, for fear
of being flanked, had the corporal wisely taken his post:--He held the ivory pipe, appertaining
to the battery on the right, betwixt the finger and thumb of his right hand,--and the ebony
pipe tipp'd with silver, which appertained to the battery on the left, betwixt the finger and
thumb of the other--and with his right knee fixed firm upon the ground, as if in the front
rank of his platoon, was the corporal, with his Montero-cap upon his head, furiously playing
off his two cross batteries at the same time against the counter-guard, which faced the counterscarp,
where the attack was to be made that morning. His first intention, as I said, was no more than
giving the enemy a single puff or two;--but the pleasure of the puffs, as well as the puffing,
had insensibly got hold of the corporal, and drawn him on from puff to puff, into the very
height of the attack, by the time my uncle Toby joined him.

'Twas well for my father, that my uncle Toby had not his will to make that day.

Chapter 3.LXXI.

My uncle Toby took the ivory pipe out of the corporal's hand,--looked at it for half a minute,
and returned it.

In less than two minutes, my uncle Toby took the pipe from the corporal again, and raised it
half way to his mouth--then hastily gave it back a second time.

The corporal redoubled the attack,--my uncle Toby smiled,--then looked grave,--then smiled
for a moment,--then looked serious for a long time;--Give me hold of the ivory pipe, Trim,
said my uncle Toby--my uncle Toby put it to his lips,--drew it back directly,--gave a peep
over the horn-beam hedge;--never did my uncle Toby's mouth water so much for a pipe in his
life.--My uncle Toby retired into the sentry-box with the pipe in his hand.--

--Dear uncle Toby! don't go into the sentry-box with the pipe,--there's no trusting a man's
self with such a thing in such a corner.

Chapter 3.LXXII.

I beg the reader will assist me here, to wheel off my uncle Toby's ordnance behind the scenes,--to
remove his sentry-box, and clear the theatre, if possible, of horn-works and half moons, and
get the rest of his military apparatus out of the way;--that done, my dear friend Garrick,
we'll snuff the candles bright,--sweep the stage with a new broom,--draw up the curtain, and
exhibit my uncle Toby dressed in a new character, throughout which the world can have no idea
how he will act: and yet, if pity be a-kin to love,--and bravery no alien to it, you have seen
enough of my uncle Toby in these, to trace these family likenesses, betwixt the two passions
(in case there is one) to your heart's content.

Vain science! thou assistest us in no case of this kind--and thou puzzlest us in every one.

There was, Madam, in my uncle Toby, a singleness of heart which misled him so far out of the
little serpentine tracks in which things of this nature usually go on; you can--you can have
no conception of it: with this, there was a plainness and simplicity of thinking, with such
an unmistrusting ignorance of the plies and foldings of the heart of woman;--and so naked and
defenceless did he stand before you, (when a siege was out of his head,) that you might have
stood behind any one of your serpentine walks, and shot my uncle Toby ten times in a day, through
his liver, if nine times in a day, Madam, had not served your purpose.

With all this, Madam,--and what confounded every thing as much on the other hand, my uncle
Toby had that unparalleled modesty of nature I once told you of, and which, by the bye, stood
eternal sentry upon his feelings, that you might as soon--But where am I going? these reflections
crowd in upon me ten pages at least too soon, and take up that time, which I ought to bestow
upon facts.

Chapter 3.LXXIII.

Of the few legitimate sons of Adam whose breasts never felt what the sting of love was,--(maintaining
first, all mysogynists to be bastards,)--the greatest heroes of ancient and modern story have
carried off amongst them nine parts in ten of the honour; and I wish for their sakes I had
the key of my study, out of my draw-well, only for five minutes, to tell you their names--recollect
them I cannot--so be content to accept of these, for the present, in their stead.

There was the great king Aldrovandus, and Bosphorus, and Cappadocius, and Dardanus, and Pontus,
and Asius,--to say nothing of the iron-hearted Charles the XIIth, whom the Countess of K.....
herself could make nothing of.--There was Babylonicus, and Mediterraneus, and Polixenes, and
Persicus, and Prusicus, not one of whom (except Cappadocius and Pontus, who were both a little
suspected) ever once bowed down his breast to the goddess--The truth is, they had all of them
something else to do--and so had my uncle Toby--till Fate--till Fate I say, envying his name
the glory of being handed down to posterity with Aldrovandus's and the rest,--she basely patched
up the peace of Utrecht.

--Believe me, Sirs, 'twas the worst deed she did that year.

Chapter 3.LXXIV.

Amongst the many ill consequences of the treaty of Utrecht, it was within a point of giving
my uncle Toby a surfeit of sieges; and though he recovered his appetite afterwards, yet Calais
itself left not a deeper scar in Mary's heart, than Utrecht upon my uncle Toby's. To the end
of his life he never could hear Utrecht mentioned upon any account whatever,--or so much as
read an article of news extracted out of the Utrecht Gazette, without fetching a sigh, as if
his heart would break in twain.

My father, who was a great Motive-Monger, and consequently a very dangerous person for a man
to sit by, either laughing or crying,--for he generally knew your motive for doing both, much
better than you knew it yourself--would always console my uncle Toby upon these occasions,
in a way, which shewed plainly, he imagined my uncle Toby grieved for nothing in the whole
affair, so much as the loss of his hobby-horse.--Never mind, brother Toby, he would say,--by
God's blessing we shall have another war break out again some of these days; and when it does,--the
belligerent powers, if they would hang themselves, cannot keep us out of play.--I defy 'em,
my dear Toby, he would add, to take countries without taking towns,--or towns without sieges.

My uncle Toby never took this back-stroke of my father's at his hobby-horse kindly.--He thought
the stroke ungenerous; and the more so, because in striking the horse he hit the rider too,
and in the most dishonourable part a blow could fall; so that upon these occasions, he always
laid down his pipe upon the table with more fire to defend himself than common.

I told the reader, this time two years, that my uncle Toby was not eloquent; and in the very
same page gave an instance to the contrary:--I repeat the observation, and a fact which contradicts
it again.--He was not eloquent,--it was not easy to my uncle Toby to make long harangues,--and
he hated florid ones; but there were occasions where the stream overflowed the man, and ran
so counter to its usual course, that in some parts my uncle Toby, for a time, was at least
equal to Tertullus--but in others, in my own opinion, infinitely above him.

My father was so highly pleased with one of these apologetical orations of my uncle Toby's,
which he had delivered one evening before him and Yorick, that he wrote it down before he went
to bed.

I have had the good fortune to meet with it amongst my father's papers, with here and there
an insertion of his own, betwixt two crooks, thus (.. .), and is endorsed,

My Brother Toby's Justification of His Own Principles and Conduct in Wishing to Continue the War.

I may safely say, I have read over this apologetical oration of my uncle Toby's a hundred times,
and think it so fine a model of defence,--and shews so sweet a temperament of gallantry and
good principles in him, that I give it the world, word for word (interlineations and all),
as I find it.

Chapter 3.LXXV.

My Uncle Toby's Apologetical Oration.

I am not insensible, brother Shandy, that when a man whose profession is arms, wishes, as I
have done, for war,--it has an ill aspect to the world;--and that, how just and right soever
his motives the intentions may be,--he stands in an uneasy posture in vindicating himself from
private views in doing it.

For this cause, if a soldier is a prudent man, which he may be without being a jot the less
brave, he will be sure not to utter his wish in the hearing of an enemy; for say what he will,
an enemy will not believe him.--He will be cautious of doing it even to a friend,--lest he
may suffer in his esteem:--But if his heart is overcharged, and a secret sigh for arms must
have its vent, he will reserve it for the ear of a brother, who knows his character to the
bottom, and what his true notions, dispositions, and principles of honour are: What, I hope,
I have been in all these, brother Shandy, would be unbecoming in me to say:--much worse, I
know, have I been than I ought,--and something worse, perhaps, than I think: But such as I
am, you, my dear brother Shandy, who have sucked the same breasts with me,--and with whom I
have been brought up from my cradle,--and from whose knowledge, from the first hours of our
boyish pastimes, down to this, I have concealed no one action of my life, and scarce a thought
in it--Such as I am, brother, you must by this time know me, with all my vices, and with all
my weaknesses too, whether of my age, my temper, my passions, or my understanding.

Tell me then, my dear brother Shandy, upon which of them it is, that when I condemned the peace
of Utrecht, and grieved the war was not carried on with vigour a little longer, you should
think your brother did it upon unworthy views; or that in wishing for war, he should be bad
enough to wish more of his fellow-creatures slain,--more slaves made, and more families driven
from their peaceful habitations, merely for his own pleasure:--Tell me, brother Shandy, upon
what one deed of mine do you ground it? (The devil a deed do I know of, dear Toby, but one
for a hundred pounds, which I lent thee to carry on these cursed sieges.)

If, when I was a school-boy, I could not hear a drum beat, but my heart beat with it--was it
my fault?--Did I plant the propensity there?--Did I sound the alarm within, or Nature?

When Guy, Earl of Warwick, and Parismus and Parismenus, and Valentine and Orson, and the Seven
Champions of England, were handed around the school,--were they not all purchased with my own
pocket-money? Was that selfish, brother Shandy? When we read over the siege of Troy, which
lasted ten years and eight months,--though with such a train of artillery as we had at Namur,
the town might have been carried in a week--was I not as much concerned for the destruction
of the Greeks and Trojans as any boy of the whole school? Had I not three strokes of a ferula
given me, two on my right hand, and one on my left, for calling Helena a bitch for it? Did
any one of you shed more tears for Hector? And when king Priam came to the camp to beg his
body, and returned weeping back to Troy without it,--you know, brother, I could not eat my
dinner.--

--Did that bespeak me cruel? Or because, brother Shandy, my blood flew out into the camp, and
my heart panted for war,--was it a proof it could not ache for the distresses of war too?

O brother! 'tis one thing for a soldier to gather laurels,--and 'tis another to scatter cypress.--(Who
told thee, my dear Toby, that cypress was used by the antients on mournful occasions?)

--'Tis one thing, brother Shandy, for a soldier to hazard his own life--to leap first down
into the trench, where he is sure to be cut in pieces:--'Tis one thing, from public spirit
and a thirst of glory, to enter the breach the first man,--to stand in the foremost rank, and
march bravely on with drums and trumpets, and colours flying about his ears:--'Tis one thing,
I say, brother Shandy, to do this,--and 'tis another thing to reflect on the miseries of war;--to
view the desolations of whole countries, and consider the intolerable fatigues and hardships
which the soldier himself, the instrument who works them, is forced (for sixpence a day, if
he can get it) to undergo.

