No. 16

THAT GOSPEL SERMON

ON THE BLESSED HOPE.

BY D. L. MOODY.

A Sermon delivered by D. L. MOODY, the Evangelist, at the Great Chicago Tabernacle, Jan. 5,
1877. Repeated in the Boston Tabernacle, April 29th. But Paul does not talk that way; he says:
"All scripture is ... profitable for doctrine." If these people are right, he ought to have
said: "Some scripture is profitable; but you can not understand the prophecies, so you had
better let them alone." If God did not mean to have us study the prophecies, he would not have
put them in the Bible. Some of them are fulfilled, and he is at work fulfilling the rest, so
that if we do not see them all completed in this life, we shall in the world to come.

I do not want to teach anything to-day dogmatically, on my own authority, but to my mind this
precious doctrine--for such I must call it--of the return of the Lord to this earth is taught
in the New Testament as clearly as any other doctrine is; yet I was in the church fifteen or
sixteen years before I ever heard a sermon on it. There is hardly any church that does not
make a great deal of baptism, but the New Testament only speaks about baptism thirteen times,
while it speaks of the return of our Lord fifty times; and yet the church has had very little
to say about it. Now, I can see a reason for this: the devil does not want us to see this truth,
for nothing would wake up the church so much. The moment a man takes hold of the truth that
Jesus Christ is coming back again to receive his friends to himself, this world loses its hold
upon him; gas-stocks and water-stocks, and stocks in banks and horse-railroads, are of very
much less consequence to him then. His heart is free, and he looks for the blessed appearing
of his Lord, who at his coming will take him into his blessed kingdom.

In 2 Peter 1:20, we read: "No prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation."
Some people say: "O yes, the prophecies are all well enough for the priests and doctors, but
not for the rank and file of the church." But Peter says: "The prophecy came not by the will
of man, but holy men spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost," and those men are the very
ones who tell us of the return of our Lord. "The dream is certain and the interpretation thereof
sure," says Daniel. Now we have seen the fulfillment of that prophecy all but the closing part
of it. The kingdoms of Babylon and Medo-Persia and Greece and Rome have all been broken in
pieces, and now it only remains for this stone cut out of the mountain without hands to smite
the image and break it in pieces till it becomes like the dust of the summer threshing floor,
and for this stone to become a great mountain and fill the whole earth.

BUT HOW IS HE GOING TO COME?

We are told how he is going to come. How did he go up? He took his flesh and bones up with
him. "Look at me; handle me; give me something to eat; a spirit hath not flesh and bones as
ye see me have; I am the identical one whom they crucified and laid in the grave. Now I am
risen from the dead and am going up to heaven," Luke 24:39,43. He is gone, say the angels,
but he will come again just as he went. An angel was sent to announce his birth of the virgin;
angels sang of his advent in Bethlehem; an angel told the women of his resurrection; and two
angels told the disciples of his coming again. It is the same testimony in all these cases.

I do not know why people should not like to read the Bible, and find out all about this precious
doctrine of our Lord's return. Some have gone beyond prophecy, and tried to tell the very day
he would come. Perhaps that is one reason why people do not believe this doctrine. He is coming,
we know that; but just when he is coming we do not know; Matt. 24:36, settles that. The angels
do not know; and Christ says that even he does not know, but that is something the Father keeps
to himself. If Christ had said: "I will not come back for 2,000 years," none of his disciples
would have begun to watch for him, but it is the proper attitude of a Christian to be always
looking for his Lord's return. So God does not tell us just when he is to come, but Christ
tells us to watch. In this same chapter we find that he is to come unexpectedly and suddenly.
And again in the forty-fourth verse: "Therefore be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye
think not the Son of Man cometh."

Some people say that means death: but the Word of God does not say it means death. Death is
our enemy, but our Lord hath the keys of death; he has conquered death, hell, and the grave,
and at any moment he may come to set us free from death, and destroy our last enemy for us;
so the proper state for a believer in Christ is waiting and watching for our Lord's return.

In the last chapter of John there is a text that seems to settle this matter. Peter asks the
question about John: "Lord what shall this man do? They did not think that the coming of the
Lord meant death; there was a great difference between these two things in their minds.

CHRIST IS THE PRINCE OF LIFE.

There is no death where he is; death flees at his coming; dead bodies sprang to life when he
touched them or spoke to them. His coming is not death; he is the resurrection and the life,
when he sets up his kingdom there is to be no death, but life forevermore.

There is another mistake, as you will find if you read your Bible carefully. Some people think
that at the coming of Christ everything is to be done up in a few minutes; but I do not so
understand it. The first thing he is to do is to take his Church out of the world. He calls
the Church his bride, and he says he is going to prepare a place for her. We may judge, says
one, what a glorious place it will be from the length of time he is in preparing it, and when
the place is ready he will come and take the church to himself. Wherefore, comfort one another
with these words." That is the comfort of the church. There was a time when I used to mourn
that I should not be alive in the millennium; but now I expect to be in the millennium. Dean
Alford says--and almost everybody bows to him in the matter of interpretation--that he must
insist that this coming of Christ to take his church to himself in the clouds is not the same
event us that to judge the world at the last day. The deliverance of the church is one thing,
judgment is another. Now, I cannot find any place in the Bible where it tells me to wait for
signs of the coming of the millennium, as the return of the Jews, and such like; but it tells
me to look for the coming of the Lord; to watch for it; to be ready at midnight to meet him,
like those five wise virgins. The trump of God may be sounded, for anything we know, before
I finish this sermon--at any rate we are told that he will come as a thief in the night, and
at an hour when many look not for him.

Some of you may shake your heads and say, "Oh, well, that is too deep for the most of us; such
things ought not to be said before these young converts; only the very wisest characters, such
as ministers and professors in the theological seminaries, can understand them." But my friends,
you find that Paul wrote about these things to those young converts among the Thessalonians,
and he tells them to comfort one another with these words. If he is doing that he is ready
for the duties of life, ready for God's work; aye, that makes him feel that he is just ready
to begin to work for God. Still again, in the fifth chapter, "For ye yourselves know perfectly
that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. But ye, brethren, are not in darkness,
that that day should over take you as a thief." He has something to say about this same thing
in every chapter, indeed I have thought this Epistle to the Thessalonians might be called the
gospel of Christ's coming again.

There are three great facts foretold in the word of God: First, that Christ should come; that
has been fulfilled. Second, that the Holy Ghost should come; that was fulfilled at Pentecost,
and the church is able to testify to it by its experience of his saving grace. Third, the return
of our Lord again from heaven--for this we are told to watch and wait "till he come." Look
at that account of the last hours of Christ with his disciples. What does Christ say to them?
If I go away I will send death after you to bring you to me? I will send an angel after you?
Not at all. He says: "I will come again and receive you unto myself." If my wife were in a
foreign country, and I had a beautiful mansion all ready for her, she would a good deal rather
I should come and bring her unto it than to have me send some one else to bring her.

THE CHURCH IS THE LAMB'S WIFE.

He has prepared a mansion for his bride, and he promises for our joy and comfort that he will
come himself and bring us to the place he has been all this while preparing.

My friends it is perfectly safe to take the word of God as we find it. If he tells us to watch,
then watch! If he tells us to pray, then pray! If he tells us he will come again, wait for
him! Let the church bow to the word of God, rather than trying to find out how such things
can be. "Behold, I come quickly," said Christ. "Even so, come, Lord Jesus," should be the prayer
of the church.

Take the account of the words of Christ at the communion table. It seems to me the devil has
covered up the most precious thing about it. But most people seem to think that the Lord's
table is the place for self-examination and repentance, and making good resolutions. Not at
all; you spoil it that way; it is to show forth the Lord's death, and we are to keep it up
till he comes.

Some people say, "I believe Christ will come on the other side of the millennium." Where do
you get it? I cannot find it. The word of God nowhere tells me to watch and wait for the coming
of the millennium, but for the coming of the Lord. I do not find any place where God says the
world is to grow better and better, and that Christ is to have a spiritual reign on earth of
a thousand years. I find that the world is to grow worse and worse, and at length there is
to be a separation. "Two women grinding at a mill, one taken and the other left; two men in
one bed, one taken and the other left," Luke 17:34,36. The church is to be translated out of
the world, we have two examples already, two representatives, as we might say, of Christ's
kingdom, of what is to be done for all his true believers. Enoch is the representative of the
first dispensation, Elijah of the second, and, as a representative of the third dispensation,
we have the Saviour himself, who is entered into the heavens for us, and become the first fruits
of them that slept. We are not to wait for the great white throne judgement, but the glorified
church is set on the throne with Christ, and to help to judge the world.

Now, some of you think this is a new and strange doctrine, and that they who preach it are
speckled birds. But let me tell you that most of the spiritual men in the pulpits of Great
Britain are firm in this faith. Spurgeon preaches it. I have heard Newman Hall say that he
knew no reason why Christ might not come before he got through with his sermon. But in certain
wealthy and fashionable churches, where they have the form of godliness, but deny the power
thereof,--just the state of things which Paul declares shall be in the last days,--this doctrine
is not preached or believed. They do not want sinners to cry out in their meeting, "What must
I do to be saved?" They want intellectual preachers who will cultivate their taste, brilliant
preachers who will rouse their imagination, but they do not want the preaching that has in
it the power of the Holy Ghost. We live in the day of shams in religion. The church is cold
and formal; may God wake us up! And I know of no better way to do it than to get the church
to looking for the return of our Lord.

Some people say, "Oh, you will discourage the young converts if you preach that doctrine."
Well, my friends, that has not been my experience. I have felt like working three times as
hard ever since I came to understand that my Lord was coming back again. I look on this world
as a wrecked vessel. God has given me a life-boat, and said to me, "Moody, save all you can."
God will come in judgment and burn up this world, but the children of God do not belong to
this world; they are in it, but not of it, like a ship in the water. This world is getting
darker and darker; its ruin is coming nearer and nearer; if you have any friends on this wreck
unsaved, you had better lose no time in getting them off.

But some will say: "Do you then make the grace of God a failure?" No, grace is not a failure
but man is. The antediluvian world was a failure; the Jewish work was a failure; man has been
a failure everywhere, when he has had his own way and been left to himself.

CHRIST WILL SAVE HIS CHURCH.

But he will save them finally by taking them out of the world. Now, do not take my word for
it; look this doctrine up in your Bible, and if you find it there, bow down to it and receive
it as the word of God. Go out on the streets of Chicago and ask men about the return of our
Lord, and that is just what they would say: "Ah, yes, the Lord delayeth his coming!"

"Behold, I come quickly," said Christ to John, and the last prayer in the Bible is, "Even so,
come Lord Jesus, come quickly." Were the early Christians disappointed then? No; no man is
disappointed who obeys the voice of God. The world waited for the first coming of the Lord;
waited for 4,000 years, and then he came. He was here only thirty-three years and then he went
away; but he left us a promise that he would come again; and as the world watched and waited
for his first coming and did not watch in vain, so now to them who wait for his appearing shall
he appear a second time unto salvation. Now let the question go round, "Am I ready to meet
the Lord if he comes to-night?" "Be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not the
Son of man cometh."

There is another thought I want to call your attention to, and that is this: Christ will bring
all our friends, with him when he comes. All who have died in the Lord are to be with him when
he comes in the clouds of heaven. "But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand
years were past; this is the first resurrection" (verse 5). That looks as if the church were
to have a thousand years with Christ before the final judgment, when Satan shall be cast out,
and there shall be new heavens and new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness.

Now, I want to give you some texts to study.

    When we eat the Lord's supper we show forth his death, until he
    come. 1 Cor. xi. 26.

    We are using our talents, until he come. Luke xix. 13.

    We are fighting the good fight of faith, until he come. 1 Tim
    vi. 12-14.

    We are enduring tribulation, until he come. 2 Thes. i. 7.

    We are to be patient, until he come. James v. 8.

    We wait for the crown of righteousness, until he come. 2 Tim.
    iv. 8.

    We wait for the crown of glory, until he come. 1 Pet. v. 4.

    We wait for re-union with departed friends, until he come. 1
    Thes. iv. 13-18.

    We wait for Satan to be bound, until he come. Rev. xx. 3.

    And so let us watch and wait till he comes.

    D. L. Moody, who is perhaps the most popular and efficient
    preacher of the gospel of Christ in the world, to-day, is
    evidently fully committed to a belief in the speedy coming of
    our Lord Jesus Christ, to judge the world and establish his
    eternal kingdom. Looking over the published reports of his
    sermons in Great Britain and in this country, since the
    beginning of 1874, I give extracts which go to show in a plain
    light the man's inner love and hope as relates to the last
    things, and his warm, bold, consistent manner of expressing the
    same. Thousands pray, God bless D. L. Moody.

    1. Mr. Moody proclaims that the grand symbols of Daniel's,
    second and seventh chapters, announce four dominant world
    empires, and but four, to cover all centuries of human
    probation.

    2. That these kingdoms are and were Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece
    and Rome.

    3. That these have had their day of earthly supremacy and the
    last has nearly passed away.

    4. That the fifth kingdom of Daniel is God's, to come in its
    order as the fifth, to overthrow all previous kingdoms, to be a
    visible and eternal kingdom, and to be established by Christ in
    person at his second coming.

    5. That the stone cut from the mountain denotes "Christ
    himself," "at his appearing and kingdom," whose advent "is not
    far distant," and for whose advent "the whole creation groans."
    Rom. 8:19-22.

    6. That the last days, described by our Saviour in Matt.
    24:37-39 as resembling the days of Lot and Noah, are already
    here; observing, "I do not think the day is far distant when our
    Lord will return." And again, "just as judgment overtook
    Belshazzar carousing at his feast, so will judgment come
    suddenly and swiftly upon the world revelling in its sins."

       *     *     *     *     *

    The foregoing he preached in the City Hall, Glasgow, March 15th,
    1874, before three thousand people. On the same day he preached
    on "Christ's Second Coming" in the Free church (Pres.), telling
    the churches that every thirtieth verse in the New Testament
    bears on that glorious coming; and says the London Christian,
    "With his usual power he showed what a mighty motive this
    doctrine is to all who are winning souls. He himself had found
    it rousing him to ten-fold more effort to save all that could be
    rescued from the coming wreck."

    In Philadelphia, in a discourse on Daniel's second chapter, he
    said: "This dream has been nearly fulfilled as Daniel
    interpreted it. In the present age the prophecy is nearly
    completed, and the hour of the Lord's second coming is close at
    hand." D. T. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

    PRICE BY MAIL 25 CENTS PER DOZEN, OR $1.25 PER HUNDRED.
    Address all orders to I. C. Wellcome, Yarmouth, Me.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOK & TRACT CATALOGUE.

THE PLAN OF REDEMPTION.

BY I. C. WELLCOME AND C. GOUD.

"The Plan of Redemption is an earnest book, evidently prepared after no little study, and with
a conscientious desire to advance the cause of Christ. The Bible is made the basis of argument;
it contains many fresh and well considered suggestions. The careful reader will find much that
is valuable."--Watchman and Reflector.

"This treatise aims to serve up the gospel scheme in a compact form. It states the plan and
work well, and usually correctly. It refuses to concede primal immortality to Adam, and adopts
the pre-millennial view. It is a good treatise."--Zion's Herald.

"Your book contains sublime ideas and deep thoughts. There are parts of it I like very much"--W.
H. Shailer., D.D.

Neatly bound in Cloth, 460 pages. Price, $1.25. Postpaid by Mail.

THE BEREAN'S CASKET AND REPOSITORY. By I. C. Wellcome. Cloth. Price, $1.50, leather $2.00, by mail.

THE FIVE KINGDOMS, of Daniel 2d and 7th chapters. Illustrated. By I. C. Wellcome. Price, $1.25
per 100: 85 cts. per doz., by mail.

THE NEW WORLD. Showing the hope of the church and what is to be their inheritance. 24 pp. By
I. C. Wellcome. $2.00 per hundred.

LOST OR SAVED? COMFORT IN AFFLICTION. LIVING WATERS. 4 pp. each. By I. C. Wellcome. By mail,
300 for $1.00.

THE GOSPEL HOPE. By a CONGREGATIONALIST. On the prominence and importance of the subject of
the Lord's coming, as shown in the Scriptures. 12 pp. $1.00 per 100; 25 cents per doz., by mail.

THE FAITHFUL WATCHMAN. By Rev. J. R. MACDUFF, D.D., and Rev. J. H. BROOKES, D.D. On the Second
Coming of Christ, the duty to watch. 12 pp. $1.00 per 100; 25 cts. per dozen, by mail.

MEAT IN DUE SEASON. By Sir CHARLES SABINE, London, Eng. A very valuable tract showing that
the church is starving for lack of gospel truth. 8pp. 2 doz. for 25 cts., or 150 for $1.00,
post-paid.

THE PRESENT AGE. By H. BONAR, D.D., London. A thorough expose of the boasted progress of the
present age. 24 pp. By mail, 40 cts., or $2.00 per hundred.

CHRIST'S REIGN REJECTED. By J. A. SEISS, D.D. On the scoffers and sceptics, in and out of the
church, against the promise of Christ's return. An important tract. 4 pp. By mail, 300 for $1.00.

THE PRESENT TIMES FORETOLD. By Rev. G. L. WALKER, Congregationalist. An excellent tract of
four pp. 300 for $1.00.

THE LIGHT OF PROPHECY. By Rev. J. H. BROOKES, D.D., Presbyterian. An important tract on the
Second Coming of Christ, the neglect of the ministry and the value of prophecy. 12 pp. By mail,
$1.00 per 100; 25 cts. per dozen.

BIBLE HOLINESS. By Eld. O. R. Fassett. Price, 5 cents.

THE BIBLE ORDER OF THE MILLENNIUM AND THE SECOND ADVENT OF CHRIST. A thorough statement of
Bible truth. By DANIEL D. BUCK, D.D. (Methodist.) Price 10 cts.

MILLENARIANISM AND MISSIONS. A review of Dr. Huntington's charge against Millenarianism. By
DANIEL D. BUCK, D.D. Price, single, 5 cts. 35 cts. per doz., $2.50 per 100.

RESURRECTION DESTINIES. A very valuable work on the resurrection and destiny of all. By DANIEL
D. BUCK, D.D. Price 15 cts.

    Published by The Scriptural Publishing Society, Yarmouth, Me.
    Address I. C. WELLCOME.

