    UNDER THIS TREE
      WASHINGTON
  FIRST TOOK COMMAND
        OF THE
    AMERICAN ARMY,
    JULY 3D, 1775.

In 1850, it still retained its graceful proportions; its great limbs were intact, and it showed
few traces of age. Within the past twenty-five years, it has been gradually breaking up.

In 1844, its girth, three feet from the ground, where its circumference is least, was twelve
feet two and a half inches. In 1884, at the same point, it measures fourteen feet one inch;
a gain so slight that the rings of annual growth must be difficult to trace--an evidence of
waning vital force. The grand subdivisions of the trunk are all sadly crippled; unsightly bandages
of zinc mask the progress of decay; the symptoms of approaching dissolution are painfully evident,
especially in the winter season. In summer, the remaining vitality expends itself in a host
of branchlets which feather the limbs, and give rise to a false impression of vigor.

Never has tree been cherished with greater care, but its days are numbered. A few years more
or less, and, like Penn's Treaty Elm and the famous Charter Oak, it will be numbered with the
things that were.

THE ELIOT OAK

When John Eliot had become a power among the Indians, with far-reaching sagacity he judged
it best to separate his converts from the whites, and accordingly, after much inquiry and toilsome
search, gathered them into a community at Natick--an old Indian name formerly interpreted as
"a place of hills," but now generally admitted to mean simply "my land." Anticipating the policy
which many believe must eventually be adopted with regard to the entire Indian question, Eliot
made his settlers land-owners, conferred upon them the right to vote and hold office, impressed
upon them the duties and responsibilities of citizenship, and taught them the rudiments of
agriculture and the mechanic arts.

In the summer of 1651, the Indians built a framed edifice, which answered, as is the case to-day
in many small country towns, the double purpose of a schoolroom on week-days, and a sanctuary
on the Sabbath. Professor C.E. Stowe once called that building the first known theological
seminary of New England, and said that for real usefulness it was on a level with, if not above,
any other in the known world.

It is assumed that two oaks, one of the red, and the other of the white, species, of which
the present Eliot Oak is the survivor, were standing near this first Indian church. The early
records of Eliot's labors make no mention of these trees. Adams, in his Life of Eliot, says:
"It would be interesting if we could identify some of the favorite places of the Indians in
this vicinity," but fails to find sufficient data. Bigelow (or Biglow, according to ancient
spelling), in his History of Natick, 1830, states: "There are two oaks near the South Meeting-house,
which have undoubtedly stood there since the days of Eliot." It is greatly to be regretted
that the writer did not state the evidence upon which his conclusion was based.

Bacon, in his History of Natick, 1856, remarks: "The oak standing a few rods to the east of
the South Meeting-house bears every evidence of an age greater than that of the town, and was
probably a witness of Eliot's first visit to the 'place of hills.'" It would be quite possible
to subscribe to this conclusion, while dissenting entirely from the premises. It will be noticed
that Bacon relies upon the appearance of the tree as a proof of its age. His own measurement,
fourteen and a half feet circumference at two feet from the ground, is not necessarily indicative
of more than a century's growth.

The writer upon Natick, in Drake's Historic Middlesex, avoids expressing an opinion. "Tradition
links these trees with the Indian Missionary." For very long flights of time, tradition--as
far as the age of trees is concerned--cannot at all be relied upon; within the narrow limits
involved in the present case, it may be received with caution.

The Red Oak which stood nearly in front of the old Newell Tavern, was the original Eliot Oak.
Mr. Austin Bacon, who is familiar with the early history and legends of Natick, states that
"Mr. Samuel Perry, a man who could look back to 1749, often said that Mr. Peabody, the successor
to Eliot, used to hitch his horse by that tree every Sabbath, because Eliot used to hitch his
there."

This oak was originally very tall; the top was probably broken off in the tremendous September
gale of 1815; as it was reported to be in a mutilated condition in 1820. Time, however, partially
concealed the disaster by means of a vigorous growth of the remaining branches. In 1830, it
measured seventeen feet in circumference two feet from the ground. It had now become a tree
of note, and would probably have monopolized the honors to the exclusion of the present Eliot
Oak, had it not met with an untimely end. The keeper of the tavern in front of which it stood
had the tree cut down in May, 1842. This act occasioned great indignation, and gave rise to
a lawsuit at Framingham, "which was settled by the offenders against public opinion paying
the costs and planting trees in the public green." A cartload of the wood was carried to the
trial, and much of it was taken home by the spectators to make into canes and other relics,

  "The King is dead, long live the King!"

Upon the demise of the old monarch, the title naturally passed to the White Oak, its neighbor,
another of the race of Titans, standing conveniently near, of whose early history very little
is positively known beyond the fact that it is an old tree; and with the title passed the traditions
and reverence that gather about crowned heads.

Mrs. Stowe has given it a new claim to notice, for beneath it, according to Drake's Historic
Middlesex, "Sam Lawson, the good-natured, lazy story-teller, in Oldtown Folks, put his blacksmith's
shop. It was removed when the church was built."

The present Eliot Oak stands east of the Unitarian meeting-house, which church is on or near
the spot where Eliot's first church stood. It measured, January, 1884, seventeen feet in circumference
at the ground; fourteen feet two inches at four feet above. It is a fine old tree, and it is
not improbable--though it is unproven--that it dates back to the first settlement of Natick.

  "Thou ancient oak! whose myriad leaves are loud
  With sounds of unintelligible speech,
  Sounds as of surges on a shingly beach,
  Or multitudinous murmurs of a crowd;
  With some mysterious gift of tongues endowed
  Thou speakest a different dialect to each.
  To me a language that no man can teach,
  Of a lost race long vanished like a cloud,
  For underneath thy shade, in days remote,
  Seated like Abraham at eventide,
  Beneath the oak of Mamre, the unknown
  Apostle of the Indian, Eliot, wrote
  His Bible in a language that hath died.
  And is forgotten save by thee alone."--Longfellow.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIS GREATEST TRIUMPH.

By Henrietta E. Page.

  Yet slept the wearied mæstro, and all around was still,
  Though the sunlight danced on tree-top, on valley, and on hill;
  The distant city's busy hum, just faintly heard afar,
  Served but to lull to deeper rest Euterpe's brilliant star.

  Wilhelmj slept, for over-night his triumphs had been grand,
  He had praised and fêted been by the noblest in the land,
  And rich and poor had vied alike to honor Music's king,
  Making the lofty rafters with the wildest plaudits ring.

  Now, brain and hand aweary, he had fled for peace and rest,
  And he should be disturbed by none, not e'en a royal guest.
  The porter nodded in his chair: I dare not say he slept:
  But sprang upright, as through the door a fairy vision crept.

  A tiny girl with shining eyes, and wavy golden hair,
  Tip-toed along the corridor, and close up to his chair,
  And a bird-like voice sweet questioned, "Wilhelmj, where is he?
  I've brought a little tribute for the great mæstro,--see!"

  Her looped-up dress she opened, displaying to his view
  A mass of brilliant woodland flowers, wet with morning dew;
  Placing his finger on his lip, he pointed out the door;
  She smiled her thanks, and softly went and strewed them on the floor.

  Then like a vision of the morn, with eyes of heaven's own blue,
  She slowly oped the outer door and gently glided through.
  Hours after, when Wilhelmj woke he gazed in mute surprise
  Upon those buds and blossoms fair, with softened, tender eyes.

  They took him back long years agone, when, as a happy child,
  He wandered, too, amid the woods, on summer mornings mild;
  Aye, back to his home and mother; back to his old home nest,
  To the blessed scenes of childhood; back into peace and rest.

  And when he heard the story,--how the child had come and fled,--
  "This is my greatest triumph" (with tears the mæstro said),
  "For no gift of king or princes, no praise could please me more.
  Than this living mat of flowers a child laid at my door."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH IN MASSACHUSETTS.

By Thomas W. Bicknell, LL.D.

The act of banishment which severed Roger Williams from the Massachusetts Colony, in 1635,
was the means of advancing, rather than hindering, the spread of the so-called heresies which
he so bravely advocated. As the persecutions which drove the disciples of Christ from Jerusalem
were the means of extending the cause of Christianity, so the principles of toleration and
of soul-liberty were strengthened by opposition, in the mind of this apostle of freedom of
conscience in the New World. His Welsh birth and Puritan education made him a bold and earnest
advocate of whatever truth his conscience approved, and he went everywhere "preaching the word"
of individual freedom. The sentence of exile could not silence his tongue, nor destroy his
influence. "The divers new and dangerous opinions" which he had "broached and divulged," though
hostile to the notions of the clergy and the authorities of Massachusetts Bay, were at the
same time quite acceptable to a few brave souls, who, like himself, dared the censures, and
even the persecutions, of their brethren, for the sake of liberty of conscience.

The dwellers in old Rehoboth were the nearest white neighbors of Roger Williams and his band
at Providence. The Reverend Samuel Newman was the pastor of the church in this ancient town,
having removed with the first settlers from Weymouth in 1643. Learned, godly, and hospitable,
as he was, he had not reached the "height of that great argument" concerning human freedom;
and while he cherished kindly feelings toward the dwellers at Providence, he evidently feared
the introduction of their sentiments among his people. The jealous care of Newman to preserve
what he conscientiously regarded as the purity of religious faith and polity was not a sufficient
barrier against the teachings of the founder of Rhode Island.

