Among other interesting details I found in the notes, I may mention the following:--High up
the Essequibo they fell in with a nation of anthropophagi, of the Carib tribe. The chief received
the travellers courteously, and placed before them fish with savoury sauce; which being removed,
two human hands were brought in, and a steak of human flesh! The travellers thought that this
might be part of a baboon of a new species; however, they declined the invitation to partake,
saying that, in travelling, they were not allowed to eat animal food. The chief picked the
bones of the hands with excellent appetite, and asked them how they had relished the fruit
and the sauce. They replied that the fish was good and the sauce excellent. To which he answered,
"Human flesh makes the best sauce for any food; these hands and the fish were all dressed together.
You see these Macooshee men, our slaves; we lately captured these people in war, and their
wives we eat from time to time." The travellers were horrified, but concealed their feelings,
and before they retired for the night, they remarked that the Macooshee females were confined
in a large logie, or shed, surrounded with a stockade of bamboos; so that, daily the fathers,
husbands, and brothers of these unfortunate women, saw them brought out, knocked on the head,
and devoured by the inhuman cannibals. Lieutenant Gullifer, who was in bad condition, got into
his hammock and slept soundly; but Mr. Smith, being in excellent case, walked about all night,
fearing that their landlord might take a fancy to a steak of white meat. They afterwards visited
a cave, in which was a pool of water; the Indians requested them not to bathe in this, for
if they did, they would die before the year was out. They laughed at their monitors and bathed;
but sure enough were both "clods of the valley" before the twelvemonth had expired.--Journal
of the Geographical Society, Part 2.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fine Arts.

       *       *       *       *       *

CELEBRATED PAINTERS BORN AT ANTWERP.