The Constitution of the United States guarantees to him every right vouchsafed to any individual
by the most liberal democracy on the face of the earth, but despite the unusual powers of the
Federal Government this agent of the body politic has studiously evaded the duty of safeguarding
the rights of the Negro.

Fortified thus, the Constitution became the rock upon which nationalism was built and by 1833
there were few persons who questioned the supremacy of the Federal Government, as did South
Carolina with its threats of nullification. Because of the beginning of the intense slavery
agitation not long thereafter, however, and the division of the Democratic party into a national
and a proslavery group, the latter advocating State's rights to secure the perpetuation of
slavery, there followed a reaction after the death of John Marshall in 1835, when the court
abandoned to some extent the advanced position of nationalism of this great jurist and drifted
toward the localism long since advocated by Judge Roane of Virginia.

In making the national government the patron of slavery, a new sort of nationalism as a defence
of that institution developed thereafter, however, and culminated in the Dred Scott decision.[4]
To justify the high-handed methods to protect the master's property right in the bondman, these
jurists not only referred to the doctrines of Marshall already set forth above but relied also
upon the decisions of Justice Storey, the nationalist surviving Chief Justice Marshall. They
believed with Storey that a constitution of government founded by the people for themselves
and their posterity and for objects of the most momentous nature--for perpetual union, for
the establishment of justice, for the general welfare and for a perpetuation of the blessings
of liberty--necessarily requires that every interpretation of its powers have a constant reference
to those objects. No interpretation of the words in which those powers are granted can be a
sound one which narrows down every ordinary import so as to defeat those objects.

In the decision of Prigg v. Pennsylvania, when the effort was to carry out the fugitive slave
law,[5] the court, speaking through Justice Storey in 1842, believed that the clause of the
Constitution conferring a right should not be so construed as to make it shadowy or unsubstantial
or leave the citizen without the power adequate for its protection when another construction
equally accordant with the words and the sense in which they were used would enforce and protect
the right granted. The court believed that Congress is not restricted to legislation for the
execution of its expressly granted powers; but for the protection of rights guaranteed by the
Constitution, may employ such means not prohibited, as are necessary and proper, or such as
are appropriate to attain the ends proposed. The court held, moreover, in Prigg v. Pennsylvania,
that "the fundamental principle applicable to all cases of this sort, would seem to be, that
when the end is required the means are given; and when the duty is enjoined, the ability to
perform it is contemplated to exist on the part of the functionaries to whom it is entrusted."
It required very little argument to expose the fallacy in supposing that the national government
had ever meant to rely for the due fulfillment of its duties and the rights which it established,
upon State legislation rather than upon that of the United States, and with greater reason,
when one bears in mind that the execution of power which was to be the same throughout the
nation could not be confided to any State which could not rightfully act beyond its own territorial
limits. All of this power exercised in executing the Fugitive Slave Law of 1793 was implied,
rather than such direct power as that later conferred upon Congress by the Thirteenth Amendment,
which provided that Congress should have power to pass appropriate legislation to enforce it.

As the Supreme Court decided in the case of Prigg v. Pennsylvania that the officers of the
State were not legally obligated to assist in the enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Law of
1793, Congress passed another and a more drastic measure in 1850 which, although unusually
rigid in its terms, was enthusiastically supported by the Supreme Court in upholding the slavery
regime. The Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 deprived the Negro suspect of the right of a trial by
jury to determine the question of his freedom in a competent court of the State. The affidavit
of the person claiming the Negro was sufficient evidence of ownership. This law made it the
duty of marshals and of the United States courts to obey and execute all warrants and precepts
issued under the provisions of this act. It imposed a penalty of a fine and imprisonment upon
any person knowingly hindering the arrest of a fugitive or attempting to rescue one from custody
or harboring one or aiding one to escape. The writ of habeas corpus was denied to the reclaimed
Negro and the act was ex post facto. In short, the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 committed the
whole country to the task of the protection of slave property and made slavery a national matter
with which every citizen in the country had to be concerned. In the interest of the property
right of the master, moreover, the Supreme Court by the Dred Scott Decision[6] upheld this
measure, feeling that there was in Congress adequate power expressly given and implied to enforce
this regulation in spite of any local opposition that there might develop against the government
acting upon individuals to carry out this police regulation. The Negro was not a citizen and
in his non-political status could not sue in a Federal court, which for the same reason must
disclaim jurisdiction in a case in which the Negro was a party.

In the decision of Ableman v. Booth[6a] the court in construing the provision for the return
of slaves according to the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 further recognized the master's right
of property in his bondman, the right of assisting and recovering him regardless of any State
law or regulation or local custom to the contrary whatsoever. This tribunal then believed that
the right of the master to have his fugitive slave delivered up on the claim, being guaranteed
by the Constitution, the implication was that the national government was clothed with proper
authority and functions to enforce it. These were reversed during the Civil War by the nation
rising in arms against the institution of slavery which it had economically outgrown and the
court in the support of the Federal Government exercising its unusual powers in effecting the
political and social upheaval resulting in the emancipation of the slaves, again became decidedly
national in its decisions.

Out of Rebellion the Negro emerged a free man endowed by the State and Federal Government with
all the privileges and immunities of a citizen in accordance with the will of the majority
of the American people, as expressed in the Civil Rights Bill and in the ratification of the
Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. A decidedly militant minority, however, willing
to grant the Negro freedom of body but unwilling to grant him political or civil rights, bore
it grievously that the race had been so suddenly elevated and soon thereafter organized a party
of reaction to reduce the freedmen to the position of the free people of color, who before
the Civil War had no rights but that of exemption from involuntary servitude. During the Reconstruction
period when the Negroes figured conspicuously in the rebuilding of the Southern States they
temporarily enjoyed the rights guaranteed them by the Constitution. As there set in a reaction
against the support of the reconstructed governments as administered by corrupt southerners
and interlopers, the support which the United States Government had given this first effort
in America toward actual democracy was withdrawn and the undoing of the Negro as a citizen
was easily effected throughout the South by general intimidation and organized mobs known as
the Ku-Klux Klan.

One of the first rights denied the Negro by these successful reactionaries was the unrestricted
use of common carriers. Standing upon its former record, however, the court had sufficient
precedents to continue as the impartial interpreter of the laws guaranteeing all persons civil
and political equality. In New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants Bank[7] the court
speaking through Justice Nelson took high ground in the defence of the free and unrestricted
use of common carriers, a right frequently denied the Negroes after the Civil War. This doctrine
was upheld in Munn v. Illinois[8] and in Olcott v. Supervisors[9] when it was decided that
railroads are public highways established under the authority of the State for the public use;
and that they are none the less public highways, because controlled and owned by private corporations;
that it is a part of the function of government to make and maintain highways for the convenience
of the public; that no matter who is agent or what is the agency, the function performed is
that of the State; that although the owners may be private companies, they may be compelled
to permit the public to use these works in the manner in which they can be used; "Upon these
grounds alone," continues the opinion, "have courts sustained the investiture of railroad corporations
with the States right of eminent domain, or the right of municipal corporations, under legislative
authority, to assess, levy, and collect taxes to aid in the construction of railroads."[10]
Jurists in this country and in England had also held that inasmuch as the innkeeper is engaged
in a quasi public employment, the law gives him special privileges and he is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities to the public. The public nature of his employment would then forbid
him from discriminating against any person asking admission, on account of the race or color
of that person.[11]

In the Slaughter House Cases[12] and Strauder v. West Virginia[13] the United States Supreme
Court held that since slavery was the moving or principal cause of the adoption of the Thirteenth
Amendment, and since that institution rested wholly upon the inferiority, as a race, of those
held in bondage, their freedom necessarily involved immunity from, and protection against all
discrimination against them, because of their race in respect of such civil rights as belong
to freemen of other races. Congress, therefore, under its present express power to enforce
that amendment by appropriate legislation, might enact laws to protect that people against
deprivation, because of their race, of any civil rights granted to other freemen in the same
States; and such legislation may be of a direct and primary character, operating upon States,
their officers and agents, and also upon, at least, such individuals and corporations as exercise
public functions and wield power and authority under the State.

The State was conceded the power to regulate rates, fares of passengers and freight, and upon
these grounds it might regulate the entire management of railroads in matters affecting the
convenience and safety of the public, such as regulating speed, compelling stops of prescribed
length at stations and prohibiting discriminations and favoritisms. The position taken here
is that these corporations are actual agents of the State and what the State permits them to
do is an act of the State. The Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments made the Negro race a part
of the public and entitled to share in the control and use of public utilities. Any restriction
in the use of these utilities would deprive the race of its liberty; for "personal liberty
consists," says Blackstone, "in the power of locomotion of changing situation, of removing
one's person to whatever places one's own inclination may direct, without restraint, unless
by due course of law."

In several decisions the court had held that the purpose of the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments
was to raise the Negro race from that condition of inferiority and servitude in which most
of them had previously stood, into perfect equality of civil rights with all other persons
within the jurisdiction of the United States. In Strauder v. West Virginia,[14] and Neal v.
Delaware,[15] the court had taken the position that exemption from race discrimination is a
right of a citizen of the United States. Negroes charged that members of their race had been
excluded from a jury because of their color. The court was then of the opinion that such action
contravened the Constitution and, as was held in the case of Prigg v. Pennsylvania, declared
it essential to the national supremacy that the agent of the body politic should have the power
to enforce and protect any right granted by the Constitution.

In Ex Parte Virginia the position was the same. In this case one Cole, a county judge, was
charged by the laws of Virginia with the duty of selecting grand and petit jurors. The laws
of that State did not permit him in the performance of that duty to make any distinction as
to race. He was indicted in a Federal court under the act of 1875, for making such discriminations.
The attorney-general of Virginia contended that the State had done its duty, and had not authorized
or directed that county judge to do what he was charged with having done; that the State had
not denied to the Negro race the equal protection of the laws; and that consequently the act
of Cole must be deemed his individual act, in contravention of the will of the State. Plausible
as this argument was, it failed to convince the court; and after emphasizing the fact that
the Fourteenth Amendment had reference to the acts of the political body denominated a State,
"by whatever instruments or in whatever modes that action may be taken" and that a State acts
by its legislative, executive and judicial authorities, and can act in no other way, it said:

"The constitutional provision, therefore, must mean that no agency of the State, or of the
officers or agents by whom its powers are exerted, shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws. Whoever, by virtue of public position under a State government,
deprives another of property, life, or liberty without due process of law, or denies or takes
away the equal protection of the laws, violates the constitutional inhibitions; and, as he
acts under the name and for the State, and is clothed with the State power, his act is that
of the State. This must be so, or the constitutional prohibition has no meaning. Then the State
has clothed one of its agents with power to annul or evade it. But the constitutional amendment
was ordained for a purpose. It was to secure equal rights to all persons, and, to insure to
all persons the enjoyment of such rights, power was given to Congress to enforce its provisions
by appropriate legislation. Such legislation must act upon persons, not upon the abstract thing
denominated as State but upon the persons who are the agents of the State, in the denial of
the rights which were intended to be secured."[16]

The Supreme Court of the United States soon fell under reactionary influence and gave its judicial
sanction to all repression necessary to establish permanently the reactionaries in the South
and to deprive the Negroes of their political and civil rights. It will be interesting, therefore,
to show exactly how far the United States Supreme Court, supposed to be an impartial tribunal
and generally held in such high esteem and treated with such reverential fear, has been guilty
of inconsistency and sophistry in its effort to support this autocracy in defiance of the well
established principles of interpretation for construing the constitutions and laws of States
and in utter disregard of the supremacy of Congress in the exercise of the powers granted the
government by the Constitution of the United States.

THE RIGHT OF LOCOMOTION

In 1875 Congress passed a measure commonly known as the Civil Rights Bill, which was supplementary
of other measures of the same sort, the first being enacted April 9, 1866.[17] and reenacted
with some modifications in sections 16, 17, and 18 of the Enforcement Act passed August 31,
1870.[18] The intention of the statesmen advocating these measures was to secure to the freedmen
the enjoyment of every right guaranteed all other citizens. The important sections of the Civil
Rights Bill of 1875 follow:

     Section 1.

     Section 2. That any person who shall violate the foregoing
     section by denying to any citizen, except for reasons by law
     applicable to citizens of every race and color, and regardless of
     any previous condition of servitude, the full enjoyment of any of
     the accommodations, advantages, facilities or privileges in said
     section enumerated, or by aiding or inciting such denial, shall
     for every such offense forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred
     dollars to the person aggrieved thereby, to be recovered in an
     action of debt, with full costs; and shall also, for every such
     offense be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction
     therefor, shall be fined not less than five hundred nor more than
     one thousand dollars, or shall be imprisoned not less than thirty
     days nor more than one year. Provided, That all persons may
     elect to sue for the penalties aforesaid, or to proceed under
     their rights at common law and by State statutes; and having so
     elected to proceed in the one mode or the other, their right to
     proceed in the other jurisdiction shall be barred: But this
     provision shall not apply to criminal proceedings, either under
     this act or the criminal law of any State: and provided further,
     That a judgment for the penalty in favor of the party aggrieved,
     or a judgment upon an indictment, shall be a bar to either
     prosecution respectively.

Although the Negroes by this measure were guaranteed the rights which were granted by the Constitution
to every citizen of the United States, the members of the Supreme Court of the United States
instead of upholding the laws of the nation in accordance with their oaths undertook to hedge
around and to explain away the articles of the Constitution in such a way as to legislate rather
than interpret the laws according to the intent of the framers of the Constitution. Subjected
to all sorts of discriminations at the polls, in the courts, in inns, in hotels, on street
cars, and on railroads, Negroes had sued for redress of their grievances and the persons thus
called upon to respond in the courts attacked the constitutionality of the Civil Rights Bill,
and the War Amendments, contending that they encroached upon the police power of the States.

The first of these Civil Rights Cases were: United States v. Stanley, United States v. Ryan,
United States v. Nichols, United States v. Singleton, and Robinson and wife v. Memphis and
Charleston R. R. Co. Two of these cases, those against Stanley and Nichols, were indictments
for denying to persons of color the accommodations of an inn or hotel; two of them, those against
Ryan and Singleton, were, one on information, the other on indictments, for denying to individuals
the privileges and accommodations of a theatre. The information against Ryan was for refusing
a colored person a seat in the dress circle of McGuire's Theatre in San Francisco; and the
indictment against Singleton was for denying to another person, whose color was not stated,
the full enjoyment of the accommodation of the theatre known as the Grand Opera House in New York.

The argument to show the culpability of the State was that in becoming a business man or a
corporation established by sanction of and protected by the State, such a person or persons
discriminating against a citizen of color no longer acted in a private but in a public capacity
and in so doing affected an interest in violation of the State by controlling, as in the case
of slavery, an individual's power of locomotion. The Civil Rights Bill was appropriate legislation
as defined by the Constitution to forbid any action by private persons which "in the light
of our history may reasonably be apprehended to tend, on account of its being incidental to
quasi public occupations, to create an institution." The act of 1875 in prohibiting persons
from violating the rights of other persons to the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations
of inns and public conveyances, for any reason turning merely upon the race or color of the
latter, partook of the specific character of certain contemporaneous, solemn and effective
action by the United States to which it was a sequel and is constitutional.

Giving the opinion of the court in Civil Rights Cases,[19] Mr. Justice Bradley said that the
Fourteenth Amendment on which this act of 1875 rested for its authority, if it had any authority
at all, does not invest Congress to legislate within the domain of State legislation or in
State action of the kind referred to in the Civil Rights Act. He believed that the Fourteenth
Amendment does not authorize Congress to create a code of municipal law for the regulation
of private rights. He conceded that positive rights and privileges are secured by the Fourteenth
Amendment but only by prohibition against State laws and State proceedings affecting those
rights.[20] "Until some State law has passed," he said, "or some State action through its officers
or agents has been taken, adverse to the rights of citizens sought to be protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment, no legislation of the United States under said amendment, nor any proceeding under
such legislation, can be called into activity; for the prohibitions of the amendment are against
State laws and acts under State authority." Otherwise Congress would take the place of State
legislatures and supersede them and regulate all private rights between man and man. Civil
rights such as are guaranteed by the Constitution against State aggression, thought Justice
Bradley, cannot be impaired by the wrongful acts of individuals unsupported by State authority
in the shape of laws, customs, or executive proceedings, for those are private wrongs.

