Meanwhile, she was again led to interest herself greatly in foreign politics, though in truth
she hardly regarded any thing in which her brother's empire was interested as foreign, so deep
was her conviction that the interests of France and Austria were identical and inseparable,
and so unwearied were her endeavors to make her husband's ministers see all questions that
concerned her brother's dominions with her eyes. Throughout the latter part of 1784, and the
earlier months of 1785, Joseph, who was always restless in his ambition, was full of schemes
of aggrandizement which he desired to carry out through the favor and co-operation of France.
At one moment he projected obtaining Bavaria in exchange for the Netherlands, at another he
aimed at procuring the opening of the Scheldt by threatening the Dutch with instant war if
they resisted. But, as all these schemes were eventually abandoned, they would hardly require
to be mentioned here, were it not for the proofs which his correspondence with his sister affords
of his increasing esteem for her capacity, and his evident conviction of her growing influence
in the French Government, and for the light which some of her answers to his letters throw
on her relations with the ministers, which had perhaps some share in increasing the annoyance
that the affair of "the necklace," as will be presently mentioned, caused her before the end
of the year. Her difficulties with Louis himself were the same as she had already described
to her brother on former occasions. "It was impossible to induce him to take a strong line,
so as to speak resolutely to M. de Vergennes in her presence, and equally so to prevent his
changing his mind afterward;[5]" while she distrusted the good faith of the minister so much
that, though she resolved to speak to him strongly on the subject, she would not do so till
she could discuss the question with him "in the presence of the king, that he might not be
able to disfigure or to exaggerate what she said." Yet she did not always find her precautions
effectual. Louis's judgment was always at the mercy of the last speaker. She assured her brother
that "he had abundant reason to be contented with the king's personal feelings on the subject.
When he received the emperor's letter, he spoke to her about it in a way that delighted her.
He regarded Joseph's demands as just, and his motives as most reasonable. Yet--she blushed
to own it even to her brother--after he had seen his minister, his tone was no longer the same;
he was embarrassed; he shunned the subject with her, and often found some new objection to
weaken the effect of his previous admissions."

At one time she even feared a rupture between the two countries. Vergennes was urging the king
to send an army of observation to the frontier; and, if it were sent, the proximity of such
a force to the Austrian troops in the Netherlands would, to her apprehension, be full of danger.
There was sound political acuteness in her remark that the dispatch of an army of observation
was not "in itself a declaration of war, but that when two armies are so near to one another
an order to advance is very soon executed;" and, with a shrewd perception of the argument which
was most likely to influence the humane disposition of her husband, she pressed upon him that
"the delays and shuffling of his ministers might very probably involve him in war, in spite
of his own intentions." However, eventually the clouds which had caused her anxiety were dissipated;
the mediation of France had even some share in leading to a conclusion of these disputes in
a manner in which Joseph himself acquiesced; and the good understanding between the two crowns,
on which, as Marie Antoinette often declared, her happiness greatly depended, was preserved,
or, as she hoped, even strengthened, by the result of these negotiations.

But on one occasion of real moment to the personal comfort and credit of the queen, Louis behaved
with a clear good sense, and, what was equally important, with a firmness which she gratefully
acknowledged,[6] and contrasted remarkably with the pusillanimous advice that had been given
by more than one of the ministers. That the affair in which he exhibited these qualities should
for a moment have been regarded as one of political importance, is another testimony to the
diseased state of the public mind at the time; and that it should have been possible so to
use it as to attach the slightest degree of discredit to the queen, is a proof as strange as
melancholy how greatly the secret intrigues of the basest cabal that ever disgraced a court
had succeeded in undermining her reputation, and poisoning the very hearts of the people against
her.[7]

Boehmer, the court jeweler, had collected a large number of diamonds of unusual size and brilliancy,
which he had formed into a necklace, in the hope of selling it to the queen, whose fancy for
such jewels had some years before been very great. She had at one time spent sums on diamond
ornaments, large enough to provoke warm remonstrances from her mother, though certainly not
excessive for her rank; and Louis, knowing her partiality for them, had more than once made
her costly gifts of the kind. But her taste for them had cooled; her children now engrossed
far more of her attention than her dress, and she was keenly alive to the distress which still
prevailed in many parts of the kingdom, and to the embarrassments of the revenue, which the
ingenuity of Calonne did not relieve half so rapidly as his rashness encumbered it. Accordingly,
her reply to Boehmer's application that she would purchase his necklace was that her jewel-case
was sufficiently full, and that she had almost given up wearing diamonds; and that if such
a sum as he asked, which was nearly seventy thousand pounds, were available, she should greatly
prefer its being spent on a ship for the nation, to replace the Ville de Paris, whose loss
still rankled in her breast.

The king, who thought that she must secretly wish for a jewel of such unequalled splendor,
offered to make her a present of the necklace, but she adhered to her refusal. Boehmer was
greatly disappointed; he had exhausted his resources and his credit in collecting the stones
in the hope of making a grand profit, and declared loudly to his patrons that he should be
ruined if the queen could not be induced to change her mind. His complaints were so unrestrained
that they reached the ears of those who saw in his despair a possibility of enriching themselves
at his expense. There was in Paris at the time a Countess de la Mothe, who, as claiming descent
from a natural son of Henri II., had added Valois to her name, and had her claim to royal birth
so far allowed that, as she was in very destitute circumstances, she had obtained a small pension
from the crown. Her pension and her pretensions had perhaps united to procure her the hand
of the Count de la Mothe, who had for some time been discreditably known as one of the most
worthless and dangerous adventurers who infested the capital. But her marriage had been no
restraint on a life of unconcealed profligacy, and among her lovers she reckoned the Cardinal
de Rohan, who, as we have already seen, was as little scrupulous or decent as herself.

As, however, the cardinal's extravagance had left him with little means of supplying her necessities,
Madame La Mothe conceived the idea of swindling Boehmer out of his necklace, and of making
de Rohan an accomplice in the fraud. The one thing which in the transaction is difficult to
determine is whether the cardinal was her willing and conscious assistant, or her dupe. That
his capacity was of the very lowest order was notorious, but he was a man who had been bred
in courts; he knew the manner in which princes transacted their business, and in which queens
signed their names. He had long been acquainted with Marie Antoinette's figure and gestures
and voice; while, unhappily, there was nothing in his character which was incompatible with
his becoming an accomplice in any act of baseness.

What followed was a drama of surprises. It was with as much astonishment as indignation that
Marie Antoinette learned that Boehmer believed that she had secretly bought the necklace, which
openly and formally she had refused, and that he was looking to her for the payment of its
price. And about a fortnight later it was like a thunder-clap that a summons came upon the
Cardinal de Rohan, who had just been performing mass before the king and queen, to appear before
them in Louis's private cabinet, and that he found himself subjected to an examination by Louis
himself, who demanded of him with great indignation an explanation of the circumstances that
had led him to represent himself to Boehmer as authorized to buy a necklace for the queen.
Terrified and confused, he gave an explanation which was half a confession; but which was too
complicated to be thoroughly intelligible. He was ordered to retire into the next room and
write out his statement. His written narrative proved more obscure than his spoken words. In
spite of his prayers that he might be spared the degradation of being arrested while still
clad in his pontifical habits, he was at once sent to the Bastile. A day or two afterward Madame
La Mothe was apprehended in the provinces, and Louis directed that a prosecution should be
instantly commenced against all who had been concerned in the transaction.

For the queen's name had been forged. The cardinal did not deny that he had represented himself
to Boehmer as employed by her for the purchase of the jewel which, as he said, she secretly
coveted, and for the payment of its price by installments. But, as his justification, he produced
a letter desiring him to undertake the business, and signed "Marie Antoinette de France." He
declared that he had never suspected the genuineness of this letter, though it was notorious
that such an addition to their Christian names was used by none but the sons and daughters
of the reigning sovereign, and never by a queen. And eventually his whole story was found to
be that Madame La Mothe had induced him to believe that she was in the queen's confidence,
and also that the queen coveted the necklace and was resolved to obtain it; but that she was
unable at once to pay for it; and that, being desirous to make amends to the cardinal for the
neglect with which she had hitherto treated him, she had resolved on employing him to make
arrangements with Boehmer for the instant delivery of the ornament, and for her payment of
the price by installments.

This was strange enough to have excited the suspicions of most men. What followed was stranger
still. Not content with forging the queen's handwriting, Madame La Mothe had even, if one may
say so, forged the queen herself. She had assured the cardinal that Marie Antoinette had consented
to grant him a secret interview; and at midnight, in the gardens of Versailles, had introduced
him to a woman of notoriously bad character named Oliva, who in height resembled the queen,
and who, in a conference of half a minute, gave him a letter and a rose with the words, "You
know what this means." She had hardly uttered the words when Madame La Mothe interrupted the
pair with the warning the Countesses of Provence and Artois were approaching. The mock queen
retired in haste. The cardinal pressed the rose to his heart; acted on the letter; and protested
that he had never doubted that he had seen the queen, and had been acting on her commands in
obtaining the necklace from Boehmer and delivering it to Madame La Mothe, though he now acknowledged
that he had been imposed upon, and offered to pay the jeweler for his property.

There were not wanting those who advised that this offer should be accepted, and that the matter
should be hushed up, rather than that a prince of the Church should be publicly disgraced by
a prosecution for fraud. But Louis and Marie Antoinette both rightly judged that their duty
as sovereigns of the kingdom forbade them to compromise justice by screening dishonesty. It
was but two years before that a great noble, the most eloquent of all French orators, had singled
out Marie Antoinette's love of justice as one of her most conspicuous, as it was one of her
most noble, qualities; and the words deserve especially to be remembered from the melancholy
contrast which his subsequent conduct presents to the voluntary tribute which he now paid to
her excellence. In 1783, the young Count de Mirabeau, pleading for the restitution of his conjugal
rights, put the question to the judges at Aix before whom he was arguing, "Which of you, if
he desired to consecrate a living personification of justice, and to embellish it with all
the charms of beauty, would not set up the august image of our queen?"

She and her husband might well have felt they were bound to act up to such a eulogy. Some of
their advisers also, and especially the Baron de Breteuil and the Abbé de Yermond, fortified
their decision with their advice; being, in truth, greatly influenced by a reason which they
forbore to mention, namely, by their suspicion that the untiring malice of the queen's enemies
would not have failed to represent that the suppression of the slightest particle of the truth
could only have been dictated by a guilty consciousness which felt that it could not bear the
light; and that the queen had forborne to bring the cardinal into court solely because she
knew that he was in a situation to prove facts which would deservedly damage her reputation.

It is impossible to doubt that the resolution which was adopted was the only one consistent
with either propriety or common sense. However plausible may be the arguments which in this
or that case may be adduced for concealment, the common instinct of mankind, which rarely errs
in such matters, always conceives a suspicion that it is dictated by secret and discreditable
motives; and that he who screens manifest guilt from exposure and punishment makes himself
an accomplice in the wrong-doing, if he was not so before. But, though Louis judged rightly
for his own and his queen's character in bringing those who were guilty of forgery and robbery
to a public trial, the result inflicted an irremediable wound on one great institution, furnishing
an additional proof how incurably rotten the whole system of the Government must have been,
when corruption without shame or disguise was allowed to sway the highest judicial tribunal
in the country.

The Parliament of Paris, constantly endeavoring throughout its whole history to encroach upon
the royal prerogative, had always founded its pretensions on its purity and disinterestedness.
Since its re-establishment at the beginning of the present reign, it had advanced its claim
to the possession of those virtues more loudly than ever; yet now, in the very first case which
came before it in which a noble of the highest rank was concerned, it was made apparent not
only that it was wholly destitute of every quality which ought to belong to a judicial bench,
of a regard for truth and justice, and even of a knowledge of the law; but that no one gave
it credit for them, and that every one regarded the decision to be given as one which would
depend, not on the merits of the case, but on the interest which the culprits might be able
to make with the judges.[8]

The trial took place in May of the following year. We need not enter into its details; the
denials, the admissions, the mutual recriminations of the persons accused. In the fate of the
La Mothes and Mademoiselle Oliva no one professed to be concerned; but the friends of the cardinal
were numerous, rich, and powerful; and for months had been and still were indefatigable in
his cause. Some days before the trial, the attorney- general had become aware that nearly the
whole of the Parliament had been gained by them; he even furnished the queen with a list of
the names of those judges who had promised their verdict beforehand, and of the means by which
they had been won over. And on the decisive morning the cardinal and his friends made a theatrical
display which was evidently intended to overawe those members of the Parliament who were yet
unconvinced, and to enlist the sympathies of the public in general. He himself appeared at
the bar in a long violet cloak, the mourning robe of cardinals; and all the passages leading
to the hall of justice were lined by his partisans, also in deep mourning; and they were not
solely his own relations, the nobles of the different branches of his family, the Soubises,
the Rohans, the Guimenées; but though, as princes of the blood, the Condés were nearly allied
to the king and queen, they also were not ashamed to swell the company assembled, and to solicit
the judges as they passed into the court to disregard alike justice and their own oaths, and
to acquit the cardinal, whatever the evidence might be which had been, or was to be, produced
against him. They were only asking what they had already assured themselves of obtaining. The
queen's signature was indeed declared to be a forgery, and the La Mothes, Mademoiselle Oliva,
and a man named Retaux de Villette, who had been the actual writer of the forged letters, were
convicted and sentenced to the punishment which the counsel for the crown had demanded. But
the cardinal was acquitted, as well as a notorious juggler and impostor of the day, called
Cagliostro, who had apparently been so entirely unconnected with the transaction that it is
not easy to see how he became included in the prosecution; and permission was given to the
cardinal to make his acquittal public in any manner and to any extent which he might desire.[9]

The subsequent history of the La Mothes was singular and characteristic. The countess, who
had been sentenced to be flogged, branded, and imprisoned for life, after a time contrived,
it is believed by the aid of some of the Rohan family, to escape from prison. She fled to London,
where for some time she and her husband lived on the proceeds of the necklace, which they had
broken up and sold piecemeal to jewelers in London and other cities; but they were soon reduced
to great distress. After the Revolution had broken out in Paris, they tried to make money by
publishing libels on the queen, in which they are believed to have obtained the aid of some
who in former times had been under great personal obligations to Marie Antoinette. But the
scheme failed: they were overwhelmed with debt; writs were issued against them, and in trying
to escape from the sheriff's officers, the countess fell from a window at the top of a house,
and received injuries which proved fatal.

A most accomplished writer of the present day, who has devoted much care and ability to the
examination of the case, has pronounced an opinion that the cardinal was innocent of dishonesty,[10]
and limits his offense to that of insulting the queen by the mere suspicion that she could
place her confidence in such an unworthy agent as Madame La Mothe, or that he himself could
be allowed to recover her favor by such means as he had employed. But his absolute ignorance
of the countess's schemes is not entirely consistent with the admitted fact that, when he was
arrested, his first act was to send orders to his secretary to burn all the letters which he
had received from her on the subject; and unquestionably neither Louis nor Marie Antoinette
doubted his full complicity in the conspiracy. Louis at once deprived him of his office of
grand almoner, and banished him from the court, declaring that "he knew too well the usages
of the court to have believed that Madame La Mothe had really been admitted to the queen's
presence and intrusted with such a commission.[11]" And Marie Antoinette gave open expression
to her indignation at the acquittal "of an intriguer who had sought to ruin her, or to procure
money for himself, by abusing her name and forging her signature," adding, with undeniable
truth, that still more to be pitied than herself was a "nation which had for its supreme tribunal
a body of men who consulted nothing but their passions; and of whom some were full of corruption,
and others were inspired with a boldness which always vented itself in opposition to those
who were clothed with lawful authority.[12]"

But her magnanimity and her sincere affection for the whole people were never more manifest
than now even in her first moments of indignation. Even while writing to Madame de Polignac
that she is "bathed in tears of grief and despair," and that she can "hope for nothing good
when perverseness is so busy in seeking means to chill her very soul," she yet adds that "she
shall triumph over her enemies by doing more good than ever, and that it will be easier for
them to afflict her than to drive her to avenging herself on them.[13]" And she uses the same
language to her sister Christine, even while expressing still more strongly her indignation
at being "sacrificed to a perjured priest and a shameless intriguer." She demands her sister's
"pity, as one who had never deserved such injurious treatment;[14] but who had only recollected
that she was the daughter of Maria Teresa--to fulfill her mother's exhortations, always to
show herself French to the very bottom of her heart;" but she concludes by repeating the declaration
that "nothing shall tempt her to any conduct unworthy of herself, and that the only revenge
that she will take shall he to redouble her acts of kindness."

It is pleasing to be able to close so odious a subject by the statement that the disgrace which
the cardinal had thus brought upon himself may be supposed in some respects to have served
as a lesson to him, and that his conduct in the latter days of his life was such as to do no
discredit to the noble race from which he sprung.

A great part of his diocese as Bishop of Strasburg lay on the German side of the Rhine; and
thither,[15] when the French Revolution began to assume the blood-thirsty character which has
made it a warning to all future ages, he was fortunate to escape in safety from the fury of
the assassins who ruled France. And though he was no longer rich, his less fortunate countrymen,
and especially his clerical brethren, found in him a liberal protector and supporter.[16] He
even levied a body of troops to re-enforce the royalist army. But, when the First Consul wrung
from the Pope a concordat of which he disapproved, he resigned his bishopric, and shortly afterward
died at Ettenheim,[17] where, had he remained but a short time longer, he, like the Duke d'Enghien,
might have found that a residence in a foreign land was no protection against the ever-suspicious
enmity of Bonaparte.

It was owing to Marie Antoinette's influence that Louis himself in the following year began
to enter on a line of conduct which, if circumstances had not prevented him from persevering
in it, might have tended, more perhaps than any thing else that he could have done, to make
him also popular with the main body of the people. The emperor, while at Versailles, had strongly
pressed upon him that it was his duty, as king of the nation, to make himself personally acquainted
with every part of his kingdom, to visit the agricultural districts, the manufacturing towns,
the fortresses, arsenals, and harbors of the country. Joseph himself had practiced what he
preached. No corner of his dominions was unknown to him; and it is plain that there can be
no nation which must not be benefited by its sovereign thus obtaining a personal knowledge
of all the various interests and resources of his subjects. But such personal investigations
were not yet understood to be a part of a monarch's duties. Louis's contemporary, our own sovereign,
George III., than whom, if rectitude of intention and benevolence of heart be the principal
standards by which princes should be judged, no one ever better deserved to be called the father
of his country, scarcely ever went a hundred miles from Windsor, and never once visited even
those Midland Counties which before the end of his reign had begun to give undeniable tokens
of the contribution which their industry was to furnish to the growing greatness of his empire;
and the last two kings of France, though in the course of their long reigns they had once or
twice visited their armies while waging war on the Flemish or German frontier, had never seen
their western or southern provinces.

But now Marie Antoinette suggested to her husband that it was time that he should extend his
travels, which, except when he had gone to Rheims for his coronation, had never yet carried
him beyond Compiègne in one direction and Fontainebleau in another; and, as of all the departments
of Government, that which was concerned with the marine of the nation interested her most (we
fear that she was secretly looking forward to a renewal of war with England), she persuaded
him to select for the object of his first visit the fort of Cherbourg in Normandy, where those
great works had been recently begun which have since been constantly augmented and improved,
till they have made it a worthy rival to our own harbors on the opposite side of the Channel.
He was received in all the towns through which he passed with real joy. The Normans had never
seen their king since Henry IV. had made their province his battle-field; and the queen, who
would gladly have accompanied him, had it not been that such a journey undertaken by both would
have resembled a state procession, and therefore have been tedious and comparatively useless,
exulted in the reception which he had met with, and began to plan other expeditions of the
same kind for him, feeling assured that his presence would be equally welcomed in other provinces--at
Bourdeaux, at Lyons, or at Toulon. And a series of such visits would undoubtedly have been
calculated to strengthen the attachment of the people everywhere to the royal authority; which,
already, to some far-seeing judges, seemed likely soon to need all the re-enforcement which
it could obtain in any quarter.

In the summer of 1786 she had a visit from her sister Christine, the Princess of Teschen, who,
with her husband, had been joint governor of Hungary, and since the death of her uncle, Charles
of Lorraine, had been removed to the Netherlands. She had never seen her sister since her own
marriage, and the month which they spent together at Versailles may be almost described as
the last month of perfect enjoyment that Marie Antoinette ever knew; for troubles were thickening
fast around the Government, and were being taken wicked advantage of by her enemies, at the
head of whom the Duc d'Orléans now began openly to range himself. He was a man notorious, as
has been already seen, for every kind of infamy; and though he well knew the disapproval with
which Marie Antoinette regarded his way of life and his character, it is believed that he had
had the insolence to approach her with the language of gallantry; that he had been rejected
with merited indignation; and that he ever afterward regarded her noble disdain as a provocation
which it should be the chief object of his life to revenge. In fact, on one occasion he did
not scruple to avow his resentment at the way in which, as he said, she had treated him; though
he did not mention the reason.[1]

Calumny was the only weapon which could be employed against her; but in that he and his partisans
had long been adept. Every old libel and pretext for detraction was diligently revived. The
old nickname of "The Austrian" was repeated with pertinacity as spiteful as causeless; even
the king's aunts lending their aid to swell the clamor on that ground, and often saying, with
all the malice of their inveterate jealousy, that it was not to be expected that she should
have the same feelings as their father or Louis XIV., since she was not of their blood, though
it was plain that the same remark would have applied to every Queen of France since Anne of
Brittany. Even the embarrassments of the revenue were imputed to her; and she, who had curtailed
her private expenses, even those which seemed almost necessary to her position, that she might
minister more largely to the necessities of the poor--who had declined to buy jewels that the
money might be applied to the service of the State--was now held up to the populace as being
by her extravagance the prime cause of the national distress. Pamphlets and caricatures gave
her a new nickname of "Madame Deficit;" and such an impression to her disfavor was thus made
on the minds of the lower classes, that a painter, who had just finished an engaging portrait
of her surrounded by her children, feared to send it to the exhibition, lest it should be made
a pretext for insult and violence. Her unpopularity did not, indeed, last long at this time,
but was superseded, as we shall presently see, by fresh feelings of gratitude for fresh labors
of charity; nevertheless, the outcry now raised left its seed behind it, to grow hereafter
into a more enduring harvest of distrust and hatred.

She had troubles, too, of another kind which touched her more nearly. A second daughter, Sophie[2],
had been born to her in the summer of 1786; but she was a sickly child, and died, before she
was a year old, of one of the illnesses to which children are subject, and for some months
the mother mourned bitterly over her "little angel," as she called her. Her eldest boy, too,
was getting rapidly and visibly weaker in health: his spine seemed to diseased, Marie Antoinette's
only hope of saving him rested on the fact that his father had also been delicate at the same
age. Luckily his brother gave her no cause for uneasiness; as she wrote to the emperor[3]--"he
had all that his elder wanted; he was a thorough peasant's child, tall, stout, and ruddy.[4]"
She had also another comfort, which, as her troubles thickened, became more and more precious
to her, in the warm affection that had sprung up between her and her sister-in-law, the Princess
Elizabeth. A letter[5] has been preserved in which the princess describes the death of the
little Sophie to one of her friends, which it is impossible to read without being struck by
the sincerity of the sympathy with which she enters into the grief of the bereaved mother.
In these moments of anguish she showed herself indeed a true sister, and, the two clinging
to one another the more the greater their dangers and distresses became, a true sister she
continued to the end.

Meanwhile the embarrassments of the Government were daily assuming a more formidable appearance.
Calonne had for some time endeavored to meet the deficiency of the revenue by raising fresh
loans, till he had completely exhausted the national credit; and at last had been forced to
admit that the scheme originally propounded by Turgot, and subsequently in a more modified
degree by Necker, of abolishing the exemptions from taxation which were enjoyed by the nobles--the
privileged classes, as they were often called--was the only expedient to save the nation from
the disgrace and ruin of total bankruptcy. But, as it seemed probable that the nobles would
resist such a measure, and that their resistance would prove too strong for him, as it had
already been found to be for his predecessors, he proposed to the king to revive an old assembly
which had been known by the title of the Notables; trusting that, if he succeeded in obtaining
the sanction of that body to his plans, the nobles would hardly venture to insist on maintaining
their privileges in defiance of the recorded judgment of so respectable a council. His hopes
were disappointed. He might fairly have reckoned on obtaining their concurrence, since it was
the unquestioned prerogative of the king to nominate all the members; but, even when he was
most deliberate and resolute, his rashness and carelessness were incurable. He took no pains
whatever to select members favorable to his views; and the consequence was that, in March,
1787, in the very first month of the session of the Notables, the whole body protested against
one of the taxes which he desired to impose; and his enemies at once urged the king to dismiss
him, basing their recommendation on the practice of England, where, as they affirmed, a minister
who found himself in a minority on an important question immediately retired from office.

Marie Antoinette, who, as we have seen, had been a diligent reader of Hume, had also been led
to compare the proceedings of the refractory Notables with the conduct of our English parliamentary
parties, and to an English reader some of her comments can not fail to be as interesting as
they are curious. The Duchess de Polignac was drinking the waters at Bath, which at that time
was a favorite resort of French valetudinarians, and, while she was still in that most beautiful
of English cities, the queen kept up an occasional correspondence with her. We have two letters
which Marie Antoinette wrote to her in April; one on the 9th, the very day on which Calonne
was dismissed; the second, two days latter; and even the passages which do not relate to politics
have their interest as specimens of the writer's character, and of the sincere frankness with
which she laid aside her rank and believed in the possibility of a friendship of complete equality.

"April 9th, 1787.

"I thank you, my dear heart, for your letter, which has done me good. I was anxious about you.
It is true, then, that you have not suffered much from your journey. Take care of yourself,
I insist on it, I beg of you; and be sure and derive benefit from the waters, else I should
repent of the privation I have inflicted on myself without your health being benefited. When
you are near I feel how much I love you; and I feel it much more when you are far away. I am
greatly taken up with you and yours, and you would be very ungrateful if you did not love me,
for I can not change toward you.

"Where you are you can at least enjoy the comfort of never hearing of business. Although you
are in the country of an Upper and a Lower House, you can stop your ears and let people talk.
But here it is a noise that deafens one in spite of all I can do. The words 'opposition' and
'motions' are established here as in the English Parliament, with this difference, that in
London, when people go into opposition, they begin by denuding themselves of the favors of
the king; instead of which, here numbers oppose all the wise and beneficent views of the most
virtuous of masters, and still keep all he has given them. It may be a cleverer way of managing,
but it is not so gentleman-like. The time of illusion is past, and we are tasting cruel experience.
We are paying dearly to-day for our zeal and enthusiasm for the American war. The voice of
honest men is stifled by members and cabals. Men disregard principles to bind themselves to
words, and to multiply attacks on individuals. The seditious will drag the State to its ruin
rather than renounce their intrigues."

And in her second letter she specifies some of the Opposition by name; one of whom, as will
be seen hereafter, contributed greatly to her subsequent miseries.... "The repugnance which
you know that I have always had to interfering in business is today put cruelly to the proof;
and you would be as tired as I am of all that goes on. I have already spoken to you of our
Upper and Lower House,[6] and of all the absurdities which take place there, and of the nonsense
which is talked. To be loaded with benefits by the king, like M. de Beauvau, to join the Opposition,
and to surrender none of them, is what is called having spirit and courage. It is, in truth,
the courage of infamy. I am wholly surrounded with folks who have revolted from him. A duke,[7]
a great maker of motions, a man who has always a tear in his eye when he speaks, is one of
the number. M. de La Fayette always founds the opinions he expresses on what is done at Philadelphia....
Even bishops and archbishops belong to the Opposition, and a great many of the clergy are the
very soul of the cabal. You may judge, after this, of all the resources which they employ to
overturn the plans of the king and his ministers."

Calonne, however, as has already been intimated, had been dismissed from office before this
last letter was written. There had been a trial of strength between him and his enemies; which
he, believing that he had won the confidence of Louis himself, reckoned on turning to his own
advantage, by inducing the king to dismiss those of his opponents who were in office. To his
astonishment, he found that Louis preferred dispensing with his own services, and the general
voice was probably correct when it, affirmed that it was the queen who had induced him to come
to that decision.

Loménie de Brienne, Archbishop of Toulouse, was again a candidate for the vacant post, and
De Vermond was as diligent as on the previous occasion[8] in laboring to return the obligations
under which that prelate had formerly laid him, by extolling his abilities and virtues to the
queen, and recommending him as a worthy successor to Calonne, whom she had never trusted or
liked. In reality, the archbishop was wholly destitute of either abilities or virtues. He was
notorious both for open profligacy and for avowed infidelity, so much so that Louis had refused
to transfer him to the diocese of Paris, on the ground that "at least the archbishop of the
metropolis ought to believe in God.[9]" But Marie Antoinette was ignorant of his character,
and believed De Vermond's assurance that the appointment of so high an ecclesiastic would propitiate
the clergy, whose opposition, as many of her letters prove, she thought specially formidable,
and for whose support she knew her husband to be nervously anxious. Some of Calonne's colleagues
strongly urged the king to re-appoint Necker, whose recall would have been highly popular with
the nation. But Necker had recently given Louis personal offense by publishing a reply to some
of Calonne's statements, in defiance of the king's express prohibition, and had been banished
from Paris for the act; and the queen, recollecting how he had formerly refused to withdraw
his resignation at her entreaty, felt that she had no reason to expect any great consideration
for the opinions or wishes of either herself or the king from one so conceited and self-willed,
who would be likely to attribute his re-appointment, not to the king's voluntary choice, but
to his necessities: she therefore strongly pressed that the archbishop should be preferred.
In an unhappy moment she prevailed;[10] and on the 1st of May, 1787, Loménie de Brienne was
installed in office with the title of Chief of the Council of Finance.

A more unhappy choice could not possibly have been made. The new minister was soon seen to
be as devoid of information and ability as he was known to be of honesty. He had a certain
gravity of outward demeanor which imposed upon many, and he had also the address to lead the
conversation to points which, his hearers understood still less than himself; dilating on finance
and the money market even to the ladies of the court, who had had some share in persuading
the queen of his fitness for office.[11] But his disposition was in reality as rash as that
of Calonne; and it was a curious proof of his temerity, as well as of his ignorance of the
feeling of parties in Paris, that though he knew the Notables to be friendly to him, as indeed
they would have been to any one who might have superseded Calonne, he dismissed them before
the end of the month. And the language held on their dissolution both by the ministers and
by the President of the Notables, and which was cheerfully accepted by the people, is remarkable
from the contrast which it affords to the feelings which swayed the national council exactly
two years afterward. Some measures of retrenchment which the Notables had recommended had been
adopted; some reductions had been made in the royal households; some costly ceremonies had
been abolished; and one or two imposts, which had pressed with great severity on the poorer
classes, had been extinguished or modified. And not only did M. Lamoignon, the Keeper of the
Seals, in the speech in which he dismissed them, venture to affirm that these reductions would
be found to have effected all that was needed to restore universal prosperity to the kingdom;
but the President of the Assembly, in his reply, thanked God "for having caused him to be born
in such an age, under such a government, and for having made him the subject of a king whom
he was constrained to love," and the thanksgiving was re-echoed by the whole Assembly. But
this contentment did not last long. The embarrassments of the Treasury were too serious to
be dissipated by soft speeches. The Notables were hardly dissolved before the archbishop proposed
a new loan of an enormous amount; and, as he might have foreseen, their dissolution revived
the pretensions of the Parliament. The queen's description of the rise of a French opposition
at once received a practical commentary. The debates in the Parliament became warmer than they
had ever been since the days of the Fronde: the citizens, sharing in the excitement, thronged
the palace of the Parliament, expressing their approval or disapproval of the different speakers
by disorderly and unprecedented clamor; the great majority hooting down the minister and his
supporters, and cheering those who spoke against him. The Duc d'Orléans, by open bribes, gained
over many of the councilors to oppose the court in every thing. The registration of several
of the edicts which the minister had sent down was refused; and one member of the Orleanist
party even demanded the convocation of the States- general, formerly and constitutionally the
great council of the nation, but which had never been assembled since the time of Richelieu.

The archbishop was sometimes angry, and sometimes terrified, and as weak in his anger as in
his terror. He persuaded the king to hold a bed of justice to compel the registration of the
edicts. When the Parliament protested, he banished it to Troyes. In less than a month he became
alarmed at his own vigor, and recalled it. Encouraged by his pusillanimity, and more secure
than ever of the support of the citizens who had been thrown into consternation by his demand
of a second loan, nearly[12] six times as large as the first, it became more audacious and
defiant than ever, D'Orléans openly placing himself at the head of the malcontents. Loménie
persuaded the king to banish the duke, and to arrest one or two of his most vehement partisans;
and again in a few weeks repented of this act of decision also, released the prisoners, and
recalled the duke.

As a matter of course, the Parliament grew bolder still. Every measure which the minister proposed
was rejected; and under the guidance of one of their members, Duval d'Esprémesnil, the councilors
at last proceeded so far as to take the initiative in new legislation into their own hands.
In the first week in May, 1788, they passed a series of resolutions affirming that to be the
law which indeed ought to have been so, but which had certainly never been regarded as such
at any period of French history. One declared that magistrates were irremovable, except in
cases of misconduct; another, that the individual liberty and property of every citizen were
inviolable; others insisted on the necessity of convoking the States- general as the only assembly
entitled to impose taxes; and the councilors hoped to secure the royal acceptance of these
resolutions by some previous votes which asserted that, of those laws which were the very foundation
of the Constitution, the first was that which assured the "crown to the reigning house and
to its descendants in the male line, in the order of primogeniture.[13]"

But Louis, or rather his rash minister, was not to be so conciliated; and a scene ensued which
is the first of the striking parallels which this period in France affords to the events which
had taken place in England a century and a half before. As in 1642 Charles I. had attempted
to arrest members of the English Parliament in the very House of Commons, so the archbishop
now persuaded Louis to send down the captain of the guard, the Marquis d'Agoust, to the palace
of the Parliament, to seize D'Esprémesnil, and another councilor named Montsabert, who had
been one of his foremost supporters in the recent discussions. They behaved with admirable
dignity. Marie Antoinette was not one to betray her husband's counsels, as Henrietta Maria
had betrayed those of Charles. D'Esprémesnil and his friend, wholly taken by surprise, had
had no warning of what was designed, no time to withdraw, nor in all probability would they
have done so in any case. When M. d'Agoust entered the council hall and demanded his prisoners,
there was a great uproar. The whole Assembly made common cause with their two brethren who
were thus threatened. "We are all d'Esprémesnils and Montsaberts," was their unanimous cry;
while the tumult at the doors, where a vast multitude was collected, many of whom had arms
in their hands and seemed prepared to use them, was more formidable still. But D'Agoust, though
courteous in the discharge of his duty, was intrepid and firm; and the two members voluntarily
surrendered themselves and retired in custody, while the archbishop was so elated with his
triumph that a few days afterwards he induced the king to venture on another imitation of the
history of England, though now it was not Charles, but the more tyrannical Cromwell, whose
conduct was copied. Before the end of the month the Governor of Paris entered the palace of
the Parliament, seized all the registers and documents of every kind, locked the doors, and
closed them with the king's seal; and a royal edict was issued suspending all the parliaments
both in the capital and the provinces.

The whole kingdom was thrown into great and dangerous excitement by these transactions. Little
as were the benefits which the people had ever derived from the conduct of the Parliament,
their opposition to the archbishop, who had already had time to make himself generally hated
and despised, caused the councilors to be very generally regarded as champions of liberty;
and in the most distant provinces, in Béarn, in Isère, and in Brittany, public meetings (a
thing hitherto unknown in the history of the nation) were held, remonstrances were drawn up,
confederacies were formed, and oaths were administered by which those who took them bound themselves
never to surrender what they affirmed to be the ancient privileges of the nation.

The archbishop became alarmed; a little, perhaps, for the nation and the king, but far more
for his own place, which he had already contrived to render profitable to himself by the preferments
which it had enabled him to engross. And, in the hope of saving it, he now entreated Necker
to join the Government, proposing to yield up the management of the finances to him, and to
retain only the post of prime minister.

A letter from the queen to Mercy shows that she acquiesced in the scheme. Her disapproval of
Necker's past conduct was outweighed by her sense of the need which the State had of his financial
talents; though, for reasons which she explains, she was unwilling wholly to sacrifice the
archbishop; and the letter has a further interest as displaying some of the difficulties which
arose from the peculiar disposition of the king, while every one was daily more and more learning
to look upon her as the more important person in the Government. On the 19th of August, 1783,
she writes to Mercy,[1] whom the archbishop had employed as his agent to conciliate the stubborn
Swiss Banker:

"The archbishop came to me this morning, immediately after he had seen you, to report to me
the conversation which he had had with you. I spoke to him very frankly, and was touched by
what he said. He is at this moment with the king, to try and get him to decide; but I very
much fear that M. Necker will not accept while the archbishop remains. The animosity of the
public against him is pushed so far that M. Necker will be afraid of being compromised, and,
indeed, perhaps it might injure his credit; but, at the same time, what is to be done? In truth
and conscience we can not sacrifice a man who has made for as all these sacrifices of his reputation,
of his position in the world, perhaps even of his life; for I fear they would kill him. There
is yet M. Foulon, if M. Necker refuses absolutely.[2] But I suspect him of being a very dishonest
man; and confidence would not be established with him for comptroller. I fear, too, that the
public is pressing us to take a part much more humiliating for the ministers, and much more
vexatious for ourselves, inasmuch as we shall have done nothing of our own will. I am very
unhappy. I will close my letter after I know the result of this evening's conference. I greatly
fear the archbishop will be forced to retire altogether, and then what man are we to take to
place at the head of the whole? For we must have one, especially with M. Necker. He must have
a bridle; and the person who is above me[3] is not able to be such; and I, whatever people
may say, and whatever happens, am never any thing but second; and, in spite of the confidence
which the first has in me, he often makes me feel it.... The archbishop has just gone. The
king is very unwilling; and could only be brought to make up his mind by a promise that the
person[4] should only be sounded; and that no positive engagement should be made."

Necker refused. The next day Mercy reported to the queen that, though the excitement was great,
it confined itself to denunciations of the archbishop and of the keeper of the seals; and that
"the name of the queen had never once been mentioned;" and on the 22d, Marie Antoinette,[5]
from a conviction of the greatness of the emergency, determined to see Necker herself; and
employed the embassador and De Vermond to let him know that her own wish for his restoration
to the direction of the finances was sincere and earnest, and to promise him that the archbishop
should not interfere in that department in any way whatever. Two days later,[6] she wrote again
to mention that the king had vanquished his repugnance to Necker, and had come wholly over
to her opinion. "Time pressed, and it was more essential than ever that Necker should accept;"
and on the 25th she writes a final letter to report to Mercy that the archbishop has resigned,
and that she has just summoned Necker to come to her the next morning. Though she felt that
she had done what was both right and indispensable, she was not without misgivings. "If," she
writes, in a strain of anxious despondency very foreign to her usual tone, and which shows
how deeply she felt the importance of the crisis, and of every step that might be taken-- "if
he will but undertake the task, it is the best thing that can be done; but I tremble (excuse
my weakness) at the fact that it is I who have brought him back. It is my fate to bring misfortune,
and, if infernal machinations should cause him once more to fail, or if he should lower the
authority of the king, they will hate me still more."

In one point of view she need not have trembled at being known to have caused Necker's re-appointment,
since it is plain that no other nomination was possible. Vergennes had died a few months before,
and the whole kingdom did not supply a single statesman of reputation except Necker. Nor could
any choice have for the moment been more universally popular. The citizens illuminated Paris;
the mob burned the archbishop in effigy; and the leading merchants and bankers showed their
approval in a far more practical way. The funds rose; loans to any amount were freely offered
to the Treasury; the national credit revived; as if the solvency or insolvency of the nation
depended on a single man, and him a foreigner.

Yet, if regarded in any point of view except that of a financier, he was extremely unfit to
be the minister at such a crisis; and the queen's acuteness had, in the extract from her letter
which has been, quoted above, correctly pointed out the danger to be apprehended, namely, that
he might lower the authority of the king.[7] It was, in fact, to his uniform and persistent
degradation of the king's authority that the greater part, if not the whole, of the evils which
ensued may be clearly traced, and the cause that led him to adopt this fatal system was thoroughly
visible to one gifted with such intuitive penetration into character as Marie Antoinette. For
he had two great defects or weaknesses; an overweening vanity, which, as it is valued applause
above every thing, led him to regard the popularity which they might win for him as the natural
motive and the surest test of his actions; and an abstract belief in human perfection and in
the submission of all classes to strict reason, which could only proceed from a total ignorance
of mankind.[8] Yet, greatly as financial skill was needed, if the kingdom was to be saved from
the bankruptcy which seemed to be imminent, it was plain that a faculty for organization and
legislation was no less indispensable if the vessel of the State was to be steered safely along
the course on which it was entering; for the archbishop's last act had been to induce the king
to promise to convoke the States-general. The 1st of May of the ensuing year was fixed for
their meeting; and the arrangements for and the management of an assembly, which, as not having
met for nearly two hundred years, could not fail to present many of the features of an entire
novelty, were a task which would have severely tested the most statesman-like capacity.

But, unhappily, Necker's very first acts showed him equally void of resolution and of sagacity.
He was not only unable to estimate the probable conduct of the people in future, but he showed
himself incapable of profiting by the experience of the past; and, in spite of the insubordinate
spirit which the Parliament had at all times displayed, he at once recalled them in deference
to the clamor of the Parisian citizens, and allowed them to enter Paris in a triumphal procession,
as if his very object had been to parade their victory over the king's authority. Their return
was the signal for a renewal of riots, which assumed a more formidable character than ever.
The police, and even the guardhouses, were attacked in open day, and the Government had reason
to suspect that the money which was employed in fomenting the tumults was supplied by the Duc
d'Orléans. A fierce mob traversed the streets at night, terrifying the peaceable inhabitants
with shouts of triumph over the king as having been compelled to recall the Parliament against
his will; while those who were supposed to be adverse to the pretensions of the councilors
were insulted in the streets, and branded as Royalists, the first time in the history of the
nation that ever that name had been used as a term of reproach.

Yet, presently the whole body of citizens, with their habitual impulsive facility of temper,
again, for a while, became Royalists. The winter was one of unprecedented severity. By the
beginning of December the Seine was frozen over, and the whole adjacent country was buried
in deep snow. Wolves from the neighboring forests, desperate with hunger, were said to have
made their way into the suburbs, and to have attacked people in the streets. Food of every
kind became scarce, and of the poorer classes many were believed to have died of actual starvation.
Necker, as head of the Government, made energetic and judicious efforts to relieve the universal
distress, forming magazines in different districts, facilitating the means of transport, finding
employment for vast numbers of laborers and artisans, and purchasing large quantities of grain
in foreign countries; and, not only were Louis and Marie Antoinette conspicuous for the unstinting
liberality with which they devoted their own funds to the supply of the necessities of the
destitute, but the queen, in many cases of unusual or pressing suffering that were reported
to her in Versailles and the neighboring villages, sent trustworthy persons to investigate
them, and in numerous instances went herself to the cottages, making personal inquiries into
the condition of the occupants, and showing not only a feeling heart, but a considerate and
active kindness, which doubled the value of her benefactions by the gracious, thoughtful manner
in which they were bestowed.

She would willingly have done the good she did in secret, partly from her constant feeling
that charity was not charity if it were boasted of, partly from a fear that those ready to
misconstrue all her acts would find pretexts for evil and calumny even in her bounty. One of
her good deeds struck Necker as of so remarkable a character that he pressed her to allow him
to make it known. "Be sure, on the contrary," she replied, "that you never mention it. What
good could it do? they would not believe you;[9]" but in this she was mistaken. Her charities
were too widely spread to escape the knowledge even of those who did not profit by them; and
they had their reward, though it was but a short-lived one. Though the majority of her acts
of personal kindness were performed in Versailles rather than in Paris, the Parisians were
as vehement in their gratitude as the Versaillese; and it found a somewhat fantastic vent in
the erection of pyramids and obelisks of snow in different quarters of the city, all bearing
inscriptions testifying the citizens' sense of her benevolence. One, which far exceeded all
its fellows in size--the chief beauty of works of that sort--since it was fifteen feet high,
and each of the four faces was twelve feet wide at the base, was decorated with a medallion
of the royal pair, and bore a poetical inscription commemorating the cause of its erection:

  "Reine, dont la beauté surpasse les appas
  Près d'un roi bienfaisant occupe ici la place.
  Si ce monument frêle est de neige et de glace,
    Nos coeurs pour toi ne le sont pas.
    De ce monument sans exemple,
  Couple auguste, l'aspect bien doux pur votre coeur
  Sans doute vous plaira plus qu'un palais, qu'un temple
   Que vous élèverait un peuple adulateur.[10]"

Neither the queen's feelings nor her conduct had been in any way altered; but six months later
the same populace who raised this monument and applauded these verses were, with ferocious
and obscene threats, clamoring for her blood. And there is hardly any thing more strange or
more grievous in the history of the nation, hardly any greater proof of that incurable levity
which was one great cause of the long series of miseries which soon fell upon it, than that
the impressions of gratitude which were so vivid at the moment, and so constantly revived by
the queen's untiring benevolence, could yet be so easily effaced by the acts of demagogues
and libelers, whom the people thoroughly despised even while suffering themselves to be led
by them. How great a part in these libels was borne by those who were bound by every tie of
blood to the king to be his warmest supporters, we have a remarkable proof in an Edict of Council
which was issued during the ministry of the archbishop, and which deprived the palaces of the
Count de Provence, the Count d'Artois, and the Duc d'Orléans of their usual exemption from
the investigation of the syndics of the library, as those officers were called whose duty it
was to search all suspected places for libelous or seditious pamphlets; the reason publicly
given for this edict being that the dwellings of these three princes were a perfect arsenal
for the issue of publications contrary to the laws, to morality, and to religion.[11]

With the return of spring, the severity of the distress began to pass away. But, even while
it lasted, it scarcely diverted the attention of the middle classes from the preparations for
the approaching meeting of the States-general, from which the whole people, with few exceptions,
promised themselves great advantages, though comparatively few had formed any precise notion
of the benefits which they expected, or of the mode in which they were to be attained. The
States-general had been originally established in the same age which saw the organization of
our own Parliament, with very nearly the same powers, though the members had more of the narrower
character of delegates of their constituents than was the case in England, where they were
more wisely regarded as representatives of the entire nation.[12] And it was an acknowledged
principle of their constitution that they could neither propose any measure nor ask for the
redress of any grievance which was not expressly mentioned in the instructions with which their
constituents furnished them at the time of their election.

In England, the two Houses of Parliament, by a vigilant and systematic perseverance, had gradually
extorted from the sovereign a great and progressive enlargement of their original powers, till
they had almost engrossed the entire legislative authority in the kingdom. But in France, a
variety of circumstances had prevented the States-general from arriving at a similar development.
And, consequently, as in human affairs very little is stationary, their authority had steadily
diminished, instead of increasing, till they had become so powerless and utterly insignificant
that, since the year 1615, they had never once been convened. Not only had they been wholly
disused, but they seemed to have been wholly forgotten. During the last two reigns no one had
ever mentioned their name; much less had any wish been expressed for their resuscitation, till
the financial difficulties of the Government, and the general and growing discontent of the
great majority of the nation, with which, since the death of Turgot, every successive minister
had been manifestly incompetent to deal, had, as we have seen, led some ardent reformers to
demand their restoration, as the one expedient which had not been tried, and which, therefore,
had this in its favor, that it was not condemned by previous failure.

That great reforms were indispensable was admitted in every quarter. There was no country in
Europe where the feudal system had received so little modification.[13] Every law seemed to
have been made, and every custom to have been established for the exclusive benefit of the
nobles. They were even exempted from many of the taxes, an exemption which was the more intolerable
from the vast number of persons who were included in the list. Practically it may be said that
there were two classes of nobles--the old historic houses, as they were sometimes called, such
as the Grammonts or Montmorencies, which were not numerous, and many of which had greatly decayed
in wealth and influence; and an inferior class whose nobility was derived from their possession
of office under the crown in any part of the kingdom. Even tax-gatherers and surveyors, if
appointed by royal warrant, could claim the rank; and new offices were continually being created
and sold which conferred the same title. Those so ennobled were not reckoned the equals of
the higher class. They could not even be received at court until their patents were four hundred
years old, but they had a right to vote as nobles at elections to any representative body.
Those whose patents were twenty-four years old could be elected as representatives; and from
the moment of their creation they all enjoyed great exemptions; so that, as the lowest estimate
reckoned their numbers at a hundred thousand, it is a matter for some wonder how the taxes
to which they did not contribute produced any thing worth collecting. It was, of course, manifest
that the exemptions enormously increased the burden to be borne by the classes which did not
enjoy such privileges.

But, heavy as the grievance of these exemptions was, it was as nothing when compared with the
feudal rights claimed by the greater nobles. The peasants on their estates were forced to grind
their corn at the lord's mill, to press their grapes at his wine-press, paying for such act
whatever price he might think fit to exact, and often having their crops wholly wasted or spoiled
by the delays which such a system engendered. The game-laws forbade them to weed their fields
lest they should disturb the young partridges or leverets; to manure the soil with any thing
which might injure their flavor; or even to mow or reap till the grass or corn was no longer
required as shelter for the young coveys. Some of the rights of seigniory, as it was called,
were such as can hardly be mentioned in this more decorous age; some were so ridiculous that
it is inconceivable how their very absurdity had not led to their abolition. In the marshy
districts of Brittany, one right enjoyed by the great nobles was "the silence of the frogs,[14]"
which, whenever the lady was confined, bound the peasants to spend their days and nights in
beating the swamps with long poles to save her from being disturbed by their inharmonious croaking.
And if this or any other feudal right was dispensed with, it was only commuted for a money
payment, which was little less burdensome.

The powers exercised by the crown were more intolerable still. The sovereign was absolute master
of the liberties of his subjects. Without alleging the commission of any crime, he could issue
warrants--letters under seal, as they were called--which consigned the person named in them
to imprisonment, which was often perpetual. The unhappy prisoner had no power of appeal. No
judge could inquire into his case, much less release him. The arrests were often made with
such secrecy and rapidity that his nearest relations knew not what had become of him, but he
was cut off from the outer world, for the rest of his life, as completely as if he had at once
been handed over to the executioner.[15]

It was impossible but that such customs should produce general discontent, and a resolute demand
for a complete reformation of the system. And one of the problems which the minister had to
determine was, how to organize the States-general so that they should be disposed to promote
such measures as reform as should be adequate without being excessive; as should give due protection
to the middle and lower classes without depriving the nobles of that dignity and authority
which were not only desirable for themselves, but useful to their dependents; and, lastly,
such as should carefully preserve the rightful prerogatives of the crown, while putting an
end to those arbitrary powers, the existence of which was incompatible with the very name of
freedom.

In making the necessary arrangements, the long disuse of the Assembly was a circumstance greatly
in favor of the Government, if Necker had had skill to avail himself of it, since it wholly
freed him from the obligation of being guided by former precedents. Those arrangements were
long and warmly debated in the king's council. Though the records of former sessions had been
so carelessly preserved that little was known of their proceedings, it seemed to be established
that the representatives of the Commons had usually amounted to about four-tenths of the whole
body, those of the clergy and of the nobles being each about three-tenths; and that they had
almost invariably deliberated and voted in separate chambers; and the princes and the chief
nobles presented memorials to the king, in which they almost unanimously recommended an adherence
to these ancient forms; while, with patriotic prudence, they sought to obviate all jealousy
of their own pretensions or views which might be entertained or feigned in any quarter, by
announcing their willingness to abandon all the exclusive privileges and exemptions which they
had hitherto possessed, and which were notoriously one chief cause of the generally prevailing
discontent.

But the party which had originated the clamor for the States-general, now, encouraged by their
success, put forward two fresh demands; the first, that the number of the representatives of
the Commons should equal that of both the other orders put together, which they called "the
duplication of the Third Estate;" the second, that the three orders should meet and vote as
one united body in one chamber; the two proposition taken together being manifestly calculated
and designed to throw the whole power into the hands of the Commons.

Necker had great doubts about the propriety and safety of the first proposal, and no doubt
at all of the danger of the second. His own judgment was that the wisest plan would be to order
the clergy and nobles to unite in an Upper Chamber, so as in some degree to resemble the British
House of Lords; while the Third Estate, in a Lower Chamber, would be a tolerably faithful copy
of our House of Commons. But he could never bring himself to risk his popularity by opposing
what he regarded as the opinion of the masses. He was alarmed by the political clubs which
were springing up in Paris; one, whose president was the Duc d'Orléans, assuming the significant
and menacing title of Les Enragés;[16] and by the vast number of pamphlets which were circulated
both in the capital and the chief towns of the provinces by thousands,[17] every writer of
which put himself forward as a legislator,[18] and of which the vast majority advocated what
they called the rights of the Third Estate, in most violent language; and, finally, he adopted
the course which is a great favorite with vain and weak men, and which he probably represented
to himself as a compromise between unqualified concession and unyielding resistance, though,
every one possessed of the slightest penetration could see that it practically surrendered
both points: he advised the king to issue his edict that the number of representatives to be
returned to the States-general should be twelve hundred, half of whom were to be returned by
the Commons, a quarter by the clergy, and a quarter by the nobles;[19] and to postpone the
decision as to the number of the chambers till the Assembly should meet, when he proposed to
allow the States themselves to determine it; trusting, against all probability, that, after
having thus given the Commons the power to enforce their own views, he should be able to persuade
them to abandon the same in deference to his judgment.

Louis, as a matter of course, adopted his advice; and, after several different towns--Blois,
Tours, Cambrai, and Compiègne among them--had been proposed as the place of meeting, he himself
decided in favor of Versailles,[20] as that which would afford him the best hunting while the
session lasted. The queen in her heart disapproved of every one of these resolutions. She saw
that Necker had, as she had foreboded, sacrificed the king's authority by his advice on the
two first questions; and she perceived more clearly than any one the danger of fixing the States-
general so near to Paris that the turbulent population of the city should be able to overawe
the members. She pressed these considerations earnestly on the king,[21] but it was characteristic
of the course which she prescribed to herself from, the beginning, and from which she never
swerved, that when her advice was overruled she invariably defended the course which had been
taken. Her language, when any one spoke to her either of her own opinions and wishes, or of
the feelings with which the different classes of the nation regarded her, was invariably the
same. "You are not to think of me for a moment. All that I desire of you is to take care that
the respect which is due to the king shall not be weakened;[22]" and it was only her most intimate
friends who knew how unwise she thought the different decisions that had been adopted, or how
deep were her forebodings of evil.

CHAPTER XXIII.

The meeting of the States-general, as has been already seen, was fixed for the 4th of May,
1789; and, as if it were fated that the bloody character of the period now to be inaugurated
should be displayed from the very outset, the elections for the city of Paris, which were only
held in the preceding week, were stained with a riot so formidable as to be commonly spoken
of in the records of the time as an insurrection.[1]

One of the candidates for the representation of the Third Estate was a paper-maker of the name
of Reveillon, a man eminent for his charity and general liberality, but one who was believed
to regard the views of the extreme reformers with disfavor. He was so popular with his own
workmen, who were very numerous, and with their friends, who knew his character from them,
that he was generally expected to succeed. The opposite party, who had candidates of their
own, and had the support of the purse of the Duc d'Orléans, were determined that he should
not; and no way seemed so sure as to murder him. Bands of ferocious-looking ruffians were brought
in from the country districts, armed with heavy bludgeons, and, as was afterward learned, well
supplied with money; and on the morning of the 28th of April news was brought to the Baron
de Besenval, the commander of the Royal Guards, that a mob of several thousand men had collected
in the streets, who had read a mock sentence, professing to have been passed by the Third Estate,
which condemned Reveillon to be hanged, after which they had burned him in effigy, and then
attacked his house, which they were sacking and destroying. They even ventured to attack the
first company of soldiers whom De Besenval sent to the rescue; and it was not till he dispatched
a battalion with a couple of field-pieces to the spot that the plunderers were expelled from
the house and the riot was quelled. Nearly five hundred of the mob were killed, but when the
Parliament proceeded to set on foot a judicial inquiry into the cause of the tumult, Necker
prevailed on the secretary of state to suppress the investigation, as he feared to exasperate
D'Orléans further by giving publicity to his machinations, which he did not yet suspect either
the extent or the object.[2]

A momentary tranquility was, however, restored at Paris; and all eyes were turned from the
capital to Versailles, where the first few days of May were devoted to the receptions of the
States-general by the king and queen, ceremonies which might have had a good effect, since
the bitterest adversaries of the court were favorably impressed by the grace and affability
of the queen; but which many shrewd judges afterward believed to have had a contrary influence,
from the offense taken by the representatives of the Commons at some of the details of the
ancient etiquette, which on so solemn an occasion was revived in all its stately strictness.
The dignitaries of the Church wore their most sumptuous robes. The Nobles glittered with silk
and gold lace; jeweled clasps fastened plumes of feathers in their hats; orders glittered on
their breasts; and many a precious stone sparkled in the hilts of their swords. The representatives
of the Commons were allowed neither feathers, nor embroidery, nor swords; but were forced to
content themselves with plain black cloaks, and an unadorned homeliness of attire, which seemed
as if intended to exclude all idea of their being the equals of those other orders of which
they had for a moment become the colleagues. And, in a similar spirit it was arranged that,
after the folding-doors of the saloon in which the sovereigns were awaiting them were thrown
wide open to admit the representatives of the higher orders, the Commons were let in through
a side door. And though in the eyes of persons habituated to the ceremonious niceties of court
life these distinctions seemed matters of course, and, as such, unworthy of notice, it can
hardly be wondered at if they were galling to men accustomed only to the simpler manners of
a provincial town; and who, proud of their new position and deeply impressed with its importance,
fancied they saw in them a settled intention to degrade both them and their constituents by
thus stamping them with a badge of inferiority before all the spectators.

The opening of the States-general was fixed for the 5th of May, and on the day before, which
was Sunday, a solemn mass was performed at the principal church in Versailles, that of Notre
Dame; after which the congregation proceeded to another church,  that of St. Louis, to hear
a sermon from the Bishop of Nancy. It was a stately procession that moved from one church to
the other, and it was afterward remembered as the very last in which the royal pair appeared
before their subjects with the undiminished magnificence of ancient ceremony. First, after
a splendid escort of troops, came the members of the States in their several orders; then the
king marched by himself; the queen followed; and behind her came the princes and princesses
of the royal family of the blood, the officers of state and of the household, and companies
of the Body-guard brought up the rear. The acclamations of the spectators were loud as the
deputies of the States, and especially as the representatives of the Commons, passed on; loud,
too, as the king; moved forward, bearing himself with unusual dignity; but, when the queen
advanced, though still the main body of the people cheered with sincere respect, a gang of
ruffians, among whom were several women,[3] shouted out "Long live the Duke of Orléans!" in
her ear, with so menacing an accent that, she nearly fainted with terror. By a strong mastery
over herself she shook off the agitation, which was only perceived by her immediate attendants;
but the disloyal feeling thus shown toward her at the outset was a sad omen of the spirit in
which one party at least was prepared to view the measures of the Government; and, so far as
she was concerned, of the degree in which her enemies had succeeded in poisoning the minds
of the people against her, as the person whose resistance to their meditated encroachments
on the royal authority was likely to prove the most formidable.

It was a significant hint, too, of the projects already formed by the worthless prince whose
adherents these ruffians proclaimed themselves. The Duc d'Orléans conceived himself to have
lately received a fresh provocation, and an additional motive for revenge. His eldest son,
the Duc de Chartres,[4] was now a boy of sixteen, and he had proposed to the king to give him
Madame Royale in marriage; an idea which the queen, who held his character in deserved abhorrence,
had rejected with very decided marks of displeasure. He was also stimulated by views of personal
ambition. The history of England had been recently studied by many persons in France besides
the king and queen; and there were not wanting advisers to point out to the duke that the revolution
which had taken place in England exactly a century before had owed its success to the dethronement
of the reigning sovereign and the substitution of another member of the royal family in his
place. As William of Orange was, after the king's own children, the next heir to James II.,
so was the Duc d'Orléans now the next heir, after the king's children and brothers, to Louis
XVI.; and for the next five months there can be no doubt that he and his partisans, who numbered
in their body some of the most influential members of the States- general, kept constantly
in view the hope of placing him on the throne from which they were to depose his cousin.

The next day the States were formally opened by Louis in person. The place of meeting was a
spacious hall which, two years before, had been used for the meeting of the Notables. It had
been the scene of many a splendid spectacle in times past, but had never before witnessed so
imposing or momentous a ceremony. The town itself had not risen into notice till the memory
of the preceding States-general had almost passed away. And now, after all the deputies had
ranged themselves to receive their sovereign, the representatives of the clergy on the right
of the throne, the Nobles on the left, the Commons in denser masses at the bottom of the hall;[5]
as the king, accompanied by the queen, leading two of her children[6] by the hand, and attended
by all the princes of the royal family and of the blood, by the dukes and peers of the kingdom,
the ministers and great officers of state, entered and took his seat on the throne, the most
unimpassioned spectator must have felt that he was beholding a scene at once magnificent and
solemn; and one, from long desuetude, as novel as if it had been wholly unprecedented, such
as might well inaugurate a new policy or a new constitution.

Could those who beheld it as spectators, could those who bore a part in the solemnity, have
looked into futurity; could they have divined that no other hall would ever again see that
virtuous and beneficent king surrounded with that pomp, or received with that reverential homage
which was now paid to him as as unquestioned right; nay, that the end, of which this day was
the beginning, scarcely one single person of all those now present, whether men in the flower
of their strength, women in the pride of their beauty, or even children in their infantine
innocence and grace, would live to behold; but that sovereigns and subjects were destined,
almost without exception, to perish with circumstances of unutterable, unimaginable horror
and misery, as the direct consequence of this day's pageant; we may well believe that the most
sanguine of those who now greeted it with eager hope and exultation would rather have averted
his eyes from the ill-omened spectacle, and would have preferred to bear the worst evils of
which he was anticipating the abolition, to bringing on his country the calamities which were
about to fall upon it.

A large state arm-chair, a little lower than the throne, had been set beside it for the queen;
the princes and princesses were ranged on each side on a row of chairs without arms; and, when
all had taken their places, the king opened the session with a short speech, leaving the real
business to be unfolded at greater length by his ministers. In order to feel assured of the
proper emphasis and expression, he had rehearsed his speech frequently to the queen; and, as
he now delivered it with unusual dignity and gracefulness, it was received with frequent acclamations,
though some of those who were watching all that passed with the greatest anxiety fancied that
one or two compliments to the queen which it contained met with a colder response; while, at
its close, the representatives of the Third Estate gave an indication of their feeling toward
the other orders, and provoked a display on their part which promised little cordiality to
their deliberations. The king, who had uncovered himself while speaking, on resuming his seat
replaced his hat. The Nobles, according to the ancient etiquette, replaced theirs; and many
of the Commons at once asserted their equality with them by also covering themselves. Such
an assumption was a breach of all established custom. The Nobles were indignant, and with angry
shouts demanded the removal of the Commons' hats. They were met with louder clamor by the Commons,
and in a moment the whole hall was in an uproar, which was only allayed by the presence of
mind of Louis himself, who, as if oppressed by the heat, laid aside his own hat, when, as a
matter of course, the Nobles followed his example. The deputies of the Commons did the same,
and peace was restored.

The king's speech was followed by another short one from the keeper of the seals, which received
but little attention; and by one of prodigious length from Necker, which was equally injudicious
and unacceptable to his hearers, both in what it said and in what it omitted. He never mentioned
the question of constitutional reform. He said nothing of what the Commons, at least, thought
still more important--the number of chambers in which the members were to meet; and, though
he dilated at the most profuse length on the condition of the finances, and on his own success
in re-establishing public credit, they were by no means pleased to hear him assert that success
had removed any absolute necessity for their meeting at all, and that they had only been called
together in fulfillment of the king's promise, that so the sovereign might establish a better
harmony between the different parts of the Constitution.

Before any business could be proceeded with, it was necessary for the members to have the writs
of their elections properly certified and registered, for which they were to meet on the following
day. We need not here detail the artifices and assumptions by which the members of the Third
Estate put forward pretensions which were designed to make them masters of the whole Assembly;
nor is it necessary to unfold at length the combination of audacity and craft, aided by the
culpable weakness of Necker, by which they ultimately carried the point they contended for,
providing that the three orders should deliberate and vote together as one united body in one
chamber. Emboldened by their success, they even proceeded to a step which probably not one
among them had originally contemplated; and, as if one of their principal objects had been
to disown the authority of the king by which they had been called together, they repudiated
the title of States-general, and invented for themselves a new name, that of "The National
Assembly," which, as it had never been heard of before, seemed to mark that they owed their
existence to the nation, and not to the sovereign.

But the discussions that took place before all these points were settled, presented, besides
the importance of the conclusion which was adopted, another feature of powerful interest, since
it was in them that the members first heard the voice of the Count de Mirabeau, who, more than
any other deputy, was supposed during the ensuing year to be able to sway the whole Assembly,
and to hold the destinies of the nation in his hands.

Necker's daughter, the celebrated Baroness de Staël, wife of the Swedish embassador, who was
present at the opening of the States, which, as her father's daughter, she regarded with exulting
confidence as the body of legislators who were to regenerate the nation, remarked, as the long
procession passed before her eyes, that of the six hundred deputies of the Commons[7], the
Count de Mirabeau alone bore a name which was previously known; and he was manifestly out of
his place as a representative of the Commons. His history was a strange one. He was the eldest
son of a Provençal noble, of Italian origin, great wealth, and a ferocious eccentricity of
character, which made him one of the worst possible instructors for a youth of brilliant talents,
unbridled passions, and a disposition equally impetuous in its pursuit of good and of evil.
Even before he arrived at manhood he had become notorious for every kind of profligacy; while
his father, in an almost equal degree, provoked the censure of those who interested themselves
in the career of a youth of undeniable ability, by punishments of such severity as wore the
appearance of vengeance rather than of fatherly correction. In six or seven years he obtained
no fewer than fifteen warrants, or letters under seal, for the imprisonment of his son in different
jails or fortresses, while the young man seemed to take a wanton pleasure in showing how completely
all efforts for his reformation were thrown away. Though unusually ugly (he himself compared
his face to that of a tiger who had had the small-pox), he was irresistible among women. While
one of the youngest subalterns in the army, he made love, rarely without success, to the mistresses
or wives of his superior officers, and fought duel after duel with those who took offense at
his gallantries, From one castle in which he was imprisoned he was aided to escape by the wife
of an officer of the garrison, who accompanied his flight. From another he was delivered by
the love of a lady of the highest rank, the Marchioness de Monnier, whom he had met at the
governor's table.

When, after some years of misery, the marchioness terminated them by suicide, he seduced a
nun of exquisite beauty to leave her convent for his sake; and as France was no longer a safe
residence for them, he fled to Frederick of Prussia, who, equally glad to welcome him as a
Frenchman, a genius, and a profligate, received him for a while into high favor. But he was
penniless; and Frederick was never liberal of his money. Debt soon drove him from Prussia,
and he retired to England, where he made acquaintance with Fox, Fitzpatrick, and other men
of mark in the political circles of the day. He was at all times and amidst all his excesses
both observant and studious; and while witnessing in person the strife of parties in this country,
he learned to appreciate the excellencies of our Constitution, both in its theory and in its
practical working. But presently debt drove him from London as it had driven him from Berlin;
and, after taking refuge for a short time in Holland and Switzerland, he was hesitating whither
next to betake himself, when, hearing of the elections for the States-general, he resolved
to offer himself as a candidate; and returned to Provence to seek the suffrages of the Nobles
of his own county.

Unluckily, his character was too well known in his native district; and the Nobles, unwilling
to countenance the ambition of one who had obtained so evil a notoriety, rejected him. Full
of indignation, he turned to the Third Estate, offering himself as a representative of the
Commons. In his speeches to the citizens of Aix and Marseilles--for he canvassed both towns--he
inveighed against Necker and the Government with an eloquence which electrified his audience,
who had never before been addressed in the language of independence. He was returned for both
towns, and hastened to Versailles, eager to avenge on the Nobles, the body which, as he felt,
he had a right to have represented, the affront which had driven him, against his will, to
seek the votes of a class with which he had scarcely a feeling in common; for in the whole
Assembly there was no man less of a democrat in his heart, or prouder of his ancestry and aristocratic
privileges.

He differed from most of his colleagues, inasmuch as he, from the first, had distinct views
of the policy desirable for the nation, which he conceived to be the establishment of a limited
constitutional monarchy, such as he had seen in England.[8] But no man in the whole Assembly
was more inconsistent, as he was ever changing his views, or at least his conduct and language,
at the dictates of interest or wounded pride; sometimes, as it might seem, in the mere wantonness
of genius, as if he wished to show that he could lead the Assembly with equal ease to take
a course, or to retrace its steps--that it rested with him alone alike to do or to undo. The
only object from which he never departed was that of making all parties feel and bow to his
influence. And it is this very inconsistency which so especially connects his career for the
rest of his life with the fortunes of the queen, since, while he misunderstood her character,
and feared her power with the king and ministers as likely to be exerted in opposition to his
own views, he was the most ferocious and most foul of her enemies: when he saw that she was
willing to accept his aid, and when he therefore began to conceive a hope of making her useful
to himself in the prosecution of his designs, no man was louder in her praise, nor, it must
be admitted, more energetic or more judicious in the advice which he gave her.

His language on the first occasion on which he made his voice heard in the Assembly was eminently
characteristic of him, so manifestly was it directed to the attainment of his own object--that
of making himself necessary to the court, and obtaining either office or some pension which
might enable him to live, since his own resources had long been exhausted by his extravagance.
D'Espresménil had strongly advocated the doctrine that the meeting of the three orders in separate
chambers was a fundamental principle of the monarchy; and Mirabeau, in opposition to him, moved
an address to the king, which represented the Third Estate as desirous to ally itself with
the throne, so as to enable it to resist the pretensions of the clergy and the nobles; and,
as this speech of his produced no overture from the minister, in the middle of June he made
a direct offer to Necker to support the Government, if Necker had any plan at all which was
in the least reasonable;[9] and he gave proof of his sincerity by vigorously opposing some
proposals of the extreme reformers. But, with incredible folly, Necker rejected his support,
treating his arguments to his face as insignificant, and affirming that their views were irreconcilable,
since Mirabeau wished to govern by policy, while he himself preferred morality.

He at once resolved to revenge himself on the minister who had thus slighted him,[10] and he
was not long in finding an opportunity. On the 23d of June, after the States had assumed their
new form, and Louis at a royal sitting had announced the reforms he had resolved to grant,
and which were so complete that the most extreme reformers admitted that they could have wished
for nothing more, except that they should themselves have taken them, and that the king should
not have given them, Mirabeau took the lead in throwing down a defiance to his sovereign; refusing
to consent to the adjournment of the Assembly, as was natural on the withdrawal of the king,
and declaring that they, the members of the Commons, would not quit the hall unless they were
expelled by bayonets.

But, violently as Versailles and Paris were agitated throughout May and June, Marie Antoinette
took no part in the discussion which these questions excited. She had a still graver trouble
at home. Her eldest son, the dauphin, whose birth had been greeted so enthusiastically by all
classes, had, as we have seen, long been sickly. Since the beginning of the year his health
had been growing worse, and on the 4th of June he died; and, though his bereaved mother bore
up bravely under his loss, she felt it deeply, and for a time was almost incapacitated from
turning her attention to any other subject.

But even so solemn, a grief as that for a dead child she was not suffered to indulge long.
Even for such a purpose royalty is not always allowed the respite which would be conceded to
those in a more moderate station; and affairs in Paris began to assume so menacing a character
that she was forced to rouse herself to support her husband. Demagogues in Paris excited the
lower classes of the citizens to formidable tumults. The troops were tampered with; they mutinied;
and when the Assembly so violated its duty as to take the mutineers under its protection, and
to intercede with the king for their pardon, Louis, or, as we should probably say, Necker,
did not venture to refuse, though it was plain that the condign punishment of such an offense
was indispensable to the maintenance of discipline for the future. And Louis felt the humiliation
so deeply that some of those about him, the Count d'Artois taking the lead in that party, were
able to induce him to bring up from the frontier some German and Swiss regiments, which, as
not having been exposed to the contagion of the capital, were free from the prevailing taint
of disloyalty. But Louis was incapable of carrying out any plan resolutely. He selected the
commander with judgment, placing the troops under the orders of a veteran of the Seven Years'
War, the old Marshal de Broglie, who, though more than seventy years of age, gladly brought
once more his tried skill and valor to the service of his sovereign. But the king, even while
intrusting him with this command, disarmed him at the same moment by a strict order to avoid
all bloodshed and violence; though nothing could be more obvious than that such outbreaks as
the marshal was likely to be called on to suppress could not be quelled by gentle means.

The Orleanists and Mirabeau probably knew nothing of this humane or rather pusillanimous order,
though most of the secrets of the court were betrayed to them; but Mirabeau saw in the arrival
of the soldiers a fresh opportunity of making the king feel the folly of the minister in rejecting
his advances; and in a speech of unusual power he thundered against those who had advised the
bringing-up of troops, as he declared, to overawe the Assembly; though, in fact, nothing but
their presence and active exertions could prevent the Assembly from being overawed by the mob.
But, undoubtedly, at this time his own first object was to use the populace of Paris to terrify
the members into obedience to himself. In one of his ends he succeeded; he drove Necker from
office. He carried the address which he proposed, to entreat the king to withdraw the troops;
but Louis had for the moment resolved on adopting bolder counsels than those of Necker. He
declined to comply with the petition, declaring that it was his duty to keep in Paris a force
sufficient to preserve the public tranquillity, though, if the Assembly were disquieted by
their neighborhood, he expressed his unwillingness to remove their session to some more distant
town. And at the same time he dismissed Necker from office, banishing him from France, but
ordering him to keep his departure secret.

The queen had evidently had great influence in bringing him to this decision; but how cordially
she approved of all the concessions which the king had already made, and how clearly she saw
that more still remained to be done before the necessary reformation could be pronounced complete,
the letter which on the evening of Necker's dismissal she wrote to Madame de Polignac convincingly
proves. She had high ideas of the authority which a king was legitimately entitled to exercise;
and to what she regarded as undue restrictions on it, injurious to his dignity, she would never
consent. She probably regarded them as abstract questions which had but little bearing on the
substantial welfare of the people in general; but of all measures to increase the happiness
of all classes, even of the very lowest, she was throughout the warmest advocate.

"July 11th, 1789.

"I can not sleep, my dear heart, without letting you know that M. Necker is gone. MM. de Breteuil
and de la Vauguyon will be summoned to the council to-morrow. God grant that we may at last
be able to do all the good with which we are wholly occupied. The moment will be terrible;
but I have courage, and, provided that the honest folks support us without exposing themselves
needlessly, I think that I have vigor enough in myself to impart some to others. But it is
more than ever necessary to bear in mind that all classes of men, so long as they are honest,
are equally our subjects, and to know how to distinguish those who are right-thinking in every
district and in every rank. My God! if people could only believe that these are my real thoughts,
perhaps they would love me a little. But I must not think of myself. The glory of the king,
that of his son, and the happiness of this ungrateful nation, are all that I can, all that
I ought to, wish for; for as for your friendship, my dear heart, I reckon on that always..."

Such language and sentiments were worthy of a sovereign. That the feelings here expressed were
genuine and sincere, the whole life of the writer is a standing proof; and yet already fierce,
wicked spirits, even of women (for never was it more clearly seen than in France at this time
how far, when women are cruel, they exceed the worst of men in ferocity), were thirsting for
her blood. Already a woman in education and ability far above the lowest class, one whose energy
afterward raised her to be, if not the avowed head, at least the moving spirit, of a numerous
party (Madame Roland), was urging the public prosecution, or, if the nation were not ripe for
such a formal outrage, the secret assassination, of both king and queen.[1] But, however benevolent
and patriotic were the queen's intentions, it became instantly evident that those who had counseled
the dismissal of Necker had given their advice in entire ignorance of the hold which he had
established on the affections of the Parisians; while the new prime minister, the Baron de
Breteuil, whose previous office had connected him with the police, was, on that account, very
unpopular with a class which is very numerous in all large cities. The populace of Paris broke
out at once in riots which amounted to insurrection. Thousands of citizens, not all of the
lowest class, decorated with green cockades, the color of Necker's livery, and armed with every
variety of weapon, paraded the streets, bearing aloft busts of Necker and the Duc d'Orléans,
without stopping, in their madness, to consider how incongruous a combination they were presenting.
The most ridiculous stories were circulated about the queen: it was affirmed that she had caused
the Hall of the Assembly to be undermined, that she might blow it up with gunpowder;[2] and,
by way of averting or avenging so atrocious an act, the mob began to set fire to houses in
different quarters of the city. Growing bolder at the sight of their own violence, they broke
open the prisons, and thus obtained a re-enforcement of hundreds of desperadoes, ripe for any
wickedness. The troops were paralyzed by Louis's imbecile order to avoid bloodshed, and in
the same proportion the rioters were encouraged by their inaction and evident helplessness.
They attacked the great armory, and equipped themselves with its contents, applying to the
basest uses time-honored weapons, monuments of ancient valor and patriotism. The spear with
which Dunois had cleared his country of the British invaders; the sword with which the first
Bourbon king had routed Egmont's cavalry at Ivry, were torn down from the walls to arm the
vilest of mankind for rapine and slaughter. They stormed the Hôtel de Ville, and got possession
of the municipal chest, containing three millions of francs; and now, more and more intoxicated
with their triumph, and with the evidence which all these exploits afforded that the whole
city was at their mercy, they proceeded to give their riot a regular organization, by establishing
a committee to sit in the Guildhall and direct their future proceedings. Lawless and ferocious
as was the main body of the rioters, there were shrewd heads to guide their fury; and the very
first order issued by this committee was marked by such acute foresight, and such a skillful
adaptation to the requirements of the moment and the humor of the people, that it remains in
force to this day. It was hardly strange that men in open insurrection against the king's authority
should turn their wrath against one of its conspicuous emblems, consecrated though it was by
usage of immemorial antiquity and by many a heroic achievement--the snow-white banner bearing
the golden lilies. But that glorious ensign could not be laid aside till another was substituted
for it; and the colors of the city, red and blue, and white, the color of the army, were now
blended together to form the tricolor flag which has since won for itself a wider renown than
even the deeds of Bayard or Turenne had shed upon the lilies, and with which, under every form
of government, the nation has permanently identified itself.

They demanded more men, and a committee with three millions of francs could easily command
recruits. They stormed the Hôtel des Invalides, where thousands of muskets were kept fit for
instant use; one division of regular troops, whose commander, the Baron de Besenval, was a
resolute man, determined to do his duty, mutinying against his orders, and refusing to fire
on the mob. They took possession of the city gates, and, thinking themselves now strong enough
for any exploit, on the third day of the insurrection, the 14th of July, they marched in overpowering
force to attack the Bastile.

In former times the Bastile had been the great fortress of the city; and, as such, it had been
fortified with all the resources of the engineer's art. Massive well-armed towers rose at numerous
points above walls of great height and solidity. A deep fosse surrounded it, and, when well
supplied and garrisoned, it had been regarded with pride by the citizens, as a bulwark capable
of defying the utmost efforts of a foreign enemy, and not the less to be admired because they
never expected it to be exposed to such a test; but as a warlike fortress it had long been
disused. In recent times it had only been known as the State-prison, identified more than any
other with the worst acts of despotism and barbarity. As such it was now as much detested as
it had formerly been respected; and it had nothing but the outward appearance of strength to
resist an attack. Evidently the military authorities had never anticipated the possibility
that the mob would rise to such a height of audacity. But the rioters were now encouraged by
two days of unbroken success, and those who spurred them on were well-informed as well as fearless.
They knew that the castle was in such a state that its apparent strength was its real weakness;
that its entire garrison consisted of little more than a hundred soldiers, most of whom were
superannuated veterans, a force inadequate to man one-tenth of the defenses; and that the governor,
De Launay, though personally brave, was a man devoid of presence of mind, and nervous under
responsibility.

Led by a brewer, named Santerre, who for the next three years bore a conspicuous part in all
the worst deeds of ferocity and horror, they assailed the gates in vast numbers. While the
attention of the scanty garrison was fully occupied by this assault, another party scaled the
walls at a point where there was not even a sentinel to give the alarm, and let down one draw-bridge
across the fosse, while another was loosened, as is believed, by traitors in the garrison itself.
Swarming across the passage thus opened to them, thousands of the assailants rushed in; murdered
the governor, officers, and almost every one of the garrison; and with a savage ferocity, as
yet unexampled, though but a faint omen of their future crimes, they cut off the head and hands
of De Launay and several of their chief victims, and, sticking them on pikes, bore them as
trophies of their victory through the streets of the city.

The news of what had been done came swiftly to Versailles, where it excited feelings in the
Assembly which, had the king or his advisers been capable of availing themselves of it with
skill and firmness, might have led to a salutary change in the policy of that body; for the
greater part of the deputies were thoroughly alarmed at the violence of Santerre and his companions,
and would in all probability have supported the king in taking strong measures for the restoration
of order. But Louis could not be roused, even by the murder of his own faithful servant, to
employ force to save those who might be similarly menaced. The only expedient which occurred
to his mind was to concede all that the rioters required; and at midday on the 15th he repaired
to the Assembly, and announced that he had ordered the removal of the troops from Paris and
from Versailles; declaring that he trusted himself to the Assembly, and wished to identify
himself with the nation. The Assembly could hardly have avoided feeling that it was a strange
time to select for withdrawing the troops, when an armed mob was in possession of the capital;
but, as they had formerly requested that measure, they thought themselves bound    now to applaud
it, and, being for the moment touched by the compliment paid to themselves, when he quit the
Hall they unanimously rose and followed him, escorting him back to the palace with vehement
cheers. A vast crowd filled the outer courts, who caught the contagion, and shouted out a demand
for a sight of the whole royal family; and presently, when the queen brought out on the balcony
her only remaining boy, whom the death of his brother had raised to the rank of dauphin, and
saluted them, with a graceful bow, the whole mass burst out in one vociferous acclamation.

Yet even in that moment of congratulation there were base and malignant spirits in the crowd,
full of bitterness against the royal family, and especially against the queen, whom they had
evidently been taught to regard as the chief obstacle to the reforms which they desired. Her
faithful waiting-woman, Madame de Campan, had gone down into the court-yard and mingled with
the crowd, to be the better able to judge of their real feelings. She could see that many were
disguised; and one woman, whose veil of black lace, with which she concealed her features,
showed that she did not belong to the lowest class, seized her violently by the arm, calling
her by her name, and bid her "go and tell her queen not to interfere any more in the Government,
but to leave her husband and the good States-general to work out the happiness of the people."
Others she heard uttering threats of vengeance against Madame de Polignac. And one, while pouring
forth "a thousand invectives" against both king and queen, declared that it should soon be
impossible to find even a fragment of the throne on which they were now seated.

Marie Antoinette was greatly alarmed, not for herself, but for her husband; and, now that he
had determined on withdrawing the soldiers from the capital, she earnestly entreated him to
accompany them, taking the not unreasonable view that the violence of the Parisian mob would
be to some extent quelled, and the well-intentioned portion of the Assembly would have greater
boldness to support their opinions, if the king were thus placed out of the reach of danger
from any fresh outbreak; and it was generally understood that an attack on Versailles itself
was anticipated.[3] She felt so certain of the wisdom of such a course, and so sanguine of
prevailing, that she packed up her diamonds, burned many of her papers, and drew up a set of
orders for the arrangement of the details of the journey. But on the morning of the 16th she
was compelled to inform Madame Campan that the plan was given up. Large portions of the Parisian
mob, and among them one deputation of the fish-women, who in this, as well as on more festive
occasions, claimed equally to take the lead, had come out to demand that the king should visit
Paris; and the Ministerial Council thought it safer for him to comply with that petition than
to throw himself into the arms of the soldiers, a step which might not improbably lead to a
civil war.

To the queen this seemed the most dangerous course of all. She knew that both at Versailles
and at Paris the agents of the Duke of Orléans had been scattering money with a lavish hand;
and she scarcely doubted that either on his road, or in the city, her husband would be assassinated,
or at the least detained by the mob as a prisoner and a hostage.

Had she not feared to increase his danger, she would have accompanied him; but at such a crisis
it required more courage and fortitude to separate herself from him; and the most courageous
part was ever that which was most natural to her. But, though she took no precautions for herself,
she was as thoughtful as ever for her friends; and, knowing how obnoxious the Duchess de Polignac
was to the multitude, she insisted on her departing with her family. The duchess fled, not
unwillingly; and at the same time others also quit Versailles who had not the same plea of
delicacy of sex to excuse their terrors, and who were bound by every principle of duty to remain
by the king's side the more steadily the greater might be the danger. The Prince de Condé,
who certainly at one time had been a brave man, and had won an honorable name, worthy of his
intrepid ancestor, in the Seven Years' War; his brother, the Prince de Conti; the Count d'Artois,
who, having always been the advocate of the most violent measures, was doubly bound to stand
forward in defense of his king and brother, all fled, setting the first example of that base
emigration which eventually left the king defenseless in the midst of his enemies. The Baron
de Breteuil and some of the ministers made similar provision for their own safety; though it
may be said, as some extenuation of their ignoble flight, that they had no longer any official
duties to detain them, since the king had already dismissed them, and on the evening of the
16th had written to Necker to beg him to return without delay and resume his office, claiming
his instant obedience as a proof of the attachment and fidelity which he had promised when
departing five days before.

On the morning of the 17th, Louis set out for Paris in a single carriage, escorted by a very
slender guard and accompanied by a party of the deputies. He was fully alive to the danger
he was incurring. He knew that threats had been openly uttered that he should not reach Paris
alive;[4] and he had prepared for his journey as for death, burning his papers, taking the
sacrament, and making arrangements for a regency. Marie Antoinette was almost hopeless of his
safety. She sat with her children in her private room, shedding no tears, lest the knowledge
of her grief should increase the alarm of her attendants; but her carriages were kept harnessed,
and she had prepared and learned by heart a short speech, with which, if the worst news which
she apprehended should arrive, she intended to repair to the Assembly, and claim its protection
for the wife and children of their sovereign.[5] But often, as she rehearsed it, her voice,
in spite of all her efforts, was broken by sobs, and her reiterated exclamation, "They will
never let him return!" but too truly expressed the deep forebodings of her heart.

They were not yet fated to be realized; the Insurrection Committee had already organized a
force which they had entitled the National Guard, and of which they had conferred the command
on the Marquis de La Fayette, And at the gates of the city the king was met by him and the
mayor, a man named Bailly, who had achieved a considerable reputation as a mathematician and
an astronomer, but who was thoroughly imbued with the leveling and irreligious doctrines of
the school of the Encyclopedists. No men in Paris were less likely to treat their sovereign
with due respect.

Since his return from America, La Fayette had been living in retirement on his estate, till
at the recent election he had been returned to the States-general as one of the representatives
of the nobles for his native province of Auvergne. He had taken no part in the debates, being
entirely destitute of political abilities;[6] and he had apparently no very distinct political
views, but wavered between a desire for a republic, such, as that of which he had witnessed
the establishment in America, and a feeling in favor of a limited monarchy such as he understood
to exist in Great Britain, though he had no accurate comprehension of its most essential principles.
But his ruling passion was a desire for popularity; and as he had always been vain of his unbending
ill-manners as a proof of his liberal sentiments,[7] and as his vanity made him regard kings
and queens with a general dislike, as being of a rank superior to his own, he looked on the
present occurrence as a favorable opportunity for gaining the good-will of the mob, by showing
marked disrespect to Louis. He would not even pay him the ordinary compliment of appearing
in uniform, but headed his new troops in plain clothes; and even those were not such as belonged
to his rank, but were the ordinary dress of a plain citizen; while Bailly's address, as Louis
entered the gates, was marked with the most studied and gratuitous insolence. "Sire," said
he, "I present to your majesty the keys of your good city of Paris. They are the same which
were presented to Henri IV. He had conquered his people: to-day the people have conquered their
king."

Louis proceeded onward to the Hôtel de Ville, in a strange procession, headed by a numerous
band of fish-women, always prominent, and recruited at every step by a crowd of rough peasant-looking
men, armed with bludgeons, scythes, and every variety of rustic weapons, evidently on the watch
for some opportunity to create a tumult, and seeking to provoke one by raising from time to
time vociferous shouts of "Vive la nation!" and uttering ferocious threats against any one
who might chance to exclaim, "Vive le roi!" But they were disconcerted by the perfect calmness
of the king, on whom danger to himself seemed the only thing incapable of making an impression.
On Bailly's insolent speech he had made no comment, remarking, in a whisper to his principal
attendant, that he had better appear not to have heard it. And now at the Hôtel de Ville his
demeanor was as unruffled as if every thing that had happened had been in perfect accordance
with his wishes. He made a short speech, in which he confirmed all the concessions and promises
which he had previously made. He even placed in his hat a tricolor cockade, which the mayor
had the effrontery to present to him, though it was the emblem of the revolt of his subjects
and of the defeat of his troops. And at last such an effect had his fearless dignity on even
the fiercest of his enemies, that when he afterward came out on the balcony to show himself
to the crowd beneath, the whole mass raised the shout of "Vive le roi!" with as much enthusiasm
as had ever greeted the most feared or the most beloved of his predecessors.

His return to the barrier resembled a triumphal procession. Yet, happy as it seemed that outrage
had thus been averted and unanimity restored, the result of the day can not, perhaps, be deemed
entirely fortunate, since it probably contributed to fix more deeply in the king's mind the
belief that concession to clamor was the course most likely to be successful. Nor did the queen,
though for the moment her despondency was changed to thankful exultation, at all conceal from
herself that the perils which had been escaped were certain to recur; and that vigilance and
firmness would surely again be called for to repel them--qualities which she could find in
herself, but which she might well doubt her ability to impart to others.[8]

Her own attention was for a moment occupied by the necessary work of selecting a new governess
for her children in the place of Madame de Polignac; and after some deliberation her choice
fell on the Marchioness de Tourzel, a lady of the most spotless character, who seems to have
been in every respect well fitted for so important an office. As Marie Antoinette had scarcely
any previous acquaintance with her, it was by her character alone that she had been recommended
to her; as was gracefully expressed in the brief speech with which Marie Antoinette delivered
her little charges into her hands. "Madame," said she, "I formerly intrusted my children to
friendship; to-day I intrust them to virtue;[9]" and, a day or two afterward, to make easier
the task which the marchioness had not undertaken without some unwillingness, she addressed
her a letter in which she describes the character of her son, and her own principles and method
of education, with an impartiality and soundness of judgment which could not have been surpassed
by one who had devoted her whole attention to the subject:

"July 25th, 1789.

"My son is four years and four months old, all but two days. I say nothing of his size nor
of his general appearance; it is only necessary to see him. His health has always been good,
but even in his cradle we perceived that his nerves were very delicate.... This delicacy of
his nerves is such that any noise to which he is not accustomed frightens him. For instance,
he is afraid of dogs because he once heard one bark close to him; and I have never obliged
him to see one, because I believe that, as his reason grows stronger, his fears will pass away.
Like all children who are strong and healthy, he is very giddy, very volatile, and violent
in his passions; but he is a good child, tender, and even caressing, when his giddiness does
not run away with him. He has a great sense of what is due to himself, which, if he be well
managed, one may some day turn to his good. Till he is entirely at his ease with any one, he
can restrain himself, and even stifle his impatience and his inclination to anger, in order
to appear gentle and amiable. He is admirably faithful when once he has promised any thing,
but he is very indiscreet; he is thoughtless in repeating any thing that he has heard; and
often, without in the least intending to tell stories, he adds circumstances which his own
imagination has put into his head. This is his greatest fault, and it is one for which he must
be corrected. However, taken altogether, I say again, he is a good child; and by treating him
with allowance, and at the same time with firmness, which must be kept clear of severity, we
shall always be able to do all that we can wish with him. But severity would revolt him, for
he has a great deal of resolution for his age. To give you an instance: from his very earliest
childhood the word pardon has always offended him. He will say and do all that you can wish
when he is wrong, but as for the word pardon, he never pronounces it without tears and infinite
difficulty.

"I have always accustomed my children to have great confidence in me, and, when they have done
wrong, to tell me themselves; and then, when I scold them, this enables me to appear pained
and afflicted at what they have done rather than angry. I have accustomed them all to regard
'yes' or 'no,' once uttered by me, as irrevocable; but I always give them reasons for my decision,
suitable to their ages, to prevent their thinking that my decision comes from ill-humor. My
son can not read, and he is very slow at learning; but he is too giddy to apply. He has no
pride in his heart, and I am very anxious that he should continue to feel so. Our children
always learn soon enough what they are. He is very fond of his sister, and has a good heart.
Whenever any thing gives him pleasure, whether it be the going anywhere, or that any one gives
him any thing, his first movement always is to ask that his sister may have the same. He is
light-hearted by nature. It is necessary for his health that he should be a great deal in the
open air; and I think it is better to let him play and work in the garden on the terrace, than
to take him longer walks. The exercise which children take in running about and playing in
the open air is much more healthy than forcing them to walk, which often makes their backs
ache.[10]"

Some of these last recommendations may seem to show that the governess was, to some extent,
regarded as a nurse as well as a teacher; and when we find Marie Antoinette complaining of
want of discretion in a child of four years old, it may perhaps be thought that she is expecting
rather more of such tender years than is often found in them; that she is inclined to be overexacting
rather than overindulgent; an error the more venial, since it is probable that the educators
of princes are more likely to go astray in the opposite direction. But it is impossible to
avoid being struck with the candor with which she judges her boy's character, and with the
judiciousness of her system of education; and equally impossible to resist the conviction that
a boy of good disposition, trained by such a mother, had every chance of becoming a blessing
to his subjects, if fate had only allowed him to succeed to the throne which she had still
a right to look forward to for him as his assured inheritance.

Necker had obeyed the king's summons the moment that he received it, and before the end of
the month he returned to Versailles and resumed his office. But, even before the king's dispatch
reached him, Paris had witnessed terrible proofs that the tranquillity which the king's visit
to the capital was supposed to have re-established was but temporary. The populace had broken
out into fresh tumults, murdering some of Breteuil's colleagues with circumstances of frightful
barbarity; while intelligence of similar disturbances in the provinces was constantly arriving.
In Normandy, in Alsace, and in Provence, in the towns, and in the rural districts, the towns-people
and the peasants rose against their wealthier neighbors or their landlords, burning their houses,
and commonly murdering the owners with the most revolting barbarity. Some were torn into pieces;
some were roasted alive; some had actually portions of their flesh cut off and eaten by their
murderers in their own sight, before the blow was given which terminated their agonies. Their
sex did not save ladies from being victims of the same cruelties, nor did it prevent women
from being actors in them.

Yet the horror of these scenes was scarcely stranger than the pusillanimity of those who endured
them unresistingly; for there were not wanting instances of magistrates honest enough to detest,
and courageous enough to chastise, such outrages; and wherever the effort was made it succeeded
so completely as to fix no slight criminality on those who submitted to them. In Dauphiny,
the States of the province raised a small guard, which quelled the first attempts to cause
riots there, and hanged the ringleaders. In Mâcon, a similar force, though not three hundred
strong, encountered a band of brigands, six thousand in number, and brought back two hundred
prisoners, the chiefs of whom were instantly executed, and by their prompt punishment tranquillity
was restored. Similar firmness would have saved other districts, which now allowed themselves
to be the victims of ravage and murder; as afterward it would have preserved the whole country,
even when the madness and wickedness of subsequent years were at their height; for in no part
of the kingdom did those who perpetrated or sympathized with the crimes which have made the
Revolution a by-word, approach the number of those who loathed them, but who had not the courage
or foresight to withstand them. It seemed as if a long course of misgovernment, and the example
of the profligacy and impiety set by the higher classes for many generations, had demoralized
the entire people, some in their excesses discarding the ordinary instincts of human beings;
while the bulk of the nation had lost even that courage which had once been among its most
shining qualities, and had no longer the manliness to resist outrages which they abhorred,
even when their own safety was staked upon their repression.

And similar weakness was exhibited in the Assembly itself; for, unquestionably, the party which
at last prevailed was not that which was originally the strongest. Like most assemblies of
the kind, it was divided into three parties--the extreme Royalists, or "the Right;" the extreme
Reformers (who were subdivided into several sections), or "the Left;" and between them the
moderate Constitutionalists, or "the Plain," as they were called, from occupying seats in the
middle of the hall, between the raised benches on either side. And to the last party belonged
all the men most distinguished either for statesman-like perceptions or for eloquence, Mirabeau
himself agreeing with them in all their leading principles, though he never formally enrolled
himself in the ranks of any party.

The majority of the Constitutionalists were as loyal to the king's person and dignity as the
extreme Royalists; their most eloquent speaker, a young lawyer named Barnave, at the first
opening of the States had even sought to open a direct communication with the court, begging
Madame de Lamballe[1] to assure the queen of the wish of himself and all his friends to maintain
the king in the full enjoyment and exercise of what he called a Constitutional authority, borrowing
the idea and expression from the English Government. But though Marie Antoinette had no objection
to the king of his own accord renouncing portions of the power which had been claimed and exerted
by his predecessors, she would not hear of the States taking upon themselves to impose such
sacrifices on him, or to curtail his authority by any exercise of their own; and she rejected
with something like disdain the support of those whose alliance was only to be purchased on
such conditions. Barnave, like Mirabeau, felt insulted; determined to revenge himself, and
for a while united himself to the fiercest of the Republicans; while the Right, with incredible
folly, often played into his hand, joining the Left, of which many members avowedly aimed at
the abolition of royalty, and with none of whom they had one opinion or sentiment in common
to defeat the Constitutionalists, with whom they practically had but very slight differences.
And thus, as with a base pusillanimity, many, both of the Right and of the Plain, fled from
the country after the tumults of October, the mastery of the Assembly gradually fell into the
hands of that party which contained by far fewer men of ability or honesty than either of the
others, but which surpassed them both in distinctness of object, and in unscrupulous resolution
to carry out its views.

But the events of July, the mutiny of the troops, the successful insurrection of the mob, the
destruction of the Bastile, and the visit of Louis to Paris, had been a series of damaging
blows to the Government; and as each successive exploit gave encouragement to the movement
party, events proceeded with extreme rapidity. Necker, who returned to Versailles on the 27th
of July, showed more clearly than ever his unfitness for the chief post in the administration
at such a crisis, by devoting himself solely to financial arrangements, and omitting to take,
on the part of the crown, the initiative in any one of the reforms which the king had promised.
Those he permitted to be intrusted to a committee of the Assembly; and the committee had scarcely
met when the Assembly took the matter into its own hands; and in a strange panic, and at a
single sitting, swept away the privileges of both Nobles and clergy, those who seemed personally
most concerned in their maintenance being the foremost in urging their suppression. A member
of the oldest nobility proposed the abolition of the privileges of the Nobles. A bishop moved
the extinction of tithes; Bretons, Burgundians, Provençals, renounced for their fellow- citizens
the old distinctions and immunities to which each province had hitherto clung with an unyielding
if somewhat unreasoning attachment; and the whole was crowned by the Archbishop of Paris proposing
a celebration of the Te Deum, as an expression of gratitude to God for having inspired a series
of actions calculated to confer so much happiness on the nation.

Though he could not avoid seeing the mischievous character of many of the resolutions thus
tumultuously passed, and though his royal assent to them was asked in language unceremonious
and almost peremptory in its curtness, Louis could not bring himself, or perhaps did not venture,
to refuse his sanction to them. He had laid down a rule for himself to refuse no concession
except such as on religious grounds his conscience might revolt from; and on the 18th he signified
his formal acceptance of the resolutions, and of the title of "Restorer of French Liberty."
It was an act of great weakness, and was rewarded, as such acts generally are, by further encroachments
on his authority. The progress of the Left was not even arrested by a quarrel between some
of its members (who, being clergymen, were not inclined to be reduced to beggary by the extinction
of their incomes), and Mirabeau, who, not unnaturally, bore the priests especial ill-will.
Before the end of the month, the Assembly even deprived the king of the power of withholding
his assent from measures which it might pass, enacting that he should no longer possess an
absolute "veto," as it was called, and Necker, exhibiting on this question an incapacity more
glaring than even his former conduct had displayed, induced the king to yield this point also;
and to express his own preference for what its contrivers called a suspensive veto--a power,
that is, of withholding his assent to any measure till it had been passed by two successive
Assemblies. The discussions on this most momentous point had been very vehement in the Assembly
itself; and, besides the greatness of the principle involved in the decision, they have a peculiar
importance as showing that Mirabeau had not the absolute power over the minds of the members
which he believed himself to possess; since he contended with all the energy of his temper,
and with irresistible force of argument, against a vote which, as he declared, could only take
the power from the king to vest it in the Assembly, and yet was wholly unable to carry more
than a small minority with him in his opposition.

And this defeat may have had some share in prompting him to countenance and aid, if indeed
he was not the original contriver of, a plot which was undoubtedly intended to produce a change
in the whole frame-work of the Government. The harvest had been bad, and at the beginning of
September Paris was suffering under a scarcity almost as severe as had ever been felt in the
depth of winter. The emergency was so great that the king sent all his plate to the Mint to
be melted down, to procure money to purchase food for the starving citizens; and many patriotic
individuals, Necker himself being among the most munificent, gave their plate and jewels for
the same benevolent object. But relief procured from such sources was unavoidably of too limited
a character to last long. Though Necker proposed and the Assembly voted taxes of prodigious
amount, they could not at once be made available, and some of the lower classes were said to
have died of actual famine. In their distress the citizens looked to the king, and attributed
their misery in a great degree to his ignorance of their situation, which was caused by his
living at Versailles. They nicknamed him the "Baker," as if he could supply them with bread,
and began to clamor for him at least to take up an occasional residence among them in in his
capital. From raising a cry, the step was easy to organize a riot to compel him to do so. And
to this object the partisans of the Duke of Orleans, assisted, if not prompted, by Mirabeau,
now began to apply themselves, hoping that the result would be the deposition of Louis and
the enthronement of the duke, who might be glad to take the great orator for his prime minister.

So certain did the conspirators feel of success, that they took no pains to keep their machinations
secret. As early as the middle of September intelligence was received at Versailles that the
Parisians would march upon that town in force, on the 5th of October; and the Assembly was
greatly alarmed, believing, not without reason, that the object of the intended attack was
to overawe and overbear them. The magistrates of the town were even more terrified, and besought
the king to bring up at least one regiment for their protection. And, prudent and reasonable
as the request was, the compliance with it furnished the agents of sedition with pretexts for
further violence.

A regiment, known as that of Flanders, was sent for from the frontiers, and speedily arrived
at Versailles, when, according to their old and hospitable fashion, the Body-guard,[2] who
regarded Versailles as their home, invited the officers, and with them the officers of the
Swiss Guard, and those of the town militia also, to a banquet on the 1st of October. The opera-house,
as had often been done in similar instances, was lent for the occasion; and the boxes were
filled with the chief ladies of the court and of the town, and also with many members of the
Assembly, as spectators. So enthusiastic were the acclamations that greeted the toast of the
king's health, that, though Marie Antoinette had previously desired that the royal family should
not appear to have any connection with the entertainment, the captain of the guard, the Count
de Luxembourg, had no difficulty in persuading her that it would but be a graceful recognition
of such spontaneous and sincere loyalty at such a time if she were to honor the banquet with
her presence, though but by the briefest visit. Louis, too, accepted the proposal with greater
warmth than usual, and when the royal pair with their children--the queen, as was her custom,
leading one in each hand--descended from their apartments and walked through the banquet-hall,
the enthusiasm was redoubled. The spectators, among whom were many members of the Assembly,
caught the contagion. Loyal cheers resounded from every part of the theatre, and the feelings
excited became so fervid that some officers of the National Guard, who were among the guests,
reversed their new tricolor cockade, and, displaying the white side outermost, seemed to have
resumed the time-honored badge under which the army had reaped all its old glories. The band
struck up a favorite air from one of the new operas, "Peut-on affliger ce qu'on aime?" which
those who saw the anxiety which recent events had already stamped upon the queen's majestic
brow could hardly avoid applying to their royal mistress; and when it followed it up by Blondel's
lamentation for Richard, "O Richard, O mon roi, l'univers t'abandonne," the first notes of
the well-known song touched a chord in every heart, and the whole company, courtiers, ladies,
soldiers, and deputies, were all carried away in a perfect delirium of loyal rapture. The whole
company escorted the royal family back to their apartments; though it was remarked afterward
that some of the soldiers, who on this occasion were the most vociferous in their exultation,
were, before the end of the same week, among the most furious threateners and assailants of
the palace.

But a demonstration such as this, in which the whole number of the soldiers concerned did not
exceed fifteen hundred men, could not deter the organizers of the impending riot from carrying
out their plan: if it did not even aid them by the opportunities which it afforded for spreading
abroad exaggerated accounts of what had taken place, as an additional proof of the settled
hatred and contempt which the court entertained for the people. Mirabeau had suggested that
the best chance of success for an insurrection in Paris lay in placing women at its head; and,
in compliance with his hint, at day-break on the appointed morning a woman of notorious infamy
of character moved toward the chief market-place of Paris, beating a drum, and calling on all
who heard her to follow her.[3] She soon gathered round her a troop of followers worthy of
such a leader, market- women, fish-women, and men in women's clothes, whose deep voices, and
the power with which they brandished their weapons, betrayed their sex through their disguise.

One man, Maillard, who had been conspicuous as one of the fiercest of the stormers of the Bastile,
disdained any concealment or dress but his own; they chose him for their leader, mingling with
their cries for bread horrid threats against the queen and the aristocrats. Their numbers increased
till they felt themselves strong enough to attack the Hôtel de Ville. A detachment of the National
Guard who were on duty offered them no resistance, pleading that they had received no orders
from La Fayette; and the rioters, now amounting to many thousands, having armed themselves
from the store of muskets and swords which they found in the armory, passed on to the barrier
and took the road to Versailles.

The riot had lasted four hours, and the very last of the rioters had already passed through
the gates before La Fayette reached the Hôtel de Ville, though his office of Commander of the
National Guard made the preservation of tranquillity one of his most especial duties. He had
evidently feared to risk his popularity by resisting the mob, and even now he refused to act
at all till be had received a written order from the Municipal Council; and, when he had obtained
that, he did not obey it; but preferred complying with the demands of his own soldiers, who
insisted on following the rioters to Versailles, where they would exterminate the regiment
of Flanders; bring the king back to Paris; and perhaps depose him and appoint a Regent. Yet
even this open avowal of their treasonable views did not deter their unworthy general from
submitting to their dictates. He had indeed no desire for the success of their designs; for
he had no connection with the Duc d'Orléans, and no inclination to co-operate with Mirabeau,
who he knew was in the habit of speaking of him with contempt; but he had not firmness to resist
their demand. His vanity, too, always his most predominant feeling, was flattered by the desire
they expressed to retain him as their commander, and at last he procured from the magistrates
a fresh order, authorizing him to comply with the soldiers' clamor, and to lead them to Versailles.

When before the magistrates he had professed an expectation that he should be able to induce
the king to comply with the wishes of the Assembly, and a determination to restrain the excesses
of the mob; but the whole day had been so wasted by his irresolution that when he at last put
his regiment in motion it was seven o'clock in the evening--full four hours after Maillard
and his fish-women had reached Versailles. The news of their approach and of their designs
had been brought to the palace by Monsieur de Chinon, the eldest son of the Duc de Richelieu,
who, at great personal risk, had disguised himself as an artisan, and had marched some way
with the crowd to learn their object. He reported that even the women and children were armed,
that the great majority were drunk; that they were beguiling the way with the most ferocious
threats, and that they had been joined by a gang of men who gave themselves the name of "Coupe-têtes,"
and boasted that they should have ample opportunity of proving their title to it.

In addition to the warnings previously received, a rumor had reached the palace on the preceding
evening that the Duc d'Orléans had come down to Versailles in disguise,[4] a movement which
could hardly have an innocent object; but so little heed had been given to the intelligence,
or, it may perhaps be said, so little was it supposed that, if such an attack was really meditated,
any warning would have been given, that Monsieur de Chinon found the palace empty. Louis had
gone to hunt in the Bois de Meudon; Marie Antoinette was at the Little Trianon. But messengers
easily found them. The queen came in with speed from her garden, which she was destined never
to behold again; the king hastened hack from his coverts; and by the time that they returned,
the Count de St. Priest, the Minister of the Household, had their carriages ready for them
to retire to Rambouillet, and he earnestly pressed the adoption of such a course. Louis, as
usual, could not make up his mind. He sat in his chair, repeating that it was a moment to think
seriously. "Rather," said Marie Antoinette, "say that it is a time to act promptly." He would
gladly have had her depart with her children, but she refused to leave him, declaring that
her place was by his side; that, as the daughter of Maria Teresa, she did not fear death; and
after a time he changed his mind and ceased to wish even her to retire, clinging to his old
conviction that conciliation was always possible. He believed that he had won over even the
worst of the mob, and that all danger was past.

Versailles witnessed a strange scene that morning. The moment that the mob reached the town,
they forced their way into the Assembly Hall, where Maillard, as their spokesman, after terrifying
the members with ferocious threats against the whole body of the Nobles, demanded that the
Assembly should send a deputation to the king to represent to him the distress of the people,
and that a party of the women should accompany it. Louis consented to receive them, and when
they reached the palace, the women, disorderly and ferocious as they were, were so awed by
the magnificence and pomp which they beheld, and by the actual presence of the king and queen,
that they could only summon up a few modest and humble words of petition, and one, a young
and pretty girl of seventeen, fainted with the excitement. One of the princesses brought her
a glass of water: she recovered, and, as she knelt to kiss the king's hand, Louis kissed her
himself, and, transported by his affability, she and her companions quit the apartment, uttering
loud cheers for the king and queen. But this had not been the impression which their leaders
had intended them to receive; and, when they reached the streets, their new-born loyalty so
exasperated their comrades that the soldiers had some difficulty in saving them from their fury.

Meanwhile, the mob increased every hour. They occupied the court-yard of the palace, roaring
out ferocious threats, the most sanguinary of which were directed against the queen. The President
of the Assembly moved that the members should adjourn and repair to the palace for the protection
of the royal family, but Mirabeau resisted the proposal, and procured its rejection; and when
a large party of the members went, as individuals, to place their services at the king's disposal,
he mingled with the rioters, tampering with the soldiers, and urging them to espouse what he
called the cause of the people. As it grew dark, the crowd grew more and more tumultuous and
violent. The Body-guard, who were all gentlemen, were faithful and fearless; but it began to
be seen that none of the other troops, not even the regiment of Flanders, could be trusted.
Some of them even fired on the Body-guard, and mortally wounded its commander, the Marquis
de Savonières; while Louis, adhering to his unhappy policy of conciliation even at such a moment,
sent down orders to the officer who succeeded to the command that the men were not to use their
weapons, and that all bloodshed was to be avoided. "Tell the king," replied M. d'Huillier,
"that his orders shall be obeyed; but that we shall all be assassinated."

The mob grew fiercer when it became known that La Fayette and his regiment were approaching.
No one knew what course he might take, but the ringleaders of the rioters resolved on a strenuous
effort to render his arrival useless by their previous success. Guns were fired, heavy blows
were dealt on the railings of the inner court-yard and on the gates; and the danger seemed
so imminent that the mob might force its way into the palace, that the deputies themselves
besought the king to delay no longer, but to retire to Rambouillet. He was still irresolute,
and still trusting to his plan of conciliating by non-resistance. The queen, though more earnest
than ever that he should depart, still nobly adhered to her own view of duty, and refused to
leave him; but, hoping that he might change his mind, she gave a written order to keep the
carriages harnessed, and to prepare to force a passage for them if the life of the king should
appear to be in danger; but, she added, they were not to be used if she alone were threatened.

At last, when it was nearly midnight, La Fayette arrived. With a singular perverseness of folly,
at a time when every moment was of consequence, he had halted his men a mile out of the town
to make them a speech in praise of himself and his own loyalty, and to administer to them an
oath to be faithful to the nation, to the law, and to the king; an oath needless if they were
inclined to keep it; useless, if they were not; and in the state of feeling then common, mischievous
in the order in which he ranged the powers to which he required them to profess allegiance.
At last he reached the palace. Leaving his men below, he ascended to the king's apartments,
and, laying his hand on his heart, assured the king that he had no more loyal servant than
himself. Louis was not given to sarcasm: yet some of the bystanders fancied that there was
a tone of irony in his voice when in reply he expressed his conviction of the marquis's sincerity;
and perhaps La Fayette thought so too, for he proceeded to harangue his majesty on his favorite
subject of his own courage; describing the dangers which, as he affirmed, he had incurred in
the course of the day. After which he descended into the court-yard to assure the soldiers
that the king had promised to accede to their wishes; and then returned to the royal apartments
to inform the king that contentment was restored, and that he himself would be responsible
for the tranquillity of the night.

The royal family, exhausted with the fatigues of so terrible a day, retired to rest, the queen
expressly enjoining her ladies to follow her example. Fortunately they were too anxious for
her safety to obey her, and, with their own attendants, kept watch in the room outside her
bed-chamber. But La Fayette, in spite of the responsibility which he had taken upon himself,
felt no such anxiety. He declared himself tired and sleepy; and, leaving the palace, went to
a friend's house to ask for a bed.[5] Yet he well knew that the crowd was still assembled around
the palace, and was increasing in violence. Though the night was stormy and wet, the rioters
sought no shelter except such as was afforded by a hurried resort to the wine-shops in the
neighborhood, where they inflamed their intoxication, and from which they soon returned to
renew their savage clamor and threats, increasing the disorder by keeping up a frequent fire
of their muskets. Throughout the night the Duc d'Orléans was briskly going to and fro, his
emissaries scattering money among the rioters, who seemed to have no definite purpose or plan,
till, as day began to break, one of the gates leading into the Princes' Court was seen to be
open. It had been intrusted to some of La Fayette's soldiers, and could not have been opened
without treachery. The crowd poured in, uttering fiercer threats than ever, from the belief
that their prey was within their reach. There was, in truth, nothing between them and the staircase
which led to the royal apartments except two gallant gentlemen, M. des Huttes and M. Moreau,
the sentries of the detachment of the Body- guard on duty, whose quarters were at the head
of the staircase in a saloon opposite to the queen's chamber. But these brave men were worthy
of the best days of the French army. The more formidable the mob, and the greater the danger,
the more imperative to their loyal hearts was the duty to defend those whose safety was intrusted
to their vigilance; and with so dauntless a front did they stand to their posts that for a
moment the ruffians recoiled and shrunk from attacking them, till D'Orléans himself came forward,
waving to them with his hand a signal to force the way in, and pointing out to them which way
to take.

What, then, could two men effect against such a multitude? Des Huttes perished, pierced by
a hundred pikes, and torn into pieces by his blood- thirsty assailants. Moreau, with equal
valor, but with better fortune, backed up the stairs, fighting so desperately as he retreated
that he gave his comrades time to barricade the doors leading to the queen's apartments, and
to come to his assistance. As they drew him back, terribly wounded, into the guardroom, De
Varicourt and Durepaire took his place. De Varicourt was soon slain, but Durepaire, a man of
prodigious strength and prowess, held the assassins at bay for some time, till he too fell,
reduced to helplessness by a score of deep wounds; when he, in his turn, was replaced by Miomandre.
His devotion and intrepidity equaled that of his comrades; he was eminently skillful also in
the use of his weapons, and with his own hand he struck down many of his assailants, till he
was gradually forced back by numbers, when he placed his musket as a barrier across the door-way,
and thus still kept his enemies at bay, while he shouted to the queen's ladies, now separated
from him by but a single partition, to save the queen, for "the tigers with whom he was struggling
were aiming at her life."

In the annals of the ancient chivalry of the nation it had been recorded as the most brilliant
feat of Bayard, that, on a bridge of the Garigliano, he had for a while, with his single arm,
stemmed the onset of two hundred Spaniards; and that glorious exploit of the model hero of
the nation had never been more faithfully copied and more nobly rivaled than it was on this
morning of shame and danger by Miomandre and his intrepid comrades, as they successively stepped
into the breach to fight against those whom he truly called, not men, but tigers. It was but
a brief moment before he too was struck down; but he had gained for the ladies a respite sufficient
to enable them to secure the safety of their royal mistress. They roused her from her bed,
for her fatigue had been so great that she had hitherto slept soundly through the uproar, and
hurried her off to the apartments of the king, who, having in been just similarly awakened,
was coming to seek her; and in a few minutes the whole family was collected in his antechamber;
while the Body-guard occupied the queen's bedroom, and the rioters, balked of their intended
victim, were pillaging the different rooms into which they had been able to make their way.
Luckily, La Fayette was still absent: he was having his hair dressed with great composure,
while the mob, for whose contentment and orderly behavior he had vouched, was plundering the
royal palace and seeking its owners to murder them; and in his absence the Marquis de Vaudreuil
and a body of nobles took upon themselves the office of defenders of the crown, and, going
down to the court-yard, reproached the National Guard with their inaction at such a moment
of danger, and with their manifest sympathy with the rioters. At first, out of mere shame,
the National Guard attempted to justify themselves: "they had been told," they said, "that
the Body-guard were the aggressors; that they had attacked the people." "Do you pretend to
believe," said the gallant marquis, "that two hundred men have been mad enough to attack thirty
thousand?" The argument was irresistible; they declared that if the Body-guard would assume
the tricolor, they would stand by them as brothers. And, by a reaction not uncommon at such
times of excitement, the two regiments became reconciled in a moment. As no tricolor cockades
could be procured, they exchanged shakos, and, in many cases, arms. And presently, when the
Coup-têtes, after mutilating the bodies of two of the Body-guard who had been killed on the
previous evening, were preparing to murder two or three more who had fallen into their hands,
the National Guard dashed to their rescue, shouting out, with a curious identification of their
force with the old French army, that "they would save the Body-guard who saved them at Fontenoy,"
and brought them off unhurt.

Balked of their expected prey, the rioters grew more furious than ever; in useless wrath they
kept firing against the walls of the palace, and shouting out a demand for the queen to show
herself. She, with her children, was still in the king's apartment, where the princesses, the
ministers, and a few courtiers were also assembled. Necker, in an agony of terror and distress,
sat with his face buried in his hands, unable to offer any advice; La Fayette, who had just
arrived, dwelt upon the dangers which he had run, though no one else knew what they were, and
assured the king of the power which he still possessed to allay the tumult, if the reasonable
demands of the people (as he called them) were granted. Marie Antoinette alone was undaunted
and calm; or, at least, if in the depths of her woman's heart she felt terror at the sanguinary
and obscene threats of her ruffianly enemies, she scorned to show it. When the firing began,
M. de Luzerne, one of the ministers, had quietly placed himself between her and the window;
but, while she thanked him for his devotion, she begged him to retire, saying, with her habitually
gracious courtesy, that it was her place to be there,[6] not his, since the king could not
afford to have so faithful a servant endangered. And now, holding her little son and daughter,
one in each hand, she stepped out on the balcony, to confront those who were shouting for her
blood. "No children!" was their cry. She led the dauphin and his sister back into the room,
and, returning to the balcony, stood before them alone, with her hands crossed and her eyes
looking up to heaven, as one who expected instant death, with a firmness as far removed from
defiance as from supplication. Even those ruthless miscreants were awed by her magnanimous
fearlessness; not a shot was fired; for a moment it seemed as if her enemies had become her
partisans. Loud shouts of "Bravo!" and "Long live the queen!" were heard on all sides; and
one ruffian, who raised his gun to take aim at her, had his weapon beaten down by those who
stood near him, and ran some risk of being himself sacrificed to their indignation. But this
impulse of respect, like other impulses of such a people, was short-lived, and presently the
multitude began to raise a shout, which expressed the original purpose which had led the majority
to march upon Versailles. "To Paris!" was the cry, and again La Fayette volunteered his advice,
urging the king to comply with the request. By this time Louis had learned the value of the
marquis's loyalty. But he had no alternative. It was evident that the rioters had the power
of compelling compliance with their demand. And accordingly he authorized the marquis to promise
that he would remove his family to Paris, and a few minutes afterward he himself went out on
the balcony with the queen, and himself announced his intention, with the view of giving his
act a greater appearance of being voluntarily resolved upon.

Soon after midday he set out, accompanied by the queen, his brother the Count de Provence,
his sister the Princess Elizabeth, and his children. It was a strange and shameful retinue
that escorted the King of France to his capital. One party of the rioters, with Maillard and
another ruffian named Jourdan, the chief of the Coupe-têtes, at their head, had started two
hours before, bearing aloft in triumph the heads of the mangled Body-guards, and combining
such hideous mockery with their barbarity that they halted at Sèvres to compel a barber to
dress the hair on the lifeless skulls. And now the royal carriage was surrounded by a vast
and confused medley; market-women and the rest of the female rabble, with drunken gangs of
the ruffians who had stormed the palace in the morning, still brandishing their weapons, or
bearing loaves of bread on their pike-heads, and singing out that they should all have enough
of bread now, since they were bringing the baker, the bakeress, and the baker's boy to Paris.[7]
The only part of the procession that bore even a decent appearance was a small escort of 'different
regiments--the Guards, the National Guards, and the Body-guards; many of the latter still bleeding
from the wounds which they had received in the conflict and tumult of the morning. A train
of carriages containing a deputation of the members of the Assembly also followed; Mirabeau
himself having just earned a motion that the Assembly was inseparable from the king, and that
wherever he was there must be the place of meeting for the great council of the nation. Yet,
in spite of the confidence which their presence might have been expected to diffuse among the
mob, and in spite of the hopes of coming plenty which the rioters themselves announced, the
royal party was not even yet safe from further attacks. Some ruffians stabbed at the royal
carriage as it passed with their pikes, and several shots were fired at it, though fortunately
they missed their aim and no one was injured.[8]

To the queen the journey was more painful than to any one else. A few weeks before she had
congratulated Mademoiselle de Lamballe on not being a mother--perhaps the bitterest exclamation
that grief and anxiety ever wrung from her lips; and now the keenest anxieties of a mother
were indeed added to those of a queen. The procession moved with painful slowness. No provisions
had been taken in the carriage, and the little dauphin was suffering from hunger and begging
for some food. Tears, which her own danger could not bring to her eyes, flowed plentifully
as she witnessed the suffering of her child. She could only beg him to bear his privations
with patience; and she had the reward of the pains she had always taken to inspire him with
confident in her, in the fortitude with which, for the rest of the day, he bore what to children
of his age is probably the severest hardship to which they can be exposed.[9]

So vast and disorderly was the procession that it was nine o'clock at night before it reached
Paris. Bailly again met the royal carriage at the barrier, and, re-assuming the tone of coarse
insult which he had adopted on the king's previous visit, had the effrontery to describe the
day so full of horror to every one, and of humiliation and agony to those whom he was addressing,
as a glorious day. It was at such moments as these that Louis's impassibility assumed the character
of dignity. He disdained to notice the mayor's insolence, and briefly answered that it was
always with pleasure and with confidence that he found himself among the inhabitants of his
good city of Paris. He proceeded to the Hôtel de Ville, where the council of civic magistrates
was sitting; and where the president addressed him in language which afforded a marked contrast
to that of the mayor, calling him "an adored father who had come to visit the place where he
could meet with the greatest number of his children." And it seemed as if Bailly himself had
become in some degree ashamed of his insolence; for now, when Louis desired him, in reply to
the president's address, to repeat the answer which he had made to him at the barrier, he merely
said that the king had come with pleasure among the Parisians. "The king, sir," interrupted
the queen, "added, 'and with confidence.'" "Gentlemen," said Bailly, "you hear her majesty's
words. You are happier in doing so than if I myself had uttered them." The whole company burst
into one rapturous cheer, and at their request the king and queen showed themselves for a few
minutes at the windows, beneath which, late as the hour was, a vast multitude was still collected,
which received them with vociferous cheers. And then the royal family, quitting the Hotel,
drove to the Tuileries, where their attendants had been hastily making such preparations as
a few hours allowed for their reception.

Since the completion of the Palace at Versailles the Tuileries had been almost deserted.[10]
The paint and gilding were tarnished, the curtains were faded, many most necessary articles
of furniture were altogether wanting; and the whole was so shabby that it attracted the notice
of even the little dauphin. "How bad, mamma," said he, "every thing looks here." "My boy,"
she replied, "Louis XIV. lived here comfortably enough." But they had not yet decided on making
it their permanent residence. La Fayette, who had tried to induce the king to promise to do
so, had been distinctly refused; and for some days Louis did not make up his mind. But, after
a time, the fear, if he should propose to return, to Versailles, of being met by an opposition
on the part of the Assembly or the civic magistrates, which he might be unable to surmount,
or, if he should again settle there, of his absence from the city furnishing a pretext for
fresh tumults, caused him to announce his intention of making Paris his principal abode for
the future. He gave orders for the removal of some furniture and of the queen's library to
the Tuileries; and, with something of the apathy of despair, began to reconcile himself to
his new abode and his changed position.

The comment made by Marie Antoinette on quitting Versailles was that "they were undone; they
were being dragged off, perhaps to death, which was never far removed from captive sovereigns;[1]"
and such henceforward was her prevailing feeling. She may occasionally, prompted by her own
innate courage and sanguineness of disposition, have cherished a short-lived hope, founded
on a consciousness of the king's and her own purity of intention, or on a belief, which she
never wholly discarded, in the natural goodness of heart of the French people when not led
astray by demagogues; and of their impulsive levity of disposition, which seemed to make no
change of temper on their part impossible; but her general feeling was one of humiliation for
the past and despair for the future. Not only did the example of Charles I., whose fate was
ever before her eyes, fill her with dread for her husband's life (to her own danger she never
gave a thought), but she felt also that the cause and principle of royalty had been degraded
by the shameful scenes through which she had lately passed; and we shall fail to do justice
to the patience, fortitude, and energy of her conduct during the remainder of her life, if
we allow ourselves to forget that these high qualities were maintained and exerted in spite
of the most depressing circumstances and the most discouraging convictions; that she was struggling
because it was her duty to struggle for her husband's honor and her child's inheritance; but
that she was never long sustained by that incentive which, with so many, is absolutely indispensable
to steady and useful exertion--the anticipation of eventual success.

A letter which the very next morning she wrote to Mercy, who fortunately still retained his
old post as embassador, shows the courage with which she still caught at every circumstance
which seemed in the least hopeful; and with what unfaltering tact she sought every opportunity
of acting on the impulsiveness which she regarded as one chief characteristic of the French people.

"October 7th, 1789.

"I am quite well. You may be easy about me. If we could only forget where we are and how we
came here, we ought to be satisfied with the feelings of the people, especially this morning.
I hope, if bread does not fall short, that many things will return to their proper order. I
speak to the people, militia, fish-women, and all: all offer me their hands; I give them mine.
In the Hôtel de Ville I was personally well received. The people this morning begged us to
remain here. I answered them, speaking for the king, who was by my side, that it depended on
themselves whether we remained; that we desired nothing better; that all animosities must be
laid aside; that the slightest renewal of bloodshed would make us flee, with horror. Those
who were nearest to me swore that all that was over. I told the fish-women to go and tell others
all that we had just said to one another.[2]"

And a day or two later, on the 10th, even while giving fuller expression to her feelings of
unhappiness, and of disgust at the events of the past week, as to which she assures Mercy that
"no description could be exaggerated; on the contrary, that any account must fall far short
of what the king and she had seen and experienced," she yet repeats that "she hopes to bring
back to a right feeling the honest and sound portion of the citizens and people. Unhappily,
however," as she adds, "they are not the most numerous body. Still, with gentleness and unwearied
patience, she may hope that at least she shall succeed in doing away with the horrible distrust
which occupies every mind, and which has dragged the king and herself into the gulf in which
they are at present." So keen at this time was her feeling that one principal cause of their
miseries was the unjust distrust which the citizens in general conceived of the views and designs
of the court, that she desires Mercy not to try to see her; and, while she describes the scantiness
of the accommodation which her attendants had as yet been able to provide for her, so that
Madame Royale had a bed in her dressing-room, and the little dauphin was in her own room, she
finds advantage in these arrangements, inconvenient as they were, since they prevented any
suspicion from arising that she was giving audiences which she desired to keep secret.

She did not overrate the impression which she had made on the people; and her faithful attendant,
Madame Campan, has preserved more minute details of the events of the 7th than she herself
reported to the embassador. She was hardly dressed when a huge crowd collected on the terrace
under her window, shouting for her to show herself; and, when she came forward, they began
to accost her in a mingled tone of expostulation and menace. "She must drive away the courtiers
who were the ruin of kings. She must love the inhabitants of her good city." She replied "that
she had always felt so toward them; she had loved them while at Versailles; she should continue
to love them at Paris." "Ah," interrupted a virago, hardier than her companions, "but on the
14th of July you would have besieged and bombarded the city; and on the 6th of October you
wanted to flee to the frontier." She answered, in the gentlest tone, that "these were idle
stories, which they were wrong to believe; tales like these were what caused at once the misery
of the people and that of the best of kings." Another woman addressed her in German. Marie
Antoinette declared that "she did not understand what she said; that she had become so completely
French that she had forgotten her native language;" and the compliment to their country fairly
vanquished them. They received it with shouts of "Bravo," and with loud clapping of their hands.
They begged the ribbons and flowers of her bonnet. She took them off with her own hand and
distributed them among them; and they divided the spoils with thankful exultation, smiling,
waving their hands, and crying out, "Long live Marie Antoinette! Long live our good queen![3]"

For a time it seemed as if the fortunes of the king and country were being weighed in an uncertain
balance. One day some circumstances seemed to hold out a prospect of the re-establishment of
tranquillity, and of the return of the masses to a better feeling. The next day these favorable
appearances were more than counterbalanced by fresh evidences of the increasing power of the
factious and unscrupulous demagogues. It was greatly in favor of the crown that the triumph
of the mob on the 6th of October had led to violent quarrels between the Duc d'Orléans, La
Fayette, and Mirabeau. La Fayette had charged the duke with having entered into a plot to assassinate
him, and threatened to impeach him formally if he did not at once quit the kingdom.[4] The
duke trembled and consented, easily procuring from the ministers, who were glad to get rid
of him, a diplomatic mission to England as a pretext for his departure; and Mirabeau, who despised
both the duke and the marquis, full of contempt for the pusillanimity which the former had
shown in the quarrel, abandoned all idea of placing him on his cousin's throne. "Make him my
king!" he exclaimed; "I would not have him for my valet."

Emboldened by his success with the duke, La Fayette, who had great confidence in his own address,
next tried to win over or to get rid of Mirabeau himself. He proposed to obtain an embassy
for him also. The suggestion of what was clearly an honorable exile in disguise was at once
declined.[5] He then offered him a large sum of money, for at that moment he had the entire
disposal of the civil list; but he found that the great orator was disinclined to connect himself
with him in any way, much more to lay himself under any obligation to him. In fact, Mirabeau
was at this moment hoping to obtain a post in the home administration, where, if he could once
succeed in procuring a footing, he had no doubt of soon obtaining the entire mastery; and the
royal family was hardly settled at the Tuileries before he applied to his friend, the Count
de la Marck, whom he rightly believed to enjoy the queen's good opinion, begging him to express
to her his ardent wish to serve her. He even drew up a long memorial on the existing state
of affairs, indicating the line of conduct which, in his opinion, the king ought to pursue;
the leading feature of which was an early departure from Paris to some city at no great distance,
that he might be safe and free; while in the capital it was evident that he was neither. And
the step which he thus recommended at the outset deserves attention as being also that on which
a year later he still insisted as the indispensable preliminary to whatever line of conduct
might be decided on.

But at this moment his advice never reached those for whom it was intended. La Marck, with
all his good-will both to his friend and to the court, could not venture to bring before the
queen's notice the name of one who, only a few days before, had denounced her in the foulest
manner in the Assembly for having appeared at the soldiers' banquet, and whom she with her
own eyes had beheld uniting with the assailants of the palace. He thought it more politic,
even for the eventual attainment of his friend's objects, to content himself for the time with
giving the memorial and stating the views of the writer to the Count de Provence; and that
prince declared that it would be useless to bring it to the knowledge of either king or queen:
"that the queen had not sufficient influence over her husband to induce him to adopt such a
plan;" and he even hinted that at times Louis was disposed to be jealous of her appearing to
influence him.

But if these circumstances--the quarrel between the enemies of the court, and the conversion
of one more able and formidable than either--were in the king's favor, other events which took
place in the same few weeks were full of mischief and danger. Before the end of the month fresh
riots broke out in Paris. Bread, the supply of which Marie Antoinette, as we have seen, rightly
regarded as a matter of the first importance to the tranquillity of the city, continued scarce
and dear; and the mob broke open the bakers' shops, and murdered one baker, a man named François,
with a ferocity more terrible than they had even shown toward De Launay, or the guards at Versailles.
They tore his body to pieces, and, having cut off his head, compelled his wife to kiss the
scarcely cold lips, and then left her fainting on the pavement still covered with his blood.
Even La Fayette was horror-stricken at such brutality. It was the only occasion on which he
did his duty during the whole progress of the Revolution. He came down with a company of the
National Guard, dispersed the rioters, seized the ruffian who was bearing aloft, the head of
the murdered man on a pole, and caused him to be hanged the next day. And during the next few
weeks he more than once brought his soldiers to the support of the civil power, and inflicted
summary punishment on gangs of miscreants, whose idea of reform was a state of things which
should afford impunity to crime.

But in the next month the Assembly dealt a heavier blow on the king's authority than could
be inflicted by the worst excesses of an informal mob--they passed a resolution prohibiting
any of its members from accepting any office in the administration: it was an imitation of
the self-denying ordinance into which Cromwell had tricked the English Parliament; and, though
bearing an appearance of disinterestedness in closing the access to official emoluments and
honors against themselves, was in reality an injury to the king, as depriving him of his right
to select his ministers from the entire body of the nation; and to the nation itself, as preventing
it from obtaining the services of those who might be presumed to be its ablest citizens, as
having been already selected as its representatives.

But a far more irreparable injury than any that could be inflicted on the court by either populace
or Assembly came from its friends. We have seen that the Count d'Artois, with some nobles who
had especial reason to fear the enmity of the Parisians, had fled from the country in July;
and now their example was followed by a vast number of the higher classes, several of them
having hitherto been prominent as the leaders of the Moderate or Constitutional section of
the Assembly--men who had no grounds for complaining that, except in one or two instances,
at moments of extraordinary excitement, their influence had been overborne, but who now yielded
to an infectious panic. Before the end of the year more than three hundred deputies had resigned
their seats and quit the country; salving over to themselves the dereliction of the duties
which a few months before they had voluntarily sought, and their performance of which was now
a more imperative duty than ever, by denunciations of the crimes which had been committed,
and which they had found themselves unable to prevent. They did not see that their pusillanimous
flight must lead to a continuance of such atrocities, leaving, as it did, the undisputed sway
in the Assembly to those very men who had been the authors of the outrages of which they complained.
They were, in fact, insuring the ruin of all that they most wished to preserve; for, in the
progress of the debates in the Assembly during the winter, many questions of the most vital
importance were decided by very small majorities, which their presence would have turned into
minorities. The greater the danger was, the more irresistible they ought to have felt the obligation
to stand to the last by the cause of which they were the legitimate champions; and the final
triumph of the Jacobin party owed hardly more to the energy of its leaders than to the cowardly
and inglorious flight of the princes and nobles who left the field open without resistance
to their wickedness and audacity.

It was a melancholy winter that the queen now passed. So far as she was able, she diverted
her mind from political anxieties by devoting much of her time to the education of her children.
A little plot of ground was railed off in the garden of the Tuileries for the dauphin's[6]
amusement; and one of her favorite relaxations was to watch him working at the flower-beds
himself with his little hoe and rake; though, as if to mark that they were in fact prisoners,
both she and he were followed wherever they went by grenadiers of the city-guard, and were
not allowed to dispense with their attendance for a single moment. Marie Antoinette had reason
to complain that she was watched as a criminal[7]. Sad as she was at heart, she was not allowed
the comfort of privacy and retirement. She was forced to hold receptions for the nobles and
chief citizens, and as the court was now formally established at the Tuileries, she dined every
week in public with the king; but she steadily resisted the entreaties of some of the ministers
and courtiers to visit the theatres, thinking, with great justice, that an attendance at public
spectacles of that character would have had an appearance of gayety, as unbecoming at such
a period of anxiety, as it was inconsistent with her feelings; and before the end of the winter
she sustained a fresh affliction in the loss of her brother the emperor[8]; whose death bore
with it the additional aggravation of depriving her of a counselor whose advice she valued,
and of an ally on whose active aid she believed that she could rely far more than she could
on that of their brother Leopold, who now succeeded to the imperial throne.

Not that Leopold can be charged with indifference to his sister's welfare. In the very week
of his accession to the throne he wrote to her with great affection, assuring her of his devotion
to her interests, and expressing his desire to correspond with her in the most unreserved confidence.
But the same letter shows that  as yet he knew but very little of her;[9] and that he regarded
the difficulties in which some of Joseph's recent measures had involved the Imperial Government
as sufficiently serious to engross his attention. A few extracts from her reply are worth preserving,
as proving how steadily in her conduct and language to every one she adhered to her rule of
concealing her husband's defects, and putting him forward as the first person on whose wishes
and directions her own conduct most depend. It also shows what advances she was herself making
in the perception of the true character of the crisis, so far as the objects of the few honest
members who still remained in the Assembly were concerned, and the extent to which she was
trying to reconcile herself to some curtailment of her husband's former authority.

Thanking him for the assurance of his friendship, she says: "Believe me, my dear brother, we
shall always be worthy of it. I say we, because I do not separate the king from myself. He
was touched by your letter, as I was myself, and bids me assure you of this. His heart is loyalty
and honesty itself; and if ever again we become, I do not say what we have been, but at least
what we ought to be, you may then depend on the entire fidelity of a good ally.

"I do not say any thing to you of our actual position: it is too heart- rending. It ought to
afflict every sovereign in the universe, and still more an affectionate relation like you.
It is only time and patience that can bring back men's minds to a healthy state. It is a war
of opinions, and one which is still far from being terminated. It is only the justice of our
cause and the feeling of a good conscience that can support us ... My most sincere wish is
that you may never meet with ingratitude. My own melancholy experience proves to me that, of
all evils, that is the most terrible."

Yet no indignation at the thanklessness of the Parisians could chill her constant benevolence
toward them; and amidst all the anxieties which filled her mind for herself, her husband, and
her child, she founded an asylum for the education of a number of orphan daughters of old soldiers,
and found time to give her careful attention to a code of regulations for its management.[10]

Meanwhile circumstances were gradually paving the way for her accepting the help of him who,
during the earliest discussions of the Assembly, had been, not so much through his own malice
as through Necker's folly, her worst enemy. We have seen how, immediately after the attack
on Versailles, Mirabeau had once more endeavored to find an opening through which to place
himself at her service. He alone, perhaps, of all men in the kingdom, perceived the reality
and greatness of the danger which threatened even the lives of the sovereigns;[11] and, as
amidst all the errors into which his regard for his own interests, his vindictiveness, or his
caprice impelled him, he always preserved the perceptions and instincts of a genuine statesman,
many of the transactions of the winter increased his conviction of the peril in which every
interest in the whole kingdom was placed, if the headlong folly of the Assembly could not be
restrained, and if even, proverbially difficult as such a course is, some of its acts could
not be rescinded; while one transaction, which, more than any other that had yet taken place,
showed the greatness of the queen's heart, much sharpened his eagerness to prove himself a
worthy servant of so noble-minded a mistress.

Some of the magistrates who still desired to discharge their duty had instituted an investigation
into the conspiracy which had originated the attack on Versailles, and all its multiplied horrors.
They had examined a great body of witnesses, whose evidence left no doubt of the active part
taken in it by the Duc d'Orléans and his partisans, and by Mirabeau, whether he were to be
included among that prince's adherents or not; but they conceived it specially important to
procure the testimony of the queen herself. However, it was in vain that they applied to her
for the slightest information. Appeals to her indignation, to her pride, and to her danger,
were equally disregarded by her. No denunciation of those who, whatever had been their crimes,
were still the subjects of her husband, could, in her eyes, be becoming to her as queen; and
when those who hoped to make a tool of her to crush their political rivals urged that no evidence
would be accepted as equally conclusive with hers, since no one had seen so much of what had
taken place, or had in so great a degree preserved that coolness which was indispensable to
a clear account of it, and to the identification of the guilty, her reply was a dignified and
magnanimous pardon of the outrages beneath which she had so nearly perished. "I have seen every
thing; I have known every thing; I have forgotten every thing;" and Mirabeau, not unthankful
for the protection which her magnanimity thus throw around him, was eager to make atonement
for his past insults and injuries.

And many of the recent events had convinced him that there was no time to lose. The vote of
November, debarring him, in common with all other members of the Assembly, from office, was
a severe blow to the most important of his projects, so far as his own interests were concerned.
Within a month it had been followed by another, proposed by the Abbé Siéyes, a busy priest
who boasted that he had made himself master of the whole science of politics, but who was in
fact a mere slave of abstract theories, the safety or even the practicability of which he was
utterly unable to estimate. On his motion, the Assembly, in a single evening, abolished all
the ancient territorial divisions of the kingdom, and the very names of the provinces; dividing
the country anew into eighty-three departments, and coupling with this new arrangement a number
of details which were evidently calculated to wrest the whole executive authority of the kingdom
from the crown and to vest it in the populace. At another sitting, the whole property of the
Church was confiscated. On another night, the Parliaments were abolished; and on a fourth,
the party which had carried these measures made a still more direct and audacious attack on
the royal prerogative, by passing a resolution which deprived the crown of all power of revising
the sentences of the judicial tribunals, and of pardoning or mitigating the punishment of those
who might have been condemned. And, if to bring home to the tender-hearted monarch the full
effect of this last inroad upon his legitimate power, they at the same time created a new crime
to which they gave the name of treason against the nation,[12] without either defining it,
or specifying the kind of evidence which should he required to prove it; and they proceeded
at once to put it in force to procure the condemnation of a nobleman of decayed fortune, but
of the highest character, the Marquis de Favras, in a manner which showed that their real object
was to strike terror into the whole Royalist party. The charges on which he was brought to
trial were not merely unfounded, but ridiculous. He was charged with designing to raise an
army of thirty thousand men, with the object of carrying off the king from Paris, of dissolving
the Assembly by force, and putting La Fayette and Bailly to death. The evidence with which
it was pretended to support these charges broke down on every point, and its failure of itself
established the prisoner's innocence, even without the aid of his own defense, which was lucid
and eloquent. But the marquis was known to be a Royalist in feeling, and, though very poor,
to stand high in the confidence of the princes. The demagogues collected mobs round the courthouse
to intimidate the judges, and the judges proved as base as the accusers themselves. They professed,
indeed, to fear not so much for their own lives as for the public tranquillity, but they pronounced
him guilty. One of them had even the effrontery to acknowledge his innocence to Favras himself,
and to affirm that his life was a necessary sacrifice to the public peace.

No event since the attack on Versailles had caused Marie Antoinette equal anguish. It showed
that attachment to the king and herself was in itself regarded as an inexpiable crime, and
her distress was greatly augmented when, on the Sunday following the execution of the marquis,
some of his friends brought to the table where, as usual, she was dining in public with the
king, the widowed marchioness and her orphaned son in deep mourning, and presented them to
their majesties. Their introducers evidently expected that the king, or at least the queen,
by the distinguished reception which she would accord to them, would mark their sense of the
merits of their late husband and father, and of the indignity of the sentence under which he
had suffered.

Marie Antoinette was sadly embarrassed and distressed: she was taken wholly by surprise; and
it happened by a cruel perverseness of fortune that Santerre, the brewer, whose ruffianly and
ferocious enmity to the whole royal family, and especially to herself, had been conspicuous
throughout the worst outrages of the past summer and autumn, was on the same day on duty at
the palace as commander of one of the battalions of the Parisian Guard, and was standing behind
her chair when the marchioness and her son were introduced. Her embarrassment and all her feelings
on the occasion were described by herself in the course of the afternoon to Madame Campan.

After the dinner was over, she went up to her attendant's room, saying that it was a relief
to find herself where she could weep at her ease; for weep she must at the folly of the ultra-Royalists.
"We can not but be destroyed," she continued, "when we are attacked by people who unite every
kind of talent to every kind of wickedness; and when we are defended by folks who are indeed
very estimable, but who have no just notion of our position. They have now compromised me with
both parties, in their presenting to me the widow and son of Favras. If I had been free to
do as I would, I should have taken the child of a man who had just been sacrificed for us,
and have placed him at table between the king and myself; but surrounded as I was by the very
murderers who had caused his father's death, I could not venture even to bestow a glance upon
him. Yet the Royalists will blame me for not having seemed to be interested in the poor child;
while the Revolutionists will be furious, thinking that those who presented him to me knew
that it would please me." And all that she could venture to do she did. She knew that the marchioness
was very poor, and she sent her by a trusty agent a few hundred louis, and with it a kind message,
assuring the unhappy widow that she would always watch over her and her son's interests.

What was probably as painful to Marie Antoinette as these occurrences themselves was the apathy
with which the king regarded them. The English traveler to whose journal we have more than
once referred, and who, in the first week of the year, saw the royal pair waiting in the gardens
of the Tuileries, remarked that though the queen did not appear in good health, but showed
melancholy and anxiety in her face, the king, on the other hand, "was as plump as ease could
render him.[1]" And in the course of February, in spite of all her remonstrances, Necker succeeded
in persuading him to go down to the Assembly, and to address the members in a long speech,
in which, though some of his expressions were clearly intended as a reproof of the Assembly
itself for the precipitation and violence of some of its measures, he nevertheless declared
his cordial assent to the new Constitution, so far as they had yet settled it, and promised
to co-operate in a spirit of affection and confidence in the labors which still remained to
be achieved.

The greater part of the speech is believed to have been his own composition; and it is characteristic
of the fidelity with which, on every occasion, Marie Antoinette adhered to her rule of strengthening
her husband's position by her own cordial and conspicuous support, that, strongly as she had
objected to the step before it was taken, now that it was decided on, she professed a decided
approval of it; and when a deputation of the Assembly, which had been appointed to escort the
king with honor back to the palace, solicited an audience of herself to pay their respects,
she assured the deputies that "she partook of all the sentiments of the king; that she united
with all her heart and mind in the measure which his love for his people had just dictated
to him." And then, bringing the dauphin forward, she added: "Behold my son. I shall unceasingly
speak to him of the virtues of his most excellent father. I shall teach him from the earliest
age to cherish public liberty, and I hope that he will be its firmest bulwark."

For a moment the step seemed to have succeeded, though the proofs of its success were still
more strongly proofs of the utter want of sense that marked all the proceedings of the Assembly.
As Louis had expressed his assent to the Constitution so far as it was settled, it was proposed,
as a fitting compliment to him, that the Assembly and the whole body of the citizens of Paris
should take an oath of fidelity to the Constitution without any such reservation. But in the
course of the next few weeks the Assembly showed how little his reproof of its former precipitation
and violence had been heeded, since, among the first measures with which it proceeded to the
completion of the Constitution, one deprived him of the right of deciding on peace and war,
a power which all wise statesmen regard as inseparable from the executive government; another
extinguished the right of primogeniture; and a third confiscated all the property of the monastic
establishments.

However, those who took the lead in the management of affairs (for Necker and the ministers
had long ceased to exert the slightest authority) were blinded by their own fury to the absurdity
and inconsistency of their conduct. Their exultation was unbounded, and, adhering to the line
of conduct which she had marked out for herself, Marie Antoinette now yielded to their entreaties
that she would show herself to the citizens at the theatre. Even in the days of her earliest
popularity she had never met a more enthusiastic reception. The greater part of the house rose
at her entrance, clapping their hands and cheering, and the disloyalty of a few malcontents
only made her triumph more conspicuous, so roughly were they treated by the rest of the audience.
Marie Antoinette was herself touched at the cordiality with which she was greeted, and saw
in it another proof that "the people and citizens were good at heart if left to themselves;
but," she added to the Princess de Lamballe, to whom she described the scene, "all this enthusiasm
is but a gleam of light, a cry of conscience which weakness will soon stifle.[2]"

It is probably doing no injustice to Mirabeau to believe that the crimes which had made the
greatest impression on the queen were not the events which affected him the most strongly.
But he was not only a statesman in intellect, but an aristocrat in every feeling of his heart.
No man was fonder of referring to his illustrious ancestors; or of claiming kindred with men
of old renown, such as the Admiral de Coligny, of whom he more than once boasted in the Assembly
as his cousin; and each blow dealt at the consideration of the Nobles was an additional incentive
to him to seek to arrest the progress of a revolution which had already gone far beyond his
wishes or his expectations. And as he was always energetic in the pursuit of his plans, he
had, by some means or other, in spite of the discouragement derived from the language and conduct
of the Count de Provence, contrived to get information of his willingness to enlist in the
Royalist party conveyed to the queen. The Count de la Marck, who was still his chief confidant,
was at Brussels at the beginning of the spring, when he received a letter from Mercy, begging
him to return without delay to Paris. He lost no time in obeying the summons, when he learned,
to his great delight, though his pleasure was alloyed by some misgiving, that the king and
queen had resolved to avail themselves of Mirabeau's services, and that he himself was selected
as the intermediate agent in the negotiation. La Marck's misgiving,[3] as he frankly told the
embassador at the outset, was caused by the fear that Mirabeau had done more harm than he could
repair; but he gladly undertook the commission, though its difficulty was increased by a stipulation
which showed at once the weakness of the king, and the extraordinary difficulties which it
placed in the way of his friends. The count was especially warned to keep all that was passing
a secret from Necker. He was startled, as he well might be, at such an injunction. But he did
not think it became his position to start a difficulty; and, as he was fully impressed with
the importance of not losing time, the negotiation proceeded rapidly. He introduced Mirabeau
to Mercy, and he himself was admitted to an interview with the queen, when he learned that
her greatest objections to accepting Mirabeau's services were of a personal nature, founded
partly on the general badness of his character, partly on the share he had borne in the events
of the 5th and 6th of October. By the count's own account, he went rather beyond the truth
in his endeavors to exculpate his friend on this point; and he probably deceived himself when
he believed that he had convinced the queen of his innocence. But both she and Louis, who was
present at a part of the interview, had evidently made up their minds to forget the past, if
they could trust his promises for the future. And the interview ended in the further conduct
of the necessary arrangements being left by Louis to the queen.

In a subsequent conversation with the count, she explained her own views of the existing situation
of affairs, describing them, indeed, according to her custom, as the ideas of the king, in
a manner which shows how much she was willing that the king should abate of his old prerogatives,
provided only that the concessions were made voluntarily by himself, and not imposed by violent
and illegal resolutions of the Assembly. Mirabeau had drawn up an elaborate memorial for the
consideration of the king, in which he pointed out in general terms his sense of the state
of "utter anarchy" into which France had fallen, his shame and indignation at feeling "that
he himself had contributed to bring affairs into such a bad state." and his "profound conviction
of the necessity, in the interests of the whole nation, of re-establishing the legitimate authority
of the king.[4]" And Marie Antoinette, commenting on this expression, assured La Marck that
"the king had no desire to recover the full extent of the authority which he had formerly possessed;
and that he was far from thinking it necessary for his own personal happiness any more than
for the welfare of his people.[5]" And it seemed to the count that she placed unlimited confidence
in Mirabeau's ability to re-establish her husband's power on a sufficient and satisfactory
basis; so full was her conversation, during the latter part of the interview, of the good which
she expected to be again able to do, and of the warm affection with which she regarded the people.

The benefits of this new alliance were not to be all on one side. Mirabeau was overwhelmed
with debt; and though his father had died in the preceding summer, he had not yet entered into
his inheritance, but was in a state little short of absolute destitution. From this condition
he was to be relieved, and the arrangements for the discharge of his debts, and the securing
to him the enjoyment of a sufficient though by no means excessive income, were intrusted to
Marie Antoinette by the king, and by her to her almoner, M. de Fontanges, who, when Loménie
de Brienne was promoted to the archbishopric of Sens, had succeeded him at Toulouse. The archbishop,
who was sincerely devoted to his royal mistress, carried out the necessary arrangements with
great skill, but they could not be managed with such secrecy as entirely to escape notice.
Among the clubs which had been set on foot at the beginning of the previous year the most violent
had been that known as the Breton Club, from being founded by some of the deputies from the
great province of Brittany; but, when the court removed to Paris, and the Assembly was established
in a large building close to the garden of the Tuileries, the Bretons obtained the use of an
apartment in an old convent of Dominican or Jacobin friars (as they were called), the same
which two centuries before had been the council-room of the League, and they changed their
own designation also, and called themselves the Jacobins; and, canceling the rule which limited
the right of membership to deputies, they now admitted every one who, by application for election,
avowed his adherence to their principles. Their leaders at this time were Barnave; a young
noble named Alexander Lameth, whose mother, having been left in necessitous circumstances,
owed to the bounty of the king and queen the means of educating her children, a benefit which
they repaid with the most unremitting hostility to the whole royal family; and a lawyer named
Duport. Mirabeau was in the habit of ridiculing them as the triumvirate; but they were crafty
and unscrupulous men, skillful in procuring information; and, having obtained intelligence
of his negotiations with the court, they retaliated on him by hiring pamphleteers and journalists
to attack him, and narratives of the treason of the Count de Mirabeau were hawked about the
streets.

To apply such language to the adherence of a French noble to the crown was the most open avowal
of disloyalty on which the revolutionary party had yet ventured; and in the next four weeks
it received a practical development in a series of measures, some of which were so ridiculous
as only to deserve notice from the additional evidence which they furnished of the extreme
folly of those who now had the lead in the Assembly, and of the strange excitement in which
the whole nation, or at least the whole population of Paris, must have been wrought up before
they could mistake their acts for those of sagacity or patriotism; but others of which, though
not less unwise, were of greater importance as being irrevocable steps in the downward course
of destruction along which the whole country was being dragged.

The leaders of the revolutionary party had already selected two days in the past year as especially
memorable for the triumphs won over the crown: one was the 20th of June, on which, in the Tennis
Court at Versailles, the members of the Assembly had bound themselves to effect the regeneration
of the kingdom; the other the 14th of July, on which, as they boasted, they had forever established
freedom by the destruction of the Bastile; and they determined this year to celebrate both
these anniversaries in a becoming manner. Accordingly, on the 20th of June, a crack-brained
member of the Jacobin Club, a Prussian of noble birth, named Clootz, who, to show his affinity
with the philosophers of old, had assumed the name of Anacharsis, hired a band of vagrants
and idlers, and, dressing them up in a variety of costumes to represent Arabs, red Indians,
Turks, Chinese, Laplanders, and other tribes, savage and civilized, led them into the Assembly
as a deputation from all the nations of the earth to announce the resurrection of the whole
world from slavery; and demanded permission for them to attend the festival of the ensuing
month, that each, on behalf of his country, might give in his adhesion to the principles of
liberty as expounded by the Assembly. The president of the day replied with an oration thanking
M. Clootz for the honor done to France by such an embassy; and Alexander Lameth followed up
the president's harangue by fresh praises of the deputation as holy pilgrims who had thrown
off the shackles of superstition. Nor was he content with a barren panegyric. He had devised
an appropriate sacrifice with which to commemorate such exalted virtue. In the finest square
of the city, the Place des Victoires, the Duke de la Feuillade had erected a statue of Louis
XIV. to celebrate his royal master's triumphs, the pedestal of which was decorated with allegorical
representations of the nations which had been conquered by the French marshals. It was generally
regarded as the finest work of art in the city, and as such it had long been an object of admiration
and pride to the citizens. But M. Lameth, in his new-born enthusiasm, regarded it with other
eyes, and closed his speech by proposing that, as monuments of despotism and flattery could
not fail to be shocking to so enlightened a body, the Assembly should order its instant demolition.
His proposal was received with enthusiastic cheers, and the noble monument was instantly overthrown
in a fit of blind fury more resembling the orgies of drunken Bacchanals, or the thirst for
desolation which had animated the Goths and Huns, than the conduct of the chosen legislators
of a polite and accomplished people.

But even this was not all. The insult to the memory of a king who, little as he deserved it,
had a century before been the object of the unanimous admiration of his subjects, was but a
prelude to other resolutions of far greater moment, as giving an indelible character to the
future of the nation. A deputy, M. Lambel, whose very name was previously unknown to the majority
of his colleagues, rose and made a speech of three lines, as if the proposal which it contained
only required to be mentioned to command instant and universal assent "This day," said he,
"is the tomb of vanity. I demand the suppression of the titles of duke, count, marquis, viscount,
baron, and knight." La Fayette and Alexander Lameth's brother, Charles, supported the demand
with almost equal brevity; a representative of one of the most ancient families in the kingdom,
the Viscount Matthieu de Montmorency moved a prohibition of the use of armorial bearings; another
noble, M. de St. Targeau, proposed that the use of names derived from the estates of the owners
should be abolished. Every proposal was carried by acclamation. Louder and louder cheers followed
each suggestion of a new abolition; a member who ventured to propose an amendment to one proposal
was hooted down; and in little more than an hour the whole series of resolutions, which struck
at once at the recollections and glories of the past and at the dignity of the future, was
made the law of the land.

Every one of these attacks on the nobles was a fresh provocation to Mirabeau, and increased
his eagerness to complete his reconciliation with the crown. He pronounced the abolition of
titles a torch to kindle civil war, and pressed more earnestly than ever for an interview with
the queen, in which he might both learn her views and explain his own. Marie Antoinette had
foreseen that she should be forced to admit him to her presence, but there was nothing to which
she felt a stronger repugnance. His profligate character excited a feeling of perfect disgust
in her mind; but for the public good she overcame it, and, having in the course of June removed
to St. Cloud for change of air, on the 3d of July she, accompanied by the king, received him
in the garden of that palace. The account which she sent her brother of the interview shows
with what a mixture of feelings she had been agitated. She speaks of herself as "shivering
with horror" as the moment drew near, and can not bring herself to describe him except as a
"monster," though, she admits that his language speedily removed her agitation, which, when
he was first presented to her, had nearly made her ill. "He seemed to be actuated by entire
good faith, and to be altogether devoted to the king; and Louis was highly pleased with him,
so that they now thought every thing was safe.[6]"

She, on her part, had made an equally favorable impression on him. She had adroitly flattered
his high opinion of himself by saying that "if she had been speaking to persons of a different
class and character she should have felt the necessity of being guarded in her language, but
that in dealing with a Mirabeau there could be no need of such caution;" and he told his confidant,
La Marck, that till he knew "the soul and thoughts of the daughter of Maria Teresa, and learned
how fully he could reckon on that august ally, he had seen nothing of the court but its weakness;
but now confidence had raised his courage, and gratitude had made the prosecution of his principles
a duty;[7]" and in some subsequent letters he speaks of every thing as depending on the queen,
and describes in brief but forcible language his appreciation of the dangers which surrounded
her, and of the magnanimous courage with which he sees that she is prepared to confront them.
"The king," he says, "has but one man about him, and that is his wife. There is no safety for
her but in the reestablishment of the royal authority. I love to believe that she would not
desire to preserve life without the crown. What I am quite certain of is, that she will not
preserve her life unless she preserves her crown."

In his interview with her, as she reported it to the emperor, he had recommended, as the first
step to be adopted by the king and herself, a departure from Paris; and, in reference to that
plan, which he at all times regarded as the foundation of every other, he tells La Marck: "The
moment will soon come when it will be necessary to try what can be done by a woman and a child
on horseback. For her it is but the adoption of an hereditary mode of action.[8] But she must
be prepared for it, and must not suppose that one can extricate one's self from an extraordinary
crisis by mere chance or by the combinations of an ordinary man."

The hopes with which the acquisition of such an ally inspired the queen at this time nerved
her to bear her part in the festival with which the Assembly had decided on celebrating the
demolition of the Bastile. The arrangements for it were of a gigantic character. Round the
sides of the Champ de Mars a vast embankment was raised, so as to give the plain the appearance
of an amphitheatre, and to afford accommodation to three hundred thousand spectators. At the
entrance a magnificent arch of triumph was erected. The centre was occupied by a grand altar;
and on one side a gorgeous pavilion was appropriated to the king, his family, and retinue,
the members of the Assembly, and the municipal magistrates. They were all to be performers
in the grand ceremony which was to be the distinguishing feature of the day. The Constitution
was scarcely more complete than it had been when Louis signified his acceptance of it five
months before; but now, not only were he, the deputies, and municipal authorities of Paris
to swear to its maintenance, but the same oath was to be taken by the National Guard, and by
a deputation from every regiment in the army; and it was to bind the soldiers throughout the
kingdom to the new order of things that the ceremony was originally designed.[9]

As a spectacle few have been more successful, and perhaps none has ever been so imposing. Before
midnight on the 13th of July, the whole of the vast amphitheatre was filled with a dense crowd,
in its gayest holiday attire--a marvelous and magnificent sight from its mere numbers; and
early the next morning the heads of the procession began to defile under the arch at the entrance
of the plain--La Fayette, at the head of the National Guard, leading the way. It was a curious
proof of the king's weakness, and of the tenacity with which he clung to his policy of conciliation,
that, in spite of his knowledge of the general's bitter animosity to his authority and to himself,
and of his recent vote for the suppression of all titles of honor, Louis had offered him the
sword of the Constable of France, a dignity which had been disused for many years; and it was
an equally striking evidence of La Fayette's inveterate disloyalty that, gratifying as the
succession to Duguesclin and Montmorency would have been to his vanity, he nevertheless refused
the honor, and contented himself with the dignity which the enrollment of the detachments from
the different departments under his banner conferred on him, by giving him the appearance of
being the commander-in-chief of the National Guard throughout the kingdom. The National Guard
was followed by regiment after regiment, and deputation after deputation, of the regular army;
and, to show the subordination to the law which they were expected to acknowledge for the future,
their swords were all sheathed, while the deputies, the municipal magistrates, and other peaceful
citizens who bore a part in the procession had their swords drawn. Sailors from the fleet,
magistrates and deputations from every department, and from every city or town of importance
in the kingdom, followed; and after them came two hundred priests, with Talleyrand, Bishop
of Autun, in his episcopal vestments at their head, their white robes somewhat uncanonically
decorated with tricolor ribbons, who passed on into the centre of the plain and ranged themselves
on the steps of the altar. So vast was the procession that it was half-past three in the afternoon
before the detachment of Royal Guards which closed it took up their position.

When at last all were in their places, Louis, accompanied by the queen and other members of
his family, entered the royal pavilion. He was known by sight to the deputations from the most
distant provinces, for he had reviewed them in a body the day before, when several of them
had been separately presented to him, toward whom he had for once laid aside his habitual reserve,
assuring them of his fatherly regard for all his subjects with warmth and manifest sincerity.
The queen, too, as she always did, had made a most favorable impression on those members whom
she had seen by her judicious and cordial affability. Louis wore no robes, but only the ordinary
dress of a French noble. Marie Antoinette was in full evening costume, and her hair was dressed
with a plume of tricolor feathers. Yet even on this day, which was intended to be one of universal
joy and friendliness, evil signs were not wanting to show how powerful were the enemies of
both king and queen; for no seat whatever had been provided for her, while by the aide of that
constructed for the king another on very nearly the same level had been placed for the President
of the Assembly.

But these refinements of discourtesy were lost on the spectators. They cheered the royal pair
joyously the moment that they appeared. Before the shouts had died away, Bishop Talleyrand
began the service of the mass; and, on its termination, administered the oath "of fidelity
to the nation, the law, the king, and the Constitution as decreed by the Assembly and accepted
by the king." La Fayette took the oath first in the name of the army. Talleyrand followed on
behalf of the clergy. Bailly came next, as the representative of the citizens of Paris. It
was a stormy day; and when the moment arrived for the king to set the seal to the universal
acceptance of the constitution by swearing to exert all his own power for its maintenance,
the rain came down so heavily as to render it impossible for him to leave the shelter of his
own pavilion. As it happened, the momentary disappointment gave a greater effect to his act.
With more than usual presence of mind, he advanced to the front of the pavilion, so as to be
seen by the whole of the assembled multitude, and took the oath with a loud voice and perfect
dignity of manner. As he resumed his seat, the rain cleared away, the sun burst through the
clouds; and the queen, as if by a sudden inspiration, brought forward the little dauphin, and,
lifting him up in her arms, showed him to the people. Those whom the king's voice could not
reach saw the graceful action; and from every side of the plain one universal acclamation burst
forth, which seemed to bear out Marie Antoinette's favorite assertion that the people were
good at heart, and that it was not without great perseverance in artifice and malignity that
they could be excited to disloyalty and treason.

But men less blinded by the feverish excitement of revolutionary enthusiasm would have seen
but little in the state of France at this time to regard as matter for exultation. Many of
the recent measures of the Assembly, and especially the extinction of the old provinces, had
created great discontent in the rural districts. Formidable riots had broken out in many quarters,
especially in the great southern cities, in some of which the mob had rivaled the worst excesses
of its Parisian brethren; massacring the magistrates, tearing their bodies into pieces, and
terrifying the peaceable inhabitants by processions, in which the mangled remains of their
victims formed the most conspicuous feature. At Brest and at Toulon the sailors showed that
they fully shared the general dissatisfaction; while in the army a formidable mutiny broke
out among the troops which were under the command of the Marquis de Bouillé, in Lorraine. That,
indeed, had a different object, since it had been excited by Jacobin emissaries, who were aware
that the marquis, the soldier who, of the whole French army at that time, enjoyed the highest
reputation, was firmly attached to the king; though he was not one of the nobles who had opposed
all reform, nor had he hesitated to follow his royal master's example and to declare his acceptance
of the new Constitution. Fortunately he had subalterns worthy of him, and faithful to their
oaths; and as he was a man of great promptitude and decision, he, with their aid, quelled the
mutiny, though not without a sanguinary conflict, in which he himself lost above four hundred
men, while the loss which he inflicted on the mutineers was far heavier. But he had set a noble
example, and had given an undeniable proof of the possibility of quelling the most formidable
tumults; and it may be said that his quarters were the only spot in all France which was not
wholly given up to anarchy and disorder.

For even the Assembly itself was a prey to tumult and violence. From the time of its assuming
that title admission had been given to every one who could force his way into the chamber,
whether he was a member or not; nor was any order preserved among those who thus obtained admission;
but they were allowed to express their opinion of every speaker and of every speech by friendly
or unfriendly clamor: a practice which, as may well be supposed, materially influenced many
votes. And presently attendance for that purpose became a trade; some of the most violent deputies
hiring a regularly appointed troop to take their station in the galleries, and paying them
daily wages to applaud or hiss in accordance with the signs which they themselves made from
the body of the hall.[1] And if the populace was thus the master of the Assembly while at Versailles,
this was far more the case after its removal to Paris, where the number of the idle portion
of the population furnished the Jacobins with far greater means of intimidating their adversaries.

It was remarkable that La Marck himself, as has been already intimated, did not fully share
the hopes which the king and queen founded on the adhesion of Mirabeau. It was not only that
on one point he had sounder views than Mirabeau himself--doubting, as he did, whether the mischief
which his vehement friend had formerly done could now be undone by the same person, merely
because he had changed his mind--but he also felt doubts of Mirabeau's steadiness in his new
path, and feared lest eagerness for popularity, or an innate levity of disposition, might still
lead him astray. As he described him in a letter to Mercy, "he was sometimes very great and
sometimes very little; he could be very useful, and he could be very mischievous: in a word,
he was often above, and sometimes greatly below, any other man." At another time he speaks
of him as "by turns imprudent through excess of confidence, and lukewarm from distrust;" and
this estimate of the great demagogue, which was not very incorrect, shows, too, how high an
opinion La Marck had formed of the queen's ability and force of character, for he looks to
her "to put a curb on his inconstancy,[2]" trusting for that result not so much to her power
of fascination as to her clearness of view and resolution.

And she herself was never so misled by her high estimate of Mirabeau's abilities and influence
as to think his judgment unerring. On the contrary, her comment to Mercy on one of the earliest
letters which he addressed to the king was that it was "full of madness from one end to the
other," and she asked "how he, or any one else, could expect that at such a moment the king
and she could be induced to provoke a civil war?" alluding, apparently, to his urgent advice
that the royal family should leave Paris, a step of the necessity for which she was not yet
convinced. Her hope evidently was that he would bring forward some motions in the Assembly
which might at least arrest the progress of mischief, and perhaps even pave the way for the
repair of some of the evil already done.

On one point she partly agreed with him, but not wholly. He insisted on the necessity of dismissing
the ministers; but she, though thinking them, both as a body and individually, unequal to the
crisis, saw great difficulty in replacing them, since the vote of the preceding winter forbade
the king to select their successors from the members of the Assembly;[3] and she feared also
lest, if he should dismiss them, the Assembly would carry out a plan which, as it seemed to
her, it already showed great inclination to adopt, of managing every thing by means of committees,
and preventing the appointment of any new administration. Her view of the situation, and of
the king's and her position, varied from time to time, as indeed their circumstances and the
views of the Assembly appeared to alter. In August she is in great distress, caused by a decision
of the emperor to remove Mercy to the Hague. "I am," she writes to the embassador, "in despair
at your departure, especially at a moment when affairs are becoming every day more embarrassing
and more painful, and when I have therefore the greater need of an attachment as sincere and
enlightened as yours. But I feel that all the powers, under different pretexts, will withdraw
their ministers one after another. It is impossible to leave them incessantly exposed to this
disorder and license; but such is my destiny, and I am forced to endure the horror of it to
the very end.[4]" But a fortnight later she tells Madame de Polignac that "for some days things
have been wearing a better complexion. She can not feel very sanguine, the mischievous folks
having such an interest in perverting every thing, and in hindering every thing which, is reasonable,
and such means of doing so; but at the moment the number of ill-intentioned people is diminished,
or at least the right-thinking of all classes and of all ranks are more united ... You may
depend upon it," she adds, "that misfortunes have not diminished my resolution or my courage:
I shall not lose any of that; they will only give me more prudence.[5]" Indeed, her own strength
of mind, fortitude, and benevolence were the only things in France which were not constantly
changing at this time; and she derived one lesson from the continued vicissitudes to which
she was exposed, which, if partly grievous, was also in part full of comfort and encouragement
to so warm a heart. "It is in moments such as these that one learns to know men, and to see
who are truly attached to one, and who are not. I gain every day fresh experiences in this
point; sometimes cruel, sometimes pleasant; for I am continually finding that some people are
truly and sincerely attached to us, to whom I never gave a thought."

Another of her old vexations was revived in the renewed jealousy of Austrian influence with
which the Jacobin leaders at this time inspired the mob, and which was so great that, when
in the autumn Leopold sent the young Prince de Lichtenstein as his envoy to notify his accession,
Marie Antoinette could only venture to give him a single audience; and, greatly as she enjoyed
the opportunity of gathering from him news of Vienna and of the old friends of the childhood
of whom she still cherished an affectionate recollection, she was yet forced to dismiss him
after a few minutes' conversation, and to beg him to accelerate his departure from Paris, lest
even that short interview should be made a pretext for fresh calumnies. "The kindest thing
that any Austrian of mark could do for her," she told her brother, "was to keep away from Paris
at present.[6]" She would gladly have seen the Assembly interest itself a little in the politics
of the empire, where Leopold's own situation was full of difficulties; but the French had not
yet come to consider themselves as justified in interfering in the internal government of other
countries. As she describes their feelings to the emperor, "They feel their own individual
troubles, but those of their neighbors do not yet affect them; and the names of Liberty and
Despotism are so deeply engraved in their heads, even though they do not clearly define them,
that they are everlastingly passing from the love of the former to the dread of the latter;"
and then she adds a sketch of her own ideas and expectations, and of the objects which she
conceives it her duty to keep in view, in which it is affecting to see that her utter despair
of any future happiness for the king and herself in no degree weakens her desire to promote
the happiness of the very people who have caused her suffering. "Our task is to watch skillfully
for the moment when men's heads have returned to proper ideas sufficiently to make them enjoy
a reasonable and honest freedom, such as the king has himself always desired for the happiness
of his people; but far from that license and anarchy which have precipitated the fairest of
kingdoms into all possible miseries. Our health continues good, but it would be better if we
could only perceive the least gleam of happiness around us; as for ourselves, that is at an
end forever, happen what will. I know that it is the duty of a king to suffer for others; and
it is one which we are discharging thoroughly."

She had indeed at this time sufferings to which it is characteristic of her undaunted courage
that she never makes the slightest allusion in her letters. Of all the Jacobin party, one of
the most blood-thirsty was a wretch named Marat.[7] At the very outset of the Revolution he
had established a newspaper to which he gave the name of The People's Friend, and the staple
topic of which was the desirableness of bloodshed and massacre. He had been exasperated at
the receptions given to the royal family at the festival of July; and for some weeks afterward
his efforts were directed to inflame the populace to a new riot, in which the king and queen
should be dragged into Paris from St. Cloud, as in 1789 they had been dragged in from Versailles,
and which should end in the murder of the queen, the ministers, and several hundreds of other
innocent persons; and his denunciations very nearly bore a part of their intended fruit. The
royal family had hardly returned to St. Cloud, when a man named Rotondo was apprehended in
the inner garden, who confessed that he had made his way into it with the express design of
assassinating Marie Antoinette, a design which was only balked by the fortunate accident of
a heavy shower which prevented her from leaving the house; and a week or two afterward a second
plot was discovered, the contrivers of which designed to poison her. Her attendants were greatly
alarmed; and her physician furnished Madame Campan with an antidote for such poisons as seemed
most likely to be employed. But Marie Antoinette herself cared little for such precautions.
Assassination was not the end which she anticipated. On one occasion, when she found Madame
Campan changing some powdered sugar which, it was suspected, might have been tampered with,
she thanked her, and praised M. Vicq-d'Azyr, the physician by whose instructions Madame Campan
was acting, but told her that she was giving herself needless trouble. "Depend upon it," she
added, "they will not employ a grain of poison against me. The Brinvilliers[8] do not belong
to this age; people now use calumny, which is much more effectual for killing people; and it
is by calumny that they will work my destruction.[9] But even thus, if my death only secures
the throne to my son, I shall willingly die."

One of the measures which Mirabeau strongly urged, and as to which Marie Antoinette hesitated,
balancing the difficulties to which it was not unlikely to give rise against the advantages
which were more obvious, was arranged without her intervention. Necker had but one panacea
for all the ills of a defective constitution or an ill-regulated government--the re-establishment
of the finances of the country; and, as public confidence is indispensable to national credit,
the troubles of the last year had largely increased the embarrassments of the Treasury. He
was also but scantily endowed with personal courage. In the denunciations of Marat he had not
been spared, and by the beginning of September fear had so predominated over every other feeling
in his mind that he resolved to quit a country which, as he was not one of her sons, seemed
to him to have no such claim on his allegiance that he should imperil his life for her sake.
But in carrying out his determination, he exhibited a strange forgetfulness, not only of the
respect due to his royal master as king, but also of all the ordinary rules of propriety; for
he did not resign his office into the hands of the sovereign from whom he had received it,
but he announced his retirement to the Assembly, sending the president of the week a letter
in which he attributed his reasons for the step partly to his health, which he described as
weak, and partly to the "mortal anxieties of his wife, as virtuous as she was dear to his heart."
It was hardly to be wondered at that the members present were moved rather to laughter than
to sympathy by this sentimental effusion. They took no notice of the letter, and passed to
the order of the day; and certainly, if it afforded evidence of his amiable disposition, it
supplied proof at least equally strong of the weakness of his character, and of his consequent
unfitness for any post of responsibility at such a time.

It was more to his credit that he at the same time placed in the treasury a sum of two millions
of francs to cover any incorrectness which might be discovered or suspected in his accounts,
and any loss which might be sustained from the depreciation of the paper money lately issued
under his administration, though not with his approbation. All the rest of his colleagues retired
at the same time, except the foreign secretary, M. Montmorin. They had recently been attacked
with great violence in the Assembly by a combination of the most extreme democrats and the
most extreme Royalists, the latter of whom accused them of having betrayed the royal authority
by unworthy accessions. But, though, in the division which had taken place they had been supported
by a considerable majority, they feared a repetition of the attack, and resigned their offices;
in some degree undoubtedly weakening their royal master by their retirement, since those by
whom he found himself compelled to replace them had still less of his confidence. Two--Duport
de Tertre, Keeper of the Seals, and Duportail, Minister of War--were creatures of La Fayette,
and the first mentioned was notoriously unfriendly to the queen. Two others--Lambert, the successor
of Necker, and Fleurieu, the Minister of Marine--were under the influence of Barnave and the
Jacobins. The only member of the new ministry who was in the least degree acceptable to Louis
was M. de Lessart, the Minister of the Interior; but he, though loyal in purpose, was of too
moderate talents for his appointment to add any real strength to the royal cause.

Marie Antoinette, however, paid but little attention to these ministerial changes; she disregarded
them--and her view was not unsound--as but the displacement of one set of weak men by another
set equally weak; and she saw, too, that the Assembly had established so complete a mastery
over the Government, that even men of far greater ability and force of character would have
been impotent for good. Her whole dependence was on Mirabeau; and his course at this time was
so capricious and erratic that it often caused her more perplexity and alarm than pleasure
or confidence. He regarded himself as having a very difficult part to play. He could not conceal
from himself that he was no longer able to lead the Assembly as he had done at first, except
when he was urging it along a road which it desired to take. In spite of one of his most brilliant
efforts of eloquence, he had recently been defeated in an endeavor to preserve to the king
the right of peace and war; and, to regain his ascendency, he more than once in the course
of the autumn supported measures to which the king and queen had the greatest repugnance, and
made speeches so inflammatory that even his own friend, La Marck, was indignant at his language,
and expostulated with him with great earnestness. He justified himself by explaining his view[10]
that no man in the country could at present bring the people back to reasonable notions; that
they could only at this moment be governed by flattering their prejudices; that the king must
trust to time alone; and that his own sole prospect of being of use to the crown lay in his
preservation of his popularity till the favorable moment should arrive, even if, to preserve
that popularity, it were necessary for him at times still to appear a supporter of revolutionary
principles. It is not impossible that the motives which he thus described did really influence
him; but it was not strange that Marie Antoinette should fail to appreciate such refined subtlety.
She had looked forward to his taking a bold, straightforward course in defense of Royalist
principles; and she could hardly believe in the honesty of a man who for any object whatever
could seem to disregard or to despise them. Her feelings may be shown by some extracts from
one of her letters to the emperor written just after one of Mirabeau's most violent outbursts,
apparently his speech in support of a motion that the fleet should be ordered to hoist the
tricolor flag.

"October 22d, 1790.

"We are again fallen back into chaos and all our old distrust. Mirabeau had sent the king some
notes, a little violent in language, but well argued, on the necessity of preventing the usurpations
of the Assembly ... when, on a question concerning the fleet, he delivered a speech suited
only to a violent demagogue, enough to frighten all honest men. Here, again, all our hopes
from that quarter are overthrown. The king is indignant, and I am in despair. He has written
to one of his friends, in whom I have great confidence, a man of courage and devoted to us,
an explanatory letter, which seems to me neither an explanation nor an excuse. The man is a
volcano which would set an empire on fire; and we are to trust to him to put out the conflagration
which is devouring us. He will have a great deal to do before we can feel confidence in him
again. La Marck defends Mirabeau, and maintains that if at times he breaks away, he is still
in reality faithful to the monarchy ... The king will not believe this. He was greatly irritated
yesterday. La Marck says that he has no doubt that Mirabeau thought that he was acting well
in speaking as he did, to throw dust in the eyes of the Assembly, and so to obtain greater
credit when circumstances still more grave should arise. O my God! if we have committed faults,
we have sadly expiated them.[11]"

And before the end of the year, the royal cause had fresh difficulties thrown in its way by
the perverse and selfish wrongheadedness of the emigrant princes, who were already evincing
an inclination to pursue objects of their own, and to disown all obedience to the king, on
the plea that he was no longer master of his policy or of his actions. They showed such open
disregard of his remonstrances that, in December, as Marie Antoinette told the emperor, Louis
had written both to the Count d'Artois and to the King of Sardinia (in whose dominions the
count was at the time), that, if his brothers persisted in their designs, "he should be compelled
to disavow them peremptorily, and summon all his subjects who were still faithful to him to
return to their obedience. She hoped," she said, "that that would make them pause. It seemed
certain to her that no one but those on the spot, no one but themselves, could judge what moments
and what circumstances were favorable for action, so as to put an end to their own miseries
and to those of France. And it will be then," she concludes, "my dear brother, that I shall
reckon on your friendship, and that I shall address myself to you with the confidence with
which I am inspired by the feelings of your heart, which are well known to me, and by the good-will
which you have shown us on all occasions.[12]"

The last sentence of the letter just quoted points to a new hope which the king and she had
begun to entertain of obtaining aid from foreign princes. As it can hardly have been suggested
to them by any other advisers, we may probably attribute the origination of the idea to the
queen, who was naturally inclined to rate the influence of the empire highly, and to rely on
her brother's zeal to assist her confidently. And Louis caught at it, as the only means of
extricating him from a religious difficulty which was causing him great distress, and which
appeared to him insurmountable by any means which he could command in his own country. As has
been already seen, he had had no hesitation in yielding up his own prerogatives, and in making
any concessions or surrenders which the Assembly required, so long as they touched nothing
but his own authority. He had even (which was a far greater sacrifice in his eyes) sanctioned
the votes which had deprived the Church of its property; but, in the course of the autumn the
Assembly passed other measures also, which appeared to him absolutely inconsistent with religion.
They framed a new ecclesiastical constitution which not only reduced the number of bishops
(which, indeed, in France, as in all other Roman Catholic countries, had been unreasonably
excessive), but which also vested the whole patronage of the Church in the municipal authorities,
and generally subordinated the Church to the civil law. And having completed these arrangements,
which to a conscientious Roman Catholic bore the character of sacrilege, they required the
whole body of the clergy to accept them, and to take an oath to observe them faithfully.

Louis was in a great strait. Many of the chief prelates appealed to him for protection, which
he thought his duty as a Christian man bound him to afford them. But the protection which they
implored could only be given by refusal of the royal assent to the bill. And he could not disguise
from himself that such an exercise of his veto would furnish a pretext to his enemies for more
violent denunciations of himself and the queen than had yet been heard. He had also, though
his personal safety was at all times very slightly regarded by him, begun to feel himself a
prisoner, at the mercy of his enemies.

The historians of the democratic party have denounced with great severity the conduct of Louis
in thus appealing to foreign aid, as a proof that, in spite of his acceptance of the Constitution,
he was meditating a counter- revolution. The whole tenor of his and the queen's correspondence
proves that this charge is groundless; but it is equally certain that it was an impolitic step,
one wholly opposed to every idea of Constitutional principles, of which the very foundation
must always be perfect freedom from foreign influence, and from foreign connection in the internal
government of the country.

Fortunately, his secret was well kept, so that no knowledge of this step reached the leaders
of the popular party; and, however great may have been the queen's secret anxieties and fears,
she kept them bravely to herself, displaying outwardly a serenity and a patience which won
the admiration of all those who, in foreign countries, were watching the course of events in
France with interest.[4] When she wept, she wept by herself. Her one comfort was that her children
were always with her; and though the dauphin could only witness without understanding her grief,
"remarking on one occasion, when in one of his childish books he met the expression 'as happy
as a queen,' that all queens are not happy, for his mamma wept from morning till night." Her
daughter was old enough to enter into her sorrows; and, as she writes to Madame de Polignac,
mingles her own tears with hers. She had also the society of her sister-in-law Elizabeth, whom
she had learned to love with an affection which could not be exceeded even by that which she
bore her own sister, and which was cordially returned. She tells Madame de Polignac that Elizabeth's
calmness is one great relief and support to them all; and Elizabeth can not find adequate words
to express to one of her correspondents her admiration for the queen's "piety and resignation,
which alone enable her to bear up against troubles such as no one before has ever known."

But amidst all her grief she cherishes hope--hope that the people (the "good people," as she
invariably terms them) will return to their senses; and her other habitual feeling of benevolence,
though she can now only exert it in forming projects for conferring further benefits on them
when tranquillity should be restored. The feeling shows itself even in letters which have no
reference to her own position. There had been discontent and signs of insurrection in the Netherlands
which Mercy's recent letters led her to believe were passing away; and her congratulations
to her brother on this peaceful result dwell on the happiness "which it is to be able to pardon
one's subjects without shedding one drop of blood, of which sovereigns are bound to be always
careful.[5]"

Her brother, and many of her friends in France, were at this time pressing her to quit the
country, professing to believe that if her enemies knew that she was out of their reach, they
would be less vehement in their hostility to the king; but she felt that such a course would
be both unworthy of her, as timid and selfish, and in every way injurious rather than beneficial
to her husband. It could not save his authority, which was what the Jacobins made it their
first object to destroy; and it would deprive him of the support of her affection and advice,
which he constantly needed.

