    "Defender of the Faith was anciently used by the Kings of England, as
    appears by several charters granted to the University of Oxford, &c."

As the word anciently, I conceive, applies to a period anterior to 1521, may I express a hope
that some of your learned subscribers at Oxford will favour your readers with the dates of
the charters alluded to; and, if possible, some information as to the circumstances which led
to the adoption of the title "Defender of the Faith" by the kings of England previous to the
reign of Henry VIII.

ROBERT ANSTRUTHER, Lieut.-Col.

Bayswater.

Calendar of Sundays in Greek and Romish Churches.--Where can I find good authority on the calendar
of Sundays in the Greek Church, and in the Roman? As to the latter, the missals and directories
only give the current year: as to the former, there is no work I know of which gives anything.

M.

Dandridge the Painter.--At Osterley Park (Lord Jersey's) is the only example of the pencil
of Dandridge, bearing his signature and the date 1741.

Through neglect and the effect of time this able work has been dried up, so that we may say--

  "The wine of life is drawn, and nothing
  Left but the mere lees:"

but there's savour of merit and signs of goodly craft for the dark age of its birth. In the
group of three children of life-size we have a rare work of the period when few men of genius
wielded the brush or daubed canvas, even through the inspiring patronage of a wealthy banker,
whose progeny they are--and this is executed too before academies and societies offered their
fostering aid, and when Hogarth struggled on probably side by side with Dandridge. Some of
your readers may have traces of him and of his works, and may be able to trace his memory to
the grave. All that Walpole has of him is (p. 439.):

    "Son of a house painter; had great business from his felicity in taking
    a likeness. He sometimes painted small conversations, but died in the
    vigour of his age."

QUESTOR.

Athenæum, Nov. 20. 1850.

Chaucer's Portrait by Occleve.--Is the portrait of Chaucer which Occleve drew in his translation
of Egidius de Roma to be found in all the MSS. of that work? and, if so, has it ever been engraved.
I have not Urry's Chaucer by me, or perhaps he could save you the trouble of answering the
question.

On reference to Watts, I find he does not even mention this work of Occleve, but contents himself
with a piece of supercilious criticism; whereas the notices which Occleve takes of passing
events (of which the character of Chaucer is one) are at least valuable (although his poetry
may not be the best in the world), and his work is also valuable in giving us the phraseology
of the fourteenth century.

P.

John o'Groat's House.--Does any authenticated view of the building called John o'Groat's House
in Caithness exist, and are any traditions respecting it known beyond the certainly ridiculous
account in the fifth volume of Beauties of Scotland, p.83.?

Can any of your readers point out an engraving of the old Konigs or Kaiserstuhl, at Rheuse,
on the Rhine, as well as of its restoration in 1848, after being destroyed by the hordes of
revolutionary France, in 1792? It is not in Merian or Zeiler. I have seen it, but cannot call
to mind the author. Perhaps Alsatia Illustrata?

WILLIAM BELL, Phil. Dr.

Dancing the Bride to Bed--Old Hewson the Cobler.--I have a tune called "A round dance to dance
the bride to bed." Can any of your readers favour me with notices of such a custom prevailing?
The tune dates about 1630 or earlier, and resembles that of "The Hunt is up."

Another, printed about 1730, is called, "My name is Old Hewson the Cobler." Is this a cavelier's
song in ridicule of the Roundhead Colonel Hewson; and are the words to be found?

WM. CHAPPELL.

    [We trust these Queries may be regarded as a sign that Mr. Chappell is
    preparing a new edition of his valuable collection of National English
    Airs.--ED.]

Duke and Earl of Albemarle.--Albemarle has given a title of duke to the celebrated General
Monk, and that of earl to the family of Keppel. Will some of your correspondents tell me where
{443} there is any place called Albemarle, which gives rise to these dignities, or why this
title was assumed by these families?

J.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

JULIN, THE DROWNED CITY.

(Vol. ii., p. 282.)

It does not at all follow, that if a city perished by the encroachment of the sea, it was a
very striking event at the time: it might have happened gradually, not suddenly. Instances
both ways seem to have occurred on the shores of the German Ocean (see Lyell's Principles of
Geology, ch. 16.). A great flood happened in 1154 (Helmold, p. 216. b. ii. c. 1. s. 5.), but
it is mentioned with respect to the oceanic rivers only, and not as to the Baltic, or destruction
of houses or buildings.

But was Julin drowned at all? Helmold does not say that it was (his account is in Book i. c.
2. s. 5.); and he does say that it was not, but destroyed by a certain Danish king. It is most
inconceivable that he should not have known who the Danish king was, if it happened in his
own time. The passage savours of much later interpolation.

Koch, Rivol. vol. i. p. 280., states positively that Julin was Wollin, and was destroyed by
Waldemar I. in 1175, for which he seems to rely upon Helmold, or at least his continuator,
Arnold. Helmold himself died in 1170.

Saxo Grammaticus lived at that time, and was probably well acquainted with the events, since
he was intimate with Archbishop Absolon, who took part in them in a military as well as ecclesiastical
sense. In p. 333. he says:

    "Waldemar the 1st, goes with a fleet through the month of the river
    Zwina, then to the river which adjoins Julin and Camin, and has its
    mouth divided into two. There was a long bridge joining the walls of
    Julin. The king having landed 'ex adverso urbis in ripa Australi,
    pontem disjici jussit.' The king cleared the way for his fleet; got to
    an island Chrisztoa; crossed the river and went to Camin. He went out
    to sea by that mouth."

This is given very much at length.

All this is the geography of the present day, and the names, if you read Wollin for Julin.
The Oder expands into a wide lake, shut off from the sea by a bar of land, through which there
are three channels. The Zwein is the middle one of the three; that which passes by Wollin and
Kimmin is the eastern one.

In p. 347. he says:

    "Rex ... classem ... Zuinsibus ostiis inserit, Julinique vacuas
    defensoribus ædes, incendio adortus, rehabitatæ urbis novitatem,
    iterata penatium strage, consumpsit.... Juilinenses, cum urbis uæ
    recenses ruinas, ferendæ obsidioni, inhabiles cernerent, perinde ac
    viribus orbati, deserta patria, præsidium Caminense petiverunt, aliena
    amplexi moenia, qui propria tueri diffiderent."

In p. 359. he says: The king "per Suinam invectus, Julinum oppidum, incolarum fugâ desertam,
incendio tentat."

Saxo mentions Julin, p. 182-24.: "Nobilissimum illius provinciæ oppidum," under Harold Blatand,
King of Denmark, who reigned in the latter half of the ninth century. He put a body of troops
into it, who became dreadful pirates.

In p. 225. he says that the Danes compelled them to give up their pirates, who were punished.
In p. 381., in the reign of Canute, son of Waldemar, there is an expedition against the Julinenses,
the result of which is expressed "Julinensium rebus absumptis."

In p. 382., the king sets out for Julin, but seems to have attacked only Camin. Waldemar died
in 1182, Canute, 1202 (Koch.)

Arnold (b. iii. c. 8. s. 4.) speaks of the Sclavi as finally subdued and made tributary, about
1185.

