As connected with this part of the subject, a few words must be said on the condition of the
towns and villages; for although I had at first intended to treat this, and the situation of
the different ranks, as separate subjects; yet they seem to come in more naturally at present,
when speaking of the wealth of France and its division. The towns throughout France, as well
as the villages, particularly in the south, have an appearance of decay and dilapidation. The
proprietors have not the means of repair. It is customary (I suppose from the heat of the climate),
to build the houses very large; to repair a French house, therefore, is very expensive: and
it will generally be seen, that in most, houses only one or two rooms are kept in repair, and
furnished, while the rest of the house is crumbling to pieces. This is the case with all the
great houses; in those of the common people we should expect more comfort, as they are small,
and do not need either expensive repair or gay furniture; but comfort is unknown in France.
On entering a small house in one of the villages, we find the people huddled together as they
are said to do in some parts of England and Scotland. Men, women, dogs, cats, pigs, goats,
&c.--no glass in the windows--doors shattered--truckle-beds--a few earthen pots; and with all
this filth, we find, perhaps, half a dozen velvet or brocade covered chairs; a broken mirror,
or a marble slab-table; these are the articles plundered in former days of terror and revolution.
All caffés and hotels in the villages are thus furnished.

The streets in almost every town in France are without pavement. Would any one believe, that
in the great city, as the French call it, there is a total want of this convenience? On this
subject, Mercier, in his Tableaux de Paris, has this remark: [42]"Dès qu'on est sur le pavè
de Paris, ou voit que le peuple n'y fait pas les loix;--aucune commoditè pour les gens de pied--point
de trottoirs--le peuple semble un corps separè des autres ordres de l'etat--les riches et les
grands qui ont equipage ont le droit de l'ecraser ou de le mutiler dans les rues--cent victimes
expirent par annee sous les rues des voiture."

Besides the want of pavement to protect us from the carriages, and to keep our feet dry, we
have to encounter the mass of filth and dirt, which the nastiness of the inhabitants deposits,
and which the police suffers to remain. The state of Edinburgh in its worst days, as described
by our English neighbours, was never worse than what you meet with in France. The danger of
walking the streets at night is very great, and the perfumes of Arabia do not prevail in the
morning.

The churches in all the villages are falling to ruin, and in many instances are converted into
granaries, barracks, and hospitals; manufacturing establishments are also in ruins, scarcely
able to maintain their workmen; their owners have no money for the repair of their buildings.
The following description of the changes that have taken place in the French villages, is better
than any thing I can give; and from what I have seen, it is perfectly correct:

[43]"Avant la revolution, le village se composait de quatre mille habitans. Il fournissait
pour sa part, au service general de l'Eglise et des hopitaux, ainsi qu'aux besoins de l'instruction
cinq eclesiastiques, deux sœurs de la charité, et trois maitres d'ecol. Ces derniers sont remplacé
par un maitre d'equitation, un maitre de dessin et deux maitres de musique. Sur huit fabriques
d'etoffes de laisne et de coton, il ne reste plus qu'une seule. En revanche il s'est etabli
deux caffés, un tabaque, un restaurat, et un billiard qui prosperent d'une maniere surprenante.
On comptait autrefois quarante charretiers de labour; vingt-cinq d'entre eux sont devenus couriers,
piqueurs, et cochès. Ce vuide est remplie par autant de femmes, qui dirigent la charette et
qui pour se delasser de tems en tems menent au marché des voitures de paille ou de charbon.
Le nombre de charpentiers, de maçons, et d'autres artisans est diminué à peu pres de moitie.
Mais le prix de tout les genres de main d'œuvre ayant aussi augmenté de moitie--cela revient
au meme--et la compensation se retablit. Une espece d'individus que le village fournit en grande
abondance, et dans des proportions trop fortes ce sont les domestiques de luxe et de livrée.
Pour peu que cela dure on achevera de depeupler le campagne de gens utiles qui le cultivent
pour peupler les villes d'individus oisifs et corrompus. Beaucoup de femmes et de jeunes filles,
qui n'etaient que des couturiers, et des servantes de femmes, ont aussi trouvè de l'avancement
dans la capitale, et dans les grandes villes. Elles sont devenues femmes de chambre--brodeuses--et
marchandes des modes. On dirait que le luxe a entreprit de pomper la jeunesse; toutes les idèes
et tous les regards sont tournès vers lui à aucun epoque anterieure le contingent du village
en hommes de loi--huissiers--etudiants en droits, mediçins, poetes et artistes, ne s'etait
eleve au dela de trois ou quatre; il s'eleve maintenant à soixante deux, et une chose qu'on
n'aurait jamais su imaginer autrefois c'est qu'il y a dans le nombre autant de peintres, de
poetes, de comediens, de danseuses de theatre et de musiciens ambulans, qu'une ville de quatre
vingt mille hommes aurait pu en fournir il y a trente ou quarante ans."

Another mark of the poverty of France at present occurs to me: In every town, but particularly
in the large cities, we are struck with numbers of idle young men and women who are seen in
the streets. Now that the army no longer carries away the "surplus population of France," (to
use the language of Bonaparte), the number of these idlers is greatly increased. The great
manufacturing concerns have long ceased to employ them. France is too poor to continue the
public works which Napoleon had every where begun. The French have no money for the improvement
of their estates, the repair of their houses, or the encouragement of the numerous trades and
professions which thrive by the costly taste and ever-varying fashion of a luxurious and rich
community. Being on the subject of taste and fashion, I must not forget that I noticed the
dress and amusements of the French as offering a mark of their poverty. The great meanness
of their dress must particularly strike every English traveller; for I believe there is no
country in the world where all ranks of people are so well dressed as in England. It is not
indeed astonishing to see the nobility, the gentry, and those of the liberal professions well
clothed, but to see every tradesman, and every tradesman's apprentice, wearing the same clothes
as the higher orders; to see every servant as well, if not better clothed than his master,
affords a clear proof of the riches of a country. In the higher ranks among the French, a gentleman
has indeed a good suit of clothes, but these are kept for wearing in the evening on the promenade,
or at a party. In the morning, clothes of the coarsest texture, and often much worn, or even
ragged, are put on. If you pay a lady or gentleman a morning visit, you find them so metamorphosed
as scarcely to be known; the men in dirty coarse cloth great coats, wide sackcloth trowsers
and slippers; the women in coarse calico wrappers, with a coloured handkerchief tied round
their hair. All the little gaudy finery they possess is kept for the evening, but even then
there is nothing either costly or elegant, or neat, as with us. In their amusements also is
the poverty of the people manifested. A person residing in Paris, and who had travelled no
further, would think that this observation was unjust, for in Paris there is no want of amusements;
the theatres are numerous, and all other species of entertainment are to be found. But in the
smaller towns, one little dirty theatre, ill lighted, with ragged scenery, dresses, and a beggarly
company of players, is all that is to be found. The price of admittance is also very low. The
poverty of the people will not admit of the innumerable descriptions of amusements which we
find in every little town in England: amateur concerts are sometimes got up, but for want of
funds they seldom last long. My subscription to one of these at the town where we resided,
was five francs per month, or about a shilling each concert. This may be taken as a specimen
of the price of French amusements.

STATE OF RELIGION.

THE order of the priesthood in France had suffered greatly in the revolution. They were everywhere
scouted and reviled, either for being supporters of the throne, or for being rich, or for being
moderès. Napoleon found them in this condition; he never more than tolerated them, and latterly,
by his open attack and cruel treatment of their chief, he struck the last and severest blow
against the church. Unable to bear the insults of the military, deprived of the means of support,
many of the clergy either emigrated or concealed themselves. In the principal towns, indeed,
the great establishments took the oath of allegiance to the tyrant; but the inferior clergy
and the country curates met nowhere with encouragement, and were allowed to starve, or to pick
up a scanty pittance by teaching schools in a community who laughed at education, at morality,
and religion.

Many of the churches, convents, and monasteries were demolished; many were converted into barracks,
storehouses, and hospitals. We saw but one village church in our travels through France, and
even in the larger towns we found the places of public worship in a state of dilapidation.
I went to see the palace of the Archbishop at Aix; out of a suite of most magnificent rooms,
about 30 in number, one miserable little chamber was furnished for his highness. In the rest,
the grandeur of former days was marked by the most beautiful tapestry on some part of the walls,
while other parts had been laid bare and daubed over with caps of liberty, and groupes of soldiers
and guillotines, and indecent inscriptions. The nitches for statues, and the frames of pictures,
were seen empty. The objects which formerly filled them were dashed to pieces or burnt.

The conduct of the people at the churches marked the low state of religion: the higher ranks
talked in whispers, and even at times loudly, on their family concerns, their balls and concerts.
The peasantry and lower ranks behaved with more decency, but seemed to think the service a
mere form; they came in at all hours, and staid but a few minutes; went out and returned.

We had in our small society some very respectable clergymen; but I am sorry to say, we had
one instance shewing the immoral tendency of the celibacy of the clergy.

Very few of the convents remain. I have detailed our visit to one of them in my journal; we
found every thing decent and well conducted, but not with any thing like the strictness and
rigour we expected. At Aix there was a small establishment of Ursulines, a very strict order;
there was also a penitentiary establishment of Magdalenes, the rules of which were said by
the people of Aix to be of the most inhuman nature. The caterers for the establishment were
ordered to buy only spoilt provisions for food; fasting was prescribed for weeks together;
and the miserable young women lay on boards a foot in breadth, with scarce any clothing. Their
whole dress, when they went out, consisted of a shift and gown of coarsest hard blanket stuff.
They were employed in educating young children. I once met a party of them walking out with
their charges, who were chanting hymns and decorating these miserable walking skeletons with
flowers.

We had also at Aix a very celebrated preacher named De Coq. I went to hear him, and, though
much struck with his fluency of language, did not much admire his style of preaching; there
was too much of cant and declamation, and at times he made a most intolerable noise, roaring
as if he were addressing an army. This man, however, succeeded in drawing tears from the audience;
but this did not surprise me, for it is astonishing how easily this is accomplished. This reminds
me of a scene which I witnessed one evening at the theatre at Aix. We were seated next an old
Marquise with whom we were acquainted. The tragedy of Meropè, and particularly the part of
the son Egistus, was butchered in a very superior style; the Marquise turned to my sister,
and said to her, "Oh how touching! how does it happen that it does not make you cry? But you
shall see me cry in a minute; I shall just think of my poor son whom Napoleon took for the
conscription." She then by degrees worked herself up into a fit of tears, and really cried
for a pretty tolerable space of time. A most amusing soliloquy took place at our house the
night before the national guard left Aix, in pursuit of Bonaparte. This lady came to pay us
a visit; and after crying very prettily, she exclaimed, "Oh, the barbare, he has taken away
my son--he has ruined my concert which I had fixed for Thursday--we were to have had such music!--and
Jule, my son, was to have sung; but Jule is gone, perhaps to----Oh, mon Dieu! mon Dieu!--and
I had laid out three hundred pounds in repairing my houses at Marseilles, and not one of them
will now be let--and I had engaged Ciprè (a fiddler), for Thursday; and we should have been
so happy."--But this is a most extraordinary episode to introduce when talking of the state
of religion.

Some measures taken latterly by the King, seem to have been but ill received by the French,
and they then shewed how little attention they were inclined to pay to religious restraints,
which were at variance with their interests and their pleasures: I allude to the shutting of
the theatres and the shops on Sunday. Perhaps, considering the nature of their religion, and
the long habit which had sanctioned the devoting of this day to amusement, the measure was
too hasty. Certain it is, that neither this measure, nor the celebration of the death of Louis
XVI. did any good to the Bourbon cause. The last could not fail to awaken many disagreeable
feelings of remorse and of shame: It was a kind of punishment to all who had in any way joined
in that horrid event. At Aix, the solemn ceremony was repeatedly interrupted by the noise of
the military. We remarked one man in particular, who continued laughing, and beating his musket
on the ground. On leaving the church, our landlord told us, he was one of those who had led
one of the Marseilles bands at that time; and that there were in that small community, who
had assembled in church, more than five or six others of the same description. How many of
these men must there have been in all France whose feelings, long laid asleep, were awakened
by such a ceremony!

ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE.

NAPOLEON'S greatest ambition was to inter-meddle with everything in the kingdom. With most
of the changes which his restless spirit has produced, the French have no great reason to be
satisfied; but all agree, that with regard to the administration of justice, and the courts,
for the trial of civil suits in France, the alterations which he has introduced, have been
ultimately of essential benefit to the country. Previous to his accession to the government,
the sources of equity were universally contaminated, and the influence of corruption most deeply
felt in every part of the constitution of their courts. On the accession of Napoleon to the
throne, the most respectable and able men among the judges and magistrates were continued in
their appointments, and the vacancies, occasioned by the dismission of those found guilty of
corruption, (many of whom had, during the confusions of the revolution, actually seized their
situations), were supplied, in frequent instances, by those of the older nobility, whose characters
and principles were known and respected. In addition to this, the civil and the criminal codes
were both carefully revised. In this revisal, the greatest legal talents in the nation were
employed. The laws of different nations, more particularly of England, were brought to contribute
in the formation of a new code; and by a compilation from the Roman, the French and the English
law, a new institute, or body of civil and criminal justice, was formed, intended for the regulation
of the whole kingdom. Previous to this change, it must be observed, that the laws, in the different
provinces of the kingdom, were in some measure formed upon, and always interwoven with, the
particular observances and customs of their respective provinces; the inevitable consequence
was, that every province, possessing different usages, had also a different code. [44]"La bizarrerie
des loix," says Mercier, "et la varieté des coutumes font que l'avocat le plus savant devient
un ignore des qu'il se trouve en Gasgogne, ou en Normandie. Il perd a Vernon, un procés qu'il
avoit gagné a Poissy. Prenez le plus habile pour la consultation, et la plaidoyerie, eh bien,
il sera obligé d'avoir son avocat et son procureur, si on lui intente un proces dans le resort
de la plupart des autres parlemens." The consequence of this was an uncertainty, intricacy,
and want of any thing like regulating principles in the laws, and an incoherency and inconsistency
in the administration of both civil and criminal justice.

The improvements introduced by the late Emperor, have therefore, considered under this point
of view, been of no common benefit to the kingdom, as they have given, to some measure, certainty,
principle and consistency, the essential attributes of good laws, to what was formerly a mass
of confusion.

At Aix, where we resided, the head court is held for four provinces, and there is a college
for the study of law and divinity. Most of the acquaintances I there formed were gentlemen
belonging to the law; many of them had been liberally educated, were men of talents, and some
of them possessed acquirements which would have done honour to any bar. The opinion of all
these was strongly in favour of the new codes; and they go so far as to say, that when the
matter comes under consideration, there are very few things which the present government will
change, and very few judges who will lose their situations.

They allowed, however, that latterly, Napoleon had forgotten his usual moderation, and, incensed
against the importation of foreign merchandise, had instituted a court, and formed a new and
most rigorous code for the trial of all cases of smuggling and contraband trade. But fortunately
for the people, this court had scarcely commenced its severe inflictions, when the deposition
of Napoleon, and the subsequent peace with England, rendered its continuance unnecessary. The
punishments awarded by this court, were, in their rigour, infinitely more terrible than that
of any other in Europe. There was pot the slightest proportionment of the punishment to the
offence. For the sale of the smallest proportion of contraband goods, the unfortunate culprit
was condemned immediately to eight or ten years labour amongst the galley-slaves. For the weightier
offences, the importation of larger quantities of forbidden goods, perpetual labour, and even
death, were not unfrequently pronounced.

I was informed, that when Napoleon commanded the Senate to pass the decree for the institution
of this court, one of the members asked him, if he believed he would find Frenchmen capable
of executing his orders, and enforcing such laws? His answer was, "my salaries will soon find
judges;" and the consequence of this determination, upon his part, was, that while he paid
the judges of the other tribunals at Aix by a miserable annuity of one hundred and fifty pounds,
and two hundred pounds, the judges of the court of contraband were ordered to receive seven
hundred pounds and eight hundred pounds. Napoleon was perfectly right in his opinion; that
such was the want of honour and principle, and such the excessive poverty of France, that these
salaries would soon find judges. I have heard from unquestionable authority, that, for the
last vacancy which was filled up in that court, there were ten candidates.

The court-room, in which this law tribunal was held, is now occupied by a society of musical
amateurs, and a concert was given there, during our stay at Aix, once every week. One of the
lawyers, in talking of this court, informed me, that in that very room, where the judges of
the court of contraband sat, he had played in comedy and tragedy, pleaded causes, had taken
his part in concerts, and danced at balls, under its several revolutions, its different political
phases of a theatre, a court of justice, a concert and a ball-room. Exactly similar to this
was the fate of the churches, palaces, and the houses of individuals under Napoleon, which
were alternately barracks, hospitals, stables, courts of justice, caffés, restaurats, &c.

The penal code of the late Emperor breathes throughout a spirit of humanity, which must astonish
every one acquainted with his character. The punishment of death, which, according to Blackstone,
may be inflicted by the English law in one hundred and sixty different offences, is now in
France confined to the very highest crimes only; the number of which does not exceed twelve.
A minute attention has been paid to the different degrees of guilt in the commission of the
same crime; and according to these, the punishments are as accurately proportioned as the cases
will permit. One species of capital punishment has been ordained instead of that multitude
of cruel and barbarous deaths which were marshalled in terrible array along the columns of
the former code. This punishment is decapitation. The only exception to this is in the case
of parricide, in which, previous to decapitation, the right hand is cut off; and in the punishment
for high-treason, in which the prisoner is made to walk barefoot, and with a crape veil over
his head to the scaffold, where he is beheaded. Torture was abolished by Louis XVI., and has
never afterwards been resumed.

After Napoleon had it in view to form a new code for France, he was at great pains to collect
together the most upright and honourable, as well as the most able amongst the French lawyers;
the principal members of whom were Tronchet, one of the counsel who spoke boldly and openly
in defence of the unfortunate Louis XVI., Portalis, Malville, and Bigot de Preameneau. Under
such superintendance, the work was finished in a short time.

The trial by jury has been for some time established in France; but the Emperor, dreading that
so admirable an institution, if managed with an impartial hand might, in too serious a manner,
impose restraint upon his individual despotism, took particular care to subject those crimes,
which he dreaded might arise out of the feelings of the public, to the cognisance of special
tribunals. All trials originating out of the conscription, are placed under the care of a special
court, composed of a certain number of the criminal judges and military officers. In France,
there is no grand jury; but its place is supplied by that which they have denominated the Juré
d'Accusation. This is a court composed of a few members amongst the civil judges, assisted
by the Procureur-General or Attorney-General. Their juries for the trial of criminals are selected
from much higher classes in society than with us in England; a circumstance the effect of absolute
necessity, owing to the extreme ignorance of the middling ranks and the lower classes. In the
conducting of criminal trials, the manner of procedure is in a great measure different from
our English form. A criminal, when first apprehended, is carried, before the magistrate of
the town, generally the Mayor. He there undergoes repeated examinations; all the witnesses,
are summoned and examined, in a manner similar to the precognitions taken before the Sheriff
of Scotland, and the whole process is nearly as tedious as upon the trial. All the papers and
declarations are then sent with the accused, to the Juré d'Accusation, who also thoroughly
examine the prisoner and the witnesses; if grounds are found for the trial, the papers are
immediately laid before the "Cour d'Assize." Before this court, the prisoner is again specially
examined by its president. His former declarations are compared and confronted with his present
answers, and the strongest evidence against him, is often in this manner extracted from his
own story. It might certainly be imagined, that with all these precautions, it would be scarcely
possible that the guilty should escape. The very contrary is the case, and I have been informed
by some of the ablest lawyers in the courts here, that out of ten prisoners, really guilty,
six haves good chance of getting clear off. They ascribe this to two principal causes, 1st,
That the proceedings become so extremely tedious and intricate, that it is impossible for the
jury to keep them all in their recollection, and that, forgetting the general tenor of the
evidence, they suffer the last impressions, those made by the counsel for the prisoner, to
bias their judgment, and to regulate their verdict. In the 2d place, It is customary for the
president of the court to enter into a long examination and cross-examination of the prisoner,
(assisted and prompted in his questions by the rest of the judges), in a severe and peremptory
style, and what is too often the case with the judge, in his anxiety to condemn, to identify
himself with the public prosecutor. He appears, in the eye of the jury, more in the light of
an interested individual, anxious to drag the offender in the most summary manner to the punishment
of the law, than as an upright and unbiassed judge, whose duty it is coolly to consider the
whole case, to weigh the evidence of the respective witnesses, to consider, with benevolent
attention, the defence of the prisoner, and, after all this, to pronounce, with authoritative
impartiality, the sentence of the law. This naturally prejudices the jury in favour of the
prisoner; and few, even in our own country, who may have been witness to the common routine
of our criminal procedure, will not themselves have felt that immediate and irresistible impression,
which is made upon the mind of the spectator, when he sees on one side the solemn array of
the court, the judges, the officers, and all the terrible show of justice; and on the other,
the trembling, solitary, unbefriended criminal, who awaits in silence the sentence of the law.
One difference, however, between the effects produced by the respective criminal codes of France
and England, ought to be here remarked. In England, owing to the principles and practice of
our criminal law, it too frequently happens, that the most open and notorious criminals escape,
whilst the less able, but more innocent offenders, those who might be easily reclaimed, who
have gone little way in the road of crime, but who are less able to do themselves justice at
their trial, fall an easy sacrifice to the rigour of our criminal code. In France, owing to
the custom of the cross-examinations of the prisoner, by the president and the different judges,
this can never happen. The notoriety of his character prevents the common feelings of compassion
in the breasts of the jury; the severity of the interrogations renders it impossible that any
fictitious story, when confronted with his former examinations before the magistrate and the
Juré d'Accusation, can long hold together, and he is, in this manner, generally convicted by
the evidence extracted from his own mouth upon the trial.

The present style of French pleading is exactly what we might be led to expect from the peculiar
state of manners, and the particular character of that singular people. It is infinitely further
removed from dry legal ratiocination, and much more allied to real eloquence, than any thing
we met with in England. Any one who is acquainted with the natural inborn fluency in conversation
of every individual whom he meets in France, may be able to form some idea of the astonishing
command of words in a set of men who are bred to public speaking. One bad effect arises from
this, which is, that if the counsel is not a man of ability, this amazing volubility, which
is found equally in all, serves more to weaken than to convince; for the little sense there
may be, is spread over so wide a surface, or is diluted with such a dose of verbiage, that
the whole becomes tasteless and insipid to the last degree. But this fluency, on the other
hand, in the hands of a man of talents and genius, is a most powerful weapon. It hurries you
along with a velocity which, from its very rapidity, is delightful; and where it cannot convince,
it amuses, fascinates, and overpowers you.

One thing struck me as remarkable in the French form of trial, which perhaps might be with
benefit adopted by England. All exceptions and challenges to jurymen are made in private, and
not, as with us, in open court. This is a more delicate method, and no man's character can
suffer (as is sometimes the case in England) by being rejected. The trial by jury is very far
from being popular in France; indeed, upon an average I have heard more voices against it than
advocates for its continuance.

It might be imagined, from the advantages in the administration of criminal justice, that France
was in this respect equal, if not superior to Britain.--This, however, is by no means the case.
The written criminal code of France is indeed apparently more humane, and the civil code less
intricate and voluminous than with us in England. But there is a wide and striking difference
between this code, drawn up with all the luminousness of speculative benevolence, and the manner
in which the same code is carried into execution: What signifies the purity of the code, if
the executive part of the system, the nomination of the judges, the direction of the sentences,
and the reversal of the whole proceedings, was submitted to the power, and constituted part
of the iron prerogative, of a despotic Sovereign. It was the constant practice of the late
Emperor to appoint, whenever it was necessary for the accomplishment of his own ends, what
he denominated a COUR PREVOITALE--a species of court consisting of judges of his own selection,
who, with summary procedure, condemned or acquitted, according to the pleasure of its master.
Not only was this court erected, which was in every respect under the controul of the Emperor,
but by means of his police emissaries, of those pensioned spies whom he insinuated into all
the offices, and the remotest branches of the political administration, he contrived to overawe
the different judges, to keep them in perpetual fear of the loss of their official situation,
and in this manner to beat down the evidence, to bias the sentence, and finally, to direct
the verdict. The judicial situations became latterly so completely under the influence of the
creatures of the Court, that I was informed by the lawyers, that no judge was sure of remaining
for two months in his official situation.

Upon the important subject of criminal delinquency, I am sorry to say the only information
I contrived to collect was extremely unsatisfactory. I had been promised, by an intelligent
barrister, with whom I had the good fortune to become acquainted, a detailed opinion upon the
state of criminal delinquency in France; but in the meantime Napoleon landed from Elba, and
my friend was called away from his civil duties to join the national guard, who were marched,
when it was too late, in pursuit of Bonaparte.

From the calendar of crimes, however, which I had the opportunity of examining at the Aix assizes,
as well as from the decided opinion of many of the lawyers there, I should be induced to hazard
the opinion, that the crimes of robbery, burglary, and murder, are infinitely less frequent
than in England. The great cause of this is undoubtedly to be attributed to the excellence
of their police. Wherever such a preventive as the system of Espionage, and that carried to
the perfection which we find it possessing in that country, exists, it is impossible that the
greater crimes should be found to any alarming decree. There is a power, a vigour and an omnipresence
in this effective police, which can check every criminal excess before it has attained any
thing like a general or rooted influence throughout the kingdom; and its power, under the administration
of Napoleon, was exerted to an excessive degree in France. Such a mode, however, of diminishing
the catalogue of crimes, could exist only under a state of things which the inhabitants of
a free country would not suffer for a moment; and indeed, to anyone possessing but the faintest
idea of what liberty is, there is something in the idea of a system of espionage which is dreadful.
It is like some of those dark and gigantic dæmons, embodied by the genius of fiction, the form
of which you cannot trace, although you feel its presence, which stalks about enveloped in
congenial gloom, and whose iron grasp falls upon you the more terrible, because it is unsuspected.
Fortunately such a monster can never be met with in a free country. It shuns the pure, and
untainted atmosphere of liberty, and its lungs will only play with freedom in the foul and
thick air of a decided despotism.

The effects of this system of espionage, in destroying every thing upon which individual happiness
in society depends; the free and unrestrained communication of opinion between friends, and
even the confidence of domestic society, can hardly be conceived by any one who has lived in
a free country. Upon this subject, I had an opportunity of conversing with a most respectable
and intelligent British merchant, who, previous to the revolution, had been a partner in a
banking-house in the French metropolis; and afterwards had the misfortune of being kept a prisoner
in Paris for the last twelve years. The accounts he gave us regarding the excessive rigour
of the police, and the jealousy of every thing like intercourse, were truly terrible. It had
become a maxim in Paris, an axiom whose truth was proved by the general practice and conduct
of its inhabitants, to believe every third person a spy. Any matter of moment, any thing bordering
upon confidential communication, was alone to be trusted entre quatre yeux. The servants in
every family, it was well known, were universally in the pay of government. They could not
be hired till they produced their licenses, and these licenses, to serve as domestics, they
all procured from the office of the police. From that office their wages were as certain, and
probably (if the information they conveyed was of importance), more regularly paid than those
they received from their masters. Even, therefore, in the most secret retirement of your own
family, you could never speak with perfect freedom. Mr B----, the gentleman above mentioned,
informed me, that before he dared to mention, even to his wife or family, any subject connected
with the affairs of the day, or when they wished to speak freely and unrestrainedly upon any
point whatever, every corner of the room was first examined, the chinks of the doors, and the
walls of the adjoining apartments underwent a similar scrutiny; and even then they did not
dare to introduce any subject which was nearly connected with the political government of the
country.

A lawyer, who lived upon the same floor with this gentleman, was astonished, one morning, by
the entry of the police officers into his room at four in the morning, without the slightest
previous warning. They pulled him out of bed--hurried him away to the police office, kept him
in strict custody for several days, seized all his papers; and having at last discovered that
their suspicions were ill-founded, and that he had been secured upon erroneous information,
he was brought back to his lodgings by the same hands, and in the same summary manner in which
he had been removed; and he is to this day ignorant of the cause of his detention, or the nature
of the offence of which he had been suspected.

Amongst the few English who, along with Mr B. were detained in Paris, it was naturally to be
expected, that the precautions taken to deceive the police, and to prevent the suspicion of
any secret intercourse, were still more severe and rigorous than were used by the native French.
As the subjects of this country, they naturally became the objects of continual suspicion,
and were more strictly watched than any other persons. They contrived, however, to procure,
although at distant intervals, the sight of an English newspaper. Nine or ten months frequently
elapsed without their receiving any intelligence from England. When they had the good fortune
to procure one, the precautions necessary to be adopted were hardly to be believed. The same
gentleman informed me, that upon receiving an English paper, he did not venture to mention
the circumstance even to his wife and children, lest, in their joy, some incautious words might
have escaped from them before the servants of the family, in which case, detection would have
been immediate, and imprisonment inevitable. Keeping it, therefore, entirely to himself, he
concealed it from every eye during the day, and at night, after the family had gone to bed,
he sat up, lighted his taper, and, when every thing was still and silent about him, ventured,
only then, to read over the paper, and to get by heart the most important parts of the intelligence
regarding England; and he afterwards transmitted the invaluable present to some secret friend,
who, in the same manner, dared only to peruse it at midnight, and with the same precautions.

A very sensible distinction has been made in the French code, in the difference of punishment
which is inflicted upon robbery, when it has or has not been accompanied by murder; and the
consequence of such distinction is, that in that country the most determined robberies are
seldom, as they often are with us, accompanied with murder; whilst the accurate proportionment
of punishment to the crimes, encourages persons possessing information to come forward, and
removes those natural scruples which all must feel, when they reflect that they may be the
chief instruments in bringing down a capital penalty upon the head of an individual, whose
trivial offence was in no respect deserving of this last and severest punishment of the law.

