 They stand erect, and have long yellow legs, with which they run very fast; their wings
are small and useless for flying, but they are armed with sharp spurs for defence, and also,
I imagine, for assisting them in climbing, as they are found generally among the rocks. The
name they give this bird here is simply "cock," its only note being a noise very much resembling
the repetition of that word. Its flesh is plump, fat, and excellent eating.

VISIT TO A PENGUIN ROOKERY.

The spot of ground occupied by our settlers is bounded on each side by high bluffs, which extend
far into the sea, leaving a space in front, where all their hogs run nearly wild, as they are
prevented going beyond those limits by those natural barriers; and the creatures who, at stated
periods, come up from the sea, remain in undisturbed possession of the beaches beyond our immediate
vicinity. The weather being favourable, we launched our boat early in the morning, for the
purpose of procuring a supply of eggs for the consumption of the family. We heard the chattering
of the penguins from the rookery long before we landed, which was noisy in the extreme, and
groups of them were scattered all over the beach; but the high thick grass on the declivity
of the hill seemed their grand establishment, and they were hidden by it from our view. As
we could not find any place where we could possibly land our boat in safety, I and two more
swam on shore with bags tied round our necks to hold the eggs in, and the boat with one of
the men lay off, out of the surf. I should think the ground occupied by these birds (if I may
be allowed so to call them) was at least a mile in circumference, covered in every part with
grasses and reeds, which grew considerably higher than my head; and on every gentle ascent,
beginning from the beach, on all the large grey rocks, which occasionally appeared above this
grass, sat perched groups of these strange and uncouth-looking creatures; but the noise which
rose up from beneath baffles all description! As our business lay with the noisy part of this
community, we quietly crept under the grass, and commenced our plundering search, though there
needed none, so profuse was the quantity. The scene altogether well merits a better description
than I can give--thousands, and hundreds of thousands, of these little two-legged erect monsters
hopping around us, with voices very much resembling in tone that of the human; all opened their
throats together: so thickly clustered in groups that it was almost impossible to place the
foot without dispatching one of them. The shape of the animal, their curious motions, and their
most extraordinary voices, made me fancy myself in a kingdom of pigmies. The regularity of
their manners, their all sitting in exact rows, resembling more the order of a camp than a
rookery of noisy birds, delighted me. These creatures did not move away on our approach, but
only increased their noise, so we were obliged to displace them forcibly from their nests;
and this ejectment was not produced without a considerable struggle on their parts; and, being
armed with a formidable beak, it soon became a scene of desperate warfare. We had to take particular
care to protect our hands and legs from their attacks: and for this purpose each one had provided
himself with a short stout club. The noise they continued to make during our ramble through
their territories the sailors said was, "Cover 'em up, cover 'em up." And, however incredible
it may appear, it is nevertheless true, that I heard those words so distinctly repeated, and
by such various tones of voices, that several times I started, and expected to see one of the
men at my elbow. Even these little creatures, as well as the monstrous sea elephant, appear
to keep up a continued warfare with each other. As the penguins sit in rows, forming regular
lanes leading down to the beach, whenever one of them feels an inclination to refresh herself
by a plunge into the sea, she has to run the gauntlet through the whole street, every one pecking
at her as she passes without mercy; and though all are occupied in the same employment, not
the smallest degree of friendship seems to exist; and whenever we turned one off her nest,
she was sure to be thrown amongst foes; and, besides the loss of her eggs, was invariably doomed
to receive a severe beating and pecking from her companions. Each one lays three eggs, and
after a time, when the young are strong enough to undertake the journey, they go to sea, and
are not again seen till the ensuing spring. Their city is deserted of its numerous inhabitants,
and quietness reigns till nature prompts their return the following year, when the same noisy
scene is repeated, as the same flock of birds returns to the spot where they were hatched.
After raising a tremendous tumult in this numerous colony, and sustaining continued combat,
we came off victorious, making capture of about a thousand eggs, resembling in size, colour,
and transparency of shell, those of a duck; and the taking possession of this immense quantity
did not occupy more than one hour, which may serve to prove the incalculable number of birds
collected together. We did not allow them sufficient time, after landing, to lay all their
eggs; for, had the season been further advanced, and we had found three eggs in each nest,
the whole of them might probably have proved addled, the young partly formed, and the eggs
of no use to us; but the whole of those we took turned out good, and had a particularly fine
and delicate flavour. It was a work of considerable difficulty to get our booty safe into the
boat--so frail a cargo--with so tremendous a surf running against us. However, we finally succeeded,
though not without smashing a considerable number of the eggs.

THE SEA ELEPHANT.

I saw, for the first time, what the settlers call a pod of sea elephants. At this particular
season these animals lay strewed about the beach, and, unless you disturb them, the sight of
a man will not frighten them away. I was determined to get a good portrait of some of them,
and accordingly took my sketch-book and pencil, and seated myself very near to one of them,
and began my operations, feeling sure I had now got a most patient sitter, for they will lie
for weeks together without stirring; but I had to keep throwing small pebbles at him, in order
to make him open his eyes, and prevent his going to sleep. The flies appear to torment these
unwieldy monsters most cruelly, their eyes and nostrils being stuffed full of them. I got a
good sketch of the group. They appeared to stare at me occasionally with some little astonishment,
stretching up their immense heads and looking around; but finding all still (I suppose they
considered me a mere rock), they composed themselves to sleep again. They are the most shapeless
creatures about the body. I could not help comparing them to an over-grown maggot, and their
motion is similar to that insect. The face bears some rude resemblance to the human countenance;
the eye is large, black, and expressive; excepting two very small flippers or paws at the shoulder,
the whole body tapers down to a fish's tail; they are of a delicate mouse colour, the fur is
very fine, but too oily for any other purpose than to make mocassins for the islanders. The
bull is of an enormous size, and would weigh as heavily as his namesake of the land; and in
that one thing consists their only resemblance, for no two animals can possibly be more unlike
each other. It is a very curious phenomenon, how they can possibly exist on shore; for, from
the first of their landing, they never go out to sea, and they lie on a stormy beach for months
together without tasting any food, except consuming their own fat, for they gradually waste
away; and as this fat or blubber is the great object of value, for which they are attacked
and slaughtered, the settlers contrive to commence operations against them upon their first
arrival, for it is well ascertained that they take no sustenance whatever on shore. I examined
the contents of the stomach of one they had just killed, but could not make out the nature
of what it contained. The matter was of a remarkably bright green colour. They have many enemies,
even in the water; one called the killer, a species of grampus, which makes terrible havoc
amongst them, and will attack and take away the carcass of one from alongside a boat. But man
is their greatest enemy, and causes the most destruction to their race: he pursues them to
all quarters of the globe.

VISIT FROM THE NATIVES AT TERRA DEL FUEGO.

During our stay, we had, at various times, visits from the natives. They were all at first
very shy, but after they found our friendly disposition towards them, they became more sociable
and confiding.

On the 11th of March three bark canoes arrived, containing four men, four women, and a girl
about sixteen years old, four little boys and four infants, one of the latter about a week
old, and quite naked. They had rude weapons, viz. slings to throw stones, three rude spears,
pointed at the end with bone, and notched on one side with barbed teeth. With this they catch
their fish, which are in great quantities among the kelp. Two of the natives were induced to
come on board, after they had been alongside for upwards of an hour, and received many presents,
for which they gave their spears, a dog, and some of their rude native trinkets. They did not
shew or express surprise at anything on board, except when seeing one of the carpenters engaged
in boring a hole with a screw-auger through a plank, which would have been a long task for
them. They were very talkative, smiling when spoken to, and often bursting into loud laughter,
but instantly settling into their natural serious and sober cast.

They were found to be great mimics, both in gesture and sound, and would repeat any word of
our language, with great correctness of pronunciation. Their imitations of sounds were truly
astonishing.

Their mimicry became at length annoying, and precluded our getting at any of their words or
ideas. It not only extended to words or sounds, but actions also, and was at times truly ridiculous.
The usual manner of interrogating for names was quite unsuccessful. On pointing to the nose,
for instance, they did the same. Anything they saw done they would mimic, and with an extraordinary
degree of accuracy. On these canoes approaching the ship, the principal one of the family,
or chief, standing up in his canoe, made a harangue. Although they have been heard to shout
quite loud, yet they cannot endure a noise; and when the drum beat, or a gun was fired, they
invariably stopped their ears. They always speak to each other in a whisper.

