Mancini begins his outline of the course of instruction in singing with this striking sentence:
"Nothing is more insufferable and more inexcusable in a musician than wrong intonation; singing
in the throat or in the nose will certainly be tolerated rather than singing out of tune."
This is followed by the advice to the teacher to ascertain beyond a doubt that a prospective
pupil is endowed with a true musical ear. This being done the pupil is to begin his studies
by sol-fa-ing the scales. "Having determined the disposition and capacity of the student with
respect to intonation, and finding him able and disposed to succeed, let him fortify himself
in correct intonation by sol-fa-ing the scale, ascending and descending. This must be executed
with scrupulous attention in order that the notes may be perfectly intoned."

In this practice the quality of the tone is of the highest importance. "The utmost care is
necessary with the student to render him able to manage this portion of his voice with the
proper sweetness and proportion." Mancini takes it for granted that the student will progress
steadily on account of this practice. "When the teacher observes that the pupil is sufficiently
free in delivering the voice, in intonation, and in naming the notes, let him waste no time,
but have the pupil vocalize without delay."

Regarding the registers, Mancini disagrees with Tosi and names only two. "Voices ordinarily
divide themselves into two registers which are called, one of the chest, the other of the head,
or falsetto." His method was to exercise the voice at first in the chest register, and then
gradually to extend the compass of the voice upward. "Every student can for himself with perfect
ease recognize the difference between these two separate registers. It will suffice therefore
to commence by singing the scale, for example, if a soprano, from G to d;[10] let him take
care that these five notes are sonorous, and say them with force and clearness, and without
effort." For uniting the registers, "the most certain means is to hold back the tones of the
chest and to sing the transition notes in the head register, increasing the power little by
little."

[Note 10: Mancini of course uses the Sol-Fa names of these notes.]

Mancini devotes a few pages to a description of the vocal organs. This fact is cited by several
modern theorists in support of their statement that the old masters based their methods on
mechanical principles. In the following chapter this topic of Mancini's treatise will be considered.

Probably the best summary of the old Italian method offered by any modern teacher is contained
in a little booklet by J. Frank Botume, entitled Modern Singing Methods. (Boston, 1885. The
citations are from the fourth edition, 1896.) Speaking of the meaning of the word method, as
applied to a system of rules for acquiring the correct vocal action, this writer says: "If
a teacher says, 'that tone is harsh, sing more sweetly,' he has given no method to his pupil.
He has asked the scholar to change his tone, but has not shown him how to do it. If, on the
other hand, he directs the pupil to keep back the pressure of the breath, or to change the
location of the tone; if he instructs him in regard to the correct use of his vocal cords,
or speaks of the position of his tongue, of his diaphragm, of his mouth, etc., he gives him
method. The Italian teachers of the early period of this art had so little method that it can
hardly be said to have existed with them. In fact, the word method, as now used, is of comparatively
modern origin. The founders of the art of singing aimed at results directly; the manner of
using the vocal apparatus for the purpose of reaching these results troubled them comparatively
little. The old Italian teacher took the voice as he found it. He began with the simplest and
easiest work, and trusted to patient and long-continued exercise to develop the vocal apparatus.
In all this there is no method as we understand the term. The result is aimed at directly.
The manner of getting it is not shown. There is no conscious control of the vocal apparatus
for the purpose of effecting a certain result."

This sums up beautifully the external aspects of the old Italian method, and of modern methods
as well. It points out clearly the difference between the old and the modern system. But it
is a mistake to say that the old masters followed no systematized plan of instruction. Tosi's
advice, already quoted ("Let the master provide himself with examples of Sol-fa, leading insensibly
from the easy to the difficult," etc.), shows a thorough grasp of the meaning of methodical
instruction. Once the real nature of vocal training is understood, both Tosi and Mancini are
seen to describe a well worked out system of Voice Culture. The only important difference between
the old and the new system is this: one relied on instinctive and imitative processes for imparting
the correct vocal action, the other seeks to accomplish the same result through the mechanical
management of the vocal organs. In this regard the advantage is all on the side of the old
Italian method.

One question regarding the old method remains to be answered. This has to do with the use of
the empirical precepts in practical instruction. So far as the written record goes we have
no means of answering this question. Neither Tosi nor Mancini mentions the old precepts in
any way. The answer can therefore be only conjectural. We may at once dismiss the idea that
the old masters used the precepts in the currently accepted manner as rules for the mechanical
management of the voice. This application of the empirical precepts followed upon the acceptance
of the idea of mechanical voice culture.

A fine description of perfect singing, considered empirically, was found to be embodied in
the traditional precepts. Such a description of correctly produced tone might be of great value
in the training of the ear. The sense of hearing is developed by listening; and attentive listening
is rendered doubly effective in the singer's education by the attention being consciously directed
to particular characteristics of the sounds observed.

A highly important aspect of ear training in Voice Culture is the acquainting the student with
the highest standards of singing. The student derives a double advantage from listening to
artistic singing when he knows what to listen for. Telling the student that in perfect singing
the throat seems to be open makes him keenly attentive in observing this characteristic sound
of the correctly produced tone. This seems to be the most effective manner of utilizing the
empirical precepts. A student may be helped in imitating correct models of singing by knowing
what characteristics of the tones it is most important to reproduce. In pointing out to the
student his own faults of production, the judicious use of the precepts might also be of considerable
value. Probably the old masters treated the precepts about in this fashion. This has occurred
in spite of the earnest efforts of vocal teachers to preserve the old traditions. If the conclusions
drawn in the preceding chapter are justified, the old method consisted of a system of teaching
singing by imitation. Assuming this to be true, there should now be no difficulty in accounting
for the disappearance of the imitative method by tracing the development of the mechanical idea.

Imitative Voice Culture was purely empirical in the ordinary meaning of this word. The old
masters did not knowingly base their instruction on any set of principles. They simply taught
as their instincts prompted them. There can now be no doubt that the old masters were fully
justified in their empiricism. They taught singing as Nature intends it to be taught. But the
old masters were not aware of the scientific soundness of their position. So soon as the correctness
of empirical teaching was questioned they abandoned it without an attempt at defense. As a
system of Voice Culture, the old method occupied a weak strategic position. With absolute right
on its side, it still had no power of resistance against hostile influences.

This does not imply that the old masters were ignorant men. On the contrary, the intellectual
standard of the vocal profession seems to have been fully as high two hundred years ago as
to-day. Even famous composers and musical theorists did not disdain to teach singing. But this
very fact, the generally high culture of the old masters, was an important factor in the weakness
of the old method against attack. The most intelligent masters were the ones most likely to
abandon the empirical system in favor of supposedly scientific and precise methods of instruction.

The hostile influence to which the old Italian method succumbed was the idea of mechanical
vocal management. This idea entered almost imperceptibly into the minds of vocal teachers in
the guise of a scientific theory of Voice Culture. A short historical sketch will bring this
fact out clearly. This necessitates a repetition of some of the material of Chapter I of Part
I; the entire subject will however appear in a new light now that the true nature of the mechanical
idea is understood.

From the founding of the art of Voice Culture, about 1600, up to 1741, no vocalist seems to
have paid any attention to the anatomy or muscular movements of the vocal organs. In 1741 a
French physician, Ferrein, presented to the Academy of Sciences a treatise on the anatomy of
the vocal organs, entitled "De la Formation de la Voix de l'Homme." This treatise was published
in the same year, and it seems to have attracted at once the attention of the most enlightened
masters of singing. That Ferrein was the first to call the attention of vocalists to the mechanical
features of tone-production is strongly indicated in the German translation of Tosi's "Observations."
In the original Italian edition, 1723, and the English translation, 1742, there is absolutely
no mention of the anatomy or physiology of the vocal organs. But in preparing the German edition,
published in 1757, the translator, J. F. Agricola, inserted a description of the vocal organs
which he credited directly to Ferrein.

Mancini followed Agricola's example, and included in this "Riflessioni" (1776) a brief description
of the vocal organs. But Mancini made no attempt to apply this description in formulating a
system of instruction. He recommends the parents of a prospective singer to ascertain, by a
physician's examination, that the child's vocal organs are normal and in good health. He also
gives one mechanical rule, so obvious as to seem rather quaint. "Every singer must place his
mouth in a natural smiling position, that is, with the upper teeth perpendicularly and moderately
removed from the lower." Beyond this Mancini says not a word of mechanical vocal management.
There is no mention of breathing, or tone reflection, or laryngeal action. Although Mancini
borrowed his description of the vocal organs from Ferrein, his notion of the mechanics of tone-production
was very crude. "The air of the lungs operates on the larynx in singing exactly as it operates
on the head of the flute."

Voice Culture has passed through three successive periods. From 1600 to 1741 instruction in
singing was purely empirical. Ferrein's treatise may be said to mark the beginning of a transition
period during which empirical instruction was gradually displaced by so-called scientific methods.
This transition period lasted, roughly speaking, till the invention of the laryngoscope in
1855. Since that time vocal instruction has been carried on almost exclusively along mechanical
lines.

No vocal teacher had ever heard of a problem of tone-production previous to 1741, and indeed
for many years thereafter. The earlier masters were not aware of any possibility of difficulty
in causing the voice to operate properly. Their success justified their ignoring of any mechanical
basis of instruction; but even of this justification the later masters of the old school were
only dimly conscious. They builded better than they knew. When any teacher of the transition
period was called upon to explain his manner of imparting the correct vocal action he was at
once put on the defensive. No champion of the imitative faculty could be found. This lack of
understanding of the basis of the empirical method, on the part of its most intelligent and
successful exponents, was the first cause of the weakness of this method against attack.

Another source of weakness in the hold of empirical systems on the vocal profession was seen
in the generally high intellectual standard of the more prominent teachers. These masters gladly
accepted the new knowledge of the basis of their art, offered them in the description of the
vocal organs. Thoroughly conversant with every detail of the empirical knowledge of the voice,
the masters of the transition period were well prepared to understand something of the mechanical
features of tone-production. By their auditory and muscular sensations of vocal tone they were
able, to their own satisfaction at least, to verify the statements of the anatomists.

It is not easy for us to put ourselves mentally in the position of a vocalist, thoroughly familiar
with the empirical knowledge of the voice, and yet ignorant of the first principles of vocal
mechanics. In all probability the early masters were not even aware that tone is produced by
the action of the breath on the larynx. They did not know that different qualities and pitches
result from special adjustments and contractions of the throat muscles. Yet they were keenly
aware of all the muscular sensations resulting from these contractions. We can well imagine
how interesting these vocalists of the early transition period must have found the description
of the cartilages and muscles of the throat.

It seems to us but a short step from the study of vocal mechanics to the application of the
results of this study in the formulating of a practical system of vocal instruction. Yet it
required more than sixty years for the vocal profession to travel so far. Even then the true
bearing of this development of Voice Culture was but dimly realized. In 1800 the mechanical
management of the voice was not even thought of. This is conclusively proved by a most important
work, the Méthode de Chant du Conservatoire de Musique, published in Paris in 1803.

There can be no question that this Méthode represents the most enlightened and advanced thought
of the vocal profession of that day. Not only does it contain everything then known about the
training of the voice; it was drawn up with the same exhaustive care and analytical attention
to detail that were devoted to the formulation of the metric system. To mechanical rules less
than one page is devoted. Respiration is the only subject to receive more than a few lines.
A system of breathing with flat abdomen and high chest is outlined, and the student is instructed
to practise breathing exercises daily. Five lines are contained in the chapter headed "De l'emission
du son," and these five lines are simply a warning against throaty and nasal quality. The pupil
is told to stand erect, and to open the mouth properly. But a foot-note is given to the rule
for the position of the mouth which shows how thoroughly the mechanical rule was subordinated
to considerations of tone quality. "As there is no rule without exceptions, we think it useful
to observe at what opening of the mouth the pupil produces the most agreeable, sonorous, and
pure quality of tone in order to have him always open the mouth in that manner." In the main
the Méthode outlines a purely empirical system of instruction, based on the guidance of the
voice by the ear. There can be no question that the idea of mechanical management of the voice
was introduced later than 1803.

Citations might be made to show the gradual advance of the mechanical idea from two interesting
works, Die Kunst des Gesanges, by Adolph B. Marx, Berlin, 1826, and Die grosse italienische
Gesangschule, by H. F. Mannstein, Dresden, 1834. But this is not necessary. It is enough to
say that Scientific Voice Culture was not generally thought to be identical with mechanical
vocal management until later than 1855.

Manuel Garcia was the first vocal teacher to undertake to found a practical method of instruction
on the mechanical principles of the vocal action. When only twenty-seven years old, in 1832,
Garcia determined to reform the practices of Voice Culture by furnishing an improved method
of instruction. (Grove's Dictionary.) His first definite pronouncement of this purpose is contained
in the preface to his École de Garcia, 1847. "As all the effects of song are, in the last analysis,
the product of the vocal organs, I have submitted the study to physiological considerations."
This statement of Garcia's idea of scientific instruction strikes us as a commonplace. But
that serves only to prove how thoroughly the world has since been converted to the idea of
mechanical Voice Culture. At that time it was generally believed to be a distinct advance.
Garcia expected to bring about a great improvement in the art of Voice Culture. His idea was
that the voice can be trained in less time and with greater certainty by mechanical than by
imitative methods. As for the inherent falsity of this idea, that has been sufficiently exposed.

So soon as the theory of mechanical vocal management began to find acceptance, the old method
yielded the ground to the new idea. That this occurred so easily was due to a number of causes.
Of these several have already been noted,--the readiness of the most prominent teachers to
broaden their field of knowledge, in particular. Other causes contributing to the acceptance
of the mechanical idea were the elusive character of empirical knowledge of the voice, and
the unconscious aspect of the instinct of vocal imitation. No master of the later transition
period deliberately discarded his empirical knowledge. This could have been possible only by
the master losing his sense of hearing. Neither did the master cease to rely on the imitative
faculty. Although unconsciously exercised, that was a habit too firmly fixed to be even intentionally
abandoned.

Public opinion also had much to do with the spread of the mechanical idea. Teachers found that
they could get pupils easier by claiming to understand the mechanical workings of the voice.
In order to obtain recognition, teachers were obliged to study vocal mechanics and to adapt
their methods to the growing demand for scientific instruction.

No master of this period seems to have intentionally abandoned the traditional method. Their
first purpose in adopting the new scientific idea was to elucidate and fortify the old method.
Every successful master undoubtedly taught many pupils who in their turn became teachers. There
must have been, in each succession of master and pupil, one teacher who failed to transmit
the old method in its entirety. Both master and pupil must have been unconscious of this. No
master can be believed to have deliberately withheld any of his knowledge from his pupils.
Neither can any student have been aware that he failed to receive his master's complete method.

Let us consider a typical instance of master and pupil in the later transition period. Instruction
in this case was probably of a dual character. Both teacher and pupil devoted most of their
attention to the mechanical features of tone-production. Yet the master continued to listen
closely to the student's voice, just as he had done before adopting the (supposedly) scientific
idea of instruction. Unconsciously he led the pupil to listen and imitate. When the student
found it difficult to apply the mechanical instruction the master would say, "Listen to me
and do as I do." Naturally this would bring the desired result. Yet both master and pupil would
attribute the result to the application of the mechanical rule. The student's voice would be
successfully trained, but he would carry away an erroneous idea of the means by which this
was accomplished. Becoming a teacher in his turn, the vocalist taught in this fashion would
entirely overlook the unobtrusive element of imitation and would devote himself to mechanical
instruction. He would, for example, construe the precept, "Sing with open throat," as a rule
to be directly applied; that he had acquired the open throat by imitating his master's tones
this teacher would be utterly unaware.

More than one generation of master and pupil was probably concerned, in each succession, in
the gradual loss of the substance of the old method. The possibility of learning to sing by
imitation was only gradually lost to sight. This is well expressed by Paolo Guetta. "The aphorism
'listen and imitate,' which was the device of the ancient school, coming down by way of tradition,
underwent the fate of all sane precepts passed along from generation to generation. Through
elimination and individual adaptation, through assuming the personal imprint, it degenerated
into a purely empirical formula." (Il Canto nel suo Mecanismo, Milan, 1902.)

Guetta is himself evidently at a loss to grasp the significance of the empirical formula, "Listen
and imitate." He seems however to be aware of an antagonism between imitation and mechanical
vocal management. The reason of this antagonism has already been noticed, but it will bear
repetition. For a teacher to tell a pupil to "hold your throat open and imitate my tone," is
to demand the impossible. A conscious effort directly to hold the throat open only causes the
throat to stiffen. In this condition the normal action of the voice is upset and the pupil
cannot imitate the teacher's voice.

This was the condition confronting the teacher of the second generation in the "maestral succession"
just considered. He found his pupils unable to get with their voices the results which had
come easily to him. Attributing his satisfactory progress as a student to the mastery of the
supposed mechanical principles of tone-production, this teacher ascribed his pupil's difficulties
to their failure to grasp the same mechanical ideas. As a natural consequence he labored even
more energetically along mechanical lines. Curiously, no teacher seems to have questioned the
soundness of the mechanical idea. Failure on the part of the pupil to obtain the correct use
of the voice served only to make the master more insistent on mechanical exercises.

In direct proportion to the prominence given to the idea of mechanical management of the voice,
the difficulties of teachers and students became ever more pronounced. The trouble caused by
throat stiffness led the teachers to seek new means for imparting the correct vocal action,
always along mechanical lines. In this way the progress of the mechanical idea was accelerated,
and the problem of tone-production received ever more attention.

Faith in the imitative faculty was gradually undermined by the progress of the mechanical idea.
With each succeeding generation of master and pupil, the mechanical idea became more firmly
established. Something akin to a vicious circle was involved in this progress. As attention
was paid in practical instruction to the mechanical operations of the voice, so the voice's
instinctive power of imitation was curtailed by throat stiffness. This served to make more
pressing the apparent need of means for the mechanical management of the voice. Thus the mechanical
idea found ever new arguments in its favor, based always on the difficulties itself had caused.

It is impossible to assign a precise date to the disappearance of the old Italian method. The
last exponent of the old traditions was Francesco Lamperti, who retired from active teaching
in 1876. Yet even Lamperti finally yielded, in theory at least, to the mechanical idea. In
the closing years of his active life as a teacher (1875 and 1876), Lamperti wrote a book descriptive
of his method, A Treatise on the Art of Singing (translated into English by J. C. Griffith
and published by Ed. Schuberth & Co., New York). When this work was about ready for the press,
Lamperti read Dr. Mandl's Gesundheitslehre der Stimme, containing the first definite statement
of the opposed-muscular-action theory of breath-control. At the last moment Lamperti inserted
a note in his book to signify his acceptance of this theory.

Vocal mechanics was at first studied by teachers of singing as a matter of purely academic
interest. No insufficiency of imitative teaching had ever been felt. Teachers of the transition
period, even so late probably as 1830, had in most cases no reason to be dissatisfied with
their methods of instruction. Garcia himself started out modestly enough to place the traditional
method, received from his father, on a definite basis. His first idea, announced in the preface
to the first edition of his École de Garcia, was to "reproduce my father's method, attempting
only to give it a more theoretical form, and to connect results with causes."

Interest in the mechanics of the voice continued to be almost entirely academic until the invention
of the laryngoscope in 1855. Then the popular note was struck. The marvelous industrial and
scientific progress of the preceding fifty years had prepared the world to demand advancement
in methods of teaching singing, as in everything else. When the secrets of the vocal action
were laid bare, a new and better method of teaching singing was at once expected. Within very
few years scientific knowledge of the voice was demanded of every vocal teacher.

Nothing could well be more natural than a belief in the efficacy of scientific knowledge of
the vocal organs as the basis of instruction in singing. Surely no earnest investigator of
the voice can be criticized for adopting this belief. No one ever thought of questioning the
soundness of the new scientific idea. The belief was everywhere accepted, as a matter of course,
that methods of instruction in singing were about to be vastly improved. Vocal theorists spoke
confidently of discovering means for training the voice in a few months of study. The singer's
education under the old system had demanded from four to seven years; science was expected
to revolutionize this, and to accomplish in months what had formerly required years.

Even then tone-production was not seen to be a distinct problem. The old imitative method was
still successfully followed. No one thought of discarding the traditional method, but only
of improving it by reducing it to scientific principles. But that could not last. Soon after
the attempt began to be made to manage the voice mechanically, tone-production was found to
contain a real problem. This was of course due to the introduction of throat stiffness.

From that time on (about 1860 to 1865), the problem of tone-production has become steadily
more difficult of solution in each individual case. This problem has been, since 1865, the
one absorbing topic of Voice Culture. Probably the most unfortunate single fact in the history
of Voice Culture is that scientific study of the voice was from the beginning confined solely
to the mechanical features of tone-production. Had scientific investigators turned their attention
also to the analysis of the auditory impressions of vocal tones, and to the psychological aspect
of tone-production, scientific instruction in singing would probably not have been identified
with mechanical management of the voice. All the subsequent difficulties of the vocal profession
would almost certainly have been avoided.

Every attempt at a solution of the problem of tone-production has been made along strictly
mechanical lines. Attention has been devoted solely to the anatomy and physiology of the vocal
organs, and to the acoustic principles of the vocal action. Since 1865 hardly a year has passed
without some important contribution to the sum of knowledge of the vocal mechanism. For many
years this development of Vocal Science was eagerly followed by the vocal teachers. Any seemingly
authoritative announcement of a new theory of the voice was sure to bring its reward in an
immediate influx of earnest students. Prominent teachers made it their practice to spend their
vacations in studying with the famous specialists and investigators. Each new theory of the
vocal action was at once put into practice, or at any rate this attempt was made. Yet each
new attempt brought only a fresh disappointment. The mystery of the voice was only deepened
with each successive failure at solution.

A review in detail of the development of Vocal Science would be of only academic interest.
Very little of practical moment would probably be added to the outline of modern methods contained
in Part I.

Teachers of singing at present evince an attitude of skepticism toward new theories of the
vocal action. Voice Culture has settled along well-established lines. In the past fifteen years
little change can be noted in the practices of vocal teachers. The mechanical idea is so firmly
established that no question is ever raised as to its scientific soundness. Under the limitations
imposed by this erroneous idea, teachers do their best to train the voices entrusted to their care.

Vocal Science is of vastly less importance in modern Voice Culture than the world in general
supposes. Only an imaginary relation has ever existed between the scientific knowledge of the
voice and practical methods of instruction. To cause the summits of the arytenoid cartilages,
for example, to incline toward each other is entirely beyond the direct power of the singer.
How many similar impossibilities have been seriously advocated can be known only to the academic
student of Vocal Science. Vocal teachers in general have ceased to attempt any such application
of the doctrines of Vocal Science. Even if these doctrines could be shown to be scientifically
sound it would still be impossible to devise means for applying them to the management of the
voice. Accepted Vocal Science has contributed only one element of the practical scheme of modern
voice culture; this is the erroneous notion that the vocal organs require to be managed mechanically.

CHAPTER VIII

THE MATERIALS OF RATIONAL INSTRUCTION IN SINGING

Practical methods of instruction in singing may be judged by their results fully as well as
by a scientific analysis of their basic principles. If the progress of the art of singing in
the past fifty years has been commensurate with the amount of study devoted to the operations
of the vocal mechanism, then the value of present methods is established. Otherwise the need
is proved for some reform in the present system of training voices. Judged by this standard
modern methods are not found to be satisfactory. There has been no progress in the art of singing;
exactly the contrary is the case. A prominent vocalist goes so far as to say that "vocal insufficiency
and decay are prevalent." (The Singing of the Future, D. Frangçon-Davies, M.A., 1906.) It is
perhaps an exaggeration of the condition to call it "insufficiency and decay." Yet a gradual
decline in the art of singing must be apparent to any lover of the art who has listened to
most of the famous singers of the past twenty or twenty-five years. Operatic performance has
been improved in every other respect, but pure singing, the perfection of the vocal art, has
become almost a rarity. This is true not only of coloratura singing; it applies with almost
equal force to the use of the singing voice for the purpose of dramatic and emotional expression.

Musical critics are beginning to comment on the decline of singing. They seek naturally for
the causes of this decline. Many influences are cited by different writers, each of which has
undoubtedly contributed something toward lowering the present standard of singing. Most influential
among these contributing causes, in the general opinion, is the dramatic style of singing demanded
in Wagner's later operas. Yet several writers point out that the rôles of Tristan, Brunnhilde,
etc., are vastly more effective when well sung than when merely shouted or declaimed. A change
in the public taste is also spoken of. Audiences are said to be indifferent to the older operas,
written to suit the style of florid singing. But even this statement does not pass unchallenged.
A prominent critic asserts that "the world is still hungry" for florid singing. "It is altogether
likely," continues this writer, "that composers would begin to write florid works again if
they were assured of competent interpretation, for there is always a public eager for music
of this sort." This critic asserts that the decline of coloratura singing is due to the indifference
of the artists themselves to this style of singing.

Still another commentator ascribes the decline of pure singing in recent years to the rise
of a new school of dramatic interpretation among the younger operatic artists. "Nowadays it
is not the singing that counts. It is the interpretation; and the chances are there will be
more and more interpretation and less and less singing every year." Even this view has its
limitations. Faithful dramatic interpretation, and attention to all the details of make-up
and "business," are not in any way antagonistic to pure singing. One of the most potent means
of emotional expression is vocal tone color. But the skilful use of expressive tone quality
is possible only to a singer possessed of a perfect command of all the resources of the voice.
Many vocal shortcomings are forgiven in the singer of convincing interpretive power. This is
probably an important factor in influencing the younger generation of artists to devote so
much attention to interpretation.

More important than any of the reasons just given to account for the present state of the art
of singing, is the decline in the art of training voices. The prospects of an improvement in
the art of Voice Culture, imagined by the early investigators of the vocal mechanism, have
not been realized. Voice Culture has not progressed in the past sixty years. Exactly the contrary
has taken place. Before the introduction of mechanical methods every earnest vocal student
was sure of learning to use his voice properly, and of developing the full measure of his natural
endowments. Mechanical instruction has upset all this. Nowadays the successful vocal student
is the exception. Even those students who succeed in acquiring sufficient command of their
voices to win public acceptance are unable to master the finest points of vocal technique.

Perfect singing is becoming rare, mainly because the technical mastery of the voice cannot
be acquired under modern methods of instruction. These methods have been found unsatisfactory
in every way. A change must be made in the practices of Voice Culture; its present state cannot
be regarded as permanent. Modern methods are not truly scientific. There is at present no justification
for the belief that the art of Voice Culture is founded an assured scientific principles. This
does not by any means invalidate the idea that Voice Culture is properly a subject for scientific
regulation. Modern methods are unsatisfactory only because they do not conform to the fundamental
laws of science. In order to erect a satisfactory art of Voice Culture it is necessary only
that the art be brought into conformity with scientific principles.

No sweeping reform of modern methods is called for. A thorough application of scientific principles
in the training of voices demands only one thing,--the abandonment of the idea of mechanical
vocal management. This is not a backward step; on the contrary, it means a distinct advance.
Once freed from the burden of the mechanical idea, the art of Voice Culture will be in position
to advance, even beyond the ideals of the old masters.

Nothing could well be simpler than the dropping of the mechanical idea. It was pointed out
in the review of modern methods that most of the time spent in giving and taking lessons is
devoted to actual singing by the student. This is exactly what rational instruction means.
Were it not for the evil influence of the mechanical idea, the results of present instruction
would in most cases be satisfactory. It is only in consequence of the attention paid to the
mechanical workings of the vocal organs that throat stiffness is interposed between the ear
and the voice. Let the mechanical idea be dropped, and instruction may be carried on exactly
as at present. There will be only one marked difference,--throat stiffness will cease to be
a source of difficulty.

It is for the individual teacher to change his own practices. This could be done so easily
that students would hardly note a change in the form of instruction. Simply call the pupil's
attention always to the quality of the tones, and never to the throat. Cease to talk of breathing
and of laryngeal action, and these subjects will never suggest themselves to the student's
mind. Continue to have the student sing vocalises, scales, songs, and arias, just as at present.
Teach the student to listen closely to his own voice, and familiarize him with correct models
of singing. This covers the whole ground of rational Voice Culture.

It is a great mistake to suppose that a vocal student comes to the teacher with a definite
idea of the need of direct vocal management. Several months of study are required before the
student begins to grasp the teacher's idea of mechanical management of the voice. Even then
the student rarely comes to a clear understanding of the mechanical idea. In the great majority
of cases the student never gets beyond the vague notion that he must "do something" to bring
the tones. Yet this vague idea is enough to keep his attention constantly directed to his vocal
organs, and so to hamper their normal activity. So soon as a teacher drops the mechanical idea,
his pupils will not think of their throats, nor demand mechanical instruction. There will be
no need of his cautioning his pupils not to pay attention to the muscular workings of the vocal
organs. No vocal student ever would do this were the practice not demanded in modern methods.

At first thought it may seem that for a teacher to drop all mechanical instruction would leave
a great gap in his method. How is the correct vocal action to be imparted to the pupil if not
by direct instruction to this end? This question has already been answered in preceding chapters,
but the answer may well be repeated. The correct vocal action is naturally and instinctively
adopted by the voice without any attention being paid to the operations of the vocal mechanism.
It is necessary only that the student sing his daily exercises and listen to his voice. The
voice's own instinct will lead it gradually to the perfect action. Nothing need be substituted
for mechanical instruction. Present methods of Voice Culture will be in every way complete,
they will leave nothing to be desired, when the mechanical idea is abandoned. This change in
the character of vocal instruction will not be in any sense a return to empiricism. It will
be a distinct advance in the application of scientific principles.

When fully understood, a practical science of Voice Culture is seen to embrace only three topics,--the
musical education of the student, the training of the ear, and the acquirement of skill in
the use of the voice. The avoidance of throat stiffness is not properly a separate topic of
Vocal Science, as in rational instruction nothing should ever be done to cause the throat to
stiffen. Let us consider in detail these three topics of practical Vocal Science.

The Musical Education of a Singer

Every singer should be a well-educated and accomplished musician. This does not mean that the
singer must be a capable performer on the piano or violin; yet some facility in playing the
piano is of enormous benefit to the singer. A general understanding of the art of music is
not necessarily dependent on the ability to play any instrument. The rudiments of music may
quite well be mastered through the study of sight singing. This was the course adopted by the
old masters, and it will serve equally well in our day.

One of the evil results of the introduction of the mechanical idea in Voice Culture is that
almost the entire lesson time is devoted to the matter of tone-production. To the rudiments
of music no attention whatever is usually paid. Many vocal students realize the need of a general
musical training, and seek it through studying the piano and through choir and chorus singing.
But the vocal teacher seldom finds time to teach his pupils to read music at sight. This is
a serious mistake. The artistic use of the voice is dependent on the possession of a trained
ear and a cultured musical taste. Ear training and musical culture are greatly facilitated
by a knowledge of the technical basis of the art of music. This latter is best acquired, by
the vocal student at any rate, through the study of sight reading.

Sight singing and the rudiments of music are taught to better advantage in class work than
in private individual instruction. The class system also secures a great saving of time to
the teacher. Every teacher should form a little class in sight reading and choral singing,
made up of all his pupils. An hour or an hour and a half each week, devoted by the entire class
to the study of sight singing and simple part songs and choruses, would give an ample training
to all the pupils in this important branch of the art of music.

Many vocal teachers advise their pupils not to sing in choirs and choruses. There may be some
ground for the belief that students are apt to fall into bad vocal habits while singing in
the chorus. But this risk is entirely avoided by the teacher having his pupils sing in his
own chorus, under his own direction.

Another important feature of the musical education is the hearing of good music artistically
performed. Vocal students should be urged to attend the opera and the orchestral concerts.
They should become familiar with the different forms of composition by actually hearing the
masterpieces of music. Chamber music concerts, song recitals, and oratoric performances,--all
are of great advantage to the earnest student. When students attend the opera, or hear the
great singers in concerts and recitals, they should listen to the singers' tones, and not wonder
how the tones are produced.

Ear Training

No special exercises can be given for the training of the ear. The sense of hearing is developed
only by attentive listening. Every vocal student should be urged, and frequently reminded,
to form the habit of listening attentively to the tones of all voices and instruments. A highly
trained sense of hearing is one of the musician's most valuable gifts. A naturally keen musical
ear is of course presupposed in the case of any one desiring to study music. This natural gift
must be developed by exercise in the ear's proper function,--listening to sounds.

Experience in listening to voices is made doubly effective in the training of the ear when
the student's attention is called to the salient characteristics of the tones heard. In this
regard the two points most important for the student to notice are the intonation and the tone
quality.

Absolute correctness of intonation, whether in the voice or in an instrument, can be appreciated
only by the possessor of a highly cultivated sense of hearing. Many tones are accepted as being
in tune which are heard by a very keen ear to be slightly off the pitch, or untrue to the pitch.
This matter of a tone being untrue to the pitch is of great importance to the student of music.
Many instruments, when unskilfully played, give out tones of this character. The tones are
impure; instead of containing only one pitch, each note shades off into pitches a trifle higher,
or lower, or both. This faulty type of tone is illustrated by a piano slightly out of tune.
On a single note of this piano one string may have remained in perfect tune, the second may
have flatted by the merest fraction of a semitone, and the third by a slightly greater interval.
When this note is played it is in one sense not out of tune. Yet its pitch is untrue, and it
shades off into a slightly flat note. In the case of many instruments, notably the flute, the
clarinet, and the French horn, unskilled performers often play notes of this character. But
in these instruments the composite character of the note is vastly more complex than in the
piano. A very keen ear is required to appreciate fully the nature of this untrueness to the
pitch. But this is exactly the kind of ear the singer must possess, and it can be acquired
only by the experience of attentive listening.

The voice is especially liable to produce tones untrue to the pitch. Stiff-throated singers
almost invariably exhibit this faulty tendency. An excessive tension of the throat hampers
the vocal cords in their adjustments, and the result is an impure tone. This is more often
the cause of an artist singing out of tune than a deficiency of the sense of hearing. Many
singers "sharp" or "flat" habitually, and are unable to overcome the habit, even though well
aware of it. Only a voice entirely free from stiffness can produce tones of absolute correctness
and perfect intonation. Du Maurier hit upon a very apt description of pure intonation when
he said that Trilby always sang "right into the middle of the note." As an impurity of intonation
is almost always an indication of throat tension, vocal teachers should be keenly sensitive
to this type of faulty tone.

Tone quality is a subject of surpassing interest to the musician. Whatever may be thought the
true purpose of music, there can be no question as to one demand made on each individual instrument,--it
must produce tones of sensuous beauty. A composer may delight in dissonances; but no instrument
of the orchestra may produce harsh or discordant tones. Of beauty of tone the ear is the sole
judge; naturally so, for the only appeal of the individual tone is to the ear. Melody, rhythm,
and harmony may appeal to the intellect, but the quality of each component tone is judged only
by the ear.

Each instrument has its own characteristic tone quality. The student of singing should become
familiar with the sounds of the different orchestral instruments. Attention to this is extremely
valuable in the training of the ear.

Beauty of tone was seen to be the truest and best indication of the correct vocal action. The
voice has its own tonal beauty, entirely different in character from any artificial instrument.
Students of singing should listen for every fine shade of tone quality in the voices of other
singers. They should learn to detect the slightest blemish on the quality of every tone, the
slightest deviation from the correct pitch.

As the voice is guided by the ear, the first requirement of a singer is a keen sense of hearing.
For a keen ear to be of benefit, the student must learn to listen to his own voice. This is
not altogether an easy matter. For one to learn to hear oneself justly and correctly requires
considerable practice. The singer is placed at a natural disadvantage in listening to himself.
This is due to two causes. In the first place, the direct muscular sensations of singing are
so complex, and so distributed about the throat and face, that the singer's attention is apt
to be divided between these and his auditory sensations. Second, the sound waves are conducted
to the ear internally, by the vibration of the bones of the head, as well as externally, by
the air waves. The internally conveyed vibrations are a rumbling rather than a true sound;
the only true tone is the external sound, heard by the singer in the same way as by a listener.
Yet the attention is more apt to be taken up with the internal rumbling than with the external
tone. Every vocal student must be taught to listen to himself, to disregard the muscular sensations
and the internal rumbling, and to pay attention only to the real tones of his voice.

Throat stiffness greatly increases the difficulty of listening to oneself. Both the muscular
sensations and the internal rumbling are heightened by the increased muscular tension. A stiff-throated
singer confounds the muscular with the auditory sensations; the feeling of muscular effort
also makes him believe his tones to be much more powerful than they really are.

The Acquirement of Skill

Skill in the use of the voice is acquired solely by practice in singing. Only one rule is required
for the conduct of vocal practice, that is, that the voice thrives on beautiful sounds. Musical
taste must always guide the vocal student in practising. The voice cannot well do more than
is demanded by the ear. If a student is unable to distinguish a correct intonation, his voice
will not intone correctly. A student must hear and recognize his own faults or there is no
possibility of his correcting them. He must be familiar with the characteristics of a perfect
musical tone in order to demand this tone of his voice.

In the student's progress the ear always keeps slightly in advance of the voice. Both develop
together, but the ear takes the lead. The voice needs practice to enable it to meet the demands
of the ear. As this practice goes on day by day the ear in the meantime becomes keener and
still more exacting in its demands on the voice.

To train a voice is in reality a very simple matter. Nothing is required of the student but
straightforward singing. Provided the student's daily practice of singing be guided by a naturally
keen ear and a sound musical taste, the voice will steadily progress. Little need be said here
about the technical demands made on the voice in modern music. The standards of vocal technique
are well known to all vocal teachers, and indeed to musicians generally. Further, the scope
of this work is limited to the basic principle of vocal technique,--correct tone-production.

For starting the voice properly on the road to the perfect action, intelligently guided practice
alone is needed. This practice must be carried on under the direction of a competent teacher.
But the teacher cannot pay attention solely to the technical training of the student's voice.
As has been seen, the training of the voice is impossible without the cultivation of the sense
of hearing; and this is dependent in great measure on the general musical education of the
student. The teacher must therefore direct the student's musical education as the basic principle
of Voice Culture.

The Avoidance of Throat Stiffness

A great advance will be brought about in the profession of Voice Culture when vocal teachers
become thoroughly familiar with the subject of throat stiffness. This is the only troublesome
feature of the training of voices. Teachers must be always on the alert to note every indication
of throat stiffness. The correction of faults of production has always been recognized as one
of the most important elements of vocal training. Faults of production are of two kinds, natural
and acquired. Natural faults are exhibited in some degree by every vocal student. These are
due solely to the lack of facility in the use of the voice and to the beginner's want of experience
in hearing his own voice. Acquired faults develop only as the result of unnatural throat tension.
The most common cause of acquired faults of tone-production was seen in the attempt consciously
to direct the mechanical operations of the voice.

Equipped with a thorough understanding of the subject of throat stiffness, the teacher is in
no danger of permitting his pupils to contract faulty habits of tone-production. Here the great
value of the empirical knowledge of the voice is seen. The slightest trace of incipient throat
stiffness must be immediately detected by the teacher in the sound of the pupil's tones. To
correct the faulty tendency in the beginning is comparatively simple. By listening closely
to every tone sung by his pupils in the course of instruction, noting both the musical character
of the tones and the sympathetic sensations of throat action, the master will never be in doubt
whether a tendency to throat stiffness is shown. In locating the natural faults of production
the teacher will also find his empirical knowledge of the voice a most valuable possession.

CHAPTER IX

OUTLINES OF A PRACTICAL METHOD OF VOICE CULTURE

According to the accepted idea of Voice Culture, the word "method" is taken to mean only the
plan supposedly followed for imparting a correct manner of tone-production. Owing to the prevalence
of the mechanical idea, the acquirement of the correct vocal action has become so difficult
as to demand almost the exclusive attention of both teachers and students. Very little time
is left for other subjects of vastly more importance. Aside from the matter of tone-production,
teachers do not seem to realize the importance, or even the possibility, of systematizing a
course of instruction in singing.

Scientific Voice Culture is inconceivable without a systematic plan of procedure. But this
is not dependent on a set of rules for imparting the correct vocal action. Eliminating the
idea of mechanical vocal management does not imply the abandonment of methodical instruction
in singing. On the contrary, Voice Culture cannot be made truly systematic so long as it is
based on an erroneous and unscientific theory of vocal management. A vocal teacher cannot perfect
a system of instruction until he has done with the mechanical idea. Then he will find himself
to be in possession of all the materials of a sound practical method.

Most important of the materials of a practical method is a comprehensive repertoire of vocal
music. Every teacher should have at his command a wide range of compositions in every form
available for the voice. This should include simple exercises, vocalises with and without words,
songs of every description, arias of the lyric, dramatic, and coloratura type, and recitatives,
as well as concerted numbers of every description. All these compositions should be graded,
according to the difficulties they present, both technical in the vocal sense, and musical.
For every stage of a pupil's progress the teacher should know exactly what composition to assign
for study.

Every composition used in instruction, be it simple exercise or elaborate aria, should be first
of all melodious. For the normally gifted student the sense of melody and the love of singing
are almost synonymous. Next to the physical endowments of voice and ear the sense of melody
is the vocal student's most important gift. This feeling for melody should be appealed to at
every instant. Students should not be permitted to sing anything in a mechanical fashion. Broken
scales, "five finger exercises," and mechanical drills of every kind, are altogether objectionable.
They blunt the sense of melody, and at the same time they tend to induce throat stiffness.
Beauty of tone and of melody should always be the guiding principle in the practice of singing.

All the elements of instruction,--musical education, ear training, and the acquirement of facility
in the use of the voice,--can be combined in the singing of melodious compositions. While the
teacher should know the precise object of each study, this is not necessary for the student.
Have the pupil simply sing his daily studies, with good tone and true musical feeling, and
all the rest will take care of itself.

Every vocal teacher will formulate his method of instruction according to his own taste and
judgment. There will always be room for the exercise of originality, and for the working out
of individual ideas. His own experience, and his judgment in each individual case, must guide
the teacher in answering many important questions. Whether to train a voice up or down, whether
to pay special attention to enunciation, when to introduce the trill, what form of studies
to use for technique and ornament,--these are all matters for the teacher to decide in his own way.

Above all else the teacher should seek to make the study of singing interesting to his pupils.
This cannot be done by making the idea of method and of mechanical drudgery prominent. Singing
is an art; both teacher and student must love their art or they cannot succeed. Everything
the student is called on to do should be a distinct pleasure. To master the piano or the violin
many hours of tedious practice are required. Students of singing are indeed fortunate to be
spared the necessity of this tiresome work. In place of two or three hours' daily practice
of scales and exercises, the vocal student need do nothing but sing good music.

Much is required of a competent vocal teacher. First of all, he must be a cultured musician
and a capable judge both of composition and of performance. Further, while not necessarily
a great singer, he must have a thorough command of all the resources of his own voice. His
understanding of the voice should embrace a fair knowledge of vocal physiology and of vocal
psychology. His ear should be so highly trained, and his experience in hearing singers so wide,
that he possess in full the empirical knowledge of the voice. The vocal teacher must be familiar
with the highest standards of singing. He should hear the great artists of his day and also
be well versed in the traditions of his art.

A highly important gift of the vocal teacher is tact. He must know how to deal with his pupils,
how to smooth over the rough places of temperament. He should be able to foster a spirit of
comradeship among his pupils, to secure the stimulating effect of rivalry, while avoiding the
evils of jealousy. Tact is an important element also in individual instruction. Some students
will demand to know the reason of everything, others will be content to do as they are told
without question. One student may be led to stiffen his throat by instruction which would have
no such effect on another. In every case the teacher must study the individual temperaments
of his pupils and adapt his method to the character of each student.

Practical instruction, in its outward aspect, should be very simple. At one lesson the teacher
assigns certain studies and has the pupil sing them. Now and then the teacher sings a few measures
in order to give the student the correct idea of the effects to be obtained. If any pronounced
fault is shown in the student's tones, the master calls attention to the fault, perhaps imitating
it, to make it more apparent to the student. In his home practice the student sings the assigned
studies, trying always to get his tones pure and true. At the next lesson the same studies
are again sung, and new compositions given for further study.

A great advantage might be gained by combining three, four, or five students in a class and
giving lessons of an hour's time, or even an hour and a half. The students might sing in turn,
all the others listening to the one who is singing. This form of instruction would be of great
service in ear training, and in acquainting the students with the various qualities of vocal
tone, both correct and faulty. Much time would thus be saved in giving explanations and in
pointing out the characteristics of tone to be sought or avoided. On the side of musical education,
instruction in small classes would also be found very effective.

A thorough understanding of Vocal Science, including both the mechanical features of tone-production
and the psychological aspects of singing, is almost indispensable to the vocal teacher. But
the student of singing will in most cases derive no benefit from this scientific knowledge.
Those students who plan to become teachers must of course study Vocal Science. Yet even these
students will do well to defer this study until they have acquired a thorough mastery of their
voices.

* * *

Musical progress would seem to have taken a peculiar direction when a voice need be raised
in defense of the old art of pure singing. Several famous writers on musical subjects would
have us believe that the love of vocal melody is outgrown by one who reaches the heights of
musical development. This may be true; but if so, the world has not yet progressed so far.
Music without melody may some day be written. But Mozart knew naught of it, nor Beethoven,
nor Wagner. Melody is still beautiful, and never more lovely than when artistically sung by
a beautiful voice. We have not reached a point where we can afford to toss lightly aside the
old art of Bel Canto.

For its future development, if not indeed for its continued existence, the art of singing depends
on an improvement in the art of training voices. For this to be accomplished, mechanical methods
must be abandoned. If this work succeeds in bringing home to the vocal profession the error
of mechanical instruction in singing, it will have served its purpose.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Pietro Francesco Tosi: Observations on the Florid Song. Bologna, 1723.

Giovanni Battista Mancini: Riflessioni pratiche sul Canto figurato. Milan, 1776.

Georg Joseph Vogler: Stimmbildungskunst. Mannheim, 1776.

Méthode de Chant du Conservatoire de Musique. Paris, 1803.

Adolph Bernhard Marx: Die Kunst des Gesanges. Berlin, 1826.

Heinrich F. Mannstein: Die grosse italienische Gesangschule. Dresden, 1834.

Manuel Garcia: École de Garcia. The Ninth Edition (Paris, 1893) gives date of first edition,
1856. Grove's Dict. gives 1847.

Proceedings of the Royal Soc., London, Vol. 2, May, 1855.

Hints on Singing. (Trans. by Beata Garcia). New York, 1894.

Ferdinand Sieber: Vollstaendiges Lehrbuch der Gesangskunst. Magdeburg, 1858.

The Art of Singing. (Trans. by Dr. F. Seeger). New York, 1872.

Stéphen de la Madelaine: Théorie complète du Chant. Paris, 1852.

John Howard: The Physiology of Artistic Singing. New York, 1886.

Emma Seiler: The Voice in Singing. Philadelphia, 1886.

J. Frank Botume: Modern Singing Methods. Boston, 1885.

Francesco Lamperti: A Treatise on the Art of Singing. (Trans. by J. C. Griffith). New York.
Original about 1876.

Wesley Mills, M. D.: Voice Production in Singing and Speaking. Philadelphia, 1906.

Dr. W. Reinecke: Die Kunst der idealen Tonbildung. Leipzig, 1906.

William Shakespeare: The Art of Singing. London, 1898.

G. B. Lamperti: The Technics of Bel Canto. New York, 1905.

Paolo Guetta: Il Canto nel suo Mecanismo. Milan, 1902.

Lilli Lehmann: Meine Gesangskunst. Berlin, 1902.

David Frangçon-Davies: The Singing of the Future. London, 1906.

Leo Kofler: The Old Italian Method. Albany, 1880.

The Art of Breathing. New York, 1889.

Clara Kathleen Rogers: The Philosophy of Singing. New York, 1893.

Albert B. Bach: The Principles of Singing. London (2d ed.), 1897.

Julius Stockhausen's Gesangsmethode. Leipzig, 1884.

Sir Morell Mackenzie: The Hygiene of the Vocal Organs. London, 1886.

Charles Lunn: The Philosophy of the Voice. London, 1878. Paris, 1741.

Sir Charles Bell: On the Organs of the Human Voice. London, 1832.

Carl Ludwig Merkel: Der Kehlkopf. Leipzig, 1873.

Dr. L. Mandl: Die Gesundheitslehre der Stimme. Braunschweig, 1876.

George F. Ladd: Outlines of Physiological Psychology. New York, 1892.

James M. Baldwin: Feeling and Will. New York, 1894.

H. S. Curtis: "Automatic Movements of the Larynx," Amer. Jour. Psych., Vol. 11, p. 237. 1900.

H. L. F. Helmholtz: Die Lehre von den Tonempfindungen. Braunschweig, 1862.

E. W. Scripture: The New Psychology, London, 1897.

The Elements of Experimental Phonetics. New York, 1902.

The Study of Speech Curves. Washington, 1906.

William James: The Principles of Psychology. New York, 1890.

Hansen and Lehmann: "Ueber unwillkuerliches Fluestern," Philo. Stud., Vol. 11, p. 471. 1895.

C. Lloyd Morgan: An Introduction to Comparative Psychology. 1894.

Wilhelm Wundt: Grundzuege der physiologischen Psychologie. Leipzig, 1874.

Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians.

Fétis: Biographie universelle des Musiciens.

Musikalisches Conversations-Lexikon.

Quellen Lexikon der Musiker. (Robt. Eitner, Leipzig, 1902.)

INDEX

Acoustics of voice, 188, 216.

Anatomy of vocal organs, 211.

Attack, 51, 53.

Breathing, 20, 130.

Breath, singing on the, 14, 27, 32, 72, 194.

Candle-flame test, 221.

Coloratura, 195, 282.

Decline of singing, 341.

Ear training, 276, 281, 319, 351.

Emission, 68, 125, 188.

Empirical knowledge, 151, 176, 181, 359.
  basis of, 155.
  in modern instruction, 75, 199, 207.
  in traditional precepts, 184.

Enunciation, 88.

Exercises
  for breath-control, 26, 31.
  for breathing, 22.
  for muscular movements, 46, 50.
  for relaxing muscles, 90, 272.
  on vowels and consonants, 85.

Forward tone, 14, 68, 71, 125, 187.

Garcia, 16, 22, 34, 35, 56, 328.

Glottic stroke, 30, 52.

History of voice culture, 8, 322.

Howard, John, 43.

Imitation, 134, 166, 291, 298, 307, 309, 324, 332.

Intonation, 265, 311, 314, 352.

Laryngeal action, 34, 36, 44.

Laryngoscope, 16, 35, 56, 214, 215, 258, 336.

Lessons, 103, 366.

Local effort, 273.

Mancini, 12, 156, 307, 314, 323.

Mask, singing in the, 74, 81.

Mechanical vocal management, 83, 102, 109, 113, 135, 271,
  287, 297, 299, 321, 329, 333, 346.

Mechanics of voice, 118, 220, 325, 335.

Mental voice, 180, 183.

Messa di voce, 40, 312.

Method, 92, 96, 99.
  Old Italian, 10, 304, 316, 320.

Méthode de Chant, 326.

Muscular sense, 143, 170.
  stiffness, 240, 251.
  strain, 267.

Nasal tone, 62, 129, 205.

Nervousness, 249, 256.

Old Italian masters, 9, 11, 14, 54, 306, 320.
  method, 10, 304, 316, 320.

Open throat, 14, 60, 86, 191.

Placing the voice, 38, 41, 93, 310.

Practice, 5, 105, 281, 366.

Precepts, 13, 72, 76, 184, 186, 317.

Problem of voice, 4, 7, 287, 324, 337, 338.

Psychology of muscular guidance, 136, 227.
  of sympathetic sensations, 165.
  of vocal management, 144, 229, 297.

Pure vowel theory, 88.

Quality of tone, 40, 62, 156, 179, 182, 314, 346.

Radiation of nerve impulse, 251, 259.

Reflex actions, 247, 255.

Registers, 34, 38, 55, 312, 315.

Relaxing exercises, 90, 272.

Resonance, 54, 58.
  chest, 61, 127.
  mouth-pharynx, 59.
  nasal, 62, 87, 127, 204.
  sounding-board, 44, 65.

Sensations of singing, 160.
  direct, 161, 173.
  in modern instruction, 78, 84, 114.
  muscular, 78.
  sympathetic, 161, 162, 176.
  of vibration, 54, 55, 58, 80.

Sight reading, 309, 310, 313.

Singing in the mask, 74, 81.
  on the breath, 14, 27, 32, 72, 194.

Sol-fa, 310, 314.

Stiffness, muscular, 240, 251.
  throat, 89, 243, 260, 262, 285, 356, 358.

Support of tone, 14, 27, 32, 73, 192.

Sympathetic sensations, 161, 162, 165, 176.

Technique, 6, 94, 282.

Throat stiffness, 89, 243, 260, 262, 285, 356, 358.

Tone-production, 4.
  problem of 7, 287, 324, 337, 338.

Tosi, 12, 55, 63, 156, 307, 308, 322.

Traditional precepts, 13, 14, 76, 186, 317.
  empirical basis, 184.
  in modern instruction, 72, 77.

Tremolo, 265, 272.

Vocal action, 5, 17, 92, 112, 246.

Vocal Science, 17, 19, 37, 98, 152, 339, 361, 367.

Wearing voice into place, 101.