"Zen long time my fader come to ze door, and vile he come, he say loud ze vicked vords, and
my moder know dot he have drunk ze beer. Quick ce go to ze vindow, and ven ce see him, ce cry
and ce bees afraid, and ce not open ze door. Zen my fader tink he have not fine ze door, and
he go vay roun ze house, and tink he have fine ze door dare; and he strike, and he pound, and
all ze time he say loud ze vicked vords. Zen he come back to ze door, and he strike it mit
hees feets much times, and ven ze door come open and he see my moder dare, he strike her dot
ce fall on ze floor mit ze baby. Ze baby cry, but my moder ce not speak, and ce not cry. Zen
my fader strike her much times mit hees feets, dot ce not open ze door, and he go vay to get
ze big knife, and he say dot he vill kill her. Long time he not fine it; zen vile he come back
he not see, and he fall on ze floor, and some ze vay he get up and some ze vay he not get up,
and all ze time he say dot he vill kill, he vill, he vill! But all ze time he not kill, he
have not ze knife; and he have drunk too much ze beer, dot he not get up. Zen long time hees
head go down on ze floor, and he sleep, and he make big noise mit hees nose.

"Zen I come out ze leetle bed, and I go on ze floor, and ven I come vare my moder be, I sake
her and I sake her, but ce not speak. Zen I come to ze bed vare Jeem be, and I sake him, and
I tell him dot my fader have kill my moder. Quick Jeem come dare, and he lif her up; and Fred
come out ze bed, and he get ze baby; and Jeem put ze vater on my moder, and he sake her much
times, and ce vake, and ce sit up in ze chair mit ze baby. And ce tell Jeem dot he get ze blanket
fon ze bed and he put it on my fader, and he lif hees head, and he put under ze pillow.

"Jeem and Fred zey go in ze bed, and I go in ze leetle bed, but all ze time my moder ce sit
up dare in ze chair, mit ze baby, to ze fire, and ce cry and ce cry."

IV.

"In ze morning my moder tell my fader dot ce vill go back to Italy, mit her moder; and my fader
say dot ce may, but ce not go.

"Ze peoples come, but my fader bees not dare, and he not make zem any more mit ze brush, but
some my moder make.

"All ze time my fader go vay, and he drink ze beer mit ze bad men; and ze fire he not get,
and he not get ze bread, and too much he strike.

"Von time my moder tell my fader dot ce vill come in ze America, and ce vill make ze peoples
dare mit ze brush, and ce vill get ze money, and ce vill live; and my fader say dot ce may.
Zen my moder say dot ce vill take ze boys mit her; and my fader say No, he keep ze boys mit
him. My moder say No, ce take ze boys mit her; and my fader say No, he keep ze boys mit him.
Zen my moder say ce vill take ze baby and her little blind boy mit her, and ce vill come in
ze America; and my fader say dot ce may.

"Zen my moder sell ze ring fon her fing-er, and some ze money ce get, and some ze money my
granfader give her. Zen ce make me mit ze brush. I sit up in ze chair, and ce look at me, and
ce make me all roun mit ze flowers. Ce make my curls go roun her fing-er, and zen ce make zem
mit ze brush in ze pic-sure, and ce make me mit vings; and ce make in my hand vot ze boys shoot
mit,--not ze gun vot make ze big noise and vot kill, but ze bow mit ze tring, I not know vot
you call it."

"The bow and arrow, Jakey."

"Yes, dot bees it, ze bow and ze arrow; and von time Jeem have shoot Fred mit it in hees back,
and he cry, and he come and he tell my moder dot Jeem have kill him.

"Ven I bees done, ven my moder have make me, von lady ce come dare and ce tell my moder, Vot
ce make? and my moder tell her dot ce make me mit ze brush, and ce vill sell me, and ce vill
get ze money, and ce vill come in ze America. Zen von oder day ze lady come dare, and ce give
my moder much ze money, and ce take ze pic-sure avay mit her; and ven ce have go mit it, my
moder ce cry and ce cry.

"Von day my granfader come dare mit ze carriage, and Jeem he go in ze carriage, and Fred he
go in, and my moder ce come in mit ze baby. My granfader bring me, and he come in, and ze carriage
come vay down to ze--I not know vot you call it, but it bees von big house on ze vater."

"A ship, Jakey."

"Yes, ze ship, mit ze trees vay high, and on ze trees, Fred say, long tings go vay out like
ze sheet; and ze vinds blow in zem, and ze ship ce go and ce go. My moder ce come in ze ship
mit ze baby in von arm, and my granfader bring me, and Jeem and Fred bees dare; and my granfader
say zey vill go, dot ze ship not come avay mit zem. Zen my moder ce kiss Jeem and ce kiss Fred,
von time and von time, and ce cry and ce cry; and ce tell zem dot zey vill be good, and ven
ce get ze money, ce vill send it, and zey vill come in ze America mit her. Jeem say dot ven
he bees a man, he vill come in ze America; and Fred say dot he vill come in ze America ven
he bees not a man,--ven he get ze money he come, and he vill get it.

"My moder ce kiss zem much times, and ce cry too hard dot ce leave zem. And ce tell my granfader
dot he vill not give my fader ze beer? and my granfader say, No, he not give him, but he vill
get it; and my granfader cry ven be say dot. And my moder tell him dot ven my fader have not
ze money, he vill keep him in ze house mit him? and my granfader say dot he vill, and he vill
keep Jeem and he vill keep Fred mit him, and he vill make zem go in ze school. Zen my moder
tank my granfader much times, and ce kiss him, and ce kiss Jeem, and ce kiss Fred; and zey
kiss me, and zey kiss ze baby, and zey kiss my moder; and zey cry and zey go avay, and my moder
ce scream and ce cry. Zen my granfader leave Jeem and Fred, and he come back, and he tell my
moder dot ce not cry; much vords he tell her. Zen he go avay, and ze vinds blow, and ze ship
ce go and ce go.

"Long time ze ship go, much days and much nights. And von time ze vinds blow too hard, and
ze ship go von vay and von vay, and ze vaters come vay high, and ze vinds make big noise, and
it tunder, like ze sky break; and von ze trees have come crash down on ze ship, and all ze
peoples cry, Gott im Himmel! Gott im Himmel! and all ze time zey cry, and zey tink dot zey
go vay down in ze deep. My moder ce be kneeled down, mit ze baby in von arm and mit me in von
arm, and ce not cry, but all ze time ce pray and ce pray; and vile ce pray, ze ship come crash
on ze rock, and much ze peoples go vay down in ze vater, and too much zey cry, too loud. Zen
my moder have tie ze baby mit her shawl, and me ce hold mit von arm, and mit von arm ce hold
on ze ship. Von time ze vater, ven it come vay high, take me avay, and my moder have loss me,
and too loud ce scream, and von man dare he get me fon ze vater mit my hair, and long time
he hold me mit his arm.

"Ven it bees morning, and ze vater not come vay high, and ze vinds not blow, von oder ship
come dare vot have not ze sail, but ce have von big fire, and all ze time ce go, burrh! burrh!
and all ze peoples vot have not go vay down mit ze fishes come in dot ship, and zey get ze
bread dare, and zey get ze meat dare, and much tings zey get dare.

"Long time zey go in dot ship, and ven zey see ze America, zey come in von oder leetle ship
vot have no tree, vot have no sail, and vot have no fire, but ze men have ze long sticks, and
zey go so, and zey go so" (imitating men rowing, with his little hands).

"How did you know that, Jakey; you could not see them?" Not ce feel bad dot ce come in ze America,
but ce bees too glad dot ce have not go vay down in ze deep mit ze fishes, and ze baby and
me mit her dare, vare von big fish be, vot eat ze peoples."

"Were you not afraid. Jakey?"

"No, I not cry. My moder ce be dare, and ce hold me tight, and I tink Gott hear my moder vot
ce pray."

V.

"Where did your mother go, Jakey, when she first came into this country? where did she stop?"

"I not know ze place vare," he said, "but ce go mit ze peoples in von big house, up ze steps
vay high and ce stay dare. And ven ze bells ring, and von Sunday have come, ze baby, ce be
dead. I not know zen vot dead mean. I not know ce bees cold; and too quick I take my hand avay,
and I tell my moder dot ce bring ze baby to ze fire. My moder say, No, ze fire not varm her,
ce bees dead, and ze man vill come and put her avay in ze ground; and my moder ce cry and ce
cry. And vile ce cry, ze man come mit ze box, and he pull ze baby fon my moder, and quick he
put her in ze box; and ven he make ze nail drive, my moder cry like ce die.

"My moder ce stay dare in ze big house, and von day ce go to fine ze peoples vot ce vill make
mit ze brush, and von oder day ce go to fine ze peoples, and von oder day ce go. Zen von day
ce go to fine ze place vare ce vill live; and ven ce come back, ce say dot ce have fine it,
and in ze morning ce vill go dare mit me. But in ze night, all ze time ce talk, and ce not
know vare ce be. Some ze time ce tink ce bees in Germany mit my fader, and ce tink he have
drunk ze beer, and he vill kill her. Some ze time ce tink ce bees in Italy mit her moder, and
ce have not run avay mit my fader. And some ze time ce tink ce bees in ze ship, and ze vinds
blow too hard, and ze tree come crash down. Zen all ze time ce say Vater, vater, vater! but
ce have not ze vater, and ce bees hot, too hot. Ven ce touch me, I tink ce burn me, and ce
go up in ze bed, and ce pull ze blanket and ze tings, and all ze time ce say Vater, vater,
vater! And I cry dot I not fine ze vater. I scream, I fine ze door, but it not open. I call
ze voman, but ce not come; all ze day ce not come, all ze night ce not come; and all ze time
my moder ce burn, burn, and all ze time ce say Vater, vater, vater! I call her, but ce not
know vot I say; ce not see me; ce not know vare ce be; and ven I cry ce not hear me. All ze
time ce talk and ce talk.

"Zen dot morning ze man come dare, and ven he see my moder, he go quick avay; and von man come
mit someting vot he give my moder, and vot ce drink, and ven ce have drink it, ce sleep. Long
time ce sleep, and ven ce vake, ce know vare ce be, and ce know vot ce say. Zen ce put her
hand on my head, and ce kiss me,--much times ce kiss me; and ce say dot ce die, and ce go im
Himmel mit ze baby. Zen I cry; and ce tell me dot I not cry, dot Gott vill come von time, and
he vill bring me im Himmel mit her and mit ze baby. He vill, ce know he vill.

"Zen ce not talk, and I tink ce be sleep; and I sake her and I sake her, but ce not move. I
put my fing-er on her eyes, but zey not open; and I call her and I call her, but ce not hear;
and I kiss her and I kiss her, but ce not know it. I sake her, but ce not vake; and ven I feel
dot ce bees cold, I know dot ce bees dead, like ze baby, and I scream and I scream. I call
ze voman, I call ze man, but zey not come, zey not hear. Zen long time ze voman ce come, and
ven ce open ze door ce pull me avay quick fon my moder, and ce pull me up ze stair, von stair
and von stair. Zen ce push me in ze room, and ce lock ze door, and ce take ze key avay mit
her. Zen I push ze door and I scream, all ze time I scream. I say dot I vill go mit my moder,
I vill, I vill!"

VI.

"Long time, vile I cry dare, Meme come, and ce say von vord in ze keyhole. I not know vot ce
say, but I say dot I will go mit my moder, but ce not hear me. And ce say von oder time in
ze keyhole, Little boy, cause vy you cry? Zen I come dare, and I say in ze keyhole dot I shall
go mit my moder, dot ze voman have lock me up, and ce have take ze key avay mit her. Zen Meme
tell me dot I not cry, ce know vare ze key be, and ce vill get it. Zen quick ce run avay, and
ce come back mit ze key, and ce put ze key in ze keyhole, and ce go vay high on her feets,
and ce push and ce push, but ze door not open. Zen ce take ze key out, and Meme say von vord
in ze keyhole, and I say von vord in ze keyhole. No, I say, I not see. Zen ce say dot ce vill
come mit me vare my moder be, and ce take hold my hand, and ven ce have come down von stair,
and von step and von step, ze voman ce be dare; and ce tell Meme dot ce go back, dot ce vill
vip her. Zen Meme ce come up ze stair, and ce pull von vay and I pull von vay, and I say dot
I go mit my moder, I vill, I vill! and I cry. Zen Meme ce tell me dot I not cry, and ce say
low, dot ven ze voman have go avay, ce vill come back mit me. Zen I not cry, and I go up ze
steps mit Meme; and ven I not hear ze voman, and Meme not see her, ce come back mit me; von
step and von step ce pull me, all ze steps quick down ce pull me, and ven ce come on ze floor,
quick ce come to ze door vare my moder be, and ce make it go open; and ven ce see my moder
dare, ce cry. But I not cry; I go to ze bed, vare ce be, and ven I feel her mit my hands, I
tell Meme dot ce be not my moder, ce have not ze curls; and Meme say dot ze voman have cut
zem; dot ce have cut ze curls fon her moder, ven ce vas dead, and ce have sell zem, and ce
get ze money.

"Zen ze man come mit ze box, and he push Meme, dot ce go avay; and Meme ce pull me, but I say
dot I not come, dot I stay mit my moder. Zen ze man push me, and he sut ze door, and I scream,
I scream! Zen Meme tell me dot I not cry, dot ze voman vill hear, and ce vill come and ce vill
vip her. Zen I not cry too loud, and I come mit Meme up ze stair; and ven ce come to ze room,
ce go avay, and ce bring me von cake in von hand, and von opple in von hand; and ce kiss me,
and ce tell me dot ce love me; and ce say dot her moder have die, and ze voman have got ze
gold fon her moder, and ze vatch, and ze locket, mit ze chain, vot have her fader and her moder
in it, and all ze tings. And Meme say dot her moder come to ze America dot ce fine her fader,
but ce have die ven ce not fine him; and ven ce say dot, ce cry, and vile ce cry, ze voman
come dare; and ce pull Meme, and ce tell her go avay. And ce lock ze door von oder time, and
ce take ze key avay mit her; and ven I bees alone, I cry, I cry.

"Zen long time ze voman come back, and ce lit me on her lap; and ven ce make my curls come
roun her fing-er, like my moder, I tink ce bees good; but zen I hear ze shear cut, and quick
I put my hand, and vile ce cut ze curls, ce cut my fing-er dot it bleed, and von curl and von
curl ce have cut. Zen much I scream, loud I scream. I call my moder, I call Meme. I say dot
I not have my curls cut, my moder say I not. All ze time I cry, and I hold my curls mit von
hand and mit von hand; and ven I have cry too much, I sleep on ze floor, and I not know it;
and long time, ven I vake, ze voman have come dare, and vile I sleep, ce have cut all ze curls.
Vile I tink, Meme ce come, and ce take hold my hand, and ce tell me dot ce have see ze voman
cut ze curls, and ce say dot I come avay mit her; and ven I come in ze room mit Meme, ze voman
ce be dare, and ce say some vords. Meme know vot ce say, I not know; but I stay dare mit Meme,
and I sleep in ze leetle bed mit Meme, and I say ze prayer vot Meme say.

"All ze time in ze day Meme go up to ze vindow, and votch dot her fader come; and ven ze bell
ring to ze door, ce tink dot he have come, and quick ce run, but he have not come.

"Von time von man come dare, and vile he mend ze vindow, he talk mit Meme, and ven ce tell
him vot her name be, he say dot he know her fader, dot he have see him, and dot he vill tell
him vare ce be. Zen Meme ce hop and ce jump and ce laugh, and ce be too glad. All ze days ce
go up to ze vindow, and ce look and ce look; and ze voman put on Meme von oder frock. Ce give
Meme ze locket, and ce give her much tings, ven ce tink dot Meme's fader come. But much days
he not come; and von time ze voman vill take avay ze locket fon Meme, and ven Meme say dot
ce not give it, dot ce have got ze gold fon her moder, and ze vatch, and all ze tings, ce strike
Meme.

"Zen ven it bees dark, ze voman come avay mit Meme and mit me in von oder big house, vare much
ze girls and much ze boys be vot have no fader and vot have no moder; and ven ze voman have
talk mit ze lady dare, ce go avay, but ce leave Meme dare, and ce leave me dare. Long time
Meme stay dare, and I stay dare. Meme go in ze school, and I go in ze school, mit ze boys and
mit ze girls. And Meme read mit zem ze English, and ven ce learn ze vords, ce tell me ze vords,
and ven I know ze vords, I talk mit zem, and Meme talk mit zem.

"Ze lady dare be good, but all ze time, ven Meme go in ze bed, ce cry dot her fader not come,
and dot ce not fine him.

"Von time ven it bees cold, too cold, and ze vinds blow, Meme say dot ce go, dot ce fine her
fader, dot ce know vare he be; and ven ze lady not know it, ce get her bonnet and ce get her
shawl, and ce kiss me much times; and ce say dot ven ce come back, ce vill bring her fader
mit her, and ce vill take me avay; and zen ven nobody see, ce go out. Long time ce go, and
ven it bees night, ce have not come back.

"Ze lady come and ce tell me, Vare is Meme? and I tell ze lady ce go dot ce fine her fader.
Zen ze lady tell ze man dot he go and he fine Meme; and ven long time ze man not come back,
ze lady ce go; but zey not fine her.

"In ze morning von man come dare, and he bring Meme mit him in hees arms; and von her hand
be freezed, and von her feet be freezed, and Meme cry; and ce tell ze lady dot vile ce fine
her fader, ce have loss ze vay, and ce bees cold and ce go up ze step to von door, but zey
not let her come in; and ce go up ze step to von oder door, but zey not let her come in. All
ze time ce do dot: ce go up and ce go up, but zey not let her come in, and some ze time zey
sut ze door, ven zey not know vot ce say. Zen ce bees too cold, and vile ce vait by von door,
ce sleep on ze stone; and ze man vot vatch in ze street, he fine her dare all vite mit ze snow.
He bring her avay to hees place, and he varm her, and ce cry and ce cry; and in ze morning
von man bring her home to ze lady; and long time Meme bees in ze bed, and ce bees sick, and
ce cough,--much ce cough.

"Much times ze doctor come dare, and he give Meme ze medicine, but ce not get vell; and von
time, ven I go to ze bed vare ce be, ce tell me dot ce die. Zen I cry, and Meme cry; and ce
tell me dot ven her fader come, I vill tell him dot ze voman have got ze gold fon her moder,
and ce have got ze locket, and ze vatch, and all ze tings. Zen Meme kiss me, and ce tell me
dot I vill tell her fader dot ce love me, and dot he vill take me avay mit him; and vile Meme
say dot, ce cry and ce cough. Zen quick ce not cough, and too quick ze lady come dare; and
ven ce call Meme, Meme ce not hear,--ce have go im Himmel, ce have die, ce be dead. Ze lady
cry; and all ze girls and ze boys come in, and ven zey see Meme dare, zey cry. Zen ze lady
ce make nice tings, and ce put zem on Meme, all vite like ze snow; and von man bring dare ze
box vot zey put Meme in, and it bees smooth like ze glass, and it open vare her face be; and
all ze girls and ze boys see Meme, ven ce bees in ze box all vite. And von oder lady dare vot
love Meme and vot teach her ze English, put ze flowers in ze box mit Meme; and ce kiss her,
and I kiss her, and ze lady kiss her; and ze man make ze box tight, and he go avay off mit
Meme, and he put her in ze ground.

"Long time I stay dare, and Meme's fader not come; but von day von good man come dare, and
he lif me vay high in hees arms, and ven I feel him mit my hands, he have von big hat, mit
no hair on hees head, and mit no but-tens on hees coat. Some English he speak, and some English
he not speak. All ze time he say zee and zou, zee and zou; and ven he say dot he love me, and
dot he vill take me avay mit him, I tink he bees Gott,--dot he have come, and he vill take
me im Himmel mit my moder, and mit ze baby, and mit Meme, and I hold him tight aroun mit my
arms; and zen ze lady say dot I go, and ce tell me Good-by, too quick I take my hand avay,--I
tink dot ce keep me.

"Zen ze good man come mit me in hees carriage, and he make hees coat come roun me; and ven
he come to hees house, he go up ze steps mit me in hees arms; and ven he have ring ze bell,
ze lady come to ze door, and ze good man tell her dot he have got me. Zen he stand my feets
down on ze floor, and he come mit ze tring, and he make it go roun me, and he make it how long
I bees; and he make hees fing-er go on my feets, and he make ze tring go roun my head.

"Zen ze lady take me down ze stair, and ze voman dare put me in ze vater, and ce vash me and
ce vash and ce vash; zen ce vipe and ce vipe; zen ce comb and ce comb, and ce make my curls
come roun her fing-er. Zen ze good man have come back, and he bring mit him von leetle coat,
and ze sirt and ze trouser vot I have, and ze stockings and ze shoes and ze hat; and ze lady
ce put zem on me, and ce put von leetle hankchief in my pocket; and ce bring someting vot smell
like ze rose, and ce spill it on my head, and ce spill it on my hands and on my hankchief,
and ce vet my face mit it. Zen ze lady ce kiss me much times, much times ce kiss; and ze good
man kiss me, and he lif me in hees arms, and he come avay mit me up ze stair to ze parlor,
and ze lady bring me ze cake.

"Georgy come fon ze school, and Mary come fon ze school, and Franky, and ven zey talk, zey
say zee and zou. But he love me dare; and Georgy love me, he give me ze pennies in my pocket;
and Mary love me, ce kiss me much times; and Franky say dot he vill give me hees horse vot
go vay up and vay down, but he not valk, he have not ze life. He bees von vood horse, mit ze
bridle and mit ze saddle on him, and Franky's fader have buy him to ze store; and much times
Franky ride on him, and I ride on him."

VII.

Usually, when Little Jakey stopped his sweet talk, it was like the running down of a music-box,
but not always as easy to set him going again. Besides, at the close of the last chapter he
seemed to think his story ended, and put up his face for a kiss, as much as to say, Now please
love me a little, and not tease me any more. So I yielded to his mood, and petted him awhile;
wound his curls around my finger, and talked with him about everything likely to amuse him,
until coming to a little pause in the conversation, I said,--

"How long did you stay with those thee and thou friends, Jakey? How long did the good man keep
you with him in his house?"

"O, big long time I stay dare," he said, "and von time I come mit Mary in ze school vare ce
go, and all ze Sundays ze lady and ze good man say dot I come mit zem all to ze Meeting. I
love Mary; ce give me ze flowers, and I sleept mit her in ze bed; and all ze time I go mit
her in ze garden, and ce tell me ze vords and ze flowers vot I not know.

"Much times ven ze peoples come dare vot say zee and zou, ze good man lif me in hees arms,
and he tell me dot I talk mit zem, and much zey kiss me. Von time von man give me in my pocket
ze big moneys, and zen Mary ce come mit me to ze store, and ce sell zem, and ce buy me ze coat
mit ze but-tens, vot I vear in ze Meeting. And ven I go to ze Meeting, Mary ce tie ze ribbon
roun my hat, and ce bruss me, and ce vash me, and ce make my curls come roun her fing-er, like
my moder; and ce valk mit me to ze Meeting, and all ze time I sit mit her dare.

"Von day, ven ze good man say dot he bring me here in ze Institution, vare I read ze letters
mit my fing-er, Mary say dot ce vill come mit me, and Georgy say dot he come; and Franky say
dot he come; and Franky's fader say dot he may, and zey all come in ze carriage, and ze lady
come. Ven zey go avay I not go mit zem, I stay here. Von time Mary have come here, and ce kiss
me much times, and ce bring me ze flowers, and ce bring me ze cakes; and ven ce go avay ce
cry, and ce say dot ce vill come von oder time, and ce vill bring Franky mit her. But ce have
not come; von day ce vill come.

"Vill Gott know vare I bees, and vill he fine me here, ven he come? My moder say dot he vill
come, and I know he vill."

VIII.

Two days after these sweet words, to my surprise, I found Little Jakey pillowed in an arm-chair.

"Bless me!" I exclaimed, "what has happened to this dear treasure? Are you sick, Little Jakey?"

"No," he replied, hardly able to speak, "I not sick, but I have got ze pain in my life," placing
his little hand on his chest, "dot bees all. Vile I hear ze birds sing in ze park, I not know
it, and I sleep on ze ground; and vile I sleep I tink my moder and ze baby, and Meme mit her,
come vare I be. I tink zey all come fon Himmel, and I see zem, and I talk mit zem, and zey
talk mit me, and zey say dot I vill go mit zem; but ven I vake I bees sleep on ze ground, and
ze big rains have come down, and zey have vet me too vet, and I bees too cold; and ven I tink
I come to ze house, I not fine ze vay; and I have got ze pain in my head, and ze pain in my
neck. Long time I not fine ze vay; zen long time Bridget ce come, and ce bring me to ze house,
and ce put me in ze bed; and in ze night I have got ze pain in my life."

I knelt down before the dear, stricken lamb, and blaming my neglect of him, I kissed him many
times, and tried to smooth the pain from his little brow; but what I felt, words can never speak.

The next morning Little Jakey was regularly installed in the sick-room.

Days passed, but the doctors would not say that they thought him any better. Some days, however,
he was able to be pillowed up in an arm-chair, and amuse himself a little with the toys the
children were constantly bringing him; for by this time the desire to do something for Little
Jakey had come to pervade the whole house.

Once, sitting by his little bed, I discovered that he was trying very hard to keep awake, and
I said to him softly,--

"Dear Jakey, why do you not shut those sweet eyes of yours, and go to sleep? Surely you must
be sleepy."

"Yes, but I tink I not sleep. Vile I sleep, ze pain make me groan, and Mattie ce hear me, and
ce not sleep."

Mattie was then very sick also, and lying on a little bed not far from his.

One day Mr. Artman, a German, called on Jakey, who asked for his little box of moneys, which
had been presented to him mostly by visitors, and placing it in Mr. Artman's hand, he said
to him, in his own sweet way,--

"You vill keep ze leetle box mit you.

IX.

One warm day when I visited Little Jakey his bed had been drawn around facing the window, and
I found him sitting bolstered up there, with his long black curls lying out on the pillows.

"My dear," said I, "I have brought you a bouquet, and let us pull it into pieces and see what
we can make of it."

Soon Little Jakey's bed was strewn over with the flowers. I do not remember ever having seen
him so cheerful as he was that evening. Making a little hoop from a piece of wire, I twined
him a wreath, while he amused himself handing me the flowers for it, and feeling over their
soft leaves, and asking their names. Whether large or small, he never asked the name of the
same kind of flower but once. When we placed it on his little head,--

"Vy!" he exclaimed, "von time my moder have vear ze flowers like dis. Ce go vare von lady sing
vot have come fon Italy; my fader go mit her dare. And von time ze lady come to my moder's
house, and ce sing to ze harp, and ce sing to ze piano, and my moder and my fader sing mit
her; and ce stay dare to ze supper, and much peoples come to ze supper."

I remained with Little Jakey that night, and when all were still, and the night taper was glimmering
faintly through the room, I felt his little hand pull mine, as if he would draw me closer to him.

"What, dear?" I said, stooping over him.

"Why, Jakey," I asked, coaxingly, "what makes you think so?"

"Vy, ven ze baby die, ce be sick; and ven my moder die, ce be sick; and ven Meme die, ce be
sick; and I be sick, and I tink I die."

"So you are, very sick indeed, dear Jakey," I said; "but you will not be sorry to die, will
you, dear?"

"No, I not sorry; but all ze time I tink, How vill it be? Ven Gott take me im Himmel, vill
he come mit me in ze leetle boat? zen vill he come mit me in ze big boat, mit ze big fire?
and zen vill he come in ze big ship, mit ze tree vay high, and mit ze sail? and ven ze vinds
blow too hard, and ze ship come crash on ze rock, and all ze peoples cry, vill Gott hold me
tight in hees arms, like my moder?"

"Yes, you dear, dear child," I said, "God will surely keep you close in his arms always, and
when you come where he is, dear Jakey, your sweet eyes will have the light in them. You will
see the stars then, and the angels, and all the good people who have gone to heaven from this
world, and God, and his dear Son, Jesus. You know about him, do you not? He loves little children."

"Yes, I know him," he said; "my moder have tell me dot von time he have come fon Himmel in
ze vorld, and ze wicked men have kill him; zey have nail him to ze tree; and my moder say dot
Jazu be ze Lord, and dot he love ze little children, and von time he have lif zem in hees arms;
and he say dot he love zem all, and dot he vill bring zem im Himmel mit him, ven zey bees good.
Meme ce know him too, and much times ce talk mit him in ze prayer vot ce say; and ce say dot
he hear her, ce know he do. Ze good man know him, and much he talk mit him in ze Meeting; but
to ze table he not talk, he tink mit him, mit hees hands so (crossing his own little ones,
as if in the act of devotion). Georgy do dot vay, and Franky, and zey all; and Mary tell me,
and I do dot vay."

After a little, he asked again with great earnestness,--

"How vill it be? If Gott not know ven I die, and if he bees not here, vill zey keep me von
day and von day, vile he come?"

"O yes, dear Jakey." I said; "but God will be here. He is here now. Let me explain it to you.
God is a great Spirit, and he is everywhere. You have a little spirit in you, too, Jakey, that
makes you talk and think and feel; now, while your spirit is shut up in your little body here,
it cannot see God, but when this little body dies, your spirit will come out, and then it will
see God, and see everything, and have wings and rise up, like the angels, and fly away to heaven,
or Himmel, as you call it."

I was wondering what Little Jakey was thinking of this, when, after a moment, he exclaimed,--

"Vy! ven my moder have make me in ze pic-sure, ce make me mit vings, but ce not say dot I have
ze vings, ven I come im Himmel. Heaven bees in America, but Himmel bees in Germany. My moder
go dare, and ce say dot Gott vill come, and he vill bring me mit him dare, vare ce be. I vish
I come dare now!"

"Darling, you must shut your sweet eyes now and go to sleep."

"No," he said, "ven I sut my eyes, zey not sut, and ven I tink I sleep, I not sleep. I bees
cold; too cold I bees. Vill Gott come, and vill he fine me here? How vill it be? How--vill--it--be?"

We sprang to him, and, leaning over his little form, felt that his pulse was really still,
and his sweet breath hushed forever.

 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

THE LOST CHILD.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.

Remember? Yes, I remember well that time when the disagreement arose between Sam Buckley and
Cecil, and how it was mended. You are wrong about one thing, General; no words ever passed
between those two young men; death was between them before they had time to speak.

I will tell you the real story, old as I am, as well as either of them could tell it for themselves;
and as I tell it I hear the familiar roar of the old snowy river in my ears, and if I shut
my eyes I can see the great mountain, Lanyngerin, bending down his head like a thoroughbred
horse with a curb in his mouth; I can see the long gray plains, broken with the outlines of
the solitary volcanoes Widderin and Monmot. Ah, General Halbert! I will go back there next
year, for I am tired of England, and I will leave my bones there; I am getting old, and I want
peace, as I had it in Australia.

That is the whole story, General Halbert; and who should know it better than I, Geoffry Hamlyn?

 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

GOODY GRACIOUS! AND THE FORGET-ME-NOT.

BY JOHN NEAL.

Once there was a little bit of a thing,--not more than so high,--and her name was Ruth Page;
but they called her Teenty-Tawnty, for she was the daintiest little creature you ever saw,
with the smoothest hair and the brightest face; and then she was always playing about, and
always happy; and so the people that lived in that part of the country, when they heard her
laughing and singing all by herself at peep of day, like little birds alter a shower, and saw
her running about in the edge of the wood after tulips and butterflies, or tumbling head-over-heels
in the long rich grass by the river-side, with her little pet lamb or her two white pigeons
always under her feet, or listening to the wild bees in the apple-blossoms, with her sweet
mouth "all in a tremble," and her happy eyes brimful of sunshine,--they used to say that she
was no child at all, or no child of earth, but a fairy-gift, and that she must have been dropped
into her mother's lap, like a handful of flowers, when she was half asleep; and so they wouldn't
call her Ruth Page,--no indeed, that they wouldn't!--but they called her little Teenty-Tawnty,
or the Little Fairy; and they used to bring her fairy tales to read, till she couldn't bear
to read anything else, and wanted to be a fairy herself.

