"On the 11th May, the French opened two Batteries mounting thirteen guns, and one or two mortars.
Their heavy metal consisted of one twenty-four and two eighteen pounders, the rest were all
light. They did not seem to confine their fire entirely to any particular part of the Walls,
otherwise I believe they might in time have made a breach, and their fire was not very smart.
We were masters of a much superior fire, and annoyed the besiegers at their batteries very
much. Their fire became every day more and more faint, and it was generally believed they intended
to raise the seige.

"On the 16th May, in the evening the Vanguard, commodore Swanton, and Diana Frigate, Captain
Schomberg, arrived from England, and next morning, 17th May, 1760, they and the Leostaff attacked
the two French Frigates that lay at anchor in the Bay, above Cape Diamond; which when they
first observed, they made as if they intended to engage, but on our ships approaching nearer,
they set sail up the river; but one of them ran ashore immediately, and our Frigates soon got
up with theirs, and obliged them also to run aground and thereafter destroyed them. One ship
however escaped out of their reach, and unluckily, the Leostaff, after all was over, ran on
a rock, sunk and was entirely lost.

"That very night several deserters came into the Town, and informed that most part of the French
army had marched, the Trenches being guarded by their Grenadiers only. About twelve o'clock
at night, the General sent out a party who found the Trenches entirely abandoned and next morning,
18th May, 1760, we found ourselves entirely freed of very disagreeable neighbours, having left
behind all their artillery, with a great part of their ammunition, Camp equipage and baggage.
What made them retreat with such precipitation we could not guess; but, it seems they were
seized with a panic. It appears they allowed the savages to scalp all the killed and most part
of the wounded, as we found a great many scalps on the bushes.

"I have been since informed by Lieutenant McGregor, of our Regiment, who was left on the field
wounded, and narrowly escaped being killed, having received two stabs of a bayonet from two
French Regulars, that he saw the savages murdering the wounded and scalping them on all sides,
and expected every moment to share the same fate, but was saved by a French Officer, who luckily
spoke a little English."

Thus ends Fraser's narrative of the two sieges of Quebec. He served in the third siege, that
of 1775-76, and was still alive in 1812-15 to give counsel when Quebec was again menaced by
the Americans.

Given under my hand and seal at Quebec, this 27th day of April, 1762.

(Signed) JAS. MURRAY.

The New England rebels were very successful on their first arrival in this Province having
got most of the Canadians in their interest. They took the two Regiments (which were all the
regular troops in the Province) prisoners, made themselves masters of the Town of Montreal
and all the Forts and the whole open country. Flushed with this success they came before our
Capital (Quebec) where their main army was joined by a reinforcement of six hundred men who
had marched straight through the Woods from Boston where scarcely any body had ever passed
before and thought utterly impracticable for a body of men. The suburbs about Quebec which
were extensive (now in ruins) were not all destroyed at the first arrival of the enemy so that
in two places they annoyed us with their Riflemen though they only killed a very few. They
also (though in the Winter) got a Battery of five guns against the Town but [it] was silenced
by a superior fire from our Ramparts. They also bombarded the Town in the night with small
shell till the 31st December when about two hours before day they made a general attack with
their whole force upon the Ramparts, their two principal attacks being against the two extremitys
of the low Town. Their General (Montgomery) an Irish gentleman who had been a Captain in our
army possessing extraordinary qualifications fitting him for such a Command led the attack
against a very strong post in the low town. Our Cannon (six pieces) loaded with grape shot,
did not begin to fire till the enemy was within the distance of twenty yards, which with the
musketry of the guard at the same time made terrible havoc. Their General with four of his
officers lay slain in one heap within twenty and others within ten yards of our fortifications
by which that attack was wholly frustrated and all that part of their army retired in confusion.
The attack upon the other extremity of the low Town was made with six hundred men. At first
they had success though that turned out at last to their ruin. They forced our advanced post
where we had four pieces of cannon, afterward got possession of another barrier and forced
their way through a narrow street to the last barrier, which if they had gained they would
have been in the low Town. At the same time the Governor ordered a sally out at a Gate they
had passed to follow their track in the snow (that was then deep) and fall upon them behind.
That we should open a Gate and attack them when attacked ourselves was a thing very unexpected
so that finding they were stopped at the last barrier and thus attacked behind they were obliged
to take shelter in the houses of the narrow street and at last gave themselves up prisoners
to the number of about four hundred and fifty amongst whom were thirty-two officers of all
ranks from Colonels to Ensigns. The morning of the attack I happened to have the Piquet and
guessing by the flashes in the air (in the dark) that it was musketry at the other side of
the town, tho' we heard no report, had the Piquet drawn out upon the Ramparts at our alarm
post, before the firing came round that length, which it soon did and we fired away upon these
people as they passed along that way, which they were obliged to do to get to the low Town.
About break of day Major Caldwell came round with some men, and took me with part of the Piquet
along with him to the low Town. When we got there the enemy had got on as far as the inner
Barrier and [had] a Ladder on both sides of it. There the Battle raged till the Enemy falling
back got into Houses. Some time after the Sorti coming behind them put an end to the affair.
The Garrison in general behaved remarkably well consisting in all of about 1400 men, mostly
the town Militia and sailors with 200 of Maclean's corps which were only raised last summer.
They certainly did their duty with much patience during a severe winter of six months. In the
day time we wrought a great deal at the fortifications and shovelling the snow and in the night
even those not upon duty durst not sleep but with Clothes and accoutrements on and by whole
Companys in one House to be the more ready, for, upon our vigilance, everything depended. For
the last month the Enemy had two Batterys of four Guns each, playing on the Town with red hot
Balls, in hope to set it on fire but luckily did very little harm. They also made use of a
fire ship in order to burn our shipping in the Harbour, which would have communicated the flames
to the Town, at the same time intending to escalade the Walls, for which purpose they laid
numbers of ladders all round in our sight which had the effect to keep us more upon our Guard.
This fire ship got very near the Harbour but a Cannon being fired that was well directed the
men that were in her left her a little too soon so that the tide carried her clear past the
town without doing the least harm and disappointed them of their attack for which their whole
army was prepared. Thus from the 14th of November last we passed one dreary night after another
either watching or making Rounds and Patrole upon an extent of works of upwards of three miles
round, till the 6th of May when we had the agreeable sight of Commodore Douglass with a Ship
of War and two Frigates arriving in the Bason with part of the 29th Regiment on board. And
the same day with only the reinforcement of about 300 Regular Troops the Gates were thrown
open and the whole garrison (except those on Guard) poured out, drove off the Enemy's advanced
Guards and marched forward near two miles clear out upon the plain (our former field of Battles
last war) with three pieces of cannon in our front that fired away at some partys of men at
a distance. This Sally, so unexpected and the two Frigates [being] under sail at the same time
up the River; [and the enemy] being ignorant of our numbers and suspecting probably that there
was a force on board the Frigates which might by taking possession of a strong post above cut
off their retreat, their whole army took to their heels (it is said about 3000 men) leaving
all their Artillery stores, baggage and provisions which fell into our hands. I suppose they
will retreat to Montreal where they expect strong reinforcements from New England. We will
probably soon follow them though our Corps may possibly be left to garrison Quebec. General
Carleton has gained honour by his behaviour this winter. He showed himself a brave steady officer
careful not to expose rashly the lives of his men, in short a chief whom we esteem and cheerfully
obey. Lieut. Colonel Maclean has likewise great merit in having contributed much to the preservation
of this place by his forwarding the reparations of the fortifications and his indefatigable
care and trouble in the directing the duty of the Garrison, together with his management in
every shape as a good officer. He was here the second in Command and seemed the fittest man
in the world for the place he occupied. There were also several old Officers who happened to
be here and were of great service as Major Caldwell who distinguished himself very much, Major
Cox, two Captain Frasers and several others.

Mr. Wauchope who you will wish to hear of is very well. He has done Lieutenant's duty this
winter in Maclean's Regiment, is a good officer and went through some severe Duty with great
perseverance.

Yours, &c., &c.,

J.N.

APPENDIX D (p. 98)

MEMORANDUM FOR ENSIGN JOHN NAIRNE, 5TH APRIL, 1795

1st. You ought to read the Articles of War.

2nd. To pay the greatest attention to all orders from your Superior Officers.

3rd. Take care to have your own Orders strictly obeyed by those who are under your Command
but before you give any Order, be sure it is right and necessary.

4th. Attend the Parades, and learn without delay the different motions and words of Command
and every part of the Duty of a Subaltern officer when upon guard; also when under Arms with
the whole Battalion, or otherwise.

5th. Be always ready and willing to go upon every military duty that may be ordered. Never
think you do too much in that way; the more the better and the more honourable.

6th. Be careful in doing the Company Duty, in such a manner, that the Soldiers may be kept
in excellent Order and everything belonging to them; as their Arms, Accoutrements, Ammunition,
Necessarys, Dress, Messing, etc., according as may be regulated by the standing Orders of the
Regiment, or that may be most agreeable to your Captain or Lieutenant Commanding the Company;
also not only to know every man of the Company by Name, but, as soon as possible, to know their
several Characters and Dispositions that each may be encouraged, cherished, or punished, as
he deserves. You ought every day, or very frequently to wait on your Captain, or Lieutenant
Commanding the Company, in order to report to him upon these matters, and to know if he has
any directions or Commands for you.

7th. Endeavour all you can to learn the Adjutant's Duty: To be able to Exercise the Company
(or even the Battalion) in the Manual, their Manoeuvres and the firings.

8th. Make yourself fit for paying the Company, and to be exact in keeping Accounts, so that
you may be capable of even being paymaster to a Regiment.

9th. You ought to practice writing Court-Martials, Returns, and Reports of all sorts, Acquittance
Rolls, Muster Rolls, and Letter Writing; taking always great pains to have a good hand of writ
and to spell well.

10th. It is also recommended to you to study Engineering and Drawing; To read Military Books,
The occurrences and news of the time and History, etc.; Never to leave anything undone which
you think ought to be done; in short, not to lose or misspend time, but constantly [to] endeavour
to gain knowledge, and improvement, and to exert yourself in being always steady and diligent
in the Execution of every part of your Duty.

11th. No doubt you will soon get Acquainted with all the officers of the Regiment, and to know
the Companys the Subaltern Officers belong to, likewise to know the Names and Characters of
all the non-Commissioned officers, and the Companys they belong to, even most of the private
men and what Companys they are in. You ought to have a Book of Quarters (or List of the Army)
and learn the Number, and any thing else Remarkable of each Regiment; also concerning the Generals,
and Field Officers, and the Rules and Regulations of the Army.

N.B.--Never be ashamed to ask questions at any of your Brother Officers in order to gain information.
The Sergeants of your Company will furnish you with any Rolls, Lists or Returns you may have
occasion for respecting the Regt. The Beluga (Delphinapterus leucas), is a real whale with
its most striking characteristic the white, or rather cream-coloured, skin described by some
writers as very beautiful. Like the narwhal it has no dorsal fin. Though the smallest member
of the whale family it is sometimes more than twenty feet long; but usually ranges from thirteen
to sixteen feet. The young are bluish black in colour and may be seen swimming beside their
mother who feeds them with a very thick milk. These young grow rapidly and become mottled and
then white as they grow older. The beluga is peculiar to northern regions where the water is
cold: when one is seen at the mouth of an English river it is a subject of special note. There
are numbers in Hudson Bay and they have been found in the Yukon River, it is said, 700 miles
from its mouth, whither they went no doubt after salmon or other fish.

Jacques Cartier saw the beluga disporting itself off Malbaie nearly 400 years ago and in summer
it is still to be seen there almost daily. It is never alone. One sees the creatures swimming
rapidly in single file. They come to the surface with a prolonged sigh accompanied by the throwing
of a small jet of water; the perfectly white bodies writhe into view as the small round heads
disappear. Sometimes the beluga makes a noise like the half suppressed lowing of oxen and,
since the aquatic world is so silent, sailors have christened the beluga, for this slender
achievement, the "sea canary." It is a playful creature and is apparently attracted by man's
presence. Before its confidence in him was shaken it used to linger about wharves and ships.
But, in spite of the extremely small aperture of its ear, it is very sensitive to sound and
modern man with his fire arms and clatter of machinery frightens it away. In 1752 the Intendant
Bigot issued special instructions to check the use of firearms on the point at Rivière Ouelle,
in order that the beluga might not be frightened, to the ruin of the extensive fishery that
has existed there for more than two hundred years. Its sight, touch and taste are also well
developed but it has no olfactory nerve and is apparently without the sense of smell. The creature
has qualities that we should hardly expect. It has been tamed and almost domesticated. The
enterprising Barnum exhibited in New York a beluga which drew a boat about in his aquarium.
At Boston another beluga from the St. Lawrence drew about a floating car carrying a woman performer.
It knew its keeper and at the proper time would appear and put its head from the water to be
harnessed or to take food. This beluga would take in its mouth a sturgeon and a small shark
confined in the same tank, play with them and allow them to go unharmed. It would also pick
up and toss stones with its mouth.

The beluga is greedy. In the early spring, when he is thin and half starved, capelin and smelt
in great numbers come to spawn along the north and south shores of the St. Lawrence. With high
tide comes the beluga's chance to feed on the spawning fish and he will rush in quite near
to shore for his favourite food. So voracious is he that with the fish he takes quantities
of sand into his stomach. In eight or ten days he will eat enough to form from five to eight
inches of fat over his whole body. "The facility with which he thus grows fat is explained,"
says the Abbé Casgrain, "by the easy assimilation of such food and by the considerable development
of his digestive apparatus."

No doubt the beluga enjoys himself hugely. But Nemesis awaits him. His fish diet has a soporific
effect; gorged with food he becomes stupid and is easily taken. Man's trap for him is simple
and ingenious. A century and a half ago it was to be seen at Pointe au Pic and to-day it is
in operation at Rivière Ouelle on the south side of the river. The weir or fishery for the
beluga must be on a large scale and is expensive to keep up; it is for this reason that when
the number of these creatures declined it was no longer possible to maintain the fishery at
Pointe au Pic. At Rivière Ouelle annually more than 7000 stakes, from 18 to 20 feet long, are
necessary to keep in repair the fishery which is almost entirely destroyed each year by ice.
Beginning at the shore a line of stakes is carried out into the river placed perhaps a foot
apart to form a rough semi-circle about a mile and a third long. The stakes curve back to the
shore leaving however a passage of perhaps 1000 feet open between the farther end and the shore.
This outer end of the weir is completed by a smaller circle of stakes, so arranged as to make
entrance easy by following within the line of stakes, but exit difficult. The distance between
high and low water mark at Rivière Ouelle is about a mile and a half and along this great stretch
of beach the small fish come in great numbers to spawn. There is a considerable point at the
mouth of the little Rivière Ouelle. The wide beach, bare at low water, and this point furnish
an admirable combination for the beluga fishery. At high tide the beluga comes rushing in near
to shore after his prey, sometimes in water so shallow that his whole body comes into view.
In his progress along the shore he is checked by the stakes reaching out from the point, so
close together that he cannot get through. The stakes sway with the current and sometimes strike
together making considerable noise. Early whalers thought the beluga would try to pass by squeezing
between the stakes and to prevent this they fastened the stakes together with ropes. But this
was not necessary. Frightened by the noise the timid beluga's instinct leads him to make for
the open water. He dashes across the semi-circle of the fishery only to be checked by the line
of stakes on its outer edge. The line like a wall he follows, looking for an opening, and may
be led insensibly into the labyrinthine circle at its end from which he will hardly escape.
If he heads back towards shore where he came in, he is frightened by the shallow water which
he disregarded only when in pursuit of his prey. Where was shallow water indeed he may now
find dry land for the tide is running out. So the creature becomes bewildered. He swims about
slowly, as it were feeling his way, or disappears at the bottom, to be stranded when the tide
goes out and thus becomes the prey of his enemy, man.

Some old belugas are very cunning; they are called by the French Canadian the savants, the
knowing ones, and seem to understand the wiles of the fisherman. They warn off the others and
so foil the design against them. But greediness proves often their destruction. From over-feeding
year after year they become fat and stupid and they too are likely in time to be taken. The
less knowing beluga has usually slight chance of escape when once he encounters the line of
stakes stretching out from the point and, since they follow each other blindly, if one is taken
a whole troop is likely to meet the same fate.

The Abbé Casgrain, who, since his childhood was spent at the Manor House at Rivière Ouelle,
was long familiar with the "porpoise" fishery, describes the scene witnessed there by him on
May 1st, 1873. It was a glorious day and the belugas appeared in greater numbers than for many
years. They swarmed off the mouth of the Rivière Ouelle. At high tide they came in, skirting
the rocks within a stone's throw of shore and devouring greedily the innumerable small fish.
The surface of the shallow water in which they swam was white with their gleaming bodies. When
they puffed they spurted jets of water into the air which fell in spray that sparkled in the
sunlight. The Abbé then describes how the creatures became entrapped in the fishery. Instances
of the mother's devotion are recorded. They have been known to wait outside the stakes for
their young, caught within, and to allow themselves to be stranded and killed rather than leave
their offspring.

When the tide is low the slaughter begins. In the season of the spring tide the water at Rivière
Ouelle retreats so far that the entrapped "porpoises" are left high and dry in the fishery
and are readily killed. But in the season of neap tides enough water is left for them to swim
about within the semi-circle of stakes. Boats are taken into the fishery through the outer
line of stakes and then begins a regular whale hunt within a very circumscribed area. If the
belugas are numerous their captors have not a moment to lose for the creatures may escape with
the next tide. And numerous they sometimes are; 500 have been taken in a single tide; at Rivière
Ouelle, about 1870, 101 were killed in one night by only four men. They had not expected such
a host and had no time to send for help before the tide should rise again.

The captors are armed with barbed harpoons and with spears. The harpoon is sometimes thrown
at the beluga from a considerable distance. When struck the creature rushes to the surface,
plunges and rolls to get free. He never defends himself but thinks only of flight. It is an
accident if a boat is upset by the stroke of its tail; such accidents sometimes happen but
the victim gets little more than a soaking, much to the merriment of his companions. The harpooned
beluga will make off at full speed dragging in his wake the assailant's boat which flies over
the face of the water, boiling with the mighty strokes of the monster's tail. Soon the water
is red for each beluga sheds eight or ten gallons of blood. When he is tired the boat is drawn
in closer by the rope fastened to the animal. As opportunity offers the spear is used and,
driven home by a strong hand, it sometimes goes clear through the body. A skilful man will
quickly strike some vital spot; otherwise the beluga struggles long.

"Picture if possible," says the Abbé, "the animation of the beluga hunt when a hundred of them
are in the weir, when twenty-five or thirty men are pursuing them, when five or six boats dragged
by the creatures are ploughing the enclosed waters in every direction, when the spears are
hurled from all sides and the men are covered with the blood which gushes out in streams. Some
years ago the passengers of a passing steamer from Europe were witnesses of such a scene and
showed their keen interest by firing a salvo of cannon."

When the belugas have been killed the next task is to get them to shore. The work must be done
quickly for the next tide will stop all work and may sweep the animals away. Horses are brought
and the bodies are dragged ashore or partly floated with the aid of the rising tide. The task
of cutting up and boiling follows immediately. Workmen with long knives take off the skin and
separate the blubber from the flesh. The Abbé Casgrain describes the process in detail. In
the end the blubber is cut up into small pieces and boiled in huge caldrons. The poor never
fail to come for their share of the catch and, with proverbial charity, the Company carrying
on the operations never send them away empty. "The share-holders" says the Abbé Casgrain, "are
convinced that the success of their labours depends upon the gifts which they make to God,
and their generosity merits His benediction," Many a habitant goes home with a mass of blubber
in his pot or hooked to the end of a stout branch.

The fishery is old and has been very profitable. La Potherie describes the industry as it existed
at Kamouraska in 1701: that at Rivière Ouelle is found in 1707 and it remained in the hands
of the heirs of the original promoters until, in 1870, it was found necessary to form them
into an incorporated company. The oil is highly valued. It is very clear and has good lubricating
qualities. Before the universal sway of petroleum it was much used for lighting purposes; an
ordinary lamp would burn for 72 hours without going out. The Abbé Casgrain says that a barrel
of the oil is worth from 100 to 200 dollars and since each beluga would yield not less than
a barrel the value of the fishery in a good season is evident. The skin is very thick and of
extraordinary strength. It has no grain and will take a beautiful polish.

[Beddard, "A Book of Whales" (London, 1900), pp. 244 sqq.

Sir Harry Johnston, "British Mammals," (London, 1903), pp. 22 sqq.

La Potherie, "Histoire de l'Amérique Septentrionale," (Paris, 1703), Vol. 1, Lettre X., pp.
273 sqq. 1, pp. 530 sqq.

Casgrain, "Eclaircissements sur La Pêche aux Marsouins," Ib. p. 563 sqq.]

APPENDIX F (p. 122)

THE PRAYER OF COLONEL NAIRNE

(There are several versions of parts of the Prayer. It is, I think, partly copied from some
other source, partly Nairne's own composition.)

We believe in Thee our God; do thou strengthen our faith; We hope in thee; confirm our hope;
we repent of all our Sins; but do thou increase our repentance. As our first beginning we worship
thee; as our benefactor we praise thee; and as our supreme protector we pray unto thee that
it may please thee, O God, to guide and lead us by thy Providence, to keep us in obedience
to thy justice, to comfort us by thy mercie, and to protect us by thy Almighty power. We submit
to thee all our thoughts, words, and deeds, as well as our afflictions, pains, and sufferings,
and in thy name and for thy sake [we desire] to bear all adversity with patience. We will nothing
but what thou Willest, because it is agreeable to thee. Give us grace that we may be attentive
in prayer, vigilant in our Conduct, and immovable in all good purposes. Grant, most merciful
Lord, that we may be true and just to those who put their trust in us, that we may be Courteous
and kind to all men, and that in both our words and actions we may show them a good example.
Dispose our hearts to admire and adore thy goodness, to hate all errours and evil ways. Assist
us, most gracious God, in subduing our passions, covetousness by liberality, anger by mildness,
and lukewarmness by zeal and fervency. Enable us to Conduct ourselves with prudence in all
transactions, to show courage in danger, patience in adversity, in prosperity an humble will.
Let thy Grace illuminate our understanding. Direct our will and bless our souls. Make us diligent
in curbing all irregular affections and Zealous in imploring thy Grace, careful in keeping
thy Commandments and constant in working out our own salvation.

We humbly beseech thee, O Lord, to assist us in keeping our temper and passions under due restraint
to reason and to virtue, so as not only to contribute to our internal peace of mind, honour,
and reputation in this life, but also to our eternal Comfort and happiness in the life to come;
and to defend us, O Lord, from the arts and subtilties which designing men may work against
us in order to lead us into evil or idle purposes. O! that we may well prepare ourselves for
Death and obtain of thee, O God, eternal life through the merits of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

APPENDIX G (p. 144)

THE CURÉS OF MALBAIE

Of the early missionaries I have found no record, though no doubt one could be compiled from
the episcopal archives. The registers at Malbaie do not begin until 1790 but I find a note
that in 1784 there were sixty-five communicants. Isle aux Coudres, Les Eboulements and Malbaie
were then united under one curé, M. Compain, who lived at Isle aux Coudres. He served Malbaie
from 1775 to 1788. This curé has a share in the legend of Père de La Brosse, which, since it
is characteristic of the region, is worth repeating.

Père de La Brosse was a much loved and saintly missionary priest, dwelling in his later years
at Tadousac. On the evening of April 11th, 1872, he played cards at Tadousac at the house of
one of the officers of the post. Rising to go at about nine o'clock he said to the company:

"I wish you good night, my dear friends, for the last time; for at midnight I shall be a dead
man. At that hour you will hear the bell of my chapel ring. I beg you not to touch my body.
To-morrow you will send for M. Compain at Isle aux Coudres. He will be waiting for you at the
lower end of the island. Do not be afraid if a storm comes. I will answer for those whom you
shall send."

At first the company thought the good father was joking. None the less did they become anxious
to see what should happen. Watch in hand they waited for the hour named. Exactly at midnight
the bell of the chapel rang three times. They ran to the chapel and there found Père de La
Brosse upon his prie-dieu dead.

The next day, Sunday, a south-east wind blew with violence. Huge white-capped waves made the
great river so dangerous that the employés of the post refused to undertake the journey to
Isle aux Coudres of forty or fifty miles in a canoe over a raging sea. But the chief clerk
at the post said to them: "You know well that the Father never deceived you. You ought to have
confidence in his word. Is there no one among you who will carry out his last wish?"

