I am a modest man, as well as an honest one. Censure cannot move me by one hair's breadth from
the narrow path of rectitude; praise cannot unduly puff me up. Had I been other than I am,
this last week would have gone fatally near to ruining that timid and shrinking diffidence
which (I say it without egotism) marks me off from the poisonous, pestilential, hydrocephalous,
putty-faced, suet-brained reptiles who disgrace the profession to which I belong. All I wish
now to do is to point out that I am the only prophet who indicated, without any beating about
the bush, that Marvel would win the Stewards' Cup at Goodwood. My admirers have recognised
the fact, and my private residence has been choked by an avalanche of congratulatory despatches,
including two or three from some of the highest in the land. H.S.H., the Grand Duke of PFEIFENTOPF
says:--"You have me with your writings much refreshed. I have the whole revenues of the Grand
Duchy against one thousand flaschen of lager bier gebetted, and I have won him on your noble
advice on Marvel. I make you Commander of the Honigthau Order." I merely cite this to show
that my appreciators are not to one country confined--I mean, confined to one country.

What did I say last week, in speaking of the Stewards' Cup horses? By the well-known grammatical
figure known as the hysteroproteron, I mentioned Marvel last, intending, of course, as even
a buffalo-headed Bedlamite might have seen, that he should be first. And he was first. But
to make assurance doubly sure, and to bring prophecy down to the intellectual level of a bat,
I added, in speaking of the winner, that he "would certainly be a Marvel." I say no more. As
the great Cardinal once observed to his chief of police, "Je te verrai soufflé d'abord," so
I reply to those who wish me to reveal the secret of my success. Mr. J. knows it not, and no
single member of the imbecile, anserous, asinine, cow-hocked, spavin-brained, venomous, hugger-mugger
purveyors of puddling balderdash who follow him has the least conception of my glorious system.
But I am willing to teach, though I have nothing to learn. For six halfpenny stamps those who
desire to know, shall receive my pamphlet on "Book-making." Every applicant must send his photograph
with his application, not necessarily for publication, but as a guarantee of good faith.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SUR LE TAPIS."--It was a carpet that ostensibly parted an eminent firm of composer, author,
and theatrical manager. W.S.G. didn't want D'OYLY CARPET--no, beg pardon, should have written
D'OYLY CARTE to have carte blanche. [Pretty name this. Is there a BLANCHE CARTE? If not, "make
it so."]--to do whatever he liked whenever he liked with the decorating and upholstering of
the theatre. And recently another carpet, not in connection with the above firm, created a
difficulty. What's a thousand-guinea carpet to a man who likes this sort of thing? Nothing.
Yet as amici curiae, we would have thought that that Tottenham Road carpet might have been
kept out of Court. Wasn't that a Blunder, MAPLE?

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM NILE TO NEVA.

    ["And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve
    with rigour. And they made their lives bitter with hard
    bondage."--Exodus.

    "The Russian Government, by the new edicts legalises
    persecution, and openly declares war against the Jews of the
    Empire."--Times.]

  "BEWARE!" 'Tis a voice from the shades,
  from the dark of three thousand long years,
  But it falls like the red blade of RA, and
  should echo in Tyranny's ears
  With the terror of overhead thunder; from
  Nile to the Neva it thrills,
  And it speaks of the judgment of wrong, of
  the doom of imperious wills.
  When PENTAOUR sang of the PHARAOH, alone
  by Orontes, at bay,
  By the chariots compassed about of the foe
  who were fierce for the fray,
  He sang of the dauntless oppressor, of RAMESES,
  conquering king;
  But were there such voice by the Neva to-day,
  of what now should he sing?
  Of tyranny born out of time, of oppression
  belated and vain?
  Put up the old weapon, O despot, slack hand
  from the scourge and the chain;
  For the days of the PHARAOHS are done, and
  the laureates of tyranny mute,
  And the whistle of falchion and flail are not
  set to the chords of the lute.
  True, the Hebrew, who bowed to the lash of
  the Pyramid-builders, bows still,
  For a time, to the knout of the TSAR, to the
  Muscovite's merciless will;
  But four millions of Israel's children are not
  to be crushed in the path
  Of a TSAR, like the Hittites of old, when great
  RAMESES flamed in his wrath
  Alone through their numberless hosts. No,
  the days of the Titans of Wrong
  Are past, for the Truth is a torch, and the
  voice of the peoples is strong.
  Even PENTAOUR, the poet of Might, spake in
  pity that rings down the years
  Of the life of "the peasant that tills" of his
  terrible toil and his tears;
  Of the rats and the locusts that ravaged, and,
  worse, the tax-gathering horde
  Who tithed all his pitiful tilth with the aid
  of the stick and the cord;
  And the splendour of RAMESES pales in the
  text of the old Coptic Muse,
  And--one hears the mad rush of the wheels
  that the fierce Red Sea billow pursues!

  O Muscovite, blind in your wrath, with
  your heel on the Israelite's neck,
  And your hand on that baleful old blade,
  Persecution, 'twere wisdom to reck
  The PHARAOH'S calm warning. Beware!
  Lo, the Pyramids pierce the grey gloom
  Of a desert that is but a waste, by a river
  that is but a tomb,
  Yet the Hebrew abides and is strong.
  AMENEMAN is gone to the ghosts,
  He the prince of the Coptic police who so
  harried the Israelite hosts
  When their lives with hard-bondage were
  bitter. And now bitter bondage you'd try.
  Proscription, and exile, and stern deprivation.
  Beware, Sire! Put by
  That blade in its blood-rusted scabbard. The
  PHARAOHS, the CAESARS have found
  That it wounds him who wields it; and you,
  though your victim there, prone on the ground,
  Look helpless and hopeless, you also shall find
  Persecution a bane
  Which shall lead to a Red Sea of blood to
  o'erwhelm selfish Tyranny's train.
  "Beware!" Tis the shade of MENEPTHA
  that whispers the warning from far.
  Concerning that sword there's a lesson the
  PHARAOH may teach to the TSAR!
       *       *       *       *       *

"REWARDS FOR GALLANTRY."--Among the numerous rewards mentioned in the Times of last Thursday,
the magnificent gold watch, with monogram in diamonds, presented by the Royal Italian Opera
Company to AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS at the close of the present exceptionally successful season,
was not mentioned. Most appropriate present from the persons up to tune to one who is always
up to time. The umble individual who writes this paragraph only wishes some company--Italian,
French, no matter which--would present him with a golden and diamonded watch. "O my prophetic
soul! My Uncle!!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRICE OF IT.

  GLADSTONE'S latest Benedicite
  Is bestowed on "free publicity."
  'Tis the thing that we all strive at,
  Praise in speech, and hate--in private!
  Where are pride, reserve, simplicity?
  Fled for ever--from Publicity!

       *       *       *       *       *

"MORE LIGHT!"--The Berners Hotel Co., with Mr. GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA as Chairman, should at
once be advertised as "The G.A.S.-Berners Hotel Co.," and, of course, no electric lighting
would be used. Mr. SIMS REEVES is also a Director of this Hotel Company. So it starts with
a tenner.

       *       *       *       *       *

Socialistic Military Novel. By JAMES ODD SUMMER. One Iron Soldier, and the Led Captain.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S MORAL MUSIC-HALL DRAMAS.

No. XII.--CONRAD; OR, THE THUMBSUCKER.

(Adapted freely from a well-known Poem in the "Struwwelpeter.")

CHARACTERS.

Conrad (aged 6). Conrad's Mother (47). The Scissorman (age immaterial).

SCENE--An Apartment in the house of CONRAD'S Mother, window in centre at back, opening upon
a quiet thoroughfare. It is dusk, and the room is lighted only by the reflected gleam from
the street lamps. CONRAD discovered half-hidden by left window-curtain.

Conrad (watching street). Still there! For full an hour he has not budged beyond the circle
of yon lamp-post's rays! The gaslight falls upon his crimson hose, and makes a steely glitter
at his thigh, while from the shadow peers a hatchet-face and fixes sinister malignant eyes--on
whom? (Shuddering.) I dare not trust myself to guess! And yet--ah, no--it cannot be myself!
I am so young--one is still young at six!--What man can say that I have injured him? Since,
in my Mother's absence all the day engaged upon Municipal affairs, I peacefully beguile the
weary hours by suction of consolatory thumbs. (Here he inserts his thumb in his mouth, but
almost instantly removes it with a start.) Again I meet those eyes! I'll look no more--but
draw the blind and shut my terror out. (Draws blind and lights candle; Stage lightens.) Heigho,
I wish my Mother were at home! (Listening.) At last. I hear her latchkey in the door!

Enter CONRAD'S Mother, a lady of strong-minded appearance, rationally attired. She carries
a large reticule full of documents.

Conrad's M. Would, CONRAD, that you were of riper years, so you might share your Mother's joy
to-day, the day that crowns her long and arduous toil as one of London's County Councillors!

Conrad. Nay, speak; for though my mind be immature, one topic still can charm my infant ear,
that ever craves the oft-repeated tale. I love to hear of that august Assembly (his Mother
lifts her bonnet solemnly) in which my Mother's honoured voice is raised!

C's. M. (gratified). Learn, CONRAD, then, that, after many months of patient "lobbying" (you've
heard the term?) the measure by my foresight introduced has triumphed by a bare majority!

Con. My bosom thrills with dutiful delight--although I yet for information wait as to the scope
and purpose of the statute.

C's. M. You show an interest so intelligent that well deserves it should be satisfied. Be seated,
CONRAD, at your Mother's knee, and you shall hear the full particulars. You know how zealously
I advocate the sacred cause of Nursery Reform? How through my efforts every infant's toys are
carefully inspected once a month--?

Con. (wearily). Nay, Mother, you forget--I have no toys.

C's. M. Which brings you under the exemption clause. But--to resume; how Nursery Songs and
Tales must now be duly licensed by our Censor, and any deviation from the text forbidden under
heavy penalties? All that you know. Well; with concern of late, I have remarked among our infancy
the rapid increase of a baneful habit on which I scarce can bring my tongue to dwell. (The
Stage darker; blind at back illuminated.) Oh, CONRAD, there are children--think of it!--so
lost to every sense of decency that, in mere wantonness or brainless sloth, they obstinately
suck forbidden thumbs! (CONRAD starts with irrepressible emotion.) Forgive me if I shock your
innocence! (Sadly.) Such things exist--but soon shall cease to be, thanks to the measure we
have passed to-day!

Con. (with growing uneasiness). But how can statutes check such practices?

C's M. (patting his head). Right shrewdly questioned, boy! I come to that. Some timid sentimentalists
advised compulsory restraint in woollen gloves, or the deterrent aid of bitter aloes. I saw
the evil had too deep a seat to yield to such half-hearted remedies. No; we must cut, ere we
could hope to cure! Nay, interrupt me not; my Bill appoints a new official, by the style and
title of "London County Council Scissorman," for the detection of young "suck-a-thumbs."

[Here the shadow of a huge hand brandishing a gigantic pair of shears appears upon the blind.]

Con. (hiding his face in his Mother's lap). Ah, Mother, see!... the scissors!... On the blind!

C's. M. Why, how you tremble! You've no cause to fear. The shadow of his grim insignia should
have no terror--save for thumb-suckers.

Con. And what for them?

C's. M. (complacently). A doom devised by me--the confiscation of the culprit thumbs. Thus
shall our statute cure while it corrects, for those who have no thumbs can err no more.

[The Shadow slowly passes on the blind, CONRAD appearing relieved at its departure. Loud knocking
without. Both start to their feet.

C's M. Who knocks so loud at such an hour as this?

A Voice. Open, I charge ye. In the Council's name!

C's M. 'Tis the Official Red-legged Scissorman, who doubtless calls to thank me for the post.

Con. (with a gloomy determination). More like his business, Madam, is with--Me!

C's. M. (suddenly enlightened). A Suck-a-thumb?... you, CONRAD?

C. (desperately). Ay,--from birth!

[Profound silence, as Mother and Son face one another. The knocking is renewed.

C's. M. Oh, this is horrible--it must not be! I'll shoot the bolt and barricade the door.

[CONRAD places himself before it, and addresses his Mother in a tone of incisive irony.

Con. Why, where is all the zeal you showed of late? is't thus that you the Roman Matron play?
Trick not a statute of your own devising. Come, your official's waiting--let him in! (C's.
M. shrinks back appalled.) So? you refuse!--(throwing open door)--then--enter, Scissorman!

[Enter the Scissorman, masked and in red tights, with his hand upon the hilt of his shears.

The S. (in a passionless tone). Though sorry to create unpleasantness, I claim the thumbs of
this young gentleman, which my own eyes have marked between his lips.

C's. M. (frantically). Thou minion of a meddling tyranny, go exercise thy loathsome trade elsewhere!

The S. (civilly). I've duties here that must be first performed.

C's. M. (wildly). Take my thumbs for his!

The S. 'Tis not the law--which is a model of lucidity.

Con. (calmly). Sir, you speak well. My thumbs are forfeited, and they alone must pay the penalty.

The S. (with approval). Right! Step with me into the outer hall, and have the business done
without delay.

C's. M. (throwing herself between them). Stay! I'm a Councillor--this law was mine! Hereby
I do suspend the clause I drew.

The S. You should have drawn it milder.

Con. Must I teach a parent laws were meant to be obeyed? [To Sc.] Lead on, Sir. (To his Mother
with cold courtesy.) Madam,--may I trouble you?

[He thrusts her gently aside and passes out with the S.; the door is shut and fastened from
without. C's. M. rushes to door which she attempts to force without success.

C's. M. In vain I batter at a senseless door, I'll to the keyhole train my tortured ear. (Listening.)
Dead silence!... is it over--or, to come? Hark! was not that the click of meeting shears?...
Again! and followed by the sullen thud of thumbs that drop upon linoleum!...

[The door is opened and CONRAD appears, pale but erect,--N.B. The whole of this scene has been
compared to one in "La Tosca"--which, however, it exceeds in horror and intensity.

C's. M. They send him back to me, bereft of both! My CONRAD! What?--repulse a Mother's Arms!

Con. (with chilling composure). Yes, Madam, for between us ever more, a barrier invisible is
raised, and should I strive to reach those arms again, two spectral thumbs would press me coldly
back--the thumbs I sucked, in blissful ignorance, the thumbs that solaced me in solitude, the
thumbs your County Council took from me, and your endearments scarcely will replace! Where,
Madam, lay the harm in sucking them? The dog will lick his foot, the cat her claw, his paws
sustain the hibernating bear--and you decree no law to punish them! Yet, in your rage for infantine
reform, you rushed this most ridiculous enactment--its earliest victim your neglected son!

C's. M. (falling at his feet). Say, CONRAD, you will some day pardon me?

Con. (bitterly, as he regards his maimed hands.) I will,--the day these pollards send forth shoots!

[His Mother turns aside with a heartbroken wail; CONRAD standing apart in gloomy estrangement
as the Curtain descends.

"RUNNING HIS EYE OVER THEM."

  GRANDOLPH muses:--"My Kingdom for a horse!"
  Ah, well!
  The question is,--which is my Kingdom?
  I'm bound to own there is a spell
  In Turfdom, Stabledom, and Ringdom,
  The spell that Lord GEORGE BENTICK knew,
  As DIZZY tells, I feel it too.

  He won brief leadership, who might
  Have won the Derby! Which was better?
  There's rapture in a racer's flight,
  There's rust on the official fetter.
  Of me the Press tells taradiddles!
  Well, I do set the fools strange riddles!

  "Fourth Party!" He was no bad start
  For a new stable, but he's done with.
  "Tory Democracy!" No heart!
  But 'tis a mount I've had good fun with.
  "Leader!" "Economy!" "Sobriety!"
  My Stable has not lacked variety.

  What does NORTH say? A ragged lot?
  Try a new string? And you, DUNRAVEN?
  Humph! Fancy does blow cold and hot.
  Audacious now, and now half craven.
  Well, freak's an unexhausted fount.
  Mentor, can you guess my next mount?

       *       *       *       *       *

MY PITHY JAYNE.

    [DR. JAYNE, Bishop of Chester, at a Conference of the Girl's
    Friendly Society, at Chester, said that until they were
    prepared to introduce basket-making into London Society as a
    substitute for quadrilles and waltzes, he was not disposed to
    accept it as an equivalent for balls and dances among girls of
    other classes.]

AIR.--"My Pretty Jane."

  My pithy JAYNE, my plucky JAYNE,
  Punch fancies you looked sly
  When you met them, met them down at Chester,
  And gave them "one in the eye."
  Bigotry's waning fast, my boy,
  But Cant we sometimes hear,
  And Chester cant is pestilent cant,
  My Lord, that's pretty clear.
  Then pithy JAYNE, my plucky JAYNE,
  Of smiting don't be shy;
  But meet them, meet the moonstruck Puritans
  And tell them it's all my eye.

  'Tis only play, and harmless play,
  Like kissing in the ring,
  When lads and lasses of spirits gay
  Dance like young lambs in Spring.
  That Spring will wane too fast, alas!
  But while it yet is here,
  Let youth enjoy, or girl or boy,
  The dance to youth so dear.
  Then pithy JAYNE, my plucky JAYNE,
  Don't heed the bigot's cry,
  But meet them, meet them down at Chester
  And teach them Charity!
RAVENSWORTH and UMBRELLA run them pretty close, but come in only
a good second. Moreover, whilst RAVENSWORTH and UMBRELLA rarely go
beyond the lobby, STRATHEDEN and CAMPBELL press forward into Gallery
reserved for Peers, and there sweetly go to sleep, "Like Babes in the
Wood," says Colonel MALCOLM, turning over leaves of Orders as if he
would like to complete the simile by acting the part of the birds.
To-night STRATHEDEN and CAMPBELL leave us forlorn. They have business
in their own House; been long concerned for interests of State as
affected by the MARKISS'S persistence in combining office of Premier
with that of Foreign Secretary.

"It would be too much even for us," said STRATHEDEN, in conversation we had before House met;
"and," he continued, "though I say it what shouldn't, I don't know any arrangement that would
be happier or more complete than if we undertook the job. What do you say, CAMPBELL? Would
you be Premier, or would you take the Foreign Seals?"

"The Premier place is yours," said CAMPBELL, gallantly; "at least, it is now. When we first
started in life we used to call ourselves CAMPBELL and STRATHEDEN. You'll find it so in the
Peerages of earlier date; now it's the other way about, and STRATHEDEN takes the pas."

"That was entirely your doing, CAMPBELL, said STRATHEDEN; so modest, so retiring, so thoughtful!
After we'd been known as CAMPBELL and STRATHEDEN for good many years, you came to me and said
it was my turn now. I objected; you insisted; and here we are, a power in the State, an object
of interest in the Commons, STRATHEDEN and CAMPBELL in the Lords."

"A little awkward, don't you think," I ventured to say, edging in a word, "for you two fellows
to take this strong stand against duality?"

"Not at all," said STRATHEDEN and CAMPBELL, both together; "we are authorities on the subject,
and we say that the MARKISS cannot in his single person adequately perform the dual duties
pertaining to his high offices; therefore we shall go and move our resolution protesting against
arrangement."

Pretty to see them marching off. Always walk on tip-toe; ROSEBERY says it is a practice adopted
so as not to disturb each other when engaged in thinking out deep problems; two of the best
and the happiest old fellows in the world; their only trouble is that on divisions their vote
should count as only one. CAMPBELL, in whom hot Cupar blood flows, once proposed to raise question
of privilege, but soothed by STRATHEDEN, who has in him a strong strain of the diplomatic character
of his grandfather, ABINGER.

Business done.--In the Lords, STRATHEDEN and CAMPBELL raised question of MARKISS as Premier
and Foreign Secretary. In Commons, Anglo-German Agreement sanctioned.

Tuesday.--Scotch Members had their innings to-night; played a pretty stiff game till, at twelve
o'clock, stumps drawn. All about what used to be called the Compensation Bill. Got a new name
now; Compensation Clauses dropped; but JOKIM finds it dreary work dragging the wreck along.

"Seems to me, Tony," he said with a sob in his voice, "that whatever I do is wrong. This Bill
has gone through various transmogrifications since; with a light heart, I brought it in as
part of Budget scheme. But it's all the same. Hit high or hit low, I can't please 'em. Begin
to think if there were any other business open for me, should chuck this up."

"Ever been in the carpet-cleaning line?" said MAPLE-BLUNDELL, in harsh voice, and with curiously
soured face. Generally beams through life as if it were all sunshine. Now cloud Seems to have
fallen over his expansive person, and he is as gloomy as JOKIM.

"It's all very well for you," he continues, glowering at JOKIM, "to complain of your lot; but
till you go into the carpet-cleaning line you never know what vicissitudes mean. One day, alighting
from your four-in-hand, and happily able to spare to Tottenham Court Road a few moments from
direction of national affairs, you look in at your shop; enter a lady who says she wants a
carpet cleaned. 'Very well' you say rubbing your hands, and smiling blandly; 'and what will
be the next article.' Nothing more. Only this blooming carpet, out of which, when the job is
finished and it is sent home you make a modest five bob. Your keen insight into figures, JOKIM,
will convince you that the coin colloquially known as five bob won't go far to enable you to
cut a figure in Society, drive four-in-hand, give pic-nics in your park to the Primrose League,
and subscribe to the Canton Fund. However, there it is; carpet comes; you send it out in usual
way, and what happens? Why it blows itself up, kills two boys, lames a man, and then you discover
that you've been entertaining unawares a carpet worth £1000 which you have to pay. Did that
ever happen to you at the Treasury?" MAPLE-BLUNDELL fiercely demanded. JOKIM forced to admit
that his infinite sorrows had never taken that particular turn.

