From this cause an actual practical anomaly has recently arisen. The French authorities in
Tahiti, in accordance with the before-mentioned rule, have arranged their day by western longitude;
consequently, in addition to other points of dissent, they observe the Sabbath and other festivals
one day later than the resident English missionaries.

I have extended this explanation to a greater length than I intended, but the subject is interesting,
and not generally well understood; to do it justice, therefore, is not compatible with brevity.
Much of what I have said is doubtless already known to your readers; nevertheless I hope it
may be useful in affording to H. the information he required, and to ESTE more fixed notions
on the subject than he seems to have entertained when he wrote the answer referred to.

A. E. B.

Leeds.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Aceto-Nitrate of Silver.--I have collected together several ounces of aceto-nitrate of silver
that has been used to excite waxed paper (iodized by MR. CROOKES' method), and should be glad
to know whether it can be used again for the same purpose.

JOHN LEACHMAN.

    [The aceto-nitrate may be used, but in our own practice we do not do
    so. It is apt to give an unpleasant brownish colour. The solutions of
    silver, {650} whether used for albumenising or otherwise, being reduced
    to a state of chloride by the addition of common salt so long as any
    precipitate is formed: fine silver may then be readily obtained by
    heating a crucible, the chloride consisting of three-fourths of pure
    metal. It is a false economy to use dirty or doubtful solutions, and by
    adopting the above course the pecuniary loss is very trifling. Our
    ordinary stoves will not always give a sufficient heat, but any working
    jeweller or chemist having the ordinary furnace would accomplish it.]

On the Restoration of old Collodion.--Many plans have been suggested for the restoration of
collodion when it has lost its sensitiveness by age. In the last Number of the Photographic
Journal, p. 147., MR. CROOKES proposes "to remove the free iodine from the collodion by means
of a piece of pure silver. For two ounces of liquid I should recommend a sheet of stout silver
foil, about two inches long and half an inch broad. It will require to remain in contact with
the collodion for about two days, or even longer if the latter be very dark-coloured; and in
this case it will sometimes be found advantageous to clean the surface of the silver, as it
becomes protected with a coating of iodide, by means of cyanide of potassium or hyposulphite
of soda.

"When thus renovated, the collodion will be found as sensitive and good as it was originally."

This plan is certainly more simple than any that has yet been recommended. The action of the
silver being its mere combination with the free iodine, thereby producing the reduction of
the collodion to its original colourless condition, I would venture to put this question to
MR. CROOKES (to whom the readers of "N. & Q." are already under great obligations): Does he
consider that it is the mere presence of free iodine which causes the want of sensitiveness
in the collodion? This is all which appears to be accomplished by the process which Mr. Crookes
recommends.

Now, as one who has had some experience, both in the manufacture and uses of collodion, such
a view does not agree with my practice and observation. Occasionally, upon sensitising collodion,
I have found it assume a deep sherry colour a few hours after being made. This must have depended
upon the free iodide it contained, and yet such collodion has worked most admirably. I have
now before me a large body of collodion almost red, and which has been made some three or four
months; yet the last time I used this, about a week since, it was just as good as when it was
first made. Undoubtedly collodion does more or less deteriorate with age; but here I would
observe, that there is an immense difference in the different manufactures of collodion, and
which can be ascertained by use only, and not by appearance.

But Mr. Hennah, who has had much practical experience, recommends the collodion to be made
sensitive merely by the iodide of potassium; and he said, "if it did not work quite clearly
and well, a little tincture of iodine brought it right." Here, then, is added the very thing
which MR. CROOKES proposes to abstract.

Again, MR. CROOKES considers the free iodine to be the cause of the colouring of the collodion;
will he then kindly explain its modus operandi?

As he has on several occasions given your readers the benefit of his great chemical knowledge,
I trust they may be favoured by him with a solution of these difficulties, which have puzzled

AN AMATEUR.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Admissions to Inns of Court (Vol. viii., p. 540.).--The following particulars may be of service
to your correspondent who requires information upon the subject of the matriculations at the
inns of court.

The books of Lincoln's Inn, which record the calls to the bar and other proceedings of the
Society, commence in the second year of the reign of Henry VI., 1423. Those of the Inner Temple,
which contain the admittances in 1547, and the calls to the bar in 1590; of the Middle Temple,
which contain a regular series of admissions and calls, about the year 1600; and of Gray's
Inn, about the year 1650. The earlier records of Gray's Inn were destroyed by fire, but the
Harleian MS. No. 1912., in the British Museum, contains:

An alphabetical list of gentlemen admitted to that society, with the dates of their admission,
from 1521 to 1674.

Table of the admittances into Gray's Inn, declaring the names of the gentlemen, the town and
country whence they came, and the day, month, and year when admitted, from the year 1626 to 1677.

Arms and names of noblemen and knights admitted to the said society.

An alphabetical list of all persons called to the bar by the said society.

The Lansdowne MS. No. 106., which is also in the British Museum, contains:

Names of benchers, associates, utter barristers, &c. of Lincoln's Inn, and the same of the
Inner Temple; and of the students of the several Inns of Court, apparently about the end of
the reign of Elizabeth.

JAS. WHISHAW.

Gower Street.

The MS. Harl. 1912. contains the admissions to Gray's Inn.

G. STEINMAN STEINMAN.

Inedited Lyric by Felicia Hemans (Vol. viii., p. 629.)--A surviving relative of the authoress
in question begs to answer to the correspondent of "N. & Q." who has produced this lyric from
an imperfect MS. original, that the piece has not remained inedited, but is to be found in
the several complete editions of Mrs. Hemans's works published by Blackwood. The playful signature
of the letter alluded to, as well as the subject of the lyric, it may be added, was suggested
by some conversation respecting the fanciful creatures of {651} fairy-land, with whose ideal
queen the authoress affected sportively to identify herself, and hence signed the little poem,
produced rather as a jeu d'esprit than anything else, "Mab." In its subsequently corrected
form, as admitted in the editions of her works, it is here subjoined:

          Water Lilies: A Fairy Song.

 "Come away, Elves! while the dew is sweet,
  Come to the dingles where fairies meet;
  Know that the lilies have spread their bells
  O'er all the pools in our forest dells;
  Stilly and lightly their vases rest
  On the quivering sleep of the water's breast,
  Catching the sunshine through the leaves that throw
  To their scented bosoms an emerald glow;
  And a star from the depths of each pearly cup,
  A golden star, unto heav'n looks up,
  As if seeking its kindred where bright they lie,
  Set in the blue of the summer sky.
  Come away, under arching boughs we'll float,
  Making those urns each a fairy boat;
  We'll row them with reeds o'er the fountains free,
  And a tall flag-leaf shall our streamer be.
  And we'll send out wild music so sweet and low,
  It shall seem from the bright flower's heart to flow;
  As if 'twere a breeze with a flute's low sigh,
  Or water-drops train'd into melody,
  Come away! for the midsummer sun grows strong,
  And the life of the lily may not be long."

ANON.

Derivation of Britain (Vol. viii., p. 344.).--Since my last reference to this matter (Vol.
viii., p. 445.) I find that the derivation of the name of Britain from Barat-anach or Brat-anach,
a land of tin, originated in conjecture with Bochart, an oriental scholar and French protestant
divine in the first half of the seventeenth century. It certainly is a very remarkable circumstance
that the conjecture of a Frenchman as to the origin of the name of Britain should have been
so curiously confirmed, as has been shown by DR. HINCKS, through an Assyrian medium.

G. W.

Stansted, Montfichet.

Derivation of the Word Celt (Vol. viii., p. 271.).--If C. R. M. has access to a copy of the
Latin Vulgate, he will find the word which our translators have rendered "an iron pen," in
the book of Job, chap. xix. v. 24., there translated Celte. Not having the book in my possession,
I will not pretend to give the verse as a quotation.[2]

T. B. B. H.

[Footnote 2: 24. Stylo ferreo, et plumbi laminâ, vel celte sculpantur in silice?]

"Kaminagadeyathooroosoomokanoogonagira" (Vol. viii., p. 539.).--I happen to have by me a transcript
of the record in which this word occurs; and it is followed immediately by another almost equally
astounding, which F. J. G. should, I think, have asked one of your correspondents to translate
while about the other. The following is the word: Arademaravasadeloovaradooyou. They both appear
to be names of estates.

H. M.

Peckham.

Cash (Vol. viii., pp. 386. 524.).--In The Adventures of the Gooroo Paramartan, a tale in the
Tamul language, accompanied by a translation and a vocabulary, &c., by Benjamin Babington London,
1822, is the following: "Fanam or casoo is unnecessary, I give it to you gratis." To which
the translator subjoins: "The latter word is usually pronounced cash by Europeans, but the
Tamul orthography is used in the text, that the reader may not take it for an English word."

    "Christmas-boxes are said to be an ancient custom here, and I would
    almost fancy that our name of box for this particular kind of present,
    the derivation of which is not very easy to trace in the European
    languages, is a corruption of buckshish, a gift or gratuity, in
    Turkish, Persian, and Hindoostanee. There have been undoubtedly more
    words brought into our language from the East than I used to suspect.
    Cash, which here means small money, is one of these; but of the
    process of such transplantation I can form no conjecture."--Heber's
    Narrative of a Journey through the Upper Provinces of India. vol. i.
    p. 52.

Angelo, in his Gazophylaceum Linguæ Persarum, gives a Persian word of the same signification
and sound, as Italicè cassa, Latinè capsa, Gallicè caisse.

BIBLIOTHECAR. CHETHAM.

"Antiquitas Sæculi Juventus Mundi" (Vol. viii., p. 502., &c.).--The authority of Fuller ought,
I think, to be sufficient to establish that this saying was Bacon's own and not a quotation.

Fuller thus introduces it: "As one excellently observes, 'Antiquitas sæculi juventus mundi,'"
&c., giving the remainder of the paragraph from the Advancement of Learning; and refers in
a note to Sir Frances Bacon's Advancement of Learning (Holy and Profane State, ch. vi.).

E. S. T. T.

Caves at Settle, Yorkshire (Vol. viii., p. 412.).--BRIGANTIA will find a very circumstantial
and interesting account of these caves, and their Romano-British contents, in vol. i. of Mr.
Roach Smith's Collectanea.

G. J. DE WILDE.

Character of the Song of the Nightingale (Vol. vii., p. 397.; Vol. viii., pp. 112. 475.).--One
poet, not so well known as he deserves, has escaped the observation of those who have contributed
to your valuable pages the one hundred and seventy-five epithets which others of his craft
have applied to the "Midnight Minstrel." I allude to the Rev. F. W. Faber, in his poem of the
Cherwell Water Lily. This poem his now become scarce, so I send you the lines to which I refer,
as the "summary of epithets" which they contain, as {652} well as their intrinsic beauty, render
them worthy of notice:

 "I heard the raptured nightingale,
  Tell from yon elmy grove, his tale
    Of jealousy and love,
  In thronging notes that seem'd to fall,
  As faultless and as musical,
    As angels' strains above.
  So sweet, they cast on all things round,
  A spell of melody profound:
  They charm'd the river in his flowing,
  They stay'd the night-wind in its blowing,
  They lull'd the lily to her rest,
  Upon the Cherwell's heaving breast."

To those interested in this subject, so full of historical and classical, as well as poetical
associations, I would mention that a late Master of Caius College, Cambridge, the Rev. Dr.
Davy, printed some years since, for private circulation, a small pamphlet entitled Observations
on Mr. Fox's Letter to Mr. Grey, in which he refutes that eminent statesman's theory of the
merry note of the nightingale. This pamphlet is so full of elegance and classical research,
that it is much to be regretted, not only that it has never been published, but that it is
the only work of the learned author--the friend and associate of Porson, of Parr, and of Maltby.
I possess a presentation copy, which, as only a very few copies were printed, I would gladly
lend to any of your readers interested in this curious and long-pending controversy.

NORRIS DECK.

Cambridge.

Add to the already long list, this from Spenser:

 "That blessed bird, that spends her time of sleep
  In songs and plaintive pleas, the more t'augment
  The memory of his misdeed that bred her woe."

H. GARDINER.

Inscriptions in Books (Vol. viii., p. 64. &c.).--John Bostock, sometime Abbat of St. Alban's,
gave some valuable books to the library of Gloucester Hall, Oxford, with these lines in the
commencement:

 "Quem si quis rapiat raptìm, titulumve retractet,
  Vel Judæ laqueum, vel furcas sentiat.   Amen."

ANON.

Door-head Inscription (Vol. viii., p. 454.).--A friend has kindly sent me an improved version
of the inscription over the gate of the Apostolical Chancery, which, with his permission, I
beg to forward to you:--

 "Fide Deo, dic sæpe preces, peccare caveto,
  Sis humilis, pacem dilige, magna fuge,
  Multa audi, dic pauca, tace abdita, scito minori
  Parcere, majori cedere, ferre parem,
  Propria fac, persolve fidem, sis æquus egenis,
  Parta tuere, pati disce, memento mori."

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Fogie (Vol. viii., pp. 154. 256.).--In the citadel of Plymouth, some twenty or twenty-five
years since, there was a band of old soldiers (principally men of small stature) who went by
this name. They were said to be the only men acquainted with all the windings and outlets of
the subterranean passages of this fortification.

The cognomen "old fogie" is in this neighbourhood frequently applied to old men remarkable
for shrewdness, cunning, quaintness, or eccentricity. This use of the term is evidently figurative,
borrowed from its application to veteran soldiers. Cannot some of the military correspondents
of "N. & Q." give the origin of the word?

ISAIAH W. N. KEYS.

Plymouth.

Sir W. Hewet (Vol. viii., p. 270.).--MR. GRIFFITH will find in Thoresby's Ducatus Leodinensis,
p. 2. (Whittaker's edit.), a pedigree of the family of Osborne, which gives two generations
previous to Edward Osborne, who married Ann Hewet, namely,--

Richard Osborne, who married Elizabeth, daughter of ---- Fyldene, by whom he had Richard, who
married Jane, daughter of John Broughton of Broughton, Esq., and sister and heir to Edward
and Lancelyn Broughton.

Sir Edward Osborne, Knight, Citizen, and Lord Mayor of London (1582), who died in 1591, married
Ann, daughter and sole heir of Sir William Hewet, Lord Mayor of London, 1559, by whom he had
Sir Hewet Osborne, born 1567, died 1614. Sir Edward had a second wife, Margaret, daughter of
----, who died in 1602.

There is a note at the bottom of the page, quoted from a MS. in the College of Arms, E 1. fol.
190., "That this descent was registered the 30th March, 1568, when Hewet Osborne was the age
of one year and ... days."

EDWARD PEACOCK.

Bottesford Moors, Kirton in Lindsey.

Ladies' Arms borne in a Lozenge (Vol. viii., pp. 37. 83. 277. 329.).--The difference between
the fusil and the lozenge is well known to all heralds, though coach-painters and silversmiths
do not {653} always sufficiently describe it. If BROCTUNA, however, be a practical herald,
he must often have experienced the difficulty of placing impalements or quarterings correctly,
even on a lozenge. On the long and narrow fusil it would be impossible. When the fusil, instead
of being a mere heraldic bearing, has to be used as the shape of a shield for the actual use
of the painter or engraver, it must of necessity be widened into the lozenge; and as the latter
is probably only the same distaff with little more wool upon it, there seems no objection to
the arrangement. BROCTUNA is too good an antiquary not to know on recollection that the "vyings
of widows" had little to do with funeral arrangements in those days. Procrustes, the herald,
came down at all great funerals, and regulated everything with just so much pomp, and no more,
as the precise rank of the deceased entitled him to.

P. P. had not the smallest intention of giving BROCTUNA offence by pointing out what seems
a fatal objection to his theory.

Hugh Clark, a well-known modern writer upon Heraldry, gives the following definition of the
word lozenge:

    "Lozenge, a four-cornered figure, resembling a pane of glass in old
    casements: some suppose it a physical composition given for colds, and
    was invented to reward eminent physicians."

Plutarch says, in the Life of Theseus, that at Megara, an ancient town of Greece, the tombstones,
under which the bodies of the Amazons lay, were shaped after that form, which some conjecture
to be the cause why ladies have their arms on lozenges.

RUBY.

The Crescent (Vol. viii., p. 319.).--Be so good as to insert in "N. & Q.," for the information
of J. W. THOMAS, that the Iceni (a people of England, whose territory consisted of the counties
of Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex, &c.) struck coins both in gold and silver; having on their reverses
crescents placed back to back generally, except where a rude profile is on a few of them.

Two of the gold coins have fallen into my possession; one of which, found at Oxnead in this
county, I supplied to the British Museum some years since. Twelve of the silver coins are figured
on a plate in Part LVII. of the Numismatic Chronicle. MR. THOMAS observing (at p. 321.) he
has no work on numismatics, induces me to make this communication to him through your very
useful and instructive publication.

GODDARD JOHNSON.

Norfolk.

