I must now speak of my mother. 'In one's whole life,' says Gray, 'one can never have any more
than a single mother'--a trite observation, he adds, which yet he never discovered till it
was too late. Those who have made the same discovery must feel also how impossible it is to
communicate to others their own experience, and indeed how painful it is even to make the attempt.
Almost every man's mother, one is happy to observe, is the best of mothers. I will only assert
what I could prove by evidence other than my own impressions. My mother, then, must have been
a very handsome young woman. A portrait--not a very good one--shows that she had regular features
and a fine complexion, which she preserved till old age. Her beauty was such as implies a thoroughly
good constitution and unbroken health. She was too a rather romantic young lady. She knew by
heart all such poetry as was not excluded from the sacred common; she could repeat Cowper and
Wordsworth and Campbell and Scott, and her children learnt the 'Mariners of England' and the
'Death of Marmion' from her lips almost before they could read for themselves. She accepted,
of course, the religious opinions of her family, but in what I may call a comparatively mild
form. If she had not the humour of her brother Henry and her sister Emelia, she possessed an
equal amount of common sense. Her most obvious characteristic as I knew her was a singular
serenity, which indicated a union of strong affection and sound judgment with an entire absence
of any morbid tendencies. Her devotion to her husband and children may possibly have influenced
her estimate of their virtues and talents. But however strong her belief in them, it never
betrayed her to partiality of conduct. We were as sure of her justice as of her affection.
Her servants invariably became attached to her. Our old nurse, Elizabeth Francis, lived with
us for forty-three years, and her death in 1865 was felt as a deep family sorrow. The quaint
Yorkshire cook, whose eccentricities had given trouble and whose final parting had therefore
been received with equanimity on the eve of a journey abroad, was found calmly sitting in our
kitchen when we returned, and announcing, truly as it turned out, that she proposed to stay
during the rest of my mother's life. But this domestic loyalty was won without the slightest
concession of unusual privileges. Her characteristic calmness appeared in another way. She
suffered the heaviest of blows in the death of her husband, after forty-five years of unbroken
married happiness, and of her eldest son. On both occasions she recovered her serenity and
even cheerfulness with marked rapidity, not certainly from any want of feeling, but from her
constitutional incapacity for dwelling uselessly upon painful emotions. She had indeed practised
cheerfulness as a duty in order to soothe her husband's anxieties, and it had become part of
her character. The moral equilibrium of her nature recovered itself spontaneously as wounds
cure by themselves quickly in thoroughly sound constitutions. She devoted her spare time in
earlier years and almost her whole time in later life to labours among the poor, but was never
tempted to mere philanthropic sentimentalism. A sound common sense, in short, was her predominant
faculty; and, though her religious sentiments were very strong and deep, she was so far from
fanatical that she accepted with perfect calmness the deviations of her children from the old
orthodox faith. My brother held, rightly as I think, that he inherited a large share of these
qualities. To my father himself, the influence of such a wife was of inestimable value. He,
the most nervous, sensitive of men, could always retire to the serene atmosphere of a home
governed by placid common sense and be soothed by the gentlest affection. How necessary was
such a solace will soon be perceived.

V. JAMES STEPHEN, COLONIAL UNDER-SECRETARY

The young couple began prosperously enough. My father's business was increasing; and after
the peace they spent some summer vacations in visits to the continent. They visited Switzerland,
still unhackneyed, though Byron and Shelley were celebrating its charms. Long afterwards I
used to hear from my mother of the superlative beauties of the Wengern Alp and the Staubbach
(though she never, I suspect, read 'Manfred'), and she kept up for years a correspondence with
a monk of the hospital on the St. Bernard. Her first child, Herbert Venn Stephen, was born
September 30, 1822; and about this time a change took place in my father's position. He had
a severe illness, caused, it was thought, by over-work. He had for a time to give up his chancery
business and then to consider whether he should return to it and abandon the Colonial Office,
or give up the bar to take a less precarious position now offered to him in the office. His
doubts of health and his new responsibilities as a father decided him. On January 25, 1825,
he was appointed Counsel to the Colonial Office, and on August 2 following Counsel to the Board
of Trade, receiving 1,500l. a year for the two offices, and abandoning his private practice.
A daughter, Frances Wilberforce, was born on September 8, 1824, but died on July 22 following.
A quaint portrait in which she is represented with her elder brother, in a bower of roses,
is all that remains to commemorate her brief existence. For some time Herbert was an only son;
and a delicate constitution made his education very difficult. My father hit upon the most
successful of several plans for the benefit of his children when, at the beginning of 1829,
he made arrangements under which Frederick Waymouth Gibbs became an inmate of our family in
order to give my brother a companion. Although this plan was changed three years later, Frederick
Gibbs became, as he has ever since remained, a kind of adopted brother to us, and was in due
time in the closest intimacy with my brother James Fitzjames.

After his acceptance of the permanent appointment my father's energies were for twenty-two
years devoted entirely to the Colonial Office. I must dwell at some length upon his character
and position, partly for his sake and partly because it is impossible without understanding
them to understand my brother's career.

My brother's whole life was profoundly affected, as he fully recognised, by his father's influence.
Fitzjames prefixed a short life of my father to a posthumous edition of the 'Essays in Ecclesiastical
Biography.' The concluding sentence is significant of the writer's mood. 'Of Sir James Stephen's
private life and character,' he says, 'nothing is said here, as these are matters with which
the public has no concern, and on which the evidence of his son would not be impartial.' My
brother would, I think, have changed that view in later years. I, at any rate, do not feel
that my partiality, whatever it may be, is a disqualification for attempting a portrait. And,
though the public may have no right to further knowledge, I think that such part of the public
as reads these pages may be the better for knowing something more of a man of whom even a son
may say that he was one of the conspicuously good and able men of his generation.

The task, however, is no easy one. His character, in the first place, is not one to be defined
by a single epithet. 'Surely,' said his friend Sir Henry Taylor to him upon some occasion,
'the simple thing to do is so and so.' He answered doubtfully, adding, 'The truth is I am not
a simple man.' 'No,' said Taylor, 'you are the most composite man that I have met with in all
my experience of human nature.'[31] Taylor entered the Colonial Office in the beginning of
1824, and soon formed an intimate and lifelong friendship with his colleague. His autobiography
contains some very vivid records of the impression made by my father's character upon a very
fine observer in possession of ample opportunities for knowledge. It does something, though
less than I could wish, to diminish another difficulty which encounters me. My father's official
position necessarily throws an impenetrable veil over the work to which his main energies were
devoted. His chief writings were voluminous and of great practical importance: but they repose
in the archives of the Colonial Office; and even such despatches of his as have seen the light
are signed by other names, and do not necessarily represent his opinions. 'The understanding,'
says my brother in the 'Life,' 'upon which permanent offices in the civil service of the Crown
are held is that those who accept them shall give up all claim to personal reputation on the
one hand and be shielded from personal responsibility on the other.' Of this compact, as Fitzjames
adds, neither my father nor his family could complain. His superiors might sometimes gain credit
or incur blame which was primarily due to the adoption of his principles. He was sometimes
attacked, on the other hand, for measures attributed to his influence, but against which he
had really protested, although he was precluded from any defence of his conduct. To write the
true history of our colonial policy in his time would be as much beyond my powers as it is
outside my purpose; to discriminate his share in it would probably be now impossible for anyone.
I can only take a few hints from Sir Henry Taylor and from my brother's account which will
sufficiently illustrate some of my father's characteristics.

'For a long period,' says Taylor,[32] 'Stephen might better have been called the "Colonial
Department" itself than "Counsel to the Colonial Department."' During Lord Glenelg's tenure
of office (1835-1839), and for many years before and after, 'he literally ruled the Colonial
empire.'[33] This involved unremitting labour. Taylor observes that Stephen 'had an enormous
appetite for work,' and 'rather preferred not to be helped. I,' he adds, humorously, 'could
make him perfectly welcome to any amount of it.' For years he never left London for a month,
and, though in the last five years preceding his retirement in 1847, he was absent for rather
longer periods, he took a clerk with him and did business in the country as regularly as in town.

His duties were of the most various kind. The colonies, as my brother observes, were a collection
of states varying from youthful nations like Canada down to a small settlement of Germans on
the rock of Heligoland; their populations differed in race, laws, religion, and languages;
the authority of the Crown varied from absolute power over an infant settlement to supremacy
over communities in some essential respects independent. My father's duty was to be familiar
with every detail of these complicated relations, to know the state of parties and local politics
in each colony, and to be able to advise successive Secretaries of State who came without special
preparation to the task. He had to prepare drafts of all important despatches and of the numerous
Acts of Parliament which were required during a period of rapid and important changes. 'I have
been told,' says my brother, elsewhere,[34] that 'he was a perfectly admirable Under-Secretary
of State, quick, firm, courageous, and a perfect master of his profession and of all the special
knowledge which his position required, and which, I believe, no other man in England possessed
to anything like the same extent.'

A man of long experience, vast powers of work, and decided views naturally obtained great influence
with his superiors; and that such an influence was potent became generally believed among persons
interested in and often aggrieved by the policy of the Government. Stephen was nicknamed as
'King Stephen,' or 'Mr. Over-Secretary Stephen,' or 'Mr. Mother-Country Stephen.' The last
epithet, attributed to Charles Buller, meant that when the colonies were exhorted to pay allegiance
to the mother country they were really called upon to obey the irrepressible Under-Secretary.
I dimly divine, though I am not much of a politician, that there is an advantage in criticising
the permanent official in a department. He cannot answer an attack upon him, and it is also
an attack upon the superior who has yielded to his influence. At any rate, though my father
received the warmest commendation from his official superiors, he acquired a considerable share
of unpopularity. For this there were other reasons, of which I shall presently speak.

Little as I can say of the details of this policy in which he was concerned, there are one
or two points of which I must speak. My father had accepted the appointment, according to Taylor,
partly with the view of gaining an influence upon the slavery question. In this, says Taylor,
he was eminently successful, and his success raised the first outcry against him.[35] His family
and friends were all, as I have shown, deeply engaged in the anti-slavery agitation. As an
official he could of course take no part in such action, and his father had to give solemn
assurances that the son had given him no information. But the power of influencing the Government
in the right direction was of equal importance to the cause. The elaborate Act, still in force,
by which previous legislation against the slave trade was finally consolidated and extended
was passed in 1824 (5 George IV. cap. 113). It was drawn by my father and dictated by him in
one day and at one sitting.[36] It fills twenty-three closely printed octavo pages. At this
time the Government was attempting to adopt a middle course between the abolitionists and the
planters by passing what were called 'meliorating Acts,' Acts, that is, for improving the treatment
of the slaves. The Colonial Assemblies declined to accept the proposals. The Colonial Office
remonstrated, obtained reports and wrote despatches, pointing out any abuses discovered: the
despatches were laid before Parliament and republished by Zachary Macaulay in the 'Anti-slavery
Reporter.' Agitation increased. An insurrection of slaves in Jamaica in 1831, cruelly suppressed
by the whites, gave indirectly a death blow to slavery. Abolition, especially after the Reform
Bill, became inevitable, but the question remained whether the grant of freedom should be immediate
or gradual, and whether compensation should be granted to the planters. The problem had been
discussed by Stephen, Taylor, and Lord Howick, afterwards Earl Grey (1802-1894), and various
plans had been considered. In March 1833, however, Mr. Stanley, afterwards Lord Derby, became
head of the Colonial Office; and the effect was at first to reduce Stephen and Taylor to their
'original insignificance.' They had already been attacked in the press for taking too much
upon themselves, and Stanley now prepared a measure without their assistance. He found that
he had not the necessary experience for a difficult task, and was soon obliged to have recourse
to Stephen, who prepared the measure which was finally passed. The delay had made expedition
necessary if slavery was not to continue for another year. My father received notice to draw
the Act on Saturday morning. He went home and completed his task by the middle of the day on
Monday. The Act (3 & 4 William IV. c. 73) contains sixty-six sections, fills twenty-six pages
in the octavo edition of the Statute-book, and creates a whole scheme of the most intricate
and elaborate kind. The amanuensis to whom it was dictated used to tell the story as an illustration
of his own physical powers. At that time, as another clerk in the office tells my brother,
'it was no unusual thing for your father to dictate before breakfast as much as would fill
thirty sides of office folio paper,' equal to about ten pages of the 'Edinburgh Review,' The
exertion, however, in this instance was exceptional: only upon one other occasion did my father
ever work upon a Sunday; it cost him a severe nervous illness and not improbably sowed the
seed of later attacks.[37]

I can say little of my father's action in later years. On September 17, 1834, he was appointed
to the newly created office of Assistant Under-Secretary of State. He had, says Taylor, for
many years done the work of the Under-Secretary, and he objected to doing it any longer on
the same terms. The Under-Secretary complained to Lord Melbourne that his subordinate desired
to supplant him, and got only the characteristic reply, 'It looks devilishly like it.'[38]
In 1836 he had to retire, and my father became Under-Secretary in his place, with a salary
of 2,000l. a year, on February 4 of that year, and at the same time gave up his connection
with the Board of Trade. He was actively concerned in the establishment of responsible government
in Canada. The relations with that colony were, as my brother says, 'confused and entangled
in every possible way by personal and party questions at home and by the violent dissensions
which existed in Canada itself.' The difficulty was aggravated, he adds, by the fact that my
father, whatever his personal influence, had no authority whatever; and although his principles
were ultimately adopted he had constantly to take part in measures which he disapproved. 'Stephen's
opinions,' says Taylor, 'were more liberal than those of most of his chiefs, and at one period
he gave more power than he intended to a Canadian Assembly from placing too much confidence
in their intentions.'[39] Upon this matter, however, Taylor admits that he was not fully informed.
It was a not unlikely result of exercising a great and yet occult influence upon a department
of Government which is likely in any case to be more conspicuous for its failures than for
its successes. There were, however, more personal reasons which I think indicate his peculiar
characteristics. I have said enough to illustrate his gluttony of work. I should guess that,
without intending it, he was also an exacting superior. He probably over-estimated the average
capacity for work of mankind, and condemned their indolence too unsparingly. Certainly his
estimate of the quantity of good work got out of officials in a public office was not a high
one. Nor, I am sure, did he take a sanguine view of the utility of such work as was done in
the Colonial Office. 'Colonial Office being an Impotency' (as Carlyle puts it in his 'Reminiscences,'
'as Stephen inarticulately, though he never said or whispered it, well knew), what could an
earnest and honest kind of man do but try to teach you how not to do it?'[41] I fancy that
this gives in Carryle's manner the unpleasant side of a true statement. My father gave his
whole life to work, which he never thought entirely satisfactory, although he did his duty
without a word of complaint. Once, when advising Taylor to trust rather to literature than
to Government employment, he remarked, 'You may write off the first joints of your fingers
for them, and then you may write off the second joints, and all that they will say of you is,
"What a remarkably short-fingered man!"'[42] But he had far too much self-respect to grumble
at the inevitable results of the position.

My father, however, was a man of exquisitely sensitive nature--a man, as my mother warned his
children, 'without a skin,' and he felt very keenly the attacks of which he could take no notice.
In early days this had shown itself by a shyness 'remarkable,' says Taylor, beyond all 'shyness
that you could imagine in anyone whose soul had not been pre-existent in a wild duck.'[43]
His extreme sensibility showed itself too in other ways. He was the least sanguine of mankind.
He had, as he said in a letter, 'a morbidly vivid perception of possible evils and remote dangers.'
A sensitive nature dreads nothing so much as a shock, and instinctively prepares for it by
always anticipating the worst. He always expected, if I may say so, to be disappointed in his
expectations. The tendency showed itself in a general conviction that whatever was his own
must therefore be bad. He could not bear to have a looking-glass in his room lest he should
be reminded of his own appearance. 'I hate mirrors vitrical and human,' he says, when wondering
how he might appear to others. He could not bear that his birthday should be even noticed,
though he did not, like Swift, commemorate it by a remorseful ceremonial. He shrank from every
kind of self-assertion; and in matters outside his own province often showed to men of abilities
very inferior to his own a deference which to those who did not know him might pass for affectation.
The life of a recluse had strong attractions for him. He was profoundly convinced that the
happiest of all lives was that of a clergyman, who could devote himself to study and to the
quiet duties of his profession. Circumstances had forced a different career upon him. He had
as a very young man taken up a profession which is not generally supposed to be propitious
to retiring modesty; and was ever afterwards plunged into active business, which brought him
into rough contact with politicians and men of business of all classes. The result was that
he formed a manner calculated to shield himself and keep his interlocutors at a distance. It
might be called pompous, and was at any rate formal and elaborate. The natural man lurked behind
a barrier of ceremony, and he rarely showed himself unless in full dress. He could unbend in
his family, but in the outer world he put on his defensive armour of stately politeness, which
even for congenial minds made familiarity difficult if it effectually repelled impertinence.
But beneath this sensitive nature lay an energetic and even impetuous character, and an intellect
singularly clear, subtle, and decisive. His reasons were apt to be complicated, but he came
to very definite results, and was both rapid and resolute in action. He had 'a strong will,'
says Taylor, 'and great tenacity of opinion. When he made a mistake, which was very seldom
considering the prodigious quantity of business he despatched, his subordinates could rarely
venture to point it out; he gave them so much trouble before he could be evicted from his error.'
In private life, as Taylor adds, his friends feared to suggest any criticisms; not because
he resented advice but because he suffered so much from blame.

Another peculiarity was oddly blended with this. Among his topics of self-humiliation, sufficiently
frequent, one was his excess of 'loquacity.' A very shy man, it is often remarked, may shrink
from talking, but when he begins to talk he talks enormously. My father, at any rate, had a
natural gift for conversation. He could pour out a stream of talk such as, to the best of my
knowledge, I have never heard equalled. The gift was perhaps stimulated by accidents. The weakness
of his eyes had forced him to depend very much upon dictation. I remember vividly the sound
of his tread as he tramped up and down his room, dictating to my mother or sister, who took
down his words in shorthand and found it hard to keep pace with him. Even his ordinary conversation
might have been put into print with scarcely a correction, and was as polished and grammatically
perfect as his finished writing. The flow of talk was no doubt at times excessive. Taylor tells
of an indignant gentleman who came to his room after attempting to make some communication
to the Under-Secretary. Mr. Stephen, he said, had at once begun to speak, and after discoursing
for half an hour without a moment's pause, courteously bowed the gentleman out, thanking him
for the valuable information which still remained unuttered. Sir James Stephen, said Lord Monteagle
to Carlyle, 'shuts his eyes on you and talks as if he were dictating a colonial despatch.'[44]
This refers to a nervous trick of shyness. When talking, his eyelids often had a tremulous
motion which concealed the eyes themselves, and gave to at least one stranger the impression
that he was being addressed by a blind man.

The talk, however, was always pointed and very frequently as brilliant as it was copious. With
all the monotony of utterance, says Taylor, 'there was such a variety and richness of thought
and language, and often so much wit and humour, that one could not help being interested and
attentive.' On matters of business, he adds, 'the talk could not be of the same quality and
was of the same continuity.' He gives one specimen of the 'richness of conversational diction'
which I may quote. My father mentioned to Taylor an illness from which the son of Lord Derby
was suffering. He explained his knowledge by saying that Lord Derby had spoken of the case
to him in a tone for which he was unprepared. 'In all the time when I saw him daily I cannot
recollect that he ever said one word to me about anything but business; and when the stupendous
glacier, which had towered over my head for so many years, came to dissolve and descend upon
me in parental dew, you may imagine, &c., &c.[45] My brother gives an account to which I can
fully subscribe, so far as my knowledge goes. Our father's printed books, he says, show his
mind 'in full dress, as under restraint and subject to the effect of habitual self-distrust.
They give no idea of the vigour and pungency and freedom with which he could speak or let himself
loose or think aloud as he did to me. Macaulay was infinitely more eloquent, and his memory
was a thing by itself. Carlyle was striking and picturesque, and, after a fashion, forcible
to the last degree. John Austin discoursed with the greatest dignity and impressiveness. But
my father's richness of mind and union of wisdom, good sense, keenness and ingenuity, put him,
in my opinion, quite on the same sort of level as these distinguished men; and gave me a feeling
about him which attuned itself with and ran into the conviction that he was also one of the
very kindest, most honourable, and best men I ever knew in my whole life.' From my recollection,
which is less perfect than was my brother's, I should add that one thing which especially remains
with me was the stamp of fine literary quality which marked all my father's conversation. His
talk, however copious, was never commonplace; and, boy as I was when I listened, I was constantly
impressed by the singular skill with which his clear-cut phrases and lively illustrations put
even familiar topics into an apparently new and effective light.

The comparison made by my brother between my father's talk and his writings may be just, though
I do not altogether agree with it. The 'Essays in Ecclesiastical Biography,' by which he is
best known, were written during the official career which I have described.

The composition was to him a relaxation, and they were written early in the morning or late
at night, or in the intervals of his brief holidays. I will not express any critical judgment
of their qualities; but this I will say: putting aside Macaulay's 'Essays,' which possess merits
of an entirely different order, I do not think that any of the collected essays republished
from the 'Edinburgh Review' indicate a natural gift for style equal to my father's. Judging
from these, which are merely the overflowing of a mind employed upon other most absorbing duties,
I think that my father, had he devoted his talents to literature, would have gained a far higher
place than has been reached by any of his family.[46]

My father gave in his Essays a sufficient indication of his religious creed. That creed, while
it corresponded to his very deepest emotions, took a peculiar and characteristic form. His
essay upon the 'Clapham Sect'[47] shows how deeply he had imbibed its teaching, while it yet
shows a noticeable divergence. All his youthful sympathies and aims had identified him with
the early evangelicals. As a lad he had known Granville Sharp, the patriarch of the anti-slavery
movement; and till middle life he was as intimate as the difference of ages permitted with
Wilberforce and with Thomas Gisborne, the most refined if not most effective preacher of the
party. He revered many of the party from the bottom of his heart. His loving remembrance of
his intercourse with them is shown in every line of his description, and to the end of his
life he retained his loyalty to the men, and, as he at least thought, to their creed. The later
generation, which called itself evangelical, repudiated his claim. He was attacked in their
chief organ. When some remonstrance was made by his brother-in-law, Henry Venn, he wrote to
the paper (I quote from memory), 'I can only regret that any friend of mine should have stooped
to vindicate me from any censure of yours'; and declined further controversy.

The occasion of this was an attack which had been made upon him at Cambridge, where certain
learned dons discovered on his appointment to the professorship of history that he was a 'Cerinthian.'
I do not pretend to guess at their meaning. Anyhow he had avowed, in an 'epilogue' to his Essays,
certain doubts as to the meaning of eternal damnation--a doctrine which at that time enjoyed
considerable popularity. The explanation was in part simple. 'It is laid to my charge,' he
said, 'that I am a Latitudinarian. I have never met with a single man who, like myself, had
passed a long series of years in a free intercourse with every class of society who was not
more or less what is called a Latitudinarian.' In fact, he had discovered that Clapham was
not the world, and that the conditions of salvation could hardly include residence on the sacred
common. This conviction, however, took a peculiar form in his mind. His Essays show how widely
he had sympathised with many forms of the religious sentiment. He wrote with enthusiasm of
the great leaders of the Roman Catholic Church; of Hildebrand and St. Francis, and even of
Ignatius Loyola; and yet his enthusiasm does not blind him to the merits of Martin Luther,
or Baxter, or Wesley, or Wilberforce. There were only two exceptions to his otherwise universal
sympathy. He always speaks of the rationalists in the ordinary tone of dislike; and he looks
coldly upon one school of orthodoxy. 'Sir James Stephen,' as was said by someone, 'is tolerant
towards every Church except the Church of England.' This epigram indicated a fact. Although
he himself strenuously repudiated any charge of disloyalty to the Church whose ordinances he
scrupulously observed, he was entirely out of sympathy with the specially Anglican movement
of later years. This was no doubt due in great part to the intensely strong sympathies of his
youth. When the Oxford movement began he was already in middle life and thoroughly steeped
in the doctrines which they attacked. He resembled them, indeed, in his warm appreciation of
the great men of Catholicism. But the old churchmen appealed both to his instincts as a statesman
and to his strong love of the romantic. The Church of the middle ages had wielded a vast power;
men like Loyola and Xavier had been great spiritual heroes. But what was to be said for the
Church of England since the Reformation? Henry Martyn, he says, in the 'Clapham Sect,' is 'the
one heroic name which adorns her annals since the days of Elizabeth. Her apostolic men either
quitted or were cast out of her communion. Her Acta Sanctorum may be read from end to end with
a dry eye and an unquickened pulse.' He had perhaps heard too many sermons. 'Dear Mother Church,'
he says after one such experience, 'thy spokesmen are not selected so as to create any danger
that we should be dazzled by human eloquence or entangled by human wisdom.' The Church of England,
as he says elsewhere ('Baxter'), afforded a refuge for three centuries to the great, the learned,
and the worldly wise, but was long before it took to the nobler end of raising the poor, and
then, as he would have added, under the influence of the Clapham Sect. The Church presented
itself to him mainly as the religious department of the State, in which more care was taken
to suppress eccentricity than to arouse enthusiasm; it was eminently respectable, but at the
very antipodes of the heroic. Could he then lean to Rome? He could not do so without damning
the men he most loved, even could his keen and in some ways sceptical intellect have consented
to commit suicide. Or to the Romanising party in the Church? The movement sprang from the cloister,
and he had breathed the bracing air of secular life. He was far too clear-headed not to see
whither they were tending. To him they appeared to be simply feeble imitations of the real
thing, dabbling with dangerous arguments, and trying to revive beliefs long sentenced to extinction.

And yet, with his strong religious beliefs, he could not turn towards the freethinkers. He
perceived indeed with perfect clearness that the Christian belief was being tried by new tests
severer than the old, and that schools of thought were arising with which the orthodox would
have to reckon. Occasional intimations to this effect dropped from him in his conversations
with my brother and others. But, on the whole, the simple fact was that he never ventured to
go deeply into the fundamental questions. His official duties left him little time for abstract
thought; and his surpassingly ingenious and versatile mind employed itself rather in framing
excuses for not answering than in finding thorough answers to possible doubts. He adopted a
version of the doctrine crede ut intelligas, and denounced the mere reasoning machines like
David Hume who appealed unequivocally to reason. But what the faculty was which was to guide
or to overrule reason in the search for truth was a question to which I do not think that he
could give any distinct answer. He was too much a lover of clearness to be attracted by the
mysticism of Coleridge, and yet he shrank from the results of seeing too clearly.

I have insisted upon this partly because my father's attitude greatly affected my brother,
as will be presently seen. My brother was not a man to shrink from any conclusions, and he
rather resented the humility which led my father, in the absence of other popes, to attach
an excessive importance to the opinions of Henry and John Venn--men who, as Fitzjames observes,
were, in matters of speculative inquiry, not worthy to tie his shoes. Meanwhile, as his health
became weaker in later years, my father seemed to grow more weary of the secular world, and
to lean more for consolation under anxiety to his religious beliefs. Whatever doubts or tendencies
to doubt might affect his intellect, they never weakened his loyalty to his creed. He spoke
of Christ, when such references were desirable, in a tone of the deepest reverence blended
with personal affection, which, as I find, greatly impressed my brother. Often, in his letters
and his talk, he would dwell upon the charm of a pious life, free from secular care and devoted
to the cultivation of religious ideals in ourselves and our neighbours. On very rare occasions
he would express his real feelings to companions who had mistaken his habitual reserve for
indifference. We had an old ivory carving, left to him in token of gratitude by a gentleman
whom he had on some such occasion solemnly reproved for profane language, and who had at the
moment felt nothing but irritation.

The effect of these tendencies upon our little domestic circle was marked. My father's occupations
naturally brought him into contact with many men of official and literary distinction. Some
of them became his warm friends. Besides Henry Taylor, of whom I have spoken, Taylor's intimate
friends, James Spedding and Aubrey de Vere, were among the intimates of our household; and
they and other men, younger than himself, often joined him in his walks or listened to his
overflowing talk at home. A next-door neighbour for many years was Nassau Senior, the political
economist, and one main author of the Poor Law of 1834. Senior, a very shrewd man of the world,
was indifferent to my father's religious speculations. Yet he and his family were among our
closest friends, and in habits of the most familiar intercourse with us. With them was associated
John Austin, regarded by all the Utilitarians as the profoundest of jurists and famous for
his conversational powers; and Mrs. Austin, a literary lady, with her daughter, afterwards
Lady Duff Gordon. I think of her (though it makes me feel old when I so think) as Lucy Austin.
She was a brilliant girl, reported to keep a rifle and a skull in her bedroom. She once startled
the sense of propriety of her elders by performing in our house a charade, in which she represented
a dying woman with a 'realism'--to use the modern phrase--worthy of Madame Sarah Bernhardt.
Other visitors were occasionally attracted. My father knew John Mill, though never, I fancy,
at all intimately. He knew politicians such as Charles Greville, the diarist, who showed his
penetration characteristically, as I have been told, by especially admiring my mother as a
model of the domestic virtues which he could appreciate from an outside point of view.

We looked, however, at the world from a certain distance, and, as it were, through a veil.
My father had little taste for general society. It had once been intimated to him, as he told
me, that he might find admission to the meetings of Holland House, where, as Macaulay tells
us, you might have the privilege of seeing Mackintosh verify a reference to Thomas Aquinas,
and hearing Talleyrand describe his ride over the field of Austerlitz. My father took a different
view. He declined to take advantage of this opening into the upper world, because, as he said,
I don't know from what experience, the conversation turned chiefly upon petty personal gossip.
The feasts of the great were not to his taste. He was ascetic by temperament. He was, he said,
one of the few people to whom it was the same thing to eat a dinner and to perform an act of
self-denial. In fact, for many years he never ate a dinner, contenting himself with a biscuit
and a glass of sherry as lunch, and an egg at tea, and thereby, as the doctors said, injuring
his health. He once smoked a cigar, and found it so delicious that he never smoked again. He
indulged in snuff until one day it occurred to him that snuff was superfluous; when the box
was solemnly emptied out of the window and never refilled. Long sittings after dinner were
an abomination to him, and he spoke with horror of his father's belief in the virtues of port
wine. His systematic abstemiousness diminished any temptation to social pleasures of the ordinary
kind. His real delight was in quieter meetings with his own family--with Stephens, and Diceys,
and Garratts, and above all, I think, with Henry and John Venn. At their houses, or in the
country walks where he could unfold his views to young men, whose company he always enjoyed,
he could pour out his mind in unceasing discourse, and be sure of a congenial audience.

Our household must thus be regarded as stamped with the true evangelical characteristics--and
yet with a difference. The line between saints and sinners or the Church and the world was
not so deeply drawn as in some cases. We felt, in a vague way, that we were, somehow, not quite
as other people, and yet I do not think that we could be called Pharisees. My father felt it
a point of honour to adhere to the ways of his youth. Like Jonadab, the son of Rechab, as my
brother observes, he would drink no wine for the sake of his father's commandments (which,
indeed, is scarcely a felicitous application after what I have just said). He wore the uniform
of the old army, though he had ceased to bear unquestioning allegiance. We never went to plays
or balls; but neither were we taught to regard such recreations as proofs of the corruption
of man. My father most carefully told us that there was nothing intrinsically wrong in such
things, though he felt strongly about certain abuses of them. At most, in his favourite phrase,
they were 'not convenient.' We no more condemned people who frequented them than we blamed
people in Hindostan for riding elephants. A theatre was as remote from us as an elephant. And
therefore we grew up without acquiring or condemning such tastes. They had neither the charm
of early association nor the attraction of forbidden fruit. To outsiders the household must
have been pervaded by an air of gravity, if not of austerity. But we did not feel it, for it
became the law of our natures, not a law imposed by external sanctions. We certainly had a
full allowance of sermons and Church services; but we never, I think, felt them to be forced
upon us. They were a part, and not an unwelcome part, of the order of nature. In another respect
we differed from some families of the same creed. My father's fine taste and his sensitive
nature made him tremblingly alive to one risk. He shrank from giving us any inducement to lay
bare our own religious emotions. To him and to our mother the needless revelation of the deeper
feelings seemed to be a kind of spiritual indelicacy. To encourage children to use the conventional
phrases could only stimulate to unreality or actual hypocrisy. He recognised, indeed, the duty
of impressing upon us his own convictions, but he spoke only when speaking was a duty. He read
prayers daily in his family, and used to expound a few verses of the Bible with characteristic
unction. In earlier days I find him accusing himself of a tendency to address 'homiletical
epistles' to his nearest connections; but he scrupulously kept such addresses for some adequate
occasion in his children's lives. We were, indeed, fully aware, from a very early age, of his
feelings, and could not but be continuously conscious that we were under the eye of a father
governed by the loftiest and purest motives, and devoting himself without stint to what he
regarded as his duty. He was a living 'categorical imperative.' 'Did you ever know your father
do a thing because it was pleasant?' was a question put to my brother, when he was a small
boy, by his mother. She has apparently recorded it for the sake of the childish answer: 'Yes,
once--when he married you.' But we were always conscious of the force of the tacit appeal.

I must not give the impression that he showed himself a stern parent. I remember that when
his first grandchild was born, I was struck by the fact that he was the most skilful person
in the family at playing with the baby. Once, when some friends upon whom he was calling happened
to be just going out, he said, 'Leave me the baby and I shall be quite happy.' Several little
fragments of letters with doggerel rhymes and anecdotes suited for children recall his playfulness
with infants, and as we grew up, although we learnt to regard him with a certain awe, he conversed
with us most freely, and discoursed upon politics, history, and literature, and his personal
recollections, as if we had been his equals, though, of course, with a width of knowledge altogether
beyond our own. The risk of giving pain to a 'skinless' man was all that could cause any reserve
between us; but a downright outspoken boy like my brother soon acquired and enjoyed a position
on the most affectionate terms of familiarity. We knew that he loved us; that his character
was not only pure but chivalrous; and that intellectually he was a most capable guide into
the most delightful pastures.

I will conclude by a word or two upon his physical characteristics. No tolerable likeness has
been preserved. My father was rather above middle height, and became stout in later years.
Though not handsome, his appearance had a marked dignity. A very lofty brow was surmounted
by masses of soft fine hair, reddish in youth, which became almost white before he died. The
eyes, often concealed by the nervous trick I have mentioned, were rather deeply set and of
the purest blue. They could flash into visibility and sparkle with indignation or softer emotion.
The nose was the nose of a scholar, rather massive though well cut, and running to a sharp
point. He had the long flexible lips of an orator, while the mouth, compressed as if cut with
a knife, indicated a nervous reserve. The skull was very large, and the whole face, as I remember
him, was massive, though in youth he must have been comparatively slender.

His health was interrupted by some severe illnesses, and he suffered much at times from headache.
His power of work, however, shows that he was generally in good health; he never had occasion
for a dentist. He was a very early riser, scrupulously neat in dress, and even fanatical in
the matter of cleanliness. He had beautiful but curiously incompetent hands. He was awkward
even at tying his shoes; and though he liked shaving himself because, he said, that it was
the only thing he could do with his hands, and he shaved every vestige of beard, he very often
inflicted gashes. His handwriting, however, was of the very best. He occasionally rode and
could, I believe, swim and row. But he enjoyed no physical exercise except walking, a love
of which was hereditary. I do not suppose that he ever had a gun or a fishing-rod in his hand.

And now, having outlined such a portrait as I can of our home, I begin my brother's life.[48]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: I learn by the courtesy of Mr. James Young Stephen that this James Stephen was
son of a previous James Stephen of Ardenbraught, whose brother Thomas was provost of Dundee
and died in 1728. James Stephen of Ardenbraught had a younger son John, who was great-grandfather
of the present Mr. Oscar Leslie Stephen. Mr. O. L. Stephen is father of Mr. James Young Stephen,
Mr. Oscar Leslie Stephen, junior, and Sir Alexander Condie Stephen, K.C.M.G.]

[Footnote 2: My friend, Professor Bonney, kindly refers me to Conybeare and Philips' Outlines
of Geology of England and Wales, p. 13, where there is an account of certain beds of lignite,
or imperfect coal, in the neighbourhood of Poole. They burn with an odour of bitumen, and,
no doubt, misled my great-grandfather. Geology was not even outlined in those days.]

[Footnote 3: 'Parleyings with Certain People'--Works (1889) xvi. 148-160.]

[Footnote 4: See Dictionary of National Biography.]

[Footnote 5: Redgrave's Dictionary of Painters.]

[Footnote 6: I have copies of two pamphlets in which these proceedings are described:--One
is entitled 'Considerations on Imprisonment for Debt, fully proving that the confining of the
bodies of debtors is contrary to Common Law, Magna Charta, Statute Law, Justice, Humanity,
and Policy; and that the practice is more cruel and oppressive than is used in the most arbitrary
kingdoms in Europe, with an account of various applications, &c.; by James Stephen, 1770.'
The other pamphlet, to which is prefixed a letter by W. Jackson, reprints some of Stephen's
letters from the New Jail, wants a title and is imperfect. See also the Annual Register for
1770 (Chronicle), November 19, for 1771 (Chronicle), January 31.]

[Footnote 7: That mentioned in the previous note. See also the 'Chronicle' of the Annual Register
for November 19, 1770, and January 31 and November 2, 1771.]

[Footnote 8: The children were William and James (already mentioned); Sibella, born about 1765,
afterwards married to William Maxwell Morison, editor of Decisions of Court of Session (1801-1818);
Hannah, born about 1767, afterwards married to William Farish (1759-1837), Jacksonian professor
at Cambridge; Elizabeth, born about 1769, afterwards married to her cousin, William Milner,
of Comberton, near Cambridge; and John, born about 1771.]

[Footnote 9: The parish register records his burial on September 9, 1779.]

[Footnote 10: See the trial reported by Gurney in 21 State Trials, pp. 486-651. It lasted from
8 A.M. on Monday till 5.15 A.M. on Tuesday morning.]

[Footnote 11: See Slavery Delineated (preface to vol. i.), where other revolting details are
given.]

[Footnote 12: Slavery Delineated, i. 54, 55.]

[Footnote 13: Sir George Stephen's Life of J. Stephen, p. 29.]

[Footnote 14: Reprinted in 13 Hansard's Debates, App. xxv.-cxxii.]

[Footnote 15: Hansard's Debates, June 20, 1814; and Abbot's Diary, ii. 503.]

[Footnote 16: It is now occupied by my friend Dr. Robert Liveing.]

[Footnote 17: For the life of my grandfather, I have relied upon his autobiography and upon
the following among other works: Life of the late James Stephen by his son, Sir George Stephen,
Victoria, 1875 (this little book, written when the author's memory was failing, is full of
singular mistakes, a fact which I mention that I may not be supposed to have overlooked the
statements in question but which it is needless to prove in detail); Jottings from Memory (two
interesting little pamphlets privately printed by Sir Alfred Stephen in 1889 and 1891); and
Wilberforce's Life and Letters (containing letters and incidental references). In Colquhoun's
Wilberforce, his Friends and his Times (1886), pp. 180-198, is an account of Stephen's relations
to Wilberforce, chiefly founded upon this. See also Roberts' Hannah More (several letters);
Brougham's Speeches (1838), i. pp. 402-414 (an interesting account partly quoted in Sir J.
Stephen's Clapham Sect, in Essays in Ecclesiastical Biography); Henry Adam's History of the
United States (1891), iii. pp. 50-52 and elsewhere; Walpole's Life of Perceval.]

[Footnote 18: He served also in 1842 upon a Commission of Inquiry into the forgery of Exchequer
bills.]

[Footnote 19: Serjeant Stephen's wife and a daughter died before him. He left two surviving
children: Sarah, a lady of remarkable ability, author of a popular religious story called Anna;
or, the Daughter at Home, and a chief founder of the 'Metropolitan Association for Befriending
Young Servants,' who died unmarried, aged 79, on January 5, 1895; and James, who edited some
of his father's books, was judge of the County Court at Lincoln, and died in November 1894.
A short notice of the serjeant is in the Law Times of December 24, 1894.]

[Footnote 20: Life of James Stephen, p. 36.]

[Footnote 21: By his wife, a Miss Ravenscroft, he had seven children, who all emigrated with
him. The eldest, James Wilberforce Stephen, was fourth wrangler in 1844 and Fellow of St. John's
College, and afterwards a judge in the colony of Victoria.]

[Footnote 22: His Constitution of a Christian Church (1846) was republished, in 1874, as Churches
the Many and the One, with additional notes by his son, the Rev. Samuel Garratt, now rector
of St. Margaret's, Ipswich, and canon of Norwich.]

[Footnote 23: Lectures, vol. i. preface.]

[Footnote 24: Preface to Slavery Delineated, i. pp. lix.-lxx. My grandfather takes some trouble
to show--and, as I think, shows conclusively--that the appointment mentioned in the text was
not a job, and that it involved a considerable saving of public money. But this matter will
interest no one at present.]

[Footnote 25: I have to thank Mr. Bryce, now President of the Board of Trade, for kindly procuring
me the dates of my father's official appointments.]

[Footnote 26: Communicated by my friend Mr. J. Dykes Campbell.]

[Footnote 27: My cousin, Dr. John Venn, informs me that the first traceable Venn was a farmer
in Broad Hembury, Devonshire, whose son, William Venn, was vicar of Otterton from 1599 to 1621.]

[Footnote 28: Henry Venn's Life, published by his grandson, Henry Venn, in 1834, has gone through
several editions.]

[Footnote 29: A short life of John Venn is prefixed to his Sermons. He married Catherine King
on October 22, 1789, and left seven children:--

   1. Catherine Eling, born Dec. 2, 1791, died unmarried,
        April 22, 1827.
   2. Jane Catherine, Lady Stephen, b. May 16, 1793,
        d. February 27, 1875.
   3. Emelia, b. April 20, 1795, d. Feb. 1881.
   4. Henry, b. February 10, 1796, d. January 13, 1873.
   5. Caroline, Mrs. Ellis Batten, b. 1799, d. Jan. 26, 1870.
   6. Maria, who died in infancy.
   7. John, b. April 17, 1801, d. May 12, 1890.]

[Footnote 30: Missionary Secretariat of Henry Venn, B.D., by the Rev. William Knight, with
introductory chapter by his sons the Rev. John Venn and the Rev. Henry Venn, 1880.]

[Footnote 31: Sir H. Taylor's Autobiography (1885), ii. 303. Taylor was b. October 18, 1800,
and d. October 31, 1886.]

[Footnote 32: Autobiography, i. 136.]

[Footnote 33: P. 233.]

[Footnote 34: Autobiographical fragment.]

[Footnote 35: Taylor, ii. 301.]

[Footnote 36: Stephen's History of the Criminal Law, iii. 256. My brother was generally accurate
in such statements, though I cannot quite resist the impression that he may at this time have
been under some confusion as to the time employed upon this occasion and the time devoted to
the Bill of 1833 to be mentioned directly.]

[Footnote 37: Taylor, i. 121-127. Sir Henry Taylor says that Stanley prepared a measure with
Sir James Graham which was introduced into the House of Commons and 'forthwith was blown into
the air.' I can find no trace of this in Hansard or elsewhere, and as Stanley only became Colonial
Secretary (March 28) six weeks before introducing the measure which passed, and no parliamentary
discussion intervened, I fancy that there must be some error. The facts as stated above seem
to be at any rate sufficiently proved by Taylor's contemporary letter. According to Taylor,
Stanley's great speech (May 14, 1833) upon introducing the Government measure was founded upon
my father's judicious cramming, and the success of the measure was due to Stephen's putting
his own design into enactments and Mr. Stanley's into a preamble. Taylor at the time thought
that my father had been ill treated, but I have not the knowledge necessary to form any opinion.
My brother's Life is the authority for the circumstances under which the measure was prepared,
and rests on sufficient evidence.]

[Footnote 38: Taylor, i. 233.]

[Footnote 39: Ibid. ii. 303.]

[Footnote 40: I think it right to notice that in the first edition of T. Mozley's Reminiscences
(1882), i. 111, there appeared an anecdote of my father in his official capacity which was
preposterous on the face of it. It was completely demolished in a letter written by my brother
which appeared in the Times of July 6, 1882, and withdrawn in a later edition.]

[Footnote 41: Reminiscences, ii. 224.]

[Footnote 42: Taylor, i. 235.]

[Footnote 43: Taylor, ii. 304.]

[Footnote 44: Reminiscences, ii. 223.]

[Footnote 45: Taylor, ii. 302.]

[Footnote 46: Some of my father's letters are given in Macvey Napier's correspondence. I think
that they are the best in a collection which includes letters from many of the most eminent
men of the time. A few others are in the collection of Sir H. Taylor's correspondence, edited
by Professor Dowden in 1888.]

[Footnote 47: The title, of course, was given by Sydney Smith.]

[Footnote 48: My father's children were:--

   1. Herbert Venn, b. September 30, 1822, d. October 22, 1846.

   2. Frances Wilberforce, b. September 8, 1824, d. July 22, 1825.

   3. James Fitzjames, b. March 3, 1829, d. March 11, 1894.

   4. Leslie, born November 28, 1832.

   5. Caroline Emelia, born December 8, 1834.]

CHAPTER II

EARLY LIFE

I. CHILDHOOD

In the beginning of 1829 my father settled in a house at Kensington Gore--now 42 Hyde Park
Gate. There his second son, James Fitzjames, was born on March 3, 1829. James was the name
upon which my grandfather insisted because it was his own. My father, because the name was
his own, objected as long as he could, but at last compounded, and averted the evil omen, by
adding Fitzjames. Two other children, Leslie and Caroline Emelia, were born in 1832 and 1834
at the same house. The Kensington of those days was still distinctly separate from London.
A high wall divided Kensington Gardens from the Hounslow Road; there were still deer in the
Gardens; cavalry barracks close to Queen's Gate, and a turnpike at the top of the Gloucester
Road. The land upon which South Kensington has since arisen was a region of market gardens,
where in our childhood we strolled with our nurse along genuine country lanes.

It would be in my power, if it were desirable, to give an unusually minute account of my brother's
early childhood. My mother kept a diary, and, I believe, never missed a day for over sixty
years. She was also in the habit of compiling from this certain family 'annals' in which she
inserted everything that struck her as illustrative of the character of her children. About
1884 my brother himself began a fragment of autobiography, which he continued at intervals
during the next two or three years. For various reasons I cannot transfer it as a whole to
these pages, but it supplies me with some very important indications.[49] A comparison with
my mother's contemporary account of the incidents common to both proves my brother's narrative
to be remarkably accurate. Indeed, though he disclaimed the possession of unusual powers of
memory in general, he had a singularly retentive memory for facts and dates, and amused himself
occasionally by exercising his faculty. He had, for example, a certain walking-stick upon which
he made a notch after a day's march; it served instead of a diary, and years afterwards he
would explain what was the particular expedition indicated by any one of the very numerous notches.

Although I do not wish to record trifles important only in the eyes of a mother, or interesting
only from private associations, I will give enough from these sources to illustrate his early
development; or rather to show how much of the later man was already to be found in the infant.
It requires perhaps some faith in maternal insight to believe that before he was three months
old he showed an uncommon power of 'amusing himself with his own thoughts,' and had 'a calm,
composed dignity in his countenance which was quite amusing in so young a creature.' It will
be more easily believed that he was healthy and strong, and by the age of six months 'most
determined to have his own way.' On August 15, 1830, Wilberforce was looking at the baby, when
he woke up, burst into a laugh, and exclaimed 'Funny!' a declaration which Wilberforce no doubt
took in good part, though it seems to have been interpreted as a reflection upon the philanthropist's
peculiar figure. My brother himself gives a detailed description of his grandfather from an
interview which occurred when the old gentleman was seventy-six and the infant very little
more than three years old. He remembers even the room and the precise position of the persons
present. He remembers too (and his mother's diary confirms the fact) how in the same year he
announced that the Reform Bill had 'passed.' It was 'a very fine thing,' he said, being in
fact a bill stuck upon a newsboy's hat, inscribed, as his nurse informed him, with the words
'Reform Bill.'

Although his memory implies early powers of observation, he did not show the precocity of many
clever children. He was still learning to read about his fifth birthday, and making, as his
mother complains, rather slow progress. But if not specially quick at his lessons, he gave
very early and, as it seems to me, very noticeable proofs of thoughtfulness and independence
of character. He was, as he remained through life, remarkable for that kind of sturdy strength
which goes with a certain awkwardness and even sluggishness. To use a modern phrase, he had
a great store of 'potential energy,' which was not easily convertible to purposes of immediate
application. His mind swarmed with ideas, which would not run spontaneously into the regulation
moulds. His mother's influence is perceptible in an early taste for poetry. In his third year
he learnt by heart 'Sir John Moore's Burial,' 'Nelson and the North,' Wordsworth's 'Address
to the Winds,' and Lord F. L. Gower's translation of Schiller ('When Jove had encircled this
planet with light') from hearing his brother's repetition. He especially delighted in this
bit of Schiller and in 'Chevy Chase,' though he resisted Watts' hymns. In the next two or three
years he learns a good deal of poetry, and on September 5, 1834, repeats fifty lines of Henry
the Fifth's speech before Agincourt without a fault. 'Pilgrim's Progress' and 'Robinson Crusoe'
are read in due course as his reading improves, and he soon delights in getting into a room
by himself and surrounding himself with books. His religious instruction of course began at
the earliest possible period, and he soon learnt by heart many simple passages of the Bible.
He made his first appearance at family prayers in November 1830, when the ceremony struck him
as 'funny,' but he soon became interested and was taught to pray for himself. In 1832 his elder
brother has nicknamed him the 'little preacher,' from his love of virtuous admonitions. In
1834 he confides to his mother that he has invented a prayer for himself which is 'not, you
know, a childish sort of invention'; and in 1835 he explains that he has followed the advice
given in a sermon (he very carefully points out that it was only advice, not an order) to pray
regularly. Avowals of this kind, however, have to be elicited from him by delicate maternal
questioning. He is markedly averse to any display of feeling. 'You should keep your love locked
up as I do' is a characteristic remark at the age of four to his eldest brother. The effect
of the religious training is apparently perceptible in a great tendency to self-analysis. His
thoughts sometimes turn to other problems;--in October, 1835, for example, he asks the question
which has occurred to so many thoughtful children,'How do we know that the world is not a dream?'--but
he is chiefly interested in his own motives. He complains in January 1834 that he has naughty
thoughts. His father tells him to send them away without even thinking about them. He takes
the advice, but afterwards explains that he is so proud of sending them away that he 'wants
to get them that he may send them away.' He objects to a reward for being good, because it
will make him do right from a wrong motive. He shrinks from compliments. In October 1835 he
leaves a room where some carpenters were at work because they had said something which he was
sorry to have heard. They had said, as it appeared upon anxious inquiry, that he would make
a good carpenter, and he felt that he was being cajoled. He remarks that even pleasures become
painful when they are ordered, and explains why his sixth birthday was disappointing; he had
expected too much.

His thoughtfulness took shapes which made him at times anything but easy to manage. He could
be intensely obstinate. The first conflict with authority took place on June 28, 1831, when
he resolutely declared that he would not say the 'Busy Bee.' This event became famous in the
nursery, for in September 1834 he has to express contrition for having in play used the words
'By the busy bee' as an infantile equivalent to an oath. One difficulty was that he declined
to repeat what was put into his mouth, or to take first principles in ethics for granted. When
his mother reads a text to him (May 1832), he retorts, 'Then I will not be like a little child;
I do not want to go to heaven; I would rather stay on earth.' He declines (in 1834) to join
in a hymn which expresses a desire to die and be with God. Even good people, he says, may prefer
to stay in this world. 'I don't want to be as good and wise as Tom Macaulay' is a phrase of
1832, showing that even appeals to concrete ideals of the most undeniable excellence fail to
overpower him. He gradually developed a theory which became characteristic, and which he obstinately
upheld when driven into a logical corner. A stubborn conflict arose in 1833, when his mother
was forced to put him in solitary confinement during the family teatime. She overhears a long
soliloquy in which he admits his error, contrasts his position with that of the happy who are
perhaps even now having toast and sugar, and compares his position to the 'last night of Pharaoh.'
'What a barbarian I am to myself!' he exclaims, and resolves that this shall be his last outbreak.
On being set at liberty, he says that he was naughty on purpose, and not only submits but requests
to be punished. For a short time he applies spontaneously for punishments, though he does not
always submit when the request is granted. But this is a concession under difficulties. His
general position is that by punishing him his mother only 'procures him to be much more naughty,'
and he declines as resolutely as Jeremy Bentham to admit that naughtiness in itself involves
unhappiness, or that the happiness of naughtiness should not be taken into account. He frequently
urges that it is pleasanter while it lasts to give way to temper, and that the discomfort only
comes afterwards. It follows logically, as he argues in 1835, that if a man could be naughty
all his life he would be quite happy. Some time later (1838) he is still arguing the point,
having now reached the conclusion to which the Emperor Constantine gave a practical application.
The desirable thing would be to be naughty all your life, and to repent just at the end.

These declarations are of course only interpolations in the midst of many more edifying though
less original remarks. He was exceedingly conscientious, strongly attached to his parents,
and very kind to his younger brother and sister. I note that when he was four years old he
already thought it, as he did ever afterwards, one of the greatest of treats to have a solitary
talk with his father. He was, however, rather unsociable and earned the nickname of 'Gruffian'
for his occasionally surly manner. This, with a stubborn disposition and occasional fits of
the sulks, must have made it difficult to manage a child who persisted in justifying 'naughtiness'
upon general principles. He was rather inclined to be indolent, and his mother regrets that
he is not so persevering as Frederick (Gibbs). His great temptation, he says himself, in his
childhood was to be 'effeminate and lazy,' and 'to justify these vices by intellectual and
religious excuses.' A great deal of this, he adds, has been 'knocked out of him'; he cannot
call himself a sluggard or a hypocrite, nor has he acted like a coward. 'Indeed,' he says,
'from my very infancy I had an instinctive dislike of the maudlin way of looking at things,'
and he remembers how in his fifth year he had declared that guns were not 'dreadful things.'
They were good if put to the proper uses. I do not think that there was ever much real 'effeminacy'
to be knocked out of him. It is too harsh a word for the slowness with which a massive and
not very flexible character rouses itself to action. His health was good, except for a trifling
ailment which made him for some time pass for a delicate child. But the delicacy soon passed
off and for the next fifty years he enjoyed almost unbroken health.

In 1836 he explains some bluntness of behaviour by an argument learnt from 'Sandford and Merton'
that politeness is objectionable. In August occurs a fit of obstinacy. He does not want to
be forgiven but to be 'happy and comfortable.' 'I do not feel sorry, for I always make the
best of my condition in every possible way, and being sorry would make me uncomfortable. That
is not to make the best of my condition.' His mother foresees a contest and remarks 'a daring
and hardened spirit which is not natural to him.' Soon after, I should perhaps say in consequence
of, these outbreaks he was sent to school. My mother's first cousin, Henry Venn Elliott, was
incumbent of St. Mary's Chapel at Brighton and a leading evangelical preacher. At Brighton,
too, lived his sister, Miss Charlotte Elliott, author of some very popular hymns and of some
lively verses of a secular kind. Fitzjames would be under their wing at Brighton, where Elliott
recommended a school kept by the Rev. B. Guest, at 7 Sussex Square. My mother took him down
by the Brighton coach, and he entered the school on November 10, 1836.[50] The school, says
Fitzjames, was in many ways very good; the boys were well taught and well fed. But it was too
decorous; there was no fighting and no bullying and rather an excess of evangelical theology.
The boys used to be questioned at prayers. Guest's eloquence about justification by faith seems
to have stimulated his pupil's childish speculations. He read a tract in which four young men
discuss the means of attaining holiness. One says, 'Meditate on the goodness of God'; a second,
'on the happiness of heaven'; a third, 'on the tortures of hell'; and a fourth, 'on the love
of Christ.' The last plan was approved in the tract; but Fitzjames thought meditation on hell
more to the purpose, and set about it deliberately. He imagined the world transformed into
a globe of iron, white hot, with a place in the middle made to fit him so closely that he could
not even wink. The globe was split like an orange; he was thrust by an angel into his place,
immortal, unconsumable, and capable of infinite suffering; and then the two halves were closed,
and he left in hideous isolation to suffer eternal torments. I guess from my own experience
that other children have had similar fancies. He adds, however, a characteristic remark. 'It
seemed to me then, as it seems now, that no stronger motive, no motive anything like so strong,
can be applied to actuate any human creature toward any line of conduct. To compare the love
of God or anything else is to my mind simply childish.' He refers to Mill's famous passage
about going to hell rather than worship a bad God, and asks what Mill would say after an experience
of a quarter of an hour. Fitzjames, however, did not dwell upon such fancies. They were merely
the childish mode of speculation by concrete imagery. He became more sociable, played cricket,
improved in health, and came home with the highest of characters as being the best and most
promising boy in the school. He rose steadily, and seems to have been thoroughly happy for
the next five years and a half.

In 1840 my mother observed certain peculiarities in me which she took at first to be indications
of precocious genius. After a time, however, she consulted an eminent physician, who informed
her that they were really symptoms of a disordered circulation. He added that I was in a fair
way to become feeble in mind and deformed in body, and strongly advised that I should be sent
to school, where my brain would be in less danger of injudicious stimulation. He declared that
even my life was at stake. My father, much alarmed, took one of his prompt decisions. He feared
to trust so delicate a child away from home, and therefore resolved to take a house in Brighton
for a year or two, from which I might attend my brother's school. The Kensington house was
let, and my mother and sister settled in Sussex Square, a few doors from Mr. Guest. My father,
unable to leave his work, took a lodging in town and came to Brighton for Sundays, or occasionally
twice a week. In those days the journey was still by coach. When the railway began running
in the course of 1841, I find my father complaining that it could not be trusted, and had yet
made all other modes of travelling impossible. 'How many men turned of fifty,' asks my brother,
'would have put themselves to such inconvenience, discomfort, and separation from their wives
for the sake of screening a delicate lad from some of the troubles of a carefully managed boarding
school?' My brother was not aware of the apparent gravity of the case when he wrote this. Such
a measure would have pushed parental tenderness to weakness had there been only a question
of comfort; but my father was seriously alarmed, and I can only think of his conduct with the
deepest gratitude.

To Fitzjames the plan brought the advantage that he became his father's companion in Sunday
strolls over the Downs. His father now found, as my mother's diary remarks, that he could already
talk to him as to a man, and Fitzjames became dimly aware that there were difficulties about
Mr. Guest's theology. He went with my father, too, to hear Mr. Sortaine, a popular preacher
whose favourite topic was the denunciation of popery. My father explained to the boy that some
able men really defended the doctrine of transubstantiation, and my brother, as he remarks,
could not then suspect that under certain conditions very able men like nonsense, and are even
not averse to 'impudent lying,' in defence of their own authority. Incidentally, too, my father
said that there were such people as atheists, but that such views should be treated as we should
treat one who insulted the character of our dearest friend. This remark, attributed to a man
who was incapable of insulting anyone, and was a friend of such freethinkers as Austin and
J. S. Mill, must be regarded as representing the impression made upon an inquisitive child
by an answer adapted to his capacity. The impression was, however, very strong, and my brother
notes that he heard it on a wettish evening on the cliff near the south end of the old Steine.

Fitzjames had discussed the merits of Mr. Guest's school with great intelligence and had expressed
a wish to be sent to Rugby. He had heard bad accounts of the state of Eton, and some rumours
of Arnold's influence had reached him. Arnold, someone had told him, could read a boy's character
at a glance. At Easter 1841, my father visited the Diceys at Claybrook, and thence took his
boy to see the great schoolmaster at Rugby. Fitzjames draws a little diagram to show how distinctly
he remembers the scene. He looked at the dark, grave man and wondered, 'Is he now reading my
character at a glance?' It does not appear that he was actually entered at Rugby, however,
and my father had presently devised another scheme. The inconveniences of the Brighton plan
had made themselves felt, and it now occurred to my father that he might take a house in Windsor
and send both Fitzjames and me to Eton. We should thus, he hoped, get the advantages of a public
school without being exposed to some of its hardships and temptations. He would himself be
able to live with his family, although, as things then were, he had to drive daily to and from
the Slough station, besides having the double journey from Paddington to Downing Street. We
accordingly moved to Windsor in Easter 1842. Fitzjames's last months at school had not been
quite so triumphant as the first, partly, it seems, from a slight illness, and chiefly for
the characteristic reason, according to his master, that he would occupy himself with 'things
too high for him.' He read solid works (I find mention of Carlyle's 'French Revolution') out
of school hours and walked with an usher to whom he took a fancy, discoursing upon absorbing
topics when he should have been playing cricket. Fitzjames left Brighton on the day, as he
notes, upon which one Mister was hanged for attempting murder--being almost the last man in
England hanged for anything short of actual murder. He entered Eton on April 15, 1842, and
was placed in the 'Remove,' the highest class attainable at his age.

II. ETON

The Eton period[51] had marked effects. Fitzjames owed, as he said, a debt of gratitude to
the school, but it was for favours which would have won gratitude from few recipients. The
boys at a public school form, I fancy, the most rigidly conservative body in existence. They
hate every deviation from the accepted type with the hatred of an ancient orthodox divine for
a heretic. The Eton boys of that day regarded an 'up-town boy' with settled contempt. His motives
or the motives of his parents for adopting so abnormal a scheme were suspect. He might be the
son of a royal footman or a prosperous tradesman in Windsor, audaciously aspiring to join the
ranks of his superiors, and if so, clearly should be made to know his place. In any case he
was exceptional, and therefore a Pariah, to associate with whom might be dangerous to one's
caste. Mr. Coleridge tells me that even the school authorities were not free from certain suspicions.
They wisely imagined, it appears, that my father had come among them as a spy, instigated,
no doubt, by some diabolical design of 'reforming' the school and desecrating the shrine of
Henry's holy shade. The poor man, already overpowered by struggling with refractory colonists
from Heligoland to New Zealand, was of malice prepense stirring up this additional swarm of
hornets. I can hardly suppose, however, that this ingenious theory had much influence. Mr.
Coleridge also says that the masters connived at the systematic bullying of the town boys.
I can believe that they did not systematically repress it. I must add, however, in justice
to my school-fellows, that my personal recollections do not reveal any particular tyranny.
Such bullying as I had to endure was very occasional, and has left no impression on my memory.
Yet I was far less capable than Fitzjames of defending myself, and can hardly have forgotten
any serious tormenting. The truth is that the difference between me and my brother was the
difference between the willow and the oak, and that I evaded such assaults as he met with open
defiance.

My brother, as has been indicated, was far more developed in character, if not in scholarship,
than is at all common at his age. His talks with my father and his own reading had familiarised
him with thoughts lying altogether beyond the horizon of the average boyish mind. He was thoughtful
beyond his years, although not conspicuously forward in the school studies. He was already
inclined to consider games as childish. He looked down upon his companions and the school life
generally as silly and frivolous. The boys resented his contempt of their ways; and his want
of sociability and rather heavy exterior at the time made him a natural butt for schoolboy
wit. He was, he says, bullied and tormented till, towards the end of his time, he plucked up
spirit to resist. Of the bullying there can be no doubt; nor (sooner or later) of the resistance.
Mr. Coleridge observes that he was anything but a passive victim, and turned fiercely upon
the ringleaders of his enemies. 'Often,' he adds, 'have I applauded his backhanders as the
foremost in the fray. He was only vanquished by numbers. His bill for hats at Sanders' must
have amounted to a stiff figure, for my visions of Fitzjames are of a discrowned warrior, returning
to Windsor bareheaded, his hair moist with the steam of recent conflict.' My own childish recollections
of his school life refer mainly to pugilism. In October 1842, as I learn from my mother's diary,
he found a big boy bullying me, and gave the boy such a thrashing as was certain to prevent
a repetition of the crime. I more vividly recollect another occasion, when a strong lad was
approaching me with hostile intent. I can still perceive my brother in the background; when
an application of the toe of his boot between the tails of my tyrant's coat disperses him instantaneously
into total oblivion. Other scenes dimly rise up, as of a tumult in the school-yard, where Fitzjames
was encountering one of the strongest boys in the school amidst a delighted crowd, when the
appearance of the masters stopped the proceedings. Fitzjames says that in his sixteenth year
(i.e. 1844-5) he grew nearly five inches, and instead of outgrowing his strength became a 'big,
powerful young man, six feet high,'--and certainly a very formidable opponent.

Other boys have had similar experiences without receiving the same impression. 'I was on the
whole,' he says, 'very unhappy at Eton, and I deserved it; for I was shy, timid, and I must
own cowardly. I was like a sensible grown-up woman among a crowd of rough boys.' After speaking
of his early submission to tyranny, he adds: 'I still think with shame and self-contempt of
my boyish weakness, which, however, did not continue in later years. The process taught me
for life the lesson that to be weak is to be wretched, that the state of nature is a state
of war, and Væ Victis the great law of Nature. Many years afterwards I met R. Lowe (Lord Sherbrooke)
at dinner. He was speaking of Winchester, and said with much animation that he had learnt one
great lesson there, namely, that a man can count on nothing in this world except what lies
between his hat and his boots. I learnt the same lesson at Eton, but alas! by conjugating not
pulso but vapulo.' As I have intimated, I think that his conscience must have rather exaggerated
his sins of submission; though I also cannot doubt that there was some ground for his self-humiliation.
In any case, he atoned for it fully. I must add that he learnt another lesson, which, after
his fashion, he refrains from avowing. The 'kicks, cuffs, and hat smashing had no other result,'
says Mr. Coleridge, 'than to steel his mind for ever against oppression, tyranny, and unfairness
of every kind.' How often that lesson is effectually taught by simple bullying I will not inquire.
Undoubtedly Fitzjames learnt it, though he expressed himself more frequently in terms of indignation
against the oppressor than of sympathy for the oppressed; but the sentiment was equally strong,
and I have no doubt that it was stimulated by these acts of tyranny.

The teaching at Eton was 'wretched'; the hours irregular and very unpunctual; the classes were
excessively large, and the tutorial instruction supposed to be given out of school frequently
neglected. 'I do not believe,' says my brother, 'that I was ever once called upon to construe
at my tutor's after I got into the fifth form.' An absurd importance, too, was already attached
to the athletic amusements. Balston, our tutor, was a good scholar after the fashion of the
day and famous for Latin verse; but he was essentially a commonplace don. 'Stephen major,'
he once said to my brother, 'if you do not take more pains, how can you ever expect to write
good longs and shorts? If you do not write good longs and shorts, how can you ever be a man
of taste? If you are not a man of taste, how can you ever hope to be of use in the world?'--a
sorites, says my brother, which must, he thinks, be somewhere defective.

The school, however, says Fitzjames, had two good points. The boys, in the first place, were
gentlemen by birth and breeding, and did not forget their home training. The simple explanation
of the defects of the school was, as he remarks, that parents in this class did not care about
learning; they wished their children to be gentlemen, and to be 'bold and active, and to make
friends and to enjoy themselves, and most of them had their wish.'

The second good point in the school is more remarkable. 'There was,' says Fitzjames, 'a complete
absence of moral and religious enthusiasm. The tone of Rugby was absolutely absent.' Chapel
was simply a kind of drill. He vividly remembers a sermon delivered by one of the Fellows,
a pompous old gentleman, who solemnly gave out the bidding prayer, and then began in these
words, 'which ring in my ears after the lapse of more than forty years.' 'The subject of my
discourse this morning, my brethren, will be the duties of the married state.' When Balston
was examined before a Public Schools Commission, he gave what Fitzjames considers 'a perfectly
admirable answer to one question.' He had said that the Provost and Fellows did all the preaching,
and was asked whether he did not regret that he could not, as headmaster, use this powerful
mode of influencing the boys? 'No,' he said; 'I was always of opinion that nothing was so important
for boys as the preservation of Christian simplicity.' 'This put into beautiful language,'
says my brother, 'the truth that at Eton there was absolutely no nonsense.' The masters knew
that they had 'nothing particular to teach in the way of morals or religion, and they did not
try to do so.'

The merits thus ascribed to Eton were chiefly due, it seems, to the neglect of discipline and
of teaching. My brother infers that good teaching at school is of less importance than is generally
supposed. I shall not enter upon that question; but it is necessary to point out that whatever
the merits of an entire absence of moral and religious instruction, my brother can hardly be
taken as an instance. At this time the intimacy with his father, already close, was rapidly
developing. On Sunday afternoons, in particular, my father used to walk to the little chapel
near Cumberland Lodge, in Windsor Park, and on the way would delight in the conversations which
so profoundly interested his son. The boy's mind was ripening, and he was beginning to take
an interest in some of the questions of the day. It was the time of the Oxford movement, and
discussions upon that topic were frequent at home. Frederick Gibbs held for a time a private
tutorship at Eton while reading for a fellowship at Trinity, and brought news of what was exciting
young men at the Universities. A quaint discussion recalled by my brother indicates one topic
which even reached the schoolboy mind. He was arguing as to confirmation with Herbert Coleridge
(1830-1861) whose promising career as a philologist was cut short by an early death. 'If you
are right,' said Fitzjames, 'a bishop could not confirm with his gloves on.' 'No more he could,'
retorted Coleridge, boldly accepting the position. Political questions turned up occasionally.
O'Connell was being denounced as 'the most impudent of created liars,' and a belief in Free
Trade was the mark of a dangerous radical. To the Eton time my brother also refers a passionate
contempt for the 'sentimental and comic' writers then popular. He was disgusted not only by
their sentimentalism but by their vulgarity and their ridicule of all that he respected.

One influence, at this time, mixed oddly with that exerted by my father. My eldest brother,
Herbert, had suffered from ill health, due, I believe, to a severe illness in his infancy,
which had made it impossible to give him a regular education. He had grown up to be a tall,
large-limbed man, six feet two-and-a-half inches in height, but loosely built, and with a deformity
of one foot which made him rather awkward. The delicacy of his constitution had caused much
anxiety and trouble, and he diverged from our family traditions by insisting upon entering
the army. There, as I divine, he was the object of a good deal of practical joking, and found
himself rather out of his element. He used to tell a story which may have received a little
embroidery in tradition. He was at a ball at Gibraltar, which was attended by a naval officer.
When the ladies had retired this gentleman proposed pistol shooting. After a candelabrum had
been smashed, the sailor insisted upon taking a shot at a man who was lying on a sofa, and
lodged a bullet in the wall just above his head. Herbert left the army about 1844 and entered
at Gray's Inn. He would probably have taken to literature, and he wrote a few articles not
without promise, but his life was a short one. He was much at Windsor, and the anxiety which
he had caused, as well as a great sweetness and openness of temper, made him, I guess, the
most tenderly loved of his parents' children. He had, however, wandered pretty widely outside
the limits of the Clapham Sect. He became very intimate with Fitzjames, and they had long and
frank discussions. This daring youth doubted the story of Noah's flood, and one phrase which
stuck in his brother's mind is significant. 'You,' he said, 'are a good boy, and I suppose
you will go to heaven. If you can enjoy yourself there when you think of me and my like grilling
in hell fire, upon my soul I don't envy you.' One other little glance from a point of view
other than that of Clapham impressed the lad. He found among his father's books a copy of 'State
Trials,' and there read the trial of Williams for publishing Paine's 'Age of Reason.' The extracts
from Paine impressed him; though, for a time, he had an impression from his father that Coleridge
and other wise men had made a satisfactory apology for the Bible; and 'in his inexperience'
he thought that Paine's coarseness implied a weak case. 'There is a great deal of truth,' he
says, 'in a remark made by Paine. Fitzjames was affected, he says, by the combined influence
of his father and brother. He thought that something was to be said on both sides of the argument.
Meanwhile the anxiety caused to his father by Herbert's unfortunately broken, though in no
sense discreditable, career impressed him with a strong sense of the evils of all irregularities
of conduct. He often remembered Herbert in connection with one of his odd anniversaries. 'This
day eighteen years ago,' he says (September 16, 1857), 'my brother Herbert and I killed a snake
in Windsor Forest. Poor dear fellow! we should have been great friends, and please God! we
shall be yet.'

Meanwhile Fitzjames had done well, though not brilliantly, at school. He was eighth in his
division, of which he gives the first twelve names from memory. The first boy was Chenery,
afterwards editor of the 'Times,' and the twelfth was Herbert Coleridge. With the exception
of Coleridge, his cousin Arthur, and W. J. Beamont (1828-1868), who at his death was a Fellow
at Trinity College, Cambridge, he had hardly any intimates. Chitty, afterwards his colleague
on the Bench, was then famous as an athlete; but with athletics my brother had nothing to do.
His only amusement of that kind was the solitary sport of fishing. He caught a few roach and
dace, and vainly endeavoured to inveigle pike. His failure was caused, perhaps, by scruples
as to the use of live bait, which led him to look up some elaborate recipes in Walton's 'Compleat
Angler.' Pike, though not very intelligent, have long seen through those ancient secrets.

One of these friendships led to a characteristic little incident. In the Christmas holidays
of 1844 Fitzjames was invited to stay with the father of his friend Beamont, who was a solicitor
at Warrington. There could not, as I had afterwards reason to know, have been a quieter or
simpler household. But they had certain gaieties. Indeed, if my memory does not deceive me,
Fitzjames there made his first and only appearance upon the stage in the character of Tony
Lumpkin. My father was alarmed by the reports of these excesses, and, as he was going to the
Diceys, at Claybrook, wrote to my brother of his intentions. He hinted that Fitzjames, if he
were at liberty, might like a visit to his cousins. Upon arriving at Rugby station he found
Fitzjames upon the platform. The lad had at once left Warrington, though a party had been specially
invited for his benefit, having interpreted the paternal hint in the most decisive sense. My
father, I must add, was shocked by the results of his letter, and was not happy till he had
put himself right with the innocent Beamonts.

Under Balston's advice Fitzjames was beginning to read for the Newcastle. Before much progress
had been made in this, however, my father discovered his son's unhappiness at school. Although
the deep designs of reform with which the masters seem to have credited him were purely imaginary,
my father had no high opinion of Eton, and devised another scheme. Fitzjames went to the school
for the last time about September 23, 1845, and then tore off his white necktie and stamped
upon it. He went into the ante-chapel and scowled, he says, at the boys inside, not with a
benediction. It was the close of three years to which he occasionally refers in his letters,
and always much in the same terms. They were, in the main, unhappy, and, as he emphatically
declared, the only unhappy years of his life, but they had taught him a lesson.

III. KING'S COLLEGE

On October 1, 1845, he entered King's College, London. Lodgings were taken for him at Highgate
Hill, within a few doors of his uncle, Henry Venn. He walked the four miles to the college,
dined at the Colonial Office at two, and returned by the omnibus. He was now his own master,
the only restriction imposed upon him being that he should every evening attend family prayers
at his uncle's house. The two years he spent at King's College were, he says, 'most happy.'
He felt himself changed from a boy to a man. The King's College lads, who, indeed called themselves
'men,' were of a lower social rank than the Etonians, and, as Fitzjames adds, unmistakably
inferior in physique. Boys who had the Strand as the only substitute for the playing-fields
were hardly likely to show much physical prowess. But they had qualities more important to
him. They were industrious, as became the sons of professional and business men. Their moral
tone was remarkably good; he never knew, he says, a more thoroughly well-behaved set of lads,
although he is careful to add that he does not think that in this respect Eton was bad. His
whole education had been among youths 'singularly little disposed to vice or a riot in any
form.' But the great change for him was that he could now find intellectual comradeship. There
was a debating society, in which he first learnt to hear his own voice, and indeed became a
prominent orator. He is reported to have won the surname 'Giant Grim.' His most intimate friend
was the present Dr. Kitchin, Dean of Durham. The lads discussed politics and theology and literature,
instead of putting down to affectation any interest outside of the river and the playing-fields.
Fitzjames not only found himself in a more congenial atmosphere, but could hold his own better
among youths whose standard of scholarship was less exalted than that of the crack Latin versemakers
at Eton, although the average level was perhaps higher. In 1846 he won a scholarship, and at
the summer examination was second in classics. In 1847 he was only just defeated for a scholarship
by an elder boy, and was first, both in classics and English literature, in the examinations,
besides winning a prize essay.

Here, as elsewhere, he was much interested by the theological tone of his little circle, which
was oddly heterogeneous. There was, in the first place, his uncle, Henry Venn, to whom he naturally
looked up as the exponent of the family orthodoxy. Long afterwards, upon Venn's death, he wrote,
'Henry Venn was the most triumphant man I ever knew.' 'I never,' he adds, 'knew a sturdier
man.' Such qualities naturally commanded his respect, though he probably was not an unhesitating
disciple. At King's College, meanwhile, which prided itself upon its Anglicanism, he came under
a very different set of teachers. The principal, Dr. Jelf, represented the high and dry variety
of Anglicanism. I can remember how, a little later, I used to listen with wonder to his expositions
of the Thirty-nine Articles. What a marvellous piece of good fortune it was, I used dimly to
consider, that the Church of England had always hit off precisely the right solution in so
many and such tangled controversies! But King's College had a professor of a very different
order in F. D. Maurice. His personal charm was remarkable, and if Fitzjames did not become
exactly a disciple he was fully sensible of Maurice's kindness of nature and loftiness of purpose.
He held, I imagine, in a vague kind of way, that here might perhaps be the prophet who was
to guide him across the deserts of infidelity into the promised land where philosophy and religion
will be finally reconciled. Of this, however, I shall have more to say hereafter.

I must now briefly mention the changes which took place at this time in our family. In 1846
my brother Herbert made a tour to Constantinople, and on his return home was seized by a fever
and died at Dresden on October 22. My father and mother had started upon the first news of
the illness, but arrived too late to see their son alive. Fitzjames in the interval came to
Windsor, and, as my mother records, was like a father to the younger children. The journey
to Dresden, with its terrible suspense and melancholy end, was a severe blow to my father.
From that time, as it seems to me, he was a changed man. He had already begun to think of retiring
from his post, and given notice that he must be considered as only holding it during the convenience
of his superiors.[52] He gave up the house at Windsor, having, indeed, kept it on chiefly because
Herbert was fond of the place. We settled for a time at Wimbledon. There my brother joined
us in the early part of 1847. A very severe illness in the autumn of 1847 finally induced my
father to resign his post. In recognition of his services he was made a privy councillor and
K.C.B. His retirement was at first provisional, and, on recovering, he was anxious to be still
employed in some capacity. The Government of the day considered the pension to which he was
entitled an inadequate reward for his services. There was some talk of creating the new office
of Assessor to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, to which he was to be appointed.
This proved to be impracticable, but his claim was partly recognised in his appointment to
succeed William Smyth (died June 26, 1849) as Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge.[53]
I may as well mention here the later events of his life, as they will not come into any precise
connection with my brother's history. The intimacy between the two strengthened as my brother
developed into manhood, and they were, as will be seen, in continual intercourse. But after
leaving King's College my brother followed his own lines, though for a time an inmate of our
household.

The Kensington house having been let, we lived in various suburban places, and, for a time,
at Cambridge. My father's professorship occupied most of his energies in later years. He delivered
his first course in the May term of 1850. Another very serious illness, threatening brain fever,
interrupted him for a time, and he went abroad in the autumn of 1850. He recovered, however,
beyond expectation, and was able to complete his lectures in the winter, and deliver a second
course in the summer of 1851. These lectures were published in 1852 as 'Lectures on the History
of France.' They show, I think, the old ability, but show also some failure of the old vivacity.
My father did not possess the profound antiquarian knowledge which is rightly demanded in a
professor of the present day; and, indeed, I think it is not a little remarkable that, in the
midst of his absorbing work, he had acquired so much historical reading as they display. But,
if I am not mistaken, the lectures have this peculiar merit--that they are obviously written
by a man who had had vast practical experience of actual administrative work. They show, therefore,
an unusual appreciation of the constitutional side of French history; and he anticipated some
of the results set forth with, of course, far greater knowledge of the subject, in Tocqueville's
'Ancien Régime.' Tocqueville himself wrote very cordially to my father upon the subject; and
the lectures have been valued by very good judges. Nothing, however, could be more depressing
than the position of a professor at Cambridge at that time. The first courses delivered by
my father were attended by a considerable number of persons capable of feeling literary curiosity--a
class which was then less abundant than it would now be at Cambridge. But he very soon found
that his real duty was to speak to young gentlemen who had been driven into his lecture-room
by well-meant regulations; who were only anxious to secure certificates for the 'poll' degree,
and whose one aim was to secure them on the cheapest possible terms. To candidates for honours,
the history school was at best a luxury for which they could rarely spare time, and my father
had to choose between speaking over the heads of his audience and giving milk and water to
babes. The society of the Cambridge dons in those days was not much to his taste, and he soon
gave up residence there.

About the beginning of 1853 he took a house in Westbourne Terrace, which became his headquarters.
In 1855 he accepted a professorship at Haileybury, which was then doomed to extinction, only
to hold it during the last three years of the existence of the college. These lectures sufficiently
occupied his strength, and he performed them to the best of his ability. The lectures upon
French history were, however, the last performance which represented anything like his full powers.

IV. CAMBRIDGE

In October 1847 my brother went into residence at Trinity College, Cambridge. 'My Cambridge
career,' he says, 'was not to me so memorable or important a period of life as it appears to
some people.' He seems to have extended the qualification to all his early years. 'Few men,'
he says, 'have worked harder than I have for the last thirty-five years, but I was a very lazy,
unsystematic lad up to the age of twenty-two.' He would sometimes speak of himself as 'one
of a slowly ripening race,' and set little value upon the intellectual acquirements attained
during the immature period. Yet I have sufficiently shown that in some respects he was even
exceptionally developed. From his childhood he had shared the thoughts of his elders; he had
ceased to be a boy when he had left Eton at sixteen; and he came up to Cambridge far more of
a grown man than nine in ten of his contemporaries. So far, indeed, as his character was concerned,
he had scarcely ever been a child: at Cambridge, as at Eton, he regarded many of the ambitions
of his contemporaries as puerile. Even the most brilliant undergraduates are sometimes tempted
to set an excessive value upon academical distinction. A senior wranglership appears to them
to be the culminating point of human glory, instead of the first term in the real battle of
life. Fitzjames, far from sharing this delusion, regarded it, perhaps, with rather too much
contempt. His thoughts were already upon his future career, and he cared for University distinctions
only as they might provide him with a good start in the subsequent competition. But this marked
maturity of character did not imply the possession of corresponding intellectual gifts, or,
as I should rather say, of such gifts as led to success in the Senate House. Fitzjames had
done respectably at Eton, and had been among the first lads at King's College. He probably
came up to Cambridge with confidence that he would make a mark in examinations. But his mind,
however powerful, was far from flexible. He had not the intellectual docility which often enables
a clever youth to surpass rivals of much greater originality--as originality not unfrequently
tempts a man outside the strait and narrow path which leads to the maximum of marks. 'I have
always found myself,' says Fitzjames, in reference to his academical career, 'one of the most
unteachable of human beings. I cannot, to this day, take in anything at second hand. I have
in all cases to learn whatever I want to learn in a way of my own. It has been so with law,
with languages, with Indian administration, with the machinery I have had to study in patent
cases, with English composition--in a word, with everything whatever.' For other reasons, however,
he was at a disadvantage. He not only had not yet developed, but he never at any time possessed,
the intellectual qualities most valued at Cambridge.

The Cambridge of those days had merits, now more likely to be overlooked than overvalued. The
course was fitted to encourage strenuous masculine industry, love of fair play, and contempt
for mere showy displays of cleverness. But it must be granted that it was strangely narrow.
The University was not to be despised which could turn out for successive senior wranglers
from 1840 to 1843 such men as Leslie Ellis, Sir George Stokes, Professor Cayley, and Adams,
the discoverer of Neptune, while the present Lord Kelvin was second wrangler and first Smith's
prizeman in 1845. During the same period the great Latin scholar, Munro (1842), and H. S. Maine
(1844), were among the lights of the Classical Tripos. But, outside of the two Triposes, there
was no career for a man of any ability. To parody a famous phrase of Hume's, Cambridge virtually
said to its pupils, 'Is this a treatise upon geometry or algebra? No. Is it, then, a treatise
upon Greek or Latin grammar, or on the grammatical construction of classical authors? No. Then
commit it to the flames, for it contains nothing worth your study.' Now, in both these arenas
Fitzjames was comparatively feeble. He read classical books, not only at Cambridge but in later
life, when he was pleased to find his scholarship equal to the task of translating. But he
read them for their contents, not from any interest in the forms of language. He was without
that subtlety and accuracy of mind which makes the born scholar. He was capable of blunders
surprising in a man of his general ability; and every blunder takes away marks. He was still
less of a mathematician. 'I disliked,' as he says himself, 'and foolishly despised the studies
of the place, and did not care about accurate classical scholarship, in which I was utterly
wrong. I was clumsy at calculation, though I think I have, and always have had, a good head
for mathematical principles; and I utterly loathed examinations, which seem to me to make learning
all but impossible.'

A letter from his friend, the Rev. H. W. Watson, second wrangler in 1850, who was a year his
senior, has given me a very interesting account of impressions made at this time. The two had
been together at King's College. Fitzjames's appearance at Trinity was, writes Mr. Watson,
'an epoch in my college life. A close intimacy sprung up between us, and made residence at
Cambridge a totally different thing from what it had been in my first year. Your brother's
wide culture, his singular force of character, his powerful but, at that time, rather unwieldy
intellect, his Johnsonian brusqueness of speech and manner, mingled with a corresponding Johnsonian
warmth of sympathy with and loyalty to friends in trouble or anxiety, his sturdiness in the
assertion of his opinions, and the maintenance of his principles, disdaining the smallest concession
for popularity's sake ... all these traits combined in the formation of an individuality which
no one could know intimately and fail to be convinced that only time was wanting for the achievement
of no ordinary distinction.' 'Yet,' says Mr. Watson, 'he was distanced by men immeasurably
his inferiors.' Nor can this, as Mr. Watson rightly adds, be regarded as a condemnation of
the system rather than of my brother. 'I attempted to prepare him in mathematics, and the well-known
Dr. Scott, afterwards headmaster of Westminster, was his private tutor in classics; and we
agreed in marvelling at and deploring the hopelessness of our tasks. For your brother's mind,
acute and able as it was in dealing with matters of concrete human interest, seemed to lose
grasp of things viewed purely in the abstract, and positively refused to work upon questions
of grammatical rules and algebraical formulæ.' When they were afterwards fellow-students for
a short time in law, Mr. Watson remarked in Fitzjames a similar impatience of legal technicalities.
He thinks that the less formal system at Oxford might have suited my brother better. At that
time, however, Cambridge was only beginning to stir in its slumbers. The election of the Prince
Consort to the Chancellorship in 1847 (my brother's first year of residence) had roused certain
grumblings as to the probable 'Germanising' of our ancient system; and a beginning was made,
under Whewell's influence, by the institution of the 'Moral Sciences' and 'Natural Sciences'
Triposes in 1851. The theory was, apparently, that, if you ask questions often enough, people
will learn in time to answer them. But for the present they were regarded as mere 'fancy' examinations.
No rewards were attainable by success; and the ambitious undergraduates kept to the ancient paths.

I may as well dispose here of one other topic which seems appropriate to University days. Fitzjames
cared nothing for the athletic sports which were so effectually popularised soon afterwards
in the time of 'Tom Brown's School Days.' Athletes, indeed, cast longing eyes at his stalwart
figure. One eminent oarsman persuaded my brother to take a seat in a pair-oared boat, and found
that he could hardly hold his own against the strength of the neophyte. He tried to entice
so promising a recruit by offers of a place in the 'Third Trinity' crew and ultimate hopes
of a 'University Blue.' Fitzjames scorned the dazzling offer. I remember how Ritson, the landlord
at Wastdale Head, who had wrestled with Christopher North, lamented in after years that Fitzjames
had never entered the ring. He spoke in the spirit of the prize-fighter who said to Whewell,
'What a man was lost when they made you a parson!' His only taste of the kind was his hereditary
love of walking. His mother incidentally observes in January 1846, that he has accomplished
a walk of thirty-three miles; and in later days that was a frequent allowance. Though not a
fast walker, he had immense endurance. He made several Alpine tours, and once (in 1860) he
accompanied me in an ascent of the Jungfrau with a couple of guides. He was fresh from London;
we had passed a night in a comfortless cave; the day was hot, and his weight made a plod through
deep snow necessarily fatiguing. We reached the summit with considerable difficulty. On the
descent he slipped above a certain famous bergschrund; the fall of so ponderous a body jerked
me out of the icy steps, and our combined weight dragged down the guides. Happily the bergschrund
was choked with snow, and we escaped with an involuntary slide. As we plodded slowly homewards,
we expected that his exhaustion would cause a difficulty in reaching the inn. But by the time
we got there he was, I believe, the freshest of the party. I remember another characteristic
incident of the walk. He began in the most toilsome part of the climb to expound to me a project
for an article in the 'Saturday Review.' I consigned that journal to a fate which I believe
it has hitherto escaped. But his walks were always enjoyed as opportunities for reflection.
Occasionally he took a gun or a rod, and I am told was not a bad shot. He was, however, rather
inclined to complain of the appearance of a grouse as interrupting his thoughts. In sport of
the gambling variety he never took the slightest interest; and when he became a judge, he shocked
a Liverpool audience by asking in all simplicity, 'What is the "Grand National"?' That, I understand,
is like asking a lawyer, What is a Habeas Corpus? He was never seized with the athletic or
sporting mania, much as he enjoyed a long pound through pleasant scenery. In this as in some
other things he came to think that his early contempt for what appeared to be childish amusements
had been pushed rather to excess.

I return to Cambridge. My brother knew slightly some of the leading men of the place. The omniscient
Whewell, who concealed a warm heart and genuine magnanimity under rather rough and overbearing
manners, had welcomed my father very cordially to Cambridge and condescended to be polite to
his son. But the gulf which divided him from an undergraduate was too wide to allow the transmission
of real personal influence. Thompson, Whewell's successor in the mastership, was my brother's
tutor. He is now chiefly remembered for certain shrewd epigrams; but then enjoyed a great reputation
for his lectures upon Plato. My brother attended them; but from want of natural Platonism or
for other reasons failed to profit by them, and thought the study was sheer waste of time.
Another great Cambridge man of those days, the poetical mathematician, Leslie Ellis, was kind
to my brother, who had an introduction to him probably from Spedding. Ellis was already suffering
from the illness which confined him to his room at Trumpington, and prevented him from ever
giving full proofs of intellectual powers, rated by all who knew him as astonishing. I may
quote what Fitzjames says of one other contemporary, the senior classic of his own year: 'Lightfoot's
reputation for accuracy and industry was unrivalled; but it was not generally known what a
depth of humour he had or what general force of character.' Lightfoot's promotion to the Bishopric
of Durham removed him, as my brother thought, from his proper position as a teacher; and he
suffered 'under the general decay of all that belongs to theology.' I do not find, however,
that Lightfoot had any marked influence upon Fitzjames.

The best thing that the ablest man learns at college, as somebody has said, is that there are
abler men than himself. My brother became intimate with several very able men of his own age,
and formed friendships which lasted for life. He met them especially in two societies, which
influenced him as they have influenced many men destined to achieve eminence. The first was
the 'Union.' There his oratory became famous. The 'Gruffian' and 'Giant Grim' was now known
as the 'British Lion'; and became, says Mr. Watson, 'a terror to the shallow and wordy, and
a merciless exposer of platitudes and shams.' Mr. Watson describes a famous scene in the October
term of 1849 which may sufficiently illustrate his position. 'There was at that time at Trinity
a cleverish, excitable, worthy fellow whose mind was a marvellous mixture of inconsistent opinions
which he expounded with a kind of oratory as grotesque as his views.' Tradition supplies me
with one of his flowers of speech. He alluded to the clergy as 'priests sitting upon their
golden middens and crunching the bones of the people.' These oddities gave my brother irresistible
opportunities for making fun of his opponent. 'One night his victim's powers of endurance gave
way. The scene resembled the celebrated outburst of Canning when goaded by the invectives of
Brougham. The man darted across the room with the obvious intention of making a physical onslaught,
and then, under what impulse and with what purpose I do not know, the whole meeting suddenly
flashed into a crowd of excited, wrangling boys. They leapt upon the seats, climbed upon the
benches, vociferated and gesticulated against each other, heedless of the fines and threats
of the bewildered President, and altogether reproduced a scene of the French revolutionary
Assembly.' Mr. Llewelyn Davies was the unfortunate President on this occasion, and mentions
that my brother commemorated the scene in a 'heroic ballad' which has disappeared.

From the minutes of the Society[54] 'I learn further details of this historic scene. The debate
(November 27, 1849) arose upon a motion in favour of Cobden. His panegyrist made 'such violent
interruptions' that a motion was made for his expulsion, but carried by an insufficient majority.
Another orator then 'became unruly' and was expelled by a superabundant majority, while the
original mover was fined 2l. The motion was then unanimously negatived, 'the opener not being
present to reply.' From the records of other debates I learn that Fitzjames was in favour of
the existing Church Establishment as against advocates of change, whether high churchmen or
liberationists. He also opposed motions for extension of the suffrage, without regard to education
or property, moved by Sir W. Harcourt. He agrees, however, with Harcourt in condemning the
game laws. His most characteristic utterance was when the admirer of Cobden had moved that
'to all human appearance we are warranted in tracing for our own country through the dim perspective
of coming time an exalted and glorious destiny.' Fitzjames moved as an amendment 'that the
House, while it acknowledges the many dangers to which the country is exposed, trusts that
through the help of God we may survive them.' This amendment was carried by 60 to 0.

The other society was one which has included a very remarkable number of eminent men. In my
undergraduate days we used to speak with bated breath of the 'Apostles'--the accepted nickname
for what was officially called the Cambridge Conversazione Society. It was founded about 1820,
and had included such men as Tennyson (who, as my brother reports, had to leave the Society
because he was too lazy to write an essay), the two younger Hallams, Maurice, Sterling, Charles
Buller, Arthur Helps, James Spedding, Monckton Milnes, Tom Taylor, Charles Merivale, Canon
Blakesley, and others whom I shall have to mention. The existence of a society intended to
cultivate the freest discussion of all the great topics excited some suspicion when, about
1834, there was a talk of abolishing tests. It was then warmly defended by Thirlwall, the historian,
who said that many of its members had become ornaments of the Church.[55]

But the very existence of this body was scarcely known to the University at large; and its
members held reticence to be a point of honour. You might be aware that your most intimate
friend belonged to it: you had dimly inferred the fact from his familiarity with certain celebrities,
and from discovering that upon Saturday evenings he was always mysteriously engaged. But he
never mentioned his dignity; any more than at the same period a Warrington would confess that
he was a contributor to the leading journals of the day. The members were on the look-out for
any indications of intellectual originality, academical or otherwise, and specially contemptuous
of humbug, cant, and the qualities of the 'windbag' in general. To be elected, therefore, was
virtually to receive a certificate from some of your cleverest contemporaries that they regarded
you as likely to be in future an eminent man. The judgment so passed was perhaps as significant
as that implied by University honours, and a very large proportion of the apostles have justified
the anticipations of their fellows.

My brother owed his election at an unusually early period of his career to one of the most
important friendships of his life. In the summer vacation of 1845 F. W. Gibbs was staying at
Filey, reading for the Trinity Fellowship, which he obtained in the following October. Fitzjames
joined him, and there met Henry Sumner Maine, who had recently (1844) taken his degree at Cambridge,
when he was not only 'senior classic' but a senior classic of exceptional brilliancy. Both
Maine and Gibbs were apostles and, of course, friends. My brother's first achievement was to
come near blowing out his new friend's brains by the accidental discharge of a gun. Maine happily
escaped, and must have taken a liking to the lad. In 1847 Maine was appointed to the Regius
Professorship of Civil Law in Cambridge. The study which he was to teach had fallen into utter
decay. Maine himself cannot at that time have had any profound knowledge of the Civil Law--if,
indeed, he ever acquired such knowledge. But his genius enabled him to revive the study in
England--although no genius could galvanise the corpse of legal studies at the Cambridge of
those days into activity. Maine, as Fitzjames says, 'made in the most beautiful manner applications
of history and philosophy to Roman law, and transfigured one of the driest of subjects into
all sorts of beautiful things without knowing or caring much about details.' He was also able
to 'sniff at Bentham' for his ignorance in this direction. 'I rebelled against Maine for many
years,' says Fitzjames, 'till at last I came to recognise, not only his wonderful gifts, but
the fact that at bottom he and I agreed fundamentally, though it cost us both a good deal of
trouble to find it out.' I quote this because it bears upon my brother's later development
of opinion. For the present, the personal remark is more relevant. Maine, says Fitzjames, 'was
perfectly charming to me at college, as he is now. He was most kind, friendly, and unassuming;
and, though I was a freshman and he a young don,[56] and he was twenty-six when I was twenty--one
of the greatest differences of age and rank which can exist between two people having so much
in common--we were always really and effectually equal. We have been the closest of friends
all through life.' I think, indeed, that Maine's influence upon my brother was only second
to that of my father.

Maine brought Fitzjames into the apostles in his first term.[57] Maine, says my brother, 'was
a specially shining apostle, and in all discussions not only took by far the first and best
part, but did it so well and unpretentiously, and in a strain so much above what the rest of
us could reach, that it was a great piece of education to hear him.' Other members of the little
society, which generally included only five or six--the name 'apostles' referring to the limit
of possible numbers--were E. H. Stanley (afterwards Lord Derby), who left in March 1848, Vernon
Harcourt (now Sir William), H. W. Watson, Julian Fane,[58] and the present Canon Holland. Old
members--Monckton Milnes, James Spedding, Henry Fitzmaurice Hallam, and W. H. Thompson (the
tutor)--occasionally attended meetings. The late Professor Hort and the great physicist, Clerk
Maxwell, joined about the time of my brother's departure. He records one statement of Maxwell's
which has, I suspect, been modified in transmission. The old logicians, said Maxwell, recognised
four forms of syllogism. Hamilton had raised the number to 7, but he had himself discovered
135. This, however, mattered little, as the great majority could not be expressed in human
language, and even if expressed were not susceptible of any meaning.

This specimen would give a very inaccurate notion of the general line of discussion. By the
kindness of Professor Sidgwick, I am enabled to give some specimens of the themes supported
by my brother, which may be of interest, not merely in regard to him, but as showing what topics
occupied the minds of intelligent youths at the time. The young gentlemen met every Saturday
night in term time and read essays. They discussed all manner of topics. Sometimes they descended
to mere commonplaces--Is a little knowledge a dangerous thing? Is it possible ridentem dicere
verum? (which Fitzjames is solitary in denying)--but more frequently they expatiate upon the
literary, poetical, ethical, and philosophical problems which can be answered so conclusively
in our undergraduate days. Fitzjames self-denyingly approves of the position assigned to mathematics
at Cambridge. In literary matters I notice that he does not think the poetry of Byron of a
'high order'; that he reads some essays of Shelley, which are unanimously voted 'unsatisfactory';
that he denies that Tennyson's 'Princess' shows higher powers than the early poems (a rather
ambiguous phrase); that he considers Adam, not Satan, to be the hero of 'Paradise Lost'; and,
more characteristically, that he regards the novels of the present day as 'degenerate,' and,
on his last appearance, maintains the superiority of Miss Austen's 'Emma' to Miss Brontë's
'Jane Eyre.' 'Jane Eyre' had then, I remember, some especially passionate admirers at Cambridge.
His philosophical theories are not very clear. He thinks, like some other people, that Locke's
chapter on 'Substance' is 'unsatisfactory'; and agrees with some 'strictures' on the early
chapters of Mill's 'Political Economy.' He writes an essay to explode the poor old social contract.
He holds that the study of metaphysics is desirable, but adds the note, 'not including ontological
inquiries under the head of metaphysics.' He denies, however, the proposition that 'all general
truths are founded on experience.' He thinks that a meaning can be attached to the term 'freewill';
but considers it impossible 'to frame a satisfactory hypothesis as to the origin of evil.'
Even the intellect of the apostles had its limits. His ethical doctrines seem to have inclined
to utilitarianism. The whole society (four members present) agrees that the system of expediency,
'so far from being a derogation from the moral dignity of man, is the only method consistent
with the conditions of his action.' He is neutral upon the question whether 'self-love is the
immediate motive of all our actions,' and considers that question unmeaning, 'as not believing
it possible that a man should be at once subject and object.' He writes an essay to show that
there is no foundation 'for a philosophy of history in the analogy between the progressive
improvement of mankind and that of which individuals are capable,' and he holds (in opposition
to Maine) that Carlyle is a 'philosophic historian.' The only direct reference to contemporary
politics is characteristic. Fane had argued that 'some elements of socialism' should be 'employed
in that reconstruction of society which the spirit of the age demands.' Maine agrees, but Fitzjames
denies that any reconstruction of society is needed.

Theological discussions abound. Fitzjames thinks that there are grounds independent of revelation
for believing in the goodness and unity of an intelligent First Cause. He reads an essay to
prove that we can form a notion of inspiration which does not involve dictation. He thinks
it 'more agreeable to right reason' to explain the Biblical account of the creation by literal
interpretation than 'on scientific principles,' but adds the rider, 'so far as it can be reconciled
with geological facts.' He denies that the Pentateuch shows 'traces of Egyptian origin.' He
thinks that Paley's views of the 'essential doctrines of Christianity' are insufficient. He
approves the 'strict observance of the Sabbath in England,' but notes that he does not wish
to 'confound the Christian Sunday with the Jewish Sabbath.'

The instinct which leads a young man to provide himself with a good set of dogmatic first principles
is very natural; and the free and full discussion of them with his fellows, however crude their
opinions may be, is among the very best means of education. I need only remark that the apostles
appear to have refrained from discussion of immediate politics, and to have been little concerned
in some questions which were agitating the sister University. They have nothing to say about
Apostolical Succession and the like; nor are there any symptoms of interest in German philosophy,
which Hamilton and Mansel were beginning to introduce. At Cambridge the young gentlemen are
content with Locke and Mill; and at most know something of Coleridge and Maurice. Mr. Watson
compares these meetings to those at Newman's rooms in Oxford as described by Mark Pattison.
There a luckless advocate of ill-judged theories might be crushed for the evening by the polite
sentence, Very likely. At the Cambridge meetings, the trial to the nerves, as Mr. Watson thinks,
was even more severe. There was not the spell of common reverence for a great man, in whose
presence a modest reticence was excusable. You were expected to speak out, and failure was
the more appalling. The contests between Stephen and Harcourt were especially famous. Though,
says Mr. Watson, your brother was 'not a match in adroitness and chaff' for his great 'rival,'
he showed himself at his best in these struggles. 'The encounters were veritable battles of
the gods, and I recall them after forty years with the most vivid recollection of the pleasure
they caused.' When Sir William Harcourt entered Parliament, my brother remarked to Mr. Llewelyn
Davies, 'It does not seem to be in the natural order of things that Harcourt should be in the
House and I not there to criticise him.'

Fitzjames's position in regard both to theology and politics requires a little further notice.
At this time my brother was not only a stern moralist, but a 'zealous and reverential witness
on behalf of dogma, and that in the straitest school of the Evangelicals.' Mr. Watson mentions
the death at college of a fellow-student during the last term of my brother's residence. In
his last hours the poor fellow confided to his family his gratitude to Fitzjames for having
led him to think seriously on religious matters. I find a very minute account of this written
by my brother at the time to a common friend. He expresses very strong feeling, and had been
most deeply moved by his first experience of a deathbed; but he makes no explicit reflections.
Though decidedly of the evangelical persuasion at this period, and delighting in controversy
upon all subjects, great and small, his intense aversion to sentimentalism was not only as
marked as it ever became, but even led to a kind of affectation of prosaic matter of fact stoicism,
a rejection of every concession to sentiment, which he afterwards regarded as excessive.

The impression made upon him by contemporary politics was remarkable. The events of 1848 stirred
all young men in one way or the other; and although the apostles were discussing the abstract
problems of freewill and utilitarianism, they were no doubt keenly interested in concrete history.
No one was more moved than Fitzjames. He speaks of the optimistic views which were popular
with the Liberals after 1832, expounded by Cobden and Bright and supposed to be sanctioned
by the Exhibition of 1851. It was the favourite cant that Captain Pen 'had got the best of
Captain Sword, and that henceforth the kindly earth would slumber, lapt in universal law. I
cannot say how I personally loathed this way of thinking, and how radically false, hollow and
disgusting it seemed to me then, and seems to me now.' The crash of 1848 came like a thunderbolt,
and 'history seemed to have come to life again with all its wild elemental forces.' For the
first time he was aware of actual war within a small distance, and the settlement of great
questions by sheer force. 'How well I remember my own feelings, which were, I think, the feelings
of the great majority of my age and class, and which have ever since remained in me as strong
and as unmixed as they were in 1848. I feel them now (1887) as keenly as ever, though the world
has changed and thinks and feels, as it seems, quite differently. They were feelings of fierce,
unqualified hatred for the revolution and revolutionists; feelings of the most bitter contempt
and indignation against those who feared them, truckled to them, or failed to fight them whensoever
they could and as long as they could: feelings of zeal against all popular aspirations and
in favour of all established institutions whatever their various defects or harshnesses (which,
however, I wished to alter slowly and moderately): in a word, the feelings of a scandalised
policeman towards a mob breaking windows in the cause of humanity. I should have liked first
to fire grapeshot down every street in Paris, till the place ran with blood, and next to try
Louis Philippe and those who advised him not to fight by court martial, and to have hanged
them all as traitors and cowards. The only event in 1848 which gave me real pleasure was the
days of June, when Cavaignac did what, if he had been a man or not got into a fright about
his soul, or if he had had a real sense of duty instead of a wretched consciousness of weakness
and a false position, Louis Philippe would have done months before.' He cannot, he admits,
write with calmness to this day of the king's cowardice; and he never passed the Tuileries
in later life without feeling the sentiment about Louis XVI. and his 'heritage splendid' expressed
by Thackeray's drummer, 'Ah, shame on him, craven and coward, that had not the heart to defend it!'

'I have often wondered,' adds Fitzjames, 'at my own vehement feelings on these subjects, and
I am not altogether prepared to say that they are not more or less foolish. I have never seen
war. I have never heard a shot fired in anger, and I have never had my courage put to any proof
worth speaking of. Have I any right to talk of streets running with blood? Is it not more likely
that, at a pinch, I might myself run in quite a different direction? It is one of the questions
which will probably remain unanswered for ever, whether I am a coward or not. But that has
nothing really to do with the question. If I am a coward, I am contemptible: but Louis Philippe
was a coward and contemptible whether I am a coward or not; and my feelings on the whole of
this subject are, at all events, perfectly sincere, and are the very deepest and most genuine
feelings I have.' Fitzjames's only personal experience of revolutionary proceedings was on
the famous 10th of April, when he was in London, but saw only special constables. The events
of the day confirmed him in the doctrine that every disorganised mob is more likely to behave
in the spirit of the lowest and most contemptible units than in the spirit of what is highest
in them.

I can only add one little anecdote of those days. A friend of my brother's rushed into his
rooms obviously to announce some very exciting piece of news. Is the mob triumphant in Paris?
'I don't know,' was the reply, 'but a point has been decided in the Gorham case.' Good evangelical
as Fitzjames then was, he felt that there were more important controversies going on than squabbles
over baptismal regeneration. A curious set of letters written in his first vacation to his
friend Dr. Kitchin show, however, that he then took an eager interest in this doctrine. He
discusses it at great length in the evangelical sense, with abundant quotations of texts.

While interested in these matters, winning fame at the Union and enjoying the good opinion
of the apostles, Fitzjames was failing in a purely academical sense. He tried twice for a scholarship
at Trinity, and both times unsuccessfully, though he was not very far from success. The failure
excluded him, as things then were, from the possibility of a fellowship, and a degree became
valueless for its main purpose. He resolved, therefore, to go abroad with my father, who had
to travel in search of health. He passed the winter of 1850-1 in Paris, where he learnt French,
and attended sittings of the Legislative Assembly, and was especially interested by proceedings
in the French law-courts. He kept the May term of 1851 at Cambridge, and went out in the 'Poll.'
Judging from the performances of his rivals, he would probably have been in the lower half
of the first class in the Classical Tripos. Although his last months at Cambridge were not
cheering, he retained a feeling for the place very unlike his feeling towards Eton. He had
now at least found himself firmly on his own legs, measured his strength against other competitors,
and made lasting friendships with some of the strongest. It had been, he says, 'my greatest
ambition to get a fellowship at Trinity, but I got it at last, however, for I was elected an
honorary Fellow in the autumn of 1885. I have had my share of compliments, but I never received
one which gave me half so much pleasure.' He visited Cambridge in later years and was my guest,
and long afterwards the guest of his friend Maine, at certain Christmas festivities in Trinity
Hall. He speaks in the warmest terms of his appreciation of the place, 'old and dignified,
yet fresh and vigorous.' Nearly his last visit was in the autumn of 1885, when he gave a dinner
to the apostles, of whom his son James was then a member.

Fitzjames's friends were naturally surprised at his throwing up the game. Most of them set,
as I have intimated, a higher value upon academical honours, considered by themselves, than
he ever admitted to be just. Possibly they exaggerated a little the disgust which was implied
by his absolute abandonment of the course. And yet, I find the impression among those who saw
most of him at the time, that the disappointment was felt with great keenness. The explanation
is given, I think, in some remarks made by my father to Mr Watson. My father held that the
University system of distributing honours was very faulty. Men, he said, wanted all the confidence
they could acquire in their own powers for the struggle of life. Whatever braced and stimulated
self-reliance was good. The honour system encouraged the few who succeeded and inflicted upon
the rest a 'demoralising sense of failure.' I have no doubt that my father was, in fact, generalising
from the case of Fitzjames. What really stung the young man was a more or less dim foreboding
of the difficulties which were to meet him in the world at large. He was not one of the men
fitted for easy success. The successful man is, I take it, the man with an eye for the line
of least resistance. He has an instinct, that is, for the applying his strength in the direction
in which it will tell most. And he has the faculty of so falling in with other men's modes
of thinking and feeling that they may spontaneously, if unconsciously, form a band of supporters.
Obstacles become stepping-stones to such men. It was Fitzjames's fate through life to take
the bull by the horns; to hew a path through jungles and up steep places along the steepest
and most entangled routes; and to shoulder his way by main strength and weight through a crowd,
instead of contriving to combine external pressures into an agency for propulsion. At this
time, the contrast between his acceptance with the ablest of his contemporaries in private
and his inability to obtain the public stamp of merit perplexed and troubled him. Maine and
Thompson could recognise his abilities. Why could not the examiners? Might not his ambition
have to struggle with similar obstacles at the bar or in the pulpit?

I quote from a letter written by my father during Fitzjames's academical career to show what
was the relation at this time between the two men. My father dictates to my mother a letter
to Fitzjames, dated January 19, 1849.[59] 'You well know,' he says, 'that I have long since
surmounted that paternal ambition which might have led me to thirst for your eminence as a scholar.

It has not pleased God to give you that kind of bodily constitution and mental temperament
which is essential to such success.' He proceeds to say that, although success in examinations
is 'not essential to the great ends of Fitzjames's existence, it is yet very desirable that
he should become a good scholar from higher motives--such,' he adds, 'as are expounded in Bacon's
"De Augmentis."' He solemnly recommends regular prayer for guidance in studies for which the
lower motives may be insufficient. It then occurs to my mother that the advice may be a little
discouraging. 'I am reminded by my amanuensis that I have left you in the dark as to my opinion
of your probable success in the literary labours to which I have exhorted you. You must be
a very mole if the darkness be real. From your childhood to this day I have ever shown you
by more than words how high an estimate I entertain both of the depth and the breadth of your
capacity. I have ever conversed with you as with a man, not as with a child; and though parental
partiality has never concealed from me the fact of your deficiency in certain powers of mind
which are essential to early excellence in learning, yet I have never been for a moment distrustful
of your possessing an intellect which, if well disciplined and well cultured, will continue
to expand, improve, and yield excellent fruit long after the mental faculties of many of your
more fortunate rivals will have passed from their full maturity into premature decay. Faith
in yourself (which is but one of the many forms of faith in God) is the one thing needful to
your intellectual progress; and if your faith in yourself may but survive the disappointment
of your academical ambition, that disappointment will be converted into a blessing.'

The letter shows, I think, under the rather elaborate phraseology, both the perspicuity with
which the father had estimated his son's talents and the strong sympathy which bound them together.
The reference to Fitzjames's 'want of faith in himself' is significant. If want of faith is
to be measured by want of courage in tackling the difficulties of life, no man could be really
less open to the charge than Fitzjames. But my father, himself disposed to anticipate ill fortune,
had certain reasons for attributing to his son a tendency in the same direction. Fitzjames's
hatred of all exaggeration, his resolute refusal to be either sentimental or optimistic, led
him to insist upon the gloomy side of things. Moreover, he was still indolent; given to be
slovenly in his work, and rather unsocial in his ways, though warmly attached to a few friends.
My father, impressed by these symptoms, came to the conclusion that Fitzjames was probably
unsuited for the more active professions for which a sanguine temper and a power of quickly
attaching others are obvious qualifications. He therefore looked forward to his son's adoption
of the clerical career, which his own deep piety as well as his painful experience of official
vexations had long made him regard as the happiest of all careers. Circumstances strengthened
this feeling. My father's income had been diminished by his resignation, while the education
of his two sons became more expensive, and he had to contribute to the support of his brother
George. No human being could have made us feel more clearly that he would willingly give us
his last penny or his last drop of blood. But he was for a time more than usually vexed and
anxious; and the fact could not be quite concealed.

Fitzjames's comparative failure at Cambridge suggests to him a significant remark. After speaking
of his 'unteachableness,' he observes that his mind was over-full of thoughts about religion,
about politics, about morals, about metaphysics, about all sorts of subjects, except art, literature,
or physical science. For art of any kind I have never cared, and do not care in the very least.
For literature, as such, I care hardly at all. I like to be amused and instructed on the particular
things I want to know; but works of genius, as such, give me very little pleasure, and as to
the physical sciences, they interest me only so far as they illustrate the true method of inquiry.
They, or rather some of them, have the advantage of being particularly true, and so a guide
in the pursuit of moral and distinctively human truth. For their own sake, I care very little
about them.'

V. READING FOR THE BAR

My brother had definitely to make the choice of a profession upon which he had been reflecting
during his college career. He set about the task in an eminently characteristic way. When he
had failed in the last scholarship examination, he sat down deliberately and wrote out a careful
discussion of the whole question. The result is before me in a little manuscript book, which
Fitzjames himself re-read and annotated in 1865, 1872, and 1880. He read it once more in 1893.
Both text and commentary are significant. He is anxious above all things to give plain, tangible
reasons for his conduct. He would have considered it disgraceful to choose from mere impulse
or from any such considerations as would fall under the damnatory epithet 'sentimental.' He
therefore begins in the most prosaic fashion by an attempt to estimate the pecuniary and social
advantages of the different courses open to him. These are in reality the Church and the Bar;
although, by way of exhibiting the openness of his mind, he adds a more perfunctory discussion
of the merits of the medical profession. Upon this his uncle, Henry Venn, had made a sufficient
comment. 'There is a providential obstacle,' he said, 'to your becoming a doctor--you have
not humbug enough.' The argument from these practical considerations leads to no conclusion.
The main substance of the discussion is therefore a consideration of the qualities requisite
for the efficient discharge of clerical or legal duties. A statement of these qualities, he
says, will form the major of his syllogism. The minor will then be, 'I possess or do not possess
them'; and the conclusion will follow, 'I ought to be a clergyman or a lawyer.' Although it
is easy to see that the 'major' is really constructed with a view to its applicability to his
own character, he does not explicitly give any opinions about himself. He digested the results
of the general discussions into thirteen questions which are not stated, though it is clear
that they must have amounted to asking, Have I the desirable aptitudes? He has, however, elaborately
recorded his answers, 'Yes' or 'No,' and noted the precise time and place of answering and
the length of time devoted to considering each. He began the inquiry on June 16, 1850. On September
23 he proceeds to answer the questions which he, acting (as he notes) as judge, had left to
himself as jury. Questions 1 and 2 can be answered 'immediately'; but No. 3 takes two hours.
The 8th, 9th, and 10th were considered together, and are estimated to have taken an hour and
a half, between 7 and 11.30 P.M.; though, as he was in an omnibus for part of the time and
there fell asleep, this must be conjectural. The 13th question could not be answered at all;
but was luckily not important. He had answered the 11th and 12th during a railway journey to
Paris on October 2, and had thereupon made up his mind.

One peculiarity of this performance is the cramped and tortuous mode of expressing himself.
His thoughts are entangled, and are oddly crossed by phrases clearly showing the influence
of Maurice and Coleridge, and, above all, of his father. 'Maurice's books,' he notes in 1865,
'did their utmost to make me squint intellectually about this time, but I never learnt the
trick.' A very different writer of whom he read a good deal at college was Baxter, introduced
to him, I guess, by one of his father's essays. 'What a little prig I was when I made all these
antitheses!' he says in 1865. 'I learnt it of my daddy' is the comment of 1880. 'Was any other
human being,' he asks in 1880, 'ever constructed with such a clumsy, elaborate set of principles,
setting his feelings going as if they were clockwork?' This is the comment upon a passage where
he has twisted his thoughts into a cumbrous and perfectly needless syllogism. He makes a similar
comment on another passage in 1865, but 'I think,' he says in 1880, 'that I was a heavy old
man thirty years ago. Fifteen years ago I was at the height of my strength. I am beginning
to feel now a little more tolerant towards the boy who wrote this than the man who criticised
it in 1865; but he was quite right.' The critic of 1865, I may note, is specially hard upon
the lad of 1850 for his ignorance of sound utilitarian authorities. He writes against an allusion
to Hobbes, 'Ignorant blasphemy of the greatest of English philosophers!' The lad has misstated
an argument from ignorance of Bentham and Austin. 'I had looked at Bentham at the period (says
1865), but felt a holy horror of him.' Harcourt, it is added, 'used to chaff me about him.'
1880 admits that '1865, though a fine fellow, was rather too hot in his Benthamism; 1880 takes
it easier, and considers that 1850 was fairly right, and that his language if not pharisaically
accurate, was plain enough for common-sense purposes.' In fact, both critics admit, and I fully
agree with them, that under all the crabbed phraseology there was a very large substratum of
good sense and sound judgment of men, to which I add of high principle. Among the special qualifications
of a lawyer, the desire for justice takes a prominent place in his argument.

Looking at the whole document from the vantage-ground of later knowledge, the real, though
unconscious, purpose seems to be pretty evident. Fitzjames had felt a repugnance to the clerical
career, and is trying to convince himself that he has reasonable grounds for a feeling which
his father would be slow to approve. There is not the least trace of any objection upon grounds
of dissent from the Articles; though he speaks of responsibility imposed by the solemn profession
required upon ordination. His real reason is explained in a long comparison between the 'simple-minded'
or 'sympathetic' and the 'casuistical' man. They may both be good men; but one of them possesses
what the other does not, a power of at once placing himself in close relations to others, and
uttering his own thoughts eloquently and effectively without being troubled by reserves and
perplexed considerations of the precise meaning of words. He thinks that every clergyman ought
to be ready to undertake the 'cure of souls,' and to be a capable spiritual guide. He has no
right to take up the profession merely with a view to intellectual researches. In fact, he
felt that he was without the qualifications which make a man a popular preacher, if the word
may be used without an offensive connotation. He could argue vigorously, but was not good at
appealing to the feelings, or offering spiritual comfort, or attracting the sympathies of the
poor and ignorant. Substantially I think that he was perfectly right not only in the conclusion
but in the grounds upon which it was based. He was a lawyer by nature, and would have been
a most awkward and cross-grained piece of timber to convert into a priest. He points himself
to such cases as Swift, Warburton, and Sydney Smith to show the disadvantage of a secular man
in a priest's vestments.

When his mind was made up, Fitzjames communicated his decision to his father. The dangerous
illness of 1850 had thrown his father into a nervous condition which made him unable to read
the quaint treatise I have described. He appears, however, to have argued that a man might
fairly take orders with a view to literary work in the line of his profession. Fitzjames yielded
this ground but still held to the main point. His father, though troubled, made no serious
objection, and only asked him to reconsider his decision and to consult Henry Venn. Henry Venn
wrote a letter, some extracts from which are appended to the volume with characteristic comments.
Venn was too sensible a man not to see that Fitzjames had practically made up his mind. I need
only observe that Fitzjames, in reply to some hints in his uncle's letter, observes very emphatically
that a man may be serving God at the bar as in the pulpit. His career was now fixed. 'I never
did a wiser thing in my life,' says 1865, 'than when I determined not to be a clergyman.' 'Amen!'
says 1880, and I am sure that no other year in the calendar would have given a different answer.
'If anyone should ever care to know what sort of man I was then,' says Fitzjames in 1887, 'and,
mutatis mutandis, am still, that paper ought to be embodied by reference in their recollections.'

Fitzjames took a lodging in London, for a year or so, and then joined my father at Westbourne
Terrace. He entered at the Inner Temple, and was duly called to the bar on January 26, 1854.
His legal education, he says, was very bad. He was for a time in the chambers of Mr. (now Lord)
Field, then the leading junior on the Midland Circuit, but it was on the distinct understanding
that he was to receive no direct instruction from his tutor. He was also in the chambers of
a conveyancer. I learnt, he says, 'a certain amount of conveyancing, but in a most mechanical,
laborious, wooden kind of way, which had no advantage at all, except that it gave me some familiarity
with deeds and abstracts. My tutor was a pure conveyancer; so I saw nothing of equity drafting.
I worked very hard with him, however, but I was incapable of being taught and he of teaching.'
The year 1852 was memorable for the Act which altered the old system of special pleading. 'The
new system was by no means a bad one.... I never learnt it, at least not properly, and while
I ought to have been learning, I was still under the spell of an unpractical frame of mind
which inclined me to generalities and vagueness, and had in it a vast deal of laziness. When
I look back on these times, I feel as if I had been only half awake or had not come to my full
growth, though I was just under twenty-five when I was called. How I ever came to be a moderately
successful advocate, still more to be a rather distinguished judge, is to me a mystery. I managed,
however, to get used to legal ways of looking at things and to the form and method of legal
arguments.' He was at the same time going through an apprenticeship to journalism, of which
it will be more convenient to speak in the next chapter. It is enough to say for the present
that his first efforts were awkward and unsuccessful. After he was called to the bar, he read
for the LL.B. examination of the University of London; and not only obtained the degree but
enjoyed his only University success by winning a scholarship. One of his competitors was the
present Sir Mountstuart Grant Duff. This performance is connected with some very important
passages in his development.

He had made some intimate friendships beyond the apostolic circle, of whom Grant Duff was one
of the first. They had already met at the rooms of Charles Henry Pearson, one of my brother's
King's College friends.[60] Grant Duff was for a long time in very close intimacy, and the
friendship lasted for their lives, uninterrupted by political differences. They were fellow-pupils
in Field's chambers, were on circuit together for a short time till Grant Duff gave up the
profession; and their marriages only brought new members into the alliance. I must confine
myself to saying that my brother's frequent allusions prove that he fully appreciated the value
of this friendship. Another equally intimate friendship of the same date was with Henry John
Stephen Smith.[61] Smith was a godson of my uncle, Henry John Stephen. He and his sister had
been from very early years on terms of especial intimacy with our cousins the Diceys. Where
and when his friendship with my brother began I do not precisely know, but it was already very
close. As in some later cases, of which I shall have to speak, the friendship seemed to indicate
that Fitzjames was attracted by complementary rather than similar qualities in the men to whom
he was most attached. No two men of ability could be much less like each other. Smith's talents
were apparently equally adapted for fine classical scholarship and for the most abstract mathematical
investigations. If it was not exactly by the toss of a shilling it was by an almost fortuitous
combination of circumstances that he was decided to take to mathematics, and in that field
won a European reputation. He soared, however, so far beyond ordinary ken that even Europe
must be taken to mean a small set of competent judges who might almost be reckoned upon one's
fingers. But devoted as he was to these abstruse studies, Smith might also be regarded as a
typical example of the finest qualities of Oxford society. His mathematical powers were recognised
by his election to the Savilian professorship in 1860, and the recognition of his other abilities
was sufficiently shown by the attempt to elect him member for the University in 1878. He would
indeed have been elected had the choice been confined to the residents at Oxford. Smith could
discourse upon nothing without showing his powers, and he would have been a singular instance
in the House of Commons of a man respected at once for scholarship and for profound scientific
knowledge, and yet a chosen mouthpiece of the political sentiments of the most cultivated constituency
in the country. The recognition of his genius was no doubt due in great part to the singular
urbanity which made him the pride and delight of all Oxford common rooms. With the gentlest
of manners and a refined and delicate sense of humour, he had powers of launching epigrams
the subtle flavour of which necessarily disappears when detached from their context. But it
was his peculiar charm that he never used his powers to inflict pain. His hearers felt that
he could have pierced the thickest hide or laid bare the ignorance of the most pretentious
learning. But they could not regret a self-restraint which so evidently proceeded from abounding
kindness of heart. Smith's good nature led him to lend too easy an ear to applications for
the employment of his abilities upon tasks to which his inferiors would have been competent.
I do not know whether it was to diffidence and reserve or to the gentleness which shrinks from
dispelling illusions that another peculiarity is to be attributed. On religious matters, says
his biographer, he was 'absolutely reticent'; he would discuss such topics indeed, but without
ever mentioning his own faith.

I mention this because it is relevant to his relations with my brother. Fitzjames was always
in the habit of expressing his own convictions in the most downright and uncompromising fashion.
He loved nothing better than an argument upon first principles. His intimacy with Smith was
confirmed by many long rambles together; and for many years he made a practice of spending
a night at Smith's house at Oxford on his way to and from the Midland Circuit. There, as he
says, 'we used to sit up talking ethics and religion till 2 or 3 A.M.' I could not however,
if I wished, throw any light upon Smith's views; Smith, he says in 1862, is a most delightful
companion when he has got over his 'reserve'; and a year later he says that Smith is 'nearly
the only man who cordially and fully sympathises with my pet views.' What were the pet views
is more than I can precisely say. I infer, however, from a phrase or two that Smith's conversation
was probably sceptical in the proper sense; that is, that he discussed first principles as
open questions, and suggested logical puzzles. But my brother also admits that he never came
to know what was Smith's personal position. He always talked 'in the abstract' or 'in the historical
vein,' and 'seemed to have fewer personal plans, wishes and objects of any kind than almost
any man I have ever known.'

These talks at any rate, with distinguished Oxford men, must have helped to widen my brother's
intellectual horizon. They had looked at the problems of the day from a point of view to which
the apostles seem to have been comparatively blind. Another influence had a more obvious result.
Fitzjames had to read Stephen's commentaries and Bentham[62] for the London scholarship. Bentham
now ceased to be an object of holy horror. My brother, in fact, became before long what he
always remained, a thorough Benthamite with certain modifications. It was less a case of influence,
however, than of 'elective affinity' of intellect. The account of Fitzjames's experience at
Cambridge recalls memories of the earlier group who discussed utilitarianism under the leadership
of Charles Austin and looked up to James Mill as their leader. The hatred for 'sentimentalism'
and 'vague generalities' and the indifference to mere poetical and literary interests were
common to both. The strong points of Benthamism may, I think, be summed up in two words. It
meant reverence for facts. Knowledge was to be sought not by logical jugglery but by scrupulous
observation and systematic appeals to experience. Whether in grasping at solid elements of
knowledge Benthamists let drop elements of equal value, though of less easy apprehension, is
not to my purpose. But to a man whose predominant faculty was strong common sense, who was
absolutely resolved that whatever paths he took should lead to realities, and traverse solid
ground instead of following some will-o'-the-wisp through metaphysical quagmires amidst the
delusive mists of a lawless imagination, there was an obvious fascination in the Bentham mode
of thought. It must be added, too, that at this time J. S. Mill, the inheritor of Bentham's
influences, was at the height of his great reputation. The young men who graduated in 1850
and the following ten years found their philosophical teaching in Mill's 'Logic,' and only
a few daring heretics were beginning to pick holes in his system. Fitzjames certainly became
a disciple and before long an advocate of these principles.

I find one or two other indications of disturbing studies. He says in a letter that Greg's
'Creed of Christendom' (published in 1851) was the first book of the kind which he read without
the sense that he was trespassing on forbidden ground. He told me that he had once studied
Lardner's famous 'Credibility of the Gospel History,' to which Greg may not improbably have
sent him. The impression made upon him was (though the phrase was used long afterwards) that
Lardner's case 'had not a leg to stand upon.' From the Benthamite point of view, the argument
for Christianity must be simply the historical evidence. Paley, for whom Fitzjames had always
a great respect, put the argument most skilfully in this shape. But if the facts are insufficient
to a lawyer's eye, what is to happen? For reasons which will partly appear, Fitzjames did not
at present draw the conclusions which to many seem obvious. It took him, in fact, years to
develope distinctly new conclusions. But from this time his philosophical position was substantially
that of Bentham, Mill, and the empiricists, while the superstructure of belief was a modified
evangelicism.

My father's liberality of sentiment and the sceptical tendencies which lay, in spite of himself,
in his intellectual tendencies, had indeed removed a good deal of the true evangelical dogmatism.
Fitzjames for a time, as I have intimated, seems to have sought for a guide in Maurice. He
had been attracted when at King's College by Maurice's personal qualities, and when, in 1853,
Maurice had to leave King's College on account of his views about eternal punishment, Fitzjames
took a leading part in getting up a testimonial from the old pupils of his teacher. When he
became a law student he naturally frequented Maurice's sermons at Lincoln's Inn. Nothing could
be more impressive than the manner of the preacher. His voice often trembled with emotion,
and he spoke as one who had a solemn message of vast importance to mankind. But what was the
message which could reach a hard-headed young 'lawyer by nature' with a turn for Benthamism?
Fitzjames gives a kind of general form of Maurice's sermons. First would come an account of
some dogma as understood by the vulgar. Tom Paine could not put it more pithily or expressively.
Then his hearers were invited to look at the plain words of Scripture. Do they not mean this
or that, he would ask, which is quite different to what they had been made to mean? My answer
would have been, says Fitzjames, that his questions were 'mere confused hints,' which required
all kinds of answers, but mostly the answer 'No, not at all.' Then, however, came Maurice's
own answers to them. About this time his hearer used to become drowsy, with 'an indistinct
consciousness of a pathetic quavering set of entreaties to believe what, when it was intelligible,
was quite unsatisfactory.' Long afterwards he says somewhere that it was 'like watching the
struggles of a drowning creed.' Fitzjames, however, fancied for a time that he was more or
less of a Mauricean.

From one of his friends, the Rev. J. Llewelyn Davies, I have some characteristic recollections
of the time. Mr. Davies was a college friend, and remembers his combativeness and his real
underlying warmth of feeling. He remembers how, in 1848, Fitzjames was confident that the 'haves'
could beat the 'have nots,' 'set his teeth' and exclaimed, 'Let them come on.' Mr. Davies was
now engaged in clerical work at the East-end of London. My brother took pleasure in visiting
his friend there, learnt something of the ways of the district, and gave a lecture to a Limehouse
audience. He attended a coffee-house discussion upon the existence of God, and exposed the
inconclusiveness of the atheistic conclusions. On another occasion he went with 'Tom,' now
Judge Hughes, to support Mr. Davies, who addressed a crowd in Leman Street one Sunday night.
Hughes endeavoured to suppress a boy who was disposed for mischief. The boy threw himself on
the ground, with Hughes holding him down. Fitzjames, raising a huge stick, plunged into the
thick of the crowd. No one, however, stood forth as a champion of disorder; and Mr. Davies,
guarded by his stalwart supporters, was able to speak to a quiet audience. Fitzjames, says
Mr. Davies, was always ready for an argument in those days. He did not seek for a mere dialectical
triumph; but he was resolved to let no assumption pass unchallenged, and, above all, to disperse
sentiment and to insist upon what was actual and practical. He wrote to Mr. Davies in reference
to some newspaper controversies: 'As to playing single-stick without being ever hit myself,
I have no sort of taste for it; the harder you hit the better. I always hit my hardest.' 'Some
people profess,' he once said to the same friend, 'that the sermon on the Mount is the only
part of Christianity which they can accept. It is to me the hardest part to accept.' In fact,
he did not often turn the second cheek. He said in the same vein that he should prefer the
whole of the Church service to be made 'colder and less personal, and to revive the days of
Paley and Sydney Smith.' (The Church of the eighteenth century, only without the disturbing
influence of Wesley, was, as he once remarked long afterwards, his ideal.) 'After quoting these
words,' says Mr. Davies in conclusion, 'I may be permitted to add those with which he closed
the note written to me before he went to India (November 4, 1869), "God bless you. It's not
a mere phrase, nor yet an unmeaning or insincere one in my mouth--affectionately yours."'

I shall venture to quote in this connection a letter from my father, which needs a word of
preface. Among his experiments in journalism, Fitzjames had taken to writing for the 'Christian
Observer,' an ancient, and, I imagine, at the time, an almost moribund representative of the
evangelical party. Henry Venn had suggested, it seems, that Fitzjames might become editor.
Fitzjames appears to have urged that his theology was not of the desired type. He consulted
my father, however, who admitted the difficulty to be insuperable, but thought for a moment
that they might act together as editor and sub-editor. My father says in his letters (August
4 and 8, 1854): 'I adhere with no qualifications of which I am conscious to the theological
views of my old Clapham friends. You, I suppose, are an adherent of Mr. Maurice. To myself
it appears that he is nothing more than a great theological rhetorician, and that his only
definite and appreciable meaning is that of wedding the gospel to some form of philosophy,
if so to conceal its baldness. But Paul of Tarsus many ages ago forbade the banns.' In a second
letter he says that there does not seem to be much real difference between Fitzjames's creed
and his own. 'It seems to me quite easy to have a theological theory quite complete and systematic
enough for use; and scarcely possible to reach such a theory with any view to speculation--easy,
I mean, and scarcely possible for the unlearned class to which I belong. The learned are, I
trust and hope, far more fixed and comprehensive in their views than they seem to me to be,
but if I dared trust to my own observation I should say that they are determined to erect into
a science a series of propositions which God has communicated to us as so many detached and,
to us, irreconcilable verities; the common link or connecting principle of which He has not
seen fit to communicate. I am profoundly convinced of the consistency of all the declarations
of Scripture; but I am as profoundly convinced of my own incapacity to perceive that they are
consistent. I can receive them each in turn, and to some extent I can, however feebly, draw
nutriment from each of them. To blend them one with another into an harmonious or congruous
whole surpasses my skill, or perhaps my diligence. But what then? I am here not to speculate
but to repent, to believe and to obey; and I find no difficulty whatever in believing, each
in turn, doctrines which yet seem to me incompatible with each other. It is in this sense and
to this extent that I adopt the whole of the creed called evangelical. I adopt it as a regulator
of the affections, as a rule of life and as a quietus, not as a stimulant to inquiry. So, I
gather, do you, and if so, I at least have no right to quarrel with you on that account. Only,
if you and I are unscientific Christians, let us be patient and reverent towards those whose
deeper minds or more profound inquiries, or more abundant spiritual experience, may carry them
through difficulties which surpass our strength.'

My brother's reverence for his father probably prevented him from criticising this letter as
he would have criticised a similar utterance from another teacher. He has, however, endorsed
it--I cannot say whether at the time--with a tolerably significant remark. 'This,' he says,
'is in the nature of a surrebutter; only the parties, instead of being at issue, are agreed.
My opinion as to his opinions is that they are a sort of humility which comes so very near
to irony that I do not know how to separate them. Fancy old Venn and Simeon having had more
capacious minds than Sir James (credat Christianus).'

The 'Christian Observer' was at this time edited by J. W. Cunningham, vicar of Harrow, who
was trying to save it from extinction. He had been educated at Mr. Jowett's, at Little Dunham
and at Cambridge, and had been a curate of John Venn, of Clapham. He belonged, therefore, by
right, to the evangelical party, and had been more or less known to my father for many years.
His children were specially intimate with my aunt, Mrs. Batten, whose husband was a master
at Harrow. Emelia Batten, now Mrs. Russell Gurney, was a friend of Cunningham's children, and
at this time was living in London, and on very affectionate terms with Fitzjames. He used to
pour out to her his difficulties in the matter of profession choosing. There were thus various
links between the Cunninghams and ourselves. Mr. Cunningham happened to call upon my father
at Norwich, in the summer of 1850. With him came his eldest daughter by his second wife, Mary
Richenda Cunningham, and there my brother saw her for the first time. He met her again in company
with Miss Batten, on March 2, 1851, as he records, and thereupon fell in love, 'though in a
quiet way at first. This feeling has never been disturbed in the slightest degree. It has widened,
deepened, and strengthened itself without intermission from that day to this' (January 3, 1887).

The connection with the 'Christian Observer' was of value, not for the few guineas earned,
but as leading to occasional visits to Harrow. Fitzjames says that he took great pains with
his articles, and probably improved his style, though 'kind old Mr. Cunningham' had to add
a few sentences to give them the proper tone. They got him some credit from the small circle
which they reached, but that was hardly his main object. 'This period of my life closed by
my being engaged on November 11, 1854, at Brighton, just eighteen years to the day after I
went to school there, and by my being married on April 19, 1855, at Harrow church, where my
father and mother were married forty years before.' The marriage, he says, 'was a blessed revelation
to me. It turned me from a rather heavy, torpid youth into the happiest of men, and, for many
years, one of the most ardent and energetic. It was like the lines in Tennyson--

   A touch, a kiss, the charm was snapped
   .    .    .    .    .    .    .
   And all the long-pent stream of life
   Dashed downward in a cataract.

I am surprised to find that, when I look back to that happiest and most blessed of days through
the haze of upwards of thirty-two years, I do not feel in the least degree disposed to be pathetic
over the lapse of life or the near approach of old age. I have found life sweet, bright, glorious.
I should dearly like to live again; but I am not afraid, and I hope, when the time comes, I
shall not be averse to die.'

At this point the autobiographical fragment ceases. I am glad that it has enabled me to use
his own words in speaking of his marriage. No one, I think, can doubt their sincerity, nor
can anyone who was a witness of his subsequent life think that they over-estimate the results
to his happiness. I need only add that the marriage had the incidental advantage of providing
him with a new brother and sister; for Henry (now Sir Henry) Stewart Cunningham, and Emily
Cunningham (now Lady Egerton), were from this time as dear to him as if they had been connected
by the closest tie of blood relationship.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 49: I have quoted a few phrases from it in the previous chapter.]

[Footnote 50: He says the 11th, and mentions more than once a date which afterwards became
interesting for another reason. The date given by my mother at the time must be accepted; but
this is the only error I have found in my brother's statements--and it is not of profound importance.]

[Footnote 51: I have to thank Mr. Arthur D. Coleridge, my brother's schoolfellow and lifelong
friend for a letter containing his recollections of this period.]

[Footnote 52: Macvey Napier correspondence.]

[Footnote 53: My father was sworn of H. M. Privy Council October 30, 1847, and on April 15,
1848, appointed by her Majesty in Council Member of the Committee of Privy Council for the
consideration of all matters relating to trade and foreign plantations (Sir James Stephen and
Sir Edward Ryan were the last two appointed under that form and title); made K.C.B. April 27,
1848, and finally retired on pension May 3, 1848, having been on sick leave since October 1847.]

[Footnote 54: Kindly sent to me by Mr. Montague Butler, of Pembroke College, Cambridge.]

[Footnote 55: See an article by W. D. Christie in Macmillan's Magazine for November 1864.]

[Footnote 56: Maine was born August 22, 1822, and therefore six years and a half older than
Fitzjames.]

[Footnote 57: He was proposed by Maine on October 30, and elected November 13, 1847.]

[Footnote 58: The Life of Julian Fane, by his intimate friend Lord Lytton, was published in
1871. It includes some account of the 'apostles.']

[Footnote 59: It refers, I suppose, to the son's failure to get into the first class in the
college examination at Christmas 1848.]

[Footnote 60: Pearson died in 1894, after a career in England and Australia much troubled by
ill health. His book upon National Character, published in 1803, first made his remarkable
abilities generally known, though he had written very ably upon history.]

[Footnote 61: Born November 2, 1826, d. February 9, 1883. See the memoir by C. H. Pearson prefixed
to the collection of Smith's Mathematical Papers (1894).]

[Footnote 62: I guess Dumont's 'Principles.']

CHAPTER III

THE BAR AND JOURNALISM

I. INTRODUCTORY

I have traced at some length the early development of my brother's mind and character. Henceforward
I shall have to describe rather the manifestation than the modification of his qualities. He
had reached full maturity, although he had still much to learn in the art of turning his abilities
to account. His 'indolence' and 'self-indulgence,' if they had ever existed, had disappeared
completely and for ever. His life henceforward was of the most strenuous. He had become a strong
man--strong with that peculiar combination of mental and moral force which reveals itself in
masculine common sense. His friends not unfrequently compared him to Dr. Johnson, and, much
as the two men differed in some ways, there was a real ground for the comparison. Fitzjames
might be called pre-eminently a 'moralist,' in the old-fashioned sense in which that term is
applied to Johnson. He was profoundly interested, that is, in the great problems of life and
conduct. His views were, in this sense at least, original--that they were the fruit of his
own experience, and of independent reflection. Most of us are so much the product of our surroundings
that we accept without a question the ordinary formulæ which we yet hold so lightly that the
principles which nominally govern serve only to excuse our spontaneous instincts. The stronger
nature comes into collision with the world, disputes even the most current commonplaces, and
so becomes conscious of its own idiosyncrasies, and accepts only what is actually forced upon
it by stress of facts and hard logic. The process gives to the doctrines which, with others,
represent nothing but phrases, something of the freshness and vividness of personal discoveries.
Probably ninety-nine men in a hundred assume without conscious inconsistency the validity both
of the moral code propounded in the Sermon on the Mount, and of the code which regulates the
actual struggle for life. They profess to be at once gentlemen and Christians, and when the
two codes come into conflict, take the one which happens to sanction their wishes. They do
not even observe that there is any conflict. Fitzjames could not take things so lightly. Even
in his infancy he had argued the first principles of ethics, and worked out his conclusions
by conflicts with schoolboy bullies. It is intelligible, therefore, that, as Mr. Davies reports,
the Sermon on the Mount should be his great difficulty in accepting Christianity. Its spirit
might be, in a sense, beautiful; but it would not fit the facts of life. So, he observes, in
his autobiographical fragment, that one of his difficulties was his want of sympathy for the
kind of personal enthusiasm with which his father would speak of Jesus Christ. He tried hard
to cultivate the same feelings, but could not do so with perfect sincerity.

A man with such distinct and vivid convictions in the place of mere conventional formulæ was
naturally minded to utter them. He was constantly provoked by the popular acceptance of what
appeared to him shallow and insincere theories, and desired to expose the prevailing errors.
But the 'little preacher' of three years old had discovered at one and twenty that the pulpit
of the ordinary kind was not congenial to him. His force of mind did not facilitate a quick
and instinctive appreciation of other people's sentiments. When he came into contact with a
man whose impressions of the world were opposed to his own, he was inclined to abandon even
the attempt to account for the phenomenon. A man incapable of seeing things in the proper light
was hardly worth considering at all. Fitzjames was therefore not sympathetic in the sense of
having an imagination ready to place him at other men's point of view. In another sense his
sympathies were exceedingly powerful. No man had stronger or more lasting affections. Once
attached to a man, he believed in him with extraordinary tenacity and would defend him uncompromisingly
through thick and thin. If, like Johnson, he was a little too contemptuous of the sufferings
of the over-sensitive, and put them down to mere affectation or feeblemindedness, he could
sympathise most strongly with any of the serious sorrows and anxieties of those whom he loved,
and was easily roused to stern indignation where he saw sorrow caused by injustice. I shall
mention here one instance, to which, for obvious reasons, I can only refer obscurely; though
it occupied him at intervals during many years. Shortly after being called to the bar he had
agreed to take the place of a friend as trustee for a lady, to whom he was then personally
unknown. A year or two later he discovered that she and her husband were the objects of a strange
persecution from a man in a respectable position who conceived himself to have a certain hold
over them. Fitzjames's first action was to write a letter to the persecutor expressing in the
most forcible English the opinion that the gentleman's proper position was not among the respectable
but at one of her Majesty's penal settlements. His opinion was carefully justified by a legal
statement of the facts upon which it rested, and the effect was like the discharge of the broadside
of an old ship of the line upon a hostile frigate. The persecutor was silenced at once and
for life. Fitzjames, meanwhile, found that the money affairs of the pair whose champion he
had become were deeply embarrassed. He took measures, which were ultimately successful, for
extricating them from their difficulties; and until the lady's death, which took place only
a year or two before his own, was her unwearied counsellor and protector in many subsequent
difficulties. Though I can give no details, I may add that he was repaid by the warm gratitude
of the persons concerned, and certainly never grudged the thought and labour which he had bestowed
upon the case.

Fitzjames having made up his mind that he was a 'lawyer by nature,' had become a lawyer by
profession. Yet the circumstances of his career, as well as his own disposition, prevented
him from being absorbed in professional duties. For the fifteen years which succeeded his call
to the bar he was in fact following two professions; he was at once a barrister and a very
active journalist. This causes some difficulty to his biographer. My account of his literary
career will have to occupy the foreground, partly because the literary story bears most directly
and clearly the impress of his character, and partly because, as will be seen, it was more
continuous. I must, however, warn my readers against a possible illusion of perspective. To
Fitzjames himself the legal career always represented the substantive, and the literary career
the adjective. Circumstances made journalism highly convenient, but his literary ambition was
always to be auxiliary to his legal ambition. It would, of course, have been injurious to his
prospects at the bar had it been supposed that the case was inverted; and as a matter of fact
his eyes were always turned to the summit of that long hill of difficulty which has to be painfully
climbed by every barrister not helped by special interest or good fortune. This much must be
clearly understood, but I must also notice two qualifications. In the first place, though he
became a journalist for convenience, he was in some sense too a journalist by nature. He found,
that is, in the press a channel for a great many of the reflections which were constantly filling
his mind and demanding some outlet. He wrote for money, and without the least affectation of
indifference to money; but the occupation enabled him also to gratify a spontaneous and powerful
impulse. And, in the next place, professional success at the bar was in his mind always itself
connected with certain literary projects. Almost from the first he was revolving schemes for
a great book, or rather for a variety of books. The precise scheme changed from time to time;
but the subject of these books is always to be somewhere in the province which is more or less
common to law and ethics. Sometimes he is inclined to the more purely technical side, but always
with some reference to the moral basis of law; and sometimes he leans more to philosophical
and theological problems, but always with some reference to his professional experience and
to legal applications. So, for example, he expresses a desire (in a letter written, alas! after
the power of executing such schemes had disappeared) to write upon the theory of evidence;
but he points out that the same principles which underlie the English laws of evidence are
also applicable to innumerable questions belonging to religious, philosophical, and scientific
inquiries. Now the position of a judge or an eminent lawyer appeared to him from the first
to be desirable for other reasons indeed, but also for the reason that it would enable him
to gain experience and to speak with authority. At moments he had thoughts of abandoning law
for literature; although the thoughts disappeared as soon as his professional prospects became
brighter. His ideal was always such a position as would enable him to make an impression upon
the opinions of his countrymen in that region where legal and ethical speculation are both at home.

II. FIRST YEARS AT THE BAR

I will begin by some general remarks upon his legal career, which will thus be understood as
underlying his literary career. Fitzjames was called to the bar of the Inner Temple on January
26, 1854. He had his first brief soon afterwards at the Central Criminal Court, where twenty-five
years later he also made his first appearance as a judge. In the same year he joined the Midland
Circuit. He had no legal connections upon that or any other circuit. His choice was determined
by the advice of Kenneth Macaulay, then leader of the Midland Circuit. He afterwards referred
to this as one of the few cases in which good advice had really been of some use. In a letter
written in July 1855 he observes that the Midland is the nearest approach to the old circuits
as they were before the days of railways. It was so far from London that the barristers had
to go their rounds regularly between the different towns instead of coming down for the day.
He describes the party who were thus brought together twice a year, gossiping and arguing all
day, with plenty of squabbling and of 'rough joking and noisy high spirits' among the idler,
that is, much the larger part. He admits that the routine is rather wearisome: the same judgments
and speeches seem to repeat themselves 'like dreams in a fever,' and 'droves of wretched over-driven
heavy people come up from the prison into a kind of churchwardens' pew,' when the same story
is repeated over and over again. And yet he is profoundly interested. Matters turn up which
'seem to me infinitely more interesting than the most interesting play or novel,' and you get
strange glimpses of the ways of thinking and living among classes otherwise unknown to you.
These criminal courts, he says in another letter, are a 'never-ending source of interest and
picturesqueness for me. The little kind of meat-safe door through which the prisoners are called
up, and the attendant demon of a gaoler who summons them up from the vasty deep and sends them
back again to the vasty deep for terms of from one week to six years, have a sort of mysterious
attraction.'

Mr. Franklin Lushington, who was my brother's contemporary on the circuit and ever afterwards
an intimate friend, has kindly given me his impressions of this period. It would have been
difficult, he says, to find a circuit 'on which the first steps of the path that opens on general
eminence in the profession were slower to climb than on the Midland.' It was a small circuit,
'attended by some seventy or eighty barristers and divided into two or three independent and
incompatible sets of Quarter Sessions, among which after a year or so of tentative experience
it was necessary to choose one set and stand by it. Fitzjames and I both chose the round of
the Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, and Derbyshire sessions; which involved a good deal of travelling
and knocking about in some out-of-the-way country districts, where the sessions bar is necessarily
thrown into circumstances of great intimacy. Even when a sessions or assize reputation was
gained, it was and remained intensely local. The intricate points relative to settlements and
poor-law administration, which had provided numerous appeals to the higher courts in a previous
generation, had dwindled gradually to nothing. Even the most remarkable success, slowly and
painfully won in one county, might easily fail to produce an effect in the next, or to give
any occasion for passing through the thickset hedge which parts provincial from metropolitan
notoriety. The most popular and admired advocate in the Lincolnshire courts for many years
was our dear friend F. Flowers, afterwards a police magistrate, one of the wittiest, most ingenious,
and most eloquent of the bar. Though year after year he held every Lincolnshire jury in the
hollow of his hand, and frequently rose to a strain of powerful and passionate oratory which
carried away himself and his hearers--not Lincolnshire folk only--in irresistible sympathy
with his cause, Flowers remained to his last day on circuit utterly unknown and untried in
the adjacent shires of Derby and Nottingham.'

A circuit bar, adds Mr. Lushington, 'may be roughly divided into three classes: those who are
determined to make themselves heard; those who wish to be heard if God calls; and those who
without objecting to be heard wish to have their pastime whether they are heard or not. Fitzjames
was in the first category, and from the first did his utmost to succeed, always in the most
legitimate way.' No attorney, looking at the rows of wigs in the back benches, could fail to
recognise in him a man who would give his whole mind to the task before him. 'It was natural
to him to look the industrious apprentice that he really was; always craving for work of all
kinds and ready at a moment's notice to turn from one task to another. I used to notice him
at one moment busy writing an article in complete abstraction and at the next devouring at
full speed the contents of a brief just put into his hand, and ready directly to argue the
case as if it had been in his hand all day.'

Fitzjames not long afterwards expressed his own judgment of the society of which he had become
a member. The English bar, he says,[63] 'is exactly like a great public school, the boys of
which have grown older and have exchanged boyish for manly objects. There is just the same
rough familiarity, the same general ardour of character, the same kind of unwritten code of
morals and manners, the same kind of public opinion expressed in exactly the same blunt, unmistakable
manner.' It would astonish outsiders if they could hear the remarks sometimes addressed by
the British barrister to his learned brother--especially on circuit. The bar, he concludes,
'are a robust, hard-headed, and rather hard-handed set of men, with an imperious, audacious,
combative turn of mind,' sometimes, though rarely, capable of becoming eloquent. Their learning
is 'multifarious, ill-digested and ill-arranged, but collected with wonderful patience and
labour, with a close exactness and severity of logic, unequalled anywhere else, and with a
most sagacious adaptation to the practical business of life.'

Fitzjames's position in this bigger public school had at any rate one advantage over his old
Etonian days. There was no general prejudice against him to be encountered; and in the intellectual
'rough and tumble' which replaced the old school contests his force of mind was respected by
everyone and very warmly appreciated by a chosen few. Among his closest intimates were Mr.
Lushington and his old schoolfellow Mr. Arthur Coleridge, who became Clerk of Assize upon the
circuit. At starting he had also the society of his friend Grant Duff. They walked together
in the summer of 1855, and visited the Trappist Monastery in Charnwood Forest. There they talked
to a shaven monk in his 'dreary white flannel dress,' bound with a black strap. They moralised
as they returned, and Fitzjames thought on the whole that his own life was wholesomer than
the monastic. He hopes, however, that the monk and his companions may 'come right,' as 'no
doubt they will if they are honest and true.' 'I suppose one may say that God is in convents
and churches as well as in law courts or chambers--though not to my eyes so palpably.'

Sir M. Grant Duff left the circuit after a year or two; but Fitzjames found a few other congenial
companions with whom he could occasionally walk and often argue to his heart's content. Among
his best friends was Kenneth Macaulay, who became a leader on the circuit, and who did his
best to introduce Fitzjames to practice. Mr. Arthur Coleridge, too, was able to suggest to
the judges that Fitzjames should be appointed to defend prisoners not provided with counsel.
This led by degrees to his becoming well known in the Crown Court, although civil business
was slow in presenting itself. Several of the judges took early notice of him. In 1856 he has
some intercourse with Lord Campbell, then Chief Justice, and with Chief Baron Pollock, both
of them friends of his father. He was 'overpowered with admiration' at Campbell's appearance.
Campbell was 'thickset as a navvy, as hard as nails,' still full of vigour at the age of seventy-six,
about the best judge on the bench now, and looking fit for ten or twelve years' more of work.[64]
Pollock was a fine lively old man, thin as a threadpaper, straight as a ramrod, and full of
indomitable vivacity. The judges, however, who formed the highest opinion of him and gave him
the most encouragement were Lord Bramwell and Willes.

In 1856 he observes that he was about to take a walk with Alfred Wills of the 'High Alps.'
This was the present Mr. Justice Wills; who has also been kind enough to give me some recollections
which are to the purpose in this place. Wills was called to the bar in 1851 and joined the
Midland Circuit, but attended a different set of quarter sessions. He saw a good deal of Fitzjames,
however, at the assizes; and though not especially intimate, they always maintained very friendly
relations. The impression made upon Wills in these early years was that Fitzjames was a solitary
and rather unsocial person. He was divided from his fellows, as he had been divided from his
companions at school and college, by his absorption in the speculations which interested him
so profoundly. 'He was much more learned, much better read, and had a much more massive mind
than most of us, and our ways and talks must have seemed petty and trivial to him.' Though
there were 'some well-read men and good scholars among us, even they had little taste for the
ponderous reading in which Fitzjames delighted.' Wills remembers his bringing Hobbes' 'Leviathan'
with him, and recreating himself with studying it after his day's work. To such studies I shall
have to refer presently, and I will only say, parenthetically, that if Mr. Justice Wills would
read Hobbes, he would find, though he tells me that he dislikes metaphysics, that the old philosopher
is not half so repulsive as he looks. Still, a constant absorption in these solid works no
doubt gave to his associates the impression that Fitzjames lived in a different world from
theirs. He generally took his walks by himself, Coleridge being the most frequent interrupter
of his solitude. He would be met pounding along steadily, carrying, often twirling, a 'very
big stick,' which now and then came down with a blow--upon the knuckles, I take it, of some
imaginary blockhead on the other side--muttering to himself, 'immersed in thought and with
a fierce expression of concentrated study.' He did not often come to mess, and when he did
found some things of which he did not approve. Barristers, it appears, are still capable of
indulging in such tastes as were once gratified by the game of 'High Jinks,' celebrated in
'Guy Mannering.' The Circuit Court was the scene of a good deal of buffoonery. It was customary
to appoint a 'crier'; and Fitzjames, 'to his infinite disgust, was elected on account of his
powerful voice. He stood it once or twice, but at last broke out in a real fury, and declared
he would never come to the Circuit Court again, calling it by very strong names. If he had
been a less powerful man I am sure that there would have been a fight; but no one cared to
tackle that stalwart frame, and I am not sure that the assailant would have come out of the
fray alive if he had.' The crisis of this warfare appears to have happened in 1864, when Yorkshire
was added to the Midland Circuit, and an infusion of barristers from the Northern Circuit consequently
took place. It seems that the manners and customs of the northerners were decidedly less civilised
than those of their brethren. A hard fight had to be fought before they could be raised to
the desired level. In 1867 I find that Fitzjames proposed the abolition of the Circuit Court.
He was defeated by twenty votes to fifteen; and marvels at the queer bit of conservatism cropping
up in an unexpected place. In spite of these encounters, Fitzjames not only formed some very
warm friendships on circuit, but enjoyed many of the social meetings, and often recurred to
them in later years. He only despised tomfoolery more emphatically than his neighbours. Nobody,
indeed, could be a more inconvenient presence where breaches of decency or good manners were
to be apprehended. I vividly remember an occasion upon which he was one of a little party of
young men on a walking tour. A letter read out by one of them had the phrase, 'What a pity
about Mrs. A.!' Someone suggested a conjectural explanation not favourable to Mrs. A.'s character.
He immediately came in for a stern denunciation from Fitzjames which reduced us all to awestruck
silence, and, I hope, gave the speaker an unforgetable lesson as to the duty of not speaking
lightly in matters affecting female reputation. He collapsed; and I do not recollect that he
ventured any comment upon a letter of the next morning which proved his conjecture to be correct.
The principle was the same.

These characteristics, as I gather both from Mr. Justice Wills and from Mr. Lushington, caused
Fitzjames to be the object rather of respect than of general popularity. His friends could
not fail to recognise the depth of his real kindness of heart. Mr. Justice Wills refers to
one little incident of which my brother often spoke. Fitzjames visited him at the 'Eagle's
Nest,' in 1862, and there found him engaged in nursing Auguste Balmat, the famous guide, who
was dying of typhoid fever. The natives were alarmed, and the whole labour of nursing fell
upon Mr. and Mrs. Wills. Fitzjames, on his arrival, relieved them so far as he could, and enabled
them to get some nights' sleep. I remember his description of himself, sitting up by the dying
man, with a volume of 'Pickwick' and a vessel of holy water, and primed with some pious sentences
to be repeated if the last agony should come on. It was a piece of grim tragedy with a touch
of the grotesque which impressed him greatly. 'I never knew anyone,' says Mr. Justice Wills,
'to whom I should have gone, if I wanted help, with more certainty of getting it.' When Fitzjames
was on the bench, he adds, and he had been himself disappointed of reaching the same position
under annoying circumstances, he had to appear in a patent case before his friend. Fitzjames
came down to look at a model, and Wills said, 'Your Lordship will see,' &c. 'He got hold of
the hand next his own, gave me a squeeze which I did not forget in a hurry, and whispered,
"If you ever call me 'my lordship' again, I shall say something!"' That hand-grip, indeed,
as Wills remarks, was eminently characteristic. It was like the squeeze of a vice, and often
conveyed the intimation of a feeling which shrank from verbal expression.

It is plain enough that a man of such character would not find some difficulties smoothed for
him. He could not easily learn the lesson of 'suffering fools gladly.' He formed pretty strong
views about a man and could express them frankly. The kind of person whom Carlyle called a
windbag, and to whom he applied equally vigorous epithets, was especially obnoxious to him,
however dexterous might be such a man's manipulation of difficult arguments. His talent, too,
scarcely lent itself to the art of indirect intimations of his opinions. He remarks himself,
in one of his letters, that he is about as clever at giving hints as the elder Osborne in 'Vanity
Fair'; of whom Thackeray says that he would give what he called a 'hint' to a footman to leave
his service by kicking the man downstairs. And, therefore, I suspect that when Fitzjames considered
someone--even a possible client--to be a fool or a humbug, his views might be less concealed
than prudence would have dictated. 'When once he had an opportunity of showing his capacities,'
says Mr. Lushington, 'the most critical solicitor could not fail to be satisfied of his vigour
and perseverance; his quick comprehension of, and his close attention to detail; and his gift
in speaking of clear common-sense and forcible expression, free from wearisome redundancy or
the suggestion of an irony that might strike above the heads of the jury. He gained the confidence
of clients of all sorts--some of curious, impulsive, and not over-strict character, who might,
perhaps, have landed a weaker or less rigidly high-principled advocate in serious blunders;
and I do not think that he ever lost a client whom he had once gained.' But the first step
was not easy. His solitary ways, his indifference to the lighter pursuits of his companions,
and his frequent absorption in other studies, made him slow to form connections and prevented
him from acquiring early, if he ever fully acquired, the practical instinct which qualifies
a man for the ordinary walk of law courts. When, says Mr. Justice Wills, 'he got you by yourself
in a corner--with no opportunity of dancing round him--in a single combat of stroke for stroke,
real business, conditions defined and mastered, he was a most formidable antagonist, mercilessly
logical, severely powerful, with the hand of a giant.' But he was, says the same critic, rather
too logical for the common tricks of the trade, which are learnt by a long and persistent handling
of ordinary business. He did not understand what would 'go down,' and what was of 'such a character
that people would drive a coach and six through precedents and everything else in order to
get rid of it.' He was irritated by an appeal to practical consequences from what he considered
to be established principles. Then, too, his massive intellect made him wanting in pliability.
'He could not change front in presence of the enemy'; and rather despised the adaptations by
which clever lawyers succeed in introducing new law under a pretence of applying old precedents.
As I have already said, he was disgusted with the mere technicalities of the law, and the conversion
of what ought to be a logical apparatus for the discovery of truth into an artificial system
of elaborate and superfluous formalities. His great ambition was (in his favourite expression)
to 'boil down' the law into a few broad common-sense principles. He was, therefore, not well
qualified for some branches of legal practice, and inclined to regard skill of the technical
kind with suspicion, if not with actual dislike. Upon this, however, I shall have to dwell
hereafter.

Meanwhile, he was deeply interested in the criminal cases, which were constantly presenting
ethical problems, and affording strange glimpses into the dark side of human nature. Such crimes
showed the crude, brutal passions, which lie beneath the decent surface of modern society,
and are fascinating to the student of human nature. He often speaks of the strangely romantic
interest of the incidents brought to light in the 'State Trials'; and in these early days he
studied some of the famous cases, such as those of Palmer and Dove, with a professional as
well as a literary interest. In later life he avoided such stories; but at this period he occasionally
made a text of them for newspaper articles, and was, perhaps, tempted to adopt theories of
the case too rapidly. This was thought to be the case in regard to one Bacon, who was tried
in Lincoln in the summer of 1857. The case was one to which Fitzjames certainly attached great
importance, and I will briefly mention it before passing to his literary career.

Bacon and his wife were tried at London in the spring of 1857 for the murder of their two young
children. It was sufficiently proved upon that occasion that Mrs. Bacon (who had already been
in a madhouse) committed the crime in a fit of insanity. Bacon, however, had endeavoured to
manufacture some evidence in order to give countenance to a theory that the murder had been
committed by housebreakers during his absence. He thus incurred suspicion, and was placed upon
trial with his wife. It also came out that he had been tried (and acquitted) a year before
for setting fire to his own house, and reasons appeared for suspecting him of an attempt to
poison his mother at Stamford three years previously. Upon these facts Fitzjames wrote an article
in the 'Saturday Review.'[65] He declared that the crime was as interesting, except for the
want of dignity of the actors, as the events which gave the plot of some of the tragedies of
Æschylus. It reminded him, too, of the terrible story of 'Jane Eyre.' For we had to suppose
either that Bacon suffered by his marriage to a mad woman who had poisoned his mother, burnt
his house, and cut his children's throats; or else that the wife's last outbreak had been the
incidental cause of the discovery of his own previous crimes. In the last case we had an instance
of that 'retributive vengeance' which, though it cannot be 'reduced to a very logical form,
speaks in tones of thunder to the imaginations of mankind.'

The case came, as it happened, to the Midland Circuit. Bacon was tried in Lincoln on July 25
for poisoning his mother. Fitzjames writes from the court, where he is waiting in the hope
that he may be asked by the judge to defend the prisoner. While he writes, the request comes
accordingly, and he feels that if he is successful he may make the first step to fortune. He
was never cooler or calmer, he says, in his life, and has always, 'in a way of his own,' 'truly
and earnestly trusted in God to help him in all the affairs of life.' He made his speech, and
suggested the theory already noticed, that the poisoning might have been the act of the mad
wife. The judge paid him a high compliment, but summed up for a conviction, which accordingly
followed. Fitzjames himself thought, though he was not 'quite sure,' that the man was guilty.
He commented upon the case in another article in the 'Saturday Review,' not, of course, to
dispute the verdict, but to draw a characteristic inference. Is it not, he asks, very hard
upon a poor prisoner that he should have no better means of obtaining counsel than the request
of the judge at the last moment to some junior barrister? They manage these things, he thinks,
better in France; though 'we have no reason to speak with disrespect of the gentleman who conducted
the case.'

Whatever may have been thought of Fitzjames's judgment in this case, he gradually, as I have
said, came to be regularly employed upon similar occasions. By slow degrees, too, more profitable
briefs came to him; but he was in the trying position of appearing on a good many occasions
which excited much interest, while more regular work still declined to present itself in corresponding
proportions. Now and then a puff of wind filled his sails for the moment, but wearying calms
followed, and the steady gale which propels to fortune and to the highest professional advancement
would not set in with the desired regularity.

III. THE 'SATURDAY REVIEW.'

Here therefore I leave the story of his main profession to take up his work in other capacities.
When he left Cambridge, the 'Morning Chronicle' was passing through a short phase of unprofitable
brilliancy. It had been bought by the 'Peelites,' who are reported to have sunk as much as
200,000l. upon it. John Douglas Cook was editor, and among his contributors were Maine and
others of Fitzjames's college friends. Naturally he was anxious to try his hand. He wrote several
articles in the winter of 1851-2. 'The pay,' says Fitzjames, 'was very high--3l. 10s. an article,
and I thought that I was going to make a fortune. I was particularly pleased, I remember, with
my smartness and wit, but, alas and alas! Cook found me out and gradually ceased to put in
my articles. I have seldom felt much keener disappointment, for I was ardently desirous of
standing on my own legs and having in my pocket a little money of my own earning. I took heart,
however, and decided to try elsewhere. I wrote one or two poor little articles in obscure places,
and at last took (as already stated) to the "Christian Observer." 'I took great pains,' he
says, 'with my articles, framing my style upon conveyancing and special pleading, so that it
might be solid, well-connected, and logical, and enable me to get back to the Paradise of 3l.
10s. an article, from which, as I strongly suspected, my flippancy had excluded me.' 'Flippancy'
was clearly not in his line. Besides the 'Christian Observer,' I find that the 'Law Magazine'
took a few articles from him, but there is no trace of other writings until 1855. In that year
was published the first number of 'Cambridge Essays,' which, in alliance with a series of 'Oxford
Essays,' lived for a couple of years and contained some very good work. Maine became first
known to the public by an article upon Roman Law contributed in 1856, and a study of Coleridge's
philosophy by Professor Hort, another apostle, is one of the best extant discussions of a difficult
subject. Fitzjames, in 1855, wrote a characteristic article upon 'The Relation of Novels to
Life,' and in 1857 one upon 'Characteristics of English Criminal Law.' The articles roused
some interest and helped to encourage him.

Meanwhile the 'Morning Chronicle' had changed hands, and its previous supporters set up the
'Saturday Review,' of which the first number appeared on November 3, 1855. John Douglas Cook,
who took command of the new adventure and brought some followers from the 'Morning Chronicle,'
was a remarkable man in his way. He was one of the innumerable young Scots who go out to seek
their fortune abroad. He had received some appointment in India, quarrelled with his employers,
and came home on foot, or partly on foot, for his narratives of this period were generally,
it was thought, marked rather by imaginative fervour than by a servile adherence to historic
accuracy. He found work on the 'Times,' supported Mr. Walter in an election, was taken up by
the Duke of Newcastle, and was sent by him to inquire into the revenues of the Duchy of Cornwall.
He then appeared as an editor, and, if he failed in the 'Morning Chronicle,' made ample amends
by his guidance of the 'Saturday Review.' He was a man of no particular education, and apparently
never read a book. His language and manners were such as recalled memories of the old days
of Maginn and other Bohemians whose portraits are drawn in 'Pendennis.' But besides other qualities
which justified the friendship and confidence of his supporters, Cook had the faculty of recognising
good writing when he saw it. Newspapers have occasionally succeeded by lowering instead of
raising the standard of journalism, but the 'Saturday Review' marked at the time as distinct
an advance above the previous level as the old 'Edinburgh Review.' In his fifteen years' editorship
of the 'Saturday Review,' Cook collected as distinguished a set of contributors as has ever
been attracted to an English newspaper. Many of them became eminent in other ways. Maine and
Sir W. Harcourt were, I believe, among the earliest recruits, following Cook from the 'Morning
Chronicle.' Others, such as Professor Freeman, Mark Pattison, Mr. Goldwin Smith, Mr. John Morley,
the late Lord Justice Bowen, and many other well-known writers, joined at different periods
and with more or less regularity, but from the first the new journal was wanting neither in
ability nor audacity.[66] Two of the chief contributors who became close friends of Fitzjames's
enjoyed a reputation among their friends altogether out of proportion to their public recognition.
The first was George Stovin Venables. He was a fellow of Jesus College, Cambridge. He had been
a first-classman in the Classical Tripos of 1832, when he was placed next to W. H. Thompson,
afterwards Master of Trinity. He too was an apostle and an intimate both of Tennyson and Thackeray.
Indeed, the legend ran that it was his fist which, at Charterhouse School, had disfigured Thackeray's
nose for life. He was tall, strikingly handsome, and of singularly dignified appearance. Though
recognised as an intellectual equal by many of the ablest men of his time, he chose paths in
which little general reputation could be won. He made a large income at the parliamentary bar,
and amused himself by contributing regularly to the 'Saturday Review.'[67] Stories used to
be current of the extraordinary facility with which he could turn out his work, and I imagine
that the style of the new periodical was determined more by his writing than by that of any
of his colleagues. The political utterances were supposed to be supercilious, and were certainly
not marked by any fiery enthusiasm. Venables had an objection to the usual editorial 'we,'
and one result was that the theories of the paper were laid down with a certain impersonal
pomp, as gnomic utterances of an anonymous philosopher. I need not, however, discuss their
merit. Venables wrote, if I am not mistaken, some admirable literary criticisms, and claimed
to have been one of the first to recognise the poetical merits of his friend Tennyson, and,
after a long interval, those of Mr. Swinburne, whom he regarded as the next legitimate heir
to the throne. Venables was warmly beloved by his intimates, and Fitzjames through life frequently
declared that he felt for him a kind of filial affection.

The other Saturday reviewer with whom he became specially intimate was Thomas Collett Sandars.
He was a Balliol scholar and a Fellow of Oriel, and is known as an editor (1853) of Justinian's
'Institutes.' It is, I am told, a useful textbook, but the editor makes no special pretensions
to original research. Sandars was at one time a professor of Constitutional Law in the Inns
of Court, but he was much occupied in various financial undertakings and did little to make
himself known to the outside world. He was a man, however, of great literary taste, and overflowing
with humorous and delightful conversation. He survived my brother by a few months only, and
in the interval spoke to me with great interest of his memories of the old 'Saturday Review'
days. He was in early days on most intimate terms with Fitzjames; they discussed all manner
of topics together and were for some time the two principal manufacturers of what were called
'middles'--the articles which intervened between the political leaders and the reviews of books.
These became gradually one of the most characteristic facts of the paper, and, as I shall presently
explain, gave an opportunity of which Fitzjames was particularly glad to avail himself.

The first contribution from Fitzjames appeared in the second number of the paper. For a short
time its successors are comparatively rare, but in the course of the following spring he begins
to contribute regularly two articles a week, and before long there are sufficient indications
that the editor looks upon him with favour. Articles running to a length of four columns, for
example, show that he was not only pouring himself out pretty freely, but that his claims upon
space were not grudgingly treated. In March 1856 he says that he is 'very nervous' about his
articles and doubtful of Cook's approval, but in the same month he is greatly cheered by a
conversation upon the subject with Maine, and begins to perceive that he has really got a permanent
footing. He used to tell a story which I cannot perfectly recollect, but which was to the following
effect. He had felt very doubtful of his own performances; Cook did not seem at first to be
cordial, and possibly his attempts to 'form a style' upon the precedents of conveyancing were
not altogether successful. Feeling that he did not quite understand what was the style which
would win approval, he resolved that, for once, he would at least write according to his own
taste and give vent to his spontaneous impulses, even though it might be for the last time
of asking. To his surprise, Cook was delighted with his article, and henceforward he was able
to write freely, without hampering himself by the attempt to satisfy uncongenial canons of
journalism.[68]

However this may be, he was certainly writing both abundantly and vigorously during the following
years. The 'Saturday Review,' like the old 'Edinburgh,' was proud beyond all things of its
independence. It professed a special antipathy to popular humbugs of every kind, and was by
no means backward in falling foul of all its contemporaries for their various concessions to
popular foibles.

The writers were for the most part energetic young men, with the proper confidence in their
own infallibility, and represented faithfully enough the main current of the cultivated thought
of their day. The paper had occasionally to reflect the High Church proclivities of its proprietor,
but the articles showing that tendency were in odd contrast to the general line of argument,
which more naturally expressed the contempt of the enlightened for every popular nostrum. Fitzjames,
in particular, found occasions for energetically setting forth his own views. He had, of course,
a good many chances of dealing with legal matters. He writes periodical articles upon 'the
assizes' or discusses some specially interesting case. He now and then gets a chance of advocating
a codification of the laws, though he admits the necessity of various preliminary measures,
and especially of a more philosophical system of legal education. He denounces the cumbrous
and perplexed state of the law in general so energetically, that the arguments have to be stated
as those of certain reformers with whom the paper does not openly identify itself.

As became a good Saturday reviewer, he fell foul of many popular idols. One regular chopping-block
for irreverent reviewers was Dr. Cumming, who was then proving from the Apocalypse that the
world would come to an end in 1865. His ignorance of Greek and of geography, his audacious
plagiarisms from E. B. Elliott (a more learned though not a much wiser interpreter), and his
insincerity, are denounced so unsparingly as to suggest some danger from the law of libel.
Dr. Cumming, however, was wise in his generation, and wrote a letter of such courteous and
dignified remonstrance that the 'Saturday Review' was forced to reply in corresponding terms,
though declining to withdraw its charges. The whole world of contemporary journalism is arraigned
for its subserviency to popular prejudices. The 'Record' is lashed for its religious rancour,
and the 'Reasoner' for its vapid version of popular infidelity, though it is contemptuously
preferred, in point of spirit, to the 'Record.' Fitzjames flies occasionally at higher game.
The 'Times,' if he is to be believed, is conspicuous for the trick of spinning empty verbiage
out of vapid popular commonplaces, and, indeed, good sense and right reason appear to have
withdrawn themselves almost exclusively to the congenial refuge of the 'Saturday Review.'

There is, however, no shrine sacred to the vulgar in which the writer delights in playing the
part of iconoclast so heartily as in that represented by the comic literature of the day. This
sentiment, as I have said, had grown up even in Eton schooldays. There was something inexpressibly
repugnant to Fitzjames in the tone adopted by a school of which he took Dickens and Douglas
Jerrold to be representatives. His view of the general literary question comes out oddly in
the article upon 'The Relation of Novels to Life,' contributed to the 'Cambridge Essays.' He
has no fear of modern æsthetes before his eyes. His opinion is that life is too serious a business
for tomfoolery and far too tragic for needless ostentation of sentiment. A novel should be
a serious attempt by a grave observer to draw a faithful portrait of the actual facts of life.
A novelist, therefore, who uses the imaginary facts, like Sterne and Dickens, as mere pegs
on which to hang specimens of his own sensibility and facetiousness, becomes disgusting. When,
he remarks, you have said of a friend 'he is dead,' all other observations become superfluous
and impertinent. He, therefore, considers 'Robinson Crusoe' to represent the ideal novel. It
is the life of a brave man meeting danger and sorrow with unflinching courage, and never bringing
his tears to market. Dickens somewhere says, characteristically, that 'Robinson Crusoe' is
the only very popular work which can be read without a tear from the first page to the last.
That is precisely the quality which commends it to this stern reader, who thought that in fiction
as in life a man should keep his feelings under lock and key. In spite of his rather peculiar
canons of taste, Fitzjames was profoundly interested, even in spite of himself, in some novels
constructed on very different principles. In these early articles he falls foul of 'Mdme. de
Bovary,'[69] from the point of view of the simple-minded moralist, but he heartily admires
Balzac, whom he defends against a similar charge, and in whose records of imaginary criminals--records
not so famous in England at that time as they now are--he found an interest almost equal to
that of the 'State Trials' and Palmer's case. He could also, I must add, enjoy Dickens's humour
as heartily as any one. He was well up in 'Pickwick,' though I don't know whether he would
have been equal to Calverley's famous examination-paper, and he had a special liking for the
'Uncommercial Traveller.' But when Dickens deserted his proper function Fitzjames was roused
to indignation. The 'little Nell' sentimentalism and the long gallery of melodramatic deathbeds
disgusted him, while the assaults upon the governing classes generally stirred his wrath. The
satire upon individuals may be all very well in its place, but a man, he said, has no business
to set up as the 'regenerator of society' because he is its most 'distinguished buffoon.' He
was not picking his words, and 'buffoon' is certainly an injudicious phrase; but the sentiment
which it expressed was so characteristic and deeply rooted that I must dwell a little upon
its manifestation at this time.

The war between the Saturday reviewers and their antagonists was carried on with a frequent
use of the nicknames 'prig' and 'cynic' upon one side, and 'buffoon' and 'sentimentalist' upon
the other. Phrases so employed soon lose all definite meaning, but it is, I think, easy to
see what they meant as applied either by or to Fitzjames. The 'comic writers' for him were
exponents of the petty and vulgar ideals of the lower middle classes of the day. The world
of Dickens's novels was a portrait of the class for which Dickens wrote. It was a world of
smug little tradesmen of shallow and half-educated minds, with paltry ambitions, utter ignorance
of history and philosophy, shrinking instinctively from all strenuous thought and resenting
every attack upon the placid optimism in which it delighted to wrap itself. It had no perception
of the doubts and difficulties which beset loftier minds, or any consciousness of the great
drama of history in which our generation is only playing its part for the passing hour. Whatever
lay beyond its narrow horizon was ignored, or, if accidentally mentioned, treated with ignorant
contempt. This was the spirit which revealed itself in the pæans raised over the Exhibition
of 1851, accepted by the popular voice of the day as the inauguration of a millennium of peace
and free trade. But all its manifestations were marked by the same narrowness. The class had
once found a voice for its religious sentiments in Puritanism, with stern conceptions of duty
and of a divine order of the universe. But in its present mood it could see the Puritan leaders
represented by a wretched Stiggins--a pothouse Tartufe just capable of imposing upon the friends
of Mrs. Gamp. Its own religion was that kind of vapid philanthropic sentiment which calls itself
undenominational; a creed of maudlin benevolence from which all the deeper and sterner elements
of religious belief have been carefully purged away, and which really corresponds to the moods
which Mr Pickwick stimulated by indulgence in milk-punch. When it came face to face with death,
and sin, and suffering, it made them mere occasions for displays of sentimentalism, disgusting
because such trifling with the most awful subjects shows a hopeless shallowness of nature.
Dickens's indulgence in deathbeds meant an effeminate delight in the 'luxury of grief,' revolting
in proportion to the solemnity of the topic. This was only another side of the levity with
which he treated serious political and social problems. The attitude of mind represented is
that of the ordinary newspaper correspondent, who imagines that a letter to the 'Times' is
the ultimate remedy for all the evils to which flesh is heir. Dickens's early novels, said
Fitzjames, represented an avatar of 'chaff'; and gave with unsurpassable vivacity the genuine
fun of a thoroughbred cockney typified by Sam Weller. Sam Weller is delightful in his place;
but he is simply impertinent when he fancies that his shrewd mother wit entitles him to speak
with authority upon great questions of constitutional reform and national policy. Dickens's
later assaults upon the 'Circumlocution Office,' the Court of Chancery, were signal instances
of this impatient, irritable, and effeminate levity. Fitzjames elaborated this view in an article
upon 'the license of novelists' which appeared in the 'Edinburgh Review' for July 1857. He
fell foul of 'Little Dorrit'; but the chief part of the article referred to Charles Reade's
'Never Too Late to Mend.' That novel was briefly a travesty of a recent case in which a prisoner
had committed suicide in consequence, as was suggested, of ill-treatment by the authorities
of the gaol. The governor had been tried and punished in consequence. Fitzjames gives the actual
facts to show how Reade had allowed himself, as a writer of fiction, to exaggerate and distort
them, and had at the same time taken the airs of an historian of facts and bragged of his resolution
to brand all judges who should dare to follow the precedent which he denounced. This article,
I may notice, included an injudicious reference to the case of the Post Office and Rowland
Hill, which was not, I believe, due to Fitzjames himself, and which enabled Dickens to reply
with some effect in 'Household Words.' Dickens's attacks upon the 'Circumlocution Office' and
its like were not altogether inconsistent with some opinions upon the English system of government
to which, as I shall have to show, Fitzjames himself gave forcible expression in after years.
They started, however, from a very different point of view, and for the present he criticised
both Dickens and some of the similar denunciations contained in Carlyle's 'Past and Present,'
and 'Latter-day Pamphlets.' The assault upon the 'Circumlocution Office' was, I doubt not,
especially offensive because 'Barnacle Tite,' and the effete aristocrats who are satirised
in 'Little Dorrit,' stood for representatives of Sir James Stephen and his best friends. In
fact, I think, Dickens took the view natural to the popular mind, which always embodies a grievance
in a concrete image of a wicked and contemptible oppressor intending all the evils which result
from his office. A more interesting and appropriate topic for art of a serious kind would be
the problem presented by a body of men of the highest ability and integrity who are yet doomed
to work a cumbrous and inadequate system. But the popular reformer, to whom everything seems
easy and obvious, explains all abuses by attributing them to the deliberate intention of particular
fools and knaves. This indicates Fitzjames's position at the time. He was fully conscious of
the administrative abuses assailed, and was as ardent on law reform as became a disciple of
Bentham. But he could not accept the support of men who thought that judicious reform could
be suggested by rough caricatures, and that all difficulties could be appreciated by the first
petty tradesmen who encountered an incidental grievance or by such summary remedies as were
to be suggested off-hand by anonymous correspondents. The levity, the ignorance, the hasty
and superficial irritability of these reformers, their enormous conceit and imperturbable self-complacency
revolted him. English life he declared in the 'Edinburgh Review' is 'too active, English spheres
of action too wide, English freedom too deeply rooted, to be endangered by a set of bacchanals
drunk with green tea and not protected by petticoats. Boundless luxury,' he thought, 'and thirst
for excitement, have raised a set of writers who show a strong sympathy for all that is most
opposite to the very foundations of English life.' The 'Saturday Review' articles enlarge upon
the same theme. He will not accept legislators whose favourite costume is the cap and bells,
or admit that men who 'can make silly women cry can, therefore, dictate principles of law and
government.' The defects of our system are due to profound historical causes.