This revival is bound to have a long--it may be an unprecedentedly long--run. All of us dearly
love a show. Moreover, 'tis educational; and the School Board should issue an Examination-paper
on the history of HENRY THE EIGHTH and his times as exemplified by Mr. IRVING & CO. at the Lyceum.

JACK-IN-THE-BOX.

P.S.--The cost of production of Henry the Eighth at the Lyceum was £250,000 3s. 6¾d. Mr. IRVING's
nightly expenses are £10,999 2s. 5½d. I thought it had been more, but the above information
comes to me from a person whose veracity I should not like to question, except with the boundless
sea between us.

       *       *       *       *       *

CON. FOR THE C.O.S.--When SHAKSPEARE said, "The quality of mercy is not strained," did he mean
that it was not strained through a Charity Organisation Society?

       *       *       *       *       *

"READING between the Lines" is a dangerous occupation--when there's a Train coming.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CONFESSIONS OF A DUFFER.

I.--GOLF.

The Fairies who came to my Christening provided me with a large collection of toys, implements,
and other articles. There was a heart, a tender one, a pen of gold, a set of Golf-clubs, a
bat, wickets, and a ball, oars and a boat, boxing gloves, foils, guns, rifles, books, everything,
except ready money, that heart could desire. Unluckily one Fairy, who was old, deaf, plain,
and who had not been invited, observed, "It is all very well, my child, but not one of these
articles shall you be able to use satisfactorily." This awful curse has hung heavy on my doom.
With a restless desire to shine and excel, at Lord's, on the river, on the Moors, in the forests,
in Society, on the Links, bitter personal experience and the remarks of candid friends, tell
me that the doom has come upon me. I am "an all-round Duffer," as my youngest nephew, ætat.
XI., freely informed me, when I served twice out of court (once into the conservatory, the
other time through the study window). I was a Duffer at marbles, also at tops, and my personal
efforts in these kinds were constantly in liquidation. But what are marbles and tops! The first
regular game I was entered at was Golf. Five is not too early to begin, and I began at five
by being knocked down with a club which another small boy was brandishing. This naturally gave
me an extreme zeal for the sport of MARY STUART, the Great Marquis of MONTROSE, CHARLES EDWARD
(who introduced Golf into Italy), DUNCAN FORBES of Culloden, Mr. HORACE HUTCHINSON, and other
eminent historical characters.

Almost everybody now knows that Golf is not Hockey. Nobody runs after the ball except young
ladies at W--m--n! The object is to put a very small ball into a very tiny and remotely distant
hole, with engines singularly ill adapted for the purpose. There are many engines. First there
is the Driver, a long club, wherewith the ball is supposed to be propelled from the tee, a
little patch of sand. The Tee and the Caddie have nothing to do with each other; nobody but
a flippant Cockney sees any fun in plays upon words which, in themselves, are only too serious.
Then there is a weapon called a Brassey. It is like unto a club, but is shod with brass, and
is used for hitting a ball in "a bad lie" among long grass or heather. A small tomahawk, styled
a Cleek, is employed when you don't know what else to play with. The same remark applies to
an Iron, which is very good for missing the ball with, also for hitting to square leg when
you meant to go straight. A "Mashy" is a smaller "iron." The skilful use these when the ball
lies in sand, in gorse, or when they wish to make the ball soar for a short distance and then
fall dead. A Putter is a short thickish club used for jogging the ball into the hole with.
There are plenty of other kinds of clubs, also spoons, but these are enough to break the heart
of any Duffer.

I am an old player, of forty years' standing, but, like Parolles I was "made for every man
to breathe himself on." When my form is espied near the links, the players shirk off as if
I were a leper. They are afraid I may want to make a match with them, and there is no falsehood
from which they will shrink, in their desire to escape me. Even Ladies,--but this is a delicate
theme. Beginners breathe themselves on me, and give me odds after two or three engagements.

Yet I don't know why I am so bad. True, I am short-sighted, never see the flag at the hole,
play in the wrong direction, and talk a good deal on topics of academic interest during the
round. The Golfer's mind should be a blank, and generally is "blank enough," like Sir Tor's
shield. My mind is, perhaps, too active--that may be what is the matter with me. It is the
same thing at whist--but of this hereafter. My Caddie, or arm-bearer, has his own views about
the causes of my incompetence.

"Ye're no standing richt. Ye haud yer hands wrang. Ye tak' yer ee off the ba'. Ye're ower quick
up. Ye're ower slow doun. Ye dinna swing. Ye fa' back. Ye haud ower ticht wi' yer richt hand.
Ye dinna let your arms gang easy. Ye whiles tap, and whiles slice, and whiles heel, or ye hit
her aff the tae. Ye're hooking her. Ye're no thinking o' what ye're doing. Ye'll never be a
Gowfer. Lord! ony man can lairn Greek, but Gowf needs a heid."

Here are fifteen ways of going wrong, and there is only one way of going right! Fifteen things
to think of, every time you take a driver in hand. And, remember, that is not nearly all. These
fifteen fatal errors apply to long driving. You may (or at least I may, and do) make plenty
of other blunders with the other weapons. Say the ball lies in sand--"a bunker," technically.
If you hit it whack on the top, it disappears in a foot-mark. If you "tak' plenty o' sand,"
why, you get plenty of sand in your mouth, your eyes, down the back of your neck, and the ball
is no forwarder. If you strike her quite clean, she goes like a bullet against the face of
the bunker, soars in the air, falls on your head, and you lose the hole! Oh, Golf is full of
bitterness!

Suppose we play a round. The ball is neatly "tee'd" on a patch of sand. I approach, I shuffle
with my feet for a secure footing, I waggle my club in an airy manner. Then I take it up and
whack it down. A variety of things may occur. I may smite the top of the hall, when it runs
on for twenty yards and lies in a rut on the road. I may hit her on the heel of the club, when
she spins, with much "cut" on, into the sea. I may hit her with the toe of the club, when she
soars to square leg, and perhaps breaks a window. I used to try running in at the ball, as
if it were a half-volley at Cricket, but that way lies madness. However, suppose that, in a
lucid interval (as will happen), I hit her clean. She soars away, and falls within forty yards
of a meandering burn. The hole, the haven where one would be, is beyond the burn.

I seize a cleek or an iron, it turns in my hand, cuts up the turf, and the ball rolls half
a dozen feet. My opponent has crossed the burn. I try again; a fearful misdirected shot; the
ball soars over the burn and lands in a road behind the hole. There is no hitting out of this
road, or, if one does hit a desperate blow, the ball lands in an eccentric sand-hole, called
the Scholar's Bunker. We start for the next hole. Même jeu! Now we are in the gorse, now among
the Station Master's potatoes, now in the railway, where all hope may be abandoned, now in
bunkers many, now missing the ball altogether, when you feel as if your arms had flown off.
As for "putting" the short strokes on the green, near the hole, if I hit sharp, the ball runs
over the hole yards and yards beyond, or if I hit mild, it stops with an air of plaintive resignation,
after dribbling for a foot or two. And the worst of it is that, sometimes, you will play as
well as another for half-a-dozen holes. Then one thinks one has The Secret! But it falls from
us, vanishes, we are topping and slicing, and heeling, and missing again as sorrily as ever.

The beauty of Golf is that there are so many ways of going wrong, and so many things to think
of. A person of very moderately active mind has his ideas diverted by the landscape, the sea,
the blossom on the gorse, the larks singing overhead, not to mention the whole system of the
universe. He forgets to keep his eye on the ball, in devoting his energy to holding tight with
his left, and being slow up. Or he remembers to keep his eye on the ball, and forgets the other
essentials. Then an awful moment comes when he loses his temper. Thereby all is lost, honour
(not to mention "the honour,") and everything. People in front, old people, are so provoking.
They potter tardily along, pass ten minutes in considering a putt, shout and swear if you hit
into them, and are not pleased if you sit down and smoke while you wait. The only entity that
I don't lose my temper with is my partner. The worse he plays, the better am I pleased to have
a brother in adversity. The subjective Golfer, however, is certainly a bore. He is "put off"
by every simple circumstance, by his opponent wearing an unbecoming cap and the like. Afterwards,
he will hold forth for hours on all his sorrows and all the sins of others. The Duffer is more
modest and less apologetic. He is kept always playing (as I said) by the diabolical circumstance
that he has lucid intervals, though rarely, when he plays like other people for three or four
holes. I once, myself did the long hole in--but never mind. Nobody would believe me. The most
amiable of Duffers was he who, after ten strokes in a bunker, cut his ball into three parts.
"I am bringing it out," he said, "in penny numbers."

The born Duffer, I speak feelingly, is incurable. No amount of odds will put him on the level
even of Scotch Professors. For the learned have divided Golf into several categories. There
is Professional Golf, the best Amateur Golf, Enthusiasts' Golf, Golf, Beginners' Golf, Ladies'
Golf, Infant Golf, Parlour Golf, the Golf of Scotch Professors. But the true Duffer's Golf
is far, far below that. A Duffer like me is too bad for hanging. He should be condemned to
play for life at Chorley Wood, or to bush-whack at Bungay.

       *       *       *       *       *

FREE AND EASY THEATRES.--We have no sympathy whatever with the idea of a Théâtre Libre or with
a Free-and-Easy Theatre, but we shall be very glad when all Theatres are made Easy, Easy, that
is, as to sitting accommodation, and Easy of egress and ingress. But if the space is to be
enlarged, will not the prices have to be enlarged too? 'Tis a problem in the discussion of
which The Players, which is a new journal, solely devoted to things Dramatic and Theatrical,
would find congenial employment.

       *       *       *       *       *

VENICE AT OLYMPIA.

    ["The water in the canals is two feet in depth, and is kept at
    a temperature of sixty degrees."

Vidé the Press on "Venice at Olympia."]

  O Jane, thou jewel of my heart--
    Thou object of my hopeless passion,
  Though Fate decrees that we must part,
    I'll leave thee in some novel fashion!
  I will not do as others do
    When cheated of prospective bridal,
  And quit the Bridge of Waterloo
    With header swift and suicidal.

  I will not seek--as others seek--
    Some public-house in mean and low street,
  And drink--till haled before the Beak
    Who patiently presides at Bow Street.
  I will not throw--as others throw--
    My manly form, without compunction,
  Before the frequent trains that go
    At lightning speed through Clapham Junction.

  For though my spirit seeks escape
    From all the carking cares that vex it,
  I will not plunge thee into crape
    By any ordinary exit:
  So when--in slang--I "take my hook,"
    Detesting all that's mean and skimpy, a
  Reserved and numbered seat I'll book,
    And hie to Venice at Olympia.

  I'll see the Show that draws the town--
    Its pageantry delight affording--
  As per the details noted down
    Where posters flame on every hoarding;
  And then the sixpence I will pay,
    Which in my pocket now I'm fondling,
  And try upon the water-way
    The new experience of gondling.

  I know that death will seem delight
    When in the gondola I'm seated,
  For up to sixty Fahrenheit
    The Grand Canal is nicely heated;
  So--sick of life's incessant storm,
    Impatient of its kicks and pinches--
  I'll plunge within the water warm,
    And drown--in four-and-twenty inches!

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

After copious draughts of novels and romances which, the morning after, leave the literary
palate as dry as a lime-kiln, or as Mrs. RAM would say, "as a lamb-kin," the Baron, thirsting
for a more satisfying beverage, took up a volume, which he may fairly describe as a youthful
quarto, or an imperial pinto, coming from the CHAPMAN AND HALL cellars, that is, book-sellers,
entitled On Shibboleths, and written by W.S. LILLY. In a recent trial it came out that Mr.
GEORGE MEREDITH is the accredited and professional reader for Messrs. CHAPMAN AND HALL. Is
it possible that this eminent philosophical Novelist is indebted to a quiet perusal of Shibboleths
for some of the quaint philosophical touches not to be read off schoolboywise, with hurried
ellipses, blurting lips, and unintelligent brain, if any, which make One of Our Conquerors
and others, worth perusal? Be this as it may, which is a convenient shibbolethian formula,
the Baron read this book, and enjoyed it muchly. There is an occasional dig into the Huxleian
anatomy, given with all the politeness of a Louis-the-Fifteenthian "M.A.," otherwise Maître
d'Armes, and a passing reference to "The People's WILLIAM" and the carrying out of the People's
will--which is quite another affair,--all, to quote Sir PETER, "vastly entertaining." The chapter
on the Shibboleth "Education" is, thinks the Baron, about the best. With which Meredithism
concludes

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREUX CHEVALIER.

SIR,--The amazing popularity of the Costermonger Songs seems to me a significant phenomenon.
While no humane person would deny to the itinerant vendor of comestibles that sympathy which
is accorded to the joys and sorrows of his more refined fellow-creatures, it is impossible
to view without alarm the hold which his loose and ungrammatical diction is obtaining in the
most cultured salons of to-day. Anxious to minimise the danger, yet loth to check a sentiment
of fraternity so creditable to our common humanity, I have devised a plan by which Mr. CHEVALIER's
songs may he rendered in such-wise that while all their deep humanity is preserved, their English
is so elevated as to be innocuous to the nicest sensibility. Permit me to give, just as a sample,
my treatment of that very popular ballad, known, rubesco referens, as "Knocked 'em in the Old
Kent Road." Not being a singer, I have adopted Mr. CLIFFORD HARRISON's charming plan of speaking
through the music of the song, and this is how I render the chorus:--

"'How is it with you?' was the universal exclamation of the residents in the vicinity.

"'With whom, WILLIAM, have you made an appointment?'

"'Have you, WILLIAM, purchased all the house-property in this thoroughfare?'

"Were my risible faculties exercised?--you ask me. Nay. Indeed I was actually apprehensive
of a fatal issue.

"So striking was the effect produced upon those in the ancient Cantian highway.