'

'Ah! you know the people, and will be a great help to us,' said Amy, and Guy was much pleased
to hear her taking a voluntary share in the invitation, knowing as he did that she only half
liked it.

'Thank you; we shall see,' replied Philip.

'Yes; we shall see when you are fit for the journey, and it will not be long before we can
begin, by short stages. You have got on wonderfully in the last few days. How do you think
he is looking, Amy?' finished Guy, with an air of triumph, that was rather amusing, considering
what a pale skeleton face he was regarding with so much satisfaction.

'I dare say he is looking much mended,' said Amy; 'but you must not expect me to see it.'

'You can't get a compliment for me, Guy,' said Philip. 'I was a good deal surprised when Arnaud
brought me the glass this morning.'

'It is a pity you did not see yourself a week ago,' said Guy, shaking his head drolly.

'It is certain, as the French doctor says, that monsieur has a very vigorous constitution.'

'Charles says, having a good constitution is only another name for undergoing every possible
malady,' said Amy.

'Rather good' said Guy; 'for I certainly find it answer very well to have none at all.'

'Haven't you?' said Amy, rather startled.

'Or how do you know?' said Philip; 'especially as you never were ill.'

'It is a dictum of old Walters, the Moorworth doctor, the last time I had anything to do with
him, when I was a small child. I suppose I remembered it for its oracular sound, and because
I was not intended to listen. He was talking over with Markham some illness I had just got
through, and wound up with, "He may be healthy and active now; but he has no constitution,
there is a tendency to low fever, and if he meets with any severe illness, it will go hard
with him."'

'How glad I am I did not know that before' cried Amy.

'Did you remember it when you came here?' said Philip.

'Yes,' said Guy, not in the least conscious of the impression his words made on the others.
'By the bye, Philip, I wish you would tell us how you fared after we parted, and how you came
here.'

'I went on according to my former plan,' said Philip, 'walking through the Valtelline, and
coming down by a mountain path. I was not well at Bolzano, but I thought it only fatigue, which
a Sunday's rest would remove, so on I went for the next two days, in spite of pain in head
and limbs.'

'Not walking!' said Amy.

'Yes, walking. I thought it was stiffness from mountain climbing, and that I could walk it
off; but I never wish to go through anything like what I did the last day, between the up and
downs of that mountain path, and the dazzle of the snow and heat of the sun. I meant to have
reached Vicenza, but I must have been quite knocked up when I arrived here, though I cannot
tell. My head grew so confused, that my dread, all the way, was that I should forget my Italian;
I can just remember conning a phrase over and over again, lest I should lose it. I suppose
I was able to speak when I came here, but the last thing I remember was feeling very ill in
some room, different from this, quite alone, and with a horror of dying deserted. The next
is a confused recollection of the relief of hearing English again, and seeing my excellent
nurse here.'

