My identity was discovered at once, as the son of the great dead Carlist. I was suspected and
clapped into a cell, to wait until my innocence could be proved. This was not easy; but, on
the other hand, there was no proof against me; and after an experience which scourged my pride
and emptied my purse, I was released, only to be politely but firmly advised never again to
show the undesirable face of a Casa Triana in Spain.

It was after this that I flung myself off to Russia, and through friendly influence got a commission
in the army. I had some adventures in the Boxer rising; and though Heaven knows I have no grudge
against the Japanese, the fight I made later on the Russian side gave me something to do for
two years. After the Peace with Idleness, came the motor mania, and I thought of nothing else
for a time. But when you have run your car for months, motoring for its own sake ceases to
be all in all. You ask yourself what country you would like best to visit with the machine
you love.

Pride kept me from answering that question with the name of “Spain”; but it was because Biarritz
is at the door of Spain that I had just invited Dick Waring—the best of friends, the most delightful
of Americans, who fought side by side with me, for fun, in China—to drive there in my Gloria car.

“Yes, they knew when I went to Barcelona,” I admitted; for Dick was familiar with the story.
“But that was different. Anyhow, I’m going to Biarritz, whatever happens. You can do as you like.”

“If you will go, I’ll go too,” said Dick; “and if anything happens I’ll be in it with you.
But you may regret your rashness.”

“I’ve never yet regretted rashness,” I said. “Things done on impulse always turn out for the best.”

So we started from Paris the next day, and had a splendid run, through scenery to set the spirit
singing in tune with the thrumming of the motor.

Whatever was to happen in Biarritz, and I was far enough from guessing then, nothing happened
by the way; and we arrived on a morning of blue and gold.

We put up at a private hotel out of the way from fashionable thoroughfares; and, as my childhood
and early youth were passed in England, I could use an English name without making myself ridiculous
by a foreign accent. As for my brown face and black eyes, many a Cornishman has a face as brown
and eyes as black; therefore, I edited the name of Triana into Cornish Trevenna, and changed
Cristóbal, my middle name, into Christopher.

We took our first meal in the restaurant, and everyone at the little tables near by, was talking
of the King and “Princess Ena”; how pretty she was, how much in love he; how charming their
romance. My heart quite warmed to my youthful sovereign, who has had seven fewer years on earth
than I. I felt that, if I had had a fair chance, I should have been his loyal subject.

“I’d like to have a look at him,” said I to Waring after lunch. “The lady with the nose who
sat on our left said to her husband with the chin, that the King and the two Princesses motor
every afternoon. We’ll motor too; and where they go, there we’ll go also.”

“Take care,” said Dick.

“A cat may look at a king. So may Chris Trevenna.”

“No good advising you to be cautious.”

“Of course not. You wouldn’t care a rap for me if there was.”

“Shouldn’t I? Anyhow, Chris Trevenna might as well wear goggles.”

“There’s no dust to-day,” said I. “It rained in the night.”

“I give you up,” said Dick. And if giving me up meant going out with me in my big blue car
directly after lunch, then he kept his word. Ropes, my chauffeur, and right-hand man, who sits
always in the tonneau, had already heard all about the King’s automobile, and was primed with
particulars. He leaned across to describe its appearance, as well as mention the make; and
when such a car as he was in the act of picturing passed us, going round a bend of the road
which leads to Spain, there was no mistaking it.

“Let’s follow,” said I.

Dick sighed, but naturally I paid no attention to that.

There were five persons in the King’s car. The slim young owner, three ladies, two very slender
and young, and the chauffeur, all five masked or goggled, so that it was impossible to see
their faces.

“I wish something would happen to them,” I said.

Waring looked shocked.

“Just enough of a something to stop the car, and tempt the ladies to take off their motor-veils.
I may never have another chance to see the future Queen of Spain.”

When I was a small lad in England, I used to lie under a favourite apple-tree in the orchard
of the old place where we lived, and wish with all my might for the fall of a certain apple
on which eyes and heart were fixed. It was extraordinary how often the apple would fall.

In a flash I remembered those wishes and those apples as we began to gain upon the King’s car.
Its pace slackened, and then it stopped. The chauffeur jumped out, and two of the ladies were
raising their thick veils as we came up.

As we were not supposed to know the King, who was “incog,” the ordinary civilities between
motorists were in order. I slowed down, and taking off my hat, inquired in French if there
were anything I could do.

The two girls, who had hastily whipped off their veils, turned and glanced at me. Both were
more than pretty; blond, violet-eyed, with radiant complexions; but one seemed to me beautiful
as the Blessed Damozel looking down from the star-framed window of heaven; and I was suddenly
sick with jealousy of the King, because I believed that she was his Princess.

It was he who answered, in French better than mine. He thanked me for my kind offer, and referred
me to his chauffeur, who had not yet discovered the cause of the car’s sudden loss of power.
But even as he spoke, the mystery was solved. There was a leak in the petrol-tank, near the
bottom; the last drop of essence had run away, and, as they had come out for a short spin,
there was none in reserve.

An odd chance it seemed that brought me, the son of a banished rebel, to the King’s aid; but
life is odd. I rejoiced because it was odd, and more because of the girl.

I had a spare bidon of petrol which, with conventional expressions of pleasure, I gave to my
fellow motorist. We exchanged compliments, and as nobody stared at me askance, I had reason
to believe that neither words, actions, nor looks were out of the way. Yet what I said and
did was said and done with no more guidance of the mind than the gestures and speech of a mechanical
doll.

I was conscious only of the girl’s eyes, for I had done that unreasonable, indefinable thing—fallen
in love at first sight, and I had fallen very far, and very deep. She did not glance at me
often, and after the first I scarcely glanced at her at all, lest my eyes should be indiscreet.
It was the most curious thing in the world, and far beyond anything that had ever happened
to me; but already I knew that I could not lose her out of my life. Sooner could I lose life
itself. If she were the Princess who was to be Queen of Spain, I would follow her to Madrid,
come what might, just for the joy of breathing the air she breathed, of seeing her drive past
me in her carriage sometimes. I had wondered, knowing the traditions of our family, many of
them tragic, when love would come to me. Now it had come quickly, in a moment; but not to go
as it had come. It and I would be one, for always. The girl was little more than a child, but
I knew she was to be the one woman for me; and that was what I feared my eyes might tell her.
So I would not look; yet the air seemed charged with electricity to flash a thousand messages,
and my blood tingled with the assurance that she had had my message, that unconsciously she
was sending back a message to me.

All this was going on in my inner self, while the outer husk of self delivered itself of conventional
things.

A leak was mended, a tank filled, while my life was being remade. Then there were bows, lifting
of caps, many politenesses, and the King’s car shot away.

“What’s the matter?” inquired Waring by and by.

“Nothing,” I answered. “Why do you ask?”

“You act as if you’d had a stroke. Aren’t you going to drive on?”

“No. Yes. I’m going back,” I said, and turned the car.

“You don’t mean to follow, then?”

“There’s something I need to do at once at Biarritz,” I answered. It was true. I needed to
find out whether she was the Princess, or—just a girl.

                                    II

THE GIRL

It was easy to learn that she was not the Princess. I did that by going into a stationer’s
shop and asking for a photograph of the royal lovers. It was not quite so easy to find out
who she was, without pinning my new secret on my sleeve; but luckily everyone in Biarritz boasted
knowledge of the King’s affairs, and the affairs of the pretty Princess. Christopher Trevenna
made himself agreeable after dinner to the lady with the nose, who would probably have shrunk
away in fear if she had known that she was talking with the Marqués de Casa Triana.

I, in my character of Trevenna, found out that the Princess had a friend, Lady Monica Vale,
daughter of the widowed Countess of Vale-Avon, who, when at home, lived in the Isle of Wight.
At present, the two were staying at Biarritz, in a villa; and Lady Monica, a girl of eighteen
or nineteen, sometimes had the honour of going out with the Princesses, in the King’s motor.

There were other privileged friends as well; but the description of Lady Monica Vale, though
painted with a colourless brush, was unmistakable.

Casually I inquired the name of the house where Lady Vale-Avon and her daughter were staying,
and having learned it, I made an excuse to escape from the lady with the nose.

It was half-past ten o’clock, and a night flooded with moonlight. I strolled out, smoking a
cigarette, and in ten minutes stood before the garden gate of the Villa Esmeralda.

There were lights in three or four of the windows, sparkling among close-growing trees; and
I had not finished my second cigarette, when a carriage drove round the corner and stopped.

I moved into the background. A groom jumped down, unfastened the gate, and having opened the
brougham door, respectfully aided a middle-aged lady to descend.

The moonlight showed me a clear, proud profile, and fired the diamonds in a tiara which crowned
a head of waved grey hair.

There were billows of violet satin and lace to keep off the ground; and as the groom helped
the wearer to adjust them under her chinchilla coat, a girl sprang out of the carriage, her
white figure and rippling hair of daffodil gold in full moonlight.

I stood as a man might stand who sees a vision, hardly breathing. I made no sound, yet she
turned and saw me, sheltered as I was by the dappled trunk of a tall plane-tree. It was as
if I had called, and she had answered.

I knew she remembered me, and that she did not misunderstand my presence. There was no anger
in her face, only surprise, and a light which was hidden as she dropped her head, and passed
on through the gate.

I could have sung the song of the stars. She had not forgotten me since the afternoon. The
look in my eyes then, had arrested some thought of hers, and set me apart in her mind from
other men.

It was no stupid conceit which made me feel this, but a kind of exalted conviction.

When the gate was shut, I took off my hat and looked at the lighted windows. I could make her
care. I said to myself, “We’re meant for each other. And if that’s true, though all the mountains
in the world were piled up as barriers between us, I’d cross them.”

That was a vow. And through the remaining hours of the night I tried to plan how it would be
best to begin its fulfilment.

Men who have gone through a campaign as close friends, have few secrets from one another; and
I had none from Dick Waring. Nevertheless, I would now have kept one if it were possible; but
it was not. If I had not told him, he would have guessed, and then he might have thought that
he had the right to chaff me on losing my head.

It is only a happy lover who can bear to be chaffed, however, and a few words were enough to
show my tactful American where to set his feet on the slippery path.

He too had seen the girl; therefore he could not be surprised at my state of mind. But he regretted
it, and urged that the best I could do was to go away, before the thought of her had taken
too deep a hold upon me.

“You see,” he said, “you’re in a hopeless position; and it’s better to look facts in the face.
If you’d fallen in love with almost any other girl, except Princess Ena herself, you might
have hoped. But as it is, what have you to look forward to? You oughtn’t to have come to Biarritz.
In the circumstances, and with the King here, it was bravado. Friends of his, enemies of yours,
might even say it was bad taste, which is worse. And then, having come, you proceed to follow
the King’s motor-car; you fall head over ears in love with a girl in it, a friend of the bride-elect,
to whom your real name, if she’s not heard it already, could easily be made to seem anathema
maranatha. But that’s not all. You’re here under a name not your own. If you should by luck
or ill-luck get a chance to meet Lady Monica, you couldn’t be introduced to her as Christopher
Trevenna; it would be a false pretence; still less could you throw your real name in her face;
for between the King of Spain as a friend, and you as an acquaintance, the girl would be in
an uncomfortable position, to say the least. No, my dear fellow, you can’t meet this young
lady; and the only thing for your peace of mind, if you’ve really fallen in love, is to go away.”

I had no arguments with which to meet Dick’s. I listened in silence, but—I made no preparation
for departure. If there was nothing to be gained by staying, at least there was as little to
be gained by going; for I knew that I should not forget the girl. If I were struck blind, her
face would still live for my eyes, white and pure against a background of darkness.

We stayed on at Biarritz, but I behaved with circumspection, and made no further attempts to
put myself in the King’s Way, though he arrived at the Villa Mouriscot every morning from San
Sebastian. Dick approved my conduct and, pitying my depression, perhaps repented his hardness.
He found several Parisian friends at Biarritz, and when we had been there for three days, he
came back to the hotel from the Casino one night with an important air.

“Strange how one’s tempted to do things one knows one oughtn’t to do,” said he. “Now, it’s
unwise to tell you I’ve met a man who knows Lady Monica Vale, yet I’m doing it.”

“What did the man say?” I asked.

“A number of things—charming, of course. She’s not engaged, if that’s any consolation.”

“Oh, I knew that.”

“How?”

“By her eyes.”

“Apparently she observed yours also.”

“What? She’s spoken of—she—”

“The sister of my man is a friend of Lady Monica’s. She told the sister about the motor-car
adventure.”

“For goodness sake don’t force me to ask questions.”

“I won’t. I’ve a soft heart, which has often been my undoing. She said she’d seen the most
interesting man in the world. Don’t faint.”

“Don’t be an ass.”

