Many native birds of prey have also been the subjects of unremitting persecution. The eagles,
larger hawks, and ravens, have disappeared from the more cultivated districts. The haunts of
the mallard, the snipe, the redshank, and the bittern, have been drained equally with the summer
dwellings of the lapwing and the curlew. But these species still linger in some portion of
the British isles; whereas the large capercailzies, or wood grouse, formerly natives of the
pine forests of Ireland and Scotland, have been destroyed within the last fifty years. The
egret and the crane, which appear to have been formerly very common in Scotland, are now only
occasional visitants.

The bustard (Otis tarda,) observes Graves in his British Ornithology, "was formerly seen in
the downs and heaths of various parts of our island, in flocks of forty or fifty birds; whereas
it is now a circumstance of rare occurrence to meet with a single individual." Bewick also
remarks, "that they were formerly more common in this island than at present; they are now
found only in the open counties of the south and east, in the plains of Wiltshire, Dorsetshire,
and some parts of Yorkshire." In the few years that have elapsed since Bewick wrote, this bird
has entirely disappeared from Wiltshire and Dorsetshire.

These changes, we may observe, are derived from very imperfect memorials, and relate only to
the larger and more conspicuous animals inhabiting a small spot on the globe; but they cannot
fail to exalt our conception of the enormous revolutions which, in the course of several thousand
years, the whole human species must have effected.

The kangaroo and the emu are retreating rapidly before the progress of colonization in Australia;
and it scarcely admits of doubt, that the general cultivation of that country must lead to
the extirpation of both. The most striking example of the loss, even within the last two centuries,
of a remarkable species, is that of the dodo--a bird first seen by the Dutch when they landed
on the Isle of France, at that time uninhabited, immediately after the discovery of the passage
to the East Indies by the Cape of Good Hope. It was of a large size and singular form; its
wings short, like those of an ostrich, and wholly incapable of sustaining its heavy body even
for a short flight. In its general appearance it differed from the ostrich, cassowary, or any
known bird.

Many naturalists gave figures of the dodo after the commencement of the seventeenth century;
and there is a painting of it in the British Museum, which is said to have been taken from
a living individual. Beneath the painting is a leg, in a fine state of preservation, which
ornithologists are agreed cannot belong to any other known bird. In the museum at Oxford, also,
there is a foot and a head, in an imperfect state, but M. Cuvier doubts the identy of this
species with that of which the painting is preserved in London.

In spite of the most active search, during the last century, no information respecting the
dodo was obtained, and some authors have gone so far as to pretend that it never existed; but
amongst a great mass of satisfactory evidence in favour of the recent existence of this species,
we may mention that an assemblage of fossil bones were recently discovered, under a bed of
lava, in the Isle of France, and sent to the Paris museum by M. Desjardins. They almost all
belonged to a large living species of land-tortoise, called Testudu Indica, but amongst them
were the head, sternum, and humerus of the dodo. M. Cuvier showed me these valuable remains
in Paris, and assured me that they left no doubt in his mind that the huge bird was one of
the gallinaceous tribe.

Next to the direct agency of man, his indirect influence in multiplying the numbers of large
herbivorous quadrupeds of domesticated races, may be regarded as one of the most obviate causes
of the extermination of species. On this, and on several other grounds, the introduction of
the horse, ox, and other mammalia, into America, and their rapid propagation over that continent
within the last three centuries, is a fact of great importance in natural history. The extraordinary
herds of wild cattle and horses which overran the plains of South America, sprang from a very
few pairs first carried over by the Spaniards; and they prove that the wide geographical range
of large species in great continents does not necessarily imply that they have existed there
from remote periods. Humboldt observes, in his Travels, on the authority of Azara, that it
is believed there exist, in the Pampas of Buenos Ayres, twelve million cows and three million
horses, without comprising in this enumeration the cattle that have no acknowledged proprietor.
In the Llanos of Caraccas, the rich hateros, or proprietors of pastoral farms, are entirely
ignorant of the number of cattle they possess. The young are branded with a mark peculiar to
each herd, and some of the most wealthy owners mark as many as fourteen thousand a year. In
the northern plains, from the Orinoco to the lake of Maracaybo, M. Depons reckoned that one
million two hundred thousand oxen, one hundred and eighty thousand horses, and ninety thousand
mules, wandered at large. In some parts of the valley of the Mississippi, especially in the
country of the Osage Indians, wild horses are immensely numerous.

The establishment of black cattle in America dates from Columbus's second voyage to St. Domingo.
They there multiplied rapidly; and that island presently became a kind of nursery from which
these animals were successively transported to various parts of the continental coast, and
from thence into the interior. Notwithstanding these numerous exportations, in twenty-seven
years after the discovery of the island, herds of four thousand head, as we learn from Oviedo,
were not uncommon, and there were even some that amounted to eight thousand. In 1587, the number
of hides exported from St. Domingo alone, according to Acosta's report, was thirty-five thousand
four hundred and forty-four; and in the same year there were exported sixty-four thousand three
hundred and fifty from the ports of New Spain. This was in the sixty-fifth year after the taking
of Mexico, previous to which event the Spaniards, who came into that country, had not been
able to engage in any thing else than war. All our readers are aware that these animals are
now established throughout the American continent, from Canada to Paraguay.

The ass has thriven very generally in the New World; and we learn from Ulloa, that in Quito
they ran wild, and multiplied in amazing numbers, so as to become a nuisance. They grazed together
in herds, and, when attacked, defended themselves with their mouths. In succeeding years they
were introduced into other places where the Spaniards settled; and, in the space of half a
century, they were found established in the New World, from the latitude of 25 deg. north,
to the 40th deg. of south latitude. Sheep, also, and goats have multiplied enormously in the
New World, as have also the cat and the rat, which last, as we before stated, has been imported
unintentionally in ships. The dogs introduced by man, which have at different periods become
wild in America, hunted in packs like the wolf and the jackal, destroying not only hogs, but
the calves and foals of the wild cattle and horses.

Ulloa in his voyage, and Buffon on the authority of old writers, relate a fact which illustrates
very clearly the principle before explained by us, of the check which the increase of one animal
necessarily offers to that of another. The Spaniards had introduced goats into the island of
Juan Fernandez, where they became so prolific as to furnish the pirates who infested those
seas with provisions. In order to cut off this resource from the bucaneers, a number of dogs
were turned loose into the island; and so numerous did they become in their turn, that they
destroyed the goats in every accessible part, after which the number of the wild dogs again
decreased.

As an example of the rapidity with which a large tract may become peopled by the offspring
of a single pair of quadrupeds, we may mention that in the year 1773, thirteen rein-deer were
exported from Norway, only three of which reached Iceland. These were turned loose into the
mountains of Guldbringe Syssel, where they multiplied so greatly, in the course of forty years,
that it was not uncommon to meet with herds consisting of from forty to one hundred in various
districts.--Lyell's Geology, vol. ii.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONFESSION OF SERVENTIUS.

(Concluded from page 46.)

That evening, Father Dominick, our excellent priest, and my tutor in the classics, was closeted
for a length of time with my afflicted nominal parents; and two days afterwards taking me with
him to his monastery, he introduced me to the superior, as an orphan, the child of dear and
particular friends, confided by them to his charge for education upon their death-bed, and
with a distinct understanding that I was not bound to take upon myself monastic vows, the superior
allowed me to remain with him as a boarder. Serventius and Artemisia I never more beheld, and
every inquiry respecting them which I ventured to make of Father Dominick, was checked with
a strange, sad look, and an admonition to mention them no more. Seven long and peaceful years,
I spent in the monastery; and at the expiration of that period, was placed by my guardian in
the house of the celebrated Doctor Sanazio of Padua, as a student of medicine. Here, novel
and delightful studies, speculations, and scenes, opened upon my inquisitive, ardent mind,
and amused my enthusiastic imagination. Sanazio was regarded in learned Padua, as little less
than a demi-god; at certain hours he visited his patients, amongst whom might generally be
numbered three-fourths of the population of Padua; at certain hours, his own mansion was crowded
like the audience-hall of some mighty potentate, with supplicants for food and physic; three
evenings in the week were devoted by him to intense study in his own secret, solitary chamber;
and upon the alternate three, he received the visits of those who desired to consult him upon
abstruse points, only properly to be solved by an acquaintance with the occult sciences. In
brief, my honoured master, I soon discovered, was reckoned a very fair conjuror; he consulted
the stars, drew horoscopes, cast nativities, was learned in the expositions of dreams and omens,
undertook to give information respecting lost property, and matrimonial prospects; composed,
and dispensed charms and philtres, and proved himself, as I have hinted, a capital astrologer,
and something more. How Sanazio, who certainly was a very extraordinary man, acquired his multifarious
information, unless really by supernatural agency, I am at a loss to discover. Ignatius Druso,
my fellow student, was of opinion that he only dexterously availed himself in the evening of
the news which he had gathered from his patients in the morning; and that his familiars were
no more than a few active emissaries, for whose espionage and additional gleanings of town
news, it answered to him well, to pay. Ever partial to romance, I did not readily fall in with
Druso's sober view of this subject, and the longer I lived with Doctor Sanazio, the more occasion
had I to doubt the correctness of his opinion, because some things occurred of which my master
obtained immediate and accurate knowledge, whilst I am perfectly certain that no human tongue
had divulged them to him; take the following incident as an example:--Druso and myself were
accustomed, on those evenings which Sanazio spent in his sanctum, to visit patients in his
stead, to range over the town, to go to places of public amusement, or to conclude our meritorious
labours at a tavern. Being one night at this latter place, an old woman entered, and inquiring
whether I were Master Serventius, Doctor Sanazio's pupil, slipped a billet and a piece of gold
into my hand and desired me to follow her. I did so, without hesitation, and whilst behind
my guide, contrived to peruse the note by moon-light, which contained these words:

"I am sick,--of the heart's mortal sickness;--relieve it, and great shall be thy recompense."

Perplexed, yet amused, by what promised an adventure, I followed my ancient guide into a house
whose exterior was sufficiently humble; but, having ascended a steep flight of stairs, she
threw open the door of a chamber in which they terminated, and I found myself not only in a
richly-furnished apartment, but in the presence of a lady, young as immortal Hebe, and fair
as day. I saw at a glance that her ills were those of the mind only, and ere she had opened
her lips to detail them and engage me in her cause, I had vowed, heart and soul, to be her
champion. Having complimented me upon the high character she had heard of my prowess, understanding,
and principles, she informed me, with little circumlocution, that various unhappy family circumstances
had rendered it necessary for her to seek friends amongst strangers; that she was a novice
of the Convent of St. Anne, but on the eve of profession, and that having long been under an
engagement of marriage with a young gentleman of family, respecting whom her relations had
used her very deceitfully and cruelly, she had fixed upon me as a person little likely to be
subjected to suspicion on her account, to aid Signor Fernandez in the difficult and hazardous
enterprise, which she said must be a work of time and prudence, of carrying her off from the
convent. Having obtained my promise to this effect, she detailed her plans, and furnished me
with the means of continual communication with her lover and herself. I returned home, highly
elated at the trust reposed in me, at the importance which I had acquired in my own eyes, and
at the prospect of a handsome remuneration for my services, from the lovely object of them.
Sanazio, with lamp in hand, and arrayed in his night attire, to my great terror and surprise,
opened the door to me himself; it was very late, Druso had long since returned without me,
and in order to allay the storm which I saw gathering upon mine ancient master's brow, I slipped
the gold given to me by the confidante of beautiful Antonia, into his unreluctant hand.

"Unhappy youth!" exclaimed Sanazio, "beware of aiding the nun, lest thou bring upon her and
upon thyself the fate of Artemisia and Serventius."

These words so alarmed me that I nearly fainted; for how, in the name of all things holy and
gracious, came Sanazio to know in whose society I had passed the last hour, and what was the
subject of our conversation? His terrible allusion too, to those lost loved ones, of whose
untimely fate I was still so ignorant, strangely troubled my conscious breast. Let me be brief,
the hours of my ill-fated existence are fast wearing away, and I have yet more to relate. To
Ignatius Druso I was obliged to confide my secret, because his assistance, in the furtherance
of plans which were always requiring, from little immaterial circumstances, some slight alterations,
was found necessary; and it must here suffice those to know, who shall, after my destruction
do me the melancholy favour of perusing this retrospective record, that some months after Antonia
had taken the veil, I succeeded in restoring her to the arms of her lover, witnessed their
private nuptials, visited them in their new residence, a villa in a secluded spot far from
Padua, and received my promised recompense. "Young man! you've ruined yourself; and your fatal
destiny is sealed!" were the remarkable words of Sanazio, on the morning after the completion
of my enterprise, but long ere the elopement of the new devotee became publicly known. However,
he never reverted to the subject, not even upon his death-bed; and after the learned doctor's
decease, when I came into the whole of his practice, and no small portion of his fame, I was
easy, for the memory of that sacrilege had passed away.

Ignatius Druso, like myself, resided in Padua, but soon quitted the medical profession, disgusted,
I fancy, at finding that I had become a second Sanazio, whilst he commanded little or no attention:
still we were friends, nor did I suspect that the germs of envy and malice were sown in his
bosom, and that I had trusted him with one secret, or more, too much. "Serventius, my son,"
had said the venerable Sanazio to me upon his death-bed, "your ardent desire of knowledge and
discreet use of it, encourage me ere I quit this world, to entrust you with the grand arcanum
of our art; as yet, you know not the secret of my success, but take then this hint and improve
upon it. Can he repair a piece of mechanism, who is ignorant of its make, its parts, and how
they act upon, and affect one another? Behold this key; it is that of my laboratory, and may
it indeed open the door of knowledge to you."

After Sanazio's decease, curiosity quickly led me to his study: I was alone, and the shades
of evening were stealing over the earth: conceive then my utter dismay and superstitious horror
upon suddenly entering, what I could but suppose to be a charnel-house! Its effluvium was intolerable,
and well accounted for by (loathsome spectacle!) a disorderly collection of human fragments
in various stages of preservation and decay! A dozen grisly skeletons grinned upon me from
pedestals round the room, and in the centre of it, the half dissected body of a man, stretched
upon a large lava slab, supported by tressels, was more horrible and odious than all. I now
comprehended the full meaning of Sanazio's dying words and secret; but received at the same
time, a shock which to this day I have not recovered; I found myself compelled to make Druso
my confidant in this matter, and my companion in some of my first attempts at following the
hideous occupation recommended by my deceased friend. By degrees I grew accustomed to the horrors
of the room and of my employment. Druso, who found himself better engaged in courting the living
than in cutting up the dead, was no longer necessary to me in the prosecution of my hateful
studies, and kept aloof, but I soon discovered the value of them, in my increase of knowledge,
employment, and reputation. At last an epidemic raged in Padua, proving very fatal; Ignatius,
alarmed for the safety of his Phaedera, who was attacked, applied to me, and I cured her. Some
time afterwards, the ungrateful wretch rushed into my laboratory, claiming the body upon which
I was operating, as that of a young man, cousin to Phaedera, which had miraculously disappeared
just previous to the day intended for its interment. The features of the poor wretch were too
much disfigured to render possible his recognition by them, but Druso swore to its being the
body of Marcus, from a scar on the left leg, which had been wounded severely by a quoit. Of
course I refused to resign, that, for which I had paid a handsome price, and to reveal the
names of those from whom I purchased it. So Druso dragged me before the Supreme Council, impeached
me of sacrilege in the affair of the nun, of theft, and of violating the sanctity of the tomb,
of barbarously mutilating the dead, and of applying their lacerated remains to the unholy purposes
of sorcery! and on these counts have I been indicted, found guilty, and sentenced to be burnt
as a sacrilegious heretic, an unnatural robber, and a formidable wizard! Antonia, the mother
of seven children, is to be--like the unchaste vestal--immured! Oh Heaven! whilst Druso the
Informer, receiving at the same time the portion of a prince for his venal treachery, will
celebrate his union with Phaedera, amidst the shrieks and groans of his expiring victims!

I cannot now proceed: ere I am bound to the fatal stake, methinks I shall die of shame, grief,
and terror. And did the friends of my infancy, my parents, suffer as I shall suffer? Then,
welcome death! welcome, hated dawn of my last day, for innocence and truth are banished from
the earth! Hark! the key turning in the lock of my cell! Hark! those boding and pitying voices
without! Father Dominick! Servilius! Andrea! kindest! best! --I die--but I die innocent, the
victim only-----Hah! to burn--burn--burn! Gracious Heaven! pardon the strife of nature! My
brain whirls!--my eyes cloud!--my black, dry, swollen lips,--throat--bosom--heart--O mother
of God!--O! Saviour--Redeemer--pardon, pardon!--Father of Mercies,---receive me!

Great Marlow, Bucks.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCENES FROM THE (OLD) FRENCH REVOLUTION.

(From the "Quarterly" Review of Madame Junot's Memoirs.)

About the beginning of the revolution, a working-man, by name Thirion, had established himself
in a little stall (in Paris,) where he carried on his business as a mender of carpets. He called
one morning to ask M. Permon's (a Royalist[1]) custom, but was civilly told that the family
had long employed a tradesman of his class, and could not change for a stranger: the man took
the refusal so insolently, that he was at last turned out of doors, vowing revenge. M. Permon,
the ports being still open, makes a run over to London to place some money in our funds. Meantime
"the Sections are organized," and Thirion becomes "Secretaire, Greffier, President, je ne scai
quoi, de la notre." The morning after his return to Paris, M. Permon had just risen, when footsteps
were heard loud on the staircase, and in burst Citizen Thirion, two other patriots of the Sectional
Committee, and the carpetman's shopboy. (Madame Junot's Narrative commences here.)

"My father was shaving himself. Naturally quick tempered, his impatience was extreme when he
recognised the individual, and he was imprudent enough to make a menacing gesture the moment
they broke into his dressing-room. 'I am here to see the law enforced,' cries Thirion, on seeing
my father advance with the razor in his hand. 'Well, what law is it that chooses so worthy
an organ?'--'I am here to learn your age, your pursuits, and to interrogate you as to your
journey to Coblentz.' My father, who had from the first word felt the most violent disposition
to toss the man down stairs, shivered with rage; but, at last, he composed himself, wiped his
chin, laid down his razor, and, crossing his arms, placed himself full in front of Thirion:
then, measuring him from the utmost height of his tall and elegant person, he said, 'You wish
to know my age?'--'Yes, such are my orders.'--Where is the order?' said my father, extending
his hand. 'It is enough for you to know that I am sent hither by the committee of my section:
my orders are sufficiently proved by my presence.'--Ah! you think so; I am of a different opinion.
Your presence here is nothing but an insult, unless you have a judiciary order to justify it;
show it me, and I shall forget the name of the man, to see only the public functionary.' Thirion
raised his voice as my father lowered his--'What is your age?--What was the object of your
going to Coblentz?'----My father seizes a large bamboo, and makes it whistle over Thirion's
head--at that moment my mother rushes in, and succeeds in dragging him into another room, and
restoring him to something like calmness. I remember she placed me in his arms, whispering
to me to entreat him to think of me. Meantime, Thirion had drawn up his procès verbal, and
withdrawn:--he left me weeping without knowing why I wept, but I saw that my mother and my
sister were in tears too. My father sat pale, trembling with anger,--everything about us had
a desolate aspect."

The family escape from Paris--and it was time. Violent alternations of fear, anger, sorrow,
terror, and disgust, with frequent disguises, flights, and all sorts of changes of residence,
at length wear out the health and spirits of M. Permon--a man, apparently, who united dull
enough intellect with all the vivacity of a Frenchman's mere temperament; and he dies in obscurity
long before anything like order is re-established. We need not dwell on the particular fortunes
of a not very interesting set of people; but may quote one or two more specimens of the sort
of scenes which fill the greater part of the first of these volumes. Our authoress and her
sister are at one time separated from their parents, and placed in an obscure pension in the
Faubourg (no longer St.) Antoine. Their brother, a very young man, has also remained in Paris,
and frequently visits them in their retreat.

"We could not but observe, that for some days he had been very melancholy, and that he was
getting more and more so. We asked the reason, and he told us at last that the section had
denounced my father in a very alarming style. We fell a-crying, my sister and I. Albert consoled
us as well as he could, but it was easy to see that the denunciation was not all--that some
immediate danger fixed his fears. We knew afterwards, in effect, that a report had been spread
of the arrest of my parents at Limoges--happily a false one. The horizon meanwhile was taking
a bloody tint. Judge of my brother's anxiety! he came every day in a cabriolet, which my father
had had built just before these late events; it was an elegant one, very lofty, of the kind
called wiski. Already he had been all but insulted by the populace in driving through the faubourg;
but liveries had not yet altogether disappeared, and nothing would persuade him to listen to
our remonstrances, and make the domestic put off his. Thus it was on the 31st of August, when
he came to see us as usual."

"There was about the boarding-house a man charged with all the rough work, by name Jaquemart,
a fellow that could do everything--but the most atrocious of countenances. 'The sight of that
man makes me sick,' said Albert; 'I am sure he will end in something tragic.'"

"One day, shortly after we went to the pension, Jaquemart was bringing in a load of wood, when
my brother drove at the speed of his horse into the entrance. He saw the man had a burden that
would hardly allow him to get out of the way in time--cried 'Gare!'--perceived that his efforts
were in vain--and pulled back his horse so sharply as to run much risk of wounding the animal,
and, indeed, of being thrown out himself, owing to the extraordinary elevation of the wiski.
Jaquemart, however, escaped by this means with a scratch on his leg; his eyes were good, he
saw what Albert had done to master his horse, and vowed gratitude."

"The 31st of August the man had nothing to do about the house, yet he kept lounging at the
gate, or in the court, all day long. It was late ere Albert came--he had been waiting for him,
and whispered, as he alighted, 'Stay here to-night to take care of your sisters--don't go home.'
Albert looked at him with astonishment; he had, indeed, perceived symptoms of some commotion,
but fancied, as most of Paris did, that it would be directed against the Temple. 'What is your
meaning?' said he. 'I entreat you to stay here--you will be near your sisters; and if there
be need for another hand, mine shall not be far off--very well!--we shall be there.' Albert
pressed him with questions, but could extract nothing; and after giving the man some money,
persisted; in returning home as usual."

"All know the frightful story of the day after this. Albert's anxiety for us makes him brave
every danger, and he comes to us again. The first person he sees at our door is Jaquemart,
in the costume of the most atrocious of bandits; our ladies had not dared to bid him go away,
but his appearance made them tremble. 'I did not desire you to come hither, but to stay here,'
he said; 'why have I not been obeyed?' 'Why do you speak so--was this house particularly menaced?'
'I know nothing of that--at such a moment one should fear everything.'"

"We heard groans, weeping, all Paris had not been at the massacre. It was late. They pressed
Albert to stay, but he would not. He promised, however, to come back next morning.----That
day he was obliged to stay at home till about three o'clock, arranging and burning papers.
He then came out to visit us, and found himself in the midst of crowds of men, drunken and
bloody; many were naked to the waist, their breasts covered with blood. They carried fragments
of clothing on their pikes and sabres--their faces were inflamed, their eyes haggard, the whole
scene hideous. These groups became more and more frequent and numerous as he advanced. In mortal
anxiety for us, he determined to push through everything, and, urging his horse to its speed,
reached at length the front of the Hôtel Beaumarchais. There he was stopped by an immense crowd--always
the same figures naked and bloodstained, but here their looks were those of enraged fiends.
They shout, they scream, they sing, they dance--the saturnalia of hell. On seeing Albert's
cabriolet, they redoubled their cries--'An aristocrat! give it him, give it him!' In a moment
the cabriolet is surrounded, and from the midst of the crowd an object rises and moves towards
him. His agitation perplexes his view--he perceives long fair tresses dabbled with blood--a
countenance beautiful even yet. It approaches--it is thrust upon his face; he recognises the
features--it is the head of Madame de Lamballe!"

"The servant whips the horse with all the strength of his arm. The generous animal, with the
instinctive horror of his race for dead bodies, springs with redoubled speed from the spectacle
of horror. The frightful trophy, and the cannibals that bore it, had been overturned in the
mud--screams and imprecations pursued Albert, stretched senseless at the bottom of the cabriolet.
The servant had kept the reins, and whipped the more fiercely, because he could perceive, from
the motion of the carriage, that some one had got up behind it, and hoped that the rapidity
of its progress would shake him off."

"In a few minutes Albert reached our door--judge of our alarm!--pale, still quite senseless,
not breathing. The moment the cabriolet stopped, the man behind jumped down, took my brother
in his arms, as if he had been a child, and carried him into the house. It was Jaquemart. 'The
monsters,' said he, 'the monsters! the poor young man, they have killed him too.' What could
Jaquemart have been doing in such a garb, and among such a troop o' ruffians?"

    [1] And father of Madame Junot.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Paris correspondent of the Court Journal gives the following incident at the King's Ball,
about a fortnight since. I happened to be near his majesty when he addressed himself to an
Englishman, wearing the Cross of Three Days. "Where did you signalize yourself, sir?" inquired
the monarch. "At the Tuilleries, sire," was the answer. "C'est aux braves de Juillet que je
dois ma couronne," said his majesty. The gentleman thus honoured was M. Bennis,[1] in whose
literary establishment the king seems to take much interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

GUTTING THE FISH.

One evening a red-headed Connaught swell, of no small aristocratic pretensions in his own eyes,
sent his servant, whom he had just imported from the long-horned kingdom, in all the rough
majesty of a creature fresh from the "wilds," to purchase a hundred of oysters on the City-quay.
Paddy staid so long away, that Squire Trigger got quite impatient and unhappy lest his "body
man" might have slipt into the Liffey; however, to his infinite relief, Paddy soon made his
appearance, puffing and blowing like a disabled bellows, but carrying his load seemingly in
great triumph. "Well, Pat," cried the master, "what the devil kept you so long?" "Long! a thin,
may be it's what you'd have me to come home with half my arrant?" says Pat. "Half the oysters?"
says the master. "No; but too much of the fish." says Pat. "What fish?" says he. "The oysters,
to be sure," says Pat. "What do you mean, blockhead?" says he. "I mean," says Pat, "that there
was no use with loading myself with more nor was useful." "Will you explain yourself?" says
he. "I will," says Pat laying down his load. "Well then, you see, plaise your Honour, as I
was coming home along the quay, mighty peaceable, who should I meet but Shammus Maginnis; 'Good
morrow, Shamien,' sis I; 'Good morrow kindly, Paudeen,' sis he; 'What is it you have in the
sack?' sis he; 'A Cwt. of oysters,' sis I; 'Let us look at them,' says he; 'I will, and welcome,'
sis I; 'Orah! thunder and pratees!' sis he, openin the sack an examinin them; 'who sowld you
these?' 'One Tom Kinahan that keeps a small ship there below,' sis I; 'Musha then, bad luck
to that same Tom that sowld the likes to you,' sis he; 'Arrah, why, avic?' sis I; 'To make
a Bolshour ov you an give thim to you without gutting thim,' sis he; 'An arn't they gutted,
Jim, aroon,' sis I; 'Oh! bad luck to the one o' thim,' sis he; 'Musha then,' sis I, 'what the
dhoul will I do at all at all, fur the master will be mad;' 'Do!' sis he, 'why I'd rather do
the thing for you mysel nor you should lose your place,' sis he; so wid that he begins to gut
them wid his knife, nate and clain, an afeereed ov dirtying the flags, begor, he swallowed
the guts himself from beginnin to ind, tal he had thim as dacent as you see thim here"--dashing
down at his master's feet his bag of oyster shells, to the no small amazement of the Connaught
worthy, as you may suppose.--Dublin Comet.

    [1] The agent for the MIRROR, in Paris.--ED.

       *       *       *       *       *