"Dat night all de slaves had a meetin' down in de hollow. Ole Uncle Mack, he gits up and says:
'One time over in Virginny dere was two ole niggers, Uncle Bob and Uncle Tom. Dey was mad at
one 'nuther and one day dey decided to have a dinner and bury de hatchet. So day sat down,
and when Uncle Bob wasn't lookin' Uncle Tom put some poison in Uncle Bob's food, but he saw
it and when Uncle Tom wasn't lookin', Uncle Bob he turned de tray roun' on Uncle Tom, and he
gits de poison food.' Uncle Mack, he says: 'Dat's what we slaves is gwine do, jus' turn de
tray roun' and pray for de North to win.'

"After de war dere was a lot of excitement 'mong de niggers. Dey was rejoicin' and singin'.
Some of 'em looked puzzled, sorter skeered like. But dey danced and had a big jamboree.

"Lots of 'em stayed and worked on de halves. Others hired out. I went to work in a grocery
store and he paid me $1.50 a week. I give my mother de dollar and keeped de half. Den I got
married and farmed for awhile. Den I come to Fort Worth and I been yere since.

420198

     SARAH ALLEN was born a slave of John and Sally Goodren, in the Blue
     Ridge Mountains of Virginia. Before the Civil War, her owners came
     to Texas, locating near a small town then called Freedom. She lives
     at 3322 Frutas St., El Paso, Texas.

"I was birthed in time of bondage. You know, some people are ashamed to tell it, but I thank
God I was 'llowed to see them times as well as now. It's a pretty hard story, how cruel some
of the marsters was, but I had the luck to be with good white people. But some I knew were
put on the block and sold. I 'member when they'd come to John Goodren's place to buy, but he
not sell any. They'd have certain days when they'd sell off the block and they took chillen
'way from mothers, screamin' for dere chillen.

"I was birthed in ole Virginia in de Blue Ridge Mountains. When de white people come to Texas,
de cullud people come with them. Dat's been a long time.

"My maw was named Charlotte, my paw Parks Adams. He's a white man. I guess I'm about eighty
some years ole.

"You know, in slavery times when dey had bad marsters dey'd run away, but we didn' want to.
My missus would see her people had something good to eat every Sunday mornin'. You had to mind
your missus and marster and you be treated well. I think I was about twelve when dey freed
us and we stayed with marster 'bout a year, then went to John Ecols' place and rented some
lan'. We made two bales of cotton and it was the first money we ever saw.

"Back when we lived with Marster Goodren we had big candy pullin's. Invite everybody and play.
We had good times. De worst thing, we didn' never have no schoolin' till after I married. Den
I went to school two weeks. My husban' was teacher. He never was a slave. His father bought
freedom through a blacksmith shop, some way.

"I had a nice weddin'. My dress was white and trimmed with blue ribbon. My second day dress
was white with red dots. I had a beautiful veil and a wreath and 'bout two, three waiters for
table dat day.

"My mother was nearly white. Brighter than me. We lef' my father in Virginia. I was jus' as
white as de chillen I played with. I used to be plum bright, but here lately I'm gettin' awful
dark.

"My husban' was of a mixture, like you call bright ginger-cake color. I don' know where he
got his learnin'. I feel so bad since he's gone to Glory.

"Now I'm ole, de Lord has taken care of me. He put that spirit in people to look after ole
folks and now my chillen look after me. I've two sons, one name James Allen, one R.M. Both
live in El Paso.

"After we go to sleep, de people will know these things, 'cause if freedom hadn' come, it would
have been so miserable.

420149

     ANDY ANDERSON, 94, was born a slave of Jack Haley, who owned a
     plantation in Williamson Co., Texas. During the Civil War, Andy was
     sold to W.T. House, of Blanco County, who in less than a year sold
     Andy to his brother, John House. Andy now lives with his third wife
     and eight of his children at 301 Armour St., Fort Worth, Texas.

"My name am Andy J. Anderson, and I's born on Massa Jack Haley's plantation in Williamson County,
Texas, and Massa Haley owned my folks and 'bout twelve other families of niggers. I's born
in 1843 and that makes me 94 year old and 18 year when de war starts. I's had 'speriences durin'
dat time.

"Massa Haley am kind to his cullud folks, and him am kind to everybody, and all de folks likes
him. De other white folks called we'uns de petted niggers. There am 'bout 30 old and young
niggers and 'bout 20 piccaninnies too little to work, and de nuss cares for dem while dey mammies
works.

"I's gwine 'splain how it am managed on Massa Haley's plantation. It am sort of like de small
town, 'cause everything we uses am made right there. There am de shoemaker and he is de tanner
and make de leather from de hides. Den massa has 'bout a thousand sheep and he gits de wool,
and de niggers cards and spins and weaves it, and dat makes all de clothes. Den massa have
cattle and sich purvide de milk and de butter and beef meat for eatin'. Den massa have de turkeys
and chickens and de hawgs and de bees. With all that, us never was hongry.

"De plantation am planted in cotton, mostly, with de corn and de wheat a little, 'cause massa
don't need much of dem. He never sell nothin' but de cotton.

"De livin' for de cullud folks am good. De quarters am built from logs like deys all in dem
days. De floor am de dirt but we has de benches and what is made on de place. And we has de
big fireplace for to cook and we has plenty to cook in dat fireplace, 'cause massa allus 'lows
plenty good rations, but he watch close for de wastin' of de food.

"De war breaks and dat make de big change on de massas place. He jines de army and hires a
man call' Delbridge for overseer. After dat, de hell start to pop, 'cause de first thing Delbridge
do is cut de rations. He weighs out de meat, three pound for de week, and he measure a peck
of meal. And 'twarn't enough. He half starve us niggers and he want mo' work and he start de
whippin's. I guesses he starts to edumacate 'em. I guess dat Delbridge go to hell when he died,
but I don't see how de debbil could stand him.

"We'uns am not use' to sich and some runs off. When dey am cotched there am a whippin' at de
stake. But dat Delbridge, he sold me to Massa House, in Blanco County. I's sho' glad when I's
sold, but it am short gladness, 'cause here am another man what hell am too good for. He gives
me de whippin' and de scars am still on my arms and my back, too. I'll carry dem to my grave.
He sends me for firewood and when I gits it loaded, de wheel hits a stump and de team jerks
and dat breaks de whippletree. So he ties me to de stake and every half hour for four hours,
dey lays ta lashes on my back. For de first couple hours de pain am awful. I's never forgot
it. Den I's stood so much pain I not feel so much and when dey takes me loose, I's jus' 'bout
half dead. I lays in de bunk two days, gittin' over dat whippin', gittin' over it in de body
but not de heart. No, suh, I has dat in de heart till dis day.

"After dat whippin' I doesn't have de heart to work for de massa. If I seed de cattle in de
cornfield, I turns de back, 'stead of chasin' 'em out. I guess dat de reason de massa sold
me to his brother, Massa John. And he am good like my first massa, he never whipped me.

